<<<1>>>

<<<2>>>
Sc. ON cla ph NE gia Senay ic li age ein ip i ia lnc i Te 
<<<3>>>

<<<4>>>
The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1951
<<<5>>>
Untrep States Nationa Museum, Unoerr DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INsTITUTION, Washington, D. C., October 15, 1951.

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1951.

Very respectfully, Remineron Ketioae, Director, U. S. National Museum. Dr. A. WETMORE, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
<<<6>>>
Annual Report of

the Director

United States National Museum 
<<<7>>>
Contents

Page

EN TROD UCTION: (ici hiet “ae ih Val etc oma Sie RT et ae he cee aaa a a 1 Funds allotted: . 2. 2. 8 PublicatiOns! orc cule A ok aa ee eae oe 8 PUD TAT Y's, Sey ce, Wei alies wac hone eimai eltel ae ec aeaanenaceta cane sae 9 DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY . 3 ....:+-....4-:10 IDMPARAOINED OM AOOLOE > 66055 ob oboe oh 19 Dino Cin IOWA? 5 55 6.0 0 0 6 bo oo oe 6 32 ID NswvaoeaY Opal (GaOUOY~?5 5 6566 6 6 Do oe 38 DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES ....... 48 IDinoAMaaINeD Oya JBGiSuKOMAY 45) 4g oo 6 oo ao lo a6 5 6 6 Oc 54. TST OR VAC CHSSTONGS: se ahi sretnae sr a) se), SUITS SU BRce Sty ed) Ve eee tee 57 List oF PUBLICATIONS BY THE STAFF ............ 105

List or Museum PUBLICATIONS ......+.2.+s-+-see-e 111 IV 
<<<8>>>
Display, arranged jointly with National Collection of Fine Arts, of items from the recently acquired AdamsClement collection of memorabilia of the Presidential families of John Adams and John Quincy Adams. In the portrait, by an unknown artist, Louisa Catherine Johnson Adams, wife of John Quincy, holds the harp and music book here shown. The book is open to a popular song of the early nineteenth century, the first lines of which are: “Oh say not woman’s love is bought with yain and empty treasure, Oh say not woman’s heart is caught by every idle pleasure. . . .” 
<<<9>>>

<<<10>>>
Introduction

It is over 70 years since the United States National Museum finally emerged from its status as a “national cabinet of curiosities,” presided over by the assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and achieved the dignity of a building of its own—the present Arts and Industries Building, now itself a relic of an affectionately remembered past and fast achieving the status of a “curiosity.”

In the ensuing years the organization of the National Museum has matured. : Its activities have assumed a pattern grown familiar through repetition. This warrants turning back for a moment to review the purpose of its founding, before looking briefly into the question of its duty, today, to those who support it and give it life— the people of the United States.

For the infant museum, G. Brown Goode, then its assistant director, farsightedly set the goal of serving the Nation in three principal ways: As a museum of record—in which was to be housed the national treasures, scientific and historic; as a museum of research—in which a staff of specialists and scientists were to study, classify, and document these materials; and as a museum of education—to which the public could turn for self-improvement and study.

Through the years, thanks to the devoted service of its staff and the loyal interest of its many friends in this country and abroad, the Museum has persistently striven toward this goal, with varying success as the vicissitudes of the times have permitted.

Changing conditions, however, have shifted somewhat the emphasis on the services embraced by this goal, so that today the Museum stands before the general public primarily as a museum of exhibition and as a museum of reference. It will, perhaps, be worth while to essay a further explanation of these terms, so that the basic function of the Museum and its place in our national life will be clarified.

Sightseeing visitors, of whom there were more than 2,600,000 this year, naturally think of the Museum in terms of the objects displayed in the exhibition halls. These exhibits do play a unique role in the visual education of the public by bringing to its attention treasures of national history, the natural resources of the world in which we live, and the achievements of mankind in material culture, science, indus-
<<<11>>>
try, and the arts, both past and present. Yet these objects number less than one percent of the total of items in the national collections. Nor are they, for all their extrinsic interest and worth, always the most valuable part of the collections.

As the tabulation on the opposite page demonstrates, it is in the vast reference collections that the real wealth of the Museum lies. ‘Their value resides not alone, however, in their impressive numbers (some are among the greatest in the world), although the agencies and individuals using them are grateful to find gathered under one roof most of the materials they need. Nor does it reside alone in their cataloging and orderly arrangement, since many thousand specimens await this essential processing for want of the personnel and space necessary to accomplish it. Nor, indeed, does it reside alone in the factual documentation that accompanies them, for so rapidly have the collections grown, and continue to grow, that often only a bare minimum of this can be undertaken.

Curatorial Duties

The value of the collections, in fact, derives from all these attributes together as they are brought into focus by the skill and knowledge of the scientific staff. For it is the staff members, in discharging their curatorial duties of collecting, documenting, preserving, and studying the materials under their care, who make a useful, living organization out of what otherwise would be a sterile warehouse of inanimate things. In anthropology, natural history, arts and industries, or national history alike, by documenting and preserving the collections the staff assures the investigator, today and tomorrow, of a complete range of authenticated specimens for inspection, for comparison, and for further study. This is essential. Later improvements in methods of evaluation and interpretation will make it possible to obtain from the specimens additional data that are not now obtainable, and that will be lost forever if the specimens are not preserved. By its study the staff has produced, and continues to produce, a vast amount of essential information about the collections, although much more is still locked up in the specimens for want of further critical study—for want of further research.

The release of these facts in order to increase the usefulness of the collections placed in their charge is far too great a task for the staff to accomplish alone, since much of their attention must necessarily be devoted to the physical care of the collections, to preparing and exhibiting them, and to answering requests for assistance, and for information about them—requests that come from other Government 
<<<12>>>
Department of eed TP MR! Seba es ae 760, 847 Archeology. .... Bn Cae ee be 523, 064 thm OlOSy sae eras y sixes 1s vustnsde ah xe 186, 722 Ceramics ... Be era eat iG 8, 954 Musical ements oT Hie tan ihe 2, 426 Period art andtextiles. .... 2, 712 Physical Anthropology ...... 36, 969 Department of Botany. ..... Be tls PR aaa dolal Cut es 2, 443, 159 iPhanerogamssie. ee). sel eee ea OS. 216 CGTASSCSMIAME Tc) flan Dele,’ eat RoMeetne se 329, 848 CEN SHEER ears is) eee ant eee : 194, 968 Cryptogams ... Be cate 340, 127 Department of Sneaaaeias inl Industries. .... 166, 970 Crafts and Industries. ... . vat 61, 911 FFM CAMEO TING! eae, Metco) eee lee 32, 496 Graphicr Arts) 2. eretees 49, 690 Medicine and Public Healtht: ery ies 22, 873 Wepartment of ‘Geology .°. 3.) 4 ye 6) ne if tie | 3},665,,.120 Mineralogy and Petrology... . . 261, 160 Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany (cues wo cassie . . 38, 367, 340 Vertebrate Paleontology ...... 36, 620 Department of History) 650. (1.45 2s. anes 638, 415 CivalHistory cys ley gies Gey yerpsies 37, 106 MiahitarysHustOGyar cs ees certs dsl 28, 691 Navelenbli storys wWiacresncmaies tit) nu yaks 4, 247 Numismatics seuss) es oes 61, 810 Philately “2712 hast Caan gaLNd USE, Lh, 506, 561 Department of Zoology MALIA EDS non. ERAS O42 ST Se Mammals... 5 eatin ieceiy) Sk ges ee 260, 382 SITS evesee ts eae etal Mel tree ete 462, 418 IEP les iee a eta te ae art, SY eka Fs 137, 936 TOES ale epditey ee mssuilesin ar igen seems mettre aened eae Ofte: 1 1) Insects; -'. J) Se 68. SAO STA S37, 376 Marine avenec brates Sora eaves poner tacos BAAN ALD, MoOlUSKS Henrich eiiay evita Aa coo OOe elminGhssy es iar te Pee es 44, 8394 BICHINOGERIMS uae knee faa ie eel, otis 183, 107

Totat Musrum CoLuEcTIONS. ....... 32, 617, 298 
<<<13>>>
agencies as well as from the public. (The tabulation on the opposite page indicates the extent of some of these routine duties.) Indeed, so great is this task of getting the facts that even with the full cooperation of scientists and museums throughout the world the progress is discouragingly slow. For this reason the curators are glad to assist their research associates and collaborators, and the visiting scientists from other institutions and universities, who come to work in the collections on special problems. By thus extending the scope of their research activities the staff keeps the Museum in step with the everadvancing stream of scientific knowledge.

Useful Knowledge

To what end beyond that of satisfying curiosity is all this research undertaken, and all this knowledge compiled? The proposition that knowledge, of itself, is a good thing, and that therefore the seeking of it is worth while, is a fundamental part of the philosophy of democracy. Today we affirm the truth of this proposition, yet, since we must live in a workaday world, we tend to value most highly that knowledge which is most practical. Scientists and specialists the world over find museum research essential and rely heavily on the National Museum for the kinds of information it is uniquely fitted to develop. The knowledge arising from this research serves as a basis for other work with immediate practical applications. And even when such an application cannot be specifically foreseen, the factual nature of the results of research is such that a future value can reasonably be anticipated.

Consider for a moment in more particular detail this fact-finding research in science and culture as applied to the activities of the Museum staff.

Anthropological research is rather complex and varied. It involves not only the hereditary and physical characteristics of man but also the objects acquired or fashioned by him either for his livelihood or his pleasure. It involves the occupation sites, the tools, or artifacts, and the physical remains of man from the earliest dawn of his prehistoric existence.

By a study of these materials archeological research delves into the more or less obscure phases of human prehistory; ethnological research determines the significance of material culture, of primitive arts, and of ceremonial and cult objects of the tribes and peoples of the world; and research in physical anthropology extends both in time and space our knowledge of the physical characteristics of prehistoric and living peoples. 
<<<14>>>
Distributed Submitted Identifled Received in oo ~SCent for §=s for idenon

Department accessions Exchanges Gifts Transfers study tification request Anthropology . . 15,396 1,190 314 0 By OPO) on de Sigel Botany. ei « 38, 603 27, 483 406 0 12,906 14,717 12,465

Engineering and ; Industries. . . 3, 073 389 2, 268 0 155 1,198 1,178

Cenlocnimedianiee 16,723 5,292 2,005 81 2,576 10,105 9, 637 IBINSWOAV ON a a oo 3, 716 5 0 3 93 8,417 8, 417 Zoology. .. . . 225,638 18,300 10,078 287 40,925 41,022 37, 377

Toran. . 303,149 52,659 15,071 371 57,189 77,586 71,198

In this manner the archeologist through exploration locates sites of prior human occupation, excavates them, and recovers and identifies his findings. The ethnologist traces from the associated handicrafts the measure of man’s success in obtaining a livelihood from his surroundings. And the physical anthropologist demonstrates from cranial and skeletal remains the physical type represented. From findings such as these anthropologists have pieced together our surprisingly extensive picture of the life of early man.

In the biological sciences research provides the data essential to a further study of the relationships of the various forms of life to each other and to their environment, their evolutionary trends, their fundamental properties, and their economic significance.

Thus the zoological specialists strive to determine the diagnostic characteristics of all forms of animal life, including not only those implicated as reservoirs or vectors of disease, as parasitic or commensal, or as destroyers of foodstuffs, but also those whose interrelationships are not yet well enough known to be classified as either harmful or beneficial. Likewise, studies conducted by the botanists have as their purpose the determination and evaluation of the speciation, relationships, and geographic distribution of the many and diverse types of plants.

Investigations in paleontology and geology relate to periods far older than recorded history. The paleontologist furnishes data regarding the vertebrate, invertebrate, and plant life once present on the earth, as well as some indication of the conditions under which they lived, supplying among other things a necessary background for the study of organisms living today. The geologist is concerned with research involving the identification of rocks and minerals, their structure and composition, their geographic and stratigraphic occurrence, and the underlying physicochemical principles of mineral genesis—essential information to prospectors and to construction and 
<<<15>>>
mining engineers, to namea few. The geologist is also concerned with the nature and identification of crystals, gems, and meteorites, and with such phenomena of physical geology as volcanoes and caves.

Research in engineering and industries, including technology and the graphic arts, presents rather different problems than does research in the natural sciences and anthropology. In engineering and industries the concern is with selecting, documenting, preserving, and exhibiting those machines, devices, tools, and products that illustrate significantly the nation’s material progress. Consequently, the research involves an analysis of the many fields covered, so that items may be wisely selected for inclusion in the collections, and also the assembling of factual and historical information on the collections themselves, so that the items may be properly described, evaluated, and organized—to the end that a chronological record of the nation’s industrial progress can be maintained.

A similar requirement prevails with regard to research in history, which is principally concerned with mementos of national significance in our civil, military, and naval history, and with stamps and coins— mementos, for example, such as the original Star Spangled Banner that floated over Fort McHenry when Francis Scott Key wrote the national anthem, George Washington’s field kit, personal possessions of the Presidents of the United States, or the historic collection of dresses worn by First Ladies of the White House. Research here leads to the accurate documentation of these treasures and to a fuller understanding of the development of uniforms and accouterments, flags, and defense equipment, and of trends in coinage and in the printing of stamps.

Reference Function

Thus the staff, by means of research on specimens wisely collected and carefully preserved, has created an orderly treasure house of reference materials to serve the public much as a reference library does, except that the Museum contains not books about things but the things themselves—documented and ready for use.

From this brief survey it is seen that two of the services originally undertaken by the National Museum—preserving materials for record and performing research in order to classify and document them— have tended to merge into the more inclusive function of reference, of which they are important but subordinate parts. It is also seen that a considerable public benefit derives from this reference service rendered by the Museum, a benefit alike to the inquiring layman and to the researchers and scientists who use or work in the collections— workers who come from every State and foreign country, from institutions private and public, great and small. 
<<<16>>>
ANNUAL REPORT—INTRODUCTION é

It is equally clear that the facts developed through research, and essential to an understanding of the materials in the collections, contribute to the wise selection and effective display of significant items. Thus, this examination of the reference function and its supporting research and field work leads full circle back to the second major function of the National Museum—exhibition.

Exhibition Function

Today more than ever the citizen needs the service the Museum can render through its exhibits. For through effective exhibits it supplements the citizen’s personal experience and adds measurably to his understanding of the world he inhabits. Through its exhibits the Museum can clarify the facts of nature and science, can point up the significance of trends in technology, can explain developments in industrial techniques, can furnish with authentic mementos the remembrance of notable moments in national history, can give to the problems of living today a historical perspective in the mirrored hallway of other civilizations—present and past.

The Museum recognizes this responsibility to the public for making their visits rewarding and stimulating. It has long-range plans for modernizing and rehousing its exhibits, many of which—adequate in their day, a generation and more ago—have become badly outdated. This work goes forward as times permit. It is now in abeyance, owing to world conditions, but it has not been altogether halted. With materials and skills at hand some improvements in arrangement and display are being achieved, but at best these are expedients, and can represent no more than a nibbling at this considerable and time-consuming task.

It is a challenging undertaking. Surely no visitor to the Museum can long wander among the exhibit cases that crowd its halls without taking heart from the endless possibilities there presented—possibilities for inspiring the beholder with the meaning and importance of the American heritage in cultural and natural history.

Both major functions of the Museum, reference and exhibition, are important and each should support and supplement the other. The impressive growth of the reference collections, a result of the deep and widespread public interest in the Museum’s research and reference work, has placed a heavy burden on the staff and facilities of the institution and has contributed to a present imbalance between the two functions. Yet this imbalance cannot be remedied by subtracting from the already minimal reference services. These services the public finds essential, and often, by virtue of the scope of the collections and the specialized knowledge of the staff—unique. It can be remedied 
<<<17>>>
only by furthering the program of remodeling and revitalizing the exhibits.

Balanced Activities

A present goal of the Museum, then, is to balance its exercise of the functions of reference service and exhibition so that all will be served. Such a museum, representing freedom of access to the material facts of anthropology, natural science, and industrial technology, and to the facts and authentic treasures of our national history, fully serves the scientific and cultural life of the Nation and stands as an integral part of the way of life we uphold.

On the pages following are reported the activities of the staff in discharge of the functions here reviewed.

Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year 1950-51, the sum of $817,954 was allotted to the United States National Museum. Of this allotment $781,754 was used for salaries and expenses required for the preservation, increase, and study of the national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geological specimens, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, industry, graphic arts, and history. The remainder, $36,200, was used for printing and binding.

Publications

In addition to an Annual Report, the National Museum issued 25 publications based on work in the national collections, including 4 in the Bulletin series, 19 papers in the Proceedings, and 2 in the Contributions from the National Herbarium. The titles of these are listed on pages 111 and 112. At the close of the year 3 bulletins and 9 Proceedings papers were in press.

Members of the staff, their research associates, and collaborators published through the Museum and in the scientific journals and elsewhere a total of 159 books, articles, and reviews involving their special field of interest in the national collections. These were distributed as follows: 
<<<18>>>
Subject Publications | __ Subject Publications Anthropology ...... . 2a) History? YA Vie Fee ee ee ee Ge 3 Botany CREA Aa, Ge Sea ZA ZLOOLOLV iin Shite ene tay ee oye eli 79 Hngineering and Industries . . 4 GeOlOL Yi Veeck) ale eh ahemeune eve bes 23 NOTA te ieevuak) ea siden Pen eh L yk

An additional number of articles, also based wholly or in part on the collections, are published annually by the many scholars, researchers, and visitors who use the Museum’s services. In the natural sciences alone, the known total is 434. Others undoubtedly have not come to the attention of the staff.

Following the advancement of Paul H. Oehser to the position of chief of the Editorial Division of the Smithsonian Institution, on June 31, 1950, John S. Lea was appointed editor for the National Museum on November 13, 1950. In the interim, the Museum’s editorial work was ably forwarded by the assistant editor, Gladys O. Visel.

Library

The library owes much to the generosity of members of the curatorial staff and to other friends in and outside the Smithsonian Institution whose gifts were useful additions to the collections. Especially noteworthy among the gifts this year were about 500 books and periodicals on philately presented by Malcolm Macgregor of Bronxville, N. Y. Dr. Lloyd W. Stephenson’s gift of his own complete set of the Journal of Paleontology was a greatly appreciated addition to the sectional library of the Division of Invertebrate Paleontology.

As always, the larger number of publications received by the library were scientific and technical periodicals and other serials that came in continuation of sets previously established by exchange. In addition 5,497 volumes and parts were received as the result of 301 special requests, chiefly for numbers needed to fill gaps in existing sets or to initiate 219 new exchanges. Subscriptions for 242 periodicals not available in exchange were purchased, and 1,444 carefully selected books were bought.

Lending continued as a major activity, together with reference and bibliographical work. In addition, the detailed cataloging of 3,145 volumes and pamphlets was completed and 8,810 periodical parts were entered in the periodical record files. Cards added to the catalogs and shelf lists numbered 10,671. The staff also prepared 950 volumes for binding by the Government Printer, and repaired 1,300 books in the library, without, however, reducing the large arrearage of binding and necessary repair work. 
<<<19>>>
Department of Anthropology

(FRANK M. SETzLER, Head Curator)

A noteworthy increase has occurred in the collections representing western European and American colonial life, and with the recent addition of a specialist in that field, the Department of Anthropology has been able to undertake studies of colonial and early American crafts, notably lighting devices, as well as of materials excavated from seventeenthand eighteenth-century European settlements in Virginia, Delaware, and Maryland. From these are being produced important data of practical use to the archeologist and the historian. The popular response aroused by these studies is indicative of the great underlying interest of the American in his Kuropean antecedents and colonial origins.

The scientists on the staff have continued their specialized research on the collections, and have submitted 14 articles for publication in various scientific journals. At the same time the planning and installing of new thematic exhibits, an essential duty to the millions of annual visitors, have been carried forward by them and their scientific aides, while the department preparators have devoted their time to the building of scientifically accurate dioramas.

An outstanding accession is the nationally known collection of arts, furnishings, and utensils used by New England settlers of the period 1630 to 1830, discriminately collected by Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood. Over a period of many years furniture, ceramics, glass, pewter, wrought iron and brass utensils, woodenware, paintings, embroideries, textiles, and related items were assembled by them at Time Stone Farm, Marlborough, Mass. Now, through the foresight and generosity of Mrs. Greenwood, these treasures become an important and integral part of the national collections. The age of each piece is intrinsically obvious—stretchers, arms, lids show wear that only time and use can produce. None has been scraped or shellacked ; each has been preserved in its original state. Objects such as early American oak and pine furniture, a painted Taunton chest, a seventeenth-century table from Plymouth carved with interlacing arches showing the influence of early English-Norman architecture; boxes, chests, or looking glasses—each symbolizes a story, a tradition, that is well known to the donor, and for the past two years Mrs. Greenwood
<<<20>>>
has assisted the staff in documenting and classifying the 2,256 individual items comprising the gift.

An outstanding addition to the ceramic and cultural collections is a gift of Mrs. Lura Woodside Watkins. It consists of 314 earthenware utensils and fragmentary lots, most of which were excavated by Mrs. Watkins from the sites of 20 New England potteries in existence between 1687 and the late 1880’s. The collection has been evaluated and descriptions published by the donor. Valuable to students of American pottery as well as to archeologists, it can serve as a control for future identification of similar historical objects. This gift also includes a small number of sherds excavated from New Jersey sites by Robert J. Sims, and glass fragments from New England glass-house locations, as well as six specimens of glassware.

Somewhat similar is a collection of colonial and Indian artifacts from the historic Virginia site of Kicotan, donated by Alvin W. and Joseph B. Brittingham. The 628 lots and specimens of colonial objects, ranging from early seventeenth-century utensils and weapons fragments to ceramic wares of the mideighteenth century, provide specific evidence of what was in use in one of the earliest English settlements in America.

A collection of 16 silver nutmeg graters bearing the marks of eighteenth century silversmiths, of the type carried by English gentlemen so that they might properly spice their eggnog, was presented by an anonymous friend of the Museum.

Archeology.—The archeological collections were enriched by 2,472 prehistoric objects of stone, shell, and pottery from various regions in Venezuela, collected and donated by Lt. Col. Berkeley R. Lewis, United States Army Ordnance. Representative of most of the known archeological horizons from that country, they include several unique objects from areas heretofore unexcavated. Since the Museum collections contained only 42 archeological objects from Venezuela, these specimens are a welcome addition, indeed, to its Latin American series.

A total of 413 specimens of stone, pottery, and other materials from various Neolithic sites in Honshu, Japan, were presented by Maj. Howard A. MacCord, United States Army ; 906 sherds representing samples of pottery types from Lower Amazon sites on the islands of Marajo, Caviana, and Mexiana, and in the Territory of Amapa, Brazil, were presented by the Department of Anthropology, Columbia University.

Ethnology.—Gen. and Mrs. David G. Barr presented a black silk cape with fur collar and lining of golden-haired monkey skins, worn by a Manchuemperor. Lt. Col. Clifford Lee Smires gave a collection of wooden objects from a native village near Aitape, northeastern New Guinea. It includes a ceremonial staff, wooden bowl, iron-headed 
<<<21>>>
spear, bamboo arrows with palmwood foreshafts, a shell trumpet, decorated wooden drums, utensils of carved and decorated wood, and a highly stylized earthenware cooking pot.

Through negotiation with his heirs, the Museum obtained the horse medicine bundle of the late Wallace Night Gun, who, prior to his death in the fall of 1950, was the leader of the horse medicine cult on the Blackfoot Reservation, Mont. The bundle, previously owned by Night Gun’s uncle, Wolf Calf, credited with originating the horse medicine cult among the Piegan Tribe more than a century ago, is unique in museum collections. It includes materials used in constructing the dry painting altar and in performing the horse-dance ceremony of the cult, as well as secret medicines used in doctoring both horses and humans. Extensive information on the history and uses of this ceremonial bundle was obtained nearly a decade ago by Associate Curator John C. Ewers, who witnessed the ceremony in which it was ritually employed. He had an opportunity to study the cult with the assistance of Wallace Night Gun and other members.

Physical Anthropology.—Two collections of casts were received: one, representing the fossil hominoids from East Africa, includes a nearly complete skull of Proconsul africanus Hopwood, an apelike form that may come near representing the common ancestor of man and the present anthropoids. The other represents the fossil “ape-men” (Australopithecines) discovered in South Africa. Both were a gift of the American Institute of Human Paleontology and the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research.

Visitors, who rarely have an opportunity to look behind the scenes in a large museum, often do not realize the work and talent involved in the building of an exhibit, especially the creation of a scientifically accurate diorama. After the scenario of one particular phase of prehistoric or primitive culture has been prepared by the anthropologists, the design, modeling, casting, painting, and sculpturing must be accomplished by museum preparators in the anthropological laboratory. Through their experience, training, and ability, the story or scene is brought to life.

For example, a diorama depicting a fall scene in what is now Yosemite National Park, illustrating a moment when this valley was occupied by the Yosemite Indians, has been designed and practically completed. To accomplish this, the background setting was sketched and painted on the domed inner surface of a quadrisphere constructed to enclose the scene. Men, women, and children were 
<<<22>>>
Diorama of village life of Yosemite Indians in Yosemite Valley prior to its discovery in 1851. Last survivor of these people, then occupying 9 villages and numbering some 450, died, aged 90, in 1931. Installed diorama, illustrating typical activities, will be part of integrated exhibit containing authentic tools, weapons, clothing, and other artifacts. 
<<<23>>>

<<<24>>>
sculptured, molded, cast in wax, and painted—Indian women gathering acorns, a man making an arrow, women making baskets and taking hot stones for cooking from the fire, hunters returning to camp carrying a deer. All these were arranged around the slab houses under artificial oak and pine trees. Each of the thousands of oak leaves were cast in plastic, painted, and realistically assembled to hundreds of branches. The time and patience required to assemble such a tableau is difficult to appreciate. To provide an integrated exhibit group, the completed diorama when installed will be surrounded by cases containing a selection of authentic objects of material culture collected from the California Indians.

Eight other exhibits interpreting the material culture, religion, and arts and crafts of the Navaho and Apache Indians of Arizona and New Mexico, and six devoted to the Indians of California, were planned and installed. An exhibit of shrunken human heads, war trophies from the Jivaro Indians of Ecuador, installed during the year proved exceptionally popular with museum visitors. One case in the Near Eastern hall was revised to include a lay figure of an adult Arab appareled in a costume, headdress, robe, sword, and scabbard, presented by Abdul Aziz ’bn Saud, King of Saudi Arabia, together with the highly decorated trappings of an Arabian saddle and saddlebag. The hall of heating and lighting was entirely revised and its exhibits newly installed. The technological development of firemaking, heating, and lighting devices from different parts of the world is now shown in a series of 22 cases, and many items not previously exhibited were included in the new arrangement. Plans were also drawn up and work started on the preparation of a revised exhibit of plaster busts of American Indians. These are being prepared from the face masks, photographs, and measurements made by the late Dr. Ale’ Hrdlicka.

The department arranged or participated in a number of special exhibits. The division of ethnology collaborated with the division of archeology, the National Collection of Fine Arts, and the Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa, Okla., in presenting an exhibition during September 1950, “Pictorial Art of the American Indian—A Living Tradition,” in which selected ethnological and archeological specimens from the museum collections were employed to illustrate the traditional artistic backgrounds of living Indian artists of the Southwest, Great Plains, Eastern Woodlands, and Alaska, whose water colors were on exhibit. Several temporary exhibits were installed in the foyer of the Natural History Building, including painted Easter eggs from Czechoslovakia and Indian and colonial artifacts from a site in the Kicotan region, Hampton, Va., the latter exhibiting chronologically the utensils used in one of the earliest English settlements in America. The Ark of the Law (torah), a masterpiece of fine crafts-

969583—52
<<<25>>>
manship designed by Yehuda Wolpert and presented to President Truman by President Chaim Weizmann, of Israel, was installed among the exhibits illustrating cultures of the Near East.

A. special exhibit of American Indian gold work was installed in the Middle American hall, and a new exhibit of archeological materials representing the several cultural horizons recognized in the New York area was completed. A new exhibit devoted to physical anthropology, including a display illustrating the technique of making facial masks and busts, was also under way. —

An exhibit containing examples of human paleopathology was constructed by the curator of physical anthropology, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, working in cooperation with Drs. William J. Tobin and Daniel J. O’Regan, Washington orthopedic surgeons. It consisted of four interior-lighted exhibit cases in which pathological bones were mounted with their respective X-ray negatives so that a close comparison could be made. This display was shown in Washington during the Twenty-first Annual Scientific Assembly of the District of Columbia Medical Society, in Chicago in connection with the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, where it won a first prize and a gold medal, and again in Atlantic City at the annual meeting of the American Medical Association.

Routine preservation and maintenance of the collections continued. In this, a major task was the cleaning of practically all the specimens from the Andean region of Venezuela. Many pottery specimens, especially from Venezuela, Japan, and the Southwest, as well as other objects, were partially restored by the museum aides. More difiicult restoration jobs, including tinting of certain specimens and the manufacture of casts, were carried out in the anthropological laboratory. The systematic reclassification of ethnological specimens from the Washington, Oregon, and California culture areas continued.

To provide space for the well-documented and more scientifically valuable collections, part of the North American archeological collections were reorganized, and undocumented materials were culled out of the State collections of Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and the District of Columbia.

The preparation of histories of the physical anthropological accessions and cataloging of exceptionally large series of reprints continued, and work was started on the documentation of anthropometric instruments, photographic files, and sculptured busts of American Indians. 
<<<26>>>
Progress was made also in providing additional documentation to the catalog records of older collections. For example, a group of elderly Assiniboin Indians visiting the Museum were able to provide identification for a number of photographs in the collections taken on the Fort Peck Reservation nearly a half century ago. In another instance, the nonconformity to known types of Oceanic art of two strangely sculptured wooden figures, carved with heavy-browed triangular faces, received in a gift from the Caroline Islands, prompted a search for their identification. It was finally revealed that the Island Trading Co., maintained by the government of the mandated island Trust Territory, had sponsored the carving of hundreds of these figures for the commercial trade. Such documentation adds to the value and usefulness of the collections.

The head curator, F. M. Setzler, had an opportunity to study the anthropological and cultural history collections of museums in Detroit, Philadelphia, Columbus, and Buffalo. He worked several days in the Department of Anatomy at Tulane University, New Orleans, with Prof. Harold Cummins on the analysis of the dermatoglyphics which Mr. Setzler collected in 1948 from the Australian aborigines in northern Arnhem Land, Australia. The results obtained, especially from the fingerprints, are highly significant because over 70 percent contain complex whorls, whereas the world-wide average is approximately 45 percent; furthermore, no previous data had ever been collected from these remote aborigines. At the close of the year Mr. Setzler submitted approximately 200 hair samples, which he collected from the Arnhem Land aborigines, to Prof. Mildred Trotter in the Department of Anatomy at Washington University, St. Louis, for analysis and study. These may be as significant as the palmprints and fingerprints. He also prepared a short article, for publication by the Rushlight Club, describing the history of and plans for the Museum collection of heating and lighting instruments, and published an article in Instituto Panamericana de Georgrafia e Historia.

Neil M. Judd, associate in anthropology, continued his researches on sites in the Chaco Canyon area of the American Southwest and completed the first volume of the Pueblo Bonito report for publication.

Physical Anthropology.—Dr. T. D. Stewart, curator of physical anthropology, during visits to the Westmoreland County Court House in Montross, Va., the John Carter Brown Library in Providence, R. L., and the Maryland Historical Society in Baltimore, Md., secured data for the historical section of the report he is preparing on his excavations along Potomac Creek, Va. He also studied the comparative 
<<<27>>>
aspects of stockaded villages along the Atlantic coast at the time of the discovery. Ina review of the problem involving the claim that a separate neural arch is a hereditary condition in the lumbar vertebrae of Eskimos, he reexamined 786 spines, but final analysis of this material was not completed.

The associate curator, Dr. M. T. Newman, completed an anthropometric report on data obtained by Dr. K. Oberg in Brazil, and prepared several reports on Indian skeletal material from sites in Virginia, Washington, South Dakota, and Kansas. He began a study of skeletal material from northern Arnhem Land, Australia, and he also laid plans for a study of Indian skeletal material from sites near Mobridge, S. Dak., a careful analysis of which should elucidate some of the problems of racial cultural history in the Missouri River area and thus fit in closely with the work there of the Smithsonian River

Basin Surveys.

Archeclogy.—Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of archeology, continued researches on various phases of Plains and other New World archeology. His study of aboriginal pottery from Montana, based partly on Museum collections and partly on outside collections, was completed and published in the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences. He also completed a report on the 1948 findings of the Smithsonian Institution—National Geographic Society archeological expedition to La Venta, Tabasco, Mexico; another on a large and hitherto unreported collection of burial-ground materials made by Dr. M. W. Stirling for the National Museum in 1923 from the vicinity of Mobridge, S. Dak.; and a short nontechnical article on his reconnaissance findings in archeological sites in southwestern Virginia in 1940. In June Dr. Wedel left Washington to supervise the excavation of a stratified Arikara village site near Pierre, S. Dak., for the River Basin Surveys.

Dr. Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator, who joined the staff on January 21, 1951, continued the archeological research on Virginia he had initiated while at the University of Virginia and has been engaged in reorganizing and interpolating his data on the basis of the collections in the Museum. These will present a chronological and geographical sequence of cultural development in Virginia. Concurrently he is analyzing and interpreting archeological materials excavated by the Lower Amazon Expedition (Evans and Meggers) of the Department of Anthropology, Columbia. University, during 1948 and 1949, in the Territory of Amapé4 and on the islands of Mexiana, Cavianna, and Marajo. This is a joint research project with Dr. Betty J. Meggers, who, as comember of the expedition, participated in the field work, laboratory classification of materials, and interpretative analyses. 
<<<28>>>
Margaret C. Blaker, museum aide, made an analysis of certain pottery types from a palisaded village at Potomac Creek, Va.

Ethnology.—The curator, Herbert W. Krieger, completed his monograph on the peoples of Taiwan (Formosa) and on the marginal Yami and Bataan peoples who occupy the outlying island groups between Formosa and Luzon. Nearing completion is Mr. Krieger’s study of La Isabela, the first planned Spanish colony in America, founded by Christopher Columbus in December 1493. Research was continued with the collections made, under the Smithsonian grants from the W. L. Abbott and Ernest N. May funds, at fifteenthand sixteenth-century sites of Lucayan and Taino Indian villages and of European settlements associated with the first voyage of Christopher Columbus in the Bahama Islands, Hispaniola, and Cuba. At the invitation of the Cuban Ministry of Education, he attended a conference in Habana, Cuba, to establish archeological and ethnological terminology applicable to the prehistoric and historic Indian cultures of Cuba and the entire Caribbean area. Following the conference he visited the historical Taino Indian village sites of Vigia and Barajagua, in Oriente Province, Cuba, near the town of Banes and the headwaters of the Nipe River, where objects of Spanish colonial manufacture have been recovered in association with Taino Indian artifacts.

The associate curator, John C. Ewers, completed 14 of the 16 chapters of his study of the influence of the horse in Blackfoot Indian culture, based on more than 3 years of field work. He also edited Edwin T. Denig’s “Of the Assiniboines,” a manuscript in the Missouri Historical Society, St. Louis, for publication by that society, and continued his quest for comparative specimens useful in documenting the early George Catlin collections of Plains Indian specimens through correspondence with European museums and in collecting photographs of selected specimens from European collections.

Associate Curator C. Maicolm Watkins concluded his studies on lighting of the inventive period, 1830-1860. Results of the brief study by him on the form of American federal period pianos were published in the magazine Antiques. He continued with his research in identification and evaluation of colonial archeological materials from various sites in Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and New England. In connection with his interest in completing research on European and American pottery types found in colonial archeological sites, he visited the National Park Service Museum at Jamestown, Va., to examine colonial pottery excavated from the site of old Jamestown. 
<<<29>>>
Research by visiting investigators.—Scientists, scholars, and writers from various museums, scientific organizations, colleges, and universities in this country and abroad, numbering more than 500, conferred with the staff, studied the collections, and used the library facilities of the department in connection with their particular research problems. They came from England, Germany, France, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Portugal, Japan, Canada, Cuba, Mexico, Venezuela, Brazil, and from 18 States in the Union. Among the agencies of the Federal Government, the National Park Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Department of State made frequent use of the department’s facilities, as did the Civil Service Commission, the Army Recreational Service, the Public Housing Administration, and several State agencies. 
<<<30>>>
Department of Zoology

(Watpo L. Scumitt, Head Curator)

The year’s accomplishments of the staff are highlighted by the completion of three significant manuscripts, each of far-reaching importance in its particular field of zoological science. These papers mark the culmination of several years of serious study and some months of field work on the part of the authors:

FisHEs OF THE MARSHALL AND MARTANAS ISLANDS

The first volume of a descriptive catalogue by Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator, Division of Fishes, assisted by Dr. Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator, Loren P. Woods, Chicago Natural History Museum, Dr. Harl S. Herald, California Academy of Sciences, and Arthur D. Welander, University of Washington.

Birps oF THE ARNHEM LAND EXPEDITION

A report on a collection made in a little-known area by an expedition sponsored jointly by the Commonwealth of Australia, the National Geographic Society, and the Smithsonian Institution, by Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator of birds.

Frogs ofr SOUTHEASTERN BRAZIL

A monographic account by Dr. Doris Cochran, associate curator of reptiles and amphibians.

Also this year there were at least 290 publications based on material belonging to the Museum. Members of the zoological staff were authors of 79 of these, in some cases joint authors. The authors of the remainder were either employees of other Government agencies, or were outside investigators who either were assisted with the loan of specimens or who worked in the collections at the Museum. The staff submitted for publication an additional 24 articles.

With regard to the collections, the number of specimens added showed an increase of 20 percent over the previous year. As for type specimens, which form the most valuable part of any systematic collection, this year showed an increase of not less than 1,434 types, chiefly holotypes and mostly insects.

The retirement of the curator of echinoderms, Austin H. Clark, on December 31, 1950, after 42 years of intimate association with the Institution, calls attention to the fact that under his ministrations the national collection of echinoderms has grown to be probably the largest and, except for the east Atlantic and Mediterranean areas,
<<<31>>>
by far the most representative in the world. As regards crinoids it is without a peer.

In other staff changes, in the division of mammals, Norman M. Miller, aide, resigned August 25, 1950, Charles O. Handley, Jr., was appointed assistant curator on November 28, 1950, and James H. Brown was appointed October 16, 1950, as skilled laborer. Robert Kanazawa, scientific aide, worked in the division of birds from November 138, 1950, to June 22, 1951, and then transferred to the division of fishes. J.T. Willett, museum aide, resigned on December 31, 1950.

While making an ecologic survey of the Point Barrow region, the director of the Arctic Research Laboratory, Prof. G. E. MacGinitie, and Mrs. MacGinitie extensively sampled the invertebrate fauna of the adjacent ocean. As a result of their labors and their interest in the national collections, some 1,600 marine shells and nearly 7,500 miscellaneous invertebrates came to the Museum.

Transferred to the Museum by the United States Army were several collections consisting of 88 mammals from Malaya and 57 reptiles and amphibians from Selangor. They were obtained by Maj. Robert Traub, who studied scrub typhus in Malaya and animal-borne diseases of man in Alaska and elsewhere in the course of his service with the Army and the United States Public Health Service. Of special interest in the latter donation was the inclusion of a set of king cobra embryos from eggs opened at intervals during the 3 weeks preceding hatching.

The fisheries investigations undertaken by the Fish and Wildlife Service vessel Oregon in the Gulf of Mexico under the leadership of Stewart Springer brought to the Museum one of the most extensive collections of fishes, crustaceans, mollusks, and miscellaneous invertebrates ever made in the deeper waters of that area; many new and unusual forms were included in the more than 2,000 specimens received.

The Blue Dolphin, commanded by Comdr. David C. Nutt, and sponsored by the Arctic Institute of North America, with the cooperation of the United States Navy, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and the Smithsonian Institution, was in the field from June 21 to September 7 continuing last season’s oceanographic and biologic investigations on and along the coast of Labrador. Special attention was given to the Hamilton Inlet—Lake Melville and Seven Islands Bay areas. Of the zoological collections, made chiefly by Commander Nutt, Richard H. Backus of Cornell University, and 
<<<32>>>
Charles O. Handley, Jr., 210 birds, 18 skeletons, 194 mammals, and 1,431 marine invertebrates accrued to the Museum. Other accessions of special interest included the following:

Mammals.—The Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, through the Health Department, The Panama Canal, transferred to the Museum 222 arboreal mammals collected in connection with their investigations of jungle yellow fever. Especially noteworthy, also, was the gift of six fine specimens of chamois collected by the donor, Capt. Kimberly Brabson, U. S. A., in the Bavarian Alps, the first adequate representation of the species ever received.

Birds.—The leading accessions were those coming to the Museum as gifts from the W. L. Abbott Fund, Smithsonian Institution, consisting of 3,480 bird skins, 53 skeletons, 2 sets of eggs, and 1 nest of Colombian birds collected by M. A. Carriker, Jr. ; 526 skins, 6 skeletons, and 6 carcasses in alcohol, collected in Panama by Dr. A. Wetmore and W. M. Perrygo; 393 skins from Denmark; and 344 skins from British Colombia, collected by J. A. Munro. Especially worthy of mention are the 453 skins and 29 skeletons of birds from South Africa and Southern Rhodesia, including 59 species new to the Museum, collected by Dr. Herbert Friedmann.

Other valuable accessions were received as exchanges from the following: South Australian Museum, 28 skins of Australian birds; Peabody Museum, Yale University, 5 skins representing as many forms of Pacific Island birds new to the Museum; Zoologisches Museum der Humboldt-Universitat, Berlin, 1 skin of a Celebesian honeyeater, M/yza sarasinorum, a genus new to the Museum; Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, a skin each of Upucerthia harterti and Leptasthenura vanacensis from Bolivia; Coryndon Museum, Nairobi, 5 skins of East African honey-guides and warblers; and Museu Dr. Alvaro de Castro, Lourenco Marques, 117 skins of birds from Portuguese East Africa.

Reptiles and amphibians.—A number of rarities were included in the year’s accessions: 31 reptiles and amphibians, the first specimens from Korea since the Jouy material was received in 1885, were presented to the Museum by William E. Old, Jr., a member of the armed forces serving in that country. The School of Tropical Medicine, Calcutta, India, donated 71 reptiles of great interest, among them 2 species (4 specimens) of the genus Uropeltis, never before represented in the national collections. The Everglades National Park donated a paratype of a new subspecies of the swamp snake Liodytes alleni lineatopus, and the Museum of Natural History, University of Illinois, through Dr. Hobart M. Smith, a paratype of a snake, Tantzlla flavilineata. 
<<<33>>>
Fishes.—Rare species and type material comprised at least a part of each of the year’s more noteworthy accessions of fishes. Important accessions received in exchange include: From the Applied Fisheries Laboratory, University of Washington, through Drs. Lauren R. Donaldson and Arthur D. Welander, 144 fishes, including numerous types of new species from the Marshall Islands; Rhodes University College, through Dr. J. L. B. and Margaret M. Smith, 91 fishes from Knysna Estuary, Cape Province, South Africa; the University of Hawaii, through Dr. William A. Gosline, 43 Hawaiian fishes, including several types; Stanford University, through Dr. George S. Myers, a paratype of a new Philippine Henicichthys; Cornell University, through Dr. Edward C. Raney, 11 fishes from Brazil. Cornell University, through Dr. Raney, also contributed 215 fishes from Japan as a gift. Other noteworthy gifts were received from: Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College, through Dr. George A. Moore, 87 paratypes of a new darter; Dr. Clark Hubbs, 176 clinid fishes from various localities; the California Academy of Sciences, through Dr. Earl 8. Herald, a paratype of a new pipefish; and Dr. Eugenie Clark, American Museum of Natural History, 3,730 specimens collected by the donor in Micronesia.

Insects.—The more important insect accessions were transfers from the United States Department of Agriculture. These included two accessions totaling 66,498 specimens in part from the Department’s Alaska insect project (18,498 specimens) and in part from the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine (48,000 specimens) ; Dr. Albert R. Shadle’s lifetime collection of insects, numbering 5,357 specimens representative of most of the orders; and the Eggers collection of bark beetles, especially rich in material from South America, 6,449 specimens. By transfer from the Department of the Army, through Lt. Col. Walter J. LaCasse, there were received 73 mosquitoes that he had collected in Korea and that are of great value in determining the species encountered by the armed forces in their control work in that country. Individual donors enriching the national collections with important material are Prof. Masao Azuma, with 184 Japanese ants; Dr. Wilhelm Wagner, with 111 European leafhoppers, of which a large part are new to the collections; and H. G. Barber, with his private collection, consisting of 32,151 bugs and beetles.

Marine invertebrates.—In addition to the important material coming to the division from various expeditions and investigations (see p20) valuable type material was received as a gift from the following: Museum of Comparative Zoology, through Arthur Loveridge, 16 types of fresh-water crabs from Nyasaland; National Research Council, Pacific Science Board, Scientific Investigations of Micronesia, through Dr. M. W. de Laubenfels, 9 types of Hawaiian and 98 types of 
<<<34>>>
Micronesian sponges; Dr. George Henry Penn, types of a crayfish; Dr. N. T. Mattox, types of an anostracan branchiopod; Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth, types of 2 species of pycnogonids; Dr. Roman Kenk, types of 4 fresh-water flatworms from Alaska; Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., types of a crayfish; Robert J. Menzies, 86 types of isopods of the genus Limnoria; Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Holland, through Dr. L. B. Holthuis, 9 types of gorgonians; University of California, through Dr. Ralph I. Smith, 2 types of a species of shrimp ; Dr. Wesley R. Coe, a type of a nemertean; and the University of Southern California, Allan Hancock Foundation, through John D. Soule, a bryozoan paratype. The large collection of nearly 3,000 largely identified crayfish and other fresh-water invertebrates from Indiana and the TVA region, received from Dr. Rendell Rhoades, formed one of the most important accessions of the year. Also to be noted is the selected set of decapod crustaceans from the Mediterranean coast of Spain, an exchange from Dr. R. Zariquiey.

Mollusks.—Most noteworthy of the 208 accessions this year were: 275 marine mollusks from Malindi, presented by the Kenya Colony Game Department through R. Teague; nearly 2,000 land mollusks, mainly of the family Urocoptidae, from Cuba, a gift from Oscar Alcalde Led6n; 604 land and fresh-water mollusks from Panama and Ecuador, transferred to the Museum by James Zetek, Canal Zone Biological Area ; 2 rare marine mollusks, A/wrex spectrum Reeve, from Dominica, British West Indies, presented by A. Hyatt Verrill; 105 Japanese shells, including paratypes of 6 recently described species, from the Zoological Institute, Kyoto University, through Tadashige Habe and Dr. Tokubei Kuroda; the type of a marine slug, Plewrobranchaea hedgpethi Abbott, from Port Aransas, from Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth; 5 types of the marine mollusk Polycera hummi Abbott, from Florida, from the Marine Biological Laboratory, Florida State University; 2 paratypes of Micrarionta agnesae Kanakofi, from San Clemente Island, Calif., from the Los Angeles County Museum, through George P. Kanakoff, and 2 paratypes of the Cuban land shell Cerion chaplini, described by Charles B. Wurtz, from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.

Helminths.—Much type material was included in the 11 accessions received this year: The types of 3 nematodes parasitic in lizards from California and Arizona from Raymond H. Edgerly; types of a parasitic annelid, Schmardaella hylae Goodchild, from Dade County, Fla., from Dr. C. G. Goodchild; the types of 8 trematodes and cestodes from California, from Dr. E. C. Haderlie; types of 3 trematodes from Miss Mary Louise Hanson; types of a nematode, Longistriata neotoma Murphy, from Melvin F. Murphy; types of a cestode, Cittotaenia megasacca from Carbon County, Wyo., from the author, Charles F. 
<<<35>>>
Smith ; types of 2 cestodes, Mesogyna hepatica, new genus, new species, and Hymenolepis pulchra, new species, from California, from Dr. Marietta Voge; types of the trematode Alloglyptus crenshawi Byrd, from Prof. Elon E. Byrd; and the types of 3 cestodes, from David T. Clark.

Echinoderms.—Several interesting specimens were accessioned this year from the Institute of Fisheries Research, University of North Carolina, through Dr. W. H. Sutcliffe: A very fine specimen of Asterias vestita, described by Thomas Say in 1825 and not seen since that time; four other sea-stars, Motraster magnificus, previously known only from St. Helena and Puerto Rico, a record for size in this species; Goniaster cuspidatus, representing the most northern locality from which the species is known; and nine specimens of Sider7aster grandis, described by A. E. Verrill in 1899 and not since collected. Also worthy of mention was a specimen of the rare Tethyaster subinermis from the Mediterranean, received from the British Museum (Natural History), through Ailsa M. Clark.

As an interim step in the program of replacing with modern habitat groups the outmoded synoptic displays, some of which are more than 40 years old, the chief exhibits preparator, W. L. Brown, and his staff turned their efforts toward the replacement of old specimens, formerly mounted on bases or standing in otherwise bare cases, with ones more recently mounted. This also involves fitting the cases with lights, providing suitable monochrome backgrounds, and supplying appropriate accessories and foregrounds. The first of these completed contains two red wolves from Texas, and the second, a striking group of pronghorn antelopes, three bucks of varying ages and a doe, from southern Wyoming. Until the customary museum procedure of mounting such animals in habitat groups can be resumed, others of

TOP: Exhibits staff remodels Virginia deer display.

sult will be a semihabitat group with animals posed among actual vegetation from cypress swamp in which

they were taken, near Allendale, S. C.

BOTTOM: Completed exhibit of pronghorn antelope from Oregon Butte area of Wyoming, in semihabitat group. Use of authentic accessories, indirect lighting, and neutral background makes a more effective and instructive exhibit than previous arrangement of mounted animals in bare case. It represents a step toward the

diorama effect of a true habitat group. 
<<<36>>>

<<<37>>>

<<<38>>>
the mammal series in the public halls will be similarly treated, beginning next year with the Virginia deer.

Seven miniature models, as well as two dioramas and six life-size models, were completed; four birds and one small mammal were mounted; and new labels were prepared for a number of exhibits.

A number of mounted pheasants in two illuminated cases were also placed on exhibition this year, as were seven penguins, two sage grouse, four deer, a squirrel, a deer head, and a caribou head.

The reorganization and rehabilitation of the comprehensive Iddings collection of Lepidoptera being carried out by W. D. Field, associate curator of insects, are nearing completion, and it is hoped that this fine material, now arranged to tell a real story about these most interesting insects, will be back on exhibition before the end of the calendar year 1951.

The entire collection of rodent skins was rearranged and put in order, greatly facilitating work on and identifications in this most numerous and most frequently studied group of mammals. Some progress was made in merging the Fish and Wildlife collections of birds with those of the National Museum, the Nyctibiidae, Caprimulgidae, Apodidae, Trogonidae, and a small part of the Strigidae being treated.

Routine processing and cataloging of the reptile and fish collections continued. Both are in an excellent state of preservation, arranged in an orderly manner, and readily accessible. However, it is estimated that several years will be required to complete the identification and cataloging of the large accessions of fishes recently acquired.

About 12,000 specimens of insects, mostly recent accessions, were prepared and distributed among the collections and some 9,000 others were reconditioned. A portion of the Rhopalocera, presented to the Museum several years ago by J. A. Smyth, was transferred from the Smyth cases to those in which the national collections are filed. Rehabilitation of the Collembola collection was continued.

Under the direction of the assistant curator of marine invertebrates, F. M. Bayer, the collections of flatworms, nemerteans, chaetognaths, and bryozoans were condensed and arranged in alphabetic order. A similar reorganization of the sea anemones was initiated. As a result of the labors of J. T. Willett, museum aide, until his resignation at the end of the calendar year, all the penaeid and caridean shrimps were completely inventoried and rearranged and are now in good order for the first time in a number of years.

All the crustacean type lots were inspected. It was found that the labels placed on the shelves for recording periodic checks of the pre
<<<39>>>
servative provide an effective means of determining the types of bottles subject to evaporation.

In continuation of the comprehensive reorganization of the study collections of mollusks, a start was made in combining the New World mainland land shells and those from the West Indies into one neotropical land mollusk collection. Almost all the Museum’s freshwater shells were brought together in one room to simplify the use of this important world-wide collection.

Rapid progress is being made in the segregation of zoological type specimens so that they may be better safeguarded. Remaining to be segregated are between 20 and 25 percent of the insect types and 10 percent of the mollusk types.

Preparatorial work, making up and renovating skins, and cleaning skeletal material consumed a considerable part of the time of the staff in the taxidermist shop. For the divisions concerned chiefly with land vertebrates 148 turtles were skinned, the skins tanned and made up, 26 shells and skulls were roughed out, and 3 shells and 2 skulls were cleaned ; 41 mammals were skinned, of which 30 were made into study skins and 11 were prepared for tanning; 12 mammal skins were beamed; 102 fresh and dry bird skins were made up, 59 scraped and degreased before making up, and 51 skins relaxed and reshaped. Osteological work included the cleaning of 1,490 skulls, the roughing out of 44 complete skeletons, and the cleaning of 110 skeletons.

Mammals.—In his studies of mammals of the Pacific Ocean area, Dr. David H. Johnson, associate curator, gave special attention to the classification of the Muridae and to the fauna of the Palau Islands, while continuing active work on a report of the mammals of the Australian Arnhem Land Expedition of 1948. He left on June 15 for the purpose of making collections on and in the vicinity of Mount Kinabalu, British North Borneo, attached to a medical research unit from the United States Army Medical Department Graduate School engaged in an intensive study of scrub typhus.

Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator, began a study of the material collected by Harry Hoogstraal in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan. On June 3 he departed to make an ecological study of the mammals of the Arctic slope of Alaska, with headquarters at the Arctic Research Laboratory at Point Barrow. This undertaking, expected to produce the first complete collection from this area, will continue through the summer season. Partial support for the work was provided by the Office of Naval Research. Charles O. Handley, Jr., who was appointed assistant curator in November 1950, made particular progress 
<<<40>>>
with a systematic and distributional study he had under way on Arctic hares, foxes, and lemmings.

Birds.—The curator, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, completed about onethird of his monograph of the honey-guides (Indicatoridae) based largely on his work in southern Africa. Jointly with Ludlow Griscom and R. T. Moore he published the first volume of the “Check List of the Birds of Mexico,” and a number of shorter papers and reviews, and also gave considerable time to the preparation of ranges of the Parulidae of North America for the new A. O. U. “Check List of North American Birds.” With the aid of grants from the Guggenheim Foundation and the American Philosophical Society and special research funds of the Smithsonian Institution, he was enabled to spend a little over 5 months in South Africa and Southern Rhodesia studying the habits and life histories of the honey-guides and parasitic weaverbirds. Besides amassing a great deal of new information, he made considerable ornithological collections.

Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator, completed his report on the birds of the Australian Arnhem Land Expedition, and made further progress on his critical catalog of type specimens of birds in the Museum and on his check list of the birds of the Indo-Chinese region. He also published papers revising various groups and describing new races of Asiatic and Australian birds, and prepared other papers on additional species.

Dr. Wetmore continued his work with the Panamanian and Colombian collections and published three papers describing new forms of birds from these areas. From a field trip on which he was accompanied by W. M. Perrygo, exhibits preparator, to the Azuero Peninsula, Panama, he returned with a collection of 526 bird skins, 6 skeletons, and 6 carcasses in alcohol.

Reptiles and amphibians.—Dr. Doris M. Cochran, associate curator, after completing her monographic study on “Frogs of Southeastern Brazil,” spent 4 months in London, Paris, and Copenhagen examining collections in preparation for a similar treatise on the frogs of the western and central parts of Brazil. In another paper submitted for publication two new Brazilian frogs were described.

Fishes.—Preparation of the descriptive catalog of the fishes of the northern Marshall and Marianas Islands, collected during and after the atom-bomb experiments in 1946, occupied the greater part of the research time of Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator, and of Dr. Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator. Over 80 percent of this project is finished. Part I of the catalog, in process of publication, covers 45 families of fishes, involving 183 genera. During the year Dr. Schultz 
<<<41>>>
published six other research papers and had in press or submitted for publication three more.

Insects.—Dr. EK. A. Chapin, curator, continued work on the Coccinellidae of Colombia. In addition to his generic studies of the North American Scarabaeidae, O. L. Cartwright, associate curator, completed four short papers. He was dispatched to Costa Rica for the last 6 weeks of the fiscal year to make an intensive study of the insect fauna of the Turrialba area and to secure a representative series of specimens so that the Museum could more authoritatively deal with the many calls made by the Inter-American Institute at Turrialba for the identification of specimens of local insects.

William D. Field, associate curator, submitted two manuscripts for publication and actively continued his revision of the New World Lithosiinae and Theclinae. The report on the Isotomidae being prepared by Grace Glance, associate curator, is awaiting further Kuropean material. Dr. R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator, was occupied with the publication of his Museum bulletin dealing with the generic names used in the family Staphylinidae, and made further progress with the bibliography and index of Part 6 of Bulletin 185, “Check List of the Coleopterous Insects of Mexico, Central America, West Indies, and South America.” He also published the bibliography of the late Herbert S. Barber and an account of the present status of the Casey collection of Coleoptera.

Marine Invertebrates.—The curator, Dr. F. A. Chace, Jr., published one paper and completed the manuscript of another. His survey of a number of species of Recent decapod crustaceans is nearly completed. Paul L. Illg, associate curator, in continuance of his revisionary studies of the notodelphyoid and lichomolgid copepods, published the description of a new genus and species of notodelphyoid copepod from Japan. While at the Oceanographic Laboratories of the University of Washington at Friday Harbor, during the summer of 1950, he completed field studies of the copepods parasitic upon or commensal with numerous species of fish, tunicates, mollusks, and various other invertebrates. In connection with this work, he collected for the Museum extensive series of copepods and their harboring organisms, together with a large representation of the free-living aquatic animals of the region, gathering more than 5,100 specimens in all. A number of species and genera new to science were obtained, and the information compiled considerably extends the knowledge of the ecological status of the forms concerned.

The assistant curator, F. M. Bayer, published the descriptions of two new primnoid corals and a revision of the nomenclature of the Gorgoniidae. He continued work on a handbook of the West Indian octo
<<<42>>>
corals and during the year completed an abridged account of the aleyonarian fauna of the Gulf of Mexico and the descriptions of certain Hawaiian octocorals. Clarence R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, advanced his report on the amphipods of the Point Barrow, Alaska, area and his revisionary studies of the American amphipods of the family Talitridae. Mrs. Mildred 8. Wilson, collaborator, continued work on her monographic study of the North American species of the genus Diaptomus and studies of the fresh-water copepods of Alaska. In connection with the latter, she completed descriptions of new species of Diaptomus from Oregon and Alaska and of a new subgenus with representative species inhabiting Alaska and Siberia. In collaboration with Dr. A. G. Humes she completed a study of the late developmental stages of a fresh-water copepod which is significant

as the intermediate host of a helminth parasite of humans. The work of the division was greatly aided by the volunteer specialists, listed below, who kindly identified material of various groups.

Dr. Donald P. Abbott: Tunicates.

Dr. Albert H. Banner: Mysid and euphausiid crustaceans.

Mr. J. Laurens Barnard: Amphipod crustaceans.

Mr. and Mrs. Cyril J. Berkeley: Polychaete worms.

Dr. C. G. Bookhout: Sand cases.

Dr. V. Brehm: Copepod crustaceans.

Mr. Martin D. Burkenroad: Shrimps.

Mrs. G. C. Carl: Cumacean crustaceans.

Dr. Oskar Carlgren: Sea anemones.

Dr. B. G. Chitwood: Nematode worms.

Dr. Wesley R. Coe: Nemertean worms.

Dr. C. Delamare Deboutteville: Copepod crustaceans.

Mr. Howard M. Feder: Cumacean crustaceans.

Dr. W. K. Fisher: Sipunculoid, echiuroid, and priapuloid worms.

Dr. John 8. Garth: Crabs.

Dr. G. E. Gates: Earthworms.

Mr. Cadet Hand: Hydroids and sea anemones.

Dr. Olga Hartman: Polychaete worms.

Dr. Melville H. Hatch: Isopod crustaceans.

Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth: Pycnogonids.

Dr. Dora P. Henry: Barnacles.

Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.: Crayfish.

Dr. Leslie Hubricht: Amphipod and isopod crustaceans.

Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms.

Dr. Roman Kenk: Flatworms.

Dr. R. W. Kiser: Cladoceran crustaceans.

Dr. M. W. de Laubenfels: Sponges.

Dr. J. G. Mackin: Isopod crustaceans.

Dr. N. TT. Mattox: Conchostracan crustaceans.

Mr. Robert J. Menzies: Tanaid and isopod crustaceans.

Dr. Marvin C. Meyer: Leeches.

Dr. Walter G. Moore: Branchiopod crustaceans.

Mr. Stanley Mulaik: Isopod crustaceans.

Dr. Raymond C. Osburn: Bryozoans.

Dr. E. Lowe Pierce : Chaetognaths.

Dr. Marian H. Pettibone: Polychaete worms.

Dr. Edward G. Reinhard: Rhizocephalan crustaceans.

Dr. Mary Dora Rogick: Bryozoans.

Dr. Willis L. Tressler: Ostracod crustaceans.

Dr. Elise Wesenberg-Lund: Polychaete worms.

Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson: Copepod crustaceans.

Mollusks.—The curator, Dr. Harald A. Rehder, devoted himself to a study of the genus Distorsio and to a partially completed paper on

969583—52—_3 
<<<43>>>
the marine mollusks of the Gulf of Mexico. He also gave considerable time to the preparation of the list of modern names which will form an appendix to a new edition of Rogers’ “Shell Book,” to be published early next fall. Dr. J. P. E. Morrison, associate curator, worked principally on the families Cypraeidae and Conidae of the marine mollusks of Bikini, while continuing his studies on the brackish and fresh-water mollusks of the families Ellobiidae, Pleuroceridae, and Thiaridae. Associate Curator R. Tucker Abbott worked on numerous small papers describing new species of mollusks mainly from the waters of Florida and Texas. He also began a study of the Neritidae of Bikini. Dr. Paul Bartsch, associate in mollusks, finished his monograph on the Cuban members of the family Urocoptidae and made further progress on a similar large paper dealing with the Turritidae of the United States west coast.

Echinoderms.—Researches completed by the curator, Austin H. Clark, up to the time of his retirement in December, included work on a collection of echinoderms from Saipan in the Marianas Islands, the preparation of a section on Recent crinoids for the forthcoming “Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology,” a bibliography on the ecology of the Asteroidea and Crinoidea for the National Research Council, and four articles on the fauna of North America, Central America, South America, and the United States to be published (in Hebrew) in the “Encyclopaedia Hebraica,” Jerusalem, Israel.

Research by visiting investigators.—More than 2,900 individuals visited the offices and laboratories seeking information, consulting the staff and literature, and examining and studying specimens. Of these at least 385 were professional biologists or serious students working chiefly in the field of systematic zoology. Illustrative of the wide range of interest covered by these specialists is the following list of representative scientists, other than those of government agencies making daily use of the Museum, who did extensive research in the zoological collections.

Dr. E. Raymond Hall, Dr. Keith R. Kelson, Museum of Natural History, University of Kansas. Distributional studies of North American mammals.

Dr. D. A. Hooijer, Leiden Museum, Netherlands. Recent and fossil mammals of eastern Asia.

Dr. Robert Rausch, Arctic Health Research Center, U. S. Public Health Service, Anchorage, Alaska. Alaskan mammals related to disease.

Mr. Colin C. Sanborn, Curator of Mammals, Chicago Natural History Museum. Philippine rodents.

Dr. George H. H. Tate, American Museum of Natural History. Squirrels of southeastern Asia.

Mr. T. D. Burleigh, Moscow, Idaho. Idaho birds.

Dr. Laurence Irving, U. S. Public Health Service, Arctic Health Research Center, Anchorage, Alaska. Alaskan birds. 
<<<44>>>
ANNUAL REPORT—ZOOLOGY 3l

Dr. Abelardo Moreno, University of Habana, Cuba. Cuban birds.

Dr. H. C. Oberholser, Cleveland. North American birds.

Father Antonio Olivaros, Catholic University of America, Washington. Colombian birds.

Dr. W. L. Burger, University of Illinois. Reptiles of Venezuela and snakes of Mexico.

Dr. BE. R. Dunn, Haverford College. Genera Dendrobates and Atelopus, and reptiles of Panama and Colombia.

Dr. L. GC. Stuart, University of Michigan. Reptiles of Guatemala.

Dr. E. H. Taylor, University of Kansas. Costa Rican frogs.

Dr. Carl L. Hubbs, Seripps Institution of Oceanography. Marine fishes of eastern Pacific.

Dr. Katsuzo Kuronuma, Tokyo, Japan. Japanese fresh-water fishes.

Dr. G. S. Myers, Stanford University. Marine fishes of the Pacific Ocean.

Dr. A. E. Parr, American Museum of Natural History. Deep-sea fishes.

Dr. Edward C. Raney, Cornell University. Fresh-water fishes of eastern North America.

Mr. William C. Schroeder, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard College, Skates and rays of the eastern Atlantic.

Dr. José Oiticica Filho, National Museum, Rio de Janeiro. Giant silk moth of the New World.

Dr. José Herrera G., University of Chile. Certain groups of Lepidoptera of South America.

Mr. John Lane, University of Sad Paulo. Certain mosquito genera of the New World.

Dr. Luis Vargas, Institute of Health of Mexico. Certain mosquito genera of the New World.

Mr. Denton W. Crocker, Cornell University. Crayfishes of the State of New York.

Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., University of Virginia. American crayfishes.

Dr. Marian H. Pettibone, U. 8S. Navy, Arctic Research Laboratory, Point Barrow, Alaska. Arctic polychaete worms.

Mr. J. Q. Tierney, Marine Laboratory, University of Miami. Sponges of the Gulf of Mexico.

Mr. Austin B. Williams, University of Kansas. Midwestern crayfishes.

Dr. Freydoun Afshar, Department of Mines, Tehran, Iran. The pelecypod mollusks of the family Tellinidae.

Dr. Joseph Bequaert, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard College. Land and fresh-water mollusks of Africa and South America.

Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth, Institute of Marine Sciences, Port Aransas, Tex. Mollusks of the Texas coast.

Mrs. George E. MacGinitie, U. S. Navy, Arctic Research Laboratory, Point Barrow, Alaska. Marine mollusks of Point Barrow. 
<<<45>>>
Department of Botany

(Jason R. SwaLLEn, Head Curator)

Intensive curatorial work on the botanical collections has improved their arrangement and increased the efficiency with which they can be used. Accessions were about 37 percent less than last year, but approximately the same as the average for the last 10 years. Twentyfive papers on current research problems were prepared and submitted for publication by members of the staff, and an additional 110, based in part on the collections of the National Herbarium, were published by outside investigators.

E. P. Killip, head curator since the organization of the department, retired on September 30, after being associated with the National Herbarium for 32 years. Jason R. Swallen was designated head curator on December 10. Dr. George A. Llano, associate curator, division of cryptogams, resigned early in February. Dr. Ernest H. Sohns was appointed associate curator in the division of grasses.

Among the larger and more important collections received by the Herbarium were exchanges as follows: 1,814 specimens from the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota, Colombia, collected by Dr. J. M. Idrobo and others, mostly from the Cordillera La Macarena; 1,509 specimens from Gray Herbarium, collected in Newfoundland and eastern United States; 1,043 from the California Academy of Sciences, collected by John Thomas Howell and others in California and western United States; 795 from the Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada, composed mostly of Canadian Arctic plants; 595 from the New York Botanical Garden, collected by Dr. R. R. Stewart in Kashmir; 1,273 from the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, containing material from Hawaii and the Pacific Islands; 576 from the Botanical Institute of the Academy of Science of the U.S. S. R., including exsiccatae of the flora of Russia and various specimens from Middle Asia; 689 from the Fundacion Miguel Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina, collected in southern Brazil by Dr. B. Rambo, S. J.; and 724 from the University of Kansas, mostly plants of Kansas, collected by W. H. Horr. Collected for the Museum by C. V. Morton, curator of ferns, were 2,610 specimens from
<<<46>>>
Honduras and 851 from West Virginia and Michigan. Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas presented to the Museum a collection of 184 mounted plants of Lebanon. Gifts with names requested included 2,209 plants from the Museo de Historia Natural “Javier Prado,” Lima, Peru, collected by Dr. Ramon Ferreyra; 662 from the University of Washington, collected in Mexico by Dr. L. R. Stanford and others; and 522 plants of Venezuela from Brother Ginés. A collection of 825 specimens obtained in Alaska and the Aleutian Islands by Dr. Louis H. Jordal was transferred from the Office of Naval Research, United States Department of the Navy.

Other important accessions of interest primarily to the individual divisions were the following:

Phanerogams.—1,811 specimens and 56 water-color paintings of Rhododendron, as a gift from the C. D. Beadle estate through The Biltmore Co., Asheville, N. C.; 1,091 specimens obtained in Mexico, the West Indies, and the United States, by Dr. O. E. White, as a gift from the Blandy Experimental Farm, Boyce, Va.; 219 Venezuelan specimens, containing many isotypes, collected by Dr. J. A. Steyermark, in exchange from the Chicago Natural History Museum.

Grasses.—302 specimens collected in Ecuador by M. Acosta Solis, from the Instituto Ecuadoriano de Ciencias Naturales, Quito, Ecuador; 183 Chilean specimens from Dr. H. Gunckel, Santiago, Chile, collected by him; 124 specimens from Eizi Matuda, Mexico, collected by him in that country; and 46 Brazilian grasses collected by Dr. Geraldo P. Pinto, from the Escola Agronomica da Bahia, Brazil. An important collection of Paraguay grasses, consisting of 225 specimens, transferred from the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, of the Department of State; as a gift, a collection of 80 grasses of Uruguay and Paraguay from Dr. Bernardo Rosengurtt.

Ferns.—942 specimens collected for the Museum by the curator, C. V. Morton, 29 collected in West Virginia, 80 in Michigan, and 833 in Honduras; as a gift from the Science Museum, Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica, 94 ferns collected by George R. Proctor; as gifts for identification, 120 specimens from the New York Botanical Garden collected in Ecuador by Dr. W. H. Camp; 82 Mexican ferns from Elizi Matuda; and 71 Mexican ferns from Dr. José Sanchez, of the Colegio Ignacio Zaragoza, Saltillo, Mexico.

Cryptogams.—In exchange: 500 mosses of Czechoslovakia from Zdenek Pilous, Hostinne, Czechoslovakia; 208 lichens of Washington from the University of Michigan; 170 lichens from Connecticut from Dr. Mason EK. Hale, Madison, Wis.; and 133 algae of the Hassler Expedition from the Farlow Herbarium of Harvard University. 
<<<47>>>
Major curating activities, involving the incorporation of new specimens into the herbarium and the repair and maintenance of those already cataloged, are summarized by the following figures:

1949-50 1950-51

Specimensmounted . ......... . 27,301 33, 488 Specimens repaired . . . eel era reality hod Ste sO 7, 592 Specimens stamped and relonied Evry ovate tN PRO 32, 104 Specimens incorporated in herbarium .. . . 52,003 32, 617 Photographs mounted’) .7).) 23 (hat). Os Sale Oe 730 1, 754

Little attention has previously been given to segregating cryptogamic types, so that until the current year only 92, all mosses, had been selected. During the year, however, 1,931 were segregated, including 1,148 algae, 533 hepaticae, 166 mosses, and 99 lichens. There are now 51,800 specimens in the type herbarium, 2,922 having been added this year. ‘They are divided among the divisions as follows: Phanerogams, 36,986; grasses, 9,716; ferns, 3,075; cryptogams, 2,023.

The expansion of the herbarium, begun last year, was completed by the preparation of new indexes to genera to precede each family. In addition, large indexes for three of the largest families have been placed in five herbarium hall.

The fruit collection of the division of phanerogams, increased by the addition of 16 specimens during the year, now consists of 1,048 separate fruit specimens. To the Hitchcock and Chase Library 71 publications on grasses were added, bringing the number of entries to 6,852. Additions to the species index numbered 389, making a total of 77,811 entries. Work was continued in segregating specimens of ferns on a geographical basis to facilitate their identification.

In the long-range program of reorganizing the cryptogamic collections along modern lines, some minor revisions have been undertaken. The United States Hepaticae were rearranged, following the monograph, “Hepaticae of North America,” by Frye and Clark (193747). Some of the algae were also rearranged, while John A. Stevenson, honorary curator, rearranged the general collection of fungi and also completed the cataloging of the W. H. Long collection of fungi.

Jason R. Swallen, head curator, and Dr. A. C. Smith, curator of the division of phanerogams, attended the Seventh International Botanical Congress held at Stockholm July 7-20, representing the Smithsonian Institution and several other institutions and societies. Dr. Smith presented an invitation paper on the flora and vegetation of Fiji, later published in the Scientific Monthly. Subsequently they spent several weeks at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and the Brit
<<<48>>>
ish Museum (Natural History), London, studying types and historic collections pertinent to their research problems.

Phanerogams.—Dr. A. C. Smith continued his regional revisions of Pacific Island plants, submitting for publication papers discussing the Rutaceae and Meliaceae of Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga; he also studied miscellaneous families of Fijian plants with a view to publication of various novelties and distribution records.

In his studies of the Acanthaceae of Colombia, E. C. Leonard essentially completed the second part, and the third and final part was well advanced. The first part was published during the year. The Venezuelan species of the family collected by Dr. J. A. Steyermark were studied and two papers dealing with them were prepared.

Dr. E. H. Walker devoted much time to a study of the flora of the Ryukyu Islands, completing his editorial work on a manuscript on the flora of Okinawa, prepared by resident botanists. His studies on the Myrsinaceae of Japan, Szechwan, and Malaysia were advanced during the year. On May 31 he left to spend 4 months investigating the flora of the:-Ryukyu Islands, having been assigned by the Smithsonian Institution to the Pacific Science Board, under contract with the United States Army. In addition to furnishing certain information desired by its sponsors this expedition will provide needed herbarium material from the Ryukyu Islands, a region much neglected by American botanists. ‘The collections made on the Perry Expedition nearly 100 years ago have never been adequately treated, and on his return Dr. Walker plans to study these in connection with this new material.

Dr. L. B. Smith continued his studies in the Bromeliaceae by advancing separate accounts of the family for Colombia, Bolivia, and Brazil. In the course of this work he twice visited the Gray Herbarium. The keys to the Colombian species have been nearly completed, and the second installment of the family treatment for the Flora Brasilica of Dr. F. C. Hoehne has been submitted for publication. Collaborative research on the genus Begonta with Dr. Bernice G. Schubert is being continued. Joint projects on the Colombian species of Violaceae (with Dr. Alvaro Fernandez) and Xyridaceae (with Dr. J. M. Idrobo) are being carried on, the latter approaching completion.

Miss Velva Rudd continued her revision of the American species of the genus Aeschynomene, now approximately half completed, and worked 4 days in this connection at the New York Botanical Garden. She also advanced her study of the vegetation of the Venezuelan Llanos, which project is somewhat more than half completed.

 Grasses.—Jason R. Swallen continued with the preparation of the manuscript on the Gramineae for the flora of Guatemala, which is in the course of publication by the Chicago Natural History Museum. 
<<<49>>>
Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, read final proof on the revised edition of the “Manual of Grasses of the United States,” published in January 1951, and continued work on various problems of special interest to her.

Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, continued his experimental work on bamboos, although there has been little opportunity for research on the taxonomy of this group.

Ferns.—During the year the principal research of Curator C. V. Morton has been on the ferns of Honduras. In March and April he spent 6 weeks collecting in Honduras, where he was the guest of the Escuela Agricola Panamericana of the United Fruit Co. Special thanks are due to the director, Dr. Wilson Popenoe, and the botanist, Dr. Louis O. Williams. The school, located at El Zamorano in a mountain valley some 25 miles from Tegucigalpa, is within easy reach of a number of varied ecological associations, particularly the cloudforest on the summit of Mount Uyuca, a relatively undisturbed area that is an ideal habitat for ferns. Collecting trips were made to other areas in the Departments of Morazan and El Paraiso. One of particular interest was to the cloud-forest area of the San Juancito Mountains, where he was the guest of officials of the New York and Honduras Rosario Mining Co. A longer trip was made to Lake Yojoa, in the Departments of Santa Barbara and Cortés; the vegetation of the region around the lake is similar to that of the tropical rain-forest region of the north coast of Honduras. There was also opportunity to collect in the mountains near Siquatepeque, in the Department of Comayagua. He was able to find and study in the field about one-third of the species of ferns of Honduras, and a number of species were added to the known flora. The preparation of a preliminary manuscript was completed in January. He submitted for publication two short papers with new combinations in Thelypteris and Hquisetum. Others on the nomenclature of Anetwm, Ananthacorus, and Rhipidopteris are in course of preparation. He also attended the annual summer field trip of the Northeastern Section of the Botanical Society of America, held in West Virginia.

Cryptogams.—Paul S. Conger prepared a paper, “The Present Status of Diatom Studies in the Gulf of Mexico Region,” at the request of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, summarizing all diatom studies of the Gulf region and indicating the needs of future investigation. He completed for publication his book “Mr. Thomas Christian, and the Diatomists of Richmond, Virginia,” a work begun in 1946. He prepared also a paper, “The Most Important Role of the Diatom, and Its Relation to Human Affairs.” His taxonomic work included study of a new species of plankton diatom from 
<<<50>>>
the Florida Keys, and the diatoms of Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries.

Dr. George A. Llano completed his paper on the cryptogams of the Alaskan Arctic region, in which he had the valued collaboration of several specialists in this work, especially of Dr. Alexander W. Evans (Cladonia), Dr. William Steere (mosses), Dr. R. M. Schuster (Hepaticae), and Dr. Mackenzie Lamb (Stereocaulon). His monograph of the lichen family Umbilicariaceae in the Western Hemisphere, completed during the preceding year, was published in October by the Office of Naval Research.

Research by visiting investigators.—F our investigators have been studying in the National Herbarium during the latter part of the fiscal year, utilizing the collections and being aided in their research by staff members. They are Dr. Ramon Ferreyra, of the University of San Marcos, Lima, Peru, and Dr. Jestis M. Idrobo, of the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota, Colombia, both John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellows; Dr. Hui-Lin Li, of National Taiwan University, Taipeh, Taiwan, China, assigned to the Smithsonian Institution by the Department of State; and Dr. Zoraida Luces de Febres, Division of Botany, Department of Agriculture, Caracas, Venezuela. The herbarium was also consulted by 67 other botanists, mostly from outside of Washington, in addition to the normal frequent use of the collections by members of the staffs of other Government agencies, such as Forest Service and Bureau of Plant Industry, Soils, and Agricultural Engineering of the Department of Agriculture, and the Fish and Wildlife Service and the Geological Survey of the Department of the Interior. 
<<<51>>>
Department of Geology

(W. F. Fosoac, Head Curator)

Substantial progress has been recorded by the Department of Geology in all the varied activities which enter into the gathering, maintenance, and study of scientific collections. An increase in the number of visitors and of inquiries directed to the department reflects the growing practical importance of the geological sciences and denotes an ever-widening recognition of the national geological collections as both an effective professional research tool and a source of vast academic information.

The increase of the geologic collections has been outstanding as a result of an effective program of field work undertaken by all divisions in the department.

Effective use has been made of new mineral accessions in the improvement of the appearance of older exhibits and in the installation of new displays, while marked results have been obtained in the renovating, redecorating, and rearranging of several exhibits of vertebrate paleontology.

Members of the staff participated with geologists of the U. S. Geological Survey as hosts to the Geological Society of America during its annual meeting in Washington. Hundreds of geologists and paleontologists visited the Museum to examine the collections and the special exhibits prepared for them and many extended their visits in order to study portions of the collections pertaining to their spheres of interest. Vertebrate paleontologists, moreover, held separate meetings in the Museum in order to have ready access to the collections.

Prior to the close of the year, Dr. Foshag was delegated as official representative of the Smithsonian Institution to the centennial celebration of the Austrian Geological Survey, and while in Europe he was detailed to make studies of minerals in museums at Paris, Vienna, and London.

Except for the return of Arthur L. Bowsher to the Museum rolls in August 1950 from temporary duty with the United States Geological Survey there were no changes in the scientific personnel.
<<<52>>>
Important additions to the collections through gifts and exchanges were:

Mineralogy and Petrology.—Among the 316 specimens in 75 accessions added to the general mineral collections were species new to the collection, received from the following donors: Huttonite (thorium silicate), from Prof. C. Osborne Hutton; bystromite (calcium magnesium antimonate), from Prof. Brian H. Mason; and pyrallolite (hydrous magnesium silicate), from Dr.Th.G.Sahama. New species added to the general collections through exchange included: schultenite, kolbeckite, larnite, bredigite, rankinite, scawtite, ironwollastonite, metaettringite, ferrogedrite, sabugalite, guadarramite, hydrocerussite, brommellite, arsenoklasite, hornesite, selenokobellite, odenite, yugawaralite, and kobeite.

Among the many fine specimens received as gifts during the past year, the following are unusual: Vanadinite, San Carlos Mine, Chihuahua, Mexico, from George B. Hinton; lapis-lazuli, Badakshan, Afghanistan, from the Afghan Ministry of Mines; brannerite, Morocco, and meerschaum, Turkey, from Dr. Mark C. Bandy; synthetic quartz crystals from the Bell Telephone Laboratories; uraninite and gummite, Ontario, from W. Bock; gratonite and other rare sulfosalts, Peru, from Cerro de Pasco Copper Corporation; twin crystal of quartz, Hot Springs, Ark., from William Fisher and Dr. Hugh D. Miser; uraniferous opal, north Saskatchewan, Canada, from D. H. Gorman; chrome-diopside, Kimberley, South Africa, from Mrs. Gladys B. Hannaford; hewettite, Paradox Valley, Colo., from Lowell S. Hilpert; stewartite, Pala, Calif., from Warren R. Jones; datolite, Westfield, Mass., from M. Z. Kissileff; villiaumite, Lake Magadi, Kenya, East Africa, from the Magadi Soda Company, Ltd.; creedite, Darwin, Calif., from Prof. Adolf Pabst; jadeite, Cloverdale, Calif., from Dr. John Peoples; parsonite, Grafton, N. H., from Louis Perloff ; rutherfordine, Phoenix, Ariz., from Alden R. Sampson; apophyllite, Goose Creek, Va., from Joel Shappirio; cassiterite, wolframite, and stibnite, Siam, from Vija Sreshthaputra, Chief of the Siamese Geological Survey; fluorite, Topaz Mountain, Utah, from Fred Staats; and emerald, Ural Mountains, U.S.S.R., from Harry Winston, Inc.

Through the Roebling Fund 89 specimens were obtained, among which is a collection of 18 specimens of euclase from Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais, Brazil, that includes some of the finest known specimens of this mineral.

Through the Canfield Fund 35 specimens were obtained. Outstanding among these are some vanadinite crystal groups from Mexico, two very fine tourmaline crystals from Brazil, a large and perfectly formed 
<<<53>>>
manganotantalite from Brazil, simpsonite from Brazil, an outstanding group of proustite crystals from Chile, a fine ruby crystal from Burma, a very good specimen of creedite from Bolivia, a large aquamarine crystal from Brazil, a fine group of quartz crystals from Japan, and an opalized cedar cone from Nevada.

Of the 417 gems added to the collection, one, an waits 71.20carat aquamarine from Ceylon, was purchased through the Chamberlain Fund, while, through the Roebling Fund were purchased a very fine 110.8-carat pink tourmaline from Manchuria, and three stones of euclase weighing 3.47, 8.86, and 12.54 carats, respectively. Received as gifts were a very fine collection of cultured pearls, consisting of two strands and 395 individual pearls, gift of K. Mikimoto & Co., Ltd., of Japan; a collection of boules of synthetic sapphire and spinel from the Linde Air Products Co.

In all, 60 specimens of ores were added to the collection. Received as gifts were copper ores from Peru from the Cerro de Pasco Copper Corporation; uranium and vanadium ores from Utah from W. C. Paterson; chrome ores from Pakistan from Franklin W. Wolf; manganese ores from India, from the Central Provinces Manganese Ore Co., Ltd.; and tin and tungsten ores from Burma from Andrew V. Corry.

Dr. Stuart H. Perry continued his interest in the meteorite collection by donating seven meteorites, among them a newly found iron from Mayodan, N. C., weighing 14.46 kilograms; a 205-gram individual of the Benton, New Brunswick, Canada, fall; and slices of the Laketon, Tex.; Pierceville, Kan.; and Wilmot, Kan., meteorites. A small sample of the Maziba, Uganda, Africa, meteorite was presented by John S. Albanese.

Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Many important accessions of fossil invertebrates and plants came to the Museum as gifts, such as: 719 slides of types of Mesozoic and Cenozoic Ostracoda and Foraminifera, from Dr. C. I. Alexander; 20 specimens, holotype and paratypes of Tertiary Foraminifera from Trinidad, received from Dr. P. Bronnimann; 1,000 specimens of Upper Miocene invertebrates from §. E. Crumb; 38 types of Ordovician trilobites from Virginia, from Dr. William Evitt; 48 type specimens of Mississippian coral from Utah from James Parks; 200 specimens of Triassic invertebrates from the Alps from Dr. Franco Rasetti; 1 large stump of a palm tree from the Cretaceous of Texas, from Mrs. J. H. Renfro; 600 specimens of Paleozoic and Mesozoic invertebrate fossils from the British Isles, from Dr. Alwyn Williams, Glasgow, Scotland; 900 specimens of late Tertiary plants from Creede, Colo., presented by the late Belle K. Stewart ; 93 type slides of Foraminifera from the Eocene Aquia formation of Maryland and Virginia, from Miss Elaine Shifilet ; 
<<<54>>>
11 paratype specimens of Foraminifera from the Pliocene of Japan, from Dr. Kiyoshi Asano; 24 type specimens of Foraminifera from the Tertiary of Trinidad, presented by Dr. P. Bronnimann.

More than 100 specimens of Mississippian and Pennsylvanian crinoids from Oklahoma were purchased through the Springer Fund from Harrell Strimple. These specimens include many types and exceptionally well-preserved individual items. As in previous years, the Walcott Fund made it possible for the division of paleontology and paleobotany to send out several field parties. The collections thus made include materials obtained by Dr. G. A. Cooper and W. T. Allen in west Texas and by Dr. Cooper in Virginia and Tennessee.

Vertebrate paleontology.—Again this year, probably the most noteworthy addition to the collections of vertebrate fossils is the excellent material of the giant ground sloth, Megatheriwm, secured by the curator, Dr. C. L. Gazin, and Franklin Pearce, in Panama. This includes three well-preserved skulls and abundant other skeletal material, a quantity sufficient to insure complete representation in the mounting of a composite skeleton for future exhibition in the National Museum.

A highly significant addition to the collections is the series of beautifully preserved middle Eocene fish secured by the associate curator, Dr. D. H. Dunkle, and Mr. Pearce, from the Green River shales of Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming. Of considerable scientific importance is a series of ray fin fishes from lower and middle Triassic horizons in Idaho and Montana, collected by Dr. Bernard Kummel and transferred from the United States Geological Survey. Two accessions from the River Basin Surveys, materials collected by Dr. T. E. White, are also deserving of special mention. These include some 80 fossil mammals from the Wind River Eocene of Wyoming and from the Oligocene of Montana and North Dakota, and, in particular, a Paleocene creodont skull from North Dakota and a Cretaceous plesiosaur skull from the Pierre shale of South Dakota.

The large exhibition cases in the mineral hall are being remodeled and rearranged to create alcoves. In one has been placed a display, Minerals of South West Africa, made up of the choicest specimens from the Kegel Collection, acquired last year; in another is a group devoted to examples of quartz; and in a central alcove, developed about the crystal ball as a centerpiece, are shown Color in the Mineral Kingdom on one side and Form in the Mineral Kingdom on the other. Two alcoves remain to be similarly set up. 
<<<55>>>
The Otis Beall Kent, Edna Ward-Capps, and Mary Vaux Walcott bead collections, placed in special cases at the entrance to the mineral hall, have proved to be very popular.. Other outstanding new exhibits are those showing natural and cultured pearls and synthetic gems. The appearance of the gem collection was enhanced by rearranging and expanding the display. A number of very fine specimens were also added to the systematic mineral collection.

The Camarasaurus skeleton placed in the exhibit hall in 1947 was, following completion of its case, opened for exhibition this past year, as was the slab of Buettneria skulls, preparation of which was completed in the preceding year.

Through the particular efforts of the division artist, William D. Crockett, the wall cases in the main hall of vertebrate paleontology have been modernized, largely by the use of background arrangement, the introduction of color and light, and a more effective distribution of specimens. Preliminary models and background paintings have been prepared by him for two new exhibits, the Nature of Vertebrate Fossils and the Kinds of Vertebrate Fossils. A model of a special type of display case, known as a “mirrorscope,” utilizing diorama lay-outs, was completed this year.

In the lapidary shop, 68 meteorites were cut, polished, and etched; 428 rocks, ores, and minerals were cut and polished; 145 thin sections were cut and prepared; and 141 plaster bases for exhibition specimens were cast.

In invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany the entire collection of Coelenterata (sponges, graptolites, and corals) was overhauled and arranged alphabetically by genera. Many hundreds of pictures were made for the card-catalog of Foraminifera, which was started by Dr. Cushman.

In cooperation with the Panamanian Government, Museum paleontologists, assisted by laborers from nearby pueblo Pesé, in western Panama, remove fossil bones of Pleistocene ground sloth, Megatherium, from mud surrounding a large spring. Surface of uncovered bone is first hardened with gum arabic, then coated with tissue to prevent protective jacket (plaster of Paris and burlap) from adhering to bone. A composite skeleton of this giant extinct mammal, which once ranged from the Argentine to the southern United States, is being assembled for exhibit in the National Museum. 
<<<56>>>

<<<57>>>

<<<58>>>
Most of the boxes of the Cushman collection of Foraminifera were unpacked during the year, only about 40 of the more than 300 remaining to be opened, and with the acquisition of special cases, facilities are now on hand for the proper storage of the national collection of Foraminifera. In addition, the Calvert collection of fossil invertebrates was rearranged so that it can be placed in various stratigraphic and biologic collections, and plans are being made for a more systematic arrangement of the Cenozoic materials.

The laboratory of vertebrate paleontology was engaged largely in preparing the giant sloth remains from Panama for exhibition in the Panama Museum and in the United States National Museum.

Mineralogy and petrology.—The study of Meso-American jade objects in collections in Guatemala, begun under a cooperative project of the Instituto de Antropologia e Historia, Guatemala, and the Smithsonian Institution, was continued by Dr. W. F. Foshag, head curator, Five chemical analyses on selected examples yield, for the first time, an accurate mineralogical characterization of this material. The information obtained is not only of archeological, but also mineralogical interest.

The study of the development of Paricutin Volcano, Mexico, is nearing completion. A pictorial record of the history of this volcano, for permanent preservation in the National Archives, the first complete one of a volcano, was prepared to show its growth, from the first half hour of its life to its final establishment as a mature volcanic apparatus, including all significant changes and such features as types of lavas, fumaroles, and electrical phenomena.

Associate Curator Switzer worked with the head curator on a mineralogical study of jadeite, making special use of X-ray techniques, and expanding the work to include important new finds of this mineral in California. He spent two weeks in the Iron Springs district of southwestern Utah, completing field work initiated under the United States Geological Survey on the problem of the genesis of the iron ores in that important mining area; in this connection he made chemical or petrographic analyses of more than 600 specimens collected there. At the request of the Geological Survey, he also started the preparation of a monograph dealing in detail with all of the uranium minerals. The work is being done at the National Museum because of the completeness of its reference collection. An additional 200 photographs were added to the reference catalog of X-ray powder diffraction patterns of minerals.

Associate Curator Henderson, in his investigations of the composition and classification of iron meteorites, completed the study of 
<<<59>>>
hexahedrites and nickel-poor ataxites, and continued his study of the relationships and distribution of certain inclusions in metallic meteorites, such as cohenite, schreibersite, and troilite.

Dr. Stuart H. Perry, associate in mineralogy, continued his metallographic studies of iron meteorites, and Dr. John P. Marble, associate in mineralogy, continued his investigations on the absolute measurement of geologic time, including the analyses of various radioactive minerals.

Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—The curator, Dr. G. A. Cooper, completed the specific descriptions of all the pentamerids, rhynchonellids, and part of the punctate orthids, representing about two-thirds of the systematic portion of his Ordovician research project. All the plates have been prepared and the stratigraphic discussion for this paper is about half finished. He submitted for publication his study of the Cambrian stratigraphy of Caborca, northwest Sonora, Mexico, and is preparing one of the post-Cambrian and another on the Permian of the Glass Mountains, Tex.

With Museum Aide W. T. Allen he spent several weeks during the summer of 1950 collecting from and studying the Wolfcamp formation, the lowest portion of the Permian beds of west Texas. The collection returned to Washington included many specimens cracked directly out of the massive Wolfcamp limestone, as well as many large blocks containing silicified specimens for etching. Later in the summer Dr. G. A. Cooper, in the company of Dr. B. N. Cooper, of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, spent several days collecting Ordovician fossils from the Catawba Valley section near Blacksburg, Va. Subsequently, a thick sequence of Ordovician rocks also was examined by Dr. Cooper with Dr. R. B. Neuman, of Gatlinsburg, Tenn., during a brief trip to the west side of the Great Smoky Mountains in eastern Tennessee. At the close of the fiscal year Dr. Cooper, assisted by Associate Curator A. L. Bowsher, was continuing his collecting in the Wolfcamp Hills in the general vicinity of Marathon, Tex., in order to determine the areal extent of the Wolfcamp formation and to make collections in the extreme southwestern and northeastern parts of the Glass Mountains.

Under a contract with the Office of Naval Research, Associate Curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr., made a large collection of the living Arctic Foraminifera near Point Barrow, Alaska, during the summer of 1950, in connection with his study of Arctic Recent and Pleistocene Foraminifera. In late April and May of 1951 he collected foraminiferal samples with the cooperation of Max B. Payne, of Bakersfield, Calif., in the Moreno and Panoche formations in Fresno County, Calif., and with Dr. Edward Bailey, of the United States Geological Survey, in the Franciscan series, in Santa Clara County, Calif. In collaboration 
<<<60>>>
with Dr. Helen Tappan Loeblich, in his study of this material from the Gulf Coastal Plain, he has mounted and identified over 6,000 type slides of lower Cretaceous Foraminifera. The work is being aided immeasurably by Mrs. Sally D. Lee, who has already prepared several hundred shaded camera-lucida drawings to illustrate the species.

Most of the line drawings and photographs have been made, and the text of Associate Curator A. L. Bowsher’s “Revision of the Actinocrinidae” is being completed. Some of the field work for his project on the bioherms and stratigraphy of the Mississippian rocks of New Mexico has been finished, and the collections are being studied.

Associate Curator David Nicol has published four papers this year on various pelecypods and has made progress on a paper discussing the pelecypod genus E’chinochama, and on his study of a suborder of the pelecypods, being made for a cooperative undertaking known as the “Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology,” sponsored by the Geological Society of America.

Dr. J. Brookes Knight, research associate in invertebrate paleontology, revised a considerable part of his reclassification of the major categories of the gastropods, completed his study of the Wolfcampian bellerophonts, and made some slight progress in his study of the Permian gastropods.

Dr. R. S. Bassler, associate in paleontology, has practically completed his volume on Bryozoa for the “Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology.”

Vertebrate paleontology.—During the first part of 1951 the curator, Dr. C. L. Gazin, conducted a second expedition to the interior of western Panama, accompanied by F. L. Pearce. The particular objective of this season’s investigations was to obtain as wide a representation as possible of the Pleistocene fauna of the country. The bulk of the materials collected was again of the giant ground sloth, Megatherium, but a good representation was obtained of a mastodon skeleton and, in addition, fragmentary remains were found of a peccary, giant armadillo, andabird. Except for Megatherium, these are all in addition to Toxodon, glyptodont, horse, deer, capybara, and turtle secured the year before. All this year’s collection was obtained from deposits adjacent to large springs near the town of Pesé. Asin the previous year, the expedition was carried on in cooperation with officials of the Panamanian Government, and, in particular, the Muséo Nacional de Panama, where again a part of the collection will be returned. Before the end of the present year, Curator Gazin left Washington for a short collecting season in the lower Eocene Knight and Paleocene Almy deposits of western Wyoming, continuing a pro-

969583524 
<<<61>>>
gram of investigation and study of early Tertiary faunas in the Rocky Mountain region interrupted temporarily by field work in Panama.

In addition, he published, jointly with R. Lee Collins of the University of Tennessee, a study of the Miocene land mammals of the Chesapeake Bay region, and he completed a study of the Pleistocene mammalian fauna found associated with human remains at Melbourne, Fla. He made some progress on his monograph of the early Tertiary tillodonts and started a study of a Pleistocene mammalian microfauna from a fissure deposit in Strait Canyon, Va.

Continuing field work initiated prior to the close of the last fiscal year, the associate curator, Dr. D. H. Dunkle, and F. L. Pearce, preparator, of the division laboratory, renewed careful stratigraphic collecting from the Eocene Green River shale formation in the states of Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming. A collection of some 500 specimens was obtained that includes fossil plants, invertebrates, and mammals, as well as the exquisitely preserved fishes so common in the formation. In his study of this fauna, undertaken with Dr. Bobb Schaeffer, of the American Museum of Natural History, the three fossil genera of aphredoderid fishes are being compared in morphological detail with the living representatives of the family. In his study of the late Mesozoic origins of the teleostean fishes, the serial sectioning and enlarged wax reconstruction of the skull of a leptolepid fish from the Jurassic of Cuba is nearly complete. He completed a brief study on new Western Hemisphere occurrences of some pristid shark remains, and made considerable progress on the first adequate description of the genotypic Devonian arthrodire, Dinichthys herzeri.

Research by visiting investigators.—Among the more than 750 researchers, students, and scientists using the national collections in the course of their work were the following:

David Barnes, of the United States Geological Survey, spent several months. going over the mineral collections while investigating the luminescence of minerals in the infrared portion of the spectrum.

Dr. Teng-Chien Yen, principal investigator for the Office of Naval Research, who has been studying fresh-water molluscan faunas of Mesozoic and Tertiary ages in the Rocky Mountain States, reports completion of several papers now in press. He spent 2 months in Wyoming and Montana collecting fossils. In his work Dr. Yen is placing special emphasis on the paleoecology of molluscan faunas.

Dr. T. W. Amsden, John Hopkins University, started the study of the St. Clair Silurian brachiopods of Arkansas. Dr. Franco Rasetti, of the same university, borrowed specimens on several occasions and studied types at the Museum while preparing a monograph of the Cambrian trilobites from British Coloumbia, which is being published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Dr, Norman 
<<<62>>>
D. Newell, American Museum of Natural History, is monographing a large collection of Permian pelecypods belonging to the Museum. Dr. Harry B. Whittington is preparing a monograph on the silicified Ordovician trilobites collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper near Strasburg, Va.

Dr. B. N. Cooper, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, completed his monograph on Ordovician trilobites started in 1946. Dr. H. V. Andersen, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, La., worked on Recent brackish-water Foraminifera in the Museum.

Dr. Helen M. Muir-Wood, keeper of the brachiopods in the British Museum (Natural History), spent 4 months at the Museum. She is preparing a section on the productid brachiopods for the “Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology.” During her visit she and Dr. Cooper collaborated on three short papers. One of these cleared up a number of homonyms among the brachiopods, a second described an interesting and unusual African Jurassic brachiopod, and the third is to describe a number of new genera among the productid brachiopods. Dr. George Ubaghs, Liége, Belgium, and Dr. Herta S. Doreck, Stuttgart-Degerloch, Germany, studied crinoids in the Springer Collection for about 10 days in late April and early May. Dr. Irene Crespin, Bureau of Mineral Resources, Canberra, Australia, spent about 14 days studying Foraminifera.

Dr. T. E. White, of the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys, made use of the collections of fossil vertebrate animals in his work on material collected from various reservoir areas, particularly of the Oligocene from the Three Forks region of Montana. Dr. Jean R. Hough, of the United States Geological Survey, also made extensive use of the collections in her study of Oligocene mammals. More than 30 other vertebrate paleontologists from other institutions in this country and abroad visited the National Museum to study specimens in connection with their researches. 
<<<63>>>
Department of Engineering and Industries

(Frank A. TayLor, Head Curator)

Noteworthy in the research work of the department were the completion by S. H. Oliver of his descriptive catalog of the cycle collection, Jacob Kainen’s paper on the halftone screen, the classification and documentation by William N. Watkins of a group of Guatemalan woods, and the reclassifying by Grace L. Rogers of the fiber collection.

The new gallery for the display of special exhibits of photographs was practically completed, and new exhibits were installed in several sections.

The start of construction of the three-floor storage facility in the southwest court of the Arts and Industries Building brings within sight a solution of the immediate storage problems of the divisions of the department, for it will relieve the exhibition halls of a large volume of material better suited for reference collections, and will clear the way for the improvement of exhibits and the better use of the public halls.

Among the changes in staff during the year was the retirement of Fred C. Reed, associate curator of manufactures and of agricultural industries, after 28 years of service in the department. In his early years with the old division of mechanical technology, Mr. Reed performed skillful and ingenious work as a modelmaker and exhibits preparator. Later his efforts to organize the diverse mechanical collections and to house the reference collections of the division of engineering were very effective. His greatest interest was in the history of the mechanical hand crafts, of which he had a wide knowledge. In this connection he prepared several exhibits of crafts in the form of shops to show how much could be done with this type of exhibit in extremely limited space, and to suggest the effectiveness of a “street of shops” if the space should become available. Mr. Reed’s ability to recognize and identify tools, instruments, and machines, to define obscure trade terms and names, and to support this information with authority, was a valuable asset to the department. He was developing support for the improvement of the agricultural collections when the failure of his health necessitated his retirement. He retires with the satisfaction of having enjoyed a full, useful, and constructive museum career.
<<<64>>>
Burlie Parks, museum aide in the Division of Crafts and Industries, retired because of physical disability, and William E. Bridges, museum aide, was promoted and transferred from the division of medicine and public health to fill the vacated position.

Crafts and indusiries.—In two important accessions 345 authentic woods of Surinam were received in exchange from the Hout-Instituut, Netherlands, and 19 United States woods came from the State University of New York, College of Forestry, as an addition to the woods already presented under its open gift known as Wood Technology Project I. A collection of 407 wooden blocks used as braiding and embroidery patterns in the nineteenth century was received from Edna Plummer, and 15 coverlet drafts of the period 1831-1853, from Lelah Allison. E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., Inc., prepared and presented an exhibit showing the manufacture, properties, and versatility of nylon yarn. Mr. Reed selected 289 harness fittings from the shop of the late W. J. Moore, presented by Mrs. W. J. Moore. W. F. Jeffers presented 126 tools used in the same shop.

Engineering.—The National Bureau of Standards transferred its collection of 155 pieces of historical electronics and electrical apparatus, including a radiosonde and a radiosonde re-emitter, identified as the first developed at the Bureau. Twenty-three early electrical measuring instruments representing European and American makers and including both power plant and laboratory instruments were presented by the Weston Electrical Instrument Corp. The American Screw Co. presented 13 inventors’ models and machines, representing the development of wood-screw-making machinery, that had been preserved by Dr. Philip Bishop and Clayton R. Burt, president of Potter & Johnston Co. Chandler Hovey presented a model of the International J class yacht Rainbow, which successfully defended the America’s Cup in 1934. Eight small scale models of early American automobiles were received from A. J. Koveleski and 12 hand-colored prints of similar subjects from Clarence P. Hornung. A Columbia bicycle of 1896, with nickel-plated frame, elaborately decorated with overlays of gold-plated leaves and gem stones, was presented by Col. N. J. Wiley. Robert B. Applebee and Ralph E. Cropley continued to add to the collection of photographs and notes on watercraft.

Graphic arts.—The most important accession of the year was a gift by the Sun Chemical Corp., through the Lithographers National Association, of 23 prints from the Fuchs & Lang collection of historical 
<<<65>>>
lithographs, among which are works by Prout, Isabey, Ingres, Vernet, Daumier, Delacroix, Fantin-Latour, and Brangwyn. R. R. Donnelley & Sons Co. presented materials comprising a complete technical exhibit showing, step-by-step, the process of halftone reproduction. Also received was a collection of 71 fine pictorial photographs from members of the American Society of Photographic Art, representing work in control process printing by many noted photographers. A Cineograph motion picture projector made by the Sigmund Lubin Co. in 1907 was presented by Charles E. Milbourne, Jr., and Stanley A. Milbourne, through Mrs. Charles E. Milbourne in memory of her husband. Two prints by contemporary artists were purchased through the Dahlgreen Fund—‘Steam Shovel,” a wood engraving by Leopoldo Mendez of Mexico, and “Refuge,” by Seong Moy, an American artist of Chinese ancestry. Mendez, one of Mexico’s outstanding printmakers, used this print as a political cartoon to be reproduced in a newspaper. Seong Moy’s wood cut is a fine example of the recent practice of using heavy pigments in block printing.

The exhibit of early spinning machinery was revised and the exhibits of weft dyeing and tied-dyed work were renovated and reinstalled. A display of Paisleys, the first of a number of special temporary exhibits of textiles, was set up. New exhibits of nylon and examples of the work of sewing machine attachments were installed.

A small but effective display of the de Forest three-element electron tube was prepared and installed, and a similar one of early automobiles was arranged with the scale models and colored prints. Revision of the exhibits relating to phonographs was begun and the construction of panels in two exhibition cases was partially completed. The exhibit showing the development of the Giffard-Sellers steam injector was renovated. An atomic-energy exhibit to be prepared in cooperation with the Atomic Energy Commission is being planned.

The new photographic print exhibition gallery was used for the first time in May, and is being completed by the installation of overhead lighting. The Eickemeyer and Petrocelli print collections were combined in a one-case exhibit on one side of the gallery.

The annual International Photography-in-Science Competition, held jointly under the auspices of the Scientific Monthly, was displayed in the foyer of the Natural History Building, following which this collection of scientific photographs was sent on a Nation-wide tour to such institutions as the University of Tennessee, General Foods Corp., University of Florida, Northwestern University, New York State College of Forestry, Toma State College, and State Teachers College, Minn. 
<<<66>>>
This small exhibit, illustrating development of threeelement vacuum tube criginally patented by Lee H. de Forest, combines historic prototypes previously donated by the inventor with recently acquired material, and commemorates an important eyent in the Nation’s scientific and industrial progress. 
<<<67>>>

<<<68>>>
Mary Nimmo Moran Charles B. Rogers Samuel Bookatz Rudolf von Huhn Dorothy W. hea Marguerite Kumm

The Printmakers Eleanor Coen Max Kahn

Hans Jelinek Worden Day Jack Perlmutter Herb Fichter .

Grapuic Arts

30 etchings

36 prints

27 lithographs

26 linoleum prints

79 prints

26 wood cuts

25 color lithographs 21 color lithographs 25 wood cuts

25 prints

22 lithographs

45 engravings

1950

June 26—-September 4 September 5—October 1 October 2—October 29 October 30—November 26

November 27—January 1 1951

January 2—January 28 January 29—February 25 February 26—-March 25 March 26—April 22 April 23—-May 20

May 21-June 17

June 18-July 15

Second Interservice Photography Contest

American Society of Photographic Art

U.S. Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service

Metropolitan Camera Club Council, Inc.

National Photographic Society

Franklin I. Jordan Smithsonian Institution and the Scientific Monthly

Adolf Fassbender Vladimir Telberg Michael Pitcairn Gordon C. Abbott Roman Vishniac

60 pictorial photographs

79 pictorial photographs

56 dye-transfer prints in color 99 prints of 1950 travel show

60 monochrome color prints and 56 color transparencies

50 pictorial photographs

73 scientific photographic prints of the 4th annual International Photographyin-Science Competition

78 pictorial photographs

60 pictorial photographs

67 pictorial photographs

50 pictorial photographs

53 pictorial photographs

1950 July

August September October

November December

1951

January January

February March April May June 
<<<69>>>
The Lithographers National Association has almost completed its project of preparing and installing an exhibit representing the offset lithographic industry. Many early examples of offset printing have been gathered, and technical exhibits demonstrating step-by-step methods of production are nearing completion. Russell T. Limbach was commissioned to prepare an exhibit showing step-by-step methods used in preparing an artist’s lithograph.

Eugene J. Fite, assistant curator, worked out most of the details of a series of traveling exhibits on the making of fine prints, having prepared copy for the entire exhibit, and blocks and plates for most of the print processes. Step-by-step photographs of methods are planned.

During the year 24 special exhibits of the graphic arts and photography were held.

The laboratories of the Divisions of Crafts and Industries, and Engineering, are better equipped than ever before. The stored collections are temporarily disarranged in part to clear the storage court for construction there. Thus, the modest amount of exhibition improvement accomplished is creditable in view of the work devoted to the rearrangement of collections by the aides.

Work was revived on cutting woods for the study collections in the Division of Crafts and Industries, and 3,629 specimens were processed, including duplicates for distribution.

Several automobiles, bicycles, and other large items in the engineering exhibits were repaired and extensive routine preservation was performed in applying insecticides and fungus-proofing, tightening and replacing parts of machines, making frames and fixtures, packing and wrapping specimens.

Rearrangement and elimination of obsolete material provided additional storage space in the graphic arts reference collections.

William N. Watkins, curator of crafts and industries, concluded his study and classification of a set of Guatemalan woods, and began a study of woods used in xylography to determine the species used and the date when a substitute for Turkish boxwood was first used. Microscopic identification has been made of some early Smithsonian engraving blocks of known date, and available history studied to detect discrepancies. The work is approximately half completed. 
<<<70>>>
Grace L. Rogers completed the classification of the textile fabrics in the reference collection of textiles and has started to classify the textile fibers and to produce a permanent microscope specimen of each. Revision of Smithsonian publication No. 3056, “The Servant in the House,” a historical study of the sewing machine by Dr. Frederick L. Lewton, long out of print but still much in demand, is about 40 percent completed. The investigation to determine the best methods for the care and preservation of old textiles is progressing slowly, owing to the meagerness of the information available.

The study of the evolution of the farm tractor was stopped by the illness and later retirement of Fred C. Reed.

S. H. Oliver completed his descriptive catalog of the cycle collection, to be issued as a Museum bulletin. Kenneth M. Perry continued his study of the early electrical measuring instruments in the collection and completed identification of a number of the instruments. The addition of 52 instruments to the collection in the last 2 years has increased greatly the scope of this study.

Jacob Kainen, curator of graphic arts, studied early photomechanical printing in connection with his investigation of the origin and development of photomechanical halftone processes. The results of this work will eventually be combined with a descriptive catalog of the halftone collections in the Division of Graphic Arts.

Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator, continued his detailed examination of the cameras and patent models in the collection and his study of patent specifications and histories, for the purpose of preparing a descriptive catalog of the still-photography equipment in the collections.

Research by visiting investigators.—In addition to the use made of the collections by other Government agencies, 1,908 investigators, students, and writers found the collections and the assistance of the staff of value in the furtherance of their inquiries and research. Their activities ranged from the identification of old tools and machines, and the comparison of wood samples, to a systematic search for documentary material in the collections of engravings and photographs. 
<<<71>>>
Department of History |

(MenpEL L. PETERsoN, Acting Head Curator)

The comprehensive work of refurbishing the exhibition halls and storerooms was continued. Redecoration of the navy court was completed, important progress was made on the installation of the gold coins of the Straub Collection, and an outstanding gift of historical material received during the year, the Adams-Clement Collection of objects relating to the Adams family of Massachusetts, was placed on exhibit. ;

Members of the staff published several articles, and submitted others for publication.

Several major changes in the departmental staff occurred. Charles Carey, acting head curator, retired after 30 years of Government service. Mrs. Catherine L. Manning, assistant curator of philately, retired after 27 years in that division. Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., philatelic staff columnist for the New York World Telegram and Sun, was appointed to succeed Mrs. Manning.

The most important collection received by the department during the past year, the gift of Miss Mary Louisa Adams Clement, was the Adams-Clement Collection of objects relating to the families of John Adams and John Quincy Adams. It represents six generations of the Adams family and contains costumes, jewelry, portraits, silverware, china, books, and papers. Among the last, many of which are unpublished, are letters from President John Adams; his wife, Abigail; President John Quincy Adams; and his wife, Louisa Catherine.

A furnished miniature house showing the way of life of a large and affluent American family living in the period 1900-14 was presented to the Museum by Miss Faith Bradford. The house contains 23 rooms and is completely furnished with over 1,500 separate items.

Received from the Commission on Renovation of the Executive Mansion were four mantels from the White House. It is proposed that they be used in period rooms to enhance the exhibition of the dresses of the First Ladies of the White House.

The naval collections were increased by the receipt from the Department of the Navy of four scale models of United States naval vessels—
<<<72>>>
the battleship Missouri, the cruiser Brooklyn of the Spanish-American War period, an LSM, and an LCI. The model of the Missouri, was built by Gibbs & Cox, naval architects of New York, and is one of the finest and most complete models ever built in this country.

Also received from the Department of the Navy was a collection of 164 pieces of naval ordnance material, principally of the World War II period.

Outstanding among the numismatic accessions were the medal press and tools used by Edward Stabler, die-sinker and seal engraver of Sandy Spring, Md., 1794-1883, the gift of Mrs. Maurice J. Stabler. His seals and presses for State and city governments, corporations, and courts of law were once widely circulated throughout the country. He also furnished the various departments of the national government at Washington, including the Smithsonian Institution, with seals.

The medal collection was enhanced by the gift of Leander McCormick-Goodhart of 118 medals commemorating the victories of Admiral Edward Vernon in 1739-41.

Paul A. Straub, continuing his interest in the growth of the national numismatic collections, added 25 gold and 7 silver coins to his collection, which came to the Museum in 1949,

The regular programs of the Universal Postal Union and the United States Post Office Department increased the philatelic collections by some 900 specimens.

The division of civil history installed the Adams-Clement Collection jointly with the National Collection of Fine Arts, to which the Adams family portraits had been given, and installed the Bradford miniature house in the west hall.

The navy court was completely redecorated and fluorescent lighting installed. When the naval exhibit is completed, it will portray chronologically by means of models, prints, and other objects the historical development of the United States Navy from its earliest beginnings.

The installation of the Paul A. Straub Collection of gold coins is virtually complete and the collection of 2,000 modern coins on loan from the American Numismatic Association was entirely relabeled and rearranged.

The comprehensive program of overhauling exhibitions and storage areas, begun 2 years ago, was continued with the refinishing of exhibition cases, the, rearrangement of exhibition and storage specimens, the fumigating, cleaning, and coating of specimens. 
<<<73>>>
Miss Margaret Brown’s manuscript, “The Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House,” was accepted by the Smithsonian Institution for publication, and she began work on a revision of the “Catalog of Washington Relics in the National Museum,” which was published in 1915 and which is now out of print.

Mendel L. Peterson, associate curator of the divisions of military and naval history, continued his investigations in little-explored fields of United States military and naval history. During the first 2 weeks of June 1951, he participated in an expedition that explored three historical shipwrecks on the Florida Keys. The wrecks, dating from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, yielded a collection of objects which will form the basis of special exhibits in the Museum and articles in naval history journals. He also published three papers during the year: “The Army Medal of Honor,” “U. S. Army Epaulettes 1814-72,” and “The Marine Corps Brevet Medal.” Stuart M. Mosher continued his studies on the specimens in the original mint collection. Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., has completed research on the stamp printing plates of Nicaragua, to be published in the Collectors Club Philatelist, and on the Matilda Newport issue and stampless covers on Liberia, to be published in the American Philatelist.

Research by visiting investigaiors.—A_ substantial amount of aid was given outside investigators, of whom 1,771 consulted the collections. Outstanding among the research in the national collections was that carried on by Messrs. O’Cenesack and Buchanan, artists of the Office of the Quartermaster General, Department of the Army, who spent 214 months in the Department making water-color drawings of scarce United States Army uniforms and uniform accessories. The results of their work will be published as color prints by the Department of the Army. Miss Nancy Groves, graduate student at the University of Wisconsin, did special research in the collection of Quaker costumes in the custody of the division of civil history.

Extensive research was conducted by Walter Breen, of New York City, on American coins in the national numismatic collection, and his findings are now being published in the numismatic journals. In addition, museums in Peru, Mexico, England, Sweden, and Canada were supplied with detailed information on practices of accessioning, cataloging, collating, and preserving specimens.

The usual information services were extended by the department to other Government agencies during the year, including the Department of the Army; Department of the Navy; Post Office Department; Treasury Department, Bureau of the Mint; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Library of Congress; National Archives; Department of State; Department of Justice; Bureau of Engraving and Printing; and the National Park Service. 
<<<74>>>
Accessions During Fiscal Year 1950-51

(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented or were transferred, in accordance with law, by Bureaus of the Government)

AxpsoTt, Dr. Donawp P., Pacific Grove,| AreHan Ministry or Mines, Kabul,

Calif.: Approximately 500 copepods (190352). (See also under Hopkins Marine Station.)

AxspoTt, GorDOoN C., Taxco, Guerrero, Mexico: 50 pictorial prints for special exhibition during May (190650, loan).

Axgpott Funp, W. L., Smithsonian Institution: 393 birds from Denmark

(187482) ; 344 birds and 54 mammals (188056) ; 2,427 bird skins, 12 bird skeletons, 1 mammal, 34 insects, 1 leech, and mollusk specimens from Colombia, collected by M. A. Carriker, Jr. (188736) ; 526 bird skins, 6 bird skeletons, 6 birds (alcoholic specimens), reptiles, and amphibians, 11 insects, a diplopod, 5 mollusks, and 2 crabs from Panama, collected by Dr. A. Wetmore and Watson M. Perrygo (190544) ; 1,058 bird skins, 41 bird skeletons, 2 sets of birds’ eggs (5 eggs), 1 bird’s nest, 6 mammals, 2 turtle shells, 2 insects, and 63 shells from Colombia, collected by M. A. Carriker, Jr. (190927).

ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, Philadelphia, Pa.: 2 birds from Bolivia, new to the Museum (189190, exchange); (through James A. G. Rehn) 2 stink bugs from Africa (189729, exchange) ; (through Charles B. Wurtz) 2 paratypes of a recently described land shell, Cerion chaplint Wurtz, from Cuba (1878384, exchange).

ACKERLY, ERNEST, Valley Stream, Long Island, N. Y.: 1 amphipod and 2 insects from Georgia (189147).

Acuna, J. (See under Estaci6n Experimental Agronémica.)

AczEL, Dr. Martin, Tucumiin, Argentina: 4 paratypes of fruit flies from Argentina (187710, exchange); 4 flies from Argentina (190110).

ADAMS, Puitiip A., Berkeley, Calif. : 13 lacewing-flies from the United States (190108, exchange).

Afghanistan: (Through Andrew V. Corry) 1 lapis-lazuli specimen from Badakshan, Afghanistan (189385).

AGRELL, Dr. S. O. (See under University of Cambridge.)

AGRICULTURAL AND MErcHANICAL CorLEGE OF Texas, College Station, Tex.: 67 grasses from Texas (188851).

Washington, D. C.:

Agricultural Research Center, Beltsville, Md.: (Through Dr. Charles Durbin) 1 female water snake containing embryos (188479).

Alaska Insect Project (in cooperation with the Department of Defense, Department of the Army): (Through Dr. V. B. Travis) 18,498 miscellaneous insects and 1 tadpole from Alaska (187323).

Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine: 4 land shells from Guayaquil, Ecuador (187121); 3 land shells and 1 lot of worms from Mexico (187886); 20 land snails from Mississippi (187471); 53 phanerogams collected in Africa by J. M. McGough (187694) ; 250 flies from Africa (187772) ; 1 land mollusk from the Dominican Republic (187958) ; 12 land mollusks and 1 flat worm from Vermont and New York (188095); 1 land snail from Venezuela (188185); 4 land snails from California (188837) ; 23 land snails from Ridgeland, Jasper County, S. C. (188897) ; 6 land mollusks from Ecuador and Washington (189278) ; 1 land mollusk from Jamaica and 1 copepod from Alaska (189490) ; 48,000 miscellaneous insects from all over the world (191150) ; 1,993 miscellaneous insects, including many exotic forms, collected by Curtis W. Sabrosky on trip to Egypt (1911538) ; 5,857 miscellaneous insects presented to Agriculture by Dr. Albert R. Shadle (191156); (through C. FE. W. Muesebeck) 38 amphipods from
<<<75>>>
flower bed of J. B. Green, Houston, Harris County, Tex. (187283) ; 1 land shell from California (187836) ; 14 land snails from Pennsylvania and Crustacea from central Texas (188620); 3 land mollusks from Mexico, Japan, and the Philippine Islands (190016); the Hans Eggers collection of 6,449 bark beetles from all parts of the world (the majority are from South America) (190240); 5 land mollusks from the Hawaiian Islands and Israel (190816) ; (through F. C. Bishopp) a small hand microtome with razor-type section cutter (188622).

European Parasite Laboratory, Paris, France: 19 samples of seeds of Lathyrus and Vicia species (189443) ; (through H. L. Parker) 300 adult and 100 larval beetles, 25 parasitic wasps, 25 sawfly larvae, 4 parasitie isopods, and thornheaded worm and nematode specimens from France (189338).

Bureau of Plant Industry, Soils, and Agricultural Engineering, Beltsville, Md.: 5 lichens from Africa, collected by Dr. J. T. Baldwin (186126) ; 5 South American plants (187409) ; 54 phanerogams from Colombia and Heuador (187693) ; 18 Mexican plants (187861); 3 lichens collected by R. H. Schultes (188268) ; 49 grasses from Mexico collected by Dr. J. T. Baldwin (188326); 7 lichens collected at Abisko, Sweden, by Dr. C. W. Emmons (188440); 2 eryptogams

from the Chardon Herbarium (188535). Forest Service: (Through Doris

Hayes) 3 lichens and 7 Alaska ferns (187623, 191062).

Soil Conservation Service: (Through Herrin F. Culver) 2 miscellaneous grasses (188491); 56 dye-transfer prints (188647, loan).

AKIN, P. D. (See under U. 8S. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

ALABAMA POLYTECHNIC INSTITUE, AUburn, Ala.: 1 plant from Alabama (188853).

ALBANESE, JOHN S., Newark, N. J.: 6 Cretaceous invertebrate fossils from Wyoming (189219); 1 specimen of the Maziba, Uganda, Africa, meteorite (190648).

ALDRICH, Dr. JOHN W. BH. Sechrist.)

AwtpringE, PAvut, Tulsa, Okla.: 2 fossil brachiopods from the upper part of the Boone chert, Mayes County, Okla. (190099).

(See under E.

ALEXANDER, Dr. C. I., San Antonio, Tex. : 719 slides of Ostracoda and Foraminifera from the Mesozoic and Cenozoic of North America and Europe, including many type specimens (190480).

ALLAN, Otive, Halfmoon Bay, Stewart Island, New Zealand: Approximately 1,500 marine and land Shells, together with 12 fossil brachiopods and 2 ostracods from Stewart Island (188147).

ALLARD, H. A., Arlington, Va.: 518 plants collected in Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland (189109).

ALLARD, Howarp F., Tingo Maria, Peru: 120 insects, mostly grasshoppers, some bugs and cicadas, from Peru (1893889).

ALLEGHENY LUDLUM STEEL Corp., Washington, D. C.: 1 copy of Steel Horizons, volume 12, No. 2, spring 1950, published by donor and recorded as first magazine to be printed entirely by Lithure process (187888).

ALLEN, J. Frances. (See under Robert A. Littleford.)

ALLEN, Rosert P., Tavernier, Fla.: Approximately 50 marine and land mollusks from Great Inagua, Bahama Islands (190655) ; approximately 100 marine mollusks from Andros Island, Bahamas (191144).

ALLIATA, Dr. Enrico prt Napowt, Milan, Italy: 18 foraminiferal samples from the Recent and Tertiary of Italy (1885538, exchange).

ALLISON, LELAH, Ellery, Ill.: 15 coverlet pattern drafts, 1881-1853; 1 indigo dye receipt; 1 “Pattent Lamp Fluid” receipt (187949).

ALTAMIRANO T., ERASMO, Tapachula, Chiapas, Mexico: 1 plant (seeds) collected in Mexico (190618).

ALVARENGA, Dr. Leonimpas, San Salvador, El Salvador: 1 phanerogam from Salvador (187597).

AMANO, TETSUO, Okinawa: 100 plants from Okinawa collected by donor (187510, 190473).

AMERICAN AND BRITISH COMMONWEALTH ASSOCIATION, INc., New York, N. Y.: A stone from Washington Old ‘Hall, A. D. 1188, County Durham, England, home of the earliest known ancestor of George Washington, with affidavit of authenticity and 3 photographs of the building (189788).

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF HUMAN PALEontoLocy. (See under Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research. )

AMERICAN MusEUM OF NATURAL HisTory, New York, N. Y.: (Through Frederick H. Rindge) 4 butterflies from South America (188104); (through Dr. Fred H. Pough) 1 kol
<<<76>>>
beckite crystal from Niederpobel, near Schimedeberg, Saxony; 2 euclase crystals from Tanganyika ; and a uvarovite specimen from Finland (190645, exchange).

AMERICAN NUMISMATIC ASSOCIATION, New York, N. Y.: (Through Vernon L. Brown) coins of Australia, Hong Kong, Guatemala, Colombia, Spain, Haiti, New Zealand, Luxembourg, Germany (Hast), Czechoslovakia, Cape Verde Islands, Mexico, Portuguese India, Germany (West), for addition to the Moritz Wormser Me-

morial collection (25 specimens) (189027, loan). AMERICAN Screw Co., Willimantic,

Conn.: (Through Potter and Johnston Co.) a collection of 18 models and machines used for making wood screws in the period approximately 1836 to 1900 (191300).

AMERICAN SOCIETY OF PHOTOGRAPHIC Art, Fort Wayne, Ind.: 71 pictorial photographs by members of the American Society of Photographic Art (187958); (through Robert L. MecFerran) 8 pictorial photographs by members of the American Society of Photographie Art for special exhibition during the months of August and September 1950 (187802, loan).

Amick, Donatp D., Groveton, Alexandria, Va.: A large painted tapa presented to donor in 1943 by a Samoan high chief on the occasion of a ceremonial visit to his home (187443).

AMSDEN, Dr. THomMaAS. (See under Johns Hopkins University.)

ANDERSEN, Capt. H. V., Alexandria, Va.: 16 specimens of Foraminifera, including 8 paratypes and 1 hypotype, from the Recent of Louisiana (189947, 190553).

Anprews, A. J., Washington, D. C.: A chickadee (191214).

ANDREWS, Dr. Jay D., Gloucester Point, Va.: 110 brackish water clams from James River, Va. (187687). (See also under Virginia Fisheries Laboratory.)

ANONYMOUS: 16 ornamental silver pocket nutmeg graters, collected in England (187397).

ARCHAEOLOGICAL SocrETY OF DELAWARE, Newark, Del.: 35 potsherds from Prime Hook Neck, south shore of Slaughter Creek, Sussex County, Del. (189440).

ARELLANO, Dr. A. R. V. Instituto de Geologia.)

ARKANSAS STaTE COLLEGE, State College, Ark. : 149 grasses from Arkansas and Mississippi (186486, 187307, 188984) ; 151 plants collected in Arkansas and Mississippi by Delzie Demaree (190475).

(See under

ARNASON, I. GILBERT. (See under Canadian Government, Fisheries Research Board of Canada.)

ARNAUD, Paut H., Jr., Stanford, Calif. : 4 paratypes of flies from California (187325).

ARNOLD, Prof. JoHN R., Stockton, Calif.: 1 medusa (185945). (See also under College of the Pacific.)

ARVEY, WILLIAM, Norman, Okla.: 3 small mammals from Oklahoma and Idaho (189127).

AsANo, Dr. Kryosut, Sendai, Japan: 11 paratypes of Foraminifera from the Pliocene of Japan (189024).

ASLAKSON, Lt. Comdr. and Mrs. Cazt I., Cocoa, Fla.: Approximately 100 marine and land shells from the West Indies and Florida (191216).

ATKINS, JOHN D., Jr., Falls Church, Va.: Prehnite and apophyllite from Bull Run Quarry, between Centerville and Gainesville (190839, exchange).

AUGUSTSON, G. F., Madera, Calif. : 3 type specimens of female fleas from North America (187932).

Austin, EpitH, Washington, D. C.: Uniform coat, cap, Sword, and accesSories owned by Hiram William Austin, Senior Surgeon, U. S. Public Health Service (9 specimens) (188681).

AzuMA, Prof. Masao, Nishinomiya, Japan: 184 ants from Japan (188824, exchange).

BagsirTt, Lewis H., Petersham, Mass.: 8 reptiles and amphibians collected by donor in Florida, New Hampshire, and Connecticut (190057).

BACHMAN, Mrs. B. M., Washington, D. C.: 1 stereoscopic viewing device and 158 stereoscopic views (187801).

Banger, Mrs. JUNE, Middleburg, Va.: 1 nematode and 21 earthworms (188565, 189104).

Bapcer, Mrs. S. H., Middleburg, Va.: Approximately 90 land and marine mollusks, 34 insects, and 3 isopods from Hire and England (190989).

Battey, Norman §., Boston, Mass.: 6 lacebugs from Connecticut (188184).

BAILEY Hortorium, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.: 82 grasses and 14 plants from Mexico, collected by H. E. Moore, Jr. (188669, 188758, 188759) ; (through Dr. H. Emery Moore, Jr.) 32 Mexican plants collected by Dr. Moore (186662); 12 Mexican ferns (189274).

BAKER, Dr. Roger C., Little Rock, Ark.: Approximately 100 land snails from Bismarek Archipelago (191162).

Baker, Dr. Witt1am H. (See under University of Idaho.)

Bawpur, Prof. W. V., Urbana, Ill.: 103 flies from United States (189298). 
<<<77>>>
Batpwin, Dr. J. T., Jr., Williamsburg, Va.: 1 crab, 1 toad, and mollusk specimens (187563); 68 plants from Afriea and Mexico (187671) ; 12 plants mostly from Virginia (189288).

BattTrmMoreE Zoo, Baltimore, Md.: A grizzly bear (191174).

Banpy, Dr. Mark C., Redfield, Iowa: 1 brannerite specimen from Level 95, Bon Azzer, Morocco (189953) ; 6 ores from various localities of Europe and 6 specimens of meerschaum from Turkey (190639).

Banpy, Dr. Orvitte, Los Angeles, Calif. : 2 foraminiferal samples of the Upper Cretaceous of southern California (190974, exchange).

Bannister, F. A. (See under British Government, British Museum (Natral History).)

Barser, H. G., Washington, D. C.: 31,900 bugs and 161 beetles mostly from United States (190842).

Barpour, RocerR W., Lexington, Ky.: Type and 42 paratypes of a salamander collected by donor (190035).

BaRNEBY, Rupert C., Wappingers Falls, N. Y.: 1 plant from New Mexico (188632) ; 1 plant (190632).

Barnes, Mrs. Mitprep R., Aruba, Netherlands West Indies: Approximately 690 marine mollusks from Aruba (190142, 190759).

BARNETT, Capt. HERBERT C. Dr. Rokuro Kano.)

BARNWELL, FANNIEBELLE WHITE, Warner Robins, Ga.: Dress form and stand marked “Patents Jan. 15, 1895, Dec. 25, 1906” (187889).

Barr, Gen. and Mrs. Davin G., and Parry Barr, Arlington, Va.: Manchu emperor’s cape of black silk lined with fur tailored from skins of two golden-haired monkeys, presented to donors by General Chiang Kai-shek (189908) .

Barr, JOHN, Urbana, Ill.: Cocoon of a marine fly (187202).

Barr, Parry. (See under Gen. and Mrs. David G. Barr.)

Barros V., ERNESTO, Concepcién, Chile: 44 Chilean lichens (188109).

Barry, Davin, Jr., Los Angeles, Calif. : 1 cultivated bromeliad from Mexico (187407).

BartLett, ALIcE C., Washington, D. C.: Glazed and painted terra-cotta vase from Guadalajara, Mexico; a decorated earthenware ladle and bowl from the pueblo of Cochiti, N. Mex., collected by uncle of donor (191097).

Bartiey, FLtoyp, Circleville, Ohio: 14 plants from California and Utah (186127) ; 38 plants collected in Ohio (189328).

Bartson, Dr. Pau, Washington, D. C.: 1 scarlet tanager and 1 set of 3 eggs

(See under

of black-headed caique (187790); 1 chipping sparrow from Virginia (189059) ; 2 cardinals, a sharpshinned hawk, and a Carolina wren from Virginia (189706); 12 specimens of new species of Late Tertiary turrid gastropod types (191073); 2 land snails from Toccoa Falls, Ga. (191215).

Bates Fasrics, Inc., New York, N. Y.: 2 cotton Paisley fabrics (190835). BatTignrE, RENE, Washington, D. C.: 1 lithograph poster illustrated by Pablo Picasso and printed by Mourlot of Paris, announcing an exposition

of pottery at Vallauris, France (1893384). BAvuGHMAN, Dr. J. L. (See under

Texas State Game, Fish and Oyster Commission.)

Bayer, FREDERICK M., Washington, D. C.: Approximately 125 marine invertebrates, approximately 2,000 mollusks and echinoderms collected in Florida (187244) ; specimen each of flatworm, crab, mollusk, and echinoderm (189428).

BEACHLANDS MusruM, Beachlands, New Zealand: (Through Dr. J. W. Campbell) 2 amphipods and 2 isopods (187215).

BEADLE, CHAUNCEY Dertos, Asheville, N. C.: (Through The Biltmore Co.) 1,811 azalea plants (189111); 56 paintings of azaleas by Lucia Porcher Johnson (189382).

BEAMER, Dr. R. H. sity of Kansas. )

Bean, Mrs. Datsy SHOWMAN, Baltimore, Md.: United States flag, 18651867 (190007).

Brearp, DanieL B. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service.)

BEEBE, RALPH, Ecorse. Mich.; Blade of a hand saw marked “Spear and Jackson, Sheffield, made for Wilson and Vosling, Albany” (189888).

BEEBE, Dr. WILLIAM, New York, N. Y.: 1 moth from Venezuela (188141). (See also under New York Zoological Society.)

Brett, Dr. W. C. (See under University of Minnesota.)

BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES, New York, N. Y.: (Through R. K. Honaman) 4 synthetic quartz crystals (190885).

Brenaston, Mrs. Grorcr, Waterloo, Iowa: 3 Cedar Valley Devonian invertebrate fossils from Littleton, Iowa (187043).

BEQUAERT, Dr. JOSEPH. Harvard University, Comparative Zoology.)

(See under Univer-

(See under Museum of 
<<<78>>>
Brerxevey, ©. (See under Canadian Government, Fisheries Research ‘Board of Canada.)

BERRYMAN, Rosert N., Longwood, Fla.: 219 sets of birds’ eggs, 443 eggs, from Venezuela, Trinidad, ete. (189106).

BerHea, Rev. JAMES Epwin, St. Simons Island, Ga.: 25 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks mainly from Liberia and French Morocco (188683, exchange).

BicKLEY, Wir11am H., College Park, Md.: 2 mosquitoes from Richmond, Va. (188940); 7 mosquitoes from Little Creek, Va. (189962).

BittMorE Co. (See under Chauncey Delos Beadle.)

BisHop MusEUM, BERNICE P., Honolulu,

Micronesia obtained by various collectors (187208, exchange); 621 plants from Hawaii (187854, 188482, exchange) ; (through Dr. C. H. Hdmondson) 8 marine mollusks from Pearl Harbor (187420); 6 marine mollusks from Sasebo, Japan (187897) ; (through Yoshio Kondo) 16 mollusks from the Pacific (190758, exchange).

BisHorp, F. ©. (See under U. 8S. Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine.)

Brack, Dr. Davipson. (See under Peking Union Medical College.)

BLACKWELDER, Dr. RicHarp H., Washington, D. C.: 6,323 beetles from all over the world (188542).

Buiaxke, Mrs. Dorts H., Arlington, Va.: 2 land snails from Linné’s garden at Hammarby, near Uppsala, Sweden (190988).

BuAkg, Dr. S. F., Arlington, Va.: 1 fern from South Carolina (187794).

Bianprorp, Nev, McLean, Va.: 8 minerals: calcite, 2 apophyllites, tremolite, and garnet from Virginia; and uraninite, diopside, and feldspar crystal from Canada (190840, exchange).

BLANDY HxXPERIMENTAL Farm, Boyce, Va.: 1,100 plants from Mexico, West Indies, and United States, collected by Dr. O. BE. White (187452) ; 1 cultivated phanerogam of Spanish origin (187796) .

Bruanton, Major F. 8., Ithaca, N. Y.: 2,078 fruit flies from North America (189089).

BrizzarD, Mrs. JAmes, Lowmoor, Va., and NATIONAL SPELEOLOGICAL SOCIETY, Washington, D. C.: 2 centipedes and 3 isopods collected by William J. Foster and Michael Fischer from cave at Lowmoor (189053).

Biume, Prof. Dr. Wrrner, Goettingen, Germany: Approximately 125 mollusks (187896, exchange).

969583—52 5

Bock, W., Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 uraninite and gummite specimen from Mica Bay, Sault St. Marie, Ontario (190278).

Bovine, Dr.’ ApaAam G., Washington, D. C.: 1 cultivated plant (187995). BowartT, Dr, RICHARD M., Davis, Calif.: 73 Wasps, mostly paratypes. from the United States (190981, 191151); 5 mosquitoes from California (191117).

Botxi, Dr. Hans, Pointe-a-Pierre Trinidad, British West Indies: 7 Oligocene Foraminifera, all types, from Trinidad (188540).

Bonnet, Dr. Davin D. ritory of Hawaii, Health.)

(See under TerDepartment of

-Booxatz, SAMUEL, Washington, D. C.: T. H.: 652 plants from Hawaii and }

27 lithographs by Mr. Bookatz lent for special exhibition during October 1950 (188278, loan); 1 lithograph, “Nocturne,” by donor (189052). Boston Numismatic Socrery, Boston, Mass.: (Through Henry Schuhmacher) 1 bronze medal commemorating the 90th anniversary of the Boston Numismatic Society (187440).

‘Botanic GARDEN, Gothenburg, Sweden:

200 grasses mostly from Scandinavia (190834, exchange).

BOTANICAL INSTITUTE OF THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE U.S. S. R., Leningrad, U.S.S.R.: 218 plants from Middle Asia (187599, exchange); 358 plants from U. 8S. S. BR. (190088, exchange).

Botany Mitts, Inc., Passaic, N. J.: 2 Paisley printed wool fabrics (190889).

BottrmMer, L. J., Kerrville, Tex.: 1,407 miscellaneous insects from Mexico and Texas, and 7 scorpions from Texas (187680).

‘Box, HArotp E., Maracay, Venezuela:

98 froghoppers, including paratypes, from Venezuela (187131).

Boynton, Mrs. A. M., Port Gamble, Wash. : 8 fresh-water and marine mollusks from Kitsap County, Wash. (188391).

BRABSON, Capt. Kimprerty, New York, N. Y.: 6 chamois from near Obersdorf, Germany (189398).

Braprorp, Farra, Chevy Chase, Md.: Miniature house of 21 finished rooms, an attic and trunk room; the miniature furnishings of a typical American home of the period 1900-14; and a typewritten manuscript story of the house (approximately 1,354 specimens) (190558).

BrapsHaw, A. S. University. )

Brapy, M. K. (See under Washington Biologists’ Field Club.)

BRAMLETTE, Dr. M. N., Los Angeles, Calif.: 8 foraminiferal samples from

(See under Cornell 
<<<79>>>
the Middle and Upper Cretaceous of

Tunisia, North Africa (190972).

BranHamM, Mrs. Hucu, Fort Myers Beach, Fla.: 9 marine mollusks from Florida (188848, 189267) ; 4 marine shells from off Yucatan, Mexico (190431).

Brant, RatpH A., Tulsa, Okla.: 14 invertebrate fossils from the Fayetteville shale from Madison County, Ark. (190098) .

Braun, Dr. ANNETTE F., Cincinnati, Ohio: 2 paratypes of a new species of moth from United States (1902389).

BRENCELE, Dr. J. F., Mellette, S. Dak.: 40 plants from central United States (186011) ; 9 ferns (188799) ; 25 plants (189880, exchange).

BRENNAN, JAMES. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. S. Public Health Service, Hamilton, Mont.).

BripcGe, Jos1aH. (See under U. 8. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

BrigHaAM YouNG UNIVERSITY, Provo, Utah: 89 plants from the South Pacifie and Utah (175085) ; 101 plants from Utah (189347); (through Dr. B. F. Harrison) 85 plants from Utah (178650).

Britt, Dr. KENNETH G., St. Louis, Mo.: 7 fragmentary specimens of cotylosaurian and pelycosaurian reptiles from an occurrence of Permian age near Howard, Fremont County, Colo., collected by donor during summer of 1950 (189026).

Bristow, F. B., Annandale, Va.: 1 plant from Virginia (187963).

British Museum (Natural History), London, England: 8 phanerogams from Panama collected by A. H. G. Alston (187881, exchange) ; (through G. J. Kerrich) 13 chalcid wasps from Trinidad (187459, exchange) ; (through Paul Freeman) 4 blackflies from England, Sunda Islands, Tahiti, and Algeria (188279, exchange); 52 biting midges from various localities of the world (189337, exchange) ; 66 biting midges from Great Britain, Trinidad, and Mexico (189839, ex-

change); (through Kenneth P. Oakley) 11 casts of Proconsul, Sivapithecus, and Limnopithecus from Hast Africa (188615, exchange); (through Dr. F. I. van Emden) 2 flies from Europe (188772); 10 flies from Africa (1887738); 1 horse bot fly from

Hungary (189965) ; (through R. J. Izzard) 10 stink bugs from Africa (189029, exchange); (through Dr. Cyril L. Collenette) 6 paratypes of moths from South America

(189390) ; (through D. S. Fletcher) 1 butterfly and 2 moths from South

America, all new to collection (189961); (through Ailsa M. Clark) 1 echinoderm from the

Mediterranean (191068, exchange) ; (through F. A. Bannister) 1 sechultenite specimen from ‘Tsumeb, Otavi, Southwest Africa (191074, exchange).

BRITTINGHAM, ALVIN W. and JOSEPH B., Hampton, Va.: Collection of artifacts and fragments of early American eolonial use, excavated by Messrs. Brittingham from site of Kicotan Trading Post at Hampton in 1942, with the assistance of the Mariner’s Museum, Newport News (188130).

Bromsere, M. D., Washington, D. C.: 1 fan with elaborately carved and gilded mother-of-pearl sticks and silk and chicken-skin web (188129); a complete Maya water jar from Uxmal in the Puue area of northern Yucatan, collected by donor during the spring of 1921 (190001).

BRONNIMANN, Dr. P., Pointe-a-Pierre, Trinidad, British West Indies: Holotype of a foraminifer from the Recent off Tobago, British West Indies (for Cushman collection) (188709) ; holotype and 19 paratypes of a new genus of globigerinid foraminifer from the Miocene of Trinidad (for Cushman collection) (188888) ; 24 type specimens of Foraminifera from the Tertiary of Trinidad (191112) ; (through Dr. Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr.) 2 holotypes and 11 paratypes of 2 globigerinid Foraminifera from the Hocene and Miocene of Trinidad (190398).

Brotzen, Dr. Fritz, Stockholm, Sweden: 49 Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of Texas, Sweden, and France, and from the Paleocene of Sweden (190231, exchange).

Brown, Dr. Barnum, Guatemala City, Guatemala: 11 Cretaceous echinoids from Guatemala (188642).

Brown, Dr. C. J. D., Bozeman, Mont.:

25 fishes collected in Montana (189040).

Brown, R. W. (See under Eastman Kodak Co.).

Brown, Vernon L. (See under American Numismatic Association. ).

Bruner, Dr. 8.C. (See under Hstacié6n Experimental Agronomica.).

Brunner, Dr. Henri, Lausanne, Switzerland: 62 European ferns (1883831, exchange).

BuELL, Noste EH. (See under U. 8S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

Butiis, Harvey R., Jr. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.) 
<<<80>>>
BurcH, Dr. Tuomas A., Bethesda, Md.: 36 crustaceans and 5 fishes (176792).

BURKENROAD, Dr. Martin D., Newport, N. C.: 6 pagurids and 6 shrimps (188201, 190217).

Burks, Dr. BarNry D., Washington, D. C.: 51 horseflies from North Carolina (187807); 2 diplopods (millipeds) from Mount Mitchell, N. C. (188051).

Burr, C. Frep, Phoenix, Ariz.: 10 specimens of gypsum pseudomorphous after glauberite from Camp Verde, Ariz. (188639) ; 2 minerals: cuprite and copper, and dioptase from Ray, Ariz. (190233, exchange).

BurRouGHs, PauLt H., Winnisquam, N. H.: 2 specimens and 5 crystals of herderite from Fletcher Mine, Groton, N. H. (188800, 189063, exchange).

Burry, Leo A., Pompano Beach, Fla.: Approximately 300 marine shells dredged off Florida (188650, exchange).

BurscuH, Dr. J. G., Caracas, Venezuela: 1 holotype and 15 topotypes of an Upper Hocene foraminifer from Venezuela (189824).

Byas, WALTER J., Washington, D. C.: A land mollusk from Muskogee, Muskogee County, Okla. (190755).

Byrp, Prof. Eton H., Athens, Ga.: Type and paratype of the trematode Allogtyptus crenshawi Byrd (187240).

BYRNE, Capt. R. J. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Army.)

Byron, Harry C., Washington, D. C.: Mahogany portable desk box with rosewood veneered covers, early 19th century (187396).

CABELL, RocrER W., Needham, Mass.: Vehicle camoufiage net of the type used by the United States Army in the North African Campaign, and by the British 8th Army at the battle of El Alemain, period of World War II (189650).

CADEY, JOHN G., Beltsville, Md.: 1 specimen of whitelockite from Sabinas Hidalgo, Nuevo Le6én, Mexico (190638).

Capy, RALPH M., Harrisburg, Pa.: 12 plants from Pennsylvania (188029).

CALIFORNIA, UNIVERSITY or, Berkeley,

Calif. : 349 plants mostly from California, collected by Dr. H. L. Mason and Ethel Crum (187405, exchange) ; 36 plants collected mostly in Brazil by A. Macedo (188014) ; 1 plant from Mexico (188276, exchange); 38 phanerogams from Mexico collected by E. Matuda (189168) ; 251 plants collected in northern California by Joseph P. Tracy (190092, exchange); 498 plants collected in Baja California,

Mexico, by Annetta Carter and associates (190955, exchange); (through Prof. A. Harl Pritchard) 99 mites from United States and Hngland (187018, exchange) ; (through Douglas Gould) 2 type specimens of mites from California (189339) ; (through Chicago Natural History Museum) 70 amphibians and reptiles mostly from Kenya, Africa, collected by Harry Hoogstraal on the University of California African Expedition, 1948 (190076) ; (through Dr. Ralph I. Smith) 2 type shrimps (190500) ; (through Dr. Adolf Pabst) 2 jadeite specimens from near Cloverdale, Sonoma County, Calif. (190748, exchange); (through Dr. J. Wyatt Durham) 8 Tertiary echinoids from California (190910, exchange) ; (through W. W. Middlekauff) 49 North American horseflies (191116, exchange).

College of Agriculture, Davis, Calif: 1 grass from California (187316) ; 40 grasses (189108).

Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, Berkeley, Calif.: 164 birds from California (187398) ; 8 bird skins from Japan and Korea (187869) ; (through Dr. F. A. Pitelka) 5 fresh-water crabs, 4 insects, and a millipede from Chiapas, Mexico (189479).

CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, San Francisco, Calif. : 1 plant from Mexico (186077) ; 587 plants mostly from western United States (187406, exchange) ; 9 specimens of the mollusean genus Haliotis from California and Alaska (187808) ; 1 plant and 1 grass from California (188110, 190476) ; 456 plants from California, mostly collected by J. T. Howell (188876, exchange); (through Dr. Harl S. Herald) 1 fish paratype from along coral shore of upper Purvis Bay, Florida Island, Solomons, collected by W. M. Chapman, May 3, 1944 (187799).

‘ALIFORNIA STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBtic HeattruH, Berkeley, Calif.: (Through Dr. Arve H. Dahl) 59 fresh-water mollusks from Hume Lake, Calif. (188893); (through Frank P. Filice) a pelagic nemertean (189349) ; 1 lot of jadeite from Clear Creek, San Benito County, Calif. (187587).

CAMBRIDGE, Sgt. Puirip, Cardiff, South Wales: Approximately 400 miscellaneous mollucks from Wales (187971, exchange); 3 microsamples of Foraminifera from the Tertiary of England (187996, exchange) ; 1 Mesozoic plant, 65 Cenozoic invertebrates, 
<<<81>>>
and 50 Mesozoic invertebrates from

Great Britain (188675, exchange) ;

40 mollusks from Pliocene of Holland,

1 Mesozoic brachiopod from Germany,

and 8 Mesozoic mollusks (190096,

exchange); 1 sample of shale from

the Upper Oligocene, Doberg, near

Biinde, Westphalia, Germany (190-

232, exchange) ; 23 specimens of fos-

sil mollusks from Pliocene and 10

specimens from Cretaceous deposits

of Germany (190747, exchange) ; approximately 50 landand fresh-

water mollusks from Germany (191-

218, exchange).

CAMBRIDGE, UNIVERSITY OF, Cambridge, England: (Through Dr. S. O. Agrell) 11 mineral specimens from Scawt Hill, Antrium, Ireland, and 1 mineral from ‘Terbeoshov, Shuyeverskoya, Karelia, U. S. S. R. (188767, exchange).

CAMPBELL, Mrs. CHartes, Philadelphia, Pa.: An old musical repeater watch rebuilt and re-cased by S. L. Schumo, donor’s father, in 1869 (1885388).

CAMPBELL, Dr. J. W. (See under Beachlands Museum.)

CANADIAN GovERNMENT, Ottawa, Ontario:

Department of Agriculture:

Division of Botany and Plant Pathology: 238 plants from Argentina and Chile collected by H. A. Senn (187513); 27 grasses from Canada (188935, 189213, 189694, 190788, 190957); 1 grass from South America (189150) ; 795 plants from Canada and South America (190549, -exchange).

Division of Entomology: (Through G. S. Walley) 6 flies from eastern Canada (188774) ; (through T. N. Freeman) 16 butterflies from Canada (1893891).

Canadian National Collection: (Through Guy Shewell) 2 paratypes of flies from Canada (188140) ; (through D. ¥. Hardwick) 9 moths from Arctic America (1904038, exchange).

Fisheries Research Board of Canada: (Through I, Gilbert Arnason) a copepod (189459); (through C. Berkeley) 1 polychaete worm (190020).

Geological Survey of Canada: (Through Dr. J. A. Jeletzky) 8 plaster casts of type Cretaceous ammonites (190192, exchange).

CANFIeLp Funp, Smithsonian Institution: 10 mineral specimens including sphene and fergusonite from Ontario, Canada; garnet and hellandite from Norway, bustamite from New Jersey,

saponite from Spain, amphibole from Sweden, lazurite from Italy; boulangerite from Germany, and ferripicotite from Madagascar (187047); 1 opalized cone from Virgin Valley, Ney. (187446) ; 1 quartz crystal group from Otomé, Yamanashi, Japan (187757) ; 2 mineral specimens: 1 of galena altering to chrysocolla and anglesite from Mammoth, Ariz., and 1 of hetaerolite and coronadite from Bisbee, Ariz. (188135) ; calcite specimen from Keweenaw Peninsula, Mich. (189065) ; 1 creedite specimen from Colquiri, Bolivia (189118); 1 beryl erystal (aquamarine) 295 grams, from Minas Gerais, Brazil, and 1 crystal of emerald from Bahia, Brazil (189119) ; 1 ruby crystal from Burma (189950) ; a jasper specimen and an agate with amethyst specimen, both from Idar, Germany (190050); a proustite specimen from Chafarcillo, Chile (190898) ; a large quartz cluster from Arkansas (190410): topaz, rutile, goethite, and hematite from Minas Gerais, Brazil (190587); 7 minerals consisting of manganotantalite, simpsonite, gummite, and 2 erystals of tourmaline from Brazil; 1 cut stone of stibiotantalite from Mozambique weighing 2.47 carats; 1 cut stone of rhodizite from Madagascar weighing .49 carat (190965) ; a ludlamite specimen from 50 miles north of Challis and 10 miles north of junction of main and middle fork

of Salmon River, Lemhi County, Idaho (190966). Canzio, Dr. Oscar A. (See under

Estaci6n Hidrobiolégica de Rosario.)

CARDENAS, Prof. Martin, Cochabamba, Bolivia: 100 plants collected in Bolivia (191061).

CARDENAS FIGUEROA; Dr. Mauro. (See under Laboratorio de Hidrobiologia.).

Cart, Dr. G. CuLirrorp. (See under Provincial Museum. ).

Stanford, Calif.: 118 plants, mostly from California (189710). -

CARPENTER, RALPH G., 2d. (See under New Hampshire Fish and Game Department. )

CARPENTER, Lt. Col. Staniey J., Fort Clayton, C. Z:: 1 mosquito from Panama (187893).

CARROLL, Hpwarp J., Springdale, Conn.: Shoulder sleeve patch of early unofficial design of the Nineteenth Corps, U. 8S. Army, period of World War II (187729).

CARTWRIGHT, Oscar L., Washington, D. C.: 412 miscellaneous insects from America (187968) ; 3 land snails from Madison, S.C. (190719). 
<<<82>>>
Casanova, RicHAarp L., Statesville, N. C.: 6 Lower Cretaceous echinoids from west Texas (188539, exchange).

Cats, Mrs. Marcaret Dayis, Sea Island, Ga.: A worm tube and a sponge (187924) ; a sand case and mollusk (190614).

CATEDRA DE BACTEROLOG{A Y PARASTTOLogia, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr, I. Ortiz Cordero) 11 biting midges from Venezuela (190982).

CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA, Washington, D, C.: 18 grasses from Alaska (188046) ; 75 Alaskan lichens collected by H. C. Hanson (188557).

Cart, Mrs. Carrizg CHAPMAN, (deceased): (Through Alda H. Wilson) medals, badges, and supporting documents from the estate of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, American woman suffrage leader (21 specimens) (189827).

CENTRAL PROVINCES MANGANESE ORE Co., Lrp., London, England: (Through Andrew VY. Corry) a specimen of high grade manganese ore from Kandri, Nagpur District, Madhya Pradesh, India (189105).

CERRO DE Pasco Copper Corpe., La Oroya, Peru: (Through W. C. Lacy) a collection of 36 ores from Cerro de Pasco, Morococha, Casapalea, Yauricocha, and Juleani, Peru (188846).

CHALKLEY, LyMAN, Washington, D. C.: 16 plants preserved in methyl methaerylate (187821).

CHAMBERLAIN, H). B, Charleston, 8. C.: Cast of innominate bone of the earless seal, Phoca, from Hdisto Beach, Charleston County (190351).

CHAMBERLAIN FUND, FRANCES Lema, Smithsonian Institution: An aquamarine from Ceylon, 71.20 carats (188841); a tourmaline gem from Mozambique, 14.5 carats (189118); a 1.08-carat cut stone of synthetic emerald (1903896).

‘CHANDLER, ALLISON, Ottawa, Kans.: Set of 7 coins of the government of India for 1950 (188842).

CHAPIN, Dr. Epwarp A., Washington, D. C.: Approximately 100 miscellaneous insects and 2 crabs from New Jersey (187717); fragment of gold ornament said to have been found in Panama (188488).

CHARLESTON Musrum, Charleston, S. C.: 1 hooded merganser (191057, exchange).

CHASE, VIRGINIUS H., Peoria Heights, Ill.: 96 plants from Illinois (188044,

189107). CHAVAN, Prof. Anpr&e L., Thoiry, France: 36 marine mollusks and 6

brachiopods from France and the Indian Ocean (189310, exchange) ; 60 Tertiary prionodont pelecypods from

Belgium, France, and Morocco (191189, exchange).

CHEN, Dr. H. T., Hong Kong, China: Approximately 50 medically important mollusks from China (189492).

CHENEY BrotHers, New York, N. Y.: 8 silk fabries (190958).

CHERMOCK, FRANKLIN H., Baltimore, Md.: 5 butterflies from United States (188780, gift-exchange).

Cuicaco NaturaL History Museum, Chicago, Ill.: 51 plants collected in Ecuador and Venezuela by J. A. Steyermark (176547, 176548) ; 537 plants collected in Honduras by P. C. Standley (188045, exchange); 228 plants collected in Venezuela and Heuador by Dr. J. A. Steyermark (188671, 189714, exchange); 17 ecryptogams (189045, exchange); 5 plants collected in Colombia by J. Cuatrecasas (189289, exchange); (through Dr. Sharat K. Roy) 6 meteorites: Mapleton, Iowa (4,280 grams) ; La Porte, Ind. (1,492 grams) ; Cacaria, Mexico (176 grams); Smithonia, Ga. (574.6

grams); Breece, N. Mex. (574.6 grams); and Potter, Nebr. (1,441 grams) (188408, exchange). (See

also under University of California.)

Cuow, Dr. C. Y., Taipeh, Formosa, China: 48 mosquitoes from Formosa (189727).

CHRISTIAN, PAu J., Lawrence, Kans.: 105 leafhoppers from North America (190881).

Crark, ArrsA M. (See under British Government, British Museum (Natural History) .)

CLARK, Davin T., Lincoln, Nebr.: Holotypes of 3 new species of cestodes (190985).

Ciark, Dr. Hueenin, New York, N. Y.: 3,400 fishes representing over 100 species of reef fishes from Micronesia (189301).

CLARK, Dr. HERBERT C. Panama Canal.)

CLarkK UNiverstry, Worcester, Mass.: 278 plants collected in Labrador and Arctic America by David Potter and associates (190879, exchange).

CLARKE, Carnot C., Falls Church, Va.: 112 beetles from Waterville, Wash. (187764).

CLARKE, J. F. G., Washington, D. C.: 549 bees and wasps from Washington

(See under

and Virginia (188411); 15 moths from Brazil (189297). CuarKr, Mrs. JosmrpH T. (deceased) :

(Through Mrs. Llewellyn William Oliver) 3 ethnological specimens from the Wind River Shoshoni Indians and 1 specimen from Teton Dakota indians, collected by Col. Joseph T. Clarke, Medical Corps, U. 8. Army (188786). 
<<<83>>>
CLARKE-MACINTYRE, WILLIAM, Cojimies Manabi, Ecuador: 29 beetles from Heuador (187969).

CLAUDE, J. LEEDS W., Annapolis, Md.: 1 tiger beetle from Maryland (187544).

CLauDE, Mrs. W. T., Elkridge, Md., 2 beetles from Maryland (187203).

CLEMENT, Rev. Brother, Santiago, Cuba: 41 specimens and 4 photographs of ferns (188108) ; 26 ferns from Cuba (189569, 190563).

CLEMENT, Mary Loursa Apams, Warrenton, Va.: The Adams-Clement collection of china, silver, jewelry, costumes, documents, furniture, and miscellaneous specimens, relics of the families of John Adams, John Quincy Adams, and their descendants, given in memory of donor’s mother, Louisa Catherine Adams Clement (189886).

CLENCH, WILLIAM J., Cambridge, Mass. : Approximately 500 miscellaneous mollusks (189054, exchange). (See also under Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology.)

CurrTt, LinpA LEE, Washington, D. C.: Crystal radio set with headset, Ca. 1924 (187884).

CiLosE, Lt. Col. NELLIZ, Washington, D. C.: United States Army nurse uniform and accessories of the period between World Wars I and II (19 specimens) (191075).

Croup, Dr. Preston H., Jr., (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

CocHEU, Mrs. EMMA FEF. Gacrery, Washington, D. C.: 87 ethnological specimens collected from the Teton Dakota tribes by the donor’s father, Maj. James H. Gageby, while on duty at Forts Sully and Niobrara, 1892-96 (188486) ; 9 ethnological specimens obtained by donor’s brother-in-law, Maj. Gen. Frank Cocheu, U. S. A., from the Teton Dakota of Rosebud Indian Reservation, while stationed at Fort Niobrara, Nebr., 1894-98 (190269).

CoE, Dr. WESLEY R., La Jolla, Calif. : 1 nemertean, type specimen (190562).

CorEN, Mrs. ELEANOR, Chicago, Ill.: 25 color lithographs by Mrs. Coen for special exhibition during February 1951 (1893886, loan).

CoHER, Epwarp I., Amherst, Mass.: (Through John Lane) 13 pupal exuviae on slides and 11 associated pinned adults of mosquitoes from Brazil (188508).

CoHN-HALL-Marx Co., New York, N. Y.: 6 samples of silk Cohama fabrics, Kasuri Meisen, spot-dyed in the yarn (189061).

CoLE, Dr. A. C., Jr., Knoxville, Tenn. : Approximately 270 ants from North America (188711, 189876, exchange).

Coe, Dr. L. G., White Plains, N. Y.: 1 motion picture projection machine manufactured by J. B. Colt & Co., of New York (187246).

Coz, O. C., Kenyon, Minn.: 50 Middle Ordovician brachiopods mostly from the Cannon Falls area, Minn. (188766).

COLEGIO DE LA SALie, Habana, Cuba: 2 ferns and 1 phanerogam from Cuba (186586, 187795).

CoLEMAN, Ricuarp W., San Francisco, Calif.: 17 blackflies from California (189122).

COLLEGE oF AGRICULTURE, Kabul, Af-

ghanistan: 23 grasses (189381, exchange). COLLEGE oF THE Pactric, Stockton, Calif.: (Through Prof. John R.

Arnold) 1 tunicate from Tomales Bay (187048).

CoLLENETTE, Dr. Cyrin L. (See under British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)

Cottin, J. H., Newmarket, Suffolk, England: 3 fruit flies from England (187711, exchange).

Coins, Dr. C. B., Corpus Christi, Tex. : 1 plant from Texas (188497).

CoLLins, Dr. Henry B., Jr. (See under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Hthnology.)

Cotitins, LeicH R., Wilkinsburg, Pa.: Right suborbital plate of arthrodiran fish from the Middle Devonian strata at Silica, Lucas County, Ohio (188498).

CoLORADO AGRICULTURAL AND MErcHaANIcaAL CoLiEecE, Fort Collins, Colo.: 4 grasses from Colorado (187880).

CoLtorapo MUsEUM, UNIVERSITY OF, Boulder, Colo. : 1 phanerogam isotype collected in Colorado (1873805, exchange).

COLUMBIA UNIvERSITY, Department of Anthropology, New York, N. Y.: Archeological material, consisting of sherd samples of named pottery types, from sites excavated on Marajo, Mexiana, and Caviana Islands in the mouth of the Amazon, and excavated in the Territory of Amapd, Brazil, collected between July 1948 and July 1949 by the Lower Amazon Expedition (187751).

Comita, GAsrieL W., Seattle, Wash.: 2 copepods (190949).

ComMeErcr, U. S. Department or, National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C.: (Through W. D. George) 155 specimens of early electrical equipment and 125 early electronie tubes (188571).

COMMISSION ON THE RENOVATION OF THE EXEcUTIVE Mansion, Washington, D. C.: Mantels used in the White House; white marble mantel, period 
<<<84>>>
1854; black marble mantel, period 1870 ; white wood mantel, period 1902; marble mantel and paneling from the East Room, period 1902 (189295).

CoMMONWEALTH Screntiric & InpUusTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION, Canberra, Australia: (Through D. F. Waterhouse) approximately 50 flies from Australia (187999).

ConarpD, Dr. Henry S., Milford, Iowa: 1 moss from Arizona (187753).

Conpit, D. Date, Greenwich, Conn.: (Through Dr. Wendell P. Woodring) 12 Upper Devonian brachiopods from western Australia (189086).

CONFERENCE ON THE District Fora, Washington, D. C.: 4 phanerogams from the vicinity of Washington, D.C. (187792); 28 plants collected in Maryland and Virginia (189020) ; (through Dr. Egbert H. Walker) 31 plants collected in the eastern United States (188437).

ConcrrR, PauL S. (See under Conservation Commission of Maryland.)

CONKLIN, Harotp C., New Haven, Conn.: A courting song inscribed in a derived Indic script on bamboo by Siuli, a Hanuno6 of Waigan, near Mansalay, Southern Mindoro, collected by donor in 1947 (183610).

Conroy, C. Harrison. Color Processes, Inc.)

Consanr, Marto, Florence, Italy: 40 ants from Mediterranean region (189392, exchange).

CoNSERVATOIRE BoTaniqur, Geneva, Switzerland: 4 phanerogams (fragments of types) from Samoa (189325, exchange).

Cootry, Joun A., Garret Park, Md.: 2 marine mollusks from Baja California, Mexico (190657).

CooNLey, Mrs. AVERY, Washington, D. C.: Set of 6 silver teaspoons marked “P. R.,” and 2 matching serving spoons marked “Revere” (190924).

Cooper, Dr. G. Arruur, Washington, D. C.: 1 life-size model of trilobite Terataspis (190384).

Cooper, Dr. and Mrs. G. ArtHur, Washington, D. C.: 200 Devonian fossils from central New York collected by the donors (188137).

Cooper, Morris L., Baltimore, Md.: A Cooper mortar and pestle (191195).

Cooper, Dr. Paut L. (See under Smithsonian Institution, River Basin Surveys.)

CorpERO, Dr. I. Ortiz. (See under Catedra de Bacterologia y Parasitologia.)

CoRNELL UNIVERSITY, Ithaca, N. Y.:

(Through Dr. Edward C. Raney) 11 Cichlidae fishes from Brazil, collected by C. F. Hart (187457, ex-

(See under Ives

change) ; 215 fishes collected by David Starr Jordan in Japan (188673) ; (through A. S. Bradshaw) approximately 700 copepods (190176).

New York State College of Agriculture: (Through Dr. W. C. Muenscher) 2 cotypes of diatoms (190634, exchange) .

Wiegand Herbarium: (191065, exchange).

Corry, ANDREW V., New Delhi, India:

A specimen of cassiterite and wolf-

ramite in quartz gangue from Mawchi

Mines, Burma (188502). (See also

under Afghan Ministry of Mines and

peatral Provinces Manganese Ore Co., td.) CorTEs P., Dr. Ral, Santiago, Chile: 4

120 plants

flies from Argentina and Chile (188779). CoryNpon Museum, Nairobi, Kenya

Colony, Africa: 4 species of honeyguides and 1 warbler from Kenya Colony and Tangangyika Territory (188083, exchange).

Cosmos CtLus, Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. Laurence F. Schmeckebier) 1 early 20th century lantern Slide projector by James W. Queen & Co.. Philadelphia, Pa. (187322).

Coucu, Mrs. Mary Izant, Hyattsville, Md.: White muslin nightgown of the period of 1870 (189454).

CourtNEy, Dr. K. O. (See under the Panama Canal, Health Department.)

Cox, Dr. Atyin J., Palo Alto, Calif.: 1 tree specimen cultivated in District of Columbia (187697).

Cox, Dr. Grorcre H., New Glasgow, Nova Scotia: 5 fossil oysters from St. Petersburg, Fla. (187676).

CRANE, FRANK, Fort Worth, Tex.: Approximately 50 brachiopods from the Cretaceous Anacacho formation of Texas (190975).

CrEeIcHTON, Dr. W. S., Boulder, Colo.: 77 ants from Africa and North America (190281, exchange).

CRESPIN, IRENE, Canberra, Australia: 14 slides of Foraminifera from the Cretaceous and Tertiary of Australia (191111, exchange).

CroucHu, Rosert W., Long Beach, Calif. : 6 hypotype specimens of Foraminifera from the Pliocene of the Los Angeles Basin (188541); 111 slides of Foraminifera and 3 slides of Ostracoda from the Recent deposits in deep basins off the southern California coast (191070).

Crums, S. E., Puyallup, Wash.: 1,000 Upper Miocene or Lower Pliocene invertebrate fossils from the Bogachiel River in Clallam County, Wash. (1883819). 
<<<85>>>
CULVER, HERRIN EF. (See under U. S. | DEFENSE, DEPARTMENT OF—Continued

Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service. )

CumINGS, Rosert, Glasgow, Scotland: 3 microsamples from the Mississippian of northern England (189218, exchange).

Curtis, Kart, P., Gamboa, C. Z.: 2 skins of water opossums from Veraguas Provinee, Panama (190865); (through Dr. A. Wetmore) 1 whitethroated ibis from the Republic of Panama (188871).

Dapney, RanpH A., Center, Colo.: (Through Frank L. Hess) A specimen of chalcedony lining cavity in rhyolite from Center (190838).

Da Costa Lima, Dr. A. (See under California State Department of Public Health.)

DAHLGREEN FUND, Smithsonian Institution: Wood engraving, “Steam Shovel,” a political cartoon by Leopoldo Mendez (189728) ; 1 color woodcut, “Refuge’ by Seong Moy (189885).

Daun, C. K. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service.)

Danret, Brother, Medellin, Colombia: 24 plants collected in Colombia (189928).

DANIELSON, Col. IpA W., Washington, D. C.: United States Army nurse uniform cape of the period following World War I (191076).

DaRLINGTON, Dr. EMLEN P., New Lisbon, N. J.: 51 moths from Venezuela and North America (189123, 190243).

DasuHwoop, R. JuLIAN, Mauke, Cook Islands: 19 marine mollusks from Mauke (189667).

Davis, JARED J. (See under General Electric Co..)

Davis AND ELKINS COLLEGE, Dlkins, W. Va.: 1 plant cultivated in West Virginia (188019).

Davis & GEcK, Inc., Brooklyn, N. Y.: An exhibit, “The Story of Modern Surgical Sutures” (191194).

Davison, Ciinton C., Baltimore, Md.: Fossil peceary tooth from the Calvert formation of the Miocene, 1 mile south of Chesapeake Beach, Calvert County, Md. (190119).

Dawson, Lewis, Wilmington, Del.: 1 fish from Millsboro Lake, Del. (188880) .

Day, WorpEN, Laramie, Wyo. : 25 prints and drawings in various media by Miss Day for special exhibition during May 1951 (190649, loan).

Decker, Dr. CuHartrs W., Norman, Okla.: 2 Ordovician corals from Oklahoma (189884).

Department of the Air Force, Wash-

ington, D. C.: (Through U.S. Air Force Game Warden) 1 freshwater nematode worm from Harding Lake, Alaska (187989).

Depariment of the Army, Washing-

ton, D. C.: (Through Col. George W. Hunter, Ill, 406th Medical General Laboratory) Approximately 200 fresh-water mollusks from Lake Shinji, Japan (187972); approximately 100 land and medically important fresh-water mollusks from Japan (188684); 5 fresh-water mollusks from Korea (191175) ; (through Lt. Col. Walter J. LaCasse, 35th Station Hospital) 73 Korean mosquitoes (189340) ; (through Dr. W. De Leon, 19th Medical General Laboratory) 340 mosquitoes from Philippine Islands (189342); (through Maj. Paul W. Oman, 38d Army Medieal Laboratory) 1,418 mosquitoes from all over the world (190241) ; (through Capt. R. J. Byrne, Army Medical Center) 2 rats from Puerto Rico (190593) ; (through Dorothy Kitterman) 60 prints from the annual Interservice Photograph Contest exhibited during the month of July 1950 (191190, loan). (See also under U.S. Department of Agriculture, Alaska Insect Project.)

Armed Forces Institute of Pathol-

ogy, Washington, D. C.: 29 assorted weapons and 3 plaster easts of Neolithic figurines from Malta (188409) ; skull of Indian elephant (189227).

Army Medical Department fRe-

search and Graduate School, Washington, D. C.: (Through Maj. Robert Traub) 18 reptiles and amphibians and 8 mole crickets from Malaya (187558) ; 26 type specimens of fleas from Mexico, Guatemala, Burma, and Nepal (187724); 88 mammals, 57 reptiles and amphibians and 7 birds from Selangor and Pahang, Malaya (188144); 367 miscellaneous insects, spiders, diplopods, 2 flatworms, and 6 earthworms from Malaya (189224).

Office of the Quartermaster General,

Quartermaster Research and Development Laboratories, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Louis M. Roth) Approximately 90 slides of beetles from North America (189228). 
<<<86>>>
DEFENSE, DEPARTMENT oF—Continued

Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories, Fort Monmouth, N. J.: (Through Lt. Col. William M. Young and Dr. H. H. Waesche) 2 synthetic quartz crystals and 1 synthetic berlinite erystal (190040).

Department of the Navy, Washington, D. C.: (Through Commander W.K. Lawlor) 5 flies from Camp Lejeune (189175).

Hydrographic Office, Washington, D. C.: (Through George Jacobs) 1 fish taken June 9, 1950 by U.S. S. Rehoboth, Oceanographic Survey vessel, from mechanism of Nansen bottle, at 2,000 meters, Station No. RE 6-14 (187514) ; (through Mrs. Helen Landau Hayes) 6 galatheids (188923) ; (through W. H. Littlewood) 6 lots of plankton (190901).

National Naval Medical Center: (Through Dr. Ernst Schwarz) 11 amphibians and reptiles collected by Dr. Schwarz in Venezuela in 1950 (190186).

Naval Medical Research Institute, Bethesda, Md.: (Through Commander H. S. Hurlbut) 1 mosquito collected at Seat Pleasant, Md. (188370).

Naval Medicait Research Unit No. 3, Cairo, Egypt: 30 plants collected in Arabia by Robert H. Kuntz (1903880).

Naval Medical School, Bethesda, Md.: (Through Dr. Ernst Schwarz) 2 crabs and 1 isopod from Venezuela (188457); 8 plants collected in Venezuela by EH. Schwarz and P. J. Anduze (189171).

Office of Naval Research, Washington, D. C.: 562 plants of the Aleutian Islands, collected mostly by Louis H. Jordal (180008) ; about 100 samples of Recent and Pleistocene Foraminifera from the vicinity of Point Barrow, Alaska, collected by A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and G. EH. MacGinitie in summer 1950 (188674) ; 1 microsample of Pleistocene age from Point Barrow, Alaska, collected by Dr. Ira L. Wiggins (188769) ; 14 bottom samples from the Arctic Ocean, collected by Lt. Don Jones (188770) ; 263 plants collected in the Brooks Range of Alaska by Louis H. Jordal (190953) ; (through Prof. and Mrs. G. E. MacGinitie) approximately 7,427 marine invertebrates, approximately 100 echinoderms,

DEFENSE, DEPARTMENT oF—Continued 1,000 mollusks, 55 fishes, 4 algae, and insect specimens collected at Point Barrow (187058) : (through Dr. Ira L. Wiggins) 22 birds and 77 mammals collected by the late Rodgers D. Hamilton (188696) ; (through Prof. Ralph W. Macy) 417 fresh-water mollusks from Oregon and Washington (190048). (See also under National Research Council, Pacific Science Board.)

Bureau of Ordnance, Washington, D. C.: 164 specimens of United States Ordnance equipment (180105).

Bureau of Ships, Washington, D. C.: Models of the U. S. S. Brooklyn, period of 1895 to 1921, an LSM-4 and an LCI of the period of World War II (191118, loan) ; model of battleship, U. S. S. Missouri as it appeared on Sept. 2, 1945, when aboard it the articles of surrender were signed, ending the war with Japan (189690, loan).

DE FOLLIART, GENE R., Ithaca, N. Y.: 2 pupae of blackflies from New York (188280).

DEForEST, Dr. Ler, Los Angeles, Calif. : (Through deForest-Sanabria Corporation) deForest type F-5 radiophone broadcast receiver (189822).

DE OLIverRA, Dr. LEJEUNE. (See under Dr. Lee deForest.)

DE FrRangas, V. C. (See under Servico de Piscicultura.)

DEGENER, Dr, Otto, Waialua, Oahu, T. H.: 225 plants from Hawaii (187318, 188874, 190478).

DEIGNAN, HERBERT G., Washington, D. C.: 7 phanerogams from Maryland (187823).

DE LAUBENFELS, Dr. M. W., Honolulu, T. H.: 18 sponges including types of 9 new species (187056). (See also under National Research Council, Pacific Science Board.)

bE Leon, Dr. W. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Army.)

DE Mrsa, PEepRo, Manila, P. I.: (Through Heathcote M. Woolsey) 1 shell from Samar, Philippine Islands (187838).

Dempsey, Sgt. WiLtttAmM C., Arlington, Va.: 1 Darlot Combination Lens Set consisting of carrying case, brass lens body, 6 lenses, and 7 Waterhouse stops (189066).

DE OLIVETRA, Dr. LEJEUNE. Instituto Oswaldo Cruz.)

DE PRINCE, FRANK, Alexandria, Va.: French cuirass and helmet ca. 1835 (189120).

See under 
<<<87>>>
DE Souza Lopes, Dr. H., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Approximately 150 marine mollusks from Brazil (191161, exchange).

DerrorT’s 250TH BIRTHDAY FESTIVAL, Ine., Detroit, Mich.: (Through Berrien Haton) 2 medallions commemorating the 250th anniversary of the city of Detroit (189988).

Draz NAgERA, ALFoNnSsO. (See under Instituto de Salubridad y Enfermedades Tropicales. )

DIppELL, Mrs. W. D., Jacksonville, Fla.: 1 fern from Florida (187385).

Dogprovouny, Dr. CHARLES G. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. S. Public Health Service, Bethesda, Md.)

DOoNALDSON, Dr. LAUREN R. (See under University of Washington, School of Fisheries.)

DONNELLEY & Sons Co., R. R., Chicago, Ill.: Copy, negatives, plates, and proofs showing step-by-step process of halftone reproduction (190483).

Dorf, Rev. Fr. THomas-Lovuis, Chicoutimi, Quebec: (Through Douglas Leechman) 8 bones of a passenger pigeon, from Tadoussac, Quebec (186567).

Dorr, Jack. (See under U. §S. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

Doty, Prof. MAxweE Lu S. University of Hawaii.)

Dovuetas, Justice WILLIAM O., Washington, D. C.: 134 plants from Lebanon collected by the donor (189945).

Dow, Dr. RicH Arp P., Thomasville, Ga.: 128 mosquitoes, representing 15 species, from Iran (188778).

DRAKE, Dr. C. J., Ames, Iowa: 1 shorebug from Brazil and 1 from Colorado (187679, exchange) ; 25 shorebugs, 35 beetles, and 1 fiy from Mexico (188889, 189124) ; 1 shorebug and 1 water scorpion (189828); 2 marsh traders from Panama (189963, exchange).

DreEISBACH, R. R., Midland, Mich.: 6 scarab beetles (189071, exchange). DREYFUS, Louis G. (See under Ish-

pushtu Coal Mines.)

Dryanver, Mrs. Hpiru, Tulua, Valle, Colombia: 1 plant collected in Colombia (188986).

Duckwortu, A. S., Cape Girardeau, Mo.: 4 Silurian erinoids from the vicinity of Cape Girardeau (187678, exchange) ; 1 slide, 11 specimens, of Holothurian plates from Pennsylvanian rocks at Mineral Wells, Tex. (187701, exchange).

(See under

DuMBAULD, Capt. C. M., Coco Solo, C. Z.: 1 marine mollusk from Panama (187954).

Dun, Dr. G. 8., Keravat, New Britain: 40 land mollusks from New Britain (191185).

DuNDEE, Harotp A., Lawrence, Kans.: 4 cephalopod mollusks from off Beaufort, N.C. (188307).

Dunuap, Minerva F., Bowdoinham, Maine: 1 lichen (187435).

pU Pont DE Nemours & Co., INc., E. I., Nylon Division, Wilmington, Del.: An exhibit showing the manufacture, properties, and versatility of nylon yarn (189214).

Dursin, Dr. CHaries. (See under U. S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Center.)

DurHaM, A. L., Ashland, Oreg.: A thunder egg from Pridy Ranch, 17

miles northeast of Madras, Oreg. (190234). DurHAM, Dr. J. Wyatt, Berkeley,

Calif.: 10 land mollusks from Colombia (188703). (See also under University of California.)

Dutton, Dr. BertHa P. Museum of New Mexico.)

Hans, Dr. RicHarp. (See under Texas State Department of Health.)

Hasson, Mrs. Letra, Washington, D. C.: 17 twentieth-century bookplates, 14 designed by George W. Fuller and 3 by other artists (190004).

EastMAN Kopaxk Co., Rochester, N. Y.: (Through R. W. Brown) 6 color prints from the derivation process developed by Hastman Kodak Co. (187705).

EATON, BERRIEN. (See under Detroit's 250th Birthday Festival, Inc.)

Eaton, CHARLES E., Washington, D. C.: 1 view camera and 2 plate holders (189825).

Eaton Paper Corp., Laura Lee Linder Fine Leather Division, Pittsfield, Mass.: 1 tangerine-red leather cigarette box, 1 avocado-green leather engagement book, 1 sumac-red leather portfolio, and 8 samples of calfskin leathers (186735).

EcoLtE p’AGRICULTURE, Rimouski, Que-

(See under

bee: 31 grasses from Canada (188737).

EconoMiIc CooPpERATION ADMINISTRAtion, Athens, Greece: (Through O.

Perry Riker) 1 smithsonite specimen from the Camareza mine, Laurium, Greece (187747).

Epcerty, Raymonp H., Redlands, Calif. : Types of 3 new species of nematodes parasitic in lizards, from California and Arizona (189374).

Epmonpson, Dr. C. H., Honolulu, T. H.: 2 aleyonarians (186970); 2 hippas (187054) ; 2 crabs (188794). (See also under Bernice P. Bishop Museum.)

Epwarps, Matcorm G. (See under North Carolina State Wildlife Resources Commission. ) 
<<<88>>>
E1setey, Dr. Loren C. (See under Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research.)

Eriis, H. A. (See under Government of Western Australia, Geological Survey of Western Australia.)

Evtis, T. KenNeTtTH, Belleair, Fla.: 9 shrimps, 2 isopods, and 246 amphipods (190041).

EMMERSON, Mrs. CATHERINE, Washington, D. C.: Silver teaspoon by Benjamin Hurd, Boston, 1731-1789 (190791).

ENGLISH, Mrs. M. A., Chevy Chase, Md. : 2 albums of stereoscopic views of various scenes throughout the world. 4 early photographs of the city of Washington, 9 stereoscopic glass-plate views of United States Battleships, 24 photographs of American Indians, 20 large glass-plate negatives of the city of Washington and of the inauguration of President William Howard Taft (188645).

EppLr, Pau, Fusagasuga, Cundinamarca, Colombia: 3 plants from Colombia (190831).

ErpMAN, Donatp §S., Billings, Mont.: Approximately 1,000 fresh-water and land mollusks from Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana (188784).

EXscotaA AGRONOMICA DA BaAuHtTA, Bahia, Brazil: 79 grasses from Brazil collected by Dr. Geraldo Carlos P. Pinto (188116, 190737).

Escota NACIONAL DE AGRONOMIA, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (Through Dr. A. da Costa Lima) 2 butterflies from Brazil (189074).

ESCUELA AGRICOLA PANAMERICANA, Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 2 grasses from Honduras (188763, 189686) ; 2 plants collected in Honduras (189879) ; 1 plant collected in Costa Rica by P. H. Allen (190954) ; (through Dr. Louis O. Williams) 617 Honduras plants (190525, 191063).

EscugELtA NACIONAL DE AGRICULTURA,

Chinandega, Nicaragua: 12 plants collected in Nicaragua (188938, 189685).

ESTACION EXPERIMENTAL AGRONOMICA, Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: (through J. Acuia) 7 grasses from Cuba (189169); (through Dr. S. C. Bruner) 5 beetles from Herradura, Cuba (189888); a type specimen of the bug Macrocephalus julianus from Cuba (191082).

ESstTaci6N HiIDROBIOLOGICA DE ROSARIO, Rosario, Argentina: (Through Dr. Osear A. Canzio) 23 fresh-water mussels from Rio Parana (191120).

Evans, Dr. ALEXANDER W. (See under Yale University, Osborn Botanical

Laboratory.)

Evans, Dr. Howarp E., Manhattan, Kans.: 12 wasps (190237).

Evans, Mrs. Z. Bonn, Baltimore, Md.: A plant from Maryland (190742). Evitt, Dr. WitLtiAM, Rochester, N. Y.: 9 type specimens of Upper Ordovician and Martinsburg invertebrate fossils from Maryland and 388 type specimens of silicified trilobites from Middle Ordovician rocks in the vicinity of

Strasburg, Va. (189021).

Ewan, JoserpH. (See under University. )

EWERS, JOHN C. Wells. )

EXPERIMENTAL PLANTATIONS, Inc., Chicacao, Guatemala: 1 plant from Costa Rica (188183).

EYERDAM, WALTER J., Seattle, Wash.: 1 lichen (187752); 1 lichen from Alaska (189161).

Facer, Prof. Louis, Paris, France: A specimen of a Recent brachiopod from off west coast of Africa (189882, exchange).

FASssBenpER, Aporr, New York, N. Y.: 78% pictorial prints for special exhibition during February 1951 (189724,

Tulane

(See under J. Robert

loan). Fassert, Dr. Norman C., Madison, Wis.: 3 plants from Colombia (187818).

Fast, Francis R., New York, N. Y¥.: 1 finger painting (untitled) by donor (189956).

U. S. Public Health Service, Anchorage, Alaska: (Through Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson) 25 amphipods (187917); (through Everett L. Schiller) 9 rodents from St. Lawrence Island and Adak Island, Alaska (188251); (through Dr. Robert Rausch) 34 fresh-water and land shells from Alaska (188412) ; approximately 24 land mollusks from the Brooks Range, Alaska (189082); (through Dr. Robert Rausch) 4 bears, 2 wolverines, 1 shrew, 20 tree squirrels, 20 microtine rodents, a weasel, and a lynx from the Brooks Range, Alaska (190405) ; 1 marine mollusk from Amchitka Island, Alaska (190656) ; (through Dr. Laurence Irving) 692 bird skins, 35 sets of birds’ eggs (168 eggs), and 31 birds’ nests (188695).

U.S. Public Health Service, Atlanta, Ga.: (Through Dr. Harry D. Pratt) 1 mosquito from Indo-China (190404).

U.S. Public Health Service, Bethesda, Md.: (Through Dr. Charles G. Dobrovolny) 3 snakes from Puerto San José, Guatemala, collected by Dr. Dobrovolny (187734) ; (through
<<<89>>>
FEDERAL SEcuRITY AgmrNcy—Continued Dr. Louis J. Olivier) 25 fresh-water snails from near Belem, Para, Brazil (188284); (through Dr. W. H. Wright) 5 mosquitoes from Tahiti (190887) ; 20 medically important mollusks from the Dominican Republic (191187).

U. S. Public Health Service, Cincinnati, Ohio: (Through Dr. William M. Ingram) 5 fresh-water clams from Wilmington, Ohio (187745).

U. S. Public Health Service, Hamilton, Mont.: 17 mammals (1872388) : (through Dr. William L. Jellison) 10 coccinellid beetles from Montana (187591) ; 1 beetle from Montana (188200) ; 47 land and fresh-water snails from Montana and Idaho and 2 plants (1883856) ; 25 fresh-water mollusks from Montana (188628) ; 1 beetle, 2 scorpion flies, and 1 fly from Montana (189099); 56 alcoholie bats from Arizona, California, and Nevada (189852, 189926) ; (through James Brennan) 19 mites from Montana and California (188445).

FERRIERE, Dr. CHARLES. (See under Museum of Natural History, Geneva, Switzerland.)

HIicHter, Hers, Alexandria, Va.: 49 engravings for special exhibition dur-

ing June and July 1951 (191148, loan: ) Finicr, Frank P. (See under Cali-

fornia State Department of Public Health.)

Fisu, Dr. Cuar_es J., Kingston, R. I.: 1 crab (190116).

FISHER, WILLIAM, Silver, Ark., and Dr. Hueco D. Miser, Washington, D. C.: Large twinned quartz crystal from Wisher Mountain, Ark. (189828).

Fuaee, ArtHurR L., Phoenix, Ariz.: Samarskite, azurite, and carnotite from Arizona (190646); unknown copper-lead mineral (black cubes, U. S. National Museum X-ray film No. 513), from the Higgins mine, Bisbee, Ariz. (190648).

FLAHAUT, Mrs. MartHa R. (See under University of Washington, Washington State Museum. )

HWLEETWOOD, RAyMoNnD J. (See under U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

I"LETCHER, D. S. (See under Government, British Museum tural History) .)

Frocks, Dr. Miuron, Arlington, Va.: Palmwood bow and 8 arrows of several types collected during World Wax Ii from a Melanesian village near Empress Augusta Bay, western Bougainville, Solomon Islands (191096).

InoripA, UNIverstry or, Gainesville, Fla.: 2 grasses from Mlorida (187879,

British (Na-

187881); (through Dr. H. Lowe

Pierce) 23 chaetognaths (187275, ex-

change) ; 18 marine invertebrate and

echinoderm specimens (188020).

FLORIDA SOUTHERN CoLirncE, Lakeland, Fla.: 5 grasses (188760).

FLorgipa STATE BOARD OF CONSERVATION, Tallahassee, Fla.: (Through Robert M. Ingle) 2 stomatopods (188455).

FLoRIDA STATE UNIVERSITY, Tallahassee,

Fla.: 20 grasses from Florida, collected by Curtis R. Jackson (188536).

Marine Biological Laboratory: (Through Dr. Harold J. Humm) Approximately 277 marine invertebrates (186261) ;5 marine mollusks, including types, from Florida (187088) ; 2 crabs, approximately 384 marine invertebrates, 5 echinoderms, and 5 mollusks (187488) ; approximately 100 amphipods (188991).

Foop AND AGRICULTURE CRGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS, Washington D. C.: 47 plants collected in Guatemala and British Honduras by Dr. A. T. Semple (186889) ; 83 plants collected

in Cyprus by Dr. A. T. Semple (1873382); 23 plants collected in Curacao by Dr. A. T. Semple (189112).

ForATTINI, Dr. O. P., S80 Paulo, Brazil: 7 assassin bugs from Brazil (189692, exchange).

ForREIGN Economic ADMINISTRATION, Washington, D. C.: 39 plants collected in Peru by W. H. Hodge (188872).

FORESTRY COMMISSION of NEW SoutH Watss, Sydney, Australia: (Through Dr. P. Hadlington) 6 beetles from New South Wales (190673).

WorNEY, RatpuH, Arlington, Va.: Pair of German aviator’s flying boots of the period of World War II (187417).

Fosuag, Dr. WitttAmM F., Washington, D. C.: 4 small diamond crystals with green inclusions (187700).

Foster, Mrs. Gwrnpotyn M., Arlington, Va.: 2 trap-door spiders and trap found in ground under privet hedge in Arlington, Va. (188189).

Foster, Mutrorp B., Orlando, Fla.: 2 plants from tropical America cultivated by Mr. Foster (1873819); 6 plants collected in South America (189442).

Fostrr, WriLL1AM J., Arlington, Va.: 1 deweylite specimen from Bluemont quarry, near Hereford, Baltimore County, Md. (188277).

Fox, Dr, Irvine, San Juan, P. R.: 22 biting midges from Puerto Rico (188941).

FRANCLEMONT, JoHN G., Washington, D. C.: 17 moths from New York (189296). 
<<<90>>>
Franco, Prof. Rur. (See under Universidade de Sao Paulo.)

FREEMAN, PAun. (See under British Government, British Musewm (Natural History).)

Freeman, T. N. (See under Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture, Division of Hntomology.)

Frey, Danie. (See under Harry Winston, Ine.)

Frey, Grorc, Munich, Germany: 101 beetles from the Old World (185238, exchange).

Wrick, KennetH #., Prosser, Wash.: 2 paratypes of flies (190883).

Frat, K. H., Tremonton, Utah: 6 Cambrian, Mississippian, and Pennsylvanian invertebrates from Utah (189357).

FRIEDMANN, Dr. HERBERT, Washington, D. C.: Approximately 80 marine mollusks together with echinoderms and approximately 100 barnacles from Denmark and Italy (187273).

F'R1zzELL, Dr. Don L., Rolla, Mo.: 6 paratypes of Foraminifera from Cretaceous and WHocene of Texas (190277).

FRONDEL, Dr. C. University. )

FunDAcION Micuen. Litto, Tucumaén, Argentina: 3 ferns and 4 plants from

(See under Harvard

Argentina (186890, 187695); 153 plants collected in Brazil by B. Rambo (188494, exchange); 280

plants collected in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, by B. Rambo (189291, exchange) ; 256 plants from southern Brazil (190714, exchange) ; (through Dr. Kenneth Hayward) 5 pierid butterflies from Argentina (188192) ; (through F. Monrés) 19 beetles from Argentina (189802).

GArERSTE, Dr. THomMAsS, Curacao, Dutch West Indies: 1 scorpion from Dutch West Indies (190212).

GAISER, Dr. LULU O., Cambridge, Mass. : 9 plants from eastern United States (188131).

GALLowAy, J. C., Punta Gorda, Fla.: Approximately 36 marine invertebrates (188005); 1 lot tunicates (189911).

GALTSorF, Dr. Paut S. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

GaRDNER, Dr. Junta. (See under Dr. Kotora Hatai.)

GATES, JAMES F.., Silver Spring, Md.: 1 gray fox from Rock Creek Park, Washington, D. C. (188945).

GENERAL HLEoTRIC Co., Richland, Wash. : (Through Jared J. Davis) 365 freshwater mollusks from the Columbia River area, Washington (187434).

Gentry, Dr. Howarp Scorr, Los Angeles, Calif.: 86 plants from Mexico

and Nevada collected by Dr. Gentry (187877).

GEOLOGISOH-PALAEONTOLOGISOHES INSTITUT UND Muszum, Bonn, Germany: 6 brachiopods from Zillee b. Misol, Hast Indies (190100, exchange).

Groraz, W. D. (See under U. S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards.)

GEORGIA, UNIVERSITY or, Athens, Ga.: A grass from Georgia (190956).

GmETz, DorotHy, Auckland, New Zealand: 1 mollusk from New Zealand (190757).

GIBgpoNs, Mrs. MInNIz Patmer, McLean, Va.: Oil portrait on cardboard of 5-year-old girl, Helen B. Palmer, painted by itinerant artists (190793).

GiILMorE, Dr. RayMonpD M., Washington, D.C.: A tapir skeleton from Colombia (191119). (See also under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

Ginfés, Brother, Caracas, Venezuela: 522 plants collected in Venezuela (188948, 190741).

GIVAN, KENNETH, Dania, Fla.: Pottery vessel (incomplete) excavated from Pit 16, Townsend site, Lewes, Sussex County, Del., by donor (191188).

GLENN, Dr. L. C., Nashville, Tenn.: 5 Hocene echinoids (188636) ; 7 fossil oysters from the Santee Canal of the Santee-Cooper Hydroelectric Project near Moncks Corner, 8. ©. (188707) ; 150 Pliocene bryozoans from South Carolina (189718).

GonzAtrz, Dr. JENARO, Mexico, D. F.: 4 specimens of minium and 1 of carnotite from Mexico (190588).

GoopcHILp, Dr. C. G., Springfield, Mo.: Holotype and 4 paratypes of a parasitic annelid worm from a squirrel treetoad captured in Dade County, Fla. (188628).

GoopMAN & THerIsR, Inc., New York, N. Y.: 3 silk Paisley fabrics (190836).

GOODNIGHT, CLARENCE J., Lafayette, Ind.: 41 shrimps, 10 crabs, 40 insects and mites, from Mexico and Guatemala (188925).

GorMAN, ALBERT P., La Paz, Bolivia: (Through Dr. T. Dale Stewart) 8 fragmentary pottery specimens of classie Tiahuanaco type, collected from the “Tiahuanaco area” (187454).

GorMAN, D. H., Toronto, Ontario: 1 uraniferous “opal” or “coalite” specimen from the Nicholson Mine, north Saskatchewan (189658).

GosLine, Dr. WILLIAM A. University of Hawaii.)

Goss, Col. B. C. and Henry J. Jongs, Oakfield, Ga.: 4 red mutant bobwhites from Georgia (188852).

(See under 
<<<91>>>
GouLtp, Dovenas. (See under University of California.)

GRAHAM, Dr. Davin C., Englewood, Colo.: A large brass hairpin from the Ch’in of Burma and a brass cover of an earthenware vessel recovered from a slate tomb in western Szechwan, China (188531).

GraHAaM, Mrs. M. Hpna. (See under Judge William J. Graham, deceased.)

GraHaM, O. H. Kerrville, Tex.: 17 miscellaneous insects from New Guinea

(187686).

GraHamM, Judge Wu1iam J. (deceased): (Through Mrs. M. Hdna Graham) Archeological materials

from various localities in Maryland, Virginia, New York, Pennsylvania, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Arkansas, West Virginia, Illinois, and Arizona, representing a series selected in the Division of Archeology from a large collection assembled by the late Judge Graham (187689).

GRANDLE, WARREN, Pierre, S. Dak.: Skull and right humerus of Indian from Grandle farm, Hughes County, S. Dak (191100).

GRAVELL, Dr. D. W., Havana, Cuba: 8 foraminiferal samples and 4 slides of Foraminifera from the Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary of Cuba (190556, exchange).

GREENFIELD, RAy H., Honolulu, T. H.: 1 vial and 1 lot of amphipods (187916, 188419) ; approximately 30 amphipods from Oahu (189317) ; approximately 125 amphipods, 2 shrimps, 11 isopods, and 10 copepods (190172) ; 96 amphipods (190211).

GREENWoop, Dr. and Mrs. ArtHur M.., Marlborough, Mass.: Collection of artifacts of American home life of the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries: Furniture; ceramics; glassware; pewter; brass and copper utensils; lighting devices; wrought-iron utensils and house hardware; rural art in form of paintings, samplers, silhouettes, drawings, woodcarving; embroideries ; textiles; weaving and spinning equipment; trade and advertising material; schoolroom furnishings ; forge equipment ; broom-making equipment; surveying equipment; shoemaking equipment (182022).

GRENIER, Dr. P., Paris, France: 44 black flies from France (187771, exchange).

Gressitt, J. L., Hong Kong, China: 14 beetles, including types, from China (187926).

Grey, Dr. Jonn H., Jr., Williamsburg, Va.: 1 house wren (187849).

Griea, Mr. and Mrs. James A., Cairns, Queensland: Approximately 350 marine shells from Western Australia (191186, exchange).

GriscH, HILDEGARDE, Weehawken, N. J.: United States flag of the period of the Spanish-American War (188468).

GropHAuUs, Gait, Pomona, Calif.: 30

fly larvae from United States (191080).

Gross, Harotp W., Arlington, Va.: Skeleton of Russian wolf hound (187765).

GRoSsMAN, HERBERT R., Washington,

D. C.: Admiral Dewey medal dated 1899 (187891).

GuILD, WILLIAM, St. Petersburg, Fla.: 1 plant from Florida (190274).

GuLtF Om Corporation, New York, N. Y.: About 1,500 Cretaceous and Tertiary invertebrate fossils from Venezuela (190637).

GUNCKEL L., Prof. H., Santiago, Chile: 183 grasses from Chile (189915).

Gunter, Dr. Gorpon. (See under University of Texas, Institute of Marine Science.)

GuRNEY, Dr. A. B., Washington, D. C.: Approximately 800 insects, mostly book lice, from southern Brazil, collected at Nova Teutonia, Sta. Catha-

rina, Brazil, by EF. Blaumann (188304). GuTHE, Dr. AtFreep K. (See under Rochester Museum of Arts and Sciences).

HABE, TADASHIGE. (See under Kyoto University, Zoological Institute.)

Hack, Maj. Vincent I., Falls Church, Va.: 2 Japanese block prints by the donor: ‘‘Cho Cho San’’—obverse and “Cho Cho San’—reverse (191170).

HADERLIE, Dr. BE. C., Monterey, Calif. : 10 slides of holotypes and paratypes of 8 new species of trematodes and cestodes from California (190597).

HADLINGTON, Dr. P. (See under Forestry Commission of New South Wales. )

HAaLe, Dr. Mason E., Madison, Wis.: 170 lichens from Connecticut collected by Dr. Hale (188631, exchange) ; 10 lichens from Baffin Island (188801).

Hatt, Dr. E. Raymonp. (See under University of Kansas, Museum of Natural History.)

Haier, Bert L., Cincinnati, Ohio: A pair of all-metal ice skates marked “Shirley’s patents, April 12, 1859, June 25, 1861,” and “Hawkins patent, March 28, 1865, William Hawkins, Derby, Conn.” (190259).

Ham, Wrettam E., Norman, Okla.: 9 specimens of Middle Ordovician inarticulate brachiopods from Oklahoma (187758).

Hanp, Caper, Oakland, Calif.: 3 lots of hydroids (188321).

HANKINS, J. Haprn, Richmond, Va.: 10 samples of diatomaceous earth from Richmond (188936). 
<<<92>>>
HANNAFORD, Mrs. GuApys B., New York, N. Y.: 1 specimen of chrome-diopside from Kimberley, South Africa (188134).

Hansen, A. H.: 5 fragmentary Indian skulls from Babcock Mound B, near Kansas City, Mo. (146778).

Hanson, Mary Lovuisr, Lincoln, Nebr. : 3 holotypes and 1 lot of paratypes of 3 new species of trematodes (188950).

HANTZScHEL, Dr. W., Hamburg, Germany: 64 Tertiary seeds from Germany (188179, exchange).

Hanzawa, Dr. S., Sendai, Japan: 14 specimens of Foraminifera from the Oligocene of North Borodino, Loochoo Group, Japan (188136) ; 25 topotypes of Foraminifera (190642).

HARDENBERG, Dr, J. D. F. (See under Laboratorium Penjelidikan Laut.)

HaArpInG, T. SWANN, Falls Church, Va.: 7 pieces of German notgeld of the post-World-War-I inflation period and 38 notes of Austria dated 1920 (187997).

Harpwick, D. F. (See under Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture, Canadian National Collection. )

Harpy, Dr. D. Ermo, Honolulu, T. H.: 4 flies from Neotropical region (187763) ; 2 big-headed flies from Brazil and 8 fruit flies from Australia, including types (188050) ; 58 flies (190884).

Harpy, Jerry D., Jr.: 14 amphipods from John Friends Cave, Sang Run, Garrett County, Md. (187945).

HARRELL, Byron BE. (See under University of Minnesota, Minnesota Museum of Natural History.)

Harris, Dr. H. M., Ames, Iowa: 4 stinkbugs from United States (190486, exchange).

Harrison, Dr. B. F. (See under Brigham Young University.)

Harrison, Dr. E. 8., Burlington Junction, Mo.: Portion of skull of a Pleistocene peccary from gravel bed near Burlington Junction (189011).

Harry WINSTON, Inc., New York, N. Y.: (Through Daniel Frey) An emerald from the Ural Mountains (190551).

Harvarp UNtIversiry, Cambridge,

Mass.: 4 mineral specimens: thalenite, fergusonite, lyndochite, and ellsworthite from various localities in Canada (191110); (through Dr. C. Frondel) 4 specimens of sabugalite with meta-autunite from Kariz, Minho and Mina de Quarto Siera, Sabugal, Portugal; one of mineral X from Katanga, Belgian Congo (190647, exchange).

Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plain, Mass.: 51 Mexican ferns (188329,

HARVARD UNIVERSITY—Continued exchange); 31 grasses from the Philippines (188920).

Farlow Herbarium: 133 algae (190633, exchange).

Gray Herbarium: 1,509 plants, mostly from the eastern United States and Newfoundland (187674, exchange) ; 2 fragments of Bromeliaceae type specimens (188349, exchange) ; 119 plants collected in the West Indies by R. A. Howard (191102).

Museum of Comparative Zoology: (Through Arthur Loveridge) 23 crabs collected in East Africa (184— 117) ; 1 snake from Amani, Usambara Mountains, Tanganyika, collected by Mr. Loveridge in 1926 (188245, exchange) ; (through William J. Clench) approximately 1,000 miscellaneous mollusks including paratypes (190406, exchange) ; approximately 100 land and fresh-water snails from Africa and Arabia (191089, exchange) ; (through Dr. Joseph Bequaert) 2 ants (190848); 3 ants from New Mexico and California (191115, exchange).

Harvey, Prof. H. NEwTon. Princeton University.) Hassrouck, Dr. E. M., Washington,

D. C.: 1 new Mexican duck (1906381).

Harar, Dr. Korora, Sendai, Japan: (Through Dr. Julia Gardner) 14 Cretaceous fossils from Japan (188678).

HatcH, Dr. MELVILLE, Seattle, Wash., and J. B. WALLIS, Winnipeg, Manitoba: 4 beetles from Washington (188103).

HatscHBAcH, GEERT, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil: 95 plant specimens from Parana (187754) ; 54 plants collected in Brazil (190093).

Hartori, Dr. SINSUKE, Kyushu, Japan: 10 algae (188334) ; 50 Japanese Hepaticae (189827) ; 50 mosses (191105).

HaAvUKE, Harotp A. (See under University of Nebraska.)

HAVILAND, Prof. HiizAnerH 2H. under University of Maryland.)

Hawall, TreRRITORY OF, Department of Health, Honolulu, T. H.: (Through Dr. David D. Bonnet) 7 amphipods (188473).

HAWAII, UNIVERSITY OF, Honolulu, T. H.: 19 plants from Hawaii collected by E. Y. Hosaka (189782) ; (through Dr. William A. Gosline) 48 fishes, including 2 holotypes and 3 paratypes, from the Hawaiian Islands (187124, 188672, exchange) ; (through Prof. Maxwell S. Doty) 7 amphipods (187727) ; (through Dr. Robert W. Hiatt) 33 birds, 1 lizard, and a bat from the Pacific Islands (190523) ;

(See under

(See 
<<<93>>>
(through Spencer Tinker) 1 hermit erab (187842).

Haypocx, Maj. Epwarp L., Luanshya, Northern Rhodesia: 3 African bird skins (190270).

Hayes, Dr. CartyreE R. (See under Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.)

Hayes, Doris. (See under U. 8. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service.)

Haves, Mrs. Heten Lanpav. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, Hydrographic Office.)

Haywarpb, Dr. KennetH J., Tucuman, Argentina : Holotype and 2 paratypes of a moth from Argentina (190652). (See also under Fundacién Miguel Lillo.)

HepePeTH, Dr. JoEL W., Berkeley, Calif. : 9 topotypes of shrimps (187619); 5 pycnogonid types (188561) ; 11 amphipods from Baffin Bay, Tex. (189098) ; approximately 100 copepods (190948) ; a holotype of a marine slug from Port Aransas (191088).

Heriporn, George, Washington, D. C.: 1 British naval cutlass, period 1800— 1820 (189222).

Heratp, Dr. Hart S. (See under California Academy of Sciences.) HeERBARIO “BARBOSA RODRIGUES,” Itajai,

Santa Catarina, Brazil: 6 plants from Brazil (190795) ; 298 plants collected in Brazil by Pe. Raulino Reitz and

associates (190899).

Herre, Dr. A. W. C. T., Olympia, Wash. : 3 eryptogams from the United States (188333, exchange). (See also under University of Washington, School of Fisheries.)

Hess, FRANK L., Bethesda, Md.: 1 specimen of glaucophane from Battle Lake, 9 miles northeast of Perkins, Quebec (187966). (See also under Ralph A. Dabney.)

Hewatt, Prof. Wi1.1s G., Fort Worth, Tex.: 8 chitons from Puerto Rico (173473).

Hiatt, Dr. Rosperr W. versity of Hawaii.)

HILDEBRAND, Henry, Port Aransas, Tex.: 9 echinoderms (190784).

Hittyer Funp, Vireit M., Smithsonian Institution: A pottery splint holder, a pottery lamp, and a brass lamp stand with pottery lamp (191094).

Hitprert, Lowert §., Grand Junction, Colo.: 1 hewettite specimen from the Joe Dandy mine, Paradox Valley, Montrose County (189048).

Hinton, George B., Presidio, Tex.: A vanadinite specimen from San Carlos mine, Chihuahua, Mexico (191069).

Hironcock, H. B., Middlebury, Vt.: 1 bat-bug from Vermont (187708).

(See under Uni-

Hosss, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottesville, Va.: 255 crayfish, including 3 type specimens collected by Mr. Shoup (189478).

HoBERLANDT, Dr. Lupvix. (See under Narodni Museum V Praze.)

HOoEDEMAN, Dr. J. J., Amsterdam, Hol-

land: 5 gorgonians (190365). (See also under Zodlogish Museum.) Horprrii, Dr. R., Peking, China: 30

fresh-water mollusks from China (190988).

HoFrrMaAN, RicHarp I.., Clifton Forge, Va.: 2 bugs. 1 beetle, and 1 fish fly from Virginia (187046).

HoFFMASTER, RicHarD H., Pittsburgh, Pa.: 26 flatworms and _ isopods (189406).

Hotzis, Dr. Ep¢ar H. (See under U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

Ho.tTaurs, Dr. L. B., Leiden, Holland: 9 aleyonarians (188922). (See also under Rijksmuseum Van Natuurijke Historie. )

Homiar, Harvey, Salerno, Ma.: 1 polychaete (183053).

HonAMAN, R. K. (See under Bell Telephone Laboratories.)

Horxins, Dr. Davin M. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

HopKins Marine S§ration, Pacific Grove, Calif.: (Through Dr. Donald P. Abbott) 94 slides of polynoid polychaetes (190820).

HORNUNG, CLARENCE P., New York, N. Y.: Portfolio of 12 hand-colored prints of early American automobiles (190228).

HorcHxiss, Nett. (See under U.8. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

Hortrs, F. C. (See under Mrs. L. P. Wherle. )

HovueH, Dr. JEAN. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

Houston, UNtverstry oF, Houston, Tex.: 1 grass from Texas (187317).

Hovr-Instituut, Delft, Netherlands: 345 study specimens of authentic woods of Surinam (189577, exchange).

Hovey, CHANDLER, Boston, Mass. : Model of the International J Class yacht Rainbow, America’s Cup defender of 1934 (188879).

Howe, D. F., Chula Vista, Calif.: 21 plants from California and Arizona, collected by donor (184960).

Hsv, Dr. H. F., Taipeh, Formosa, China : 200 specimens of a medically important mollusk from Formosa (190718).

Houpsarp, Dr. C. ANDRESEN, Tigard, Oreg.: 388 fleas and 250 mites, ticks, 
<<<94>>>
and lice, including a few paratypes, from California, Washington, Nevada, and other parts of the United States (187629).

HUEBELL, Dr. T. H. versity of Michigan.)

Houses, Dr. Ciarx, Austin, Tex.: 176 fishes (188181).

Houeues, Dr. R. H., Richmond, Va.; 6 mites, all types, from Richmond (188446).

Huu, Mrs. Harry, Honolulu, T. H.: Album of letters, personal and official, pertaining to the families of John Adams and John Quincy Adams (101 specimens) (187803, loan).

Humes, Dr. ArTHUR G., Boston, Mass. : Approximately 50 copepods (191034).

Hum, Dr. Harotp J. (See under Florida State University, Marine Biological Laboratory.)

HuNncERForD, Dr. H. B. University of Kansas. )

HUNNEWELL, FRANCIS W., Cambridge, Mass.: 14 plants collected in Shenandoah National Park, Va. (188836).

Hunter, Col. Grorce W., III. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Army.)

Hurp, Wittis H., Arlington, Va.: A siphonophore (1910382).

Hurieut, Commander H. 8. (See under Depariment of Defense, Department of the Navy, Naval Medical Research Institute.)

Hurst, Mrs. FANNIE MAg. Purdue University.)

Hurt, WESLEY R., Vermillion, S. Dak.: 1 lot of miscellaneous bones of a snow goose from archeological diggings in South Dakota (188310).

Hussey, R. F., Lakeland, Fla.: 12 water striders and bugs, including paratypes, from Florida (188183).

HUTOHISON, HLIZABETH, Washington, D. C.: United States Coast Guard SPAR officer’s summer uniform of the period of World War II, 7 specimens (187415).

Hurron, Prof. C. OssorNe, Stanford, Calif.: 1 huttonite specimen from South Westland, New Zealand (190094).

Horton, Mrs. DorotHy W., Philadelphia, Pa.: 40 prints in various media by Mrs. Hutton for special exhibition during December 1950 (189051, loan) ; 1 etching, “Adirondack Interlude,” by donor (189336).

IDAHO, UNIVERSITY OF, Moscow, Idaho: (Through Dr. William H. Baker) 1 cultivated fern (189766).

IcrL, AMELIA, Long Island, N. Y.: Pair of needlepoint suspenders worn by Herman Wurth in 1890 (189958).

ILLINOIS, UNIVERSITY oF, Urbana, IIl.:

969583—52—_6

(See under Uni-

(See under

(See under

16 photographs of phanerogams from New Caledonia (189711); (through Dr. Hobart M. Smith) 1 paratype of a snake from 8 miles southeast of Nochixtlin, Oaxaca, Mexico, collected by W. Leslie Burger (188028, exchange).

ILLINOIS STATE NATURAL History Survey Division, Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr. H. H. Ross) 2 paratypes of leafhoppers from Great Smoky Mountains (188718).

IMPERIAL Orn Limitep, Calgary, Alberta: 17 Devonian and Ordovician brachipods from Northwest Territories, Canada (189448).

InpIA, ZOOLOGICAL SURVEY or, Calcutta, India: (Through Dr. A. P. Kapur) 2 paratypes of beetles from India (190107).

INDIANA, UNIVERSITY or, Bloomington, Ind.: (Through Merle Jacobs) 3 vials of amphipods (1898383).

INFANTES V., JUANA G., Lima, Peru: 38 grasses from Peru (188985).

In@LE, Ropert M. (See under Florida State Board of Conservation. )

IneraM, Dr. Wirtiam M., Cincinnati, Ohio: 16 fresh-water mollusks from Alabama and Louisiana (189889). (See also under Federal Security Agency, U. 8. Public Health Service, Cincinnati, Ohio.)

INSTITUT DES RECHERCHES AGRONOMIQUES, Saigon, French Indo-China: 44 plants collected in Indo-China by P. A. Pételot (188492).

INSTITUT FRANCAIS D’AFRIQUE NOIRE, Dakar, French West Africa: (Through Dr. Th. Monod) 1 fish (188881, exchange).

INSTITUTE oF JAMAICA, Science Museum, Kingston, Jamaica: 99 ferns collected in Jamaica by George R. Proctor (187508, 188633) ; (through George R. Proctor) 1 fern from Jamaica (186664).

INstTITUTO AGRONOMICo Do NortE, Belém, Para, Brazil: 3 grasses from Brazil (191060) .

INSTITUTO DE BoTANICA DARWINION, San Isidro, Argentina : 326 plants collected in Argentina (187302, exchange).

INSTITUTO DE CIENCIAS NATURALES, Bogota, Colombia : 2 plants cultivated in Colombia (188634); 1,814 plants from Colombia (190740, exchange).

INSTITUTO DE GrOLOGiA, Mexico, D. F.: (Through Dr. A. R. V. Arellano) 9 plaster casts of miscellaneous fossil vertebrate specimens in the Instituto de Geologia from yarious localities in Mexico (189293).

INSTITUTO DE PESCA DEL PAcirico, Guaymag, Sonora, Mexico: (Through Dr. Rene Ntifiez) 281 shrimp (188686). 
<<<95>>>
INSTITUTO DE SALUBRIDAD Y HENFERMEDADES TROPICALES, Mexico, D. F.: (Through Alfonso Diaz Majera) 1 blackfly from Mexico (190244) ; (through Amado Martinez Palacios) 10 Mexican mosquitoes (190245).

INSTITUTO DE SANIDAD VEGETAL, José C. Paz, Argentina: (Through Dr. José Liebermann) 14 grasshoppers and crickets from Argentina and southern Brazil (187830, exchange) ; 10 grasshoppers from South America (188777).

INSTITUTO EXCUADORIANO DE NATURALES, Quito, Ecuador: plants from Ecuador (187898).

Instituto “Marpen”’, Ituiutaba, Brazil: 36 plants from Brazil (188340) ; 79 plants collected in Brazil by Dr. Amaro Macedo (1897138).

INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE HIGIENE, Caraeas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. A. L. Bricefio Rossi) 38 land and freshwater snails from Venezuela (186948) ; 21 fresh-water mollusks from Venezuela (187555).

INsTITUTO OswaLpo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: (Through Dr. Lejeune de Oliveira) 9 pelecypods from Guanabara Bay, Brazil (191160).

IntTERIoR, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF THE: Bureau of Mines, Washington, D. C.:

1 plant collected in Venezuela (189212).

Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C.: 450 fishes taken off coast of North and South Carolina, 1949— 50 by the Albatross III (187456) ; 1 plant from New Mexico (187820) ; 26 bird skins from Turkey, collected by Gardiner Bump (190224); 10 plants collected in United States (190227) ; 1 skeleton of a whooping erane (190472) ; 1 skull of a wood ibis (190951) ; 618 mammals (191157) ; 947 birds from various parts of North America (191169) ; (through Noble E. Buell) 2 coyotes from Morton County, N. Dak. (189734) ; (through Raymond J. Fleetwood) a collection of 7 mammals, 7 birds, reptiles, and amphibians, 188 fishes, 1 insect, 1 crayfish, and 5 plants from the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refugee, Ga., collected in part by Mr. Fleetwood (190263); (through Dr. Paul S. Galtsoff) 2 decapod Crustacea (189407) ; (through Dr. Raymond M. Gilmore) 3 skeletons of spotted dolphins from Gulf of Mexico, 20 miles off Port Aransas, Tex. (190717); (through Dr. Edgar H. Hollis) 18 shrimps (187272) ; (through Neil Hotchkiss) 8 plants collected in the eastern United States by the Fish and Wildlife Service (187-

INTERIOR, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF THE— Continued 320); (through Brooke Meanley) approximately 300 fresh-water snails from Stuttgart, Ark. (188682) ; 8 fresh-water mollusks from Arkansas (190247); (through Dr. Leslie W. Scattergood) 14 copepods (187914); (through Victor B. Scheffer) jaw of white whale from Pribilof Islands (187488) ; (through Robert O. Smith) 9 marine mollusks together with 2 corals and 3 starfishes from northern Venezuela (188785) ; (through H. J. Spencer) 2 rats from St. Croix, Virgin Islands (189072) ; (through Stewart Springer) 200 fishes from Gulf of Mexico (185983) ; 15 erabs and 1 echinoderm (187135) ; 3 fishes from stomachs of Huthynnus alletteratus, taken from the Gulf of Mexico off Galveston, Tex. (187219) ; 544 Crustacea, 20 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 25 mollusks and echinoderm specimens (187632) ; 6 fishes from the Gulf of Mexico, collected by the U. S. M/V Oregon, May and June 1950 (187699); (through Stewart Springer and Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 819 fishes collected in the Gulf of Mexico and the West Indies during eruise 5 of the U. S. M/V Oregon (188484); (through Stewart Springer and William Schroeder) 10 fishes, including 4 holotypes and 4 paratypes of new species of skates, and 1 holotype and 1 paratype of a new chimaeroid, all from the Gulf of Mexico, collected on the U. S. M/V Oregon by Stewart Springer (189215) ; (through Mark D. Worcester) 2 bobeats from Burleigh County, N. Dak. (190055). Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: 1 specimen of amber from Hale County, Ala. (187412); 3 allanite specimens from the Fulford mining

district, Eagle County, Colo. (187855) ; 9 mineral specimens: hewettite, pascoite, morenosite,

quisqueite, minasragrite, and melanovanadite from Minas Ragra, Peru (187885) ; 75 slides containing Mesozoie ostracodes, including 35 type specimens of 22 new species, from wells in North Carolina (188302); 128 type specimens of cephalopods described by W. A. Cobban (188442); approximately 350 type specimens representing 16 species of fresh-water Cretaceous mollusks from Cokeville Quadrangle, Wyo. described by T. C. Yen (188448) ; 1 ventifact of nephrite from 2 miles southeast of Sin
<<<96>>>
IntreRIor, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF THE— | INTERIOR, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF THE— Continued Continued

clair (Parco), Carbon County, Wyo. (188499) ; 13 fragments of core from deep wells in the Deep River coal field, N. C., containing numerous specimens of the crustacean Estheria (188640); 2 samples of Lower Cretaceous Foraminifera from Medina and Kendall Counties, Tenn. (188641) ; 300 mollusks from the Morrison formation (Upper Jurassic) of the Rocky Mountain region deseribed by Dr. Teng-Chien Yen (188676) ; 7 Upper Cretaceous ammonites (188677); 4 mineral specimens: natrolite, andradite, and allanite from near Wykertown, N. J., and basaluminite from Marshall County, Tenn. (188805) ; 20 ramsdellite specimens from Lake Valley, N. Mex., collected by S. C. Creasey, and 4 eucryptite specimens from the Harding mine, N. Mex., collected by J. R. Adams (188864) ; 7 terebratuloid brachiopods from the Cenozoic of Japan (188884) ; 93 type slides from the Eocene Lodo formation of California (188885) ; 1,350 Upper Paleozoic invertebrate fossils from Brooks Range, Alaska, collected by several field parties in the Geological Survey during the 1949 and 1950 field seasons (188887) ; 2 stone artifacts from indurated gravel deposits of late Pleistocene age on the Rio Guasari, near Carrasquerro, state of Zulia, Venezuela, collected by Dr. Lloyd W. Stephenson, December 18, 1929 (189394) ; 9 specimens of uranophane, autunite, metatorbernite, and uraninite from Marysvale, Utah (189447) ; 6 Ordovician brachiopods from east ‘Tennessee (189883) ; 39 specimens of pegmatite minerals from the Harding mine, near Taos, N. Mex. (189918) ; 175 fresh-water Upper Cretaceous mollusks from Wyoming (190095) ; 7 figured type specimens and 5 unfigured specimens of ammonites described by W. A. Cobban (190230); 2 Tertiary echinoids from Georgia (190635) ; 4 specimens and 5 thin sections of a foraminifer from Cuba and Florida (190636) ; 9 specimens representing 2 species of the foraminifer Lockhartia from deep wells in Florida (190745); 6 free specimens and 18 thin sections of Foraminifera types from Coastal Petroleum No. 1 Wright well core (190746) ; 10 manganese ores from Minas Gerais, Brazil (190968) ; (through P. D. Akin) skull, lower jaw, and skeletal parts of an In-

dian, and bison remains from Devils Lake area, N. Dak. (187789) ; (through Josiah Bridge) 36 fresh-water shells from Alaska (187716) ; (through Dr. Preston E. Cloud, Jr.) 12 specimens of late Pleistocene mammals collected by C. B. Hunt from loess deposits in the vicinity of Denver, and 30 specimens of fossil fish from the Green River Eocene of Colorado (187413); 2 ichthyosaurian specimens tentatively referred to the genus Cymdospondylus, collected by Dr. Cloud on July 30, 1950, in the middle ‘Triassic Favret formation, Sonoma Range Quadrangle, Nev. (187931) ; 22 trackways of vertebrate and invertebrate origin collected by Henry Faul from the Jurassic Navajo sandstone in a quarry approximately 12.4 miles northeast of Rio Blanco store, Rio Blanco County, Colo. (188048) ; 6 Upper Devonian fishes from Lewis and Jackson Counties, Tenn., collected by Louis C. Conant, W. H. Haas, and VY. E. Swanson (188428) ; the weathered fragments of the articulated skeleton of a HadroSaurian dinosaur, the remainder of which is still buried in upper Cretaceous sediments at the site of discovery in Sweetgrass County, Mont., collected by Dr. J. B. Reeside, Jr. and Messrs. Cobban and Christner on August 26, 1950 (188768) ; 18 vertebrate fossils, including fishes from the Columbites zones and ichthyosaurian bones from the Arctoceros zone, Triassic Thaynes formation, near Paris, Bear Lake County, Idaho, collected by Dr. Bernard Kummel, summer of 1949 (189039) ; 1 fossil mammal from Guanajuato, Mexico, collected by J. D. Edwards (189292) ; 42 land mollusks from Mona Island, Puerto Rico, collected by C. A. Kaye (189344) ; 8 fossil fish and reptile specimens from various Lower and Middle ‘Triassic horizons of the Thaynes formation in Idaho and Montana, collected by Dr. Bernard Kummel in summer of 1950 (189720); mandibles of a hyracodont rhinoceros from the Oligocene Yoder formation of Wyoming and 2 oreodonts from the Hocene Sage Creek formation of Montana, collected by Dr. Jean Hough and other members of the Survey during August 1950 (190481); (through Jack Dorr) 11 marine shells from Puri, Orissa, India (187768) ; 
<<<97>>>
INTERIOR, U. 8. DEPARTMENT OF THE— Continued

(through Drs. David M. Hopkins and Preston H. Cloud, Jr.) 16 marine invertebrates, approximately 170 marine and fresh-water mollusks, and approximately 50 echinoderms from Alaska (189572) ; (through Dr. Jean Hough) 1 lot of miscellaneous bones of Audubon’s shearwater from Mona Island (190434) ; (through Dr. James F. Seitz) 38 oligochaete worms from Geikie Glacier, Alaska (189042) ; (through Dr. James 8. Williams) lower jaw fragment of extinct cat, Dinictis sp., and portion of. lower jaw of deerlike animal, Leptomeryz sp., from Bowman County, N. Dak., collected by W. EH. Benson, R. W. Brown, and N. M. Denson, in June and July 1950 (187531) ; (through George F. Worts, Jr.) 11 marine mollusks from Terceira Island, Azores (187426).

National Park Service: 34 plants from Walnut Canyon National Monument, Ariz. (187725) ; 5 plants from Glacier National Park, Mont. (187930); -7 phanerogams from Virginia (188013) ; 42 plants from Natchez Trace Parkway, Tupelo, Miss. (188624); 183 plants from Kentucky (189688) ; (through Daniel B. Beard) 1 paratype of snake from 5 miles east of Paradise Key, Dade County, Fla. (187630) ; (through C. K. Dale) a bat collected by James Baird at Prince William Forest Park, Triangle, Va., July 25, 1950 (191173); (through Joseph C. Moore) 9 whale bones collected in Monroe and Lee Counties, Fla., (189779).

Iowa Strate CoLiece, Ames, Iowa: 46 plants (190273, exchange).

IrvING, Dr. LAURENCE. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. S. Public Health Service, Anchorage, Alaska.)

Isety, Dr. Duanz, Ames, Iowa: 100 plants from United States (189019).

IsHpusuHTu Coat Mines, Kabul, Afghanistan: (Through Myles A. Walsh and Louis G. Dreyfus) 20 fossil plants from the Ishpushtu Coal Mines, Afghanistan (185497).

Isom, JoHN R., South Hill, Va.: 1 female trap-door spider with part of burrow (190651).

ISRAEL, STATE or, Philatelic Services, New York, N. Y.: 23 unused stamps of the State of Israel (188229).

Ives Cotor Processes, Inc., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through C. Harrison Conroy) 5 Ives color prints: “Vegetable Hodgepodge,” “Christmas Carolers,” “Michael Piteairn,’ “Model Wearing

Plaid Shirt and Holding One,” and “Lenox Breakfast Set” (187952).

Izzarp, R. J. (See under British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)

JACHOWSKI, Lt. Lro, Kensington, Md.: 103 fishes, 18 spiders, 66 marine invertebrates, mollusks, and 3 reptiles from the Samoan Islands (187410) ; 50 lizards from Tutuila, American Samoa collected mostly by Lt. Jachowski in 1949 (189994).

JACOBS, GEORGE. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, Hydrographic Office.)

Jacops, MerRLE. (See under University of Indiana.)

JACOBSON, Morris K., Rockaway Beach, N. Y.: 6 land shells from Mexico (187883) .

JACQUES SELIGMANN & Co., Inec., New York, N. Y.: 26 prints in various media by The Printmakers for the special exhibition during January 1951 (185828, loan).

JAECKEL, Dr. 8. (See under Zoologisches Museum.)

games, Dr. Maurice T., Puilman, Wash.: 1 paratype of fly from New Caledonia (187327); 10 flies from Washington (189887).

JARDIM BoTANICO DO RIO DE JANEIRO, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 147 plants from Brazil (190716, exchange).

JEFFERS, W. F., Hyattsville, Md.: 126 tools used in harness making by W. J. Moore (188296).

JEFFRIES, FRANK L., Washington, D. C.: 26 land and fresh-water mollusks from Prince William County, Ya. (187809).

JELETZIGY, |) Dr.) J AY Canadian Government, Survey of Canada.)

JELINEK, Hans, New York, N. Y.: 25 woodcuts in various media by Mr. Jelinek for special exhibition held April 1951 (190797, loan).

JELINEK, Mrs. Hazen, St. Louis, Mo.: A “mad stone” (191192).

JELLISON, W. L. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. S. Public Health Service, Hamilton, Mont.)

JENKINS, Dr. DALE W., Army Chemical Center, Md.: 19 horseflies and ap-

(See under Geological

proximately 25 blackflies from northern Canada (188281).

Jizes P., Cartos, Ovalle, Chile: 11 Bromeliaceae collected in Chile

(189693).

JIMENEZ, Dr. Jost ve JS., Santiago, Dominican Republic: 352 plants collected in the Dominican Republic (187403, 188180, 189927); 2 land snails from Santiago de los Caballeros (190012). 
<<<98>>>
JouNns HopKINS UNIVERSITY, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Dr. Thomas Amsden) 54 Lower Devonian fishes from the Columbus limestone at Lakeside, Ottawa County, Ohio (189220).

JOHNSON, J. Peter, Hanover, N. H.: (Through David C. Nutt) 7 marine invertebrates and 35 insects (189262).

JOHNSTON, Dr. W. D., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 29 stylized unbaked earthen dolls made by the Carajai Indians of the Rio Araguaia area of eastern Brazil, and obtained by donor in 1942 (188869).

JOHNSTONE, Harry INGE, Mobile, Ala. : 2 marine mollusks from Alabama (187844).

JOHNSTONE, Mrs. Harry Incr, Mobile, Ala.: 7 marine mollusks from Alabama (190598).

JONES, Dupiry P., Woreester, Mass.: Shoulder sleeve insignia of the type worn by members of the United States military organization known as Mervil’s Marauders during the period of World War Ii (188648).

Jongs, Mrs. FLoyp, New York, N. Y.: 1 barbed bone dart-point from Shemya

Island, Aleutian Islands, Alaska (190084).

JONES, Henry J. (See under Col. B. C. Goss. )

JONES, JosSeEPH W., Washington, D. C.: 28 marine shells from Uspiritu Santo, New Hebrides (190561).

JONES, WARREN R., Sierra Madre, Calif. : 5 mineral specimens: melanterite from Cerro de Pasco, Chile: codazzite and parisite from Muzo, Colombia; and stewartite and lithiophilite from Pala, Calif. (190555).

JORDAN, FRANKLIN I., New Highlands, Mass.: 50 pictorial prints for exhibition during January 1951 (189333, loan) ; 8 photographie prints: ‘The Sport of. Kings,’ “Cockers,” “The Grandest. Tiger,’ ‘Another Dog,” “Hill Town,” “The Toilers,’ ‘“Sunshine,” and “Wo Peen” (190485).

JORDAN, Mrs. JAMES L., Colonial Beach, Va.: 1 crayfish (190008).

JUNGE, CARLos, Concepcién, Chile: 20 plants collected in Chile (190477). Kaun, Max, Chicago, Ill.: 21 eolor lithographs by Mr. Kahn for special

exhibition (189797, loan).

KANAKOFF, GEORGE P. (See under Los Angeles County Museum. )

Kano, Dr. Roxuro, Tokyo, Japan: 99 flies from Japan (191077, exchange) ; (through Capt. Herbert C. Barnett) 25 calliphorid flies from Japan (187805, exchange).

Kans.: 17 grasses from Kansas (187808, 187311, 189388); 724 plants collected in Kansas by W. H. Horr and others (190090, 190225,

Lawrence,

KANSAS, UNIVERSITY ofr —Continued exchange); 1 plant collected in Kansas (190226); (through Dr. Ronald L. McGregor) 7 ferns (188832, exchange); (through Dr. H. B. Hungerford) 8 water-boatmen from United States (188781) ; (through Dr. R. H. Beamer) 3 bugs from Africa from Kirkaldy type collection (189075, deposit).

Museum of Natural History: (Through Dr. Robert W. Wilson) humerus and coracoid of fossil bird Fallus prenticei Wetmore, from the Upper Pliocene, Rexroad formation, Meade County, Kans., collected by Dr. C. W. Hibbard and party in 1937 (140781); (through Dr. E. Raymond Hall) 1 jack-rabbit representing a new subspecies from the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico (189128).

Kansas Srate Corrtecr, Manhattan, Kans.: 1 grass from Kansas (189687).

Kapur, Dr. A. P. (See under Zoological Survey of India.)

Kato, TORANOSUKE. Mikimoto & Co., Ltd.)

KAVANAUGH, Col. J. B., Fort Myers Beach, Fla.: 7 shrimp and 1 lobster (187863); 10 fishes from 15 miles north of Fort Jefferson, Fla., collected July 15, 1950 by shrimp trawling boats (187965).

ISEENER, Mrs. GLADYS. Scientific Monthly.)

KeELLy, Dr. W. A., Hast Lansing, Mich.: 15 specimens of Upper Paleozoic invertebrate fossils from western AlIberta, including type specimens of a new genus and species (187675); 7 Carboniferous nautiloid cephalopods from Michigan (188771) ; a Mesozoic plant from Argentina (190391, exchange).

Kemper, Father WAttTsr, Ithaca, N. Y.: 11 ants, including one cotype, from America (190109).

Kenxk, Dr. Roman, Washington, D. C.: 4 holotypes on 16 slides of freshwater flatworms (189229).

Kenya Cotony, Game Department, Nairobi, Kenya Colony: (Through R. Teague) 275 marine mollusks from Malindi, Kenya Colony (188306).

Krsr, Dr. Paun H., New York, N. Y.: Collection of 45 studied clay mineral samples (189949).

Kerricu, G. J. (See under British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)

KESSEL, Dr. Epwarp L., San Francisco, Calif.: 8 paratypes of flies from California (187826).

KHALAF, Kamet, Norman, Okla.: 92 biting midges from Oklahoma (189830, 190882).

(See under K.

(See under the 
<<<99>>>
Kipper, Dr. A. V., Cambridge, Mass.: 2| Krauss, N. L. H., Honolulu, T. H.: 1,500

pebbles of jadeite from an archeologieal cache at Quirigua, Guatemala, and several jade fragments (189117).

KIELEY, JOHN, Washington, D. C.: Pressed-glass compote, pattern imitating deep cutting of 1900 period, marked “NUCUT” (187301).

KILHAM, Dr. LAWRENCE, Bethesda, Md. : 1 yellow-bellied sapsucker (190630).

Kini, E. P., Washington, D. C.: 4 prints of Lobeliaceae (187672); 72 plants from Texas (188762); 21 amphipods, 1 isopod, and 2 sponges (190117). (See also under Washington Biologists’ Field Club.)

Kissiverr, M. Z., Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 datolite specimen from Westfield, Mass. (190276); 3 specimens of tellurite with native tellurium from Kawadsu Mine, Shidsuoko Prefecture, Japan (190977, exchange).

KITTERMAN, DorotHy. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Army.)

KieckKer, Dr. J. B. (See under Veneezuelan Atlantic Refining Co.)

KNIGHT, Howarp. (See under Weber College. )

Knicut, Dr. J. Brookes, Washington, D. C.: Approximately 437 marine invertebrates, 58 fishes, 37 echinoderms, 1,000 mollusks, 9 corals, 4 brachiopods, foraminifers, and 6 samples from the Gulf of Mexico (190466).

KoEHNLE, Mrs. MartHa Faber, Turlock, Calif.: Finely embroidered, crossstitch sampler of 1830 (187901).

KorrckKe, Dr. H. W., Lima, Peru: 4 decapod crustaceans and 7 copepods (189575).

Konpo, YosH1o. (See under Bernice P. Bishop Museum.)

KOoNTKANEN, Dr. Paavo, Lieksa, Finland: 24 leafhoppers from Finland 187707).

Kopr, Max J., Buffalo, N. Y.: 1 cystid from the Ordovician rocks of Ontario, Canada (189717, exchange).

Kopp, Mr. and Mrs. Rocer S., Savannah, Ga.: Wedding clothes worn by donors when married in Duluth, Minn., in 1910; wedding and trousseau lingerie of Mrs. Kopp; and formal day dress suit, period of 1910, owned by Mr. Kopp (191149).

Koro, ApELE, Beloit, Wis.: 2 marine mollusks from off Key West, Fla. (188308).

KoveELEskKI, A. J., Scranton, Pa.: Hight %4,’’ seale models of early American automobiles made by Scranton Hobby Center (188706).

Kran, EMMA H., Washington, D. C.: 10 marine mollusks from Ocean City, Md. (188054) ; 3 marine shells from Rehoboth Beach, Del. (190986).

miscellaneous insects from Australia (187730) ; 250 termites from Australia (187781).

KRIEGER, HERBERT W., Washington, D. C.: 1 silver teaspoon, marked “C. A. Burnette,” Alexandria, Va., and Georgetown, D. C., 1793-1822 (187690).

KROMBEIN, Kar V., Arlington, Va.: 236 bees, wasps, and bugs from Kill Devil Hills, N. C. (187970).

KRUSEMAN, Dr. G., Jr., Amsterdam, Netherlands: 8 bumblebees from Europe (190885, exchange).

KrycGer, J. P., Flintinge, Denmark: Approximately 1,070 beetle larvae from Denmark (187973, 188376).

KuMM, MARGUERITE, Falls Church, Va.: 39 prints in various media by Miss Kumm for special exhibition during December 1950 (189050, loan); 1 aquatint, “Harvest, 1948,” by donor (1893835).

Kuropa, Dr. TokuseEI, Kyoto, Japan: 5 mollusks from Japan (189683). (See also under Kyoto University, Zoological Institute.)

KurTPINAR, Dr. Hasis, Ankara, Turkey: 3 fresh-water snails from Adano, Turkey (187832); 66 land and fresh-water mollusks from Turkey (188651) ; approximately 50 marine mollusks from Turkey (189345).

Kutter, Dr. H., Bern, Switzerland : 305 ants, including 4 cotypes, from all over the world (190111, 191118, exchange).

Kyoto UNIVERSITY, Zoological Institute, Kyoto, Japan: (Through Tadashige Habe and Dr. Tokubei Kuroda) 105 marine and land shells, including paratypes from Japan, mostly species recently described by Japanese workers (187419, exchange).

KyusHvu UNIVERSITY, Hntomological Laboratory, Fukuoka, Japan: (Through Dr. Keizo Yasumatsu) 1 ant from Japan (187892).

LABORATORIO DE HipRoBIOLoGiA, Mexico, D. F.: (Through D. Mauro Cardenas Figueroa) 4 fishes from Socorro Island (187439, exchange).

LABORATORIUM PENJELIDIKAN LAUT, Java, Indonesia: (Through Dr. J. D. F.. Hardenberg and W. H. Schuster)

197 fishes from Djakarta, Java (189162). LaCassr, Lt. Col. Watter J. (See

under Department of Defense, Department of the Army.)

Lacy, W.C. (See under Cerro de Pasco Copper Corporation. )

Lapp, Dr. Harry S., Washington, D. C.: 40 marine and land shells, including paratypes from New Zealand, originally received from Dr. A. W. B. 
<<<100>>>
Powell (188346) ; 25 lots of Tertiary fossils from New Zealand (188421) ; 40 lots of Tertiary Miocene (Yorktown formation) fossils from Virginia (188441) ; approximately 300 assorted invertebrate fossils from many localities (188637).

LAKEMONT GARDENS, Winter Park, Fla.: 1 plant cultivated in Florida (188495).

LAMM, Donatp. (See under Museu Dr. Alvaro de Castro.)

Lanp, Admiral Emory S., Washington, D. C.: Mounted head of caribou from near Jasper National Park, British Columbia (1910838).

LANE, Dr. JoHN, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 97 flies, 4 of which are cotypes, from Brazil (188782); 5 biting midges from Brazil and 30 from Colorado

(189733). (See also under Edward I. Coher.) Lanepon, NANNIE D., Washington,

D. C.: 4 examples of carving collected by donor in Japan: Hotei, a carving in wood; 2 miniature carvings in ivory, a farmer feeding a chicken, and fishermen hauling in their loaded net; and a small lidded vessel in erystal quartz (191095).

LaneuscH, E. W., Gladstone, Queensland, Australia: 150 marine mollusks from Tryon Island, Capricorn Group, Queensland (189457, exchange).

LATHAM, Roy, Orient, N. Y.: 1 crab and 4 sea stars (189462, 190518).

Lavupon, Dr. L. R., Madison, Wis.: 14 Pennsylvanian and Mississippian crinoids from Oklahoma, all types or

figured specimens (189907, exchange). LAwtor, Commander W. K. (See un-

der Department of Defense, Department of the Navy.)

Layton, Forrest, Resolute Bay, Alaska: 1 musk-ox skull from Cornwallis Island, N. W. T. (187831).

Lr CALvez, Dr. Y., Rennes, France: 12 Foraminifera representing 9 species from the Tertiary of the Paris Basin, France (190102, exchange).

LEDON, Oscar ALCALDE, Cienfuegos, Las Villas, Cuba: Approximately 1,000 land shells from Cuba (187421) ; approximately 827 land mollusks (188511, 189695).

Ler, Dr. D. J. (See under University of Sydney.)

Lest, Satty, Philadelphia, Pa.: 21 marine mollusks from South Africa (188841, 189736) ; 27 marine shells from South Africa and the Indian Ocean (190594, exchange) ; 20 freshwater mollusks from Philadelphia, Pa. (190798). (See also under Tan Beng Teck.)

LEECHMAN, Doucias. (See under Rev. Fr. Thomas-Louis Doré.)

Lerson, H. S. (See under London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. )

LEoNARD, HMeERyY C., Washington, D. C.: 49 plants collected in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Maryland (190272).

Lronagp, Dr. F. Morton, Washington, D. C.: 1 ground stone axhead from the Department of Junin, Peru, collected in 1918 on the Perené River by the donor (189497).

LEONARD, JUSTIN W. (See under Michigan Department of Conservation. )

Lester, Dr. J. G., Emory University, Ga.: 5 hydroxyl-apatite specimens from Cherokee County, Ga. (189948).

LEvI-CASTILLO, Dr. RoBERTO, Guayaquil, Ecuador : 20 houseflies and 63 mosquitoes from Eeuador (188282, 190106) ; 44 mosquitoes and flies from Ecuador (191155).

Levinson, Stuart A., St. Louis, Mo.: 10 slides of ostracodes (189356).

Lewis, Lt. Col. BERKELEY R., Arlington, Va.: Archeological materials and a human skull from Venezuela, collected by donor in 1948-50 (190289).

Lewton, Dr. FReperick L., Winter Park, Fla.: 16 beetles from Florida (187519) ; 3 wood specimens grown

on the premises of the donor (189821). LicarI, Roy N., Alexandria, Va.:

Korean War “Patriotic” cacheted envelope (189826).

LicutTic, Ira W., Cleveland, Ohio: 11 stamps and 7 envelopes and postcards issued in the Philippine Islands dur-

ing the Japanese occupation (187136). LIEBERMANN, Dr. José. (See under

Instituto de Sanidad Vegetal.)

LINDE AIR ProDucts Co., New York, N. Y.: (Through A. K. Seeman) 6 boules of synthetic sapphire, 2 pieces of synthetic sapphire rod, and 2 boules of synthetic spinel (190552).

LINNAVUORI, Dr. Rauno, Abo, Finland: 141 Huropean leafhoppers, representing 52 named species (190979, exchange).

LITTLEFORD, Ropert A., and J. FRANCES ALLEN, College, Park, Md.: Approximately 190 mollusks from Galesyille and Crisfield, Md. (188685).

LirrtLtEwoop, W. H. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, Hydrographic Office.)

Locker, Betry, Portland, Oreg.: (Through Dr. Robert Rausch) 14 small mammals from Oregon (189735).

LocKLIN, CHARLES R., Detroit, Mich.: 4 marine mollusks from Florida 
<<<101>>>
(190408) ; 11 marine, land, and freshwater shells from Florida and the Gulf of Mexico (191087).

Longe, Mrs. JoHN B., Washington, D. C.: Altar piece of 19th century Spanish lace (191098).

LorsiicH, Dr, ALFRED R., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 11 Foraminifera from the Pliocene of Java and Japan (190557). (See also under Dr. P. Bronnimann.)

LONDON SCHOOL OF HYGIENE AND TROPICAL MerpDICcCINE, London, England: (Through Dr. H. 8. Leeson) 35 mosquitoes from Brazil (1890381, exchange); 19 horseflies from Africa and 4 biting midges from the Orient (189341, exchange).

LoosrR, GUALTERIO, Santiago, Chile: 4 plants collected in Chile (189689). Los ANGELES County MusEeum, Los Angeles, Calif.: (Through George P. Kanakoff) 2 paratypes of a land snail from San Clemente Island, Calif.

(189882).

Los ANGELES STATE AND CouNtTy ArBORETUM, Arcadia, Calif.: 1 specimen (2 seeds) of a palm from Mexico (187755) ; 1 grass from California (188490) ; 7 plants collected in Colombia by R. Romero (188877).

Louistana SrTateE UNIversity, Baton Rouge, La.: 55 plants from Mexico (189172).

LOVERIDGE, ARTHUR. (See under Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology.)

LowELL, Mrs. WILLIAM E., Chevy Chase, Md.: 2 grasshoppers collected on highway between Douglas, Ariz., and Lordsburg, N. Mex. (188345).

LOWER, GEORGE G., Westtown, Pa.: 25 galatheids (190565).

LUCKLIN, CHARLES R., Pontiac, Mich.: Cast brass door knocker, octagonal shank, found in Kentucky about 30 miles south of Lexington, ca. 1840 (1873800).

Lutz, JOHN, Philadelphia, Pa.: Allotype of a stink bug from Africa (189730, exchange) ; 2 paratypes of waterbugs from Paraguay (190280, exchange) ; 2 paratypes of South American bugs (190758, exchange).

LymMAN, Col. E. L., Washington, D. C.: 14 insects, 4 lizards, and 1 snake (190782).

LYMAN, FRANK, Lantana, Fla.: 100 marine mollusks and 8 marine invertebrates from Florida (183571); 5 marine shells from Florida (186670) ; 10 scallops from Marco Island, Fla. (190595).

MacCorD, Maj. Howarp A., Dayton, Ky.: Approximately 100 marine shells and 2 fossil mollusks from Honshu, Japan, taken from archeological sites

(187483) ; bones of mammals from shell heaps in Honshu, Japan (188743) ; archeological material from Chiba, Miyagi, and Aomori Prefectures, Honshu, Japan, and Tientsin, Chihli, China, collected by donor (189488).

MacDoucatL, T., New York, N. Y.: 3 plants collected in Mexico (188537, 190794).

Macepo, Dr. Amaro, Ituiutaba, Minas Gerais, Brazil: 24 Brazilian plants (187830).

MacGinitie, Prof. G. H., Corona del Mar, Calif.: 31 lots and approximately 75 specimens of Recent brachiopods from Point Barrow, Alaska (190479).

MacGItinitTiz, Prof. and Mrs. G. H. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, Office of Nawal Research.)

Macxkerras, Dr. I. M. (See under Queensland Institute of Medical Research. )

Maonas, JAMEes A. (See under Oregon Institute of Marine Biology.)

Macy, Prof. RatpH W. (See under Department of Defense, Depariment of the Navy, Office of Naval Research.)

MacGapi Sopa Co., Ltd., Magadi, Kenya, Hast Africa: A villiaumite specimen from Lake Magadi, Magadi, Kenya (190893).

Macer, Col. M. M., Alexandria, Va.: Evening dress coat of colonel, U. S. Army, 1912-22, and a pair of fulldress shoulder knots for mess jacket (189959).

Matns, Dr. B. B. (See under University of Michigan.)

Mann, Dr. Wittiam M. (See under Smithsonian Institution, National Zoological Park.)

Manson, Cart P., Washington, D. C.: Skeletal remains from historic Indian site near Romney, W. Va. (191099).

MansvuetTi, Romeo, Solomons, Md.: 138 small mammals from western Maryland (189090).

Marsrize, Dr. JoHn P., Washington, D. C.: 4 specimens of described allanite from Greenwich, Mass. (189025).

MarcH-Prennity, Mrs. Janet F., Barbados, British West Indies: Approximately 300 marine shells from Maxwells Coast, Barbados (188053).

Marin M., Dr. Fretrpr, Cuzeo, Peru: 21 plants collected in Peru (189886).

MarsHaALtt, Hrnest B., Laurel, Md.: Skulls of 2 opossums from Maryland (187895) ; 4 small mammals and il skulls of fur-bearing mammals from near Laurel (190282, 191084); 1 albino junco from Maryland (190379).

Marsuatt, J., Dar-es-Salaam, Tanganyika, British East Africa: Ap
<<<102>>>
proximately 200 land and fresh-water mollusks from British Hast Africa (187715).

MarsuHaL., Dr. Jor T., Jr. (See under National Research Council, Pacific Science Board.)

Martin, Jessiz E., Washington, D, C.: 1 bunch of flowers made of human hair, ca. 1864, and a bracelet woven of human hair, ca. 1864, all made by Mrs. Hlizabeth Fairbanks Martin, mother of the donor (188705).

Martin S., Dr. F. (See under Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle.)

Martinez, Patacios, AMADO. (See under Instituto de Salubridad y HEnfermedades Tropicales. )

Marrinrz, Prof. Maximino, Mexico, D. F.: 1 plant from Mexico (187447).

MARYLAND, CONSERVATION CoMMISSION or, Annapolis, Md.: (Through Paul S. Conger) 1 lot of rotifers (189350).

MARYLAND, UNIVERSITY oF, College Park, Md.: (Through Prof, Hlizabeth H. Haviland) 18 land mollusks from greenhouse in San Francisco, Calif. (190246).

Mason, Dr. Brian H., Bloomington, Ind.: 3 bystromite specimens from EH] Antimonio, Sonora, Mexico (189116).

Mason, Rutu. (See under New Zealand Department of Scientific and Industrial Research.)

Matrox, Prof. N. T., Mayagiiez, P. R.: 22 types of an anostracan (187935). (See also under University of Puerto Rico.)

Marup4, Hxriz1, Mexico, D. F.: 22 plants collected in Mexico (188493, 190474) ; 124 grasses from Mexico (189715) ; 82 Mexican ferns (190515).

May, Amy WETMORE (deceased): (Through National Savings and Trust Co.) A silver service consisting of coffeepot, teapot, sugar bowl, creamer, and tea strainer and 2 silver presentation pitchers (190331, bequest).

McCorMickK-GoopHART, LEANDER, Alexandria, Va.: 118 medals in copper, brass, bronze, and other base metals, struck in England during the 18th century to commemorate the naval victories of Admiral Hdward Vernon, 1739-1741 (189121).

McCutitooH, Dr. Irenz, Los Angeles, Calif.: 5 paratypes of Foraminifera from the Recent of the Pacific Ocean (190641).

McDona.Lp, Rey. Bruce, Baltimore, Md. : 1 Graphoscope motion picture projector (188444).

McDonnetL, Austin M., Warrenton, Va.: Naval uniform coat and accessories owned by Medical Director Gustavus R. B. Horner, U. 8S. N., and a collection of 10 miscellaneous ethnological specimens, a brass lan-

tern, 5 ancient pottery lamps and 4 Chinese mother-of-pearl counters (189221).

McHivare, R. R., Port Washington, N. Y.: 34 moths from United States (187682).

McI'rrran, Rogert L., Fort Wayne, Ind.: 1 Expo camera and 1 actinometer (188989). (See also under American Society of Photographic Art.)

MocGiucnHrist, Mrs. Mitiar, Washington, D. C.: Blue lampas sacque or overdress, period of the 18th century (187762).

McGinty, Pau L. L. McGinty.)

McGinty, THomas L., Boynton Beach, Fla.: 184 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 20 mollusks, 24 fish and echinoderm specimens collected in Florida waters (188910).

McGinty, THomMAS L., Pau L. McGinty, and A. R. THompson, Boynton Beach, Fla.: 6 marine mollusks and 6 coral specimens from off Palm Beach, Fla., together with approximately 979 marine invertebrates, echinoderms, 3 plants, and _ “fishes (183504).

McGreeor, Dr. RoNALp L. University of Kansas.)

MoGuigeE, D. B., Middletown, N. J.: An early handmade voltmeter (190519).

McHenry, G. RutH, Washington, D. C.: 1 Staffordshire plate by J. and W. Ridgway; 1 Castleford stoneware Sugar bowl; 1 porcelain occupational shaving mug; 9 pressed sandwichglass cup plates; 1 appliqued and quilted cotton coverlet; 9 appliqued cotton squares for coverlet; and 1 appliqued unfinished coverlet (188128).

McL&an, JAMEis D., Jr., Alexandria, Va.: 14 type specimens of Paleocene Foraminifera from the Atlantic Coastal Plain (188886).

McRag, EH. D., Jr., Gainesville, Fla.: 2 crabs from Lake Maggorie, Pinellas County, Fla. (186084).

McVaucH, Dr. RoGeErs. University of Michigan.)

MEANLEY, Brooke, Stuttgart, Ark.: 1 blue jay from Maryland (188042). (See also under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

MEEHAN, RutTH L., Washington, D. C.: White silk wedding dress and kid slippers, period 1852; barege dress, period 1840-1850; organdy matron’s cap; and white wool Spanish shawl (187770).

MrrHeaAN, O. Ltoyp, Washington, D. ©. Approximately 312 copepods (187880).

(See under Thomas

(See under

(See under 
<<<103>>>
Metcuer, Mrs. Kenpatt B., Douglas, Ariz.: A crewel-work linen quilt made about 1792, and a hand-woven linen towel (190856).

MeEtear, Sr. Jose Ma., Madrid, Spain: 1 specimen of quadarramite from Monte de Lagasea, San Rafael (Segovia), Spain (187083, exchange).

Menzisrs, Rosert J., Los Angeles, Calif. : Approximately 119 isopods, including type specimens (189851).

MERTIE, JOHN B., Sligo Park Hills, Md.: 1 specimen of tourmaline granite from Stone Mountain, Ga. (188047).

METROPOLITAN CAMERA CLUB COUNCIL, Inc., New York, N. Y.: (Through Mildred B. Scales) 99 photographie prints of 1950 travel show (188680, loan).

Miami, UNIversity or, Marine Laboratory, Coral Gables, Fla.: (Through Dr. F. G. Walton Smith) 1 “sand case” (187595) ; (through Dr. Hilary Moore) approximately 2,000 deepwater marine mollusks from off Florida (189129).

MIcHIGAN, UNiversity or, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 36 grasses and 2 lichens collected in Alaska by Louis H. Jordal (188327, 188947) ; 1 fern from Canada (188800) ; 208 lichens from Washington, collected by H. A. Imshaug (189044, exchange) ; 69 plants from Mexico and Texas, collected by Dr. Rogers McVaugh (189384) ; 13 plants from Mexico and Texas (190086) ; 3 specimens, representing pieces of the holotypes of 2 species of the coral Billingsastraea, from the Devonian of Michigan (190101, exchange) ; (through Dr. Henry van der Schalie) 24 fresh-water mussels from Kansas and 200 from Michigan (187422, 187766, exchange); (through Dr. Rogers McVaugh) 20 Mexican plants collected by Dr. MeVaugh (188348) ; (through Dr. T. H. Hubbell) 29 beetles from United States (190487) ; (through Dr. E. B. Mains) 151 United States mosses (191058, exchange).

MIcHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION, Institute for Fisheries Research, Ann Arbor, Mich.: (Through Justin W. Leonard) 1 crab (190019).

MIpDDLEKAUFF, W. W. (See under University of California. )

MikrimMorTo & Co., Ltd., K., Tokyo, Japan: (Through Toranosuke Kato) A collection of cultured pearls comprising 395 individual specimens, 1 strand of 111 pearls and 1 strand of 105 specimens (185791).

MiLgourne, Mrs. CuHartes E. (See under Charles E. Milbourne, Jr.)

MILBOURNE, CHARLES EK., Jr., and STANLEY A. MiLtsourNer, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Mrs. Charles E. Milbourne)

1 Cineograph motion picture projector, presented in memory of Charles E. Milbourne (190103).

MILpourRNE, Stantey A. (See under Charles E. Milbourne, Jr.)

Mitirr, Jonn H. (See under Weston Electrical Instrument Corporation.) Mititer, Mrs. Water, Pulaski, N. Y.: Pair of white silk stockings worn by Ellen Munroe in 1839 and pair of white silk socks of elaborate design worn by her husband, Thomas Munroe, probably at his wedding in 1839

(190236) .

Miter, Lt. Comdr. Water B., Falls Church, Va.: 45 land and marine mollusks from Efate, New Hebrides and Guadalcanal, Solomon Islands (189228) ; 20 land shells from Florida (190599).

Miuuiron, Dr. H. E., Newark, Del.: 98 blackflies from Delaware (191081). Mitts, PHorse, Cuvu, Nadroga, Fiji: Approximately 900 marine shells

from Viti Levu, Fiji (191197).

Miner, JuLIusS D., Monterey, Mass.: 14 land mollusks from Monterey, Mass. (188099) ; 1 crane fly from Massachusetts (189278).

MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA y CRiA, Caracas, Venezuela: 20 ants from Venezuela (187264) ; 132 plants collected in Venezuela by F. Cardona (188670).

MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA Y GANADERI{A, Bogota, Colombia: 239 plants from Colombia (188875, gift-exchange).

MINNESOTA, UNIVERSITY oF, Minneapolis, Minn. : 59 grasses from Alaska, collected by L. A. Spetzman (187334, 188692) ; 188 bryophytes from the United States, collected by Dr. R. M. Schuster (188934, exchange) ; 34 fresh-water mollusks from near Cloverdale, Pine County, Minn. (189084) ; 71 plants from United States (190832, exchange); (through Dr. W. C. Bell) 1 type specimen of a Miocene plant from Montana (190970, exchange).

Museum of Natural History, Minneapolis, Minn.: 3 plants from Mexico (188330); (through Byron HE. Harrell) 14 ferns from Mexico collected by Mr. Harrell (187858).

Miser, Dr. Huan D. (See under William Fisher.)

Missourt Boranicat GARDEN, St. Louis, Mo.: 83 grasses from United States (186912) ; 4 plants collected in Panama by Paul H. Allen (187312) ; 10 plants from Panama (187408): 32 plants collected in Costa Rica by Holm and Iltis (188339) ; 14 plants from Costa Riea (189348). 
<<<104>>>
Mosere, Mrs. Auice G., North Quincy, Mass.: 7% marine mollusks from Mozambique, Africa (189737).

Monop, Dr. TH. (See under Institut Franeais d’ Afrique Noire.)

Monrés, IF. TucumMAN, Argentina; 16 beetles from South America (188504, gift-exchange). (See also under Fundaci6én Miguel Lillo.)

Moors, Dr. GEorce A. (See under Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College. )

Moors, Dr. H. Emmry, Jr. Bailey Hortorium.)

Moorz, Dr. HiItary. versity of Miami, atory.)

Moorz, JosepH C. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service.)

Moors, Mrs. W. J., Berwyn, Md.: 289 harness fittings from the shop of W. J. Moore (deceased) (188295).

Moorr, Dr. Water G., New Orleans, La.: 42 anostracan branchiopods from St. Tammany Parish, La. (190010) ; 12 Anostraca (190501).

Morean, FrenNcH, Washington, D. C.: 1 specimen of apophyllite from Goose Creek, Leesburg, Va. (188883, exchange).

Morris, Dr. Ropert W., St. Louis Mo.: Holotype and 2 paratypes of an ostracod, genus and species new to the collections, from the Waldron Shale of Indiana (190265).

MUENSCHER, Dr. W. C. (See under Cornell University. )

MUESEBECK, C.F. W. (See under U. S. Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine.)

Musssic, SrIrcFRIED, Columbus, Ohio: 400 Paleozoic invertebrate fossils from the Tintic District, Utah (188363).

MuwnbDorrr, Capt.-G. T., Alexandria, Va.: Bronze cannon of southeast Asia, 17th to 18th century (189960).

MourpocH, WaAtLuAcE P., Logan, Utah: 22 snipe flies from Utah (189225).

Muris, ApoLtpH, Moose, Wyo.: 1 lichen from Alaska (188988).

MurpHy, Grorar, Washington, D. C.: Food-slicing machine (188878).

MorpHy, Metvin F., Odgen, Utah: 6 slides and 10 unmounted specimens, including 3 types of a new nematode (187045).

Mourray, Sgt. Epwarp, Arlington, Va.: 1 frog, 4 snakes, 10 lizards, 1 mouse, 1 sun spider, and 1 scorpion from Saudi Arabia, collected in 1950 by donor and companions (187735).

Murray, Grorer, Washington, D. C.: A plaster bust of Wilhelm Conrad Rontgen (191193).

(See under

(See under UniMarine Labor-

Murray, Dr. J. J., Lexington, Va.: 11 birds from Virginia (190814).

Musto ARGENTINA DE CIENCIAS NatURALES, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 22 paratypes of stinkbugs from New World (189726, exchange).

MusrEo pDE Hisrorta NATURAL ‘JAVIER Prapo,” Lima, Peru: 107 plants from Peru (187512, 187696) ; 2,127 plants collected in Peru by Ramon Ferreyra (188668, 189712, 190275, 191103) ; (through Dr. W. Weyrauch) 99 bugs from South America (190980).

Museo DE HisTorra Natura, Montevideo, Uruguay: 30 cryptogams from South America (191064, exchange).

Museu Dr. AtvAro DE Castro, Lourengo Marques, Mozambique, Africa ; (Through Donald Lamm) 117 birds from Portuguese Kast Africa (187791, exchange).

Museu Nacronat, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 5 plants from Brazil (185297). MUSEU PARANAENSE, Curitiba, Parana,

Brazil: 51 plants collected in Brazil (187304, 189716); 5 grasses from Brazil (187314) ; (through Dr. Carlos Stelifeld) 6 Brazilian phanerogams

(189765).

MUsEUM or Naturat HisTory, Geneva, Switzerland: (Through Dr. Charles Ferriere) Cotype of an ant from North America (189388, exchange).

Musi, Atvina, Beltsville, Md.: 3 plants from Minnesota (188439).

Myers, Dr. Grorce S. (See under Stanford University, Natural History Museum.)

NAropni MusEuM V Pra4zE, Prague, Czechoslovakia: (Through Dr. Ludvik Hoberlandt) 1 stinkbug from Iraq (1890380, exchange).

Naropny, Leo H., Roseau, Dominica, British West Indies: 1 plant introduced in Dominica more than 50 years ago from the Old World (187673) ; 1 plant collected in Dominica (187994).

NATIONAL CAPITAL SESQUICENTENNIAL CoMMISSION, Washington, D. C.: 2 specimens of the official souvenir medal, in bronze, issued by the National Capital Sesquicentennial Commission (187998).

NATIONAL COTTON COUNCIL OF AMERICA, New York, N. Y.: 26 cotton fabrics of 1951 (191146).

NATIONAL HERBARIUM, Sydney, New South Wales: 128 plants from Australia (188764, exchange, 190082, gift-exchange) ; 128 plants collected in New South Wales, Australia, by various collectors (187308, 188132, exchange).

NATIONAL Minirary ESTABLISHMENT. (See under Department of Defense.)

NaTIoNAL PuHorograpHic Socrery, Washington, D. C.: (Through Harry 
<<<105>>>
B. Shaw) 1950 Salon of the National Photographie Society, consisting of 60 monochrome color prints and 56 color transparencies (189088, loan). Nationat ResearcH Councit, Pacific Science Board, Scientific Investigations of Micronesia, Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. M. W. de Laubenfels) 867 sponges, including 98 types (187487) ; (through Dr. John W. Wells) 295 mollusks, 5 scorpions, echinoderms, and marine invertebrates from Arno Atoll, Marshall Islands (190125) ;(with the Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, Ojfice of Naval Research, through Dr. Joe T. Marshall, Jr.) i1 mammals and 2 birds from Arno Atoll, Marshall Islands (188357).

Nationat Savines & Trust Co. (See under Amy Wetmore May (deceased).)

NATIONAL SPELEOLOGICAL Society. (See

under Mrs. James Blizzard.)

NATIONAL TAIWAN UNIVERSITY, Taiwan, China: 458 plants from Formosa, collected mostly by H. Keng (190382, exchange).

NATURAL History Museum, San Diego, Calif.: 1 plant from California (187738) ; 128 plants from western United States, collected by Daniel Cleveland (187793).

NATURHISTORISCHES Musrum, Vienna, Austria: (Through Dr. Hans Strouhal) 2 ecotypes of ants from North America (189387, exchange).

NATURHISTORISKA RIKSMUSEETS, Stockholm, Sweden: (Through Frans BH. Wickman) 7 mineral specimens from Sweden: manganchlorite, hydrocerussite, bromellite, arsgenoclasite, and hornesite from Langban; selenokobellite from Boliden; and odenite from Finbo, Dalarne (183957, exchange).

Nayar, K. Nacappan, Madras, India: 79 amphipods from India (188368). Naytor, W. E., San Diego, Calif,: Approximately 200 marine mollusks from the eastern Pacific (190756, ex-

change).

NEBRASKA, UNIVERSITY oF, State Museum, Lincoln, Nebr.: (Through Harold A. Hauke) 31 grasshoppers from Nebraska (190401).

NeepuHam, Dr. P. R., Berkeley, Calif. : Approximately 25 amphipods (188924).

NEELY, Hpwarp H., Miami, Fla. : Wheatstone bridge and galvanometer (187-

450). Nem, Rozert D., Arlington, Va.: Shrunken human head from the

Jivaro Indians of Beuador obtained by donor in Quito (188436). New HAMPSHIRE isu AND GamE Dp-

PARTMENT, Concord, N. H.: (Through Ralph G. Carpenter, 2nd) 2 fishes in breeding coloration taken from Lake Sunapee, N. H. (189445).

New Mexico, Musrum oF, Santa Fe, N. Mex.: (Through Dr. Bertha P. Dutton) Reconstructed skull with lower jaw and filed incisor tooth from Tajumulco, Guatemala (2 specimens) (189391).

New Mexico, UNIVERSITY or, Albuquerque, N. Mex.: (Through Dr. Stuart A. Northrup) 6 pieces of matrix exhibiting the disassociated centronuchal, postero-medio-dorsal, medioventral, ete., of the Devonian antiarch, Bothriolepis coloradensis Wastman from the Chaffee formation, Glenwood Springs quadrangle, Colo., collected by N. W. Bass and §S. A. Northrup, September 1950 (189446, exchange).

New York, State UNIVERSITY oF, Syracuse, N. Y.: College of Forestry, 19 wood samples of trees of the United States, collected under Wood Technology Project I (191066, exchange).

New York BoranicaL GarpEnN, New York, N. Y.: 2 grasses from Greenland (1873810); 1 plant collected in British Guiana by the Forest Service (187815) ; 120 ferns and 35 plants from Ecuador, collected by W. H. Camp (187458, 187857) ; 38 plants and 2 grasses from Heuador (187824, 189167, 189329) ; 38 plants, mostly American (1883388, gift-exchange); 213 grasses from northwestern Himalaya Mountains, collected by Dr. R. R. Stewart (188765, exchange) ; 4 plants from South America (189158); 595 plants collected in Kashmir by Dr. R. R. Stewart (190089, 190880, 190935, exchange); 183 plants from South America collected by B. Maguire and others (190833, exchange).

New York State Museum, Albany, N. Y.: 220 plants, mostly from New York (190271, exchange).

New York ZooLtocicaL Socrmry, New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr. William Beebe) 16 frogs from British Guiana and Venezuela collected by Dr. Beebe (188951).

NEW ZEALAND D&rPARTMENT OF SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRIAL RESEAROH, Wellington, New Zealand: 60 grasses from New Zealand (187625, gift-exchange) ; (through Ruth Mason) 10 plants (187756).

Nicot, Dr. Davin, Washington, D. C.: 1 stomatopod (1880238) ; approximately 100 marine shells from Longboat Key, Fla. (188052); approximately 250 marine mollusks from Solomons Island, Md. (188305) ; a paratype of a fossil pelecypod, Upper Oligocene or 
<<<106>>>
Lower Miocene, San Luis Obispo County, Calif. (189332).

Nreisen, N. T., Melrose, Fla.: 8 small bronze coins of Alexandria (187890).

Ninincer, H.. H., Winslow, Ariz.: A specimen of the Santa Rosalia, Baja California, meteorite weighing 45 grams (189946, exchange).

NortH CAROLINA, UNIVERSITY oF, Institute of Fisheries Research, Morehead City, N. C.: (Through Dr. W. H. Sutcliffe, Jr.) 15 lots, more than 168 specimens, of marine invertebrates, 4 echinoderms, and 3 mollusks (189912).

NortH CARoLtinaA STATE WILDLIFE RESOURCES Commission, Asheville, N. C.: (Through Malcolm G. Hdwards) 28 small mammals from western North Carolina (190178).

NortH DaAxkorTa AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Fargo, N. Dak.: 216 plants from North Dakota (188937, exchange).

Norturvup, Dr. Stuart A. (See under University of New Mexico.)

NtwNez, Dr. René. (See under Instituto de Pesca del Pacifico.)

Nutr, Davip ©. (See under J. Peter Johnson. )

OAKLEY, KENNETH P. (See under British Government, British Museum (Natural History).)

OAKLEY, Capt. L. A., Jr., Washington, D. C.: Japanese copy of the United States Garand rifle (189412, exchange).

OBERG, Mrs. RutH, Oaxaca, Oaxaca, Mexico: 1 katydid, 1 weevil, and 1 scarab beetle from Mexico (187476, 187548).

O'Hara, Lt. PATRICTA. Vivian C. O’Hara.)

O’Hara, Mrs. Vivian C., Vancouver, British Columbia: (Through Lt. Patricia O’Hara) 1 decorated Blackfoot Indian paint pouch, collected by Harold Nelson Shaw in Canada ea. 1900 (188931).

OKLAHOMA, UNIVERSITY oF, Norman, Okla.: 7 grasses from Oklahoma (187769).

OKLAHOMA AGRICULTURAL AND MeEcHANICAL CoLLeGE, Stillwater, Okla.: 2 grasses from Oklahoma (187739); (through Dr. George A. Moore) 87 fishes, all paratypes, from Oklahoma (190959).

OXKULITCH, Dr. VLADIMIR J., Vancouver, British Columbia: 17 Devonian brachiopods from the Rocky Mountains of Alberta (190971).

OLtp, Wi11am E., Jr., A. P. O., San Francisco, Calif.: Approximately 480 fresh-water mollusks from Korea (188146, 190596, 191090) ; 17 amphibians and reptiles from Korea collected

(See under Mrs.

by Lu Hitai (189157); 14 lizards found in an abandoned school in Taejon, Korea, by the donor (189662); 2 frogs, 2 crayfishes, 4 shrimps, 15 fishes, and 1 insect from Korea collected by donor (190261).

Otiver, Mrs. Lirwre~tyn Wut1iaM. (See under Mrs. Joseph T. Clarke.)

OLIveR, Mrs. Stmreon, Anchorage, Alaska: 85 plants from Alaska (187878).

OLIvER, SMITH HeEMpstonr, Washington, D. C.: Pocket arithometer (1898380).

Outvier, Dr. Louis J. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. S. Public Health Service, Bethesda, Md.)

Oman, Maj. Pau W. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Army.)

OrxcHarpD, C. D., San Antonio, Tex.: 2 land snails from near Uvalde, Tex. (190023).

OREGON INSTITUTE OF MARINE BioLoey, Charleston, Oreg.: (Through James A. Macnab) 4 crabs (187627).

OREGON STATE CoLLEGE, Corvallis, Oreg. : (Through Dr. B. G. Thompson) 10 Slugs from Oregon (191086).

Ovey, Dr. Cameron D., London, England: 10 microfossil samples from the Recent of the West Indies, Ireland, Scotland, and Torres Straits; Eocene of England, France, and Australia; Miocene of France; Cretaceous of Wngland (185118, exchange) ; 17 topotypes and 10 specimens of 3 species of Foraminifera from Recent deposits off Kandavu, Fiji Islands (190640, exchange).

Owen, Rosert, New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt) 1 crayfish (188564).

Passt, Dr. Apotr, Berkeley, Calif.: 1 creedite specimen from Darwin, Calif. (189954). (See also under University of California. )

Pain, T., London, England: 2 freshwater mollusks from Venezuela and 1 from Panama (188352, exchange).

PALEONTOLOGISK Musrum, Oslo, Norway: 4 pieces of early Ordovician rock containing brachiopods from

Krekling, Norway (190198, exchange). PALMER, Mrs. Ciara, Capitol View

Park, Md.: 2 unfired .22 caliber brass cartridge cases (189453).

PANAMA CANAL, THE, Health Department, Balboa Heights, C. Z.: 36 mammals collected by Dr. Herbert C. Clark in Bocas del Toro, Panama (187516) ; 45 mammals collected by Dr. Herbert ©. Clark on the Rio Platanar, Proyince of Darien, Panama (187773) ; (through Dr. K. O. Courtney) 55 mammals from Panama _ (187201, 
<<<107>>>
189906); (through Dr. Herbert C. Clark) 86 mammals from Mexico and Panama (190871).

PARKER, FRANCES, La Jolla, Calif.: 35 Foraminifera from the Recent of the Atlantic (191072, exchange).

ParKerR, H.L. (See under U.S. Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine, European Parasite Laboratory.)

PARKMAN, CHARLES H., Elma, Wash.: Skull of dolphin from Westport, Wash. (187937).

PARKS, JAMES, Madison, Wis.: 41 slides and 7 type specimens of Mississippian corals from Utah (187703).

Paterson, W. C., Denver, Colo.: 10 uranium-vanadium ore specimens from near Thompsons, Utah (188976).

PATRAW, PAULINE M., Santa Fe, N. Mex.: 16 plants from New Mexico and Colorado (188425).

PEarsE, Prof. A. S., Durham, N. C.: Approximately 72 marine invertebrates and 126 Crustacea (187923, 188021) ; 6 mollusks from off New River, N. C. (188150) ; 1 isopod, corals, and mollusks (188793).

Pease, Mrs. Hueu M., Fort Foote, Md.: A kingbird (1907385); a bobwhite (191101).

PEKING UNIonN MEpDIcAL CoLLecs, Department of Anatomy, Peking, China: (Through Dr. Davidson Black) Bones of mammals from Fengtien Cave, near Peking, China (188944).

PENN, Prof. Grorck Henry, New Orleans, La.: 3 types of a crayfish (187210) ; 102 crayfishes (191035).

PENNAK, Dr. Rosert W., Boulder, Colo. : 7 larvae of moth flies from Grand Canyon (188509) ; 2 mountain midges from Colorado (188892).

PENNINGTON, W. E., Lakeland, Fla.: 13 specimens of siliceous cylindrical formations from Hillsboro County, Fla., which include 6 siliceous fillings of burrowing bee chambers (188627).

PENNSYLVANIA, UNIVERSITY oF, Philadelphia, Pa.: 241 plants from Pennsylvania and adjoining States (187306, exchange).

PENNSYLVANIA HISTORICAL AND MvSEUM COMMISSION, Harrisburg, Pa.: (Through John Witthoft) Samples of pottery types Funck Incised and Schultz Incised from 3 sites in Lancaster County, Pa. (190378).

Penson, J. Huser, Washington, D. C.: 1 fern from Virginia (189707).

PropLes, Dr. JoHn, Petaluma, Calif.: 2 jadeite specimens from near Cloverdale, Sonoma County, Calif. (190749).

PrerpEw, A. G., Cumberland, Md.: 17 Lower Devonian and Silurian invertebrate fossils from the vicinity of Cumberland (187800).

PERLMUTTER, JACK, Washington, D. C.: 22 lithographs for special exhibition, May 21 through June 17, 1951 (190752, loan).

Prer.Lorr, Louis, Brooklyn, N. Y.: A Specimen of parsonite from Ruggles mine, Grafton, N. H. (189450).

Perry, Dr. Stuart H., Adrian, Mich.: A specimen of shale ball meteorite from the Wolf Creek Crater, Australia, weighing 391 grams (187886) ; a complete individual iron meteorite from near Mayodan, Rockingham County, N. C., weight 15,455 grams (187913) ; 3 meteorites: Laketon, Tex., 125 grams; Pierceville, Kans., 183 grams; and Wilmot, Kans., 133 grams (188407) ; 3 meteorites: Harrisonville, Mo., 18 pounds. ; Henbury, Australia, 3,850 grams; and Benton, New Brunswick, Canada, 205 grams (191071).

PETERSON, MENDEL L., Arlington, Va.: 7 assorted insignia and a button of the United States Maritime Service (187515) ; 37 rocks from various localities in the Antarctic region (187704).

PETTIBONE, Dr. MarraAn H., Washington, D. C.: 35 sipunculids and approximately 6 parasitic copepods (187217) : approximately 50 amphipods (187588).

Puitip, Dr. C. B., Hamilton, Mont.: 2 paratypes of horseflies from North America (188143); 1 male deerfly from Nevada (188890).

PHILLIPS, Dr. ALLAN R., Tucson, AYriz. : 1 skeleton of a flammulated screech owl (190077).

PHILLIPS, Harry, Washington, D. C.: 1 H-Z model Harrold exposure scale, 1 Kodachrome exposure guide for 16and 8-millimeter cameras, and 1 Kodachrome exposure guide, Type A Film-photo-flood Light (189957).

Puirecer, Dr. Frep B. (See under Scripps Institution of Oceanography. )

Pierce, Dr. E. Lowe, Gainesville, Fla. : 5 erabs (187236). (See also under University of Florida.)

Pierce, JouHn T., Annapolis, Md.: French Chattelerault machine rifle, model of 1924 (190294, exchange).

Pinous, ZDENEK, Hostinne n. L., Czechoslovakia : 500 specimens of Bryophyta (189877, exchange).

PITcAIRN, MicHaELt, Bryn Athyn, Pa.: 67 pictorial prints loaned for speciai exhibition during the month of April 1951 (190751, loan).

PITeLKA, Dr. F. A. (See under University of California, Musewm of Veriebrate Zoology.)

Pizzint, ANDREW, Paris, France: 180 amphipods, 18 crabs, and 7 isopods (190433). 
<<<108>>>
PuatTT, Mrs. H. H., Trenton, N. J.: 3 ambrotypes of posed subjects: death-bed Scene, Confederate soldier, and photographic caricature of Jefferson Davis in casket (189067).

PLETSCcH, Dr. Don J., Washington, D.C.: 13 earwigs from Japan (189731).

PLUMMER, Epna, Pasadena, Calif.: 407 wooden blocks used as braiding and embroidery patterns and 10 embroidery and braiding specimens (186730).

PorTEvIN, Dr. Rosert, Brussels, Belgium: 1 Jurassic ammonite from France (188420).

POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE OF PUERTO Rico, San German, P. R.: 154 plants from the Lesser Antilles collected by I. Velez (187906).

Post Orrice DrparTMENT, Washington, D. C.: 1 specimen each of postage stamps issued in foreign countries and described in Universal Postal Union Bulletin No. 16-IV, dated May 5, 1950 (210 specimens) (187263) ; 3 copies each of the following United States commemorative posta ge Stamps: 3-cent Freedom, National Capital Sesquicentennial Series, 3-cent Railroad Engineers of America, 3-cent Gateway to the West, and 3-cent Executive, National Capital Sesquicentennial Series (187554) ; 1 Specimen each of postage stamps issued in foreign countries and deScribed in the following Universal Postal Union Bulletins: No. 18-IV dated June 30, 1950; No. 21-IV dated July 21, 1950; No. 24-IV dated Aug. 29, 1950; No. 26-IV dated September 8, 1950; No. 28-IV dated September 22, 1950 (642 specimens) (188470) ; 3 copies each of the following United States commemorative posta ge stamps: 3-cent Boy Scouts of America; 3-cent Indiana Territory Sesquicentennial; 3-cent Judicial, National Capital Sesquicentennial Series : 3-cent California Statehood; 3-cent legislative, National Capital Sesquicentennial Series (189156).

Potter & JOoHNsTON Co. (See under American Screw Company.)

PoucH, Dr. Frep H. (See under American Museum of Natural History.) Pratt, Dr. Harry D. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. 8. Public

Health Service, Atlanta, Ga.)

PREBLE, Epwarp A. (See under Mrs. P. L. Reagan.)

PRICE, JOHN, Lancaster, Pa.: 10 Paleozoic invertebrate specimens from Swatara Gap, Pa. ( 188643).

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, Princeton, N. J.: (Through Prof. E. Newton Harvey) 10 ostracods and approximately 20 isopods (187574).

PRITCHARD, Prof. A. Hart. (See under University of California.)

Proctor, GrorcE R. (See under Institute of Jamaica, Science Museum.) Proctor, Mrs. Joun L., Washington, D. C.: A doll’s Spode wash-bowl and pitcher, a Britannia-metal Inug, and

a Britannia-metal beaker (188487).

PROVINCIAL Museum, Victoria, B. C.: (Through Dr. G. Clifford Carl) 66 parasitic copepods. (189429).

PUERTO Rico, UNIversIry or, Mayagiiez, P. R.: (Through Prof. N. T. Mattox) 13 shrimps and an insect (190869).

PuRDUE UNIvERsITy, Lafayette, Ind.: (Through Mrs. Fannie Mae Hurst) 6 phanerogams (Smilax) from United States (186690).

QUATE, LARRY W. Wygodzinsky. )

QUEENSLAND INSTITUTE oF MEDICAL RESEARCH, Brisbane, Australia: (Through Dr. I. M. Mackerras) 347 black flies from Australia (185968, exchange).

QUESTEL, ADRIEN, Point-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe: 12 marine shells, 2 wasps, and 1 beetle from Guadeloupe (187280).

RADULPHUS COLLEGE, Curacao, Netherlands West Indies: 10 plants from Curacao (190611).

RAEMAEKERS, ROLAND H., Antwerp, Belgium: 50 land and fresh-water mollusks from Africa (189493.)

RAGEOT, RocER, Washington, D. C.: mammals from Maryland (189073) : 25 small mammals from Newport, Md. (190006) ; 3 mammals from Virginia and the District of Columbia (191172).

RAMSEY, JAMES A., Hyattsville, Md.: Nazi Party uniforms, accessories, and equipment of the period of World War II, 44 specimens (187414).

RANEY, Dr. Epwarp ©. (See under Cornell University. )

Rapp, Ftoyp A., Jr., Washington, D. C.: Gold specimen in alaskaite from the Kinsei Mine, Shuny6 Gori, Kaishohoku D6, Korea (189449) ; 3 jadeite specimens (approximately 316 Ibs.) from Kotaki Village, W. Kubiki Go., Niigata Prefecture, Japan (189719) : 20 minerals from Japan (190644).

Rasett!I, Dr. Franco, Baltimore, Md.: 200 Triassic invertebrate fossils from the Italian Alps at Cortina d’Anpezzo, Italy (188638) ; 15 specimens and 2 casts of Cambrian trilobites from

(See under Dr. Petr

New York and New Brunswick (190841). Rat, P. (See under Université de

Dijon.)

Rauscu, Dr. Ropert. (See under Betty Locker and Federal Security Agency, U. 8. Public Health Service, Anchorage, Alaska.) 
<<<109>>>
ReaGan, Mrs. P. L. Sunbright, Tenn.: (Through Edward A. Preble) 1 shrew from Sunbright (187894).

ReATHER, Dr. CHESTER F., Baltimore, Md.: 2nd-prize winning print in the color division of the Third Photography-in-Science Competition, “Implantation of Human Ovum Twelve Days after Fertilization,” by donor (188503).

REDINGTON, C. RicHARD, Denver, Colo.: 2 mahonia wood specimens from southeastern Utah (188193).

REDMAN, CLeo L., Silver Spring, Md.: Japanese ceremonial sword of the latter part of the 17th century, and a small wooden stand for this sword (187458).

REED, Dr. CLypE T., Tampa, Fla.: 1 fern from Kentucky (187480) ; 1 plant collected in Florida (190002) ; approximately 100 marine and fresh-water mollusks from Florida (191217).

Reep, Mrs. Octavia B., St. Albans, W.

Va.: 2 ferns from Pennsylvania (189431). REEDER, Dr. JoHN R., New Haven,

Conn.: 10 plants collected in Mexico (190091).

REHN, JAMES A. G. (See under Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. )

REICHEL, Prof. M., Basel, Switzerland: 63 specimens of Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of Italy and Algeria (190388, exchange).

Renrro, Mrs. J. H., Fort Worth, Tex.: 5 fossil fishes from the upper Cretaceous, Eagleford formation, of Hilis County, Tex. (183999, exchange) ; 1 palm-tree stump from the Cretaceous of Texas (188429).

RENNIE, R. G., Balboa, C. Z.: Military officer’s uniform button of the Republic of New Granada, Colombia, of the period 1887-1859 (187416).

RHOADES, Dr. RENDELL, Blanchester, ‘Ohio: Approximately 2,362 marine invertebrates, 30 insects, 1 scorpion, and mollusk specimens (185624).

RHODES UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, Grahamstown, C. P., South Africa: (Through Dr. J. L. B. and Margaret M. Smith) 91 fishes from Knysna Hstuary, Cape Province (177985, exchange).

Riccio, J. F., Los Angeles, Calif.: 4 metatypes of a Pleistocene foraminifer and 1 sample of Timms Point silt from California (1903887).

RIcHMOND, Maj. Epwarp A., Westover, Mass.: 10 beetles from Mississippi and New Jersey (187718).

RIJKSHERBARIUM, Leiden, Netherlands: 87 plants collected in the Malay Archipelago (187948, exchange).

RIJKSMUSEUM VAN NATUURLIJKE HisTorin, Leiden, The Netherlands:

(Through Dr. L. B. Holthuis) 29 gorgonians, including 9 types (189992).

RIJKSUNIVERSITEIT TE UTRECHT, Botanisch Museum en Herbarium, Utrecht, Netherlands : 50 plants collected from the Netherlands by various collectors (188914, exchange).

RIKER, O. PERRY. (See under Economic Cooperation Administration. )

RInDGE, FREDERICK H. (See under American Museum of Natural History.)

Riptey, Dr. S. Ditton. (See under Yale University, Peabody Musewm of Natural History.)

Rozss, Grorep A., Los Angeles, Calif. : Ten-dollar note of the Confederate States of America (189455).

Roverts, Dr. F. H. H., Jr. (See under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Hthnology, River Basin Surveys.)

Rogertson, Dr. JAMES D., Zanzibar, British East Africa: 20 mollusks from “Zanzibar (189738).

Ropinson, JOHN H., Collinsville, Ill: 1 beetle from Placerville, Calif. (188397).

ROCHESTER MUSEUM OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, Rochester, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Alfred K. Guthe) collection of bone, stone, and pottery artifacts from various sites in New York State (188489, exchange).

RoEBLING FUND, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: 4 minerals from various localities, including dioptase from California, hulsite from Alaska, yttergarnet and meliphanite from Norway, and sellaite from France (187517) ; 1 danburite, 2 montesite, and 2 greenockite mineral specimens from Bolivia (187827); a cornetite specimen from the Empire-Nevada Mine, Yerington, Nevada (188188) ; 1 augelite and 2 silver specimens from Bolivia; 1 catapleiite, 1 eudialyte from Sweden; 3 hedleyite specimens, and 1 polybasite with pyrargyrite from British Columbia (1883842) ;. 1 stepcut pink tourmaline from Manchuria, weighing 110.8 carats, and one sphalerite specimen from Japan (188569) ; 4 ludlamite specimens from Idaho (188744) ; 3 vivianite specimens from the Utah Copper Mine, Bingham Canyon, Utah, and 1 specimen of chrysocolla pseudomorph after cuprite from the Copper Mt.—Pilot Range, Box Elder County, Utah (188812); 2 whitlockite specimens from Palermo Mine, N. H. (189064) ; 1 specimen of langite from Cornwall, Hngland, and 1 of fluorite from Clay Center, Ohio (189114); 12 minerals, including colusite, Montana; wehrlite, Quebec ; 
<<<110>>>
Roebling Fund Smithsonian Institution—Continued

carphosiderite and danburite, Mexico; groutite, Minnesota; merumite, British Guiana; prehnite and sartorite, Switzerland; uzebekite, Turkestan; and 1 libethenite, Arizona (189217) ; 3 minerals, wolfeite and brazilianite from New Hampshire and riebeckite from Kenya, Africa (189294); 4 minerals from Switzerland : epidote from Guttannen-Kammegg, fluorite from Grimsel, and 2 apatite on adularia specimens from Rhonegletscher (189910); 1 carnotite from Pennsylvania; 1 autunite from France, and 2 specimens of uraninite from North Carolina and New York (189951) ; 1 hutchinsonite specimen from Switzerland and 1 sphalerite from Nigeria (189952) ; 3 bermanite specimens from near Bagdad Copper Mine, west of Hillside, Ariz. (190888); 1 vanadinite from San Carlos Mine, Chihuahua, Mexico, and 1 lepidocrocite from near Giessen, Germany (190389) ; a kornerupine from Ceylon, weighing 1.60 carats (190890); 4 uraninite specimens from Czechoslovakia, Belgian Congo, and Canada (190395); 4 minerals: berzelianite and zeunerite from Nevada, tyuyamunite from Utah, and whitlockite from New Hampshire (190397); a brown peridot from Ceylon weighing 14.385 carats (190960); 138 euclase specimens consisting of 10 erystals and 3 cut from Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais, Brazil (190961); a specimen of the Maziba, Uganda, Africa meteorite (190962); 3 topaz erystals from Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais, Brazil (190963).

RorpPkeE, Dr. W., Te Wageningen, Netherlands: 2 beetles and 2 moths from Java (188142).

Rocrrs, CHARLES B., Lindsborg, Kans.: 36 prints by Mr. Rogers lent for special exhibition during September 1950 (187967, loan).

RowRER, JOSEPHINE H., Washington, D. C.: A pair of gold-mounted coral pendant earrings, a coral brooch, a small silver box containing 6 miniature gold coins, and an Hgyptian searab (190790).

Ronne, Commander Finn, Silver Spring, Md.: 1 fish and an ophiuran from Marguerite Bay, Antarctica (181171).

Roos, Joun C., Loma Linda, Calif.: 29 plants from California (191059).

Rose, Monica, Ankara, Turkey: 3 plants collected in Turkey (189708).

ROsENGURTT, Dr. Bernarpo, Florida,

969583—52 ré

Uruguay: 80 grasses from Paraguay and Uruguay (191104).

Ross, Dr. Hpwarp §8., San Francisco, Calif. : 2 mosquitoes from Philippines (187824).

Ross, Dr. H. H. (See under Illinois State Natural History Survey Division. )

Ross, Dr. Rervusen, Jr., Middletown, Conn. : 42 silicified trilobites from the Garden City formation near Logan, Utah (189023).

Rossi, Dr. A. L. BriceNo. (See under Instituto Nacional de Higiene.)

RorH, Lours M. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Army, Office of the Quartermaster General. )

Rots, Vincent D., Corvallis, Oreg.: 7 amphipods (187628) ; 6 spiders from Oregon (189125, exchange).

Row.Ley, ELMER B., Glens Falls, N. Y.: 1 specimen of pyrite and magnetite erystals in chlorite schist from Chester, Vt. (188364, exchange).

Roy, Dr. D. N. (See under School of Tropical Medicine. )

Roy, Dr. SHarat K. (See under Chicago Natural History Museum.)

RoyaL Boranic GARDENS, Kew, Surrey, England: 87 grasses from Nigeria (187947, exchange); 2 plants from Fiji (188337, exchange).

RoyaAL Forrest DEPARTMENT, Forest Products Researeh Division, Bangkok, Thailand: 48 phanerogams of Thailand (189665, exchange).

RoyaL ONTARIO MuUsEUM oF ZOOLOGY, Toronto, Ontario: 1 Brunnich’s murre (190629).

Rupp, VELVA H., Washington, D. C.: 41 plants collected in Maryland (189820).

RuwHorr, THEODORE B., Arlington, Va.: 1 parasitic isopod from a fresh-wateraquarium eatfish (186215).

Rupert, LAURENCE R., Sardinia, N. Y.: 38 butterflies and 10 noctuid moths from New York (187977, exchange).

RusHLIGHT CLUB, Brookline, Mass.: A device for cleaning inside of kerosene lamp chimneys (191093).

RYAN, Epwarp Parsons, Newark, Del.: 6 crabs (190702).

Saprosky, C. W., Washington, D. C.: Type and allotype of 2 flies from Kansas (187328).

Sanama, Dr. Tu. G., Helsinki, Finland: 4 pyrallolite specimens from Tytyri Quarry, Lohja, southwestern Finland (189041).

Sr. XAviER’s COLLEGE, Bombay, India: 80 Indian lichens (189048).

SaxKural, Dr. K., Tokyo, Japan: 2 specimens of the mineral yugawaralite 
<<<111>>>
from near Fudo Waterfall, Yugawara | ScHMALTz, Mrs. Frep, Scranton, Pa.: 2

Hot Spring, Ashigarakami-gori, Kanagawa Prefecture, and 1 kobelite from Kobe Village Naka-gori, Kyoto Prefecture, Japan (188182, exchange).

SALSMAN, Col. JoHN G., Falls Church, Va.: 11 ethnological specimens, including 5 basketry hats, a carved wooden and 4 tubular iron tobacco pipes, 1 muitiple-strand necklace of glass and seed beads and pendants of shell acquired in the town of Bontok, north-central Luzon, Philippine Islands (188485).

SALTER, WILLIAM, Washington, D. C.: 12 crabs from St. Marys River, Md. (188022) ; approximately 40 land and fresh-water mollusks from Oklahoma (188145) ; 200 Devonian invertebrate fossils from White Mound, Murray County, Okla. (188635).

Sampson, ALpIN R., St. Paul, Minn.: (Through T. E. Wilson) 1 rutherfordine specimen from base of petrified tree stump north of Phoenix, Ariz. (187268).

SANcHEzZ, Dr. Jos&, Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico: 71 Mexican ferns (188798).

Sanps, Mrs. WaArrEN, Washington, D. C.: Cherry drop-leaf table of the early 19th century (190978).

SaRGENT, F. H., Falls Church, Va.: 2

plants from southeastern United States (188496). SAUNDERS, Mrs. DorotHy, Denver,

Colo. : 30 plants from Mexico (184663, 188030).

Saxton, R. N., Stafford, Va.: 1 nighthawk from Virginia (188406).

Saxton, V. F., Mount Arab, N. Y.: 4 marine mollusks from South Africa and New Caledonia (190038).

SBARBARO, Dr. CaMILLO, Genova, Italy: 52 Huropean lichens (188335, exchange).

SCAGEL, ROBERT, Berkeley, Calif. : 49 lots of plankton and 4 fishes (189165). SCALES, Mi~prep B. (See under Metropolitan Camera Club Council, Inc.) ScCATTERGOOD, Dr. LESLIE W. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish

and Wildlife Service.)

Scuept, Dr. Kart B., Lienz, Osttirol, Austria: 4 bark beetles from South America (188506, exchange).

ScHEFrER, Victor. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

Scotter, Evererr LL. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. 8. Public Health Service, Anchorage, Alaska.)

ScHLEcHT, Witttam G., Washington, D. C.: A lizard from Shenandoah National Park, Va., collected on June 10, 1950 by donor (187548).

Easter eggs, hand decorated in Pennsylvania “Dutch” manner (191056). SCHMECKEBIER, Dr. LAURENCE F. (See

under Cosmos Club.)

SCHMID, FREDERICK C., Lancaster, N. H.: An evening grosbeak from New Hampshire (190174).

ScHMiTT, Dr. WALDO L. Robert Owen.)

ScHOLANDER, Dr. P. F., Boston, Mass.: 3 lichens (188322).

ScHOOL oF TROPICAL MrEprIcrIngE, Calcutta, India: (Through Dr. D. N. Roy) 71 reptiles from India and southern Asia from the collections of the School of Tropical Medicine (190058).

SCHROEDER, WILLIAM. (See under U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

SCHUHMACHER, Henry, Roslindale, Mass.: Souvenir medallion issued by the Boston Numismatic Society in 1920 to commemorate its 60th Anniversary (187556). (See also under Boston Numismatic Society. )

ScHuLtTz, Dr. ApotpH H., Baltimore, Md.: 64 skulls of Swiss Alpines from Lenz and Platta in Canton Grisons, eastern Alps, prior to 1850, and 1 skull from La Cabrera, Venezuela (188059, exchange); 170 porpoise skulls (188283) ; skull of walrus from Spitzbergen (189300, exchange).

ScHUSTER, Dr. R. M., Minneapolis, Minn.: 42 paratypes of wasps from North America (188343).

SCHUSTER, Prof. RupotF M., University, Miss. : 197 North American Hepaticae (189441).

ScHuster, W. H. (See under Laboratorium Penjelidikan Laut.)

ScHwakz, Dr. HRnst, Bethesda, Md. : 32 fishes from south of Buenos Aires, Argentina, collected November 1948 (188645). (See also under Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, National Naval Medical Center, and Naval Medical School.)

SCHWENGEL, Dr. JEANNE S., Greenwich, Conn.: 36 marine, fresh-water, and land mollusks (188149); 7 marine mollusks from Fiji, Japan, and Australia (190407).

ScIENTIFIC MontTHLy, THE, Washington, D. C.: (Through Mrs. Gladys Keener) 73 scientific photographic prints of the 4th Annual Photography-in-Science competition exhibited during January 1951 (189725, loan).

Scorr, Freprrtc R., Ann Arbor, Mich.: 24 birds from Virginia (187524) ; 16 birds from Virginia (188405).

Scort, Mrs. WALTER F., Riverdale, Md.: Small silk United States flag, ca. 1877 (189028).

(See under 
<<<112>>>
Scripps INSTITUTION OF OCEANOGRAPHY, Marine Foraminifera Laboratory, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Dr. Fred B. Phleger) 25 bottom samples containing Recent Foraminifera from Gulf of Mexico (189402, exchange).

SEamMsteER, Dr. AARON, Corpus Christi, Tex.: 3 shrimps (186675).

SecHrist, E. E., San Diego, Calif.: (Through Dr. John W. Aldrich) 1 nest and 1 set of 6 eggs of yuma rail from the Alamo River, Imperial County, Calif. (187402).

SempMan, A. K. (See under Linde Air Products Co.)

Serrz, Dr. JAMes F. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

Sennotr, Mrs. Guapys, Fort Myers Beach, Fla.: 1 marine mollusk from the Gulf of Campeche (190653).

SERVICO DE PiscrcuLTuRA, Departmento Nacional de Obras Contra as Sécas, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil: 2 plants from Brazil (187511); 12 phanerogams from Ceara (187521, 187698) ; (through VY. C. de Franca) 5 plants from Brazil (187825).

SERVICO FLORESTAL Do Es Tapos, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 28 plants collected in Brazil by D. B. Pickel (188350).

SesHapri, Prof. T. R., Delhi, India: 4 lichens from India (188989).

SerHna, Dr. Suresh M., Bombay, India: 4 lichens from India (188325).

Serzer, Dr. Henry W., Washington, D. C.: 1 bat collected in United States National Museum (188943).

Seymour, F. C., Tomahawk, Wis.: 1 plant collected in Massachusetts (189709).

SHAPPIRIO, JOEL, Washington, D. C.: An apophyllite specimen from Goose Greek, Loudon County, Va. (190589).

SHaAveR, Prof. Jesse M., Nashville, Tenn.: 7 ferns (187509).

SHaw, Harry B., Washington, D. C.: 1 Watkins actinometer, 1 ThorntonPickard shutter, 1 Heyde’s Aktinophotometer, and 1 Bewi Junior exposure meter (188646); 1 Busch Vademecum Set, series 2, consisting of 7 lenses, brass lens body, and 4 filters, together with a carrying case and set of instructions (189068). (See also

under National Photographie Society.) SHEAR, CornetIus L., Monroe, La.:

Early Pueblo III pottery bowl presumed to be from Montezuma Creek, San Juan County, eastern Utah and a male Indian skull from southeastern Colorado (189046).

SHERMAN, JOHN D., Mount Vernon, N. Y.: 450 miscellaneous papers for

969583—52 8

the Casey Room, Division of Insects (188712).

SHEWELL, Guy. (See under Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture, Canadian National Collection.)

SHIFFLET, Hiainr, San Antonio, Tex.: 93 slides of type specimens of Foraminifera from the Hocene Aquia formation of Maryland and Virginia (190229).

SH1Ino, Dr. Suro M. Tsu City, Japan: 3 amphipods (187537).

Sirva, MANUEL G., La Belle, Fla.: 300 Pliocene mollusks from the Caloosahatchee formation of Florida (189881).

Stumons, Epwarp M., Avery Island, La.: 2 white-tailed deer from Avery Island (188845).

SIMPSON, GRIMMER, Washington, D. C.: 5 blue jays from Washington, D. C. (188048).

Simpson, Dr. THomas W., WinstonSalem, N. C. : 19 mosquito larvae from Dominican Republic (187806).

SIncLarR, RaLPH M., Nashville, Tenn.: 4 bats, 1 deer mouse, and 1 shrew (182750).

SINCLAIR, Mrs. Rogert, Hampton, Va.: Drawn-work handkerchief on pifia cloth decorated with embroidered birds and flowers, from the Philippine Islands (189997).

SINGER SEWING MACHINE Co., Washington, D. C.: 10 samples showing the use of Singer sewing machine attachments, and the 2 attachments, a blind hemmer and a buttonholer (189085).

SINGLETON, ANN, Washington, D. C.: Underwood typewriter used in typing the final report of General John J. Pershing as Commander-in-Chief of the American Expeditionary Forces during World War I (190400).

SINKANKAS, Lt. Comdr. Joun, Norfolk, Va.: A cabochon moonstone from Amelia, Va. (187677).

SKoTzKE, SiamMuNnD C., Milwaukee, Wis.: Cover showing Philippine Victory stamps with the special ecancellation “Unconditional Surrender of Japan, September 2, 1945-V-J Day” (189452).

SLACK, KEertH V., Bloomington, Ind.: 84 erayfishes (187270).

SLaTerR, Dr. JAMES A., Ames, Iowa: 10 stink bugs, 4+ from Texas and 6 from South America (190559, exchange).

Stoan, Mrs. SamMur~t M., Harbeson, Del.: Pottery vessel, excavated from pit 26, Townsend site, Lewes, Sussex County, Del. (188932).

Suares, Lt. Col. CLiirrorp Les, Arlington, Va.: 5 mollusean shells, also ethnological material consisting of weapons, musical instruments, food utensils, and a bark cloth beater col
<<<113>>>
lected by donor during World War II from a Melanesian village site located about 15 miles east of Aitape, north coast, northeastern New Guinea; also 2 Japanese abaci and 2 sets of chopsticks in cases (189705); 36 specimens of Japanese ordnance equipment and insignia (190104) ; large wooden bowl, ceremonial staff, spears and arrows collected by donor at a Melanesian village site from the vicinity of Aitape, northeastern New Guinea ; also 4 pair of wooden sapotes and a collection of toy earthenware vessels and stoves from the Philippine Islands (190734).

SmirH, Mrs. BENJAMIN (deceased) : (Through Col. Horace B. Smith) 7 miscellaneous costume items of the first quarter of the twentieth century (189684).

SmirH, CHarLes F., Lincoln, Nebr.: Holotype and 4 paratypes of a cestode from Carbon County, Wyo. (1903863).

Surry, Dr. F. G. Watton. (See under University of Miami, Marine Laboratory.)

SmitH, Dr. Hosart M. versity of Illinois.)

SmitTH, Col. Horace B. (See under Mrs. Bénjamin Smith (deceased).)

SmitTH, Dr. J. L. B. (See under Rhodes University College.)

SmitH, Dr. LymMAN B., Washington, D. ©C.: 1 lichen from Maryland (187797) ; 1 lichen from New Hampshire (189211) ; 179 plants collected in Maryland and Virginia (189818).

SmitH, MarcareT M. (See under Rhodes University College.) :

SmitH, Dr. RatPpH I. (See under University of California.)

Surry, Rosert O. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D. C.: A_ stereotype block ratehet used in Smithsonian Printing Shop 50 years ago (190484, deposit).

Bureau of American LHthnology: Archeological material from Postcontact Eskimo sites on Itkillik Lake and at’ Anaktuvuk Pass in the Brooks Range, northwestern Alaska, collected during the summer of 1949 in the Colville Basin by Arthur Bowsher and George Llano (187539) ; archeological materials from a mound at Natrium, Marshall County, W. Va., collected by Ralph S. Solecki during De-

‘ eember 1948 and January 1949 (187542) ; archeological material, mostly potsherds, from Utivé, Panama, collected by Dr. Matthew W.

(See under Uni-

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—Continued Stirling (189103); archeological materials from the Round Bottom Site on the Travis farm about 3% miles south of Moundsville, Marshall County, W. Va., collected, with the exception of 3 celts presented by Mr. Travis, by Ralph S. Solecki during December 1948 and January 1949 (189489) ; 23 lizards, 6 snakes, 13 frogs, 10 marine invertebrates, and insect specimens from Panama, collected by Dr. Matthew W. Stirling and party during the 1951 Smithsonian Institution-National Geographic Society expedition (191092) ; (through Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr.) approximately 250 spiders, 27 spring-tails, and 1 parasitic wasp from Cornwallis Island, Canadian Arctic, collected by Mr. Collins in summer of 1950 on National Museum of Canada-Smithsonian Institution Expedition (188344).

Bureau of American Hihnology, River Basin Surveys: Archeological materials and skeletal remains of 7 individuals from the Addicks Reservoir, on South Mayde Creek in Harris County, 16 miles west of Houston, Tex., collected 1947 by Joe Ben Wheat (185184); archeological materials from 12 sites in Tenkiller Ferry Reservoir area, located on the Illinois River about 18 miles above its confluence with the Arkansas River and about 7 miles northwest of Vian, in Sequoyah and Cherokee Counties, Oklahoma, collected by David J. Wenner, Jr. (187265) ; archeological materials surface-collected from 2 sites in the Hulah Reservoir area on Caney River about 15 miles northwest of Bartlesville, near Hulah, northeastern Osage County, Okla., collected in 1947 by David J. Wenner Jr. (187266); archeological materials surface-collected from 17 sites in the Fort Gibson Reservoir area, a Corps of Engineers water-

‘eontrol project on the Grand (Neosho) River, beginning 7.7 miles above its mouth and including portions of Wagoner, Cherokee, and Mayes Counties, Okla., collected in 1947 by David J. Wenner, Jr. (187267) ; archeological material, mainly stonework, from the West Fork Reservoir, Lewis County, West Virginia, collected by Ralph Solecki in April 1948 (187540) ; archeological material from Bluestone Reservoir area, on the New River, 100 miles south of ‘Charleston, between Hinton and 
<<<114>>>
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—Continued | SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—Continued

Narrows, W. Va.; in Giles County, Va.; Monroe and Summers Counties, W. Va., collected by Ralph S. Solecki, March-May 1948 (187541) ; approximately 80 fossil mammals from the Boysen Reservoir area of Wyoming, the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area of Montana and the Garrison Reservoir area of North Dakota, collected by Dr. T. E. White (187742) ; (through Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.) 4 specimens, including Creodont skull from the Paleocene of North Dakota, Plesiosaur skull, fish and a marine turtle from the Pierre Cretaceous, collected by Dr. T. E. White at the Fort Randall Reservoir area in South Dakota

(188194) ; (through Dr. Paul L. Cooper) 4 fresh-water mussels from Hitchcock County, Nebr. (188807).

National Museum, coliected by members of the staff: Approximately 10,000 marine and land shells from Hast Africa, collected by R. Tucker Abbott (187610) ; approximately 80 land and fresh-water mollusks from Guatemala, collected by Dr. W. F. Foshag (187767) ; 453 bird skins, 29 bird skeletons, 4 mammals, 8 mollusks collected by Dr. Herbert Friedmann in Africa (187168); approximately 117 spiders, mites, ants, termites, and miscellaneous insects from Barro Colorado Island, C. Z., collected by J. E. Graf for the National Museum (188710); 1 land mollusk from Barro Colorado Island, C. Z., collected by J. EK. Graf (189803) ; approximately 100 crabs, 132 shrimps, 4,890 marine invertebrates, 200 mollusks, and fossil specimens collected by Paul Illg (187867) ; 456 fishes from Swan Creek, Havre de Grace, Md., collected by Dr. Ernest A. Lachner, William T, Leapley, and Robert H. Kanazawa (191107); 2,318 mollusks, together with a small collection of reptiles, 2 fishes, approximately 245 Crustacea, and 5 insects, all from York, Northampton, and Acecomac Counties, Va., and from Worcester, Somerset, and Dorchester Counties, Md., collected by Dr. Joseph P. H. Morrison (187714) ; 322 plants from West Virginia, collected by Conrad VY. Morton (188438) ; 529 plants from Michigan collected by Conrad V. Morton (188761); 2,610 Honduran plants collected by Conrad V. Morton (190550) ; 201 bird skins, 11 bird skeletons, marine invertebrates, 194 mammals, 750 mollusks,

echinoderm specimens, 16 plants, and 138 brachiopods and invertebrate fossils, collected by David C. Nutt and Charles O. Handley, Jr., in Newfoundland and Labrador (188318).

National Museum, obtained by purchase: Horse medicine bundle of the late Wallace Night Gun, Piegan Blackfoot, leader of the Horse Medicine Cult, Blackfoot Reservation, Mont. (189268); 1 otter from Georgia (189645) ; 107 plants from Japan (190087) ; 441 Micronesian plants (190748).

National Museum, made in _ the Museum: 966 photographs of plants (191106).

National Zoological Park: 43 birds (1873899, 188041, 189047, 189817, 190736) ; 6 robber crabs (190042) ; 3 mollusks from southern Nyassaland, Africa (190654) ; 27 mammals (191158) ; (through Dr. William M. Mann) 15 giant crickets from Africa (189070).

SNELLING, Rogert, Turlock, Calif.: 77 bees and wasps from the United States (191152, exchange).

SNYDER, Dr. Frep M., Baltimore, Md.: 176 adult flies and 300 fly larvae from the United States (188891).

SocrepAD DE CreNcIAS Naturates La SALLE, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. F. Martin S.) 54 marine invertebrates and 2 insects (188024).

Sotano, Sister Francis, Rochester, N. Y¥.: 7 amphipods from Durand Eastman Park, Rochester (188992).

Sotecki, Ratpu S., Alexandria, Va.: Nazi Party uniform coat, breeches, jacket, cap, and sword knot of the period of World War II (187706).

SOMMERMAN, Dr. KATHARINE M., Washington, D. C.: 1 polychaete worm (188100).

Souxup, Dr. J., Lima, Peru: 37 Peruvian ferns (176223).

SouLze, JonN D. (See under University of Southern California, Allan Hancock Foundation.)

SoutH AUSTRALIAN Musreum, Adelaide, Australia: 28 bird skins from Australia (188870, exchange).

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, UNIVERSITY OF, Allan Hancock Foundation, Los Angeles, Calif. : 6 grasses from Mexico (187309) ; 2 butterflies from Grand Canyon, Ariz. (189226); (through John D. Soule) a bryozoan paratype (190870).

SouTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY, Dallas, Tex.: 50 plants from Texas (189878, exchange).

Soxman, R. C., Takoma Park, Md.: Wax candle for use in night lights, 
<<<115>>>
Jabeled ‘“Clarke’s Pyramid Patent Candle, The Burglar’s Horror” (190792).

SPANGLER, PAuL J., Athens, Ohio: Approximately 72 crustaceans and 41 amphipods (187536, 190709).

Spencer, H. J. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

SPERRY, JOHN L., Riverside, Calif.: 365 moths from India, Peru, and California (189964) ; 2 North American moths (191154).

SPETZMAN, Ltoyp, South St. Paul, Minn.: 97 plants from Alaska (188323).

SPRINGER, STEWART. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

SPRINGER FUND, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: 1 crinoid from Thedford, Ontario (188882) ; 113 Mississippian and Pennsylvanian crinoids, including 33 type specimens (189331); 23 fossil ecrinoids from the Mississippian and Pennsylvanian of northeastern Oklahoma (190964).

Squins & Sons, BH. R., New York, N. Y.: A 1%th-century German Materia Medica and Drug Price List (191196).

SRESHTHAPUTRA, VIJA, Bangkok, Thailand: A eollection consisting of 8 minerals, such as cassiterite, wolframite, and stibnite from several districts of Thailand (188351).

Sraats, Rep, Salt Lake City, Utah: 1 specimen of calcium fiuorite from Topaz Mountain, Juab County, Utah (187445).

StTasier, Mrs. Maurice J., Ashton, Md.: Seal press and tools and a brass telescope, which were used by Edward Stabler, of Sandy Spring, Md., previous to 1883 (62 specimens) (191191).

STAINBROOK, Dr. Merritt A., Brandon, Iowa: 4 Devonian brachiopods from Brandon (190235).

STANFORD UNIveERSITY, Dudley Her-

barium, Stanford, Calif.: (Through Dr. Ira L. Wiggins) 3 Ecuadorean ferns collected by Dr. Wiggins (187387).

Natural History Museum, Stanford, Calif.: (Through Dr. George S. Myers) 1 fish paratype from Nasugbu, Batangas Province, Philippine Islands, collected by A. W. Herre, December 11, 1936 (187411, exchange).

Sranton, HE. M. (deceased) : 6 specimens of calcite, Iceland spar, from New Mexico (188299).

SrarkK, Rosert J., Grapevine, Tex.: About 200 Pennsylvanian gastropods and sponges from the Graford formation in Texas (188534) ; 25 Pennsyl-

vanian corals and 2 rare Pennsylvanian stromatoporoids from Texas (189216).

StTarRKeEy, J. ALBERT, Vineland, N. J.: 1 crayfish (188626); 6 shrimps (189263).

Strate, U. S. DEPARTMENT oF, Institute of Inter-American Affairs, Lima, Peru: 225 grasses from Paraguay (187883).

STAUBLE, Father A., Quebec, Quebec: 2 micro-samples of Pleistocene age from the Province of Quebec (188679).

STEARNS, RicHarD H., Baltimore, Md.: Archeological material, predominantly pottery, collected by donor from sites in Horry County, S. C.; Chatham County, Ga.; and Bay, Franklin, Levy, Hillsborough, Collier, St. Lucie, Volusia, Flagler, and St. Johns Counties, Fla. (188274).

STEHLIK, Dr. JAROSLAV L., Brne, CzechoSlovakia: 175 bugs from Middle Hurope (190402, exchange).

STELLFELD, Dr. Cartos. (See under Museu Paranaense.)

Stevens, J. A., Nairobi, Kenya, Bast Africa: 1 specimen of trona and halite from Lake Katwe, Uganda (189022).

Strvens, Dr. J. T., Ada, Okla.: 2 brachiopods from the Silurian Henryhouse shale and 4 brachiopods from the Boggy shale of Oklahoma (190894).

Stevens, Prof. O. A., Fargo, N. Dak.: Holotype of a bee from North Dakota (187709).

STEvENSON, Dr. JoHN A., Beltsville, Md.: 59 lichens from Puerto Rico collected by Dr. Stevenson (187404).

STEWART, BELLE KATHERINE (deceased) : (Through Inez M. Stewart) 900 late Tertiary fossil plants from Crede, Colo. (188501).

STEWART, INEz M. (See under Belle Katherine Stewart.)

Stewart, Dr. Paun R., Waynesburg, Pa.: 3 Oligocene plants from Florissant, Colo. (188500).

Stewart, Dr. T. DALE. bert P. Gorman.)

STEYSKAL, GEORGE, Grosse Ile, Mich.: 28 biting midges and 14 flies from Michigan (187685, 188505) ; holotype, allotype, and paratype of robber fly (189829).

STINGLEY, Date V., Downers Grove, Tll.: 11 marine mollusks from Sanibel Island, Fla. (191091).

(See under Al-

Stock, Dr. J. H., Amsterdam, The Netherlands: 11 copepods (190118, exchange).

Sropparp, HerBert L.., Thomasville, Ga. : 88 bird skins from Georgia and Florida (189380). 
<<<116>>>
StoKEs, WILLIAM Mites, III, Lynchburg, Va.: 2 shoulder-sleeve patches of the “Armored School” and the “Demonstration Regiment” of the United States Armored Forces, unofficial design (190708).

Stone, Dr. ALAN. (See under Dr. Willis W. Wirth.)

Sronr, Benton, Arcadia, Calif.: 52 microsamples from the Tertiary and Cretaceous of Peru (185064, exchange).

STRANDTMANN, R. W., Lubbock, Tex.: 14 mites from Texas (188783).

Straus, Paut A., Summit, N. J.: 25 gold coins, 7 silver coins, and 1 specimen of copper plate money (188649).

STRENZKE, Dr. Kart, Plén, British Zone, Germany: 2 marine midges from Bulgaria (188510).

STRIMPLE, HARRELL, Bartlesville, Okla. : 2 foraminiferal samples from the Pennsylvanian of Oklahoma (190591) ; 1 foraminiferal sample from the Pennsylvanian of Kansas (190973).

STROMWASSER, JOSEPH, Bronx, New York: 1 large prehnite, 2 calcite, and 1 albite specimens from New Jersey (189721, exchange).

StrrouHAL, Dr. Hans. (See under Naturhistorisches Museum.)

StrurGeon, Dr. Myron T., Athens, Ohio: 15 Pennsylvanian snails from Athens County, Ohio (187828) ; 3 gastropods from Ohio (189087) ; 64 invertebrate fossils from the Mississippian Maxville limestone of Ohio (190097).

Sut Ross STATE CoLiece, Alpine, Tex. : 20 grasses from Texas collected by L. C. Hinckley (189151) ; 74 plants from Texas (189570).

Sun CHEMICAL CorP., Long Island City, N. Y.: 23 lithographs from the Fuchs and Lang collection of historical lithographs (185753).

SuTcLiFFe, Dr. W. H., Jr. (See under University of North Carolina, Institute of Fisheries Research.)

SypNEY, UNIVERSITY oF, Sydney, Australia: (Through Dr. D. J. Lee) 4 slides of biting midges from Australia (189728).

TAMBAKIS, MicHarL, Latrobe, Pa.: Distater of Alexander the Great (copy), 251.5 grams; Tetradrachm of Philip II of Macedon (holed); Denaro of Venice, 1289-1311; and brass good-luck piece of modern manufacture (191114).

TASHIAN, RicHArD E., Lafayette, Ind.: A shrimp and a crab from Guatemala (190819).

Taytor, Maj. HE. D., Kingston, Ontario: An amethystine quartz from Villeneuve, Quebec (190976).

TayLor, MartHa M., Washington, D.C.: Micrometer-type spherometer made by the donor’s cousin, Allen L. Colton (1857-1950) (189444).

Teaaue R. (See under Kenya Colony, Game Department.)

Teck, Tan Bene, Singapore, Straits Settlements: (Through Sally Lee) 3 marine pelecypods from Selangore, Malay Peninsula (190799).

TELBERG, VLADIMIR, New York, N. Y.: 60 pictorial prints for the special exhibition during March (189955, loan).

Tren Dam, Dr. A., Ankara, Turkey: 2 paratypes of a foraminifer from the Miocene of western Algeria (190392).

TENNESSEE, UNIVERSITY OF, Knoxville, Tenn.: 1 plant from Argentina (186888) .

Texas, University or, Austin, Tex.: 4

plants collected in Texas (188154).

Institute of Marine Science, Port Aransas, Tex.: (Through Dr. Gordon Gunter) 8 oysters from Louisiana (188395).

Texas ResearcH FounpATIoN, Renner, Tex. : 40 grasses from Texas (185377).

TrExas STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, Austin, Tex.: (Through Dr. Richard B. Eads) 8 mites, including 5 types, from Texas (188775, 190242, 190592).

Texas State Game, Fish AnD OYSTER COMMISSION, Rockport, Tex.: (Through Dr. J. L. Baughman) 11 marine pelecypods and 2 crustaceans from Port Aransas, Tex. (187269) ; 2 octopi from Rockport Harbor (190996).

TrxtTILE Looms, Inc., New York, N. Y.: A piece of Paisley printed organdy and one of Paisley printed voile (191129).

THompson, A. R. L. McGinty).

THomepson, Dr. B. G. Oregon State College.)

THompson, Dr. Grorce A., Jr., Greeley, Colo.: 20 mosquitoes from Jamaica (189881).

THompson, Dr. THomAs Gorpon, Seattle, Wash.: Approximately 600 marine shells from the Panama region (190720).

THompson, W. F., Jr., Seattle, Wash. : 2 sponges and a sea otter skull (187626).

THOMSON, Dr. JoHN W. Jr., Madison, Wis.: 4 lichens from Canada (189326).

THORNLEY, G., Lidcombe, New South Wales: Approximately 1,000 marine mollusks and 1 coral from Australia (187418, exchange).

TreRNEY, J. Q., Coral Gables, Fla.: 49 hermit crabs (190171).

(See under Thomas

(See under 
<<<117>>>
Tiner, Dr. Jack D., Champaign, IIl.: 1 copepod (188796) ; approximately 32 parasitic copepods collected by Dr. Q. H. Pickering (189426).

Tine, Peter C. (See under Dr. E. C. Vandyke.)

TinKER, Spencer, Honolulu, T. H.: 1 marine mollusk from the Hawaiian Islands (188000). (See also under University of Hawaii.)

ToLMAN, RuEL P., Washington, D. C.: 1 Specimen of dogwood grown on premises of donor and 8 Turkish boxwood engraving blocks used in early Smithsonian publications (191067).

TRAINER, F. W., Cambridge, Mass.: 41 leeches (188454).

Traus, Maj. Rozert, Washington, D. C.: 2 grasshoppers and 1 cricket, all new to the collections, from Kula Lumpur, Malaya (187804). (See also under Department of Defense, Department of the Army, Army Medical Department, Research and Graduate School.)

Travis, Dr. V. B. (See under U. S. Department of Agriculture, Alaska Insect Project.)

Treasury, U. S. DEPARTMENT oF, Wash-

ington, D. C.:

Bureau of the Mint: 1860-s half dollar, medium S; 1864-s half dollar, large S; 18938-s half dollar; 1894-s half dollar (187759); 14 United States commemorative half dollars (187760) ; 1 Oak Tree shilling of 1652, 1 United States large cent of 1798, 1 Pine Tree shilling of 1652, and 1 United States large cent of 1802 (187761) ; 1 Winchester repeating carbine, Model 1866, and 2 English double-barrel, centerfire shotguns (187976) ; $50 gold piece dated 1855 and issued by Wass. Molitor & Co. (188303) ; U. S. coinage from the Philadelphia, Denver, and San Francisco Mints for the year 1950 (81 specimens) (189917) ; 6 Booker T. Washington commemorative half dollars, 1951 (190777).

TRIEBEL, Dr. HE., Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany : 41 ostracods from Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary of France and Germany, and 8 slides containing Foraminifera from the Jurassic of Germany (190279, exchange).

TruITT, Dr. R. V., Solomons, Md.: 1 starfish from off Green Holly, Patuxent River, near Solomons (187964).

TULANE UNIVERSITY, New Orleans, La.: 5 plants collected in Colombia by Joseph Ewan (189948); 8 grasses from Colombia and Florida (189944) ; 6 plants (190518); (through Joseph Ewan) 123 plants (187390, gift-exchange).

TUTTLE, Hric, Fall River, Mass.: 106 conchostracans (187596); approximately 100 fresh-water mollusks from Arlington, Va. (188148); approximately 100 marine and fresh-water mollusks from Massachusetts (188652, exchange).

TuTTLe, Mrs. JosepH M., Short Hills, N. J.: Enlisted man’s hat band from the U. S. S. Maine (189451).

UNITED Fruit Co., Palmar Sur, Costa Rica: 92 plants collected in Costa Rica by Paul H. Allen (189484).

U. S. Atm Force GAME WARDEN. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Air Force.)

UNIVERSIDAD DE SAN Marcos, Lima, Peru: 44 plants (187822).

UNIVERSIDADE DE SAO PAULO, SAo Paulo. Brazil: (Through Prof. Rui Franco) 12 zeolites from Brazil (190482, exchange).

UNIVERSIDADE DO Rio GRANDE DO SUL, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: 1 plant collected in Brazil (189290).

UNIVERSITE DE D1IJON, Dijon, France: (Through P. Rat) 3 slabs containing topotypes of a Permian foraminifer from southern Tunisia (189000, exchange).

Unknown: 1 portable camera obscura (190899).

Ur, Mrs. Viretnta A., Shell Beach, Calif.: 10 rhodonite specimens from Highway 1, mouth of Lime Kiln Creek, Monterey County, Calif. (190796).

VAIDEN, M. G., Rosedale, Miss.: 2 bird flies and 12 lice (parasitic on birds) from Mississippi (189185) ; 5 bronzed grackles (190569).

VAN DER ScHALIE, Dr. HENRY. under University of Michigan.)

VANDYKE, Dr. E. C., San Francisco, Calif.: (Through Peter C. Ting) 21 beetles from western United States (188776).

Van Empen, Dr. F. I. (See under British Government, British Museum (Natural History), and Commonwealth Institute of Entomology.)

VAN Encet, W. A. (See under Virginia Fisheries Laboratory.)

VAN VoorTHUYSEN, Dr. J. H., Haarlem, The Netherlands: 5 specimens of the rare ostracod Phanassymetria from the Cretaceous of Holland (187702, exchange).

Varaas C., Prof. César, Cuzco, Peru: 99 plants collected in Peru (180202, 189110, 190381) ; 63 plants (187798).

VENEZUELAN ATLANTIC REFINING Co., Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. J. B. Klecker) 120 Cretaceous ammonites from Venezuela (190049).

(See 
<<<118>>>
VERRILL, A. Hyatt, Lake Worth, Fla.: 1 rare marine shell and 2 marine mollusks from Dominica, British West Indies (187635, 188347) ; 1 plant and a photograph from Florida (189666).

VINTON, KENNETH W., Balboa Heights,

C. Z.: 2 plants collected in the Gala-|

pagos Islands (187876).

VIRGINIA FISHERIES LABORATORY, Gloucester Point, Va.: A nudibranch mollusk from Virginia (189480) ; (through W. A. Van Engel) 6 anomuran crabs from Chesapeake Bay (189408) ; (through Dr. Jay D. Andrews) 15 marine mollusks from Virginia (191085).

VISHNIAC, Dr. Roman, New York, N. Y.: 53 pictorial prints for special exhibition during June (191184, loan).

VITENSKAPSSELSKAPETS Museum, Trondheim, Norway: 32 algal specimens (189819, purchase).

VLADYKOov, Vapim D., Quebec, Quebec: 4 isopods (190115).

Vocr, Dr. Martettra, Berkeley, Calif.: 10 slides, including 2 holotypes and 8 paratypes, of 2 new species of cestodes (191138).

von HuuN, Ruporr, Washington, D. C.: 1 linoleum block print, “Dahomey Log,” by donor (189049).

VoNnsEN, M., Petaluma, Calif.: A priceite specimen from Furnace Creek Wash, Death Valley, Inyo County, Calif. (190969, exchange).

Voous, Dr. K. H. (See under Zo6logisch Museum.)

WagEscHE, Dr. H. H. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Army, Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories.)

Waecner, Dr. WILHELM, Hamburg, Germany: 111 leafhoppers from Hurope (190238).

WAKEMAN, C. M., Wilmington, Calif.: 9 micro-samples from drilling in Los Angeles Harbor (188644).

Watcotr Funp, Smithsonian Institution: Pterodactyl specimen on slab from Jurassic of Germany (185495) ; 100 invertebrate fossils from the Middle Ordovician in the vicinity of Strasburg, Va. (187887) ; 107 blocks of Permian limestone and 1,000 assorted invertebrates from the Glass Mountains of west Texas, collected by Dr. G. Arthur Cooper and William T. Allen, June 1950 (187950); 500 Middle Ordovician invertebrate fossils from southwestern Virginia, collected by G. Arthur Cooper and Byron N. Cooper (188298) ; 100 slides representing 4381 specimens of labeled Pliocene Foraminifera (188708) ; 500 specimens, including fossil plants, invertebrates, and vertebrates, from the lower middle EHocene of Colorado,

Utah, and Wyoming, and the lower Triassic of Idaho and a series of Recent snails from Colorado, collected by Dr. David H. Dunkle and Franklin L. Pearce during summer 1950 (189062); 98 species of Foraminifera from the Miocene of the Vienna Basin, Austria (190386) ; 12 species, 21 specimens, of Foraminifera from the Upper Cretaceous of Hokkaido, Japan (190554); collection consisting principally of Megatherium and mastodon, remains of approximately 14 individuals representing about 8 distinct kinds of animals, from El Hatillo, near Pesé, Panama, collected by Dr. C. Lewis Gazin and Franklin L. Pearce between January 3 and April 11, 1951 (190750); approximately 200 small mammals, birds, and reptiles from a Pleistocene fissure deposit in Strait Canyon, 17 miles south of Franklin, W. Va., collected by Dr. C. Lewis Gazin in May 1949 (190861) ; 500 Ordovician fossils collected by Dr. G. Arthur Cooper April 18-25, 1951, in east Tennessee (190967) ; 12 species of Foraminifera represented by 21 specimens from the Upper Cretaceous of Hokkaido, Japan (191108) ; 11 samples of J urassic and Lower Cretaceous and 28 species of Jurassic and Cretaceous Foraminifera represented by 83 specimens, including 29 hypotypes and 4 paratypes (191109) ; 227 foraminiferal samples from the Cretaceous and Tertiary of California collected by Max B. Payne and Dr. Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr. (191147).

Watxker, Dr. Ecsert H., Washington, D. C.: 10 plants from Maryland and Virginia (190744). (See also under Conference on District Flora.)

Watxker, Prof. J. F., Ocean Springs, Miss. : 14 crustaceans (187915).

WALKER, LEw1s WAyneE, San Diego, Calif.: 5 fish bats from Isla Pescadora, Gulf of California, Mexico (1885380).

WALKER, WALLACE H., Westgate, Md.: 1 phanerogam cultivated in Maryland (188878).

Watt, Limas D., Richmond, Va.: 6 slides showing life history of a trematode (190789).

Wattey, G. S. (See under Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture, Division of Entomology.)

Watts, J. B. (See under Dr. Melville Hatch.)

WaLuis, Witt1aM W., Miami Beach, Fla.: 1 shrimp (188926).

WatsH, Mytes A. (See under Ishpushtu Coal Mines.) 
<<<119>>>
Watter, W. M., Durham, N. C.: 86 fresh-water mollusks from North Carolina: (191159).

WArpDE, Mrs. VALERIE, Belgrade Lakes, Maine: unfinished small weaving complete with loom from the Navaho and an embroidered blanket from the Hopi Indians of Arizona, collected by brother of donor (191212).

WASHINGTON, UNIVERSITY OF, Seattle,

Wash.: 662 plants from Mexico ’ (187621).

School of Fisheries: (Through Dr. A. W. C. T. Herre) 1 lichen from Alaska (187584); (through Dr. Lauren R. Donaldson and Dr. Arthur D. Welander) 144 fishes from northern Marshall Islands from 1946 to 1949 (188107, exchange).

Washington State Museum: (Through Mrs. Martha R. Flahaut) 6 birds (bulbul) (1903829).

WASHINGTON BIoLoGiIsts’ FIELD CLUB, Washington, D. C.: (Through E. P. Killip and M. K. Brady) 1 colony Bryozoa (187744).

WATERHOUSE, D. F. (See under Commonwealth Scientific & Industrial Research Organization.)

Watkins, Mrs. CHARLES H. (LURA W.), Winchester, Mass. : 278 lots and specimens of pottery and pottery shards excavated from the sites of New England potteries dating from 1687 to the 1880's; 2 lots of shards from New Jersey pottery sites ; 27 lots and specimens of glass from New England glasshouse sites; 2 fragments of English comb-ware from an 18th century house in Byfield, Mass.; 2 specimens of New England pottery; and 8 specimens of glassware made in New England (191198).

WEsER, JAy, A., Miami, Fla.: Approximately 50 land snails from Coconut Grove, Fla. (187819).

WEsER CoLLecE, Ogden, Utah: (Through Howard Knight) 6 snails from Ogden (190560) .

WeEEMS, Howarp Y., Jr., Columbus, Ohio: 16 syrphid flies from Florida (189966).

WeuBrte, Mrs. L. P., Tucson, Ariz.: (Through F. C. Hottes) 5 holotypes and 5 type specimens of plant lice, aphids, from Arizona (190005).

WELANDER, Dr. ARTHUR D. (See under University of Washington, School of Iisheries.)

WELLS, J. Rosert, La Oroya, Peru: (Through John C. Ewers) Potsherds from 2 Indian sites in Cascade and Teton Counties, Mont., collected by donor (188404).

WELLs, Dr. JoHN W. (See under National Research Council.)

A chief’s blanket and an}

WELSH, Dr. JoHN H., Cambridge, Mass. : 12 fiddler crabs (189230).

WENNER-GREN FOUNDATION FOR ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH, New York, N. Y. and AMERICAN INSTITUTE oF HUMAN PALEONTOLOGY, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. Loren C. Hiseley) 12 easts of Proconsul africanus and P. prometheus (191213).

West Vircinia UNIVERSITY, Morgantown, W. Va.: 62 plants from West Virginia (188275, exchange).

WESTERN AUSTRALIA, GOVERNMENT OF, Geological Survey of Western Australia, Perth, Australia: (Through H. A. Ellis) 1 specimen of phosphatized wood from Dandaragan, Western Australia (187829).

WESTLAKE, E. F., Jr., State College, Pa. : 3 fishes from Lake Pleasant, Erie County, French Creek tributary (187049).

WESTON ELECTRICAL INSTRUMENT CORP., Newark, N. J.: (Through John H. Miller) A collection of 23 important and historical electrical measuring instruments (191299).

WETMORE, Dr. A., Washington, D. C.: 45 birds from Virginia (187400); 1 jackdaw from Sweden (187401); 2 small mammals from Shenandoah National Park, Va. (191171). (See also under Karl P. Curtis.)

Weyer, Dr. Fritz, Hamburg, Germany ¢ 1 cotype of a mosquito collected in South America (188942).

WeyraucH, Dr. W. (See under Museo de Historia Natural “Javier Prado.”’)

WuHarton, Dr. Grorce W., Jr., Durham, N. C.: 2 mammals from Macon County, N. C. (189126).

WHEELER, Prof. G. C., Grand Forks, N. Dak.: 3 slides of biting lice from United States (185128).

Wuerry, Dr. Epnear T., Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 phanerogam from Maryland (187691).

Wuirtr, JIMMY R., Lawrence, Kans.: 4 bees, including paratypes, from California (187329); 15 bees from North America (189456).

WHITTEN, Horace L., Houma, La.: 5 crayfishes and 6 mollusks (189763). WIcKMAN, Frans E. (See under

Naturhistoriska Riksmuseets. )

Wiceins, Dr. Ira L. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, Office of Naval Research and Stanford University, Dudley Herbarium.)

Wiciry, Routanp L., Ithaca, N. Y¥.: A polychaete with copepod parasite and echinoderms (188560).

Witcox, Le Roy, Speonk, Long Island, N. ¥.: 8 land mollusks from near Homestead, Fla. (188946). 
<<<120>>>
Witey, Col. N. J., Jacksonville, Fla.:| Wor, FRANKLIN W., Karachi, Pakistan:

1896 Columbia drop-frame bicycle, ornamented with gold-plated decorations (188297).

WILKE, Forp, Seattle, Wash.: 32 bird skins, and 14 mammals from Japan (187613).

WILLIAMS, Dr. ALwyNn, Glasgow, Scotland: 600 Mesozoic and Paleozoic brachiopods from the British Isles (189115).

WILLIAMS, Dr. F. X., Mill Valley, Calif. : 3 wasps, including 2 paratypes, from California (188507).

WILLIAMS, Dr. JAmMes S. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

Wi11aMs, Dr. Louis O. (See under Hscuela Agricola Panamericana.)

WILLIAMSON, Francis S., Chevy Chase, Md.: 195 miscellaneous insects from California (191079).

Witson, Atpa H. (See under Carrie Chapman Catt (deceased).)

WILSON, BENJAMIN J. (See under John B. Wilson.)

WIitson, Ed O., Jr., Knoxville, Tenn.: 6 ants from Alabama (189069).

Witson, JoHN B. (deceased), Youngstown, N. Y.: (Through Benjamin J. Wilson) Naptha-launch engine, ca. 1900 (186740).

Witson, Mrs. Miztprep S. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. 8S. Public Health Service, Anchorage, Alaska.)

Witson, Dr. Rospert W. (See under University of Kansas, Museum of Natural History.)

Witson, T. E. (See under Aldin R. Sampson. )

WinG, Prof. Mrrizt, Raleigh, N. C.: Holotype of new species of ant from North Carolina (187681).

WINELER, ERic C., Lakeport, Calif.: 10

mosquito larvae from California (191037). Winne, Dr. WuittiamM, Schenectady,

N. Y.: 1 fern from Liberia (186475).

WirtH, Dr. Wits W., Washington, D. C.: 2,157 mosquitoes from California, Louisiana, Florida, Nebraska, and Hawaii, together with 20 moth flies from California (187683); 65 miscellaneous flies from Louisiana, California, and Virginia (187712) ; (through Dr. Alan Stone) approximately 764 marine midges from North America, Africa, and Hawaiian Islands (189732).

WISCONSIN, UNIVERSITY oF, Madison, Wis.: 2 plants collected in United States (189060, exchange) ; 18 plants from various collectors and localities (189942, exchange).

WITTHOFT, JOHN. (See under Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission.)

3 specimens of chrome ores from Hindubagh, Baluchistan, Pakistan (187951).

WoLFE, Col. L. R., A. P. O., San Franciseo, Calif.: 158 birds from Japan (187455) ; 1 squirrel from Hokkaido, Japan (188787); 30 bird skins from Japan (190085).

Woop, JOHN THORNTON, Gloucester Point, Va.: Approximately 60 mollusks from Virginia (188151).

Wooprorp, A. O., Claremont, Calif.: 12 Tertiary turrids from California (190590).

WoopHoussE, Prof. C. D., Santa Barbara, Calif.: 1 specimen of augelite from the Champion Spark Plug Mine, Mono County, Calif. (188049, exchange).

Wooprine, Dr. WENDELL P. (See under D. Dale Condit.)

Woops Hote OcEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTIoN, Woods Hole, Mass.: (Through Dr. Carlyle R. Hayes) 27 bottom samples and 13 bottom cores collected by Commander David C. Nutt on the Blue Dolphin 1950 Expedition off Labrador (189722).

Woo.tsey, HEeatHcoTe M., Kent, Conn.: 27 marine mollusks from Jamaica (190984). (See also under Pedro de Mesa.)

Wootton, Dr. Donatp M., Santa Barbara, Calif.: 55 snails from Solvang, Calif, (1883855).

Worcester, Mark D. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service.)

Worts, GEorcE F., Jr. (See under U. S. Department of the Interior, Geological Survey.)

Wricut, Leon M., Enterprise, Pla.: Approximately 250 fresh-water and marine mollusks from _ Florida (191176).

Wrieut, Dr. W. H. (See under Federal Security Agency, U. S. Public Health Service, Bethesda, Md.)

Wurtz, CHarLes B. (See under Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.)

Wvyeru, NaTHan C., Washington, D. C.: A coiled basket and a pair of decorated moccasin-leggings from the Chiricahua Apache, acquired by Gen. Orlando B. Wilcox at Ft. Whipple, Ariz., in 1884; 2 pairs of beaded moccasins and 2 unmatched beaded mocecasins obtained by donor from the reservation of the Sioux in 1905; also 8 decorated plaited bands acquired by Gen. Wilcox in Peking, China, in 1900, during the Boxer Rebellion (190923).

WyetTH, Mrs. NatHan C., Washington, D. C.: Black silk lace shawl, bobbin
<<<121>>>
made at Chantilly, France, acquired by the donor’s family during the period of 1850-60 (188868).

WyeopzInsky, Dr. Petr, Tucuman, Argentina: 9 mounted moth flies and 6 alcoholic blackflies from Argentina (187684) ; 2 blackflies from Argentina (188410, exchange); 74 stinkbugs from South America (190754) ; (through Larry W. Quate) 26 moth flies from Argentina (189299).

WYOMING, UNIVERSITY OF, Laramie, Wyo.: 84 grasses from Wyoming (187882, 190739) ; 33 plants collected in Wyoming by C. L. Porter (190083, exchange).

YALE, UNIVERSITY, Osborn Botanical Laboratory, New Haven, Conn.: (Through Dr. Alexander W. Evans) 2 lichens from New Hampshire (187583).

Peabody Museum of Natural History, New Haven, Conn.: (Through Dr. S. Dillon Ripley) 5 birds from Palau (190952, exchange).

School of Forestry, New Haven, Conn.: 16 plants collected in British Guiana and Surinam (190817).

YASUMATSU, Dr. Keizo. (See under Kyushu University, Hntomological Laboratory.)

YEATMAN, Harry C., Chapel Hill, N. C.: 6 microscope slides of copepods (187134).

YOCHELSON, Ettis, New York, N. Y.: 26 land mollusks from the Guadeloupe Mountains, Culberson County, Tex. (188949).

Yoma, EpMuNnpDo Harps, Santiago, Chile: 53 moths from Chile (191078, exchange).

Youne, Lt. Col. Wimriam M. (See under Department of Defense, Department of the Army, Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories.)

YOUNGQUIST, WALTER, Moscow, Idaho: 5 Upper Ordovician fossils from the Cassia Mountains, Idaho (190837).

ZABALA, ALVARO, Armero (Tolima), Colombia: A Raleigh bicycle ridden by the donor from Bogota to Washington by way of the Pan American Highway, the Mississippi Valley, Ontario, Canada, and New York, January to June 1950 (187321).

Zariguiey A., Dr. R., Barcelona, Spain: 51 marine invertebrates (185300, exchange).

ZERNE, Mrs. G. B., Balboa, C. Z.: 17 marine mollusks from Panama Bay, Panama (189348).

ZETEK, JAMES, Balboa, C. Z.: 604 land and fresh-water mollusks from Panama and Heuador (178928).

ZIEGLER, ROBERT L., Washington, D. C.: 2 orioles from Luzon (188933).

ZIESENHENNE, RuDOoLF, Santa Barbara, Calif.: 1 Begonia of Mexican origin (187692) ; 2 cultivated Begonia specimens (187826). i

ZIMMERMAN, Dr. BE. C., London, England: 2 beetles from South Pacific (190886).

ZooLogiscH Museum, Amsterdam, Netherlands: (Through Dr. K. H. Voous) 1 woodpecker and 1 wren-babbler from Sumatra (189311, exchange) ; 2 Temminck’s babblers from the Hast Indies (190015, exchange) ; (through Dr. J. J. Hoedeman) 2 lots of gorgonians (189489).

ZOOLOGISCHES MUSEUM, Berlin, Germany: (Through Dr. 8. Jaeckel) 5 fresh-water mollusks from aquaria in Berlin (189055).

ZOOLOGISCHES MUSEUM DER HUMBOLDTUNIVERSITAT, Berlin, Germany: A bird, genus and species new to the collections (189542, exchange). 
<<<122>>>
Publications

by Members of the Staff of the United States National Museum July 1950 through June 1951

ABBOTT, R. Tucker. The molluscan fauna of the Cocas-Keeling Islands, Indian Ocean. Bull. Raffles Museum, Singapore, vol. 22, pp. 68-98, 2 figs., 1950.

——. The venomous cone shells. The Science Counselor, Duquesne Univ., vol. 13, pp. 125-126, 1538, 1950.

New stenothyrid gastropods from

the Philippines (Rissoidae). Journ.

Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp.

14-16, figs. 1-7, 1951.

——. The use of infra-subspecific names. Nautilus, vol. 64, pp. 103104, 1951.

In search of the golden cowrie. Natural History, vol. 60, pp. 104-110, 144, 9 illustr., 1951. New York.

——. New deep-water Olivellas from Florida, with notes on the O. jaspideanivea complex. Nautilus, vol. 64, pp. 110-116, pl. 7, figs. 1-5, 1951.

——. Operation snailfolk. Natural History, vol. 60, pp. 280—285, 6 illustr., 1951. New York.

(See also under H. A. Rehder.)

BartscH, Paut. A new terrestrial mollusk from Mexico. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 350-352, figs. 1, 2, 1950.

——. More new urocoptid mollusks from Mexico. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 146-147, pp. 1-3, April 1951.

BAssLeR, R. S. New genera of American Middle Ordovician “Cystoidea.” Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 273-277, 1950.

BAYER, FREDERICK M._ A new species of the gorgonacean genus Ainigmaptilon Dean (Coelenterata: Octocorallia). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 295-298, figs. 1-2, 1950.

—. Two new primnoid corals of the subfamily Calyptrophorinae (Coelenterata: Octocorallia). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 40-43, figs. 1-2, 1951.

—. A new Caribbean coral of the genus Chrysogorgia. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 101, pp. 269-278, figs. 56-57, pl. 9, 1951.

—. A revision of the nomenclature of the Gorgoniidae (Coelenterata: Octocorallia), with an illustrated key to the genera. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 91-102, figs. 1-3, 1951.

BLACKWELDER, R. H. The Casey Room: Memorial to a coleopterist. The Coleopterists’ Bull., vol. 4, pp. 65-80, illustr., 1950.

Brown, R. W. Cretaceous fish egg capsule from Kansas. Journ. Paleont., vol. 24, pp. 594-600, 1950.

CARTWRIGHT, O. L. New synonymy in the Aphodiini of the United States. Coleopterists’ Bull., vol. 5, pp. 29-30, 1951.

CuHace, Fenner A., Jr., The grass shrimps of the genus Hippolyte from the west coast of North America. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 35-39, fig. 1, 1951.

The oceanic crabs of the genera Planes and Pachygrapsus. Proe. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 101, pp. 65-103, figs. 1-8, 1951.

CuHaAsr, AGNES. Manual of grasses of the United States, by A. S. Hitchcock . U. S. Dept. Agr.

_Misc. Publ. No. 200, 1,051 pp., 1951.

CLARK, AUsTIN H. A monograph of the existing crinoids. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 82, vol. 1: The comatulids. Part 4c: Superfamily Tropiometrida (the families Thalassometridae and Charitometridae), 1,383 pp., 32 pls., 1950.

—, Foreword, in “The butterflies of Georgia,” by Lucien Harris, Jr. Georgia Society of Naturalists Bull. No. 5, Foreword, 1950.

——. The feather-stars, sea-urchins, and sea-stars of the United States Navy Antarctic Expedition 1947-48. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 335-337, 1950.

CLARK, Austin H. _ 

Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 53,

p. 114, 1951.

Review of “A field guide to the butterflies of North America east of the Great Plains,” by Alexander B. Klots. Scientific Monthly, vol. 72, p. 408, 1951.

CocHRAN, Doris M. A new subspecies of toad from Santa Catharina. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 288-239, 1950.

Coorrer, G. A. New brachiopods from the Lower Cambrian of Virginia. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 4-8, 1951.

— and Muir-Woop, Heten M. Brachiopod homonyms. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 195-196, 1951.

(See also under Muir-Wood, Helen M.)

DEIGNAN, H. G. A tentative revision of the Australian races of the greyecrowned babbler, Pomatostomus temporalis (Vigors and Horsfield), with descriptions of two new subspecies. Emu, vol. 50, pp. 17-21, 1950.

. Two new races of the spotted

nightjar, Hurostopodus guttatus (Vig-

ors and Horsfield). Emu, vol. 50, pp.

21-28, 1950.

Five new races of birds from southeastern Asia. Zoological, vol. 35, pp. 127-128, 1950.

——. Review of “An annotated checklist of the birds of Malaya,” C. A. Gibson-Hill. Auk, vol. 67, p. 524, 1950.

Bird notes from the banks of Dare County, N. C. The Chat, vol. 15., p. 14, 1951.

—. A substitute name for a bulbul, Pycnonotus, of northwestern India. Auk, vol. 68, p. 110, 1951.

A new race of the hawk-owl,

Ninog scutulata, from the Philippines.

Proe. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 64,

pp. 41-42, 1951.

New passerine birds from the

Indo-Chinese subregion. Postilla

. Soe. Vert. Paleont. News Bull., No. 31, pp. 12-18, 1951.

Evans, CtLirrorp, Jr., and Mercerrs, Berty J. Preliminary results of archeological investigations at the mouth of the Amazon. Amer. Antiquity, vol. 16, pp. 1-9, 1950.

FIELD, WILLIAM D. Moths of the genus Paramulona Hampson: Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 101, pp. 489—496, 2 figs., 1951.

FISHER, WALTER K. The sipunculid genus Phascolosoma. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 12, vol. 3, pp. 547-552, 1950.

Two new subgenera and a new species of Siphonosoma (Sipunculoidea). Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 12, vol. 3, pp. 805-808, pl. 10, 1950.

FosHac, W. KF. Exploring the world of gems. Nat Geogr. Mag. vol. 98, pp. 770-810, illustr., 1950.

The aqueous emanation from Paricutin volcano. Amer. Mineral., vol. 35, pp. 748-755, 1950.

— and Switzer, Grorere. The diamond industry in 1949. Jewelers Circular-Keystone, vol. 121, 5 pp., 1950.

FRIEDMANN, HERBERT. The breeding habits of the weaverbirds, a study in the biology of behavior patterns. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Institution, 1949, pp. 293-316, 1950.

Review of ‘Bird life,” by EH. A.

Armstrong. Atlantic Naturalist, vol.

5, p. 2383, 1950.

The birds of North and Middle

America. Families Cathartidae, Ac-

cipitridae, Pandionidae, Falconidae.

U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 50, pt. 11, 793

pp., 51 figs., 1950.

Dedication. Journ. Washington Aead. Sci. . Soe. Vert. Pale-
<<<123>>>
ont. News Bull., No. 30, pp. 12-13, | Lorsiicn, A. R., Jr.

1950; No. 32, p. 11, 1951.

— and Co.iins, R. Ler. Remains of land mammals from the Miocene of the Chesapeake Bay region. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 116, No. 2, pp. 1-21, figs. 1-7, 1950.

HaAnpLey, CHARLES O., Jr. The brant of Prince Patrick Island, Northwest Territories. Wilson Bull., vol. 62, pp. 128-132, 1950.

——, Game mammals. Jn “A fish and wildlife survey of Guatemala.” Special scientific report, Wildlife, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, No. 3, pp. 128-132, illustr., 1950.

— and Hanpiey, CuHartes O., Sr. Mammals. Jn “The James River Basin: Past, present and future.” James River Project Committee, Virginia Academy of Sci., pp. 285-276, 2 pls., 1950.

Henperson, H. P. Restudy of the Coolac, New South Wales, Australia, meteorite. Pop. Astron., vol. 59, pp. 205-209, 1950.

—— and Perry, 8. H. A reinvestigation of the Weaver Mountains, Arizona, meteorite. Pop. Astron., vol. 59, pp. 262-266, 1951.

Inte, PAuL L. A new genus and species of notodelphyoid copepod from Japan. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 30-34, fig. 1, 1951.

—. Review of “The invertebrates: Platyhelminthes and MRhychocoela. The Acoelomate Bilateria,” by Libbie Henrietta Hyman. Scientific Monthly, vol. 72, pp. 336-837, 1951.

KAINEN, JAcosp. The halftone screen. 20 pp., illustr., 1950. Chicago.

Kiiiir, E. P. Urticaceae. In “Botani-

eal exploration in Venezuela—I,” by J. A. Steyermark. TFieldiana: Botany, vol. 28, p. 216, 1951.

LACHNER, H. A. The comparative food habits of the cyprinid fishes Nocomis biguttatus and Nocomis micropogon in western New York. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci. vol. 40, pp. 229-236, 1950.

——. Food, growth and habits of fingerling northern smallmouth bass, Micropterus d. dolomieu Lacepéde, in trout waters of western New York. Journ. Wildlife Management, vol. 14, pp. 50-56, 1950.

LronarpD, HMrery C. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, I. Contr. U. 8. Nat. Herb., vol. 31, pt. 1, pp. 1-177, figs. 1—40, 1951.

LLANo, GroraE A. A monograph of the lichen family Umbilicariaceae in the Western Hemisphere. Navexos P831, Office of Naval Research, Dept. of the Navy, 281 pp., 22 figs., 27 pls., 1950.

The Cushman collection of Foraminifera. Journ. Paleont., vol. 25, p. 227, 1951.

and Tappan, H. Descriptions of Foraminifera. Jn “Stratigraphic notes on the Maness (Comanche Cretaeceous) shale,” by F. EH. Lozo. Southern Methodist University Fondren Sci. Ser., pp. 82-87, pl. 2, 1951.

Magee, J. P. Lead-uranium ratio and possible geologic age of allanite from Greenwich, Massachusetts. Amer. Mineral., vol. 35, pp. 845-852, 1950.

McCuure, F. A. Bambuseae. In ‘“Contributions to the flora of Venezuela,” by J. A. Steyermark, Fieldiana, vol. 28, pp. 31-83, 1951.

Moors, J. Percy, and Marvin, C, Mryer. Leeches (Hirudinea) from Alaskan and adjacent waters. Wasmann Journ. Biol., vol. 9, pp. 11-77, pls. 1— 11, 1951.

Morrison, JOSEPH P. EH. Two new western Atlantic species of pulmonate mollusks of the genus Detracia and two old ones (family WHllobiidae). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 17-20, 1951.

American HEllobiidae—an anno-

tated list. Amer. Malacological Un-

ion Rep., 1950, pp. 8-10, 1951.

The zoogeography of the cave

snails of eastern North America.

 Nat. Speleological

Soe. News, p. 3, 1951.

Shell material. In “Archeology of the Bynum Mounds, Mississippi, Natchez Trace Parkway,” by John L. Cotter and John M. Corbett. Archeol. Research Ser. No. 1, Nat. Park Serv., U. S. Dept. Interior, p. 50, 1951.

Morton, C. V. Notes on the ferns of the eastern United States. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 40, pp. 218-225, pp. 241-252, 1950.

Willard Nelson Clute. Amer.

Fern Journ., vol. 41, pp. 1-4, 1951.

Pteridophyta. Jn “Contributions to the flora of Venezuela,” by J. A. Steyermark. Fieldiana, vol. 28, pp. 7-16, 1951.

——. and Proctor, GEorGcE R. A new Jamaican species of Hemitelia. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 51, pp. 48-51, 1951.

Murr-Woop, H. M., and Cooprrr, G. A. A new species of the Jurassic brachiopod genus Septirhynchia. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 116, No. 6, pp. 1-6, pls. 1-2, 1951.

NEWMAN, MarsHatt T. The blond Mandan: A critical review of an old problem. Southwestern Journ. Anthrop., vol. 6, pp. 255-272, 1950.
<<<124>>>
NEWMAN, MarsHatt T. An historical|——. Review of “Encyclopedia of wa-

résumé of the concept of differences

in Indian types. II. Interpreta-

tion: Amer. Anthrop., vol. 53, pp. 26—

36, 1951.

The Indian skeletal material

from the Nordyke village site and

the Elk Garden village site and burial eave, Virginia. Quarterly Bull.

Archeol. Soe. Virginia, vol. 5, No. 3,

4 pp., 1951.

Skeletal material. In “Archeology of the Bynum Mounds, Mississippi,” by J. L. Cotter and J. M. Corbett. Nat. Park Serv. Archeol. Res. Ser., No. 1, Appendix, pp. 43-47, 65-66, pls. 19-20, 1951.

——. The sequence of Indian physical types in South America. In “The yhysical anthropology of the American Indian,” W. S. Laughlin, editor. The Viking Fund, pp. 69-97, 1951.

(See also under T. Dale Stewart.)

Nico, D. A new species of glycymerid from the Philippines. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 20-21, 3 figs., 1951.

—. Recent species of the veneroid pelecypod Arctica. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, 3, pp. 102-106, 4 figs., 1951.

—. Recent species of the cyrenoid pelecypod Glossus. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 142-146, 1951.

——. Recent species of the prionodont pelecypod Cucullaea. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 338-343, 9 figs., 1950.

OLIvER, SMITH HEMPsSTONE. Stock car speeds. Atlantic Monthly, vol. 186, pp. 93-94, 1950.

The Simplex. Atlantic Monthly,

vol. 186, pp. 93-95, 1950.

The car that made good ina day. Road and Track, vol. 2, No. 5, pp. 1213, 28-80, 1950.

PETERSON, MENDEL L. The Army Medal

—_—— °

ter life.” Copeia, No. 2, p. 162, 1950. . Notes on the blennioid fish genera Runula (subfamily Petroscirtinae) and Tripterygion and Helcogramma (family Clinidae). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci. vol. 40, pp. 266-268, 1950.

Three new species of fishes of the genus Cirrhitus (family Cirrhitidae) from the Indo-Pacific. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. 100, pp. 547-552, pl. 13, 1950.

Review of thirteen genera of

South American fishes in the subfami-

lies Cynodontinae, Hepsetinae, and

Characinae, with the description of

anew Cyrtocharaz. In “Studies hon-

oring Trevor Kincaid.” Univ. Wash-

ington Press, pp. 42-73, 1950.

Results of a preliminary survey of group endings in zoological classifications above the category of genus. Science, vol. 118, pp. 655-657, 1951.

——. Chaetodon tinkeri, a new species of butterflyfish (Chaetodontidae) from the Hawaiian Islands. Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 101, pp. 485-488, fig. 94, pl. 15, 1951.

(See also under A. D. Welander.)

SETZER, HENRY W. Albinism in bats. Journ. Mammal, vol. 31, p. 350, 1950.

——. Two new shrews of the genus Cryptotis from Panama. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 299-300, 1950.

. Animals bones. Jn “Archeology of the Bynum Mounds, Mississippi,” by John L. Cotter and John M. Corbett. Archeol. Research Ser., Nat. Park Service, No. 1, p. 49, 1951.

SETZLER, FRANK M. Activities of the department of anthropology in 1950. Comisién de Historia, Instituto Panamericano de Geografia e Historia, B. B. A. A., vol. 18, pt. 1, pp. 73-74, 1951. Mexico, D. F.

SmirH, A. C Studies of Pacific Island plants, VII. Further notes on Fijian

of Honor. Numismatist, vol. 63, pp. flowering plants. Journ. Arnold Arb., 557-565, 1950. vol. 31, pp. 288-319, 1950.

. U. §S. Army Epaulettes 1814-]——. The Seventh International Bo1872. Military Collector and Histanical Congress. Science, vol. 112,

torian, vol. 3, pp. 1-14, 1951.

The Marine Corps Brevet Medal. Numismatist, vol. 64, pp. 594-598, 1951.

REHDER, HaraAtp A., and Asso, R. Tucker. ‘Two new recent cone shells from the western Atlantic (Conidae). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 22-24, figs. 1-7, 1951.

ScHuvuttz, L. P. Correction for “A revision of six subfamilies of atherire fishes with descriptions of new genera and species.” Copeia, No. 2, p. 150, 1950.

No. 2911, pp. 448-445, 1950.

——. Studies of Pacific Island plants, VIII. The Fijian species of Lauraceae. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 32, pp. 27-28, 1951.

Dr. H. A. Gleason retires from

the New York Botanical Garden.

Gard. Journ. New York Bot. Garden,

vol. 1, pp. 53, 56, 64, 1951.

Review of “The Piperaceae of

northern South America,” by W. Tre-

lease and T. G. Yuncker. Sci. Monthly,

vol. 72, pp. 337-838, 1951.
<<<125>>>
SmitH, LyMAN B. Bromeliaceas notiveis do herb&rio do Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro. Arq. Jard. Bot. Rio Janeiro, vol. 10, pp. 141-148, pls. 1, 2, 1950.

——. Notas sdbre Bromeliaiceas de Santa Catarina. Anais Bot. Herb: “Barbosa Rodrigues,” vol. 2, No. 2, pp. 13-15, 2 pls., 1950.

——. Chaves para a Bromelidceas de Santa Catarina. Anais Bot. Herb. “Barbosa Rodrigues”, vol. 2, No. 2, pp. 17-33, 1950.

——. A new Puya from Bolivia. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 216-217, fig. 1, 1950.

— —, Bromeliaceas novas ou interessantes do Brasil. Arg. Bot. Estado Sao Paulo, vol. 2, fase. 5, pp. 118-120, pls. 48-51, 1950.

A new Tillandsia from Hon-

duras. Ceiba, vol. 1, pp. 229-231,

1 fig., 1951.

Bromeliaceae. In Steyermark, “Botanical Exploration in Venezuela—I.” Hieldiana — Botany, vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 135-151, figs. 18-23, 1951.

——. Studies in the Bromeliaceae, XVI. Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb., vol. 29, pt. 10, pp. 429-520, figs. 37-76, 1951.

SmirH, Lyman B., and SCHUBERT, BERNice. Studies in the Begoniaceae, III. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 241-245, fig. 1, 1950.

Stewart, T. Date. Report on skeleton from the Butte Creek cave, John Day River region, Oregon. In ‘“Archaeological research in Oregon,” by L. S. Cressman. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc., vol. 94, Appendix, pp. 385-587, 1950.

-——. Deformity, trephining and mutilation in South American Indian skeletalremains. Jn “Handbook of South American Indians.” Bur. Amer. Hthnol. Bull. 43, vol. 6, pp. 48-48, 1950.

Pathological changes in South American Indian skeletal remains. In “Handbook of South American Indians,” Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 148, vol. 6, pp. 49-52, 1950.

——. Historical resumé of the concept of differences in Indian types: I. Variability. Amer. Anthrop., new ser., vol. 53, pp. 19-26, 1951.

——. Antiquity of man in America demonstrated by the fluorine test. Science, vol. 113, No. 2936, pp. 391392, 1951.

——. What the bones tell. Law Enforcement Bull., vol. 20, No. 2, pp. 2-5, 1951. 

——. Middle and South America: Physical anthropology. Handbook of Latin American Studies, No. 13, pp.

28-33 (1947), 1951. Harvard Univ.

Press.

The problem of the earliest

claimed representatives of Homo sap-

iens. Cold Spring Harbor Symposia on Quantitative Biology (‘Origin and evolution of man’), vol. 15, pp. 97~

106, 1951.

Scientific Responsibility. Amer.

Journ. Phys. Anthrop., new ser., vol. 9,

No. 1, pp. 1-5, 1951.

and NEwMAN, MarsHaLt T. Anthropometry of South American Indian skeletal remains. In “Handbook of South American Indians,” Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 148, vol. 6, pp. 19-42, 1950.

SWALLEN, JASON R. Some introduced forage grasses of the genus Andropogon and related species. Contr. Texas Res. Found., vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 15-19, 1950.

——. The status of crested wheatgrass. Journ. Agron., vol. 42, p. 571, 1950. Gramineae. In “Contributions to the flora of Venezuela,” by J. A. Steyermark. Fieldiana-Botany, vol.

28, No. 1, pp. 17-30, 34-36, 1951.

SWITZER, GEORGE; Pecora, W. T.; BarBoss, A. L.; and Myers, A. T. Structure and mineralogy of the Golconda pegmatite, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Amer. Mineral., vol. 35, pp. 889-901, 1950.

(See also under W. F. Foshag.)

WALKER, EGBert H., and TAWADA, SHINgun. A new species of Portulaca from Okinawa. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 188-189, fig. 1, 1951.

WATKINS, C. Matcotm. First trading post. Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, sect. 5, p. 1, September 17, 1950. Norfolk, Va.

——. The Greenwood gift to the Smith-

Sonian Institution. The Chronicle of

the Harly American Industries Assn.,

vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 1-3, 1951.

American pianos of the Federal period in the United States Natienal Museum. Antiques, vol. 59, pp. 58-61, illustr., 1951.

WEDEL, WaLpo R. Notes on PlainsSouthwestern contacts in the light of archeology. In “For the Dean: Essays in Anthropology in Honor of Byron Cummings,” pp. 99-116, 1950. Santa Fe, N. Mex.

WEDEL, WALDO R. Missouri River basin survey 1948 season. Proc. Sixth Plains Archeol. Conf. Anthrop. Papers, No. 11, Dept. of Anthrop., pp. 3-8, 1950.

——. Climate and culture: Some questions. Proc. Sixth Plains Archeol. 
<<<126>>>
Conf. Anthrop. Papers, No. 11, Dept. Anthrop., Univ. of Utah, pp. 85-87, 1950.

WEDEL, WALDO R. Notes on aboriginal pottery from Montana. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 130-138, 1951.

WELANDER, A. D., and ScHULTz, L. P. Chromis atripectoralis a new damselfish from the tropical Pacific, closely related to C. caeruleus, family Pomaeentridae. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 107-110, fig. 1, 1951.

WETMORE, ALEXANDER. Tenth International Ornithological Congress. Science, vol. 112, No. 2905, pp. 261-262, 1950.

——, The list of birds of the Shenan-

doah National Park (third revision).

Shenandoah Natural History Assoc.

Bull. No. 1, 26 pp. 1950.

Additional forms of birds from

the Republics of Panama and Colom-

bia. Proce. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol.

63, pp. 171-174, 1950.

The identity of the American yul-

ture described as Cathartes burrovi-

anus by Cassin. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 415-417, 1950. The original description of the

fossil bird Cryptornis antiquus. Condor, vol. 538, p. 158, 1951. WILson, CHARLES BrancH. Copepods

gathered by the United States fisheries steamer Albatross from 1887 to 1909, chiefly in the Pacific Ocean. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 100, vol. 14, pt. 4, pp. 141-441, pls. 2-36, 1950.

WILSON, MiI~pRED STRATTON. A new genus proposed for Lichomolgus major Williams (Copepoda: Cyclopoida). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 40, pp. 298-299, 1950.

A new subgenus of Diaptomus (Copepoda: Calanoida), including an Asiatie species and a new species from Alaska. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 41, pp. 168-179, figs. 1-29, 1951.

—— and Licut, 8. F. Description of a new species of diaptomid copepod from Oregon. Trans. Amer. Micros. Soc., vol. 70, pp. 25-80, figs. 1-11, 1951. 
<<<127>>>
Publications Issued by the United States National Museum Fiscal Year 1950-51

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum for the year ended June 30, 1950. S8vo, pp. i-iii, 1-141. January 10, 1951.

Bulletin 50, part 11. The birds of North and Middle America. Families Cathartidae, Accipitridae, Pandionidae, Faleonidae. By Herbert Friedmann. 8yvo, pp. i—xiii, 1-793, 51 figs. September 29, 1950.

Bulletin 82. A monograph of the existing crinoids, volume 1, The comatulids. Part 4c.—Superfamily Tropiometrida (the families Thalassometridae and Charitometridae). By Austin Hobart Clark. 4°, pp. i—vii, 1,388, 32 pls. August 16, 1950.

Bulletin 199. An annotated checklist and key to the reptiles of Mexico exclusive of the snakes. By Hobart M. Smith and Edward H. Taylor. 8vo, pp. i-v, 1-258. October 16, 1950.

From BULLETIN 100

Volume 14, part 4. Copepods gathered by the United States fisheries steamer Albatross from 1887 to 1909, chiefly in the Pacific Ocean. By Charles Branch Wilson. S8vo, pp. i-ix, 141-441, pls. 2-86. October 17, 1950.

Part 10. Studies in the Bromeliaceae, XVI. By Lyman B. Smith. §8vo, pp. i-vili, 429-520, figs. 37-76. June 20, 1951.

T’rom VOLUME 31, CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM

Part1. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, I. By Emery C. Leonard. 8vo, pp. i-vi, 1-117, figs. 1-40. June 8, 1951.

FroM VOLUME 98 OF THE PROCEEDINGS

Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i—xi, pp. 523-553. April 17, 1951.

From VOLUME 100 or THE PROCEEDINGS

No. 3269. Some new gastropods of the family Clausiliidae from the Philippine Islands and Siam. By F. J. Loosjes. Pp. 539-545, figs. 51-53. November 13, 1950.
<<<128>>>
3270. Three new species of fishes of the genus Cirrhitus (family Cirrhitidae) from the Indo-Pacific. By Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 547-552, pl. 13. July 25, 1950.

FRomM VOLUME 101 oF THE PROCEEDINGS

3271. <A revision of the beetles of the genus Myochrous. By Doris Holmes Blake. Pp. 1-64, pls. 1-8. December 27, 1950.

3272. The oceanic crabs of the genera Planes and Pachygrapsus. By Fenner A. Chace, Jr. Pp. 65-103, figs. 1-8. January 80, 1951.

3273. New marine isopods, chiefly from northern California, with notes on related forms. By Robert J. Menzies. Pp. 105-156, figs. 9-33. February 13, 1951.

3274. The helminth parasites of birds, I11: Dicrocoeliid trematodes from North American birds. By J. Fred Denton and Elon HE. Byrd. Pp. 157-202, figs. 834-40. March 6, 1951.

. 3275. The mites of the subfamily Haemogamasinae (Acari: Laelaptidae).

By Hugh L. Keegan. Pp. 203-268, figs. 41-55. February 2, 1951.

. 8276. A new Caribbean coral of the genus Chrysogorgia. By Frederick M.

Bayer. Pp. 269-273, figs. 56, 57, pl. 9. February 18, 1951.

. 8277. Revision of the North American grasshoppers of the Conalcaea com-

plex. By Ashley B. Gurney. Pp. 275-304, figs. 58-65, pls. 10, 11. February 4, aS |

. 8278. Fleas from the Upper Sonoran zone near Albuquerque, N. Mex. By

Lelia Ann Williams and C. Clayton Hoff. Pp. 305-318, fig. 66. January 22, 1951.

. 8279. Some digenetic trematodes, including eight new species, from marine

fishes of La Jolla, Calif. By Harold W. Manter and Harley J. Van Cleave. Pp. 315-340, pls. 12, 18. March 28, 1951.

. 8280. Parasitic Crustacea from Bimini, Bahamas. By A. 8. Pearse. Pp.

341-372, figs. 67-77. February 2, 1951.

. 8281. New and little-known bees of the family Andrenidae from California.

By P. H. Timberlake. Pp. 373-414. April 23, 1951. 3282. The actinian fauna of the Gulf of California. By Oskar Carlgren. Pp. 415-449, figs. 78-84, pl. 14. May 17, 1951.

. 0283. Notes on chrysomelid beetles of the subfamily Chlamisinae, with

descriptions of new species. By F. Monrés. Pp. 451-468, figs. 85-90. June 5, 1951.

. 3284. Notes on a herpetological collection from Oaxaca and other localities

in Mexico. By Frederick A. Shannon. Pp. 465-484, figs. 91-93. May 17, 1951.

. 8285. Chaetodon tinkeri, a new species of butterflyfish (Chaetodontidae)

from the Hawaiian Islands. By Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 485-488, fig. 94, pl. 15. June 5, 1951.

. 8286. Moths of the genus Paramulona Hampson. By William D. Field. Pp.

489-496, figs. 95-96. May 17, 1951.
<<<129>>>

<<<130>>>
9088 01003 7000 | | 
<<<131>>>
~ ~ . = — wie z _—— a x >. 0. ne peves ttt ~

» ~“ = owen nn

. ~ + ‘ — oe 7
<<<132>>>
ra i i j 5 Witicteacisal
<<<133>>>

<<<134>>>

<<<135>>>
