<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>



<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>

The United States
National Museum
Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1956

<<<Page: 5>>>

Untrep States Nationat Museum, Unover Direction oF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D. C., August 15, 1956.
Sim: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1956.
Very respectfully, Remineton KEtxoee, Director, U.S. National Museum. Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 6>>>

June 30, 1956 Scientific Staff
Director: Remington Kellogg Assistant Director: Frank A. Taylor Registrar: Helena M. Weiss
Office of Exhibits: Frank A. Taylor, Chief John BE. Anglim, chief exhibits specialist; William L. Brown, chief zoological exhibits specialist ; Benjamin Lawless, R. O. Hower, exhibits specialists Museum of History and Technology
Frank A. Taylor, in charge of planning ; John C. Hwers, planning officer
Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator A. J. Andrews, exhibits specialist
ARCHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, curator | ErHNoLocy: H. W. Krieger, curator Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator C. M. Watkins, associate curator PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY: TT. Dale R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator Stewart, curator G. Carroll Lindsay, assistant curator M. T. Newman, associate curator
Department of Zoology: Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator
MAMMALS: MarIN& INVERTEBRATES: Fenner A. D. H. Johnson, acting curator Chace, Jr., curator H. W. Setzer, associate curator Frederick M. Bayer, associate cuCharles O. Handley, Jr., associate rator curator T. HE. Bowman, associate curator Birps: Herbert Friedmann, curator Charles HE. Cutress, Jr., associate cuH. G. Deignan, associate curator rator REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Mo.tiusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator Doris M. Cochran, associate curator Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate cuFisures: Leonard P. Schultz, curator rator
H. A. Lachner, associate curator Insects: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator O. L. Cartwright, associate curator W. D. Field, associate curator Grace BD. Glance, associate curator Sophy Parfin, junior entomologist
Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator
PHANEROGAMS: A. C. Smith, curator Grasses: Jason R. Swallen, curator Lyman B. Smith, associate curator Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator
B. OC. Leonard, associate curator CryprogaMs: C. V. Morton, acting cuE. H. Walker, associate curator rator Velva E. Rudd, associate curator Paul 8S. Conger, associate curator
Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator boar

<<<Page: 7>>>

Department of Geology: Gustav A. Cooper*, head curator J. H. Benn, museum geologist
BOTANY: Gustav A. Cooper, curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator David Nicol, associate curator
MINERALOGY AND PETROLOGY: G. S. Switzer, associate curator E. P. Henderson, associate curator VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY : C. L. Gazin, curator D. H. Dunkle, associate curator F. L. Pearce, exhibits specialist
Department of Engineering and Industries: Robert P. Multhauf, acting head curator
CRAFTS AND INDUSTRIES: W. N. Watkins, curator; in charge of Section of Wood Technology Edward C. Kendall, associate curator, Sections of Manufactures and Agricultural Industries
ENGINEERING: R. P. Multhauf, curator; in charge of Sections of Civil and Mechanical Engineering, and Physical Sciences
and Measurements, and Tools
K. M. Perry, associate curator, Section of Marine Transportation Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator,
S. H. Oliver, associate curator, SecSection of Textiles
tions of Land Transportation and| GRAPHIC ARTs: Horology J. Kainen, curator
W. J. King, associate curator, Section A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate cuof Electricity rator, Section of Photography MEDICINE AND PusBLIc HEALTH: George B. Griffenhagen, associate curator
Department of History: Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator
CiviL HISTORY:
MILITARY AND NAVAL History: Margaret Brown Klapthor, associ-
Mendel L. Peterson, curator J. Russell Sirlouis, assistant curator ate curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., junior his| PHILATELY: torian Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate cuNUMISMATICS : rator Mendel L. Peterson, acting curator
*Acting head curator to July 16, 1956. IV

<<<Page: 8>>>

Honorary Scientific Staff
Smithsonian fellows, collaborators, associates, custodians of collections, and honorary curators
Anthropology Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Anthro-| W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology pology W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology Neil M. Judd, Anthropology Thomas W. McKern, Physical AnthroBetty J. Meggers, Archeology pology Zoology Paul Bartsch, Mollusks J. Perey Moore, Marine Invertebrates A. G. Béving, Zoology C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects L. L. Buchanan, Coleoptera Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology M. A. Carriker, Insects Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, Marine R. S. Clark, Zoology Invertebrates Robert A. Cushman, Hymenoptera C. R. Shoemaker, Zoology D. C. Graham, Biology R. EH. Snodgrass, Insects Charles T. Greene, Diptera Alexander Wetmore, Birds A. Brazier Howell, Mammals Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod W. L. Jellison, Insects Crustacea W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera Botany Agnes Chase, Grasses F. A. McClure, Grasses H.. P. Killip, Phanerogams John A. Stevenson, Fungi Geology R. S. Bassler, Paleontology Helen N. Loeblich, Invertebrate PaleonRoland W. Brown, Paleobotany tology Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon-| 8. H. Perry, Mineralogy tology J. B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate PaleonJ. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Paletology ontology W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy
Engineering and Industries F, L. Lewton, Crafts and Industries
History Paul A. Straub, Numismatics

<<<Page: 9>>>

or Pay?
swag
5 a thes ofa fee a
BLY i in gt, uo lag i
Tatoos
‘ ce a 7 Li ie ¥ rae a L ‘ at Eye S 2 BR Bi e nf \ TAX nae ei <—F ~rS SUL 2 PS. 7 't i “i Atif A ‘ © x 5 : Pe Sam? I s! P=? a SEfhe srelmes | ‘ : i} RSP SY f ¥ oe: 4 ele 4k a *
we Ia ky ane net ‘ 3 Ee Ps ; tain . stk Poyrer i Mere DS teytiyt : 5 ; eit bs ‘ ‘ vei fy i : t yxJ
Tyee nu. ‘ H aa beh ME Ss'f Ue! i iia ese
aio : f°
o* : ie 1 ¥
’ ‘} é y te ty ee ie | : TT easel Aseria rrr yi < ph i a 3 i pw C8! PS TER tae eR IO eo a4 j
weet i te
COAG, f OSes , Maerrore| iethere ht ai id & ' * ' ‘ é 3 tke. O ' r ~y ‘ .
i . aes ec. antingasive A dis 38 A uy
x x i; Sag al =a) ; “Fh ny a i bal j be) i Le

<<<Page: 10>>>

Annual Report of
the Director
United States National Museum

<<<Page: 11>>>



<<<Page: 12>>>

Contents
INTRODUCTIONS. cit Lith canPRePRne eRe Rc my SRG RS i Uetnieme Ny 1) aac lky wake Bs 1 EEREEBETS pee serie sy deh Ube eM RSME pe oy Beata ck Lali tual t ict G Vian MOR AU 2 ACCESSIONS ... PNR ees oat thl ee temas fee me aaloe A Leal eg en HE RT a 9 CARE OF Connon. SR Nees Rt a) Ree et esa ei et Mea ag a 19 LIN WES TIGATEON PANIDECE SEAR CHe su ci lun rats ue lyse cena veda Nie a) eye cua e 25 ANMEDEG POLO SY) hah srl, sp tae Rcd Mee aot eee al esol tos eis tune Catclee 25 OOO RY Pe ar akc BGT eh CAB A peat Ohad eA saga Weal ela Ti 29 SO LESAN e PRUE BU MRM baile ic Melia! Roe iy” cow ate lis Ue ail aid met ated ed i 35 Geology... . AE Pst site eee ell eNCRED, Bay eer tiedertires Wesel trey Ee 38 Engineering and Tedntes: Ny eh Ne llc one IL CUMS EE oT ie mere Let a 42 RISE OM Vere Gy ear oy cet Sr ete et inten ree. OME Pca ten Oa 45 PUBLICATIONS ... Se aaa chabert Akad Gk BS Bate Git 47 DONORS TO THE NUON Carerennnae Fe eh hse ee oh RETOUR Soy BA 57

<<<Page: 13>>>

¥ are
af S%it]

<<<Page: 14>>>

Introduction
A contract between the Government and the architectural firm of McKim, Mead & White for the design of the Museum of History and Technology building was signed March 16, 1956. A program of the requirements for the building, based on many years of study by the Smithsonian staff, was presented to the architects and the work of designing a building which will effectively serve the Museum and the public is progressing satisfactorily. Schedules of work anticipate that working drawings will be sufficiently advanced to permit bids to be asked for the construction of the building in the spring of 1957. Legislation appropriating $33, 712,000 for the construction of the building passed both the House and the Senate in the 2d Session of the 84th Congress. This legislation (Public Law 573) was signed by the President, June 13, 1956. The total appropriation for this building is $36 million.
Funds Allotted
From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year 1956, the sum of $1,390,426 was obligated by the United States National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the National collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geological materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, industry, graphic arts, and history (this amount includes sums expended for the program of exhibits modernization).

<<<Page: 15>>>

Exhibits
The program of modernizing the exhibition halls was continued in 1956 by a Congressional allotment of $411,500. Construction began in the Power Hall in July 1955. Contracts were awarded for the second American Indian Hall in April 1956, and for the Health Hall in May 1956; construction was commenced in these halls in May and June 1956, respectively. During March 1956 the new Bird Hall and the east side of the North American Mammal Hall were completed and opened for public inspection.
Anthropology
The current fiscal year saw 37 new exhibit units, miniature dioramas, and life-size figure groups under development for the second Indian hall. These units will portray the manner of living of Indian tribes that formerly occupied the forested eastern third of the United States; the nomadic hunting tribes of the Great Plains; the salmonfishing and totem-pole building Indians of the Northwest Pacific coast; and the Arctic Eskimo of Greenland and Alaska. The overall plans for this hall and the case layouts were prepared by Associate Curator John C. Ewers, of the division of ethnology, in collaboration with chief exhibits specialist John KE. Anglim and his efficient staff of preparators.
A second large exhibit hall, under the immediate direction of Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins, of the division of ethnology, has for its theme “Everyday Life in Early America.” Following completion of construction work by the contractors, installation of 53 cases and 6 period rooms was commenced. <A noteworthy innovation was the re-erecting within the hall of a complete 17th-century Massachusetts Bay house. This involved careful reassembling of the handhewn timber frame, wall sheathing, wall partitions, replastering with oystershell, lime-and-hair plaster, and the exact reconstruction of the old fireplaces with bricks laid in clay. This house is another generous gift received from Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood of Marlborough, Mass., a fellow of the Smithsonian Institution. Reinstallation of six period rooms offered less difficulty. The paneled walls of the Reuben Bliss parlor (1754) from Springfield, Mass., given to the museum in 1924 by Mrs. Gertrude D. Webster, have been reassembled as a period room. Other period rooms include a late Georgian colonial parlor from Sussex, Va.; an early 19th century schoolroom; and a farmhouse

<<<Page: 16>>>

*Bulsjas UDDIHJ\y JSOF UD Ul UMOYS SI SP1IG SulAl| jo js25i0| 24 |—dnoic) YI4SC)

<<<Page: 17>>>

“{U2ZUIFUOD UBZOI SIU} JO spuDyIQDyul UDIAD |OdISuld ay} 210 Ja4jad Mous 24} pup ‘sjjn& dja pup pnys ‘suinbuad 21]2P\yV puo 4012dWA—d1jD1D,UYy 2uyt JO spiig

<<<Page: 18>>>

“SOUSNG out ul Quiij> Of 4004 sp
asm AUy YDIYM SMDID [DJISIP 2a1J SBUIM AY} UO SADY HIVAWYY YINOSG W|YyIOU JO Pilg siyy Jo BunoA ayj—dnoicy ulzyoo}4

<<<Page: 19>>>

Satin Bower Bird—This Australian bird builds and decorates a bower for courtship display purposes.
Dodo—Skeleton of a strange bird of Mauritius. It became extinct around 1700 and is now known only from bones and old paintings.

<<<Page: 20>>>

Falconry—Since ancient times falcons have been trained for hunting, as a form of sport.
Rifle Birds—These birds use snake skins to line their nests.

<<<Page: 21>>>

Passenger Pigeons—This North American bird, now extinct, formerly
existed in the largest flocks ever known in any wild bird.

<<<Page: 22>>>

Rhinoceros Hornbill—The female of this Malayan bird is walled in after
she begins to lay het eggs in her tree-hole nest. The male brings food for
its mate and young until the latter are ready to fly.

<<<Page: 23>>>

Argus Pheasant—The enormous wing and tail feathers of this bird of the
Malayan jungles are used in the courtship display before the female, seen on the right.

<<<Page: 24>>>

bedroom of about 1800. The house and the several rooms were installed under the supervision of George H. Watson, of Sturbridge, Mass.
Curator Waldo R. Wedel and Associate Curator Clifford Evans of the division of archeology, in collaboration with John EK. Anglm and R. O. Hower of the exhibits staff have been preparing plans for a complete revision and modernization of the North American archeology halls. These plans call for an introductory section that will explain the objectives and methods of archeology, thus serving as a link between North American archeology and the completed hall on Latin American archeology. An adjacent section will show the coming of man to America and the various early hunting complexes of this hemisphere. In the largest section a series of alcoves will illustrate the archeological background of the diverse Indian cultures as seen by the first European visitors to North America. Emphasis will be placed on the relations of these diverse cultures to their various natural environments, the ecology of North American archeology. The last section will consist of a series of topical displays such as aboriginal quarries and mining, trade materials, and tobacco and smoking devices.
Zoology
At a joint meeting of the Audubon Society and tho staff of the Smithsonian Institution, on March 22, 1956, Dr. Irston R. Barnes, President of the Audubon Society of the District of Columbia, Mr. Guy Emerson, Honorary President of the National Audubon Society, and Assistant Secretary John E. Graf of the Smithsonian Institution, formally opened to the public the first of the natural history halls to be modernized—the hall “Birds of the World.” The 10 habitat groups, some of which are reproduced in the accompanying illustrations, show birds of special interest, either because of their size, habits, or rarity. The alcove cases treat of special topics of bird life, such as flight, migration, courtship, nests, eggs, young, feeding habits, variation, and relation to man; while a series of panel cases show the bird life of the principal areas of the world. Even the ceiling is utilized; attached to it, seemingly suspended in the sky, are lifelike paintings of birds in flight—a V-shaped flock of Canada geese, selected types of hawks of eastern United States, and a group of wide-ranging oceanic birds.
In the hall of North American mammals, four new habitat groups (puma, wolf, pronghorn antelope, and white-tailed deer) were opened to the public. Four previously completed groups (caribou, moose, bighorn sheep, and mountain goat) were again shown to visitors after
396826—56——2

<<<Page: 25>>>

being cut off by construction work for more than a year. New labels were prepared for all the foregoing by Dr. David H. Johnson, curator of mammals. Work progressed on four remaining groups (wapiti, black bear, grizzly bear, and bison). Special efforts were made to obtain recently killed specimens for the grizzly and black bear groups, with the result that by the end of the year most of the required specimens were on hand. The black bears were obtained through the cooperation of the Pennsylvania Game Commission and the Virginia Commission of Game and Inland Fisheries; the grizzly bears were provided by the National Park Service.
Extensive planning was done, chiefly by Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of mammals, on the two halls in which a general view of mammals and mammalogy will be presented as “The World of Mammals.”
The modernization of the public displays bearing on the fields of interest of the other zoological divisions is in the planning stage. Dr. Fenner A. Chace, Jr., and Frederick M. Bayer of the division of marine invertebrates, Dr. Harald A. Rehder of the division of mollusks, Dr. Leonard P. Schultz of the division of fishes, and Dr. D. H. Johnson of the division of mammals have participated in a number of discussions concerned with the projected hall of ocean life.
The exhibits staff of the department, with the exception of Joseph D. Biggs, osteologist, was transferred to the Office of Exhibits, under the direction of the assistant director, on September 14, 1955.
Geology
Marked progress in the planning of the exhibition halls was made during this fiscal year. Plans were completed in the division of mineralogy and petrology for adding topical exhibits to the display of minerals. An introductory series to define what a mineral is, and to illustrate the origin, properties and mode of occurrence of minerals will be prepared. A comprehensive exhibit of the major minerals of the world will be arranged systematically, with displays of special groups of minerals from selected world-famous localities. The gem collection will be exhibited in a separate room along with outstanding examples of uncut crystals of the more important gem minerals.
A revision of the present display of fossil plants and invertebrates in the exhibition halls will be effected under the modernization program. ‘The southeast hall will be divided into four sections. Introductory displays showing what fossils are, how they are preserved, the geological time scale, and the role of fossils as geological time indicators will be presented in one section. The fossil plant section will include an exhibit to illustrate the formation of coal as well as a reconstruction of a coal forest. In a third section will be shown exhibits

<<<Page: 26>>>

to depict the biology of fossil invertebrates and to display the important guide fossils to each geological period. The fourth section will be devoted to historical geology and will contain reconstructed assemblages from some of the periods in addition to exhibits showing the major events in earth history. Construction is scheduled for 1958, but preparation of the reproduced invertebrates for several of the habitat reconstructions will commence this year. The detailed plans for the room and the case layout were prepared by William D. Crockett.
The general layout and preliminary plans for the halls which will contain the lower vertebrates were completed and analyses of individual case contents have been undertaken by Associate Curator David H. Dunkle. Selection, segregation, and preparation of specimens is now being actively carried on by the preparators in the laboratory.
Under the supervision of Curator C. L. Gazin, detailed preliminary drawings have been prepared by William D. Crockett for the display of Tertiary mammals. The extinct mammals will be grouped faunally, according to geological time, with accompanying murals to depict habitats and the association of contemporary forms for the particular geologic period. The contents for each display unit have in nearly all instances been determined and material for most of them is at hand.
In the laboratory, restoration of the two giant ground sloth skeletons from Panama, which are to be shown in the Pleistocene section, is nearly completed, as is the restoration work undertaken on the skeletal remains to be returned to Panama for display in their museum. Restoration by Franklin L. Pearce of certain limited materials of mastodon and toxodon for the Panama display will probably be completed by the end of this fiscal year. Exhibits Preparators G. D. Guadagni, John EK. Ott, and Theodore B. Ruhoff, under the supervision of F. L. Pearce, have devoted at least 6 months to the preparation of the Permian reptile specimens to be displayed in the lower vertebrate hall.
A special exhibit of uranium minerals for the convention of the American Federation of Mineralogical Societies at Washington, D. C., in September 1955 was prepared by Museum Geologist James H. Benn.
Dr. G. A. Cooper, curator of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, assembled an exhibit of silicified trilobites and brachiopods for the National Academy of Sciences meeting in Washington in April 1956. |
Engineering and Industries
Planning of the exhibits which will be installed in the Museum of History and Technology was commenced in all sections, and prelimi

<<<Page: 27>>>

nary studies were completed for the halls of textiles, still photography, hand graphic arts, chemistry, medicine, and watercraft.
Modernization of the Power Hall, delayed several months by a shortage of steel, is now approaching completion. The renovation, by the division of graphic arts, of the hall of photomechanical printing has been completed with the addition of 26 new exhibits. Most of the individual exhibits for the hall of health have been designed, and construction work on this hall has commenced. Continuing assistance by the exhibits staff has been involved in all of these projects.
An extensive exhibit illustrating the history of iron and steel production in the United States was opened on January 11, 1956. This exhibit, the gift of the Bethlehem Steel Company, traces in ten units the development of the industry from the discovery of iron ore in 1585 to the high alloy steels of today. Outstanding features of the exhibit are a group of early artifacts from the excavations at Jamestown, Va., a section of the massive Hudson River chain swung into place near West Point, N. Y., on April 16, 1778, to prevent the British from sailing to the upper river, and examples of American iron and steel work from the nineteenth century. The exhibit also contains the first tilting converter built by William Kelly. It was used experimentally in 1861 and 1862.
In the section of land transportation a program of renovation of automobiles was undertaken which has, thus far, resulted in the refurbishing of four automobiles. The 1903 Cadillac, 1903 Oldsmobile, and 1913 Ford were reconditioned through the courtesy of the Cadillac, Oldsmobile, and Ford companies. The 1901 Autocar was reconditioned through the courtesy of the Autocar Division of the White Motor Co.
The gallery exhibit of the section of scientific instruments now consists of 12 units devoted to such fields as weights and measures, surveying, and astrophysics. Each case is designed to tell the story of some instrumental development.
Ten display cases of the division of medicine and public health, completed this fiscal year, portray “Early Dentists and Their Patients,” “Evolution of the Drug Store,” “Physicians to the Presidents,” “Evolution of Hospitals,” “Dr. Wiley’s Crusade,” “Fifty Years of Progress in Food and Drug Protection,” “How Food and Drug Administration Protects You Today,” “Medicine in the Kighteenth Century,” “Polio Vaccine,” “Stethoscopes,” “Vitamins for Health, Growth and Life,” and “Milestones in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Anemia.” The latter two were furnished through the generosity of Merck and Co., and Eli Lilly & Co., respectively. Important components of the other exhibits mentioned were received from the American Dental Association, American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, Armed Forces

<<<Page: 28>>>

Tools from the site of the original Jamestown, Va., settlement (1607-99) illustrate the various uses of iron by the American colonists.
The Production of Iron at Saugus, Mass. 1650
A diorama depicts the furnace (shown here), forge, and rolling and slitting mill of the first commercially successful ironworks in the English colonies.

<<<Page: 29>>>

“DIHWAWYY Ul Adjsnpul j224s PUD UOJ! auy jo JU2WIdO]2A2N°p ayy a2r04 djay ‘iawiassag jo JOssadapaid b ‘Ajay WoII|I AA AQ 198} 240J2q IING 4aeAUOD 224s DH PUD ‘jUIOY JsaAQ 4D 12AIy HOSPNEY 244 420/q Of UOINjoaay aU} UI pasn ‘UIDY>D b Jo SUIT

<<<Page: 30>>>

Medical Library, United States Food and Drug Administration, and Dr. Philip Reichert.
The section of textiles installed exhibits on the early 19th-century weaver Peter Stauffer, on the small hand sewing machine, and on the safety factor of after-dark pedestrian garments. The section of manufactures was greatly improved by the installation of special lighting fixtures, and the exhibits of typewriters, phonographs, and calculating machines by repainting and lettering. It has been necessary to close temporarily the hall of wood technology during the reconstruction of the hall of health.
Among the special displays presented by various sections were an exhibition to commemorate the birth of Benjamin Franklin, a series of oil paintings depicting the history of pharmacy, lent by Parke, Davis, & Co., and a selection of prize winning displays from the Science Fairs held in the Washington, D. C., area.
Color prints from the July 25-Sept. 5 collection
Richard O. Tyler
Hmile Weddige
20 color prints
30 woodcuts 27 color lithographs
Sept. 6—Nov. 6
Nov. 7—Jan. 8 1956
Ferol Sibley Warthen Jan. 9-Mar. 4
and Angele EH. Myrer
29 color woodcuts
Prints from the collec22 prints Mar. 5 through summer tion PHOTOGRAPHY 1955 National Print Collec50 pictorial photographs July—Aug. tion Jeannette Klute 50 color prints Sept.—Oct. National Photographic 47 monochrome prints Nov.—Dece. Society (Annual and 46 color transparSalon) encies 1956 Dr. Joseph R. Spies 59 pictorial photographs Jan,.—Feb. John R. Hogan 40 pictorial photographs Mar.—Apr. Ninth Annual Exhibi50 pictorial photographs May
tion of Marine Photography, International
During construction of the First Ladies hall, some materials now installed in that hall were displayed temporarily in the north and
History

<<<Page: 31>>>

west halls of the Arts and Industries building. Following the transfer of these materials to the respective period rooms, the Women’s Suffrage collection, which had been in storage since its removal from the old costumes hall, was placed on exhibition in the west hall. Charles G. Dorman, museum aide, arranged an effective display in the large east wall case in the north hall of historic furniture and contemporary decorative accessories.
During the year, substantial progress was made on the installation of the uniform and insignia exhibition on the west hall gallery. Glass screens were installed over the fluorescent lights to protect the materials from fading, printed labels were completed for many of the specimens, and collections of insignia and items of personal equipment were installed. The printing of new labels for the hall of naval history is now about three quarters completed.
The United States section of the national postage stamp collection was completely remounted and placed in the floor frames for public viewing during the past fiscal year. This was the first, and possibly the most important, stage in the long-range project of remounting the entire philatelic collection. Thus far this has involved 148 frames devoted entirely to United States postal issues, and 148 frames of United States revenue stamps. The United States section is now as complete as possible up to June 30, 1956. Existing gaps have been itemized, and efforts will be made to procure missing specimens, though most are of great rarity. Starting alphabetically, stamps of countries are being removed from the permanent exhibit frames for careful classification and subsequent remounting. A portion of this group of postal emissions has now been almost completely classified, and the actual remounting is being undertaken. Special displays of postal materials were made available to the Fifth International Philatelic Exhibition, held in the new Coliseum in New York, April 28 through May 6, 1956, and at the American Stamp Dealer’s Association shows in New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles.
Four display cases were refinished in the coin hall, and the Greek and Roman coins were rearranged. All the glass was remounted in the coin cases with steel screws and special cement, giving greater security to the collection. Four special exhibitions were prepared for display in the museum buildings.

<<<Page: 32>>>

Accessions
During the Fiscal Year 1956
During the year 905,475 specimens were added to the national collections and distributed among the six departments as shown on the accompanying tabulation. This total includes 389,485 stamps and 342,213 insects. The accessions for the most part were received as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government departments and agencies, and the most important of these are summarized below. A full list of the donors is to be found on page 57.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY . .... 222 0 + we we we oe 839, 783 ATCHEOLOBY sects ss fat ana otek sae Cet telane ton ty 592, 612 Bthnalopy 4. LOAN edie Kel se teem oF fae 188, 036 @Weramicsy 4! wee ew A hye ce ek a rey Pee 11, 060 Musicalinstruments .......... 2, 460 Period art and textiles ......2.2.. 8, 227 Physical Anthropology ........... 37, 388 DEPARTMENT’ OF /BOTANY 2) GUILE AT2 ASOLO URL BeBe 2, 705, 220 hanerosamst toy harasses (eis bts aaa oelis 1, 770, 512 CC DASSCAME Reta Te oa peinscey ey abe a eR Te ene 360, 774 IRermsh aba corte Sissel ite, Uke Voces lives cali hO 213, 236 Gry BiOLAMSiasers vie cays elas ieary dele Oh Tm eee ALS ite 360, 698 DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES ........172, 126 Craftstand Industries! Sis5 G2) ORs {ans 69, 547 Bupineerine fay oy. 8) sis sitet ajelisd pen etd 34, 134 (Gra HICPATIC@ a ier ch Bee a Sk eyes a ie 45, 872 Medicine and Public Health . ........ 22, 573 DUPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY «2 +15 6 at a ee ewe ie ee 12, 348, 679 Mineralogy and Petrology, ......... 268, 589 Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany .. 12, 038, 768 Vertebrate Paleontology... «1. s.5 s+6s 41, 322 DUPARTMENTL OR LTSTORY: 755 6. sac 40. don th foto ce er Otel jem. ecole ape 1, 244, 547 CivslGEISLOryagery cuscnitarc: cuigd, sao) cafe ca Je 38, 763 MilitanyeENISLOLY 4, tere ce oe eee ee 29, 741 Navaliiistory§.) 8 rasa ee: AOS 4,712 Mmism saties) 4 3b Shee b poreces fen peg! oh 64, 522 Pphibatel yeah to ol.) vaprobte ote eh Guede es 1, 106, 809 De PARTAENT) ORY ZOOLOGY. 2 4s) suee sea Dy Be Oe al we os 26, 445, 655 BVURITIEAAIS ees) eo at on ea Taye oe Od ec Ser no ers 274, 568 EREOS ES ee ee a tae Danie cea SE 488, 220 Fepinlespmea icf aa ltey SS Lick., FV eM 144, 666 Hishesepare. ferocs ra yrds seo ot sake sreeart fs 1, 565, 332 LSE WS gee et ae ao ee MP Re 12, 875, 424 Wanne Invertebrates au. » s. so6 > sale oa 1, 519, 594 MGMUSESNe ec a ee a ee ee ee Se 9, 531, 324 Helmamiths ss eA pe 2S OT ey Sh 46, 527 Toran MuseuM CoLmeuctigns "4°. 22k Pe oe ee 43, 756, 010
*Includes echinoderms, previously listed separately.

<<<Page: 33>>>

Anthropology
Among the outstanding accessions received in the division of ethnology is a collection of specimens from the environs of Nasir on the Sabat River in South Sudan, East Africa, presented by the Rev. A. MacRoy of the American Mission, Malakal, Upper Nile Province, Sudan. This representative collection comes from an area hitherto unrepresented in the national collections. An interesting object is a leopard skin, a traditional court accessory, on which the witness sits while giving evidence during a trial. A perjurer would be subject to dire consequences if he gave false evidence while sitting on this leopard skin. Rings perforating one corner indicate the number of occasions the skin has been used by witnesses. Another item, significant of the culture of the Nuer, is a fighting bracelet of brass, generally worn on the right wrist by men and women alike.
While building a railroad in about 1910, Alexander J. Norris collected objects used in the daily life of the Arawak Indians living in the colony of Perené in the watershed of the Rio Perené (upper Ucayali River), and from the Quechua Indians in the vicinity of Cuzco, Peri. These ethnological specimens consist of hunting and fishing weapons, woven ponchos, and various objects of personal adornment, presented by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Green. Another acquisition of note, a stylistically carved wooden treasure box “waka” originally presented to President Calvin Coolidge by the assembled chiefs of the Arawa, was transferred from the Department of State. The Arawa, a federation of Maori tribes living on the east coast of New Zealand’s North Island, claim descent from members of the crew of the legendary voyaging canoe Arawa that brought the Maori to New Zealand. A notable collection of ceramic tiles given by KE. Stanley Wires of Wellesley, Mass., ranges from early Moorish, Spanish, and Dutch tiles to American types of recent manufacture. They are the result of Mr. Wires’ lifetime interest in the history of tile manufacturing. Through the efforts of Mr. Wires, the tile collection was further enhanced by a pair of ceramic tile panels with animal designs in relief, sculptured by the late Frederick G. R. Roth and presented by his widow.
Other donations to the ethnological collections include a total of 170 examples of Rookwood and other late 19thand early 20th-century pottery assembled by the late Dr. Edwin Kirk and presented by his widow Mrs. Page Kirk; 17 examples of stoneware and pottery made by country potters in Maryland, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia given by Clyde N. Fahrney, Waynesboro, Pa.; numerous glass and ceramic specimens together with documented papers and account books presented by Miss Madeleine Wilkinson.
The division of archeology received a collection of polished jadeite

<<<Page: 34>>>

and other stone objects from the La Venta site in Tabasco, México, as a loan from the Museo Nacional, México, through Dr. Philip Drucker, formerly with the Bureau of American Ethnology. ‘These include beads, celts, figurines, ear-spool parts, and other objects representing the prehistoric Olmec culture of southeastern México. A group of conch shell segments elaborately carved with anthropomorphic and ceremonial art motifs in the style of the late prehistoric Southern Cult, from the Spiro Mound, near Spiro, Okla., was received as a loan from the Lightner Museum of Hobbies, St. Augustine, Fla. <A large collection of pre-Spanish Peruvian artifacts consisting of carved wood, metal, textiles, stone, and pottery, collected about 1910 in Perit by Alexander J. Norris was presented as a gift by his daughter and her husband, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Green. A large collection of archeological material excavated from prehistoric sites on Hokkaido Island, Japan, was generously donated by Lt. Col. Howard MacCord, who has added many unusual objects to the collections.
A series of pathological human bones from Calhoun and Jersey Counties, Ill., was donated by Dr. P. F. Titterington of St. Louis, Mo. Many of the examples of pathology are unusual and extremely interesting from the standpoint of the history of disease. All the material relates to a late prehistoric time period. A collection of 85 skulls received from the Wistar Institute of Philadelphia includes material no longer obtainable and fills some gaps in the national collections. Outstanding in this series is a group of early Eskimo skeletons, collected by the W. B. Van Valin-John Wanamaker Expedition, 191719, at Point Barrow, Alaska, and represent the bearers of the wellknown “Old Bering Sea Ivory Culture.”
Zoology
One of the most valuable and largest single accessions, comprising 600 specimens collected by Robert E. Elbel in Siam, contains especially good series of squirrels and carnivores from localities not previously represented in the collections. Several noteworthy African mammal collections included 249 specimens from Libya collected by Dr. Henry W. Setzer; 61 specimens from the Belgian Congo obtained by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt in the course of the Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition ; and smaller collections made in the Gold Coast by Donald W. Lamm and in Kenya by John P. Fowler. From Ponape in the Caroline Islands, a team headed by Dr. J. T. Marshall, Jr., investigating the ecology of the local rat populations under the auspices of the Pacific Science Board, sent in a collection of 103 mammals. Another welcome addition consists of a skeleton of a large sperm whale and the types of three baleen whales presented by the Academy of Natural] Sciences of Philadelphia. Worthy of notice also are the approximately 300 small

<<<Page: 35>>>

mammals collected by Dr. C. O. Handley, Jr., and John L. Paradiso at selected sites in the Middle Atlantic States. Among the individual accessions of outstanding interest is a Ross seal brought back by the United States Navy’s Antarctic expedition. Other interesting additions include a rare big-eared bat dionycteris phyllotis from Arizona, a rock wallaby from the introduced colony on the island of Oahu in the Hawaiian group, the type of a new shrew from North Carolina obtained by Dr. Albert Schwartz, and the type of a new lemmingmouse from Kentucky sent in by Dr. Roger W. Barbour.
The year’s ornithological accessions include 145 bird skins collected on the Gold Coast by Donald W. Lamm and 137 from Burma, by R. B. Payne. Two deposits were received: 890 skins, 12 skeletons, 2, alcoholics, 5 sets of eggs, and a nest from Panama collected by Dr. A. Wetmore; 261 skins and 32 skeletons of birds collected in Northern Rhodesia by E. L. Haydock. <A transfer from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service increased the Museum’s North American collection by 1,400 bird skins.
Through Dr. Hobart M. Smith, the Museum received from the University of Illinois the gift of 24 paratypes of Mexican reptiles and amphibians. Other worthy gifts include 104 reptiles and amphibians from Germany and Cuba donated by Jerry D. Hardy, and 478 reptiles and amphibians from Virginia collected by William L. Witt.
A valuable private collection of 2,550 fishes, the remainder of the late Dr. William C. Kendall collection, was transferred from the University of Maine, through Dr. W. Harry Everhart and Kendall Warner, grandson of Dr. Kendall. Through Dr. J. M. Carpenter of the University of Kentucky were received 914 South American fishes, forming the collection of the late Dr. William Ray Allen, who coauthored with Dr. Carl H. Eigenmann, “The Fishes of South America,” published by the University of Kentucky. Other types of fishes were received from the California Academy of Sciences through Dr. Earl S. Herald; the University of Hawaii through Dr. William A. Gosline and Dr. John E. Randall; the Chicago Natural History Museum through Mrs. Marion Grey; and from Herbert R. Axelrod, editor of the “Tropical Fish Hobbyist.” Among 53 Pacific fishes transferred to the Museum by the Atomic Energy Commission was a giant seabass, Promicrops lanceolatus, the first record for the Marshall Islands. <A gift from the University of California through Wayne J. Baldwin yielded 634 fishes from the Eastern Pacific. From the Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition to the Belgian Congo 550 fishes collected by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt were added to the collections. Worthy of mention also is the fine series of 1,246 Alabama fresh-water fishes received in exchange from Dr. J. S. Dendy of the Alabama Polytechnic Institute.

<<<Page: 36>>>

By transfer from branches of the U. S. Department of Agriculture three valuable collections of insects were received: first, the largest single accession in the last decade or more, consisting of over 230,000 termites transferred from the Forest Service upon the recommendation of Dr. T. E. Snyder, one of the world’s leading authorities on these destructive insects; second, over 13,000 miscellaneous specimens from the Cereal and Forage Insects Laboratory, Lafayette, Ind.; and third, nearly 70,000 specimens from the Entomology Research Branch. Among the year’s notable gifts were the 4,400 specimens consisting of 4,127 examples (including immature stages) of the family Psychidae (Lepidoptera) and 273 hymenopterous parasites reared from them, donated by Dr. Frank Morton Jones, Wilmington, Del.; the personal collection of Dr. Fred W. Poos, comprising 3,433 miscellaneous North American insects; an important lot of 1,553 midges (Culicoides) from Hawaii, given the Museum by Dr. Willis W. Wirth; 3,577 reared flies of the family Drosophilidae from the Department of Zoology, University of Texas, through Dr. J. T. Patterson; and the second most important collection to come from Thailand, 3,881 insects collected by Robert E. Elbel with the aid of a grant from the Casey Fund.
Outstanding among the collections of marine invertebrates received were 1,709 fresh-water crustaceans and other invertebrates obtained by the Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition to the Belgian Congo, and 267 Australian decapod crustaceans purchased through the Richard Rathbun Fund from S. Kellner of Sydney. Other valuable gifts included: the personal collection of Associate Curator Charles EK. Cutress consisting of 1,056 coelenterates and other invertebrates from the Hawaiian and Marshall Islands, New Zealand, Oregon, and Florida; 2,326 miscellaneous marine invertebrates from the University of California through Dr. Theodore H. Bullock; 75 porcellanid crabs from the Institut Francais d’Afrique Noire, Dakar, through Dr. Théodore Monod; 300 isopods of the genus Limnoria from Dr. Robert J. Menzies, Lamont Geological Observatory, Palisades, N. Y.; and 96 specimens of the nearly extinct shrimp Barbouria cubensis (von Martens) from Dr. Miguel L. Jaume, Museo y Biblioteca de Zoologia de la Habana, Cuba. As an exchange, 37 copepods from the Indian Ocean were received from the Zoological Survey of India, in Calcutta, through Dr. S. L. Hora. Two comprehensive collections were received as transfers: one, from the U. S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., comprising 1,269 crustaceans and other invertebrates from survey vessel collections in the Gulf of Mexico and off the southeastern United States; the other, from the U. S. Navy Hydrographic Office through Dr. Willis L. Tressler, comprised more than 10,000 plankton samples and other invertebrates from the Antarctic.

<<<Page: 37>>>

A considerable number of mollusks were received from regions poorly represented in the museum collections. An exchange from the Bernice P. Bishop Museum yielded 531 specimens from the Bonin Islands; 600 marine mollusks from Kuwait, at the head of the Persian Gulf, were sent in by Harrison M. Symmes; and 447 land and marine mollusks from Libya were collected for the Museum by Dr. Henry W. Setzer. Fine series of North American shells were received: among them were 4,150 specimens from Arkansas, including some paratypes, from Henry E. Wheeler; and 272 miscellaneous mollusks, including 4 holotypes of new species of the genus Conus, donated by Dr. Jeanne S. Schwengel. For the helminthological collections Dr. Edwin J. Robinson, Jr. contributed the types of two new species of trematodes, and Prof. Helen L. Ward sent in the holotype of a new acanthocephan. A specimen of the rare deepwater coral Pocillopora modumanensis Vaughan was donated by the Bernice P. Bishop Museum.
Botany
Notable gifts to the herbarium were 1,298 specimens of Brazilian plants, many from remote areas, contributed by the Instituto Agronémico do Norte, Belém, Brazil; and 853 grasses given by the Welsh Plant Breeding Station, University College of Wales, Aberystwyth, Wales, as voucher material of cytogenetic studies of Zoliwm and Festuca. A fine collection, consisting of 420 slides and 56 photomicrographs, of fossil diatoms from the Summulong Shale of the Philippine Islands was presented by Col. William D. Fleming. This accession was assembled by the late Mr. James Smith of Pasadena, Calif., and will be kept intact as a unit to be known as the James Smith Memorial Collection. C. V. Morton obtained 1,066 specimens of plants on his collecting trip to the Sawtooth Wilderness Area, Idaho.
Significant material from the Guayana Highland area, Venezuela, included 1, 341 specimens sent by the New York Botanical Garden in exchange or with a request for identifications; and 331 specimens received from the Chicago Natural History Museum.
A valuable collection of 1,000 Brazilian plants collected by Amaro Macedo was purchased by the Museum. More than 900 plants of Fiji and New Caledonia collected by Dr. H. S. McKee were acquired in part by purchase, in part for identification, and in part in exchange from the Botanical Gardens, Department of Agriculture, Sydney, Australia.
Among the numerous exchanges were 1, 295 plants of New Guinea and Australia received from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia; and 1,769 specimens from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, includ

<<<Page: 38>>>

ing a number, of historic importance, from the United States and Latin American countries.
Two transfers were received from the Department of the Interior: 578 plants of Alaska collected by Victor H. Cahalane, from the National Park Service; and 1,197 plants of Micronesia collected by F. R. Fosberg, from the Geological Survey.
Geology
The first synthetic diamond, a specimen of great scientific and historical value, made by the General Electric Co., is one of the most unusual and interesting items added to the mineral collection in recent years. Among other fine and rare minerals received as gifts are: from Prof. A. Schoep a specimen of his new species likasite, a complex copper nitrate from the Belgian Congo; from Prof. F. Heide crystals of his new iron-boracite (ericaite) from the South Harz District, Germany; and several large masses of jadeite collected for the Museum by James M. DuPont from a newly discovered locality in Guatemala.
Among the 564 specimens added to the Roebling collection were some of outstanding exhibition quality, including an 18-inch pink tourmaline crystal from Mozambique, a flawless peridot crystal from Burma weighing 455 carats, and a magnificant group of unusually large autunite crystals from the Daybreak mine near Spokane, Wash. From the lead-zinc mines of Trepca, Yugoslavia, came a series of select crystallized specimens of pyrrhotite, sphalerite, and arsenopyrite. A magnificent specimen of the rare paradamite from the Ouelja mine, near Mapimi, México, recently described as a new species by Dr. George Switzer, was obtained as an exchange.
Among the important specimens credited to the Canfield collection is a large specimen of brilliant green crystals of the copper silicate dioptase from French Equatorial Africa, and a large opal mass with brilliant fire from Virgin Valley, Nev.
Several unusual gems from Burma acquired by purchase through the Chamberlain fund for the Isaac Lea collection include a violetcolored spinel (80 carats), yellow danburite (18 carats), and yellow diopside (5 carats).
Eleven meteorites new to the collection purchased through the Roebling funds are: Cashion, Okla., Achilles, Kans., Bununu, Nigeria, Giroux, Canada, Clover Springs, Ariz., Lombard, Mont., Briggsdale, Colo., Livingston, Mont., Ovid, Colo., Taiban, N. Mex., and Rifle, Colo.
Types and figured specimens of Upper Cambrian brachiopods were received from Dr. W. C. Bell, University of Texas; 4,500 specimens of Tertiary mollusks from Los Angeles County, Calif., were presented by Mrs. Effie M. Clark; and 2,000 specimens of Lower De

<<<Page: 39>>>

vonian fossils from Orange County, N. Y., were given by Mr. Robert M. Finks of Brooklyn College. Important gifts of Foraminifera are: 94 type specimens from Venezuela donated by W. H. Blow, Pointe-a-Pierre, Trinidad, B. W. I.; 28 type slides of Paleocene species from New Jersey given by Dr. J. Hofker, The Hague, Holland; and 815 type slides from the Jurassic, Cretaceous, Paleocene and Eocene of Egypt presented by Dr. Rushdi Said, Meadi, Egypt.
The invertebrate fossil collections were further enhanced through field trips made possible from Walcott funds. Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and Dr. N. F. Sohl of the United States Geological Survey collected 32 microsamples from the early Tertiary of New Jersey. Dr. David Nichol and Robert J. Main brought back 12 foraminiferal samples and 2,000 specimens of Cretaceous mollusks from Texas. Purchases made with Walcott funds added to the collections 896 Tertiary Foraminifera and Ostracoda from Czechoslovakia and 2,000 type Foraminifera from the Upper Cretaceous of Spain.
More than 200 specimens of fossil fishes and reptiles from the Upper Cretaceous chalk of Kansas were collected for the National Museum by Dr. D. H. Dunkle and G. D. Guadagni. Other notable accessions include a skeleton of the largest of the Permian pelycosaurs, Cotylorhynchus, received from the University of Oklahoma; 26 specimens of Mesozoic and Tertiary fishes of Europe and the Near East from the Carnegie Museum; and specimens of the Devonian arthrodire Dinichthys and the shark Cladoselache from the Cleveland Museum of Natural History. Particularly valuable to the study collections were the subholostean fish Ptycholepus and the holostean Semionotus, from the Upper Triassic in nearby Virginia, presented by Mr. Shelton Applegate of the University of Virginia; the lower jaws and skeletal portions of the rare Miocene porpoise Phocageneus, found by Mr. Roland A. Fowler at Fairhaven Cliffs in Maryland; and a skull of the porpoise Rhabdosteus, also from Fairhaven Cliffs, collected by Dr. Remington Kellogg, Franklin L. Pearce, and G. D. Guadagni. The first representation of an interesting fish, a suite of Leptolepis nevadensis, collected by Dr. Thomas B. Nolan from the Lower Cretaceous of Nevada, was transferred from the United States Geological Survey. The exceedingly rare Middle Eocene bowfin Paramiatus gurleyi, from the famous fossil-fish quarries in the Green River formation near Fossil, Wyo., was purchased by Walcott funds.
Engineering and Industries
A large collection of hydraulic machines from the pioneer turbine inventors Uriah Boyden, James B. Francis, and A. M. Swain are welcome additions in the section of heavy machinery. These were presented by the Proprietors of Locks and Canals on Merrimac River,

<<<Page: 40>>>

Lowell, Mass. Other important power machines received are an Otto and Langen gas engine, gift of the firm of Kléckner-HumboldtDeutz, Germany; the first De Laval steam turbine exhibited in the United States, lent by the De Laval Steam Turbine Co.; the first steam engine built by M. W. Baldwin (1829) and a Corliss steam engine, gifts of the Franklin Institute; and a model of the world’s first hydroelectric central power station, at Appleton, Wis., lent by the Wisconsin-Michigan Power Co. Further notable additions are: the steam velocipede built by Sylvester H. Roper about 1869 and the steam tricycle built by George A. Long about 1880, lent by John H. Bacon; the astronomic transit constructed by Repsold about 1860, from the United States Naval Observatory. From the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory examples were received of some of the important instruments developed by that bureau, such as Abbot’s pyrheliometer and the vacuum bolometer.
Among the outstanding examples of the graphic arts are a lithograph, “Three Figures,” by Georges Rouault, and a stencil print, “Compotier” by Pablo Picasso, presented by Mrs. Robert S. Schwab. Thirteen original pictorial photographs by Edward Weston were purchased through the Eickemeyer fund.
Examples of recent advances in the field of medicine, received by the Museum, included vials of poliomyelitis vaccine produced for the 1954 field trials by Wyeth Laboratories, Eli Lilly & Co., and PitmanMoore Co., and hearing aid apparatus made by the Sonotone Corp., Otarion, Inc., and Telex, Inc.
A significant specimen donated by Arthur E. Wullschleger is a woven-silk reproduction of Trumbull’s famous painting “The Signing of the Declaration of Independence,” made under Mr. Wullschleger’s personal direction by a number of the most skilled weavers in the French silk industry in Lyons. The gift comprises the framed silk Jacquard picture, an excellent example of this type of weaving, and trial samples which preceded the completed picture.
In the fields of woods and textiles, notable specimens received are a double length of an early 19th-century damask tablecloth, made on a draw loom, gift of Mrs. Katherine Estey Cross, deceased, through her daughter, Mrs. John A. Bartelt, and a group of woods from Florida, Texas, and Mexico, received from Orville A. Oaks.
History
Since the Museum has the only collection of White House china of any size in its exhibition and study groups, a concentrated effort has been made to complete this collection. Specimens of the state service designed for use in the newly decorated White House dining room at the end of the Truman administration and continued in use as the

<<<Page: 41>>>

state china during the Eisenhower administration were received as gifts from Lenox, Inc. Received as a gift from the Polk Memorial Association, Nashville, Tenn., is a dessert plate from the state china used in the White House during the Polk administration. Col. Theodore Barnes, Jr., changed from loan to gift a plate and a dessert cup from the official White House china of the Lincoln administration and presented two dessert plates from the state service of the Hayes administration.
Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented gifts of miscellaneous costume materials including the pin she wore as an ornament on her wedding dress which is exhibited in the Museum. A magnificent garnet-red velvet dress worn by Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland, sister of President Grover Cleveland and First Lady of the White House from his inauguration in 1885 until his marriage in 1886, was presented by Miss Constance H. Wood, niece of Miss Cleveland.
The division of military history received as a bequest of Albert G. McChesney a fine officer’s sword, of the period of the War of 1812, with a finely engraved scabbard and biued and gilded steel blade.
The most important additions to the philatelic collections are original sketches for stamp designs by the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt and autographed or initialed by him. These items were among 30,817 specimens loaned by former Postmaster General James A. Farley. The Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, transferred a complete set of 22 die proofs of the Migratory Bird Hunting (Duck) stamps believed to be the only complete set of die proofs outside the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. A worldwide collection of 71,726 varieties was received from Mrs. T. S. Palmer, in accordance with the will of her late husband, Dr. Theodore S. Palmer.
Outstanding numismatic accessions are: Two 10-thaler pieces of Brunswick-Luneburg struck in 1660; two gold coins of Albania and Egypt, presented by Paul A. Straub; and a series of 232 coins lent by the American Numismatic Association as an addition to their collection of 20th-century foreign coins.

<<<Page: 42>>>

Care of Collections
TransGifts to ferred Loaned for Submitted Exchanged _educato other study toin-
or with other tional Govern_vestigators Received in identifiIdentified instituinstitument and instie Department accessions cation on request tions tions agencies tutions
Anthropology . _—_‘19, 371 382 1,553 1,634 41,547 12 85 Zoology .. . 409,127 49,896 30,932 5,254 3,579 349 62, 458 Botany. ... 32,616 10,607 8,997 8,964 1,819 0 16,149 Geology ... 48,900 4,981 4,343 1,283 #1, 086 339 3, 819 Eng. &Ind.. . 4,292 2,184 2,162 9 189 0 321 History. . . . 391,167 25,985 25, 983 1 1 0 6, 184
Tota, . 905,473 94,035 73,970 17,145 8,221 . 700 89,016
Anthropology
A. Joseph Andrews, chief preparator in the anthropology laboratory, prepared a number of casts of archeological specimens and bones, cleaned 224 pieces of silver, and repaired or restored broken porcelain, earthenware and ceramic objects.
Noteworthy progress during the year was made in the preservation of outstanding and intrinsically valuable collections, particularly the Arthur Michael collection of early American silver, the Hugo Worch collection of keyboard instruments, and the George Catlin collection of paintings of North American Indians.
To meet the requirements necessary for proper control of temperature and humidity, an air conditioning system is now being installed in the W. L. Abbott room. The large collection of paintings depicting the ethnology of the West will be assembled here for permanent housing and safe preservation. These were painted by such early 19th century artists as George Catlin, Charles Bird King, Charles Mix Stanley and others.
Dismantled exhibits from the American Indian and period art and textiles halls, now in process of renovation, have temporarily overtaxed the storage space allotted the division of ethnology and have hampered the efforts of the staff to maintain a satisfactory classification of these materials. Assistant Curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., was assigned responsibility for preservation and storage of all specimens removed from these exhibition halls, as well as supervising the cataloging and preservation of incoming accessions.
396826—65——_3 19

<<<Page: 43>>>

Assistant Curator G. Carroll Lindsay developed a procedure for the cleaning of 15thto 17th-century embroidery of fantastic design raised on “stumps” or wool pads. Over a period of many years these embroideries had accumulated much dust and grime. After being covered with a light wire screen, they were cleaned with a hand vacuum, and the remainder of the dust removed with a very light camel’shair brush. Carbon tetrachloride was then applied to 1 square inch of the fabric at a time and allowed to dry before an adjoining area of similar size was treated. This procedure prevented the dirt embedded within the thick wool pads from running or smearing.
By concentrating on the numbering of specimens, the division of archeology effected a significant reduction in the backlog of items awaiting cataloging. The assignment of temporary clerical help during the summer eliminated the processing backlog of 29,600 specimens received in the fiscal year 1955. The successful operation of the archeology laboratory during the year is the result largely of the supervision exercised by Museum Aide George Metcalf, to whom an increasingly greater share of direct responsibility has been delegated.
Zoology
Material progress has been made on the long term project of merging the mammal collection of the Fish and Wildlife Service with that of the National Museum. This consolidation, involving a complete rearrangement of the combined collections, brings together the largest research collection of recent mammals ever assembled. Visiting scientists who have consulted parts of the collection where the merger and reorganization have been completed are impressed by the ease with which specimens can be found. Properly prepared specimens kept in lightproof, dustproof, and insectproof cases will last for centuries with slight deterioration, but if they are frequently handled their life expectancy will be shortened to decades or even to years. Under the new arrangement, by an adequate system of guide labels on cases and drawers and by the segregation of series of specimens in separate trays, most of the necessity for actually handling specimens, either by staff members engaged in routine curatorial work or by visiting scientists, is materially reduced.
Special problems have arisen concerning the skulls and skeletons of large whales partly through acquisition of new material and partly through crowding occasioned by the present program of renovating exhibits, Some of these specimens were moved to attic storage space, and plans were drawn up for the more efficient utilization of the space in the east-court shed.
Modernizing the bird hall necessitated constructing a number of wooden storage cabinets behind the new habitat groups to provide

<<<Page: 44>>>

housing for the mounted birds removed from exhibition. Specimens no longer needed for display purposes were given to educational institutions, schools, and to the National Park Service, while those desired for reference purposes were dismounted and returned to the study series. A considerable amount of this work remains to be done. Further progress on the continuing task of reidentifying all specimens was accomplished by the division staff, assisted by Dr. J. W. Aldrich and A. J. Duvall of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
On March 1, 1956, an inventory of the collection of reptiles and amphibians was started. About one-fifth of the frogs in the collection have been examined and the identifications verified. The collections of fishes are in an excellent state of preservation, and, so far as processed and cataloged, are arranged in an orderly manner and are readily accessible. There remains, however a large backlog of uncataloged material which is not readily accessible.
Despite shortage of space and staff, the division of insects has made gratifying progress this year in the care of the collection. The termite collection, consisting of over 230,000 specimens in vials, was completely overhauled and relabeled by Dr. Thomas EK. Snyder. The Bromely collection of robber flies, accessioned last year, was processed, labeled, and incorporated with the museum series; 3,577 reared specimens of Drosophila were mounted and labeled; and miscellaneous insects received from Fred Poos, H. Howden, R. E. Elbel, Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 at Cairo, and other sources were processed. A collection of 3,581 spiders was completely rehabilitated by relabeling all specimens and placing them in glass vials. The entire collection of Fulgoridae was rearranged. At least 106,470 insects were added to the permanent study collection and more than 900 types were segregated.
Replacement of the less trustworthy aluminum-capped bottles in the alcoholic collections of marine invertebrates was completed, and considerable headway was made on the task of replacing with neoprene rings the faulty gaskets on many of the half-pint clamp-top glass jars. During the year over 19,000 specimens, representing more than 2,200 entries, were cataloged.
The physical condition of the mollusk collection is generally good, but without additional staff no appreciable reduction of the ever-present large backlog of cataloged lots awaiting intercalation in the study series can be made. Specimens that are not intercalated in the proper systematic place in the collection remain relatively inaccessible.

<<<Page: 45>>>

Botany
Available storage space for the permanent botanical collections was increased about 20 percent by the delivery of new herbarium cases, which enabled the staff to expand and rearrange the herbarium.
The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the processing of new material are summarized in the following table:
1954-55 1955-56
Specimens and photographs mounted.......... 35,176 32, 729 Specimens . repaired: 2s. 06 6 Shak ee eer el aise ee 3, 550 3, 174 Specimens stamped and recorded............. 40,085 25, 609 Specimens incorporated in herbarium.......... 42,895 23, 604
The segregated type herbarium was increased by 372 specimens. There are now 55,300 types, including 38,918 phanerogams, 9,894 grasses, 3,308 ferns, and 3,185 cryptograms.
The Hitchcock and Chase Library contains 7,099 publications, 32 having been added during the year. The grass species index contains 80,421 cards, an increase of 824 cards for the year.
Geology
It should be noted that the problems involved in caring for the collections in each of the divisions are quite different. The collections of minerals are now in excellent condition, but some condensation and rearrangement of rock collections transferred by the United States Geological Survey is needed. The meteorite collection has grown so large that some provision for larger quarters must be made in the near future. It will be advantageous to house these meteorites in an air conditioned room to reduce destructive effects of changes in temperature and humidity. Space was found during the year for storing the Bauer collection of Franklin, N. J., minerals and for the incorporation of the Trainer garnet collection. The miscellaneous collection of the late Frank L. Hess was also sorted for intercalation in the reference series.
Frank Holden, in charge of the lapidary shop, reports that 173 specimens of rocks, minerals, and ores were cut and polished ; 89 meteorites were cut, polished, and etched; and 114 thin sections were prepared. Forty-one persons interested in polishing techniques visited the lapidary shop.
The invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany collections are increasing rapidly. An additional room has been made available for housing the foraminiferal collections. ‘The sorting of the silicified Permian fossils from the Glass Mountains has been nearly completed. Of the etched specimens, about 500 drawers have been sorted into genera. Provision has been made for the expansion of the Paleozoic pelecypod biological collection. The sorting of the Renfro collection,

<<<Page: 46>>>

which is rich in fossil mollusks, is scheduled. Robert Finks, a Columbia University graduate student, continued his study of and arrangement of the Paleozoic sponge collection.
Because of the large work load resulting from the exhibition program, virtually no preparation of higher vertebrate materials for the study collection has been carried on during the year. Cataloging has been completed of the Paleocene mammal collections from the Twin Creek area of Wyoming and from the Almy formation, and also of specimens from the upper Eocene Badwater localities. Cataloging of the lower vertebrates has kept up with current accessions, and as the search for suitable specimens for exhibit purposes has progressed, refinements have been effected in the segregation and arrangement of the stored collections of lower vertebrates.
Kingineering and Industries
Significant progress was made in improving the condition and arrangement of the reference collections, chiefly through the activity of Fuller Griffith and Mrs. Selma Perry, aide and clerk-stenographer in the division of graphic arts, and Leslie Newville, in the office of the head curator.
Museum Aide Griffith examined and reorganized a large amount of graphic arts material. Mrs. Perry continued a project for the improvement of the catalog cross-referencing system, to which she added over 2,000 entries. Mr. Griffith also assisted A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., in a survey of the collection of photographic equipment, made in connection with the preparation of exhibit plans for the Museum of History and Technology.
Mr. Newville was assigned to projects in several sections. For the division of engineering he organized and filed a substantial number of marine photographs and drawings. Notable among these were the Fish Commission photographs and the Griffith collection of ship drawings, which were identified where necessary, and repaired. He also sorted, repaired, and filed a large amount of documentary material relating to the distinguished American hydraulic engineer Uriah Boyden. For the section of manufactures he sorted, repaired, and filed 75 percent of the collection of drawings by A. L. Holley, pertaining to the steel industry.
Additional storage lockers received during the year were utilized to improve the storage conditions of reference collections of agricultural patent models, scientific instruments, phonographs, and tools. In the section of wood technology, 748 specimens were cut and numbered for the reference collection by Museum Aides Edward Avery and Joseph Greene. A number of damaged marine drawings from

<<<Page: 47>>>

the Griffith collection were repaired through the courtesy of the National Archives and Record Service.
History
A generous donation received during the year provided funds for laundering some 35 specimens in the Copp collection of 18thand 19th-century costumes and household furnishings. New storage lockers for the costumes collection were designed by Associate Curator Margaret Brown Klapthor, and to 20 such units on the north gallery were moved the costumes in storage in the south rooms of the west gallery storage area. These rooms were then assigned to the divisions of military and naval history.
The uniforms in storage were rearranged and many were placed in sealed units. Substantial progress was made on the task of collating the military and naval insignia. Some progress was made on the program for separating the reference collections of military and naval materials.
A large vault constructed to house the reference collections of the division of philately, provided some 2,000 cubic feet of protected storage space. The rearrangement of the philatelic reference collections continues as new stock books become available. All the Greek and Roman series of coins on exhibition were cleaned and given necessary preservative treatment before being replaced in the recently refinished display cases. Collation of the reference collections of coins and paper money continued.
The usual precautions against insect, light, and dust damage were taken. The routine work of checking specimens in storage against catalog cards, of locating, tagging and marking specimens, of identifying and cataloging new specimens and old ones, and of making minor repairs on the specimens, continued.

<<<Page: 48>>>

Investigation and Research
Anthropology
On April 2, 1956, Head Curator Frank M. Setzler began excavations in an early colonial site in Virginia known as Marlborough Town. This was established as an important river port and county seat for Stafford County by Acts of the Virginia Assembly in 1691 and 1705. The town was abandoned and the land taken over as a large Virginia plantation in the early part of the 18th century. The work was carried forward in collaboration with Prof. Oscar H. Darter, Department of History, Mary Washington College, and C. Malcolm Watkins, associate curator of ethnology of the National Museum, under a grant from the American Philosophical Society. The excavations revealed the foundation of a large house, 117 feet long and 30 to 35 feet wide, which seems to have been used by John Mercer after 1725. The specimens recovered from the excavations consisted of iron, porcelain, earthenware, pewter, silver, and glass. There is a possibility that the large structure subsequently used as a house by John Mercer may have been the original Stafford County Courthouse.
Archeology.—While on detail to the River Basin Surveys of the Bureau of American Ethnology, from July 13 to September 13, 1955, Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator, assisted by Museum Aide George Metcalf, supervised archeological excavations in South Dakota. This field study was a continuation of investigations begun by Dr. Wedel in 1951 at a multicomponent village site near the junction of the Cheyenne and Missouri Rivers. The 1955 excavations confirmed earlier inferences that the site had been occupied during at least three different periods of time, probably with intervening periods of nonoccupancy. The three occupations are believed to have occurred between about A. D. 1300 and 1775. The last group of Indians to have lived on the site in all probability were identifiable with the Arikara. Within a few years this site will be inundated by the waters impounded by Oahe Dam, now under construction by the Corps of Engineers a few miles north of Pierre, S. Dak.
After returning to Washington, Dr. Wedel completed a paper, “The Central North American Grassland, Manmade or Natural 2,” part of which he read before the Anthropological Society of Washington. Certain theories attribute the lack of trees in the Great Plains and adjacent prairies to the long-continued and widespread Indian prac-

<<<Page: 49>>>

tice of hunting game with fire drives. ‘These theories were reviewed, and on the basis of recent climatologic studies by competent scholars, and their observations of tree behavior in the grassland during the great drought of the 1930’s, Dr. Wedel concluded that man’s role, or that of the Indian, was decidedly a secondary one in the formation and maintenance of typical grassland vegetation. As time permitted, Doctor Wedel continued work on his report of archeological investigations in Kansas from 1937 to 1940 and after.
Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator, and Dr. Betty J. Meggers, honorary research associate, classified 65,000 potsherds from a deep stratigraphic cut at La Chorrera, on the Rio Babahoya in the Guayas Basin, Ecuador. This analysis revealed significant material heretofore unreported from this part of South America. A complex of pottery types from the lowest levels in the cut compares favorably with the early materials from the Formative Periods in Honduras, México, and the coast of Peru. Work was also continued by Dr. Evans and Dr. Meggers on their anthropological collections from British Guiana. The opportunity during the year to confer with colleagues and to study collections trom Trinidad and the Lower Orinoco at other museums made it possible for them to complete the analysis of specimens and prepare comparative data. The study of the material culture change and other ethnographic details of the Wai Wai Indians of British Guiana is now proceeding.
George Metcalf, museum aide, continued preparation of a report of the archeological investigation on a late Arikara village site in North Dakota by the River Basin Surveys. He also continued work on a report on a number of prehistoric sites excavated by the Nebraska State Historical Society in central Nebraska in 1989.
The extended illness of Neil M. Judd, research associate, delayed considerably his analysis of materials collected in Chaco Canyon for the National Geographic Society. He has again resumed his study of the material culture of the Pueblo del Arroyo site.
Ethnology.—Herbert W. Krieger, curator, carried forward his long-range analysis of the historical Indian cultures of the Antilles. Eyewitness and contemporary accounts, relative to materials and Indians brought back to Spain by Christopher Columbus on his first voyage and displayed by him at Palos, Sevilla, and Barcelona, were reviewed. The study of archeological materials recovered on Lucayan, Ciguayan, Taino, Carib, and Ciboney village sites in the Bahamas, Hispaniola, Cuba, and the Virgin Islands was continued.
Associate Curator John C. Ewers from September 18 to October 1, 1955, examined the ethnographical specimens in the Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology, Harvard University, which had been collected from the Plains Indians in 1804-06 by the expedition to the Pacific Coast under the direction of Lewis and Clark. An

<<<Page: 50>>>

extensive paper, “George Catlin, Painter of Indians and the West,” prepared by Mr. Ewers for publication in the Annual Report of the Smithonsian Institution, provides a sketch of Catlin’s life, an evaluation of the artistic, historic, and scientific importance of his paintings, as well as a checklist by tribes and areas of the 450 Catlin paintings in the National Museum. Effective February 26, 1956, Mr. Ewers transferred to the office of the assistant director to serve as planning officer for the Museum of History and Technology.
As time permitted, C. Malcolm Watkins, associate curator, continued his analysis of the colonial ceramic collections in the National Park Service Laboratory at Jamestown, Va. This study will provide data on American colonial crafts, as well as an analysis, description, and interpretation of 17th-century Virginia pottery types, with special emphasis on the earlier earthenwares, about which only slight information is available.
G. Carrol Lindsay was appointed assistant curator February 20, 1956.
Physical Anthropology—A grant of $3,000, received on March 9, 1955, from the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, enabled Dr. T. Dale Stewart, curator of physieal anthropology, and Dr. Mildred Trotter of Washington University, St. Louis, to organize a summer seminar in human identification. This seminar, held in the Museum of Natural History from September 7 to 9, 1955, was attended by representatives from other institutions, and from government agencies.
Subsequently Dr. Stewart resumed the excavation, begun in 1953, of an Indian ossuary on Nanjemoy Creek in Charles County, Md. Approximately 35 adult skeletons were found when the remaining unexcavated area was exposed. The excavation was completed October 15, 1955.
Having been invited to contribute to Clinical Orthopaedics an article on the subject of anomalies of the back, Doctor Stewart reexamined the series of Eskimo skeletons, studied in 1953, which had been arranged in two matched series, one containing only individuals with defects in the neural arches of the lumbar vertebrae, and the other containing only individuals free from such defects. Each series was compared to determine whether they differed in frequencies of certain characters known to contribute to postural strains centering in the low back.
On September 6, 1955, the Quartermaster Corps detailed Dr. T. W. McKern to work with Dr. Stewart on the data, which the latter had collected in Japan in 1954-55, relating to skeletal aging. Analysis of these data was continued throughout the fiscal year. Certain sex differences in the pelvis which Dr. Stewart noted during these and other studies of the human skeleton were summarized in a paper read at the annual

<<<Page: 51>>>

meeting of the American Association of Physical Anthropology in Chicago.
In addition to his research activities, Doctor Stewart served as president of the American Institute of Human Paleontology, delivered one of the All-University lectures at the University of Wisconsin on the subject of “Diseases of Prehistoric Man,” and as contributing editor of the Handbook of Latin American Studies summarized the literature for the years 1953-55 in the field of physical anthropology.
Dr. Marshall T. Newman, associate curator of physical anthropology, was awarded a grant from the National Science Foundation to study the effect of improved nutrition on the physique of the Indians at Hacienda Vicos, Pert. The basic study will be conducted from March to August 1956, and a followup investigation will be made about 4 years hence.
Research by visiting investigators.—During the past year 3,656 visitors requested information, examined collections and conferred with staff members on anthropological problems; 4,006 letters were written, and 8,947 telephonic inquiries were answered. Among the significant work on the collections by outside investigators was the study of the aboriginal textiles in the division of archeology by Miss Irene Emery and Miss Mary EK. King, of the Textile Museum of Washington, who have succeeded in making an important quantitative analysis of aboriginal Andean textile techniques. Some rare and | scientifically important textile specimens were found in the Andean collection.
Among the distinguished visitors and scientists from foreign countries who used our anthropological collections for research were the following:
Dr. Prasop Ratanakorn, Chief Psychia-| Dr. A. C. Frohlich, Joest Museum fiir trist, Mental Hospital, Bangkok, Volkerkunde, Koln, Germany: Mu-
Thailand: Cultural exhibits as a psyseum methods, cataloging, and prochiatric method. cedures for exchange of photographs.
Dr. V. M. Patino, Bogota, Columbia: | Senora Pilar Fernandez Vega, Director, Types of Panamanian Indian corn obMuseo Artes Decorativas, Madrid, tained by Smithsonian-Marsh Darien Spain: Exhibits pertaining to Hisexpedition of 1924. panic America.
Dr. M. B. Francoise Girard, Musée de | Julio J. Hernandes, Havana, Cuba: InVHomme, Paris: Collection storage dian war club and tomahawk and the methods; exhibition and contents of trade pipe tomahawk. the Oceanic collections, particularly | Dr. Phillip V. Tobias, Department of from Easter Island. Anatomy, University of the Wit-
William W. De Jong and Alexander watersrand, Johannesburg, South Kroonenberg, The Hague, NetherAfrica: Research problems and storlands: American material culture. age arrangements of the division of
Dr. Ake Hultkrantz, Stockholm, Swephysical anthropology. den: Harly location of Shoshone Indian tribes.

<<<Page: 52>>>

Zoology
Mammals.—Acting Curator David H. Johnson and Lt. J. Knox Jones, Jr., U. S. Army, published three preliminary systematic papers on the mammals collected in Korea by hemorrhagic fever teams under the auspices of the Armed Forces Epidemiological Board. Dr. Johnson also continued to work on faunal projects involving the mammals of southeastern Asia and the systematics of murine rodents.
Associate Curator Henry W. Setzer made good progress on his studies on the mammals collected by United States Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 in Egypt and adjoining countries and prepared reports on the insectivores and hares of Egypt. In September 1955 Dr. Setzer visited the British Museum (Natural History) to study African mammals before proceeding to Cairo, Egypt, where he consulted with the staff of Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3. The following 10 weeks were devoted to field investigations in Libya. With headquarters at Wheelus Air Force Base, Tripoli, collecting was carried on as far east as Derna, Cyrenaica, and south, in the interior, as far as Traghan, Fezzan. Returning to Washington late in December, Dr. Setzer during the winter and spring undertook studies of his Libyan collections.
Associate Curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., brought nearly to completion his part of the report on the mammals of Ungava, being prepared in collaboration with Dr. Dana Snyder. Dr. Handley also made material progress on studies of mammals of the high Arctic regions, mammals of the Kalahari Desert, marsupials of the Neotropical regions (including discovery of a new Marmosa from Peri), and a review of the shrew Cryptotis parva. While engaged in field collecting in the Middle Atlantic States he visited the Mountain Lake area in southwestern Virginia in September 1955 and, with Museum Aide John Paradiso, during April 1956, collected in the coastal salt marshes at Back Bay and Chincoteague, Va., and at Oceanville, N. J.
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., curator of the division of mammals for 42 years and research associate of the Smithsonian Institution since January 1, 1941, died in Washington, D. C., on February 24, 1956, at the age of 84. Another member of the honorary scientific staff, Dr. Theodore S. Palmer, also died this year, July 23, 1955, at the age of 87. For 44 years a member of the staff of the Biological Survey, United States Department of Agriculture, Dr. Palmer had been a Smithsonian Institution associate in zoology since August 1, 1933.
Birds.—Curator Herbert Friedmann revised and enlarged his manuscript dealing with data on parasitic reproduction in African cuckoos. Under a special grant from the Guggenheim Foundation, he continued an investigation of the digestion of beeswax by honeyguides.

<<<Page: 53>>>

The nature of the wax-splitting process has now been clarified, and attention is being oriented toward biochemical aspects of the end products and the bearing of the new information on tuberculosis therapy. Dr. Friedmann devoted further time to the fifth edition of the “A. O. U. Check-list of North American Birds” and to the second volume of the “Birds of Mexico,” and began work on a paper on the parasitic mode of reproduction in the weaverbirds.
Associate Curator Herbert G. Deignan, in continuation of his studies on the birds of Thailand, revised various groups of species where new data or additional specimens indicated that such action was necessary. His critical catalog of the type specimens of birds in the national collections was also kept up to date.
Dr. A. Wetmore, research associate, also assisted in the preparation of the fifth edition of the “A. O. U. Check-list of North American Birds” and continued work on the extensive Panamanian and Colombian collections he has amassed during the past 16 years or more. He also spent 3 months in Panama, collecting over 900 additional specimens from an area that he had previously visited.
Reptiles and Amphibians.—For the nearly completed catalog of types, cotypes, and paratypes in the national collections, there yet remains the final checking of all the published works of authors who have had access to the collections. Asa result of this undertaking by Dr. Doris M. Cochran, associate curator, a number of hitherto unrecognized type specimens were located and properly labeled. The annotated list of these types will cover approximately a century of herpetological taxonomy, since the oldest types in the museum are those described by Baird and Hallowell in the 1850’s. Research on the frogs of western Brazil is still being held in abeyance pending the receipt of additional material from critical areas. A supplement to Dr. Cochran’s “Herpetology of Hispaniola” was initiated, as rather extensive Haitian material has been received since its publication in 1941.
Fishes.—Curator Leonard P. Schultz and Associate Curator Ernest A. Lachner submitted for publication volume 2 of “The Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands.” ‘This extensive work, undertaken in conjunction with the atom bomb experiments, has occupied nearly all of the research time of the curator since January 1946 and that of the associate curator since February 1, 1949. Dr. Schultz published three papers, one as a joint author, and, with Herbert R. Axelrod, a “Handbook of Tropical Aquarium Fishes.” Dr. Schultz also has in publication two revisions, one dealing with the parrotfishes of the world, family Scaridae, the other with the frogfishes, family Antennarlidae. In progress is a study of the fossil fish remains in Calvert
Cliffs, Md.

<<<Page: 54>>>

Dr. Lachner published a paper on the berycoid fish family Polymixiidae and submitted for publication “A Revision of the Shark-suckers, Family Echeneidae.” Still in progress is his study of “The Family Gobiidae of the Marshall and Marianas Islands.” Dr. Lachner left for Europe on a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship on March 12, 1956, to study types and other specimens in the museums of western Europe.
Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aide, completed his revision of the eels, genus Conger, of the world, and undertook the description of three new South American fishes.
Insects.—Curator J. F. Gates Clarke completed the text of volume 3 of his “Catalogue of the Type specimens of Microlepidoptera in the British Museum (Natural History) described by Edward Meyrick,” consisting of nearly 600 pages of manuscript and 300 plates. A grant-in-aid from the American Philosophical Society enabled Dr. Clarke, during June, July, and August 1955, to engage in field work in the northwestern United States, where he sought Microlepidoptera attached to plants of the family Umbelliferae. During March and April 1956 he participated in the Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition to the West Indies.
Associate Curator William D. Field completed a revision of the genera Hypsochila, Phulia, and Piercolias in the family Pieridae for publication in Acta Zoologica Lilloana (Argentina). He is now engaged in the preparation of two other reports: “A revision of the genus Baltia” and “A revision of the subgenus Calycopis of the genus Thecla.”
Associate Curator O. L. Cartwright continued his researches on the scarabaeid beetles of the genus Ataenius inhabiting the western hemisphere, and also undertook the study of the scarabaeid genus Onthophagus,; members of both of these genera are suspected of being the intermediate hosts of parasites of domestic animals. His other papers in progress are “The Scarabaeidae of Micronesia” and “Scarabaeidae of Bimini.” In furtherance of his studies on the scarabaeid beetle genus Ataenius, Cartwright obtained a grant-in-aid from the American Philosophical Society which made it possible for him to leave Washington May 25, 1956, to collect needed additional material in the southwestern United States.
Marine Invertebrates.—Curator Fenner A. Chace, Jr., completed his report on porcellanid crabs of West Africa and resumed research on the coral crabs of the genus 7’rapezia, begun in 1947.
On March 1, 1956, Curator Fenner A. Chace, Jr., and Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, the head curator of zoology, left Washington on the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition which was made possible by the special fund generously set up for it by Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin, of Wilmington, Del. The party, which was led by Mr.

<<<Page: 55>>>

Bredin, also included Dr. Albert C. Smith, curator of phanerogams. It sailed from Trinidad on the 86-foot schooner /’reelance on March 12 and visited Grenada, Carriacou, Union, Tobaco Cays, Mustique, Bequia, St. Lucia, Martinique, and Dominica in the Windward Islands, where Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator of insects, jomed the expedition; Guadeloupe, Antigua, Barbuda, Redonda, Nevis, and St. Christopher in the Leeward Islands; and Virgin Gorda, Tortola, and St. Croix in the Virgin Islands, arriving at St. Croix on April 18 and returning to Washington on May 1. Mr. Bredin left the expedition at Martinique on March 22, 1956. His place for the last 2 weeks of the cruise was taken by his brother-in-law, Mr. Ernest N. May, who had made possible the Smithsonian-May Expedition of 19387 to the Bahamas and to St. Vincent. The objective of the present expedition was the acquisition of marine, entomological, and botanical collections at some of the less frequently visited islands along the eastern boundary of the Caribbean Sea.
Associate Curator Frederick M. Bayer nearly completed the manuscript for a handbook of the shallow-water octocorals of the West Indies and is collaborating with Dr. Robert R. Harry on a report on an ecological resurvey of Iwayama Bay, Palau Islands. On June 21, 1955, he left Washington for the Palau Islands as a member of a field team sponsored jointly by the Office of Naval Research, the Pacific Science Board of the National Research Council, the George Vanderbilt Foundation of Stanford University, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Smithsonian Institution. The party arrived at Koror on June 30 and spent the months of July, August, and October conducting field studies in the area.
In September, Mr. Bayer conferred with Japanese biologists who had been associated with the Palao Tropical Biological Station before the war, visiting such institutions as the Tokai Regional Fisheries Laboratory, the Zoological Laboratory of Tokyo University, and the Research Institute for Natural Resources, all in Tokyo; the Misaki Marine Biological Station near Misaki; the Seto Marine Biological Laboratory at Shirahama; and the Kyoto University Fisheries Laboratory at Maizuru. The purpose of these visits was to learn of research, both published and unpublished, carried on in the Palaus and to trace biological collections obtained in those islands before the war. One of the most important aspects of his fieldwork was a resurvey of the fauna of Iwayama Bay, a region that had been intensively studied 20 years earlier by members of the Japanese Palao Tropical Biological Station. Considerable time was devoted to investigations of animals associated with certain crinoids, gorgonian corals, sea anemones, and other coelenterates on coral reefs and in other marine habitats of the Palau Archipelago. The party left

<<<Page: 56>>>

Koror on November 15, and Mr. Bayer returned to Washington on November 24, 1955.
Associate Curator Thomas EK. Bowman completed and has awaiting publication four manuscripts describing a new species of the mysidacean crustacean M/ysidopsis from the southeastern United States; on a new species of the isopod crustacean Bopyrella from Venezuela ; in collaboration with Dr. Abraham Fleminger, a new species of the copepod crustacean Candacia from the North Atlantic; and, with Dr. Robert J. Menzies, an emended description and generic reassignment of a perplexing isopod. In addition, Dr. Bowman is preparing reports on the calanoid copepods collected by the crew of the research vessel Theodore N. Gill, of the Fish and Wildlife Service, off the southeastern United States and on a small collection of isopod parasites of fishes from Venezuela.
Associate Curator Charles E. Cutress continued three studies which were in progress when he joined the staff in January 1956: the sea anemones of the orders Actiniaria, Corallimorpharia, and Ceriantharia of the Hawaiian Islands; the sea anemones of the Marshall and Gilbert Islands; and the sea anemones of Samoa and Tahiti.
Clarence R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, completed three manuscripts : on the amphipod crustaceans Hurythenes gryllus and Katius obesus; on some North Pacific amphipods with notes on Stilipes distincta; and on two new lysianassid amphipods from the east coast of the United States.
Dr. J. Percy Moore, collaborator, completed a manuscript on the leeches of Natal, South Africa, and is continuing his studies of other leeches.
Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea, continued to compile and interpret distribution records for her monograph of the freshwater calanoid copepods. She completed 2 manuscripts on calanoid copepods and 3 on harpacticoid copepods; the latter represent the first installments of a series Mrs. Wilson is preparing on North American harpacticoids.
Miss Ailsa M. Clark of the British Museum (Natural History) has generously agreed to prepare for publication the manuscript by the late Austin H. Clark comprising the fifth and final part (Order Macrophreata) of the first volume of “A Monograph of the Existing Crinoids” (U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 82). The manuscript is now in her hands, and the work should be completed sometime in the coming year.
During the year, 24 specialists in other institutions undertook to identify material of various groups of invertebrates, for most of which there are no specialists on the Museum staff. Of the 30 shipments, involving more than 1,944 specimens, sent to these unofficial collaborators during the year, 13, including more than 407 specimens,

<<<Page: 57>>>

have already been returned. The specialists rendering these gratuitous ‘services and the groups on which they work are:
Dr. A. H. Banner: Snapping shrimps.
Dr. A. Weir Bell: Oligochaete worms.
Dr. Robert Bieri: Chaetognaths.
Dr. E. L. Bousfield: Amphipod crustaceans.
Dr. Hlizabeth Deichmann: Holothurjans.
Dr. Ralph W. Dexter: Branchiopod crustaceans.
Dr. P. Fauvel: Polychaete worms. Dr. Abraham Fleminger : Copepod crustaceans.
Dr. Dora P. Henry : Barnacles.
Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.: Crayfishes.
. L. B. Holthuis: Shrimps.
. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms.
r. Paul L. Ilig: Copepod crustaceans.
Mr. Allen McIntosh: Harthworm parasites.
Dr. J. G. Mackin: Ispopod crustaceans.
Dr. Milton A. Miller: Isopod crustaceans.
Dr. Marian H. Pettibone: Polychaete worms.
Dr. G. EH. Gates: Earthworms.
Dr. Olga Hartman: Polychaete worms. Dr. Willard D. Hartman: Sponges. Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth: Pyenogonids.
Mollusks.—A_ paper by Curator Harald A. Rehder, on the marine genus Z'urcicula, was published during the year; otherwise he has devoted such research time as was available to the manuscript he is preparing on the superfamily Pyramidellacea for the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology.
Associate Curator Joseph P. E. Morrison continued his studies on the families Ellobiidae and Hydrobiidae, emphasizing their ecology. He also gave further attention to the brackish water representatives of other families especially the Mactridae.
William B. Marshall, assistant curator in the division of mollusks until his retirement in 1934, and Smithsonian Institution associate in zoology since May 1, 1934, died in Washington, D. C., on December 18, 1955, at the age of 91.
Research by visiting investigators.—In addition to investigators from Federal agencies located in the Washington area, more than 216 (as compared with 180 last year) professional biologists and students interested in some phase of systematics or some group of animals, paid one or more visits to the Museum examining specimens, reference works, or in consultation with members of the staff. Foreign scientists, who pursued investigations in the department of zoology and their special field of interest, included:
Dr. EH. Lowe Pierce: Chaetognaths.
Dr. Willis L. Tressler: Ostracod crustaceans.
Dr. Fred C. Ziesenhenne: Echinoderms.
Dr. Kamal Wassif, Ein Shams Univer-| Dr. Jorge A. Ibarra, Director, Museo
sity, Abbassiah (Cairo), WUgypt: Nacional de Historia Natural, GuateMammals of Egypt and adjacent mala City: Herpetology of Guateareas. mala.
Dr. William J. L. Sladen, Falkland Islands, Dependencies Survey; Penguins.
Dr. and Mrs. Juan A. Rivero, University of Puerto Rico, Mayagiiez: Frogs of Venezuela.

<<<Page: 58>>>

Miss Vicki Mares, Chiapas, México: Publications on Mexican reptiles and amphibians.
J. B. Mandaville, Arabian-American Oil Co., Saudi Arabia: Arabian herpetology.
Dr. Julio Berdequé, Amazonas 26-6, México, D. F.: Ichthyological publieations and bibliography.
Dr. Peter Dohrn, Director of Zoological Station, Naples, Italy: Methods in use in division of fishes.
P. S. Mokerji, Surendranatta College, Caleutta University, India: Methods in use in division of fishes.
Horacio Rosa, Jr., FAO, Santiago, Chile: Preparation of volume on fishes of Chile.
Gerald W. Teague, Montevideo, Uruguay: Triglid fishes.
Dr. Parmenio Yanez, Director of Marine Biology, University of Chile, Vifla del Mar, Chile: Chilean fishes and ichthyological references.
Dr. Peter Wygodzinsky, University of Argentina, Tucuman: Types of Reduviidae.
Irving Fox, University of Puerto Rico, San Juan, P. R.: Culicoides (Diptera).
L. M. Chilson, Foreign Plant Quarantine, Honolulu, Hawaii: Lepidopterous larvae.
W. R. M. Mason, Canadian National Museum, Ottawa, Canada: Ichneumonidae and Braconidae (Hymenoptera).
Dr. J. J. Murayama, Yamaguchi University, Yamaguchi, Japan; Scolytidae (Coleoptera).
James G. Chillcott, Canadian Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada: Types and species of flies of the genus Faunia (Diptera).
Dr. Charles Chia-Chu Tao, Taiwan Agricultural Research Institute, Taipei, Taiwan: Scale parasites.
BE. F. Riek, Commonwealth Science and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia: Chalcids (Hy-
menoptera).
Dr. D. A. Chant, Canadian Department Agriculture, Belleville, Ontario: Mites.
Cc. D. F. Miller, Canadian Department Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada: Vespidae-Formicidae (Hymenoptera).
Gordon F. Bennett, Ontario Research Foundation, Toronto, Canada: Protocalliphora (Diptera).
Thomas Loeber, Djakarta, Indonesia: Anopheline types (Diptera).
Miss Margaret Rae Mackay, Canadian Department Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada: Lepidopterous larvae.
Dr. Bruno Conde, University of Nancy, Nancy, France: Cave insects.
Dr. Pierre Drach, Station Biologique, Roscoff, France: Oyxstome crabs. Dr. Alfredo de la Torre, Mantanzas, Cuba: Recent and fossil mollusks of
Cuba and the West Indies.
Botany
Phanerogams.—Curator A. C. Smith, in continuation of his studies of Pacific plants, progressed in the identification of the Fijian specimens collected by him in 1953. He prepared and submitted for publication two papers in his series on South American plants and, at the request of the editor of the A. I. B. S. Bulletin, prepared for publication a discussion of the herbaria of the United States. As president of the American Society of Plant Taxonomists he addressed the September meeting of the society at East Lansing, Michigan. Dr. Smith accompanied the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition, and made botanical collections on the islands of Trinidad, Grenada, several of the Grenadines, St. Lucia, Dominica, Guadeloupe, Antigua, Bar-
396826—56——4

<<<Page: 59>>>

buda, Nevis, and Virgin Gorda. Although time was very limited for botanizing on each island, 619 numbers and 4,020 botanical specimens were assembled.
Dr. Lyman B. Smith, associate curator, completed a manuscript on the Bromeliaceae for the Flora of Surinam, concerned with 48 species, of which 4 are new; he also prepared and submitted for publication descriptions of 61 new species of Bromeliaceae from the spectacular flora of the Guayana Highland, which is being surveyed by Dr. Bassett Maguire and his colleagues at the New York Botanical Garden. A manuscript discussing the Bromeliaceae of Colombia (more than 360 species) has been nearly completed, and preliminary work has been started on a study of the Euphorbiaceae of the Brazilian state of Santa Catarina. With Dr. R. J. Downs, Dr. Smith prepared a manuscript on the Santa Catarina species of Myrsinaceae which will be published in Brazil.
Associate Curator E. H. Walker canted his studies of the flora of Okinawa and the southern Ryukyus. He published a systematic treatment of the Myrsinaceae of that region, and his manuscript of the Flora of Okinawa has progressed through the monocotyledons and into the dicotyledons as far as the Geraniaceae; the section of the Flora dealing with ferns is nearly completed. A study of the Myrsinaceae of Taiwan was forwarded by examination of specimens of that family sent on loan by the two important herbaria of Taiwan.
Associate Curator E. C. Leonard completed his comprehensive revision of the Acanthaceae of Colombia, of which the third and final part is now in press; this part contains, in addition to treatments of the concluding genera, a supplement discussing recently examined specimens and describing and illustrating an additional 26 new species. A study of the Acanthaceae of Argentina is in progress.
Dr. Velva E. Rudd, associate curator, essentially completed her revision of the genus Chaetocalyz, which will form the third part of a series on the subtribe Aeschynomeninae of the family Leguminosae. Work on the remaining one or two papers which will complete the series is being undertaken.
Mr. E. P. Killip, research associate, continued his collecting of plants for the division on the Isle of Pines, Cuba, and in southern Florida.
Grasses.—Curator Jason R. Swallen completed a study of the grasses of the Guayana Highland, Venezuela, based on material obtained primarily by Dr. Bassett Maguire of the New York Botanical Garden and Dr. Julian A. Steyermark of the Chicago Natural History Museum. Especially noteworthy in the collection were 17 new species of Myriocladus, an endemic genus of bamboo described in 1951. A short paper, “Notes on Central American Grasses 1,” based on

<<<Page: 60>>>

the author’s collections in Honduras, was published. Studies on the grasses of southern Brazil were continued.
Associate Curator Ernest R. Sohns published two papers, the first (jointly with Jason R. Swallen) on grasses collected in Ecuador by Dr. W. H. Camp, and the second on a rare endemic genus, Calamochloa, in México. The plants collected in 1955 in Chiapas near Lake Miramar, México, were identified and the account is now in press in YAN, the official organ of El Centro de Investigaciones Antropol6gicas de México. Nine new grasses were described in the Andropogoneae and Paniceae from collections made by Dr. Bassett Maguire and collaborators in Venezuela. Besides these activities, research was continued on the genus Andropogon of México in particular, and on the grasses of México in general.
Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, continued editing and verifying the index to grass species. Typing of the cards has proceeded rapidly.
Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, was commissioned by the Maria Moors Cabot Foundation of Harvard University to make a survey of what is known about bamboo in order to get a perspective on the potentialites of these plants as a source of industrially important raw materials, such as cellulose. The assembling and processing of literature concerning the taxonomy of the bamboos continued under a National Science Foundation grant. Four papers were completed under the auspices of the United States Department of Agriculture: “An Illustrated Field Manual of 24 Species and 10 Cultivars of the Genus Phyllostachys under Cultivation in the United States,” “Bamboo in the Economy of Oriental Peoples,” “Prospects Are Promising for Bamboo Culture in the South Pacific,” and “New Species in the Bamboo Genus Phyllostachys and Some Nomenclatural Notes.”
Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton spent two weeks during August 1955 collecting in the Sawtooth Wilderness Area, in the Sawtooth Mountains, Idaho. The trip was by horseback, which enabled him to reach many isolated areas; the collections made totaled over a thousand specimens. On December 28, 1955, he left for Cuba, and spent about 10 weeks on this botanically interesting island collecting specimens for the National Herbarium. He had with him his comprehensive manuscript on the Gesneriaceae of Cuba, and especial attention was given to this group of flowering plants; he was able to locate and study in the field over half the Cuban species of this family, many of which are quite rare and local. This field work was very much facilitated by help from the Estacién Experimental Agronémica (Santiago de las Vegas), which served as his headquarters, the Colegio de la Salle (Havana), the United States Naval Base (Guantanamo Bay), the Harvard Botanical Garden (Soledad), Sr. M. Lopez Figueiras

<<<Page: 61>>>

(Santiago de Cuba), and Sra. Hermelia Casas de Almeida (Santiago de Cuba).
Cryptogams.—Associate Curator Paul Conger continued his monographic study of the diatom genus Grammatophora and his studies of the diatom flora and ecology of Chincoteague Bay, Maryland.
Research by visiting investigators.—The Smithsonian Institution received a grant from the National Science Foundation on behalf of Dr. José Cuatrecasas, who since August has been a resident investigator and has continued his detailed studies of the flora of Colombia. Father Raulino Reitz, of the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil, completed his work on the flora of Santa Catarina, and returned to Brazil in September 1955. Dr. J. Murca Pires, of the Instituto Agronomico do Norte, Belém, Brazil, spent several months studying the collections in connection with his research on the Amazonian flora. Mr. George Black, also of the Instituto Agronomico do Norte, returned in October 1955 to complete his monograph of Axvonopus, an important tropical genus of grasses. Dr. and Mrs. Leandro Aristeguieta, of the Instituto Botanico, Caracas, Venezuela, spent several weeks examining material of Venezuelan Compositae in connection with a new flora of that country. Dr. I. D. Clement, of the Atkins Garden and Research Laboratories, Cienfuegos, Cuba, continued his studies of the genus Sida. Dr. Kittie F. Parker, formerly of the University of Arizona, carried on her research of the western flora, especially Compositae. Dr. Rogers McVaugh, of the University of Michigan, utilized the herbarium materials to complete his comprehensive study of the Myrtaceae of Peri. Dr. Marshall C. Johnson, of the University of Texas, carried on research in the genus Dissodia over an extended period.
Other visitors who consulted the collections briefly were Brother Alain, Colegio de la Salle, Havana, Cuba; R. T. Clausen, Cornell University ; George Hiten, F. G. Meyer, and George B. Van Schaack, Missouri Botanical Garden; L. A. Garay, University of Toronto; Mrs. Helen Allison, University of Minnesota; and Elizabeth McClintock, California Academy of Sciences. Almost 700 persons visited the department seeking various kinds of scientific information. Staff members of other Government agencies, particularly the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture, continued to consult the collections regularly in connection with their work.
Geology
Late in May the Department of Geology and the Museum were saddened by the sudden death of Head Curator W. F. Foshag. His death, May 21, 1956, deprived the Nation of one of its foremost mineralogists, a man unusually skilled in identification of minerals and one who

<<<Page: 62>>>

had an exceptionally wide knowledge of the field. Dr. Foshag came to the National Museum in 1919 as assistant curator of mineralogy and over the years advanced to the position of head curator of geology, to which he was appointed in 1948. Under him, the collection of minerals grew in quality and specific representation, so that today it is nowhere exceeded in these respects. Largely through his influence the generous and useful Roebling and Canfield bequests came to the Smithsonian Institution in 1926.
Mineralogy and Petrology.—Dr. William F. Foshag’s important description (with J. Gonzalez) of the famous Mexican volcano Paricutin was published during the year. His chemical studies on the fumarolic gases, and other phases of the volcano’s activities, were interrupted by his untimely death. He had, however, prepared manuscript on these phases and had recognized some new minerals in the sublimates. During the year Dr. Foshag served his second term as president of the Section of Volcanology, Geochemistry and Petrology of the American Geophysical Union.
Associate Curator E. P. Henderson continued his study of the chemical composition, metallographic structure, and accessory minerals of the iron meteorites. In continuation of these studies, Henderson and Frank E. Holden conferred with colleagues and examined meteorite collections at the University of New Mexico; University of Arizona; Fort Hayes State College, Hayes, Kans.; University of Alabama; and the American Meteorite Museum, Sedona, Ariz. Also examined were private collections of H. L. Allan, Trinidad, Colorado; H. O. Stockwell, Hutchinson, Kans.; and Oscar Monnig, Fort Worth, Tex.
Associate Curator George S. Switzer completed his work on the origin of the ore-forming solutions of the Iron Springs district, Utah, and submitted the manuscript to the United States Geological Survey. He also completed a description of paradamite, a new zinc arsenate from México. Work was continued at an accelerated pace on a longterm research project involving a detailed study of the sulfate minerals. Dr. Switzer prepares, annually, a review of the diamond industry, widely used by government agencies, commercial organizations, and others interested in the many phases of the diamond industry. During the year, Dr. Switzer made a trip to San Francisco to view the John B. Jago mineral collection, and to Harvard and Yale Universities to confer with colleagues.
Mr. Frank L. Hess, honorary custodian of rare metals and rare earths in the division of mineralogy and petrology since December 11, 1917, died August 29, 1955, in Washington, D. C., at the age of 83. Prior to 1925 Mr. Hess had been employed by the Geological Survey, and from that time until his retirement in 1944, by the Bureau of Mines.

<<<Page: 63>>>

Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany.—Curator G. A. Cooper completed his paper on the Permian of central Oregon, and also a smaller paper on Tertiary brachiopods from Okinawa. His paper on the revision of the Productoidea, in collaboration with Dr. H. M. Muir-Wood of the British Museum, was presented for publication to the Geological Society of America in February. Dr. Cooper is still sorting silicified Permian fossils from the Glass Mountains, Texas, but anticipates that this will be finished in another year. The sorted collection now numbers 300 drawers. He also prepared, photographed, and took notes on the King types from the Permian of the Glass Mountains, an undertaking requiring more than 3 months.
Dr. Cooper and Museum Aide R. J. Main left Washington in early August 1955, proceeding to central and eastern Oklahoma to collect Mississippian and Pennsylvanian fossils. From there they went to southwestern Missouri to collect Mississippian fossils and then on to Kansas and Nebraska for Pennsylvanian and Permian fossils. On the return to Washington they made a stop in northern Arkansas to collect some unusual Mississippian brachiopods. The party returned to Washington about mid-September. Many specimens hitherto not represented in the collection were found.
In early May 1956, Dr. Cooper, with three young men from the Geological Survey, visited Highland Mills, N. Y., for several days to collect the unusual early Devonian faunas from sandstones just east of the village.
Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and his collaborator, Dr. Helen Tappan Loeblich, hope to complete early in 1957 their classification of the smaller Foraminifera for the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology. In collaboration with Dr. Hans Bolli, Trinidad Leaseholds, Ltd., they completed an important paper on the principal problems connected with the study of planktonic Foraminifera. These Foraminifera, as floaters, are widely distributed by ocean currents, a fact that makes them an ideal age marker when found as a fossil. This paper is a preliminary to the study of the planktonic Foraminifera of the world, which Dr. Loeblich is starting with the financial support of the Humble Oil & Refining Co., the Carter Oil Co., and the California Research Corp. He is also engaged in a study of the Recent Foraminifera of Ifaluk Atoll, Caroline Islands, Pacific Ocean. This study is being supported by the National Science Foundation.
In late April 1956, Dr. Loeblich, with Dr. Norman Sohl of the Geological Survey, went to Vincentown, N. J., to collect samples of Foraminifera from the Vincentown formation and associated strata.
Associate Curator David Nicol is working on pelecypods collected by him from the Cretaceous (Glen Rose) formation in central Texas. The collection is a large one, requiring considerable preparation.

<<<Page: 64>>>

Late in July and early in August 1955, Dr. Nicol and R. J. Main traveled to central Texas, in the vicinity of Burnet, to collect pelecypods and samples for Foraminifera from the Cretaceous (Glen Rose) formation.
Dr. R. S. Bassler, research associate in paleontology, continues his studies of Ordovician cystoids.
Research Associate J. Brookes Knight, in collaboration with Dr. Ellis Yochelson, of the Geological Survey, and Dr. Roger Batten, of the University of Wisconsin, completed his two sections of the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology: The Paleozoic Gastropoda, and a shorter contribution on the Monoplacophora.
Vertebrate Paleontology.—Curator C. L. Gazin has completed study of two Paleocene mammalian faunas, one of Clarkforkian age from the Almy formation in western Wyoming and the other of Tiffanian age from beds believed to be the Evanston formation in the Fossil Basin of southwestern Wyoming. Both of these were characterized by a surprisingly prominent representation of early primate forms. He also completed a study of the upper Eocene mammalian materials secured from the Badwater area in the northern part of the Wind River Basin of Wyoming. The Badwater collections came from the Tepee Trail formation and form one of the more significant representations of upper Kocene life outside the Uinta Basin of Utah. The research of Dr. Gazin also included a beginning on the study of the materials secured from Pleistocene deposits associated with springs in Panama. This concerns principally the rather extensive remains of the giant ground sloth Hremotherium, a close relative of the well-known Megatherium of South America. Study of this material, together with an account of the expedition, is being made with a view toward publication in the Appendix of the Smithsonian Annual Report.
In connection with his research, in order to compare and study materials in the collections, Dr. Gazin in the fall and spring of this year visited Princeton’s department of geology, Yale Peabody Museum, and The American Museum of Natural History. The curator also studied in some detail the Eocene mammalian collection from Sespe formation and from the Poway conglomerate at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. During the year he continued to serve as chairman of the Eocene subcommittee of the Committee of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology, preparing a new “Nomenclature and Correlation of North American Continental Tertiary.” The results of this cooperative project, which have been accumulating for several years, are to be published by the Geological Society of America as a memoir. Also this year, the curator was appointed a director of the American Geological Institute, representing the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology.

<<<Page: 65>>>

Associate Curator D. H. Dunkle, by the chemical etching method, prepared specimens pertinent to his major research project, the Mesozoic origins of the teleostean orders of fishes. An excellent series of 5 skulls and body parts of the Upper Jurassic fish Luisichthys, from Cuba, have been exposed in minute osteological detail and together with a serially sectioned skull of the same form previously reported are serving as the basis of a complete morphological description. The etching of specimens from the late Albian Mowry formation of northern Wyoming has also progressed, with emphasis on the enchodontid materials. A report on the first lower Permian occurrence of an acanthodian fish from North America, in collaboration with the specimen’s discoverer Dr. Sergius Mamay of the Geological Survey, was completed, as well as the manuscript for a semipopular Smithsonian Institution publication on dinosaurs.
Associate Curator Dunkle and Exhibits Worker G. D. Guadagni continued through July 1955 the search for fossil fish in the Cretaceous chalk beds of western Kansas, begun in May of that year. Accompanied by Exhibits Specialist F. L. Pearce, another month during the fall was spent in Oklahoma and Texas seeking, by exchange and fieldwork, certain Permian and Cretaceous reptiles and Cretaceous fish. Dr. Dunkle also visited the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, where exhibit specimens of the Upper Devonian arthrodire Dinichthys and the primitive pleuropterygian shark Cladoselache were secured by exchange, and in May and June 1956 collected Lower and Upper Devonian and Lower Mississippian fishes in Quebec and New Brunswick. Dr. Dunkle continued to serve as Chairman of the Committee for Evaluation of Post-Doctoral Fellowships in Earth Sciences, National Science Foundation.
Kngineering and Industries
Engineering.—Curator R. P. Multhauf continued the preparation of a catalog of the metrology collection. A catalog of the instruments for astronomy, geodesy, and surveying will be completed first. He has in preparation a booklet on the power hall exhibit, which is to open to the public in the fall of 1956, and submitted for publication a short paper on early metallurgical chemistry. A catalog of the phonograph collection has been undertaken by Dr. Multhauf and Leslie J. Newville, and a checklist of American instrument makers is being prepared under his supervision by Mrs. Mary W. Phillips. Mrs. Phillips is also transferring to a card file a notebook record of instrument makers throughout the world. These last two projects were begun by Frank A. Taylor. In March and April 1956, Dr. Multhauf visited scientific and technical museums in France, Italy, Germany,

<<<Page: 66>>>

Austria, Sweden, Holland, and England in connection with the planning for the Museum of History and Technology.
Associate Curator S. H. Oliver revised his catalog of the automobile and motorcycle collection, which is being reprinted. His bulletin on the first quarter century of steam locomotives in North America is scheduled for publication in August 1956. A catalog of the American section of the watercraft collection is being prepared for the division of engineering by Howard I. Chapelle.
Crafts and Industries.—Assistant Curator Grace L. Rogers continued her study of the Scholfield wool-carding machine; revised her manuscript on the history of the sewing machine; and conducted extensive research on the power loom invented by Edmund Cartwright, a model of which will be built for the new textile exhibit hall.
The investigation by Curator W. N. Watkins of woods used in old and rare furniture to determine their origins was confined largely to supplying authentic samples of the woods in question to The Henry Francis Du Pont Winterthur Museum which is pursuing a somewhat parallel study.
Graphic Arts.—Work was continued by Curator Jacob Kainen on a study of the color prints of John Baptist Jackson, whose technical innovations and artistic worth have been in dispute for over two centuries. This study, based on new evidence, will attempt an objective appraisal of Jackson’s contributions and will also provide a complete descriptive catalog of his work to replace the incomplete standard catalog published in 1856. Mr. Kainen received a research grant from the American Philosophical Society to gather additional data on Jackson in England and France during the fall of 1956.
Mr. Kainen continued research on the origins and development of photomechanical processes. This work is expected to establish a basis for dating early printed pictures and to provide a single reference work for the diverse and complicated history of halftone printing. It has become apparent that probably the best representation of early halftones extant are in the national collection.
Associate Curator Alexander J. Wedderburn continued his longrange project on the history of the camera. Because of the pressure of exhibition planning, progress on this study was limited to revisions made in previously compiled data. The objective of this project is to produce a documented history of the mechanical development of the camera from its origin in the camera obscura to the modern instrument. Mr. Wedderburn visited the George Eastman House, Rochester, N. Y., to inspect and select material which is to be presented to the Museum, and also visited the American Museum of Photography to study their collections and exhibition techniques.
Medicine and Public Health.—Curator George Griffenhagen completed his account of the historical evolution of pharmacy museums,

<<<Page: 67>>>

an account which includes a history of the division of medicine and public health of the U. S. National Museum, a review of the types, scope, and aims of pharmacy museums, and a bibliography. His study of the history and evolution of such pharmaceutical equipment as the mortar and pestle, pharmaceutical balance, pharmaceutical weight, pill tile, spatula, pill machine, and suppository mold, has led to the publication of a series of articles entitled “Tools of the Apothecary” in the Journal of American Pharmaceutical Association, Practical Pharmacy Edition. In cooperation with the American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, a 35-mm. slide set and mimeographed lecture to accompany it, was prepared by Mr. Griffenhagen. A manuscript, “The Ceramic Apothecary Jar, a Brief Evaluation,” has been accepted for publication.
During the year Curator Griffenhagen was reelected Secretary of the Section on Historical Pharmacy of the American Pharmaceutical Association, a council member of the American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, and a member of the Board of Managers of the Friends of Historical Pharmacy. He served as the official representative of the American Institute of the History of Pharmacy to the National Archives and to the American Association of the History of Medicine. He assisted the Medical Division of Sharp & Dohme in documenting a near-point vision tester preserved in the Museum of the Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, and prepared a descriptive brochure for distribution with a reproduction of this device. Mr. Griffenhagen also prepared a series of articles on the history of California pharmacy which appeared in the January to May issues of the Northern California Drug News.
Research by visiting investigators.—Miss Matilda Pereira de Sousa, Director, Museo de Arte Moderna, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, visited the division to obtain advice on setting up a print department in this newly constructed institution. Advice was requested with regard to the scope of the collections, storing facilities, and a list of the significant American artists for possible inclusion in the collection. Mr. Kiyoshi Saito, a Japanese artist whose trip in this country is sponsored by the American Council on Education, inquired about American printmaking and print collections. He was particularly interested in the variety of new technical processes being developed by American printmakers. Bradley Smith and Miss Margaret Bassett of Life Magazine studied the library and reference collection of the section of photography to obtain data on Professor Samuel F. B. Morse’s activities in photography for possible use in publication. C. J. Picariello, Army Map Service, Relief Map Division, used resources of the section of photography to determine the possibility of utilizing photographic sculpture processes in the making of relief

<<<Page: 68>>>

maps. Wilbur H. Hunter, Jr., Director of the Peale Museum, visited to obtain information regarding the history of the magic lantern.
Miss Virginia Parslow, crafts expert from The Farmers’ Museum in Cooperstown, N. Y., devoted two days to searching the textile collections to verify the use of draw looms in America in the first quarter of the 19th century.
Assistance was given to Gordon Saltar, The Henry Francis Du Pont Winterthur Museum, in his research, paralleling that of the division, on woods used in old and rare furniture to determine origins. During the year 157 authentic wood samples of the ashes, beeches, birches, maples, oaks, red pines, yellow pines, and other genera having counterparts in Europe, were forwarded to other institutions.
History
Military and Naval History.—Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator, continued his study of the marking and decoration of early cannon, examining the collections in the Bahamas, Haiti, Cuba, New York State, and Canada. Attention was also given to the materials recovered in 1953 and 1954 from the wreck sites of the Spanish treasure fleet of 1733. More recently Mr. Peterson was consulted in regard to the discovery of a treasure of gold and emeralds at a shipwreck site off Bermuda. The materials indicated that the wrecked ship was French with Spanish loot on board and that the ship sank between 1592 and 1610.
Civil History.—Associate Curator Margaret Brown Klapthor continued with the preparation of an annotated catalog of the Washingtor, collections, although the demands of committee work and exhibition planning have hampered substantial progress. In September 1955 Mrs. Klapthor, in response to a request from the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the New York State Historical Association, participated as a member of the faculty in the short course on Historic Housekeeping at Cooperstown, N. Y. This course was offered to help administrators and curators of historic house museums and small local museums solve problems of exhibition, preservation, and interpretation of the objects in their care. Mrs. Klapthor also participated in a panel discussion at “Belle Meade,” an historic house museum in Nashville, Tenn., during the annual meeting in October 1955 of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
Charles G. Dorman, museum aide, spent several days in Philadelphia studying the insurance inventories of the Pennsylvania Company for Insurance of Houses Against Fire (Greentree Insurance Co.), the firm which carried the policy on the Executive Mansion in Philadelphia during the administration of President George Washington, to secure information necessary for the planning of the Martha Washing-

<<<Page: 69>>>

ton room in the First Ladies Hall of the new Museum of History and Technology.
Numismatics.—Associate Curator S. M. Mosher continued his research on the multiple thalers of Brunswick-Luneburg and virtually completed this paper. He also continued his study of American die sinkers and engravers. Mr. Mosher’s death in February 1956 removed one of this country’s leading numismatists. Asa recognized expert on practically all phases of numismatics, Mr. Mosher was for ten years editor of the “Numismatist.”
Philately—Associate Curator Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., continued his research on the United States Revenue essays and proofs, the Old Bay Line, and postal carrying devices. Mr. Bruns was appointed a director of the Philatelic Literature Association, and was awarded a medal by the Collectors Club of New York for his outstanding contributions.
Research by visiting investigators.—Special assistance was given to Peter Floud, keeper of circulation, Victoria and Albert Museum, England, who desired detailed descriptions and photographs of the printed textiles in the Copp collection. Mrs. Curzon Dobell, The McCord Museum, McGill University, Montreal, Canada, studied our methods of storing and preserving objects of a historical nature. Assistance in the use of the divisional libraries and files was given to investigators from the Office of the Chief of Military History, Department of the Army; the Division of Naval History, Department of the Navy; the General Services Administration; the United States Marine Corps; the Naval Historical Foundation; and private organizations. The division of numismatics continued to advise the Bureau of the Mint on matters relating to gold coins and other questions including the history of coinage. The study of the Lowenstein Bolivia airmail collection by Albert F. Kunze resulted in the publication of an article, “The Bolivian Graf Zeppelin Stamps,” in the American Philatelic Congress book (pp. 131-136, October 1955).

<<<Page: 70>>>

Publications
In addition to the Annual Report, the National Museum issued publications based on research in the national collections. Of these, 1 was in the Bulletin series, 1 was a contribution from the United States National Herbarium, and 24 were in the Proceedings series. ‘The titles of these publications are listed below.
At the close of the year 2 Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, 14 Proceedings papers, and the following Bulletins were in press:
Bulletin 185, part 6, Checklist of the Coleopterous Insects of Mexico, Central America, the West Indies, and South America, by Richard Blackwelder.
Bulletin 207, American Moths of the Subfamily Phycitinae, by Carl Heinrich.
Bulletin 209, Nearctiec Wasps of the Subfamilies Pepsinae and Ceropalinae, by Henry Townes.
Bulletin 210, The First Quarter-Century of Steam Locomotives in North America: Remaining Relics and Operable Replicas, with a catalog of Locomotive Models in the United States National Museum, by Smith Hempstone Oliver.
Bulletin 211, Life Histories of North America Blackbirds, Orioles, Tanagers, and Allies: Order Passeriformes: Families Ploceidae, Icteridae, and Thraupidae, by Arthur Cleveland Bent.
Bulletin 212, Checklist of the Millipeds of North America, by Ralph V. Chamberlin and Richard L. Hoffman.
Bulletin 213, Automobiles and Motorcycles in the United States National Museum, by Smith Hempstone Oliver.
Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 141.
These publications, listed on pages 50 to 56, were distributed as follows:
Department Publications Department Publications IANUMTOPOLO SYN. chy see Gy) Saas, tl Sa HLISLOLY. <4. Gh snastyswuseairet octets 8 IB OUAINY Se ees ke a eee Dili LOOOS Ya csc ta sg ellgce nc: Le ie eee ea Oe: Engineering and Industries. . . . 13 ai GCOORVA tr ee cer cen a ae Meal TOtall oc ss ue ates eee LEE
Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1955 through June 1956
The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 1955. Pp. v + 102, illus., January 18, 1956.
Bulletin 208. The honey-guides, by Herbert Friedmann. Pp. vii + 292, figs. 6, pls. 25, October 20, 1955.

<<<Page: 71>>>

FroM VOLUME 32, CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE U. S. NATIONAL HERBARIUM
Part I. The American species of Aeschynomene, by Velva BH. Rudd. Pp. 1-172,
figs. 10, October 13, 1955.
Title page, table of contents and index. Pp. i—v, 529-549, February 13, 1956. From VOLUME 103 OF THE PROCEEDINGS
Title page, table of contents and index. Pp. i-v, 633-667, March 12, 1956. FRoM VOLUME 104 OF THE PROCEEDINGS
3342. Biology and taxonomy of North American beetles of the subfamily Geotrupinae, with revisions of the genera Bolbocerosoma, Eucanthus, Geotrupes, and Peltotrupes (Scarabaeidae), by Henry F. Howden. Pp. 151-319, pls. 1-18, November 21, 1955.
. 3843. Fruit flies of the genus Tomoplagia Coquillett (Diptera, Tephriti-
dae), by Martin L. Aczél. Pp. 321-412, figs. 90-102, pls. 19-26, September 28, 1955.
. 3344. Scarab beetles of the genus Psammodius in the Western Hemisphere,
by O. L. Cartwright. Pp. 413-462, August 24, 1955.
. 3845. A further contribution to the ornithology of northeastern Venezuela,
by Herbert Friedmann and Foster D. Smith, Jr. Pp. 463-524, figs. 103-107, pls. 27-30, December 2, 1955.
. 33846. Modifications of pattern in the aortie arch system of birds and their
phylogenetic significance, by Fred H. Glenny. Pp. 525-621, figs. 108-119, December 16, 1955.
. 33847. Fishes of the family Percophididae from the coasts of eastern United
States and the West Indies, with descriptions of four new species, by Isaac Ginsburg. Pp. 623-639, figs. 120-122, October 13, 1955.
. 3348. Neotropical Miridae, LXV: New genera and species of bugs of the
tribe Termatophylini (Hemiptera: Deraeocorinae), by José C. M. Carvalho. Pp. 641-649, fig. 123, pl. 31, October 27, 1955.
FRoM VOLUME 105 oF THE PROCEEDINGS
3349. Notes on shrimps from the Marshall Islands, by Fenner A. Chace, Jr. Pp. 1-22, figs. 8, August 12, 1955.
3350. Lanternflies of the family Issidae of the Lesser Antilles (Homoptera: Fulgoroidea), by R. G. Fennah. Pp. 23-47, figs. 5, November 23, 1955. 3351. An anatomical study of the peregrine megascolecid earthworm Pheretima hupeiensis in the eastern United States, by William C. Grant, Jr. Pp. 49-63, figs. 4, October 17, 1955.
. 3352. Some polyclad flatworms from Polynesia and Micronesia, by Libbie
H. Hyman. Pp. 65-82, figs. 5, September 6, 1955.
. 3353. Biting lice of the genus Saemundssonia (Mallophaga: Philopteridae)
occurring on terns, by Ronald A. Ward. Pp. 83-100, figs. 1, September 8, 1955.
. 3854. Three Miocene porpoises from the Calvert Cliffs, Maryland, by
Remington Kellogg. Pp. 101-154, figs. 1, pls. 21, December 14, 1955.
. 3355. A review of the New World flies of the genus Conops and allies
(Diptera: Conopidae), by Sidney Camras. Pp. 155-187, September 28, 1955.
. 3856. Populations of the berycoid fish family Polymixiidae, by Ernest A.
Lachner. Pp. 189-206, pls. 1, October 21, 1955.

<<<Page: 72>>>

8357. Contributions to the nomenclature, systematics, and morphology of the Octocorallia, by Frederick M. Bayer. Pp. 207-220, pls. 8, December 21, 1955.
. 8358. Bryozoa of the United States Navy’s 1947-1948 Antarctic Expedition,
I-IV, by Mary D. Rogick. Pp. 221-317, pls. 35, March 13, 1956.
. 8359. Types species of the genera and subgenera of parasitic wasps com-
prising the superfamily Proctotrupoidea (order Hymenoptera), by C. F. W. Meusebeck and Luella M. Walkley. Pp. 319-419, February 16, 1956.
. 93860. The spongilla-flies, with special reference to those of the Western
Hemisphere (Sisyridae, Neuroptera), by Sophy I. Parfin and Ashley B. Gurney. Pp. 421-529, figs. 24, pls. 3, May 16, 1956.
3361. Marine polychaete worms from Labrador, by Marian H. Pettibone. Pp. 531-584, figs. 1, March 29, 1956.
FRoM VOLUME 106 oF THE PROCEEDINGS
No. 3362. Revision of the milliped genus Dizioria (Polydesmida: Xystodes-
midae), by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 1-19, figs. 4, March 29, 1956. 3363. A revision of the flies of the genus Rivellia (Otitidae, Diptera) of America north of México, by Ryoji Namba. Pp. 21-84, figs. 10, June 5, 1956.

<<<Page: 73>>>

Publications by Members of the Staff of the United States National Museum July 1955 through June 1956
Alverson, Franklin G. (See under Menzies, etc.)
Axelrod, Herbert R., and Schultz, Leonard P. Handbook of tropical aquarium fishes, pp. i—xii, 1-718, 640 illus., 178 in color. McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1955.
Bayer, Frederick M. Remarkably pre-
served fossil sea-pens and their Re| ——.
cent counterparts. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 9, pp. 294— | Bruns, Franklin R., Jr.
300, figs. 2, September 1955.
Contributions to the nomencla-
ture, systematics, and morphology of
the Octocorallia. Proc. U. S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 105, No. 8357, pp. 207-220,
pls. 8, December 21, 1955.
Descriptions and redescriptions of the Hawaiian octocorals collected by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross (2. Gorgonacea: Scleraxonia). 95, figs. 11, January 1955.
Benn, James H. A physiographic review of Washington, D. C., with a geologic aspect of government buildings. Lap. Journ., vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 204-212, August 1955.
and Holden, Frank E. Inlaid zodiac. Lap. Journ., vol. 9, No. 6, p. 530, February 1956.
Bowman, Thomas E. The isopod genus Chiridotea Harger, with a description of a new species from brackish waters. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 7, pp. 224-229, figs. 2, July 1955.
A new copepod of the genus Calanus from the northeastern Pacific with notes on Calanus tenii-
Pacific Sci., vol. 10, pp. 67— | ——.
cornis Dana. Pacific Sci., vol. 9, pp. 413-422, figs. 2, October 1955.
A new genus and species of whale-louse (Amphipoda: Cyamidae) from the false killer whale. Bull. Marine Sci. Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 815-820, fig. 1, December 1955.
(See also under Menzies, Robert
J.) The American Philatelic Congress after twenty years. Stamps, vol. 93, No. 1, p. 8, October 1, 1955. The Old Bay Line, oldest steamship company in the United States, Baltimore and Washington to Norfolk. Stamps, vol. 92, No. 10, pp. 346-347, September 3, 1955. Stamps, Postage. Encyclopedia Americana, 1956-57 Hdition. Philately. Encyclopedia Americana, 1956-57 Edition. Philately. Encyclopedia Britannica Book of the Year, 1956. Carriker, M. A., Jr. Studies in Neotropical Mallophaga (xv). The Ischnocera of the Trogonidae. Novedades Colombianas, No. 2, pp. 87—100, illus., June 1, 1955. Studies in Neotropical Mallophaga XII (part 3). Lice of the Tinamous. Bol. Ent. Venezolana, vol. 11, Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 1—28, pls. 6, June 1955.
A corrected list of the Venezuelan Mallophaga published by HE. W. Stafford, 1948. Bol. Hnt. Venezolana, vol. 11, Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 1-24, June 1955.

<<<Page: 74>>>

Cartwright, O.L. Scarab beetles of the genus Psammodius in the Western Hemisphere. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 104, No. 3344, pp. 418-462, August 24, 1955.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr. The future of marine invertebrate systematic research. In Hssays in the Natural Sciences in Honor of Captain Allan Hancock, pp. 9-12, July 1955.
Notes on shrimps from the Marshall Islands. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 105, No. 3349, pp. 1-22, figs. 8, August 12, 1955.
Clarke, J. F. Gates. A new Porphyrosela from Argentina (Lepidoptera : Gracillariidae). Acta Zoologica Lilloana, vol. 13, pp. 69-70, 1955.
A new Acrocercops from Argen-
tina (Lepidoptera: Gracilariidae).
Acta Zoologica Lilloana, vol. 13, pp.
71-72, 1955.
Neotropical moths of the genus
Orthocomotis Dognin (Lepidoptera:
Tortricidae). Trans. Roy. Ent. Soc.
London, vol. 107, pp. 139-167, pls. 5,
1955.
Catalogue of the type specimens of Microlepidoptera in the British Museum (Natural History) described by Edward Meyrick, vol. 2, pp. 1-531, pls. 263, Publ. British Museum (Natural History), 1955.
Clay, William M., and Lachner, E. A. Oceurrence of the lamprey, Ichthyomyzon greeleyi Hubbs and Trautman in Kentucky. Trans. Kentucky Acad. Sci., vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 538-55, 1955.
Cochran, Doris M. Review: The reptile world, by Clifford H. Pope. Atlantie Naturalist, vol. 11, No. 3, p. 145, January—February 1956.
Review: The natural history of North American amphibians and reptiles, by James A. Oliver. Atlantic Naturalist, vol. 11, No. 5, pp. 242-248, May-August, 1956..
Cooper, G. A. New Cretaceous Brachiopoda from Arizona. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 131, No. 4, pp. 1-18, pls. 1-4, 1955.
396826—56——d
A new Upper Canadian fauna from a deep well in Tennessee. Journ. Paleontol., vol. 30, No. 1, pp. 29-34, pl. 5, 1956.
——. Chazyan and related brachiopods. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 127, pts. 1, 2, pp. i-xvi, 1-1245, figs. 1-3, pls. 1-269, 1956.
Deignan, H. G. The Identity of Collocalia maxima Hume. Bull. British Ornith. Club, vol. 75, No. 6, p. 82, September 1, 1955.
The Glossy Starlings (Aplonis)
of Borneo. The Sarawak Museum
Journal, vol. 6, No. 4, “1954,” pp. 129-
Four New Races of Birds from East Asia. Proce. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 68, No. 23, pp. 145-147, October 31, 1955.
The Long-tailed Nightjars of
North Borneo and Palawan. Sara-
wak Museum Journal, vol. 6, No. 5,
“1955,” pp. 314-315.
The races of the swiftlet, Col-
localia brevirostris (McClelland).
Bull. British Ornith. Club, vol. 75,
No. 9, pp. 116-118, December 1, 1955.
The races of the red-capped bab-
bler, Timalia pileata Horsfield. Bull.
British Ornith. Club, vol. 75, No. 9,
pp. 128-130, December 1, 1955.
New races of birds from eastern Asia. Bull. British Ornith. Club, vol. 75, No. 9, p. 180, December 1, 1955.
Dunkle, David H., and Maher, Stuart W. An occurrence of a pleuropterygian shark in the Chattanooga Shale of Tennessee. Journ. Tennessee Acad. Sci., vol. 30, No. 3, p. 1, July 1955.
Evans, Clifford. Filiagdes das culturas arqueolégicas no ‘Territorio do Amapaé. Anais do XXXI Congresso Internacional de Americanistas, Sio Paulo, vol. 2, pp. 801-812, 1955.
—and Meggers, Betty J. Preliminary report on archaeological Investigations in the Guayas Basin, Ecuador. Cuadernos de Historia y Arqueologia, Ano IV, vol. 4, Diciembre de 1954, No. 12, Guayaquil, Ecuador, pp. 1-12, 1955 (also in a Spanish version, pp. 1-18).

<<<Page: 75>>>

Ewers, John C. The North West trade gun. Alberta Historical Review, Spring 1956, vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 1-7, figs. 5, 1956.
New ethnological exhibits, United States National Museum, Washington, D. C. Museum, vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 28-36, 1956.
Fosberg, F. Raymond, and Walker, Egbert H. Third supplement to a preliminary checklist of plants in the Shenandoah National Park. Castanea, vol. 20, No. 2, pp. 61-70, June 1955.
Foshag, William F. Estudios mineralégicos sobre el jade de Guatemala. Antropologia e Historia de Guatemala, vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 3-87, figs. 1-10, January 1954.
——. Jadeite from Manzanal, Guatamala. Amer. Antiq., vol. 21, No. 1, pp. 81-83, July 1955.
ChalchihuitI—A study in jade. Amer. Mineral., vol. 40, Nos. 11-12, pp. 1062-1070, November—December 1955.
—and Gonzalez R., Jenaro. Birth and development of Paricutin Volcano, México. U. S. Geol. Survey, Bull. 965-D, pp. 355-489, pls. 12-51, illus., 1956.
Friedmann, Herbert. Review of “The
Birds of the Sudan.” Auk, vol. 72, pp. 306-807, July 1955. ——. The honey-guides. U. S. Nat.
Mus. Bull. 208, pp. vii + 292, figs. 6, pls. 25, October 20, 1955.
—— and Smith, Foster D., Jr. A further contribution to the ornithology of northeastern Venezuela. Proce. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 104, No. 3345, pp. 463-524, figs. 103-107, pls. 27-30, December 2, 1955.
Recent revisions in classification and their biological significance, in Recent Studies in Avian Biology, University of Illinois Press, pp. 2143, 1955.
—and Kern, Jerome. The problem of cerophagy or wax-eating in the honey-guides. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol. 31, No. 1, pp. 19-30, March 1956.
Gazin, C. Lewis. <A review of the upper Eocene Artiodactyla of North Amer-
ica. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 128, No. 8, pp. 1-96, pls. 1-18, 1955. Paleocene mammalian faunas of the Bison in south-central Wyoming. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 131, No. 6, pp. 1-57, pls. 1-16, 1956.  Soc. Vert. Paleontol. News Bull., No. 45, pp. 7-8, October 1955; No. 46, p. 12, February 1956; No. 47, pp. 12-13, June 1956. Glance, Grace. Slide Mounting of Collembola. Ann. Ent. Soc. Amer., vol. 49, No. 2, pp. 182-138, 1956. Griffenhagen, George B. Collector’s corner. Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical Pharmacy ed.), vol. 16, pp. 402, 504, 540, 600, 662, figs. 7, July—November, 1955; vol. 17, p. 20, January 1956. Tools of the apothecary. 1. The mortar and pestle. Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical Pharmacy ed.), vol. 17, pp. 112-113, figs. 8, February 1956. Also Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. 160, p. 40, April 14, 1956.
Tools of the apothecary. 2. Pharmaceutical balances. Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical Pharmacy ed.), vol. 17, pp. 152-153, figs. 8, March 1956.
Tools of the apothecary. 3. Pharmaceutical weights. Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical Pharmacy ed.), vol. 17, pp. 240-241, figs. 6, April 1956.
The Day-Dunlap 1771 pharmaceutical catalog. Amer. Journ. Pharm., vol. 127, pp. 296-802, figs. 4, September 1955.
California pharmacy (a history in five parts). Northern Calif. Drug News, vol. 23, pp. 8, 10, 12, 14, fig. 1, January 1956; pp. 12-14, fig. 1, February 1956; pp. 8, 10, March 1956; pp. 10-13, April 1956.
Near point vision-tester. Medical Division, Sharp and Dohme, West Point, Pa., pp. 4, 1955.
Evolution of the drug store. American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, Madison, Wis., p. 9, 1955.

<<<Page: 76>>>

Handley, Charles O., Jr. A new species of free-tailed bat (genus Humops) from Brazil. ington, vol. 68, pp. 177-178, December 31, 1955.
The taxonomic status of the bats Corynorhinus phyllotis G. M. Allen and Idionycteris mexicanus Anthony. Proc. Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 69, p. 53, May 21, 1956.
Hoyme, Lucille E. Genetics, physiology and _ phenylthiocarbamide. Journ. Heredity, vol. 46, No. 4, pp. 167-175, July—August, 1955.
Johnson, David H. The incredible kangaroo. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 108, No. 4, pp. 487-500, October, 1955.
—— and Jones, J. Knox, Jr. Three new rodents of the genera Micromys and Apodemus from Korea. Proc. Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 68, pp. 167-174, December 31, 1955.
and Jones, J. Knox, Jr. A new
chipmunk from Korea. Proc. Biol.
Soe. Washington, vol. 68, pp. 175-176,
December 31, 1955.
(See under Jones, J. Knox, Jr.)
Jones, J. Knox, Jr., and Johnson, David H. A new reed vole, genus Microtus, from Korea. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 68, pp. 198-195, December 31, 1955.
(See under Johnson, David H.)
Kainen, Jacob. How mass and plane are used in the arts. Journ. Amer. Assoc. University Women, vol. 49, No. 4, pp. 211-214, illus., May 1956.
Kellogg, Remington. Three Miocene porpoises from the Calvert Cliffs, Maryland. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 105, No. 3354, pp. 101-154, fig. 1, pls. 21, December 14, 1955.
Knight, J. B. New families of Gastropoda. Journ. Wash. Acad. Sci., vol. 46, No. 2, pp. 41-42, 1956.
Lachner, Ernest A. Populations of the beryeoid fish family Polymixiidae. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 105, No. 3356, pp. 189-206, pls. 1, October 21, 1955.
(See Clay and Lachner, 1955.)
Loeblich, A. R., Jr., and Tappan, H. Revision of some Recent Foraminiferal genera. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 128, No. 5, pp. 1-87, pls. 1-4, 1955.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash-| Maxon, William R., and Morton, C. V.
The ferns described by Sessé and Mocinio. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 45, No. 4, pp. 151-156, December 1955.
McClure, F. A. Prospects are promising for bamboo culture in the South Pacific. South Pacific Commission Quarterly, vol. 6, pp. 38-40, January 1956.
New species in the bamboo genus
Phyllostachys and some nomencla-
tural notes. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol.
35, Dp. 180-196, figs. 4, April 1956.
and Kennard, W. C. Propagation of bamboo by whole-culm cuttings. Soe. Hort. Sci., vol. 65, pp. 283-288, June 1955.
——. Bambuseae. In Swallen, Grasses of Guatamala. Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 24, pt. 2, November 1955.
Meggers, Betty J. Filiacdes das culturas arqueologicas na ilha de Marajé. Anais do XXXI Congresso Internacional de Americanistas, Sao Paulo, vol. 2, pp. 818-824, 1955.
—— and Evans, Clifford. Preliminary results of archeological investigations in British Guiana. Timehri: The Journal of the Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society of British Guiana, No. 34, pp. 5-26, September 1955.
Menzies, Robert J.. Bowman, Thomas E., and Alverson, Franklin C. Stud ies of the biology of the fish parasite Livoneca convera Richardson (Crustacea, Isopoda, Cymothoidae). Wasmann Journ. Biol., vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 277-295, figs. 7, 1955.
Metcalf, George. Additional data from the Dodd and Phillips Ranch sites, South Dakota. Amer. Antiq., vol. 21, No. 8, pp. 305-809, January 1956.
Morrison, Joseph P. E. Family relationships of the North American fresh-water mussels. Ann. Rep. Amer. Malacol. Union, 1955, pp. 16-17, December 31, 1955.
Notes on the spiny fresh-water
mussels (Canthyria). Ann. Rep.
Amer. Malacol. Union, 1955, pp. 19—
20, December 31, 1955.

<<<Page: 77>>>

Morrison, Joseph P. KE. What is Helix whitneyi Newcomb? Ann. Rep. Amer. Malacol. Union, 1955, p. 33, December 31, 1955.
How many Syncera species are living in Death Valley? Ann. Rep. Amer. Malacol. Union, 1955, p. 29, December 31, 1955.
Morton, C. V. Notes on Adiantum in Mexico, I. Amer. Fern. Journ., vol. 45, No. 38, pp. 1138-117, September 1955.
The type of Blechnum cartilaginewm. Amer. Fern. Journ., vol. 45, No. 3, pp. 125-126, September 1955. The generic names Jsoloma and Kohleria. The Gloxinian, vol. 5, No. 6, p. 16, May 1956.
and Neidorf, Charles. The Virginia chain-fern. Amer. Fern. Journ., vol. 46, No. 1, pp. 28-80, pl. 2, April 1956. R.)
Newman, M. T. The racial relationships between Polynesians and American Indians. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., n. s., vol. 13, No. 2, p. 386, June 1955 (abstract).
Adaptation of man to cold climates. Evolution, vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 101-105, March 1956.
Nicol, D. Nomenclatural review of the Paleozoic pelecypod family Conoeardiidae. Journ. Paleontol., vol. 29, No. 3, pp. 552-558, 1955.
Parfin, Sophy I. Additional records for Brachypanorpa carolinensis (Banks) (Mecoptera: Parnopidae). Proce. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 57, No. 4, pp. 204-205, 1955.
and Gurney, Ashley B. The spongilla-flies, with special reference to those of the Western Hemisphere. (Sisyridae, Neuroptera). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 105, No. 3360, pp. 421— 529, figs. 24, pls. 3, May 16, 1956.
Peterson, Mendel L. The last cruise of H. M. S. Zoo. Smithsonian Misc. Col., vol. 131, No. 2, publ. 4224, pp. 55, November 23, 1955.
Life, vol. 40, No. 2, pp. 38-46, January 9, 1956. —
Rehder, Harald A. The genus Turcicula Dall. Proc. Malacol. Soe. London, vol. 31, pp. 222-225, pl. 12, December 30, 1955.
Rogers, Grace L. Patriotic printed fabrics, 1876 Centennial prints. Hobbies, vol. 60, No. 5, pp. 52-538, pls. 8, 1955.
—. Peter Stauffer, early 19th-cencentury weaver. Handweaver and Craftsman, vol 7, No. 1, pp. 12-14, 55, pls. 7, 1956.
Rudd, Velva E. The American species of Aeschynomene. Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb., vol. 32, pt. 1, pp. 1-172, figs. 10, October 138, 1955.
Schultz, Leonard P. The amazing new fish called the scarlet characin. Tropical Fish Hobbyist, vol. 4, No. 4, pp. 41-48, 1956.
(See Axelrod and Schultz, 1955.)
—— and Springer, Stewart. Lepidocybium flavobrunneum, a rare gempylid fish new to the fauna of the Gulf of Mexico. Copeia, No. 1, p. 65, 1955.
Setzer, Henry W. Two new jerboas from Egypt. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 68, pp. 183-184, December 31, 1955.
Smith, A. C. Phanerogam genera with distributions terminating in Fiji. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 36, Nos. 2-38, pp. 273-292, June 1955.
Botanical studies in Fiji. Ann.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1954, pp.
305-315, pls. 1-12, October 1955.
Herbaria of the United States.
A. I. B. S. Bulletin, vol. 6, No. 2, pp.
12-15, figs. 2, April 1956.
Studies of South American plants, XVI. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 46, No. 4, pp. 118-115, April 1956.
Smith, Lyman B. Notes on Brazilian Phanerogams. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 45, No. 6, pp. 197-200, figs. 23, June 1955.

<<<Page: 78>>>

——. Notes on Bromeliaceae, VI. Phytologia, vol. 5, No. 7, pp. 281-288, pls. 1-2, September 1955.
The Bromeliaceae of Brazil.
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 126,
No. 1, pp. 1-290, figs. 128, September
1955.
A ginger-like Guzemania from
Venezuela. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 5,
No. 5, pp. 68-69, figs. 1, September—
October, 1955.
Bromeliaceae. In Schultes,
Plantae Columbianae XIII. Bot.
Mus. Leafl. Harvard Univ., vol. 17,
No. 3, pp. 67-77, fig. 1, pls. 19-21,
November 1955.
and Murca Pires, J. An evaluation of Benjaminia Martius ex Benjamin. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 46, No. 3, p. 86, March 1956.
Sohns, Ernest R. Calamochloa: <A Mexican grass. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 46, No. 4, pp. 109-112, figs. 20, April 1956.
—and Swallen, Jason R. Grasses collected in Ecuador by W. H. Camp. Mem. New York Bot. Garden, vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 183-145, fig. 1, 1955.
Stewart, T.D. The significance of postoperative osteitis for the interpretation of pre-Columbian surgical procedures in Peru. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., n. s., vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 385— 886, June 1955 (abstract).
Degree of accuracy in estimates
of chronological age of human skele-
tons. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop.,
n. s., vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 398-399, June
1955 (abstract).
Preliminary bibliography on hu-
man identification, with emphasis on
the anthropological contributions. 20
pp. mimeograph (Compiled with aid
of W. S. Cornwell, O. H. Duggins,
L. E. Hoyme, and M. Trotter).
Description of human remains
(from Midland, Texas). Jn Wendorf,
Fred, Krieger, Alex D., and Albritton,
Claude C., The Midland discovery, pp.
77-90, University of Texas Press,
Austin, 1955.
Physical Anthropology. Hand-
book of Latin American Studies, No.
18 (1952), Univ. Florida Press, pp. 29-33, 1955.
——and Trotter, Mildred. Role of Physical anthropology in the field of human identification. Science, vol. 122, No. 3175, pp. 8838-884, November 4, 1955.
and Walter, H. V. Fluorine analysis of putatively ancient human and animal bones from Confins Cave, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Anais do XXXI Congresso Internacional de Americanistas, SA0 Paulo, vol. 2, pp. 925-937, 1955.
Swallen, Jason R. Grasses of Guatemala. In Flora of Guatemala. Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 24, pt. 2, pp. 1-390, figs. 113, November 1955.
Notes on Central American
grasses I. Ceiba, vol. 4, No. 5, pp. 285—
288, 1955.
(See also under Sohns, Ernest
R.) Switzer, George, and Boucot, Arthur J. The mineral composition of some microfossils. Journ. Paleontol., vol. 29, No. 3, pp. 525-583, May 1955. Star spinel showing four sixrayed stars. Gems and Gemology, vol. 8, No. 6, pp. 163-164, 190, Summer 1955.
Thirtieth annual report on the diamond industry, 1954. Jeweler’s Cireular-Keystone, vol. 125, pp. 15, 1955.
Paradamite, a new zine arsenate from Mexico. Science, vol. 123, No. 3206, p. 1039, June 8, 1956.
Tappan, H. Foraminifera from the arctic slope of Alaska, part 2, Jurassic Foraminifera. U.S. Geol. Surv. Prof. Paper 236—-B, pp. 21-90, pls. 6-28, 1955.
(See under Loeblich, A. R., Jr.)
Walker, Egbert H. The Myrsinaceae of the Ryukyu Islands. Sci. Bull. Univ. Ryukyus, vol. 2, pp. 60—79, figs. 9, 1955.
An American botanist in Japan.
Plant Sci. Bull., vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 4-5,
October 1955.
(See also under Fosberg, F. Ray-
mond.)

<<<Page: 79>>>

Wedderburn, Alexander J. Another Armat intermittent movement. Journ. Soe. Motion Picture and Television Engineers, vol. 64, No. 8, pp. 445446, illus., August 1955.
Wedel, Waldo R., and Kivett, Marvin F. Additional data on the Woodruff ossuary, Kansas. Amer. Antiq., vol. 21, No. 4, pp. 414-416, April 1956.
Wetmore, Alexander. A supposed record of a fossil cormorant. Condor, vol. 57, p. 871, November—December 1955.
Paleontology. Jn Recent advances in avian biology, pp. 44-56, 1955.
A check-list of the fossil and prehistoric birds of North Ameri-
ca and the West Indies. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 131, No. 5, pp. 1-105, January 25, 1956.
—— and Friedmann, H., et al. Thirtieth supplement to the American Ornithologists’ Union Check-list of North American birds. Auk, vol. 72, No. 3, pp. 292-295, July 1955.
Wilson, Mildred Stratton. A new Louisiana copepod related to Diaptomus (Aglaodiaptomus) clavipes Schacht (Copepoda, Calanoida). Tulane Studies Zool., vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 35-47, figs. 9, August 1955.
and Illg, Paul L. The family
Clausiidae (Copepoda, Cyclopoida).
Proc. Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 68,
pp. 129-142, October 1955.

<<<Page: 80>>>

Donors to the National Collections
(Hacept when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance with
law.)
Abbott Fund, W. L., Smithsonian Institution: (Through Robert E. Elbel) 600 mammals and 1,048 birds from Thailand (210892).
Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Ill.: Vi Daylin drops, and Abbott sanitary tablet counting tray (207390).
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.: 3 complete whale skeletons and 1 skull, including 3 type specimens (207833) ; 1,769 phanerogams, 114 grasses, 259 ferns (208723, exchange) ; (through Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry) 6 land mollusks from Nuevo Leon, México (206952, exchange); (through Henry W. Fowler and Dr. H. Steinitz) 15 fishes from the Red Sea (207785).
Ackerman, Jack, Honolulu, T. H.: (Through Col. Hdwin H. Bryan, Jr.) 5 corals from Hawaii (206849).
Acuna, Ing. Julian. (See Hstacién Experimental Agronémica. )
Adamcak, Mrs. Elvi, Fort Myer, Va.: 1 Roman amphora from Aquileia, northern Italy (208045).
Adams, Miss Harriet D., Albany, N. Y.: 1 knitted sisal fiber carrying bag, 1 tubular net for carrying baskets, collected in 1948 from Maya Indians in Guatemala by Dr. Charles C. Adams, father of donor (208318).
Afshar, Dr. Freydoun A., Teheran, Iran: 2 brachiopods from the Cretaceous and Mississippian of Persia (207617, exchange).
Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: Office of Plant and Operations: 2 automatic pistols (2103890). Agricultural Research Service, Animal Disease and Parasite Research Branch: (Through Allen MclIntosh) 7 fresh-water mollusks from Arizona (210095). Hntomology Research
Branch: 56 land snails from Oregon, Pennsylvania, Italy, Hawaiian Islands, Jamaica, Ecuador, Greece, Trinidad, Madeira, British Honduras, México (206582, 207699, 208178, 208344, 208410, 209252, 209485, 209653) ; 8 land snails from Pennsylvania and Italy and 3 copepods (206679) ; 21 land and fresh-water molluks from Honduras, Portugal, EHeuador, Hawaii, California, Tortola and St. Kitts, B. W. I. (207529, 207823) ; 13,048 miscellaneous insects from North America (208713); 7 brackish-water and land snails from Colombia and the Hawaiian Islands (209003, 209891) ; 69,619 miscellaneous insects, world wide (210851) ; (through Mr. Paul W. Oman) 1 fresh-water crab from Africa (202892) ; 28 land snails from Arizona, Kentucky, México, Hawaiian Islands and Italy, and 1 blindsnake from Israel (208017, 209983, 210106, 210416, 210569) ; (through Dr. W. H. Anderson) 5 land snails from Ecuador and Hawaiian Islands (208654). Horticultural Crops Research Branch: 8 phanerogams from South America (208055) ; 240 ferns from Colombia collected by Richard E. Schultes (208181) ; 402 phanerogams and 2 ferns from Perti collected by Dr. W. H. Hodge and Edward Evinger (208868) ; 51 grasses from México collected by H. S. Gentry (209866) ; 783 phanerogams, 111 grasses, 48 ferns, 4 cryptogams (209506, | 210056, 210215, 210726) ; 41 plants from ' México, collected by Dr. Rogers McVaugh (209794) ; 76 phanerogams, 218 grasses, from the United States, collected by Dr. F. J. Hermann et al. (210725) ; (through Dr. F. J. Hermann) 295 plants from Michigan, Illinois, and
| | Nebraska (210058). Forest Service: 22

<<<Page: 81>>>

plants and grasses from New Mexico (204790) ; 230,031 termites from all over the world (207721) ; (through Philip B. Dowden) 204 slides of immature stages of flies from New Haven (206720). Soil Conservation Service: 1 grass from Mississippi and 1 from Texas (208100, 209365).
Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, College Station, Tex.: 32 grasses from Texas (207629) ; (through Prof. Omer H. Sperry) 2 phanerogams (207418).
Akers, W. H., New Orleans, La.: 15 Foraminifera from the Miocene of Louisiana (207847).
Alabama Polytechnic Institute, Auburn, Ala.: (Through Dr. J. S. Dendy) 1,246 fresh-water fishes from Alabama (203441, exchange) ; (through Dr. S. A. Edgar) 17 land snails from Alabama (206090).
Alaska Department of Fisheries, Juneau, Alaska: (Through Dr. Robert R. Parker) 18 barnacles (208288).
Albers, W. L., Austinville, Va.: 12 archaeocyathids from the Lower Cambrian of Austinville, Va. (209957).
Alberta, University of, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada: (Through Prof. R. BE. Folinsbee) 1 slice of meteorite from Edmonton (209828, exchange).
Aleman G., Dr. Cesar. (See Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle.)
Alexander, Frederic C. Jr., Albuquerque, N. Mex.: 23 marine mollusks from near Mazatlan, México (209594).
Alexander, Robert, Washington, D. C.: 1 twined basket from Apache Indians collected in 1880’s (208609).
Algert, E. D., Chula Vista, Calif. : 381 beetles from the United States (210637).
Allard, Gilles, Chibougamanu, Quebee: (Through Hatten Yoder, Jr.) 1 siderite and 1 chloritoid from Siderite Hill, north of Dore Lake, Chibougamanu, Quebee (207805).
Allard, H. A. Arlington, Va.: 56 phanerogams, 16 grasses, 10 cryptogams from Virginia (208336).
Allen, Dr. Newton E. Mrs. Brookie.)
Allen, Robert P., Tavernier, Fla. : Approximately 150 land and fresh-water
(See Blalock,
mollusks and 25 cladocerans from vicinity of Sass River, Northwest Territory, Canada (207581).
Alsmeyer, Elmer C. (See St. Mary’s University Speleological Society.)
Altfilish, G. J., Los Angeles, Calif.: 1 deForest oscillion transmitting tube (209385) .
American Dental Association, Chicago, Ill.: 12 prints comprising an exhibit entitled ‘arly Dentists and Their Patients” (208700).
American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, Madison, Wis.: 12 colored prints comprising an exhibit “A Pictorial Hvolution of the Drug Store” (208448).
American Museum of Natural History. (See D’Andrea, John.)
American Museum of Photography, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. Louis W. Sipley) 1 Lubin motion picture film printer (209393).
American Numismatic Association, Moritz Wormser Memorial Collection, New York, N. Y.: (Through Vernon L. Brown) 2382 coins (207406, 207461, loan). (See also Pabian, Pfc. Roger K.).
American Tropical Association, Milwaukee, Wis.: (Through Jerome Husak) 1 envelope bearing 5¢ ‘‘Cipex’”’ embossed stamp, 1947, 1 3¢ “Fipex” stamp, 1956 (210791).
American Trust Co., San Francisco, Calif.: (Through James K. Lochead) 1 engraver’s proof of halftone, “Church, Bodega,” from the book, “The Pagent of History in Northern California,” San Francisco 1954, and 4 duplicates (207677).
Anderson, Mrs. Alvord V. P. (See Anderson, Gen. Alvord Van Patten.)
Anderson, Gen. Alvord Van Patten (deceased) and family, San Francisco, Calif.: (Through Mrs. Alvord V. P. Anderson) Imperial Manchu robes and other embroideries obtained by General Anderson while in the military seryice in China during Boxer War (202518).
Anderson, Dr. H. V., Baton Rouge, La.: 2 foraminiferal samples from the Kocene of Alabama (208227, exchange).

<<<Page: 82>>>

Anderson, Dr. R. H. Government of.)
Anderson, Dr. W. H. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural Research Service, Entomology Research Branch.)
Anisgard, Dr. Harry W., Maracaibo, Venezuela: 15 type slides of Foraminifera from the EHocene of Venezuela (210089).
Anonymous: 1 Dutch stoneware gin bottle (208456) ; 2 fragments of stained glass from Ypres Cathedral, Belgium (210768) ; 1 accordion, 19th century (210769).
Applegate, Shelton, Charlottesville, Va.: 3 specimens of subholostean fish from upper Triassic shales, Licking Run, Midland, Va., collected by donor (209519).
Arabian American Oil Co., Dhahran, Saudi, Arabia: (Through Dr. R. H. Daggy) 224 fresh-water and land snails from Saudi, Arabia (201082).
Araya, Florencio, Urundel (Salta), Argentina: 1 vial of thrips from Argentina (208631).
Arctic Institute of North America, Washington, D. C.: (Through Mrs. Elizabeth Sherrard) 619 mosses and hepatics from Brooks Range, Alaska (210142).
Arena Stage, Washington, D. C.: (Through Mrs. Zelda Fichandler) Costumes and accessories of late 19th and early 20th century (209360).
Arkansas, University of, Fayetteville, Ark.: 57 plants from Arkansas (2069138).
Armat, Mrs. Thomas, Washington, D. C.: 2 hats, ostrich feather fan, and 2 sets of candle shades, 1st quarter of 20th century (207404).
Armstrong, Mrs. Bess Furman, Washington, D. C.: Leather bound album of Scalamandré’s White House fabrics from Truman Administration renovation of White House (207403).
Armstrong, Mrs. Hamilton, Fayetteville, N. Y.: Buffalo coat worn by General A. Greeley on the Lady Franklin Bay Expedition and found there by Admiral Robert Peary, who presented it to donor’s father (207278).
(See Australia,
Armstrong, Mrs. I. M., Alexandria, Va.: 2 dresses, 2 hats, 2nd quarter of 20th century (207986).
Arnold, Mrs. Bessie, Broomall, Pa.: 40 thematic stamps (210773).
Artia, Ltd. (See Czechoslovakia, Government of.)
Asano, Dr. Kiyoshi, Sendai, Japan: 1 specimen of a foraminifer from the Pliocene of Japan (207916, exchange).
Atomic Energy Commission, Biology Section, Washington, D. C.: (Through Drs. Robert Boss, Robert Hiatt, Donald Strasburg) 53 fishes, 1 giant grouper and 52 gobies from Eniwetok Atoll (208861).
Aurouze, Mile. G., Paris, France: 3 specimens of a foraminifer from the Eocene of France (207918, exchange).
Australia, Government of, Department of Agriculture, Sydney: (Through Dr. R. H. Anderson) 6 ferns from Australia, New Caledonia and Brazil (206787, 208669, exchange). Botanic Gardens, Sydney : 120 plants from New Caledonia (206785, exchange) ; 85 plants from Australia (206786, gift-exchange); (through Dr. R. H. Anderson) 11 ferns, 1 cryptogam (208415, gift-exchange). Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra: 90 plants from Central Australia (206784, exchange); 586 phanerogams, 50 grasses, 38 ferns, 40 eryptogams (207933, exchange); 323 grasses collected in tropical Australia by M. Lazarides (208443, exchange) ; 168 phanerogams from Australia (208720, exchange). Oommonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Plant and Soils Laboratory, Brisbane: 3 phanerogams from Australia (207467). Australian Museum, Sydney: (Through Dr. J. W. Evans) 1 shrimp, paratype (2067638, exchange).
Axelrod, Herbert R., Jersey City, N. J.: 15 fishes collected by donor, July 1955 in Delaporte village, New Providence Island, The Bahamas (208601) ; 37 fishes from aquaria including holotype and paratype (210050). (See also Ludwig, Miss Julliana, and “Tutwiler, O.)
Ayre, G. L., Belleville, Ontario, Can

<<<Page: 83>>>

ada: 175 ants from British Columbia (210627).
Bagley, Walter, Stamford, Conn.: 6 bertrandites from Biermann Quarry, Bethel, Conn. (208948).
Bailey, Dr. Reeve M. (See Michigan, University of.) Bairstow, Dr. Leslie. (See Great
Britain, Government of, British Museum (Natural History) .)
Baker, Dr. Arthur A. (See Interior, Department of the, Geological Survey.)
Baker, Dr. Rollin H. (See Kansas, University of.)
Baker, William S., III, Alexandria, Va.: 1 Russian machine pistol (210608).
Baldwin, Dr. J. T., Jr., Williamsburg, Va.: 1 mole from Virginia (210831).
Baldwin, Wayne J. (See California, University of, Los Angeles.)
Baltars, Eduards, Baltimore, Md.: 38 phanerogams from Maryland (209509).
Bandy, Dr. Mark, Redfield, Iowa: 2 eucryptites from Southern Rhodesia (207586) ; 3 specimens of grayite, eueryptite and sepiolite from Rhodesia (209914, exchange).
Barbour, Dr. Roger W., Lexington, Ky.: Type specimen of new subspecies of bog lemming from Kentucky (208128).
Barker, Dr. R. Wright, Houston, Tex.: 9 specimens of a foraminifer species from Tertiary of México (207844).
Barneby, Rupert C., Wappingers Falls, N. Y.: 20 plants from United States (207734).
Barnes, Col. Theodore, Jr., Washington, D. C.: (Through B. Woodruff Weaver) 1 silver teaspoon with Paul Revere mark, in memory of his mother and father (207739) ; 2 dessert plates from State china used in the White House during administration of President Rutherford B. Hayes, presented in memory of Alice Toole and Theodore Barnes ( 210734). (See also Woodruff, Pauline Barnes. )
Barnes, Virgil E., Austin, Tex.: 2 echinoderms from the Upper Cambrian of Mason County, Tex. (210084, exchange).
Barnett, Maj. Herbert C. (See De-
fense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Bartholomew, Miss Mary, New York, N. Y.: 1 stenographic machine “Stenograph” (207741).
Bartelt, Mrs. John A. Mrs. Katherine Estey.)
Bartlett, Hazel A., Ann Arbor, Mich.: Office desk from U. S. Capitol said to have been used in Abraham Lincoln’s office, ca. 1880 (208874).
Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 75 phanerogams, 6 grasses, 5 ferns from Ohio, Virginia, West Virginia and Maryland (208870) ; 2 ferns from Florida (209898).
Bartsch, Dr. Paul, Lebanon, Va.: 1 ovenbird (208048).
Basden, E. B., Edinburgh, Scotland: 2 pairs of flies from Hurope (207512).
Bausch & Lomb Optical Co., Rochester, N. Y.: 7 panels with photographs and 34 specimens illustrating the making of bifocal lenses from raw materials to finished product (210053).
Belkin, Dr. John. (See California, University of, Los Angeles.)
Bell, Mrs. R. W., Washington, D. C.: 1 antique embroidery frame (208219).
Bell Telephone Laboratories, Red Bank, N. J.: (Through Dr. H. T. Friis) 1 radio receiver, 4A superheterodyne, 1922 (2107338).
Bell, Dr. W. C., Austin, Tex.: 38 brachiopods, type specimens, from the Upper Cambrian of Montana (210285).
Benedict, J. E., Washington, D. C.:
(See Cross,
Flying squirrel from Maryland (210885). Bennett, David P. (deceased):
(Through Miss Jean Bennett) 1 Paisley shawl, 1 lace wedding handkerchief, 1 lace cuff (2095038).
Bennett, Miss Jean. David P.)
Bennett, Dr. Logan J. vania Game Commission.)
Benson, C. W., Taunton, Somerset, England: 1 Rhodesian penduline tit (207646).
Bentinck, Dr. W. C., Berkeley, Calif. : 263 insects from Japan and Korea (207732).
(See Bennett,
(See Pennsyl

<<<Page: 84>>>

Ben-Tuvia, Dr. Adam. Fisheries Research Station.)
Berg, Dr. Rolf Y., Oslo, Norway : 240 ants from Norway (208638).
Bergman, Dr. Ir. B. H. H., Bogor, Indonesia: 11 leafhoppers, including 1 paratype; 1 paratype wasp (207959).
Bergstrom, Robert C., Laramie, Wyo.: 6 North American grasshoppers (207724).
Berkebile, Don H., Washington, D. C.: 1 Militia artillery cap, 1 Militia dragoon helmet (209378, exchange) ; 1 Conestoga wagon jack, 1836 (210833, exchange).
Berry, Dr. S. Stillman, Redlands, Calif.: 3 land snails, paratypes, from California and Montana (207551, exchange).
Bethlehem Steel Company, Bethlehem, Pa.: (Through H. G. Grace) exhibit entitled “Iron and Steel in America” (209498) ; (through John C. Long) Eli Whitney musket from contract of 1812 (209702).
Bettis, Mrs. Alice Pilling, Washington, D. C.: 1 silk apron, 1 sweater jacket, 1 beaded collar, dress front, and net work with bodice, ca. 1880 (210610).
Betts, Hon. Jackson E., Washington, D. C.: Engraving of Admiral George Dewey at Battle of Manila Bay (210154).
Biaggi, Dr. Virgilio, Jr. Rico, University of.)
Bick, Dr. George H., New Orleans, La.: 148 dragonflies from North America (210848).
Bideaux, Richard, Tucson, Ariz.: 1 legrandite from Ojuela Mine, Mapimi, Durango, México, 1 quartz from Camp Washington, Ariz. (207587, exchange).
Bieble, Mrs. Paul J. (See Wolff, Mrs. Laura V.)
Bieda, Prof. Dr. Franciszek, Cracow, Poland: 13 slides of Foraminifera from the Jurassic and Miocene of Poland (207913, exchange).
Bieri, Dr. Robert, Palisades, N. Y.: 1 aleyonarian (209899).
Biese, Dr. Walter N., Santiago, Chile: 324 land snails from Chile (209345).
Biezanko, Dr. C. M., Pelotas, Rio
(See Sea
(See Puerto
Grande do Sul, Brazil: 616 insects from Brazil (207584, 210628).
Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Honolulu, T. H.: 8 plants from Fiji collected by J. L. Gressitt (208596) ; (through Dr. Y. Kondo) 581 marine, land, and fresh-water mollusks, approximately 100 Foraminifera, and an alcyonarian from Bonin Islands (203098, exchange) ; d7 land snails, including 3 paratypes, from Kauai, Hawaii (208744, exchange); (through Col. Edwin H. Bryan, Jr.) 1 coral from Hawaii (204767) ; (through Dr, C. H. Edmondson) 4 crabs (206659).
Bixler, P. S., Hydro, Okla.: (Through William EH. Salter) 1 bullet mold, and reloading tools for 12-gauge shotguns (210787).
Blaine, Alger P., Springfield, Mass.: 5 marine mollusks from Florida (207463).
Blair, Prof. Albert P. University of.)
Blair, Charles, Birmingham, Ala.: 1 brachiopod from the Silurian of Alabama (210083).
Blake, Dr. S. F., Beltsville, Md.: 6 plants (209795).
Blalock, Mrs. Brookie, Selma, Ala.: (Through Dr. Newton BE. Allen) 1 pair of dental forceps used by Dr. Blake Baker Woodson, 1806-1883 (206403).
Blanton, Col. F. S., Washington, D. C.: 69 flies from Panama (210634).
Bliss, Mrs. Robert Woods, Washington, D. C.: 3 side chairs, 2 arm chairs, 1 large sofa and 1 small sofa of carved laminated rosewood, made by John Henry Belter, 1844-1863 (210612).
Blow, W. H., Pointe-a-Pierre, Trinidad, B. W. I.: 94 type specimens of Foraminifera from the Miocene of Venezuela (208067).
Blumberg, Sidney N., Newton, Conn.: 1 mortar and pestle sign cast in metal (210189).
Boardman, Dr. Richard S. loway, Dr. J. J.)
Boerger, Alfred G., Toledo, Ohio: 1 first day postal card (210775).
Bolli, Dr. Hans M., Pointe-a-Pierre, Trinidad, B. W. I.: 47 Foraminifera from the Tertiary of Trinidad (208003,
(See Tulsa,
(See Gal

<<<Page: 85>>>

208005) ; 16 type slides of Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of ‘Trinidad (208006) ; 200 specimens of Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of Trinidad and Algeria (208066) ; 18 foraminiferal samples from the Hocene of Trinidad (209686) ; 48 type slides of Foraminifera from the Paleocene-Lower Eocene, Lizard Springs formation of Trinidad (209806) ; 7 specimens of a foraminifer from the Danian of Denmark (210088).
Borges, F. M., Porto Amélia, Portuguese East Africa: 22 marine mollusks from Portugal (206816, exchange).
Borgmeier, Dr. Thomas, Jacarépagua, D. F., Brazil; 34 ants, including 11 paratypes and 2 ecotypes, from Brazil (2077380) .
Borhegyi, Stephen F. homa, University of.)
Borro, Primitivo, Havana, Cuba: 15 brachiopods from the Tertiary of Cuba (207999, 209808) ; 5 brachiopods from the Eocene of Cuba (208470) ; 16 brachiopods from the Recent of Cuba (209212) ; 2 brachiopods from Cuba (210646).
Boss, Dr. Robert. ergy Commission. )
Botanisch Museum en Herbarium, Utrecht, Netherlands: 50 plants from South America (209772); (through Karl U. Kramer) 51 miscellaneous ferns (210140, exchange).
Botanisches Institut der Universitat, Heidelberg, Germany: 29 plants collected by Prof. Dr. Werner Rauh in Perti (206917).
Botanische Staatssammlung, Munich, Germany : 310 phanerogams from Venezuela collected by Pater C. Vogl (210060, exchange).
Bottimer, L. J., Kerrville, Tex.: 354 insects from Texas (210635).
Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Arlington, Va.: 15 callaghanites from Gabbs, Nev., 1 bindheimite from the Lowman Mine, near La Panta, Mineral County, Nev., 1 autunite from the Bull Dog Mine, near Austin, Lander County, Nev. (207954, exchange) ; 4 gyrolites from Cretaceous or Tertiary volcanic rock of the talus slope, Island of Idglorssuit, Greenland (208864, exchange) ; 7 specimens of a
(See Okla-
(See Atomic En-
new unnamed copper mineral from Gabbs, Nev. (208967, exchange); 1 brushite, 2 taranakites from Pig Hole Cave, Giles County, Va. (210720).
Bradford, Miss Faith, Chevy Chase, Md.: 6 dresses, American period costumes, 1825 to 1860 (209706).
Bradley, Steve, Washington, D. C.: 1 erystallized prehnite, Belmont Quarry, Leesburg, Va. (210214).
Braga, Dr. R. Adhemar, Lima Campos, Ceara, Brazil: 48 specimens of shrimps from Brazil (206419).
Brame, Mrs. Jessie E., Vallejo, Calif. : Woman’s white muslin nightgown originally worn by Julia Kenniston about 1820 and remade after the mid-19th century (208117).
Brandt, Peter H., New York, N. Y.: 1 harmonium made by M. Kasriel, Paris, France (209347).
Brattstrom, Prof. Hans, Bergen, Norway: 4 crabs from the Lund University Chile Expedition (206930).
Bredin Fund, Smithsonian Institution: (Through Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Bredin) 550 fishes, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, insects, mites, ticks, miscellaneous invertebrates, mollusks, 16 specimens of volcanic materials, soil samples for biotic assay, 10 cryptogams, lichens, objects of native handicraft, from Belgian Congo, Sudan and Egypt, collected by Drs. Waldo L. Schmitt and Edward W. Baker (204148).
Bredin, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce. Bredin Fund.)
Breese, P. L. (See Honolulu Zoo.)
Brett, George W., Washington, D. C.: 1 first day cover, Andrew Mellon commemorative (209532).
Brett, W. H. (See Treasury, U. S. Department of the, Bureau of the Mint.)
Brewer, Richard, Champaign, Ill.: 1 grass from Illinois (207507).
Brink, Walter, Genesee Depot, Wis.: 1 envelope with “Brook Hill Local” (210786).
Broadbent, Sam R., Washington, D. C.: Axhead of worked diorite, and boomerang shaped from acacia wood, collected by Charles E. Carter, Australian Forestry Bureau, from natives in Western Australia (207387).
(See

<<<Page: 86>>>

Brock, Dan and Rhoda, Los Angeles, Calif.: 1 specimen of chatoyant quartz, Quartzite, Ariz. (208071).
Brodie, G. H. (See Denver-Golden Oil and Uranium Co.)
Bronnimann, Dr. Paul, Havana, Cuba: 7 specimens of fossil vertebrate remains collected by donor in 1955 (209171).
Brooke, Mrs. Henrietta Bates, Washington, D. C.: Shoulder blanket woven by Chilkat Indians in conventional colors and design pattern, acquired by donor’s mother in Alaska about 1900 (209938).
Brooks, Harold K., Cincinnati, Ohio: 6 specimens of Carboniferous brachiopods from Brazil (207998, exchange).
Brother Alain. (See Colegio de la Salle.)
Brown, Jerram L.. Army Chemical Center, Md.: 2 birds from Maryland (210652).
Brown, Mrs. Joseph M., Arlington, Va.: 138 items of Chinese art: 2 glazed stoneware figurines; vase of carved smoky jade; Buddhist rosary; 7 netzuke-type pendants; miniature baton; pendant of worked amber, collected by husband of donor between 1890 and 1910 in China and elsewhere in Orient (210716).
Brown, Vernon L. (See American Numismatie Association. )
Brown, Dr. W. J. (See Canada, Government of, Department of Agriculture.)
Brown, Dr. W.L. (See Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology, and Kempf, Father Walter W.)
Brown, William H., San Marcos, Tex.: 51 dragonflies from Texas and México; 8 grasshoppers, roaches, leafhoppers, and beetles from México (207896).
Brunner, Mrs. Hattie K., Reinhold, Pa.:2 tin cups for dry cupping (2073899).
Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 345 philatelic specimens consisting of covers, plate blocks and miscellany (208016, 209951); 310 U. S. and foreign stamps, covers, etc. (209715, 210279, 210776, 210785).
Bruns, Miss Hattie H., New York, N. Y.: 3 United Nations first day covers
(208710, 210239); 2 first day covers (209948).
Brussolo, V. A. (See General Services Administration. )
Bryan, Col. Edwin H., Jr. (See Bishop Museum, Bernice P., and Ackerman, Jack.)
Buddhue, John D., Pasadena, Calif. : 2 land snails from Coconino County, Ariz. (208408).
Bullis, Harvey R., Jr. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Bullock, Dr. Dillman S., Angol, Chile: 442 insects from Chile (207734).
Bullock, Dr. Theodore H. (See California, University of, Los Angeles.)
Burke, John J., Butler, Pa. : 144 pieces of Upper Devonian Catskill sandstone containing numerous remains of fossil fishes from Cotter County, Pa. (208866).
Burkhart, John, Washington, D. C.: 16 brackish-water snails from New Jersey (210840).
Burnham, George, Monrovia, Calif. : 4 plattnerites, 1 murdochite, and 1 paradamite from Ouelja Mine, Mapimi, Durango, México (209391).
Burns, Miss Ann Scott, and Burns, John W., Sarasota, Fla.: Mexican bayeta blanket, 1850-1870 (201701).
Burnstine, Bernard N., Washington, D. C.: 1 silver archeological specimen from Pert (208461).
Burroughs, Paul, Concord, N. H.: 2 xanthoxenites from Fletcher Mine, N. H. (208124, exchange).
Butler, B. C., Shreveport, La.: 1 fragmentary fin spine of fossil fish (208781).
Butler, Mrs. Monroe, Beverly Hills, Calif.: 27 political buttons from various campaigns, 1841-1952 (209799).
Cahen, L. (See Museum van Belgisch Congo.)
Cairo University, Giza, Egypt: (Through Prof. M. Hafez) 3 flies from Egypt (208630).
California, University of, Berkeley, Calif.: 327 phanerogams, 6 grasses, 6 ferns, and 8 eryptogams, from Okinawa and Korea collected by Reid Moran (206806) ; 19 polychaetes, including hol

<<<Page: 87>>>

otype and paratypes, from mud of Pt. | collected by Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr.
Richmond, Calif. (209248); (through P. C. Hutchison) 7 ferns (207857) ; (through Dr. Frank A. Pitelka) 6 birds (207611, 208776).
California, University of, Los Angeles, Calif.: (Through Dr. Theodore H. Bullock) approximately 2,326 marine invertebrates, 4 cryptogams, 26 fishes, 1230 mollusks, 25 corals, 185 brachiopods and echinoderms from off the Channel Islands (205678); (through Wayne J. Baldwin) 634 fishes from eastern Pacific (207504, 208357) ; (through Dr. John Belkin) 68 flies from Arizona and California (208712).
California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, Calif.: 1 grass from Arizona (209569); 1 plant (209670, exchange) ; (through Dr. Earl 8. Herald) 3 pipefishes from Pacific, including 1 paratype (183770, exchange) ; (through John Thomas Howell) 2 phanerogams from Alaska (208722, exchange) ; (through Dr. Leo G. Hertlein) 2 marine mollusks from Panama (2094386).
Cambridge, Philip, Cardiff, South Wales: 657 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks, mainly from Great Britain (206997, exchange) ; 28 brachiopods of the Jurassic from England (209214, 210284).
Campbell, Steve B., Atlanta, Ga.: (Through K. Y. Cole) 1 chalcedony cast of brachiopod near Dahlonega, Ga. (207409).
Canada, Government of, Ottawa: Department of Agriculture: 144 phanerogams, 18 grasses, 15 ferns from Canada (208341, exchange) ; 1 grass from Canada (208869); (through Dr. W. J. Brown) 33 beetles from United States, 14 beetles, including 4 paratypes, from Canada (196656); (through Guy E. Shewell) 1 fly from Canada, paratype
(208633); (through Dr. W. R. M. Mason) 95 insects from Canada (208939). Geological Survey of Can-
ada: (Through Dr. Hans Frebold and Dr. D. J. McLaren) 68 Devonian brachiopods from Hllesmere Island (210400). National Museum of Canada: 37 plants from Southampton and Coats Island
(206915, exchange).
Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 1 opal from Rainbow Ridge Mine, Virgin Valley, Nev. (206175) ; 1 cuprite from Ray, Ariz., and 1 beyerite from Wickenberg, Ariz. (207600) ; 1 bementite and 1 fluorite from Franklin, N. J.; 1 fluorite, colorless cubes with fluoborite, hetaerolite, chlorophoenicite, Sterling Hill, N. J. (207920) ; 1 legrandite from Mapimi, Durango, México, 1 engargite from Butte, Mont. (208325) ; 3 platinum nuggets from Goodnews Bay Mining Co., Kuskokwim Bay, Alaska (208330) ; 1 nasonite with willemite and hancockite from Franklin, N. J. (208345) ; 1 dioptase from Brazzaville, French Equatorial Africa (208476) ; 1. each of margarosanite and hedyphane, roeblingite in hancockite, tale, pseudo after willemite, nasonite with hedyphane, and woodrufiite, all from Franklin, N. J. (208775) ; 1 plattnerite from Ouelja Mine, Mapimi, Durango, México (209518) ; 1 specimen of idocrase from Pakistan (210616) ; 1 crystallized gold specimen from the Red Ledge Mines, Washington, Calif. (210617).
Cannard, S. G., Edgewater, Md.: Pottery and stoneware sherds from potteries owned and operated by Dan Ack, Hugh Hunter, and Henry Hunter, in Pennsylvania, collected by donor from surface of old sites (210717). (See also Young, Miss Viola.)
Capart, Dr. André. Royal des Sciences.)
Cape Haze Marine Laboratory, Placida, Fla.: (Through Dr. Eugenie F. Clark) 1 gorgonian (208676).
Capriles, Prof. J. Maldonado, Mayaguez, P. R.: 6 assassin bugs, including 1 paratype, from Puerto Rico (208629).
Carlton, A. C. (See Franklin Institute. )
Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh, Pa.: 26 fossil fish from Europe and the Near Bast (2051383, exchange).
Carpenter, Dr. J. M. (See Kentucky, University of.)
Carpenter, Walter N., Indianapolis, Ind.: 128 marine mollusks from Uruguay (207829).
(See Institut

<<<Page: 88>>>

Carpentier, Dr. Fritz, Liége, Belgium : 1 saw fly, 1 caddis-fly from Belgium (206412) ; 50 scorpion flies and lacewings from Belgium (210632, exchange).
Carrara, Dr. Italo Santiago, Ciudad Eva Perén, Argentina: 8 crabs from Argentina (207276).
Carraway, Miss Gertrude S. (See National Society Daughters of the American Revolution.)
Carson, Frank, and Morgan, Grace,
New Concord, Ohio: Early American wafile iron (207559).
Carvalho, Dr. José C. M., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 280 specimens of Hemiptera from South America (207892, exchange).
Casey Fund, Smithsonian Institution: (Through Robert E. Elbel) 3,331 insects from Thailand (210884).
Casperson, William C., Paterson, N. J.: 4 prehnite cabochons, 3 oval and 1 rectangular, from New Jersey (210620).
Catala, Dr. R., Noumea, New Caledonia: (Through H. J. Coolidge) 1 shrimp from Noumea, New Caledonia (209101).
Cather, Mary Byrdie (deceased) (Through Union National Bank) 1 walnut knife box (2092438, bequest).
Cazier, Dr. Mont A. (See Vaurie, Mrs. Patricia.)
Cendrero, Luis, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 9 marine mollusks from Vera Cruz, México (206677).
Central Michigan College of Education, Mount Pleasant, Mich.: (Through Dr. LaVerne L. Curry) 16 pinned specimens, 14 slides and 2 vials of biting midges from Michigan (210278).
Chadbourne, Mrs. E. C., Washington, D. C.: Needlework picture commemorating the death of Alexander Hamilton, 1804 (209200).
Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea, Smithsonian Institution: 303 land and fresh-water mollusks from Tirol, Austria (204124); 3 peridots from Arizona and 2 aquamarines from the Fletcher Mine, North Groton, N. H. (206728) ; 1 spinel, danburite, diopside and peridot star from Burma (208477).
65 Chamberlayne, Dr. E.C. (See World Health Organization. )
Chamberlin, Dr. W. J., Corvallis, Oreg.: 2 bark beetles, paratypes, from northwest U. S. (209222).
Chan Yang, Ambassador You. Korea, Government of.)
Chandler, Prof. Asa C., Houston, Tex.: 1 skull of fossil horse from bank of stream near Schulenberg, Tex. (179523) ; 14 shrimps (209102).
Chapin, Dr. Edward A., West Medway, Mass.: 2 ferns and 6 mosses from New Hampshire (208985).
Chapman, Mrs. J. Holbrook. (See Woman’s Auxiliary of Christ Church.)
Charleston Museum, Charleston, S. C.: (Through Dr. Albert Schwartz) 2 frogs, paratypes of new subspecies, from Cainhoy, S. C., collected by J. Harrison, J. Quinby and A. Schwartz, September 1955 (208504) ; 39 bird skins from Belgian Congo collected by J. R. Nowell (210604).
Cherne, Leo, New York, N. Y.: Lifesized bronze bust of Albert Schweitzer, sculptured by donor (209700).
Chestnut, Dr. A. F. (See North Carolina, University of, Institute of Fisheries Research.)
Chicago Natural History Museum, Chicago, Ill.: 200 ferns and 43 grasses from Venezuela collected by Dr. Julian A. Steyermark (208614, 210640) ; 88 phanerogams from Guiana and Venezuela collected by Dr. Julian A. Steyermark (208719, 208721, 209224, 209511) ; 1 crab, paratype, from Fiji Islands (209763, exchange); (through Colin Campbell Sanborn) 2 bats from Omaja, Oriente, Cuba (205202, exchange) (through Mrs. Marion Grey) 1 fish from Oregon (208657).
Childers, Cleve, Chadron, Nebr.: Large group of sand-calcite crystals from Snake Buttes, S. Dak (209835).
Ciba Pharmaceutical Preducts, Inc., Summit, N. J.: 1 bottle 0.25 mg. tablets of Serpasil (210067).
Cincinnati Museum of Natural History, Cincinnati, Ohio: (Through Ralph Dury) 50 brachiopods, 4 gastropods, 10 crinoids from Ordovician of Ohio (208331, exchange).
(See

<<<Page: 89>>>

City College, New York, N. Y.: 1 copy of medal struck in honor of Dr. Jonas E. Salk (208221).
Clark, Mrs. Effie M., Castro Valley, Calif.: Approximately 4,500 mollusks, bryozoans, brachiopods, and corals of the Pleistocene from San Pedro, Calif. (209805).
Clark, Dr. Eugenie F. Haze Marine Laboratory.)
Clark, Mrs. Leila, Washington, D. C.: 5 essays of Smithsonian Institution Centennial stamps prepared by Austin H. Clark (209522).
Clayson, George P.
(See Cape
(See Eaton Pa-
per Corp.)
Clench, Dr. William J. (See Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology.)
Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Cleveland, Ohio: 38 fossil fishes from the Upper Devonian Ohio shales of northeastern Ohio (209825, exchange).
Cloud, Dr. Preston E., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 11 crabs from Bahama Banks, west of Andros, collected by donor (207825). (See also Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey.)
Cockrum, Dr. E. L., Tucson, Ariz.: 1 bat from Arizona (208856, exchange).
Cohen, Moshe. (See Israel, Minister of Posts of.)
Cole, Dr. A. C., Knoxville, Tenn. : 144 ants from North America (210235).
Cole, K. Y., Springfield, Va.: 1 chalcopyrite, 1 apatite, and 1 sphene from Centreville, Va. (210645). (See also Campbell, Steve B.)
Cole, Dr. W. Storrs, Ithaca, N. Y.: 12 Foraminifera from the Hocene of México (207848).
Colégio Anchieta, Pérto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: 34 grasses from Brazil collected by Dr. B. Rambo, S. J. (205674).
Colegio de la Salle, Havana, Cuba: (Through Brother Alain) 8 phanerogams from Cuba (207858, 209508, 209707) ; 30 phanerogams from Cuba (208102, exchange).
Coleman, Richard W., San Francisco, Calif.: 10 fresh-water mollusks from Pinnacles National Monument, Calif.
(206584) ; 1 lot amphipods from Chalone Creek, Calif. (206853).
Collins, A. C., Geelong, Victoria, Australia: 28 Foraminifera, Tertiary of New Zealand and Recent of Australia (207995, exchange); 1 foraminiferal sample from the Recent of Tasmania (209685).
Collins, Dr. Henry B. (See Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Hthnology.)
Colom, Dr. G., Séller (Baleares), Spain: 110 planktonic Foraminifera from the Tertiary, 1 sample from the Recent of Spain (210404, exchange).
Combs, Mrs. Nellie B., and Combs, Edward H., San Bernardino, Calif.: 1 variscite nodule from Fairfield, Utah, 2 specimens of native gold in garnet from Centennial Mine, Centennial, Wyo. (208483).
Commerce, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: Coast and Geodetic Survey: (Through Robert W. Knox) Parkhurst theodolite (206598) ; (through Douglas L. Parkhurst) 12 surveying instruments, 1 bust of F. Hassler (208213). Weather Bureau: (Through J. Glenn Dyer) 2 mammals, 3 fishes, 60 marine invertebrates, 3 vertebrate, invertebrate and plant fossils from near Mould Bay Weather Station, Prince Patrick Island, Northwest Territories, Canada (208600); (through Robert Wright) 5 meterological instruments (209514).
Conde, Vicente, Montreal, Canada: 336 marine and land mollusks, 2 crabs from Cuba (208019, exchange).
Condit, Lt. John M., Worthington, Ohio: 2 reptiles and 6 amphibians from Nevada, Alabama, and Maryland collected by donor (210758).
Conover, John R., Hyattsville, Md.: 1 pocket watch (208047); 4 firearms and accessories (208777).
Conrad, Stephen G., Knoxville, Tenn. : Fragmentary left lower jaw of fossil vertebrate (208782).
Conroy, J. Robert, Washington, D.C.: Stuffed dog, “Stubby,” mascot of 26th Yankee Division during World War I, with decorations and medals (210736).

<<<Page: 90>>>

Cooke, Dr. C. Wythe. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey.)
Cooley, George R., Cambridge, Mass. : 101 phanerogams, 18 grasses, 2 ferns from Sanibel Island (210059).
Coolidge, H. J. (See Catala, Dr. R.)
Coombs, Dr. D. S. (See Otago, University of.)
Cooper, Dr. Kenneth W., Rochester, N. Y.: 83 insects from United States and Europe (207735).
Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Henry Dietrich) 16 flies and 6 slides of flies from North America (206722, 208621). 23 plants (206780, 207419, exchange) ; 35 plants from México and Costa Rica collected by Dr. Harold H. Moore, Jr. (207730).
Correll, Dr. Donovan S., Beltsville, Md.: 248 plants collected in Texas (207465).
Coryndon Museum, Nairobi, Kenya Colony, East Africa: (Through John G. Williams) 60 bird skins (209191, exchange).
Cottam, Dr. Clarence. (See Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Foundation.)
Couch, Mrs. Mary I., Hyattsville, Md.: Black broadcloth evening coat worn by Mrs. Mary S. Couch at the inauguration of President Theodore Roosevelt, 1905 (208452).
Cramer, George F. Albert G., estate of.)
Crane, Dr. David, Arlington, Va.: 2 snakes from La Mesa Cundinamarca, Colombia collected by donor (210184).
Crawford, Mrs. C. A., Queenstown, Md. : Odd bones of whistling swan from Maryland (208566).
Creighton, Dr. W. S., New York, N. Y.: 179 ants from North America (210630, 210847).
Crickmay, Dr. C. H., Calgary, Alberta, Canada: 2 corals from Canada, parts of type specimens (209677, exchange).
Crockett, Mr. and Mrs. William D., Washington, D. C.: Pair of iridescent blue lizard “Spring-o-lator” high-heel shoes, period 1955 (207579).
896826—56——8
(See McChesney,
Bailey Hortorium:
Cross, Mrs. Katherine Estey (deceased) : (Through Mrs. John A. Bartelt) 1 damask tablecloth, early 19th century (210282).
Crown Agents, Washington, D. C.: (Through A. J. E. Davis) 43 philatelic specimens (207900) ; 31 British Colonial stamps (2097238, 210391); 26 British Commonweath stamps (209948); 1 Fiji and 2 Jamaica stamps, with copy of portrait of Queen Elizabeth (210743).
Crown Cork & Seal Co., Inc., Baltimore, Md.: 9 Kodachrome transparencies illustrating cork culture in the United States (208438, exchange).
Cuatrecasas, Dr. José, Washington, D. C.: 259 phanerogams from Colombia (207682, 210763) ; 388 phanerogams collected in Venezuela by F. Cardona (208060).
Cubells, Pierre A., Soissons (Aisne), France; 1 first day cover (210782).
Cummings, Dr. Robert, Glasgow, Scotland : 2 specimens, including 1 paratype, of a foraminifer from the Carboniferous of Scotland (208467, exchange).
Curry, Dr. LaVerne L. (See Central Michigan College of Education.)
Curtis, Karl P., Gamboa, Canal Zone: 1 skull of a puma from Panam4& (2106838).
Cutler, Mrs. Gifford, Vista, Calif. : 4-section boxwood flute (207966).
Cutress, Charles E., Washington, D. C.: Miscellaneous marine invertebrates, mostly coelenterates, approximately 5 mollusks, from Hawaiian, Samoan, and Marshall Islands, New Zealand, Oregon, Florida (209154).
Czechoslovakia, Government of: (Through Artia, Ltd.) 61 Czechoslovakian stamps and first day covers (209711, 210248, 210774) ; 9 miscellaneous philatelic specimens (208010).
Daggy, Dr.R.H. (See Arabian American Oil Co.)
Dahlberg, Dr. Albert, Chicago, Ill.: 17 plaster of Paris plaques “for the Establishment of Standards for Classifications of Tooth Characters, Attributes and Techniques in Morphological Studies of the Dentition.” (210218).

<<<Page: 91>>>

Dalmat, H. T., Bethesda, Md.: 2 flies from Iowa (207894).
D’Andrea, John, Brooklyn, N. Y.: (Through American Museum of Natural History) Deformed claw of green erab (209647).
Daniel, Dr. A., Chepauk, Madras, India: 12 isopods (208108).
Darling, Thomas, Jr., Washington, D. C.: 45 ferns from South Carolina and Washington (207140, 210395).
Darnell, Dr. Rezneat M. (See Tulane University.)
Davenport Public Museum, Davenport, Iowa: 16 grasses from Iowa (207618).
Davidson, John A., Takoma Park, Md.: 5 fishes from Brazil (210212).
Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents, The.)
Davis, Bernard, Philadelphia, Pa.: 2 posteards with special cancellation of International Philatelic Exhibition, Havana, Cuba, Nov. 16, 1955 (2095384).
Davis, Dr. J. J., Lafayette, Ind.: 1 moth from Alaska (208626).
Davis, Dr. William S. (See Interior, U. 8S. Department of the, Fish and Wiildlife Service.)
Davison, Mrs. Allan S., Bradenton, Fla. : 2 evening gowns, white silk chiffon and white lace and net over white taffeta, ca. 1910 (209201).
Dawson, C. E., Port Aransas, Tex.: 2 shrimps from Port Aransas (208666).
Dawson, E. W., Wellington, New Zealand : 50 brachiopods from Lyttleton Harbor, New Zealand (207408, exchange).
Dayioglou, Mrs. Katina P., Silver Spring, Md.: 3 cardboard wall brackets and a whatnot covered with satin and embroidered with floral designs by donor in 1892 in Adana, Turkey (208460).
Dean, Mills, III, Arlington, Va.: 1 book “Instruction Book for Violano— Virtuoso” (208316).
Debourle, A., Pau (Basses-Pyrénées), France: 9 specimens of a foraminifer from the Eocene of France (207912, exchange).
DeButts, Harry. way System.)
(See Southern Rail-
de Cardenas, Juan Pirez, Havana, Cuba: French military medal, ca. 1821, 2 French paper bills, 1 mother-of-pearl antique fan (208975).
Defense, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: DEPARTMENT OF THE Army: 4 guns (210072); (Through Capt. William B. Leonard) 19 bayonets (210074). 6th Army Area Medical Laboratories: (Through Capt. Hilton H. Harle, Jr.) 25 fresh-water snails from Washington (207656). Army Chemical Center: (Through Dr. Fred M. Snyder) 465 larvae and puparia of flies from laboratory cultures (207582). 25th Preventive Medicine Survey Detachment: (Through Capt. Gordon Field) 41 birds from Panama and Canal Zone (208112) ; (through Capt. Gordon Field and C. M. Keenan) 599 mammals from Panamé and Canal Zone (206976). 87th Medical Co.: (Through Capt Vernon J. Tipton and Thomas A. Derse) 762 pinned specimens and 794 slides of flies (210228). Walter Reed Army Medical Center: (Through Lt. Col. Robert Traub) 99 mites from IndoMalaya (207725) ; 360 lice, world wide (207994) ; (through Major Herbert C. Barnett) 246 flies from Malaya (208625) ; (through Capt. Bruce C. Walton) approximately 100 specimens of fresh-water mollusks from Fort McPherson, Ga. (208772). DEPARTMENT OF THE Navy, Arctic Research Laboratory: Approximately 200 specimens of Pleistocene and sub-Recent mammal materials, collected by Messrs. William L. Quade and Robert S. Fladeland at Point Barrow, Alaska (205118). Bureau of Ships: 11 chronometers and 3 watches (2108938). Hydrographic Office: (Through Dr. Willis L. Tressler) 10,000 marine invertebrates, 4 foraminiferal samples, 2 echinoderms, collected on Antarctic Cruise 1955 (206661). Office of Naval Research: 11 Cretaceous plants from Colville River, Alaska
(210401); (through Dr. Ira L. Wiggins) 8 eryptogams from Alaska (210057). Naval Gun Factory:
(Through Adm. D. M. Tyree) 2 Thomson electrostatic voltmeters, 1 rotary converter, 1 graphic ammeter (210389).

<<<Page: 92>>>

de Forest, Lee, Los Angeles, Calif. : Bronze bust of Lee de Forest (206602).
Deinard, Amos S., and Deinard, Benedict, Minneapolis, Minn.: The Ephraim Deinard Collection of ceremonial objects, long on loan to Smithsonian Institution by Ephraim Deinard, grandfather of donors; coins from Bible lands, objects of Jewish and Mohammedan religious art and ceremonial in fabric, wood, stone, metals, and manuseript (207992).
Deinard, Benedict. Amos §.)
Deis, Mrs. Emily Webster, Berrien
(See Deinard,
Springs, Mich.: Tibetan silk shroud (206962). DeKay, Thomas, Springfield, Va.:
Portable radio spark transmitter, dated probably prior to 1920 (209384).
de Klasz, Dr. Ivan, Port-Gentil (Gabon), French Equatorial Africa: 2 foraminifers, Cretaceous of Austria; 1 micro-sample, Miocene of West Africa (208068) ; 115 foraminiferal samples, Cretaceous, Paleocene, and Miocene from Gabon, French Equatorial Africa and French Cameroon (208069, exchange) ; 1 foraminiferal sample, Recent of French West Africa (209690) ; approximately 2,000 specimens of a foraminifer from the Upper Cretaceous of French West Africa (210086); 12 microsamples of the Hocene of Gabon, French West Africa (210405).
de Koninck, M. E., Quezaltenango, Guatemala: 4 grasses from Guatemala (204135).
Delpino, Benedict L., Philadelphia, Pa.: Pharmaceutical balance, manufactured in France and sold by George W. Carpenter, Philadelphia, Pa., and metal stand (207398).
Delta State Teachers College, Cleveland, Miss.: 5 grasses from Mississippi (206692).
Demaree, Delzie, Benton, Ark.: 8 phanerogams from Arkansas (207841).
Demaret, Dr. F. (See Jardin Botanique de I|’Etat.)
Dendy, Dr. J. S. technic Institute.)
Denmark, H. A. Plant Board of.)
(See Alabama Poly-
(See Florida, State
Dent, Russell G., Bethesda, Md.: 10 snails from Maryland (210841).
Denver-Golden Oil and Uranium Co., Denver, Colo.: (Through G. H. Brodie) 2 specimens of uranium ore from mine of donor (209744).
DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind.: (Through Dr. T. G. Yuncker) 43 cryptogams from Tonga (207417, exchange).
Derse, Thomas A. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Devlin, Joseph M. Zoological Garden.)
Dexter, Dr. Ralph W., Kent, Ohio: 43 specimens of branchiopods, including holotype, allotype, and paratypes (209753).
Diamant, Mrs. Henry A., New York, N. ¥.: 1 first day cover (210777).
Dietrich, Dr. Henry. (See Cornell University. )
Dietrich, Dr. R. V. Polytechnic Institute. )
Dilley, Willard E. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of the, National Park Service.)
Dingwell, Paul D., Longmeadow, Mass.: (Through Mrs. William H. Wheeler, Jr.) 3 U. S. Navy uniforms, 1 navy blue wool cap cover (210471).
Dobbs, Dr. Raymond J., Geneseo, Ill.: 1 spring wind pendulum clock, 1 early English lantern clock (199490) ; 1 passenger’s contract ticket for passage on the ship Bellona in 1851 (208435).
Doig, Mrs. Arthur H., Washington, D. C.: Invitation to dinner at White House, November 22, 1876, to Miss Annie Barnes, and newspaper picture of Nellie Grant and Algernon Sartoris from the
(See Philadelphia
(See Virginia
Wedding Graphic, May 24, 1874 (207401). Dons, Dr. Johannes A. (See Min-
eralogisk-Geologisk Museum. )
Dorion, Robert C., Guatemala, C. A.: 1 shark skin from San Felipe Fort in Lake Izabel, Guatemala (207554).
Dowden, Philip B. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of, Forest Service.)
Doyle, Mrs. Thomas J., Washington, D. C.: Quaker bonnets and costume pieces, mid-19th century, worn by Anne

<<<Page: 93>>>

Henley Hunt, Aaron Hunt and Abigail Starbuck Henley of Indiana (207678).
Drake, Dr. C. J., Ames, Iowa: 6 water striders, 6 lace bugs, 11 crawling water bugs, including paratypes, from Iowa (208636).
Dreisbach, R. R., Midland, Mich.: 1 paratype of wasp (210222).
Drucker, Dr. Philip. (See Museo Nacional de Arqueologia y Etnografia.)
Dunbar, Dan L., St. Louis, Mo.: 1 eake of trading wax of South America, 19th century (206588).
DuPont, James M., Stirling, N. J.: 3 jadeites and 1 magnesite from Manzanal, Montagua Valley, Guatemala (210081, 210618).
Dury, Ralph. (See Cincinnati Museum of Natural History.)
Dyer, J. Glenn. (See Commerce, U.S. Department of, Weather Bureau.)
Eads, Dr. Richard B., Austin, Tex.: 2 fleas, holotype and allotype, from Texas (208716).
Earle, Capt. Hilton H., Jr. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Eastman Kodak Co., Washington, D. C.: (Through Keith Lewis) 1 Kodascope Pageant sound projector, 16 mm. (209194).
Eaton, Mrs. George, Covington, Ky.: 63 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from Kentucky, Ohio, Virginia, Florida, and Ontario (202216, exchange).
Eaton Paper Corp., Pittsfield, Mass. : (Through George P. Clayson) 2,010 poster stamps depicting some suitable scene of New York City, commemorating the eventful year 1939 (210879).
Eck, W. John, Arlington, Va.: Collection of sailor’s knots (210118).
Eckstein, Jerome P., Savannah, Ga.: 1 child’s cotton dress worn by Rosalie N. Heckstein, 1850-51, during California gold rush, and 1 boy’s lace dress, 18801885, worn by donor in Savannah (207618).
Ecole d’Agriculture, Rimouski, Québec: 7 grasses from Canada (208441).
Edgar, Dr. S.A. (See Alabama Polytechnic Institute.)
Edmonds, Harry, Casanova, Va.: Ladies’ costumes of last quarter 19th century; 1 painted fan; embroidered evening handkerchief; 17 U. S. and foreign coins of silver and copper, 6 pieces of lace (208875).
Edmondson, Dr. C. H., Honolulu, T. H.: 3 crabs from Hawaiian Islands (209565). (See also Bishop Museum, Bernice P.)
Ehrmann, Martin L., Los Angeles, Calif.; 1 vaesite and 1 cattierite from Shinkolobwe, Belgian Congo (208479) ; 1 mimetite from Tsumeb, Southwest Africa (210615).
Eickemeyer Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 1 De Vry 35mm automatic motion picture camera (206775) ; 13 original pictorial photographs by Edward Weston (210054).
Eilers, Mrs. Betty B., Scottsdale, Ariz.: Turquoise georgette crepe dress and accessories, 1925 (206577).
Eisenhower, Mrs. Dwight D., Washington, D. C.: Early American blanket chest and 2 black lacquered and motherof-pearl inlaid Chinese tea chests (207737) ; brass pin depicting hunting scene, given to donor by her mother, Mrs. Elivera Doud, and worn by Mrs. Eisenhower on her wedding dress, July 1, 1916 (208952); collection of dolls and parts of dolls, 3 daguerreotypes, pair of baby shoes, black beaded evening cape (209118).
Elbel, Robert E., Lawrence, Kans.: 103 specimens of lice from Thailand (210850). (See also Abbott Fund, W. L., and Casey Fund.)
Eli Lilly & Co., Indianapolis, Ind.: 1 vial poliomyelitis vaccine produced for national clinical field trials made in 1954 (207394) ; 1 bottle of 0.25 mg. tablets of Sandril (210065).
Elias, Dr. Maxim K., Lincoln, Nebr.: 8 rare brachiopods from the Pennsylvanian of Kansas and Missouri (208469).
Elliott, Dr. Graham, London, England: 1 foraminiferal sample of middle Jurassic from Bath, England (208463).
Elliott, Dr. J. C, San Francisco, Calif. : 121 phanerograms, 11 grasses, 6 ferns from Ryukyu Islands (210782).

<<<Page: 94>>>

Elsbernd, Rev. A. J.. Somanya, Gold Coast, British West Africa: Stone disk beads from Akwapim Range, Gold Coast (209174).
Emerson, Dr. Alfred E., Chicago, Ill. : 113 termites from all over the world (207727).
Emerson, Lt. Col. K. C., Fort Leavenworth, Kans.: 1 holotype and 1 allotype wasps from Kansas (208619) ; 381 lice and 1 flea from North America (210846).
Emlen, Dr. John T., Jr., Madison, Wis. : 2 nests of cliff swallow (208862).
Emory University, Emory University, Ga.: (Through Dr. J. G. Lester) crystal fragments of hydroxyl apatite from Holly Springs, Ga., collected by Ben Boyd and Nick Johns (209679, exchange).
Engelmann, William F., Miami, Fla.: 4 sculptured portraits and 2 sculptured relief portraits made by HEngelmann photo-mechanical process; 1 photographic “Form and Expression record” (207388) ; Century of Progress exhibition medal (208051).
Erdman, Donald S., Lajas, Puerto Rico: 17 fishes from Puerto Rico (209829).
Ericson, D., Palisades, N. Y¥.: 5 foraminiferal samples from WHocene (cores), 2 manganese nodules from
Caryn Seamount, Atlantic Ocean (208226, exchange). Escuela Agricola Panamericana,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 1 fern and 5 phanerogams from Honduras (210141, 210397, exchange).
Estacion Experimental Agrondémica, Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: 2 ferns from Cuba (193017); (through Ing. Julian Acuna) 1 fern and 1 grass from Cuba (206805, 208284).
Ettinghausen, Dr. Richard, Washington, D. C.: Cupping glass collected in Nishapur, Persia (207389, loan).
Evans, Dr. Howard E., Ithaca, N. Y.: 7 bees from New York (207508).
Evans, Dr. J. W. (See Australia, Government of, Australian Museum).
Everhart, Dr. W. Harry. (See Maine, University of.)
Fabian, Dominick, Portland, Oreg.: 1
hand-lettered first day cover “Atoms for Peace” (208013); 1 first day cover (208706).
Fahrney, Clyde N., Waynesboro, Pa.: 17 stoneware specimens made in Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia, 1 red earthenware specimen made in Waynesboro, Pa. (208457).
Farley, James A., New York, N. Y.: Miscellaneous collection of postal material, 30,817 specimens (209045, loan).
Farrell, Mrs. Elizabeth, York, N. Y.: 1 set of adult’s dress hoops, ca. 1860, 1 set of child’s dress hoops, ca. 1870, 1 purple and gray plaid bodice, 1870 (208073).
Fay, Dr. Francis H., Vancouver, B. C.: 4 marine mollusks from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska (204662).
Ferguson, Dr. Alice H., Commerce, Tex.: 14 dragonflies and skins from Texas (207513).
Ferguson, Dr. Edward, Jr., Orangeburg, S. C.: 2 ostracods, holotype and paratype (210513).
Ferguson, Dr. F. F. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service.)
Feth, Dr. J. E. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of the, Geological Survey.)
Fichandler, Mrs. Zelda. (See Arena Stage.)
Field, Capt. Gordon. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Depariment of the Army.)
Field, Dr. Henry, Coconut Grove, Fla. : 9 specimens of fungi from Maine (207561). (See also Harvard University, Peabody Museum.)
Filardo, Silvio, Washington, D. C.: 33 necklaces of glass trade beads, in pattern sequence with beads and pendants of endemic materials, collected by donor from the Tule Indians, San Blas Islands, Panam4 (209697).
Finks, Robert M., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 2,000 fossils of Lower Devonian from Highland Mills, N. Y. (209678).
Flath, Edward J., Waukegan, Ill.: 1 cacheted envelope marking 19th annual exhibition of Lake County Philatelic Society (210789).
Fleming, Dr. C. A. land, Government of.)
(See New Zea

<<<Page: 95>>>

Fleming, Col. William D., Boulder, Colo. : 420 slides of diatoms and 56 photomicrographs (210838).
Fleminger, Abe. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Florida, University of, Gainesville, Fla.: 2 grasses and 1 fern from Florida (206841, 208089) ; 201 phanerograms, 29 grasses from Florida (208786, exchange) ; (through Dr. H. Lowe Pierce) 1 crab (206660) ; (through Dr. Leonard BH. Swanson) 2 trematode worms, 1 vial of feather mites (207536).
Florida Geological Survey, Tallahassee, Fla.: (Through Stanley J. Olsen) 4 casts of fossil horse types from the Miocene Hawthorne formation of Florida (209775, exchange).
Florida, State Plant Board of, Gainesville, Fla.: (Through H. A. Denmark) 14 isopods from Florida (210259).
Florida State University, Tallahassee, Fla.: 3 plants from Fiorida (209368) ; (through Marvin L. Wass) 1 tooth and piece of skin of sand shark from EKgmont Key., Fla. (207882); 52 hermit crabs, 5 isopods, 1 shrimp (208664) ; (through William D. Reese) 1 moss from Florida (210026).
Flynn, Miss Helen M. (See National Society for Crippled Children and Adults, Inc.)
Folinsbee, Prof. R. EB. University of.)
Fontanele, Dr. Osmar, Fortaleza, Cearéa, Brazil: 6 aquatic plants of northeastern Brazil (207684).
Forattini, Dr. Oswaldo P., Sio Paulo, Brazil: 7 biting midges, paratypes, from Brazil (210624).
Forest, Dr. J. (See Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle. )
Forest Research Institute, Kepong, Selangor, Federation of Malaya: 159 phanerograms (209371, exchange).
Foster, E. D., Los Angeles, Calif.: 1 sample of diatomaceous earth from Idaho (209369).
Fowler, Henry W. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. )
Fowler, Roland A., Washington, D. C.: Jaws and other skeletal portions of por-
(See Alberta,
poise from Calvert Md. (206778).
Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through A. C. Carlton 2 steam engines, Corliss and Baldwin, 3 steam turbines, Kerr, Terry and DeLaval (210004).
Frebold, Dr. Hans. (See Canada, Government of, Geological Survey of Canada.)
Freeman, Dr. Paul. (See Great Britain, Government of, British Museum (Natural History).)
French, Aston, Montréal, Iron spike (210143).
Friedrich, Dr. Hans, Munich, Germany: 2 mollusks from Guadalcanal, Solomon Islands (206821).
Friis, Dr. H. T. (See Bell Telephone Laboratories. )
Frimerkjasalan, Reykjavik, Iceland: Miscellaneous philatelic specimens and 2 first day covers from Iceland (207899) . (See also Iceland, Government of.)
Frondel, Prof. Clifford. (See Harvard University.)
Frost, Dr. S. W., State College, Pa.: 19 holotypes of flies from all over the world (208620).
Fundacion Miguel Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina: (Through Dr. Rolf Singer) 117 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 3 ferns from Argentina (208446, exchange).
Galbraith, Reed, Denver, Colo. : Holy Catholic Bible, standard edition of old and new testaments approved by University of Douay in 1609 (208803).
Gallitelli, Prof. Eugenia Montanaro, Modena, Italy: 1 foraminiferal sample from the Triassic of Italy (209689).
Galloway, J. C., Punta Gorda, Fla.: 2 millipeds from Florida (208277).
Galloway, Dr. J. J., Bloomington, Ind.: (Through Dr. Richard S. Boardman) 89 stromatoporoids from the Devonian of Indiana (210718).
Gamerdinger, Henry. Government of.)
Ganier, Albert F., Nashville, Tenn.: White-footed mouse from West Virginia (207565).
Gates, Dr. G. E., Bangor, Maine: 5 specimens of larval cestodes from earthworms from Maine (208427).
County,
Québec:
(See Monaco,

<<<Page: 96>>>

Geisen, Mike, Miami, Fla.: 18 snakes from Florida collected by donor (206991, 208547).
General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.: (Through Dr. C. G. Suits) The first diamond made in the General Hlectrie Company Research Laboratory, in 1954, surrounded by 100 carats of synthetic diamonds subsequently produced (205397).
General Services Administration, Washington, D. C.: (Through V. A. Brussolo) 1 euxenite from Bear Valley, Idaho (208283). Federal Supply Service: 17 guns and pistols, foreign and domestic (210073, 210738). National Archives and Records Service: 9,584 first flight covers (210881). Personal Property Utilization Branch: 140,330 foreign stamps, mainly from Germany (208074, 208880). (See also Treasury, U. S. Department of the, and Post Office Department. )
Gerberg, E. J., Baltimore, Md.: 4 land snails from Guatemala (210649).
Germany, Republic of, Der Bundesminister fiir das Post-und Fernmeldewesen, Bonn: 6 philatelic specimens (207906) ; 12 German postage stamps (209712, 210077, 210744) ; 1 Mint “Olympics Year” commemorative (210859).
Gerrodette, Miss Eleanor, Washington, D. C.: 1 pair USN trousers, 2 knives and scabbards, 3 skrimshaw whale teeth (209543).
Gideon, Mrs. Kenneth H., Falls Church, Va.: U. S. Navy ensign’s uniform of World War I (210609).
Gisler, Julius, San Francisco, Calif. : 1 garnet and smoky quartz, Mineral Mountains, Utah; 1 tourmaline, Mt. Thompson, Plumas County, and 1 epidote, Garnet Hill, Calaveras County, Calif. (207410).
Gloyd, Dr. H. K. Ernest R.)
Golden, Dr. Milford, Detroit, Mich.: 30-volume collection of Indian Feudatory States stamps (208879).
Goreau, Dr. Thomas, Woods Hole, Mass.: 1 coral from Jamaica, B. W. I. (209935).
Gosline, Dr. William A. waii, University of.)
(See Tinkham, Dr.
(See Ha-
Goss, Dr. Leonard. (See New York Zoological Park.)
Gottfried, Oscar, New York, N. Y.: 248 mint and used stamps, 10 seals, 1 envelope, 1 card (210882).
Grace, E. G. (See Bethlehem Steel Company.)
Graf, John E., Washington, D. C.: 1 envelope franked with Rumanian stamps, 1 cover “Operation Deepfreeze,” and 4 miscellaneous philatelic specimens (209536, 209952).
Graham, Judge (deceased) and Mrs. Samuel Jordan, Takoma Park, Md.: Irish crochet and Maltese bobbin-made laces, mid-19th century daguerreotype of donor’s family in Ireland, French mantel clock, parasol, Spanish painted fans, gold cuff links, vest buttons and shirt studs, jeweled stickpins, embroidered handkerchiefs, beaded handbags, and other objects of minor art long in possession of donor’s family (207022).
Grant, Dr. Leonard J. (See National Geographic Society.)
Grant, Dr. U. S., Los Angeles, Calif. : 3 brachiopods from the Tertiary of California (210000, exchange).
Gray, Milton, Woods Hole, Mass.: 8 stomatopods (206768).
Great Britain, Government of: (Through Ambassador Roger Makins) 1 hand illuminated envelope autographed by King George VI and Queen Hlizabeth (209801). British Museum (Natural History:) 131 phanerogams, 7 photographs of types and 37 grasses of various regions and collectors (207884, 210602, exchange); (through H. Oldroyd) 91 specimens of 58 species of insects, world wide (207523, exchange) ; (through Dr. Paul Freeman) 47 specimens of craneflies and blephoricerids, world wide (207889, exchange) ; (through P. F. Mattingly) 189 mosquitoes from all over the world (207890, 207891, exchange) ; (through Dr. Leslie Bairstow) 7 echinoids from the Cretaeceous of France and England (210152, exchange) ; (through Dr. H. M. MuirWood) i brachiopod from Antarctic (210614, exchange). Commonwealth Institute of Entomology: (Through Dr. F. van Hmden) 1 fly from Kenya

<<<Page: 97>>>

(207581) ; (through G. J. Kerrich) 12 specimens of Hymenoptera and chalcids from Mauritius (208049).
Green, Joseph C., Chevy Chase, Md.: Hickory cane mounted with a deer horn and silver tipped, given by President Andrew Jackson to HE. P. Langdon of Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1832 (210677).
Green, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. (See Norris, Alexander J.)
Greenfield, Ray, Honolulu, T. H.: 15 isopods and approximately 355 amphipods from Hawaii (209490); 83 land shells from Perti (210068).
Gregg, Dr. Robert E., Boulder, Colo.: Approximately 354 ants from North America (208640, exchange) ; 19 North American ants (208940, 210623).
Grey, Mrs. Marion. (See Chicago Natural History Museum.)
Grice, George D., Jr. Gainesville, Fla. : 12 copepods from Florida (209810, 210372).
Grim, John S. (See New York State Conservation Department.)
Grimes, Miss Virginia Lee, Washington, D. C.: 4 decorated wooden bowls and a painted wood spoon from ezarist Russia, long in possession of the family of donor (210010).
Grupp, George W., Washington, D. C.: 2 stylized wood carvings inlaid with abalone shell, from the Maori, North Island, New Zealand (210149).
Guadagni, G. Donald. (See Kellogg, Dr. Remington.)
Guild, William, St. Petersburg, Pa.: 1 coral from Gulf of Mexico (202339).
Guillemin, Dr.C. (See Paris, University of.)
Guindon, Miss A. M., Washington, D. C.: 1 silver-plated cruet stand and pair of bottles, 1 silver-plated spoon holder (208141).
Haac, Norman, Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 sheet of Chile “Pro Raza” essays, 1925 (210076).
Haentschke, Frank A. Washington, D. C.: 1 color woodcut, “The Old State House, Boston,” by Louis Novak (207386).
Hafez, Prof. M. sity.)
(See Cairo Univer-
Hagn, Dr. Herbert, Munich, Germany: 29 foraminiferal samples from the Cretaceous of Bavaria and 6 from the Tertiary of Australia (207908, 208001, exchange) ; 7 specimens of a foraminifera from the Eocene of Bavaria (207911, exchange); 419 Foraminifera from the Eocene of northern Italy (208064, 208466, exchange).
Halstead, Dr. Bruce W. (See School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine. )
Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 5 first day covers (208007, 209946); 21 U. S., United Nations, and foreign first day covers (209714, 210288, 210781) ; 1 first day of issue FIPEX postal card and 1 FIPEX airmail envelope (210860).
Hamilton, Col. Charles S. (See Taylor, John M.)
Hamilton, Edward P., Milton, Mass.: 1 gear dressing device, 1 watch movement vise (208437).
Hamilton, Warren F. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, National Park Service. )
Hamilton, Dr. William J., Jr., Ithaca, N. Y.: Paratypes of 2 new subspecies of rice rats from Florida (208052).
Hammer, Lt. (jg) Carl, Fairlawn, N. J.: 1 Oliver No. 5 typewriter (208214).
Hamon, Dr. J., Orsay, Seine et Oise, France: 27 mosquitoes from Africa and Europe (207585, exchange).
Hand, Dr. Cadet, Berkeley, Calif.: 21 marine nudibranch mollusks from California (207131).
Hanes, C. R., Schoolcraft, Mich.: 11 grasses from Michigan (209024).
Hanke, Byron, and Hanke, Miss Emily, Washington, D. ©.: Portion of beak of fossil porpoise from Scientists’ Cliffs, Md., collected by donors Sept. 1955 (208941).
Hanke, Miss Emily. Byron.)
Hanson, Charles, Blacksburg, Va.: 1 albino milk snake from Blacksburg, Va., collected by donor (209130).
Hanson, Larry, Lewiston, Idaho: 4 sillimanites from Lewiston (208845) ; 1 sillimanite from Clearwater River, Idaho (209642, exchange).
(See Hanke,

<<<Page: 98>>>

Hardy, Dr. D. Elmo, Honolulu, T. H.: 15 paratype midges from Hawaii (210230). (See also Hawaii, University of.)
Hardy, Jerry David, Baltimore, Md.: 92 reptiles and amphibians from Germany and 12 from Cuba (207754) ; 251 fishes from Cuba, 118 shrimps (207991) ; 1 hutia from Cuba (209803).
Harlow, Francis H., Los Alamos, N. Mex.: 185 fossils of early Pennsylvanian from New Mexico (210287).
Harmon, Jeseph L. (See Harmon, Mrs. Venita W.)
Harmon, Mrs. Venita W. (deceased), Falls Church, Va.: (Through Joseph L. Harmon) Pair of Hochst porcelain figurines, set of 6 carved ivory genre sculptures (209039).
Harper, Francis, Mount Holly, N. J.: 1 crayfish from Mississippi (210258).
Harris, Miss Mary Virginia, Swarthmore, Pa.: 11 articles of uniform clothing of the U. S. Women’s Naval Reserve (WAVE) World War II (207741).
Harry, Dr. Robert R. (See Stanford University. )
Hartz, Miss Helen Post, Baltimore, Md.: 1 plant collected in New York (207842).
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through Prof. Clifford Frondel) 1 muscovite from Blue Mountain, Ontario, 2 wulfenites from Yugoslavia (210476, exchange); 2 andersonites from Parco No. 23 mine, Yellow Cat area, Utah; 1 hewettite, 1 steigerite and 1 navajoite from Monument No. 2 mine, Monument Valley, Ariz. (210719, exchange). Museum of Comparative Zoology: (Through Dr. W. L. Brown) 24 ants from Australia and Baluchistan and Massachusetts (207723, 210639) ; (through Dr. William J. Clench) 610 miscellaneous mollusks (209104, exchange). Peabody Museum: (Through Dr. Henry Field) 21 copepods from Persian Gulf (207277).
Hasbrouck, Frank, Corvallis, Oreg.: 8 moths from Oregon (207729).
Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Miyazaki Prefecture, Japan: (Through Dr. S. Hattori) 50 cryptogams (207415, exchange).
Hattori, Dr. S. (See Hattori Botanical Laboratory.)
Haven, Dexter, Gloucester Point, Va.: 1 crab from Chesapeake Bay (209251).
Hawaii, University of, Honolulu, T. H.: (Through Dr. William A. Gosline) 6 fishes, 1 holotype and 4 paratypes from Hawaii and 1 holotype from Johnston Island (207385, 208362, exchange) ; (through Dr. D. Elmo Hardy) 12 marine midges from Hawaii (207895) ; (through Dr. John EH. Randall) 5 fishes, including 2 holotypes and 3 paratypes, from Hawaiian Islands (209387).
Hayn, Rev. Carl H., S. J. Clara, University of.)
Health, Education and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: Public Health Service: (Through Dr. Everett L. Schiller) 15 mammals from Alaska (206650); (through Dr. F. F. Ferguson) 51 fresh-water mollusks from Puerto Rico (207757); (through Dr. William L. Jellison) 1 bat from Corvallis, Mont. (206937) ; 12 treehoppers and 59 beetles from Montana (208070, 209802). National Microbiological Institute: 2 bats from Montana (207690). Food and Drug Administration: (Through W. D. Moss) 1 Becker balance (210146).
Hedgpeth, Dr. Joel W., La Jolla, Calif.: Approximately 35 copepods (178862).
Heide, Prof. F. (See Mineralogische Institut der Friedrich-Schillar-Universitit.)
Heinmuller, John P. V., New York, N. Y.: Swiss stamp collection, 2,158 specimens (209048).
Hendricks, Miss Marjory, Rockville, Md.: Child’s blue serge dress with jacket (209707).
Henry, G. Edward, Kensington, Md.: 1 junco (210651).
Herald, Dr. Earl S. Academy of Sciences.)
Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 57 phanerogams from Brazil (206418).
Herman, Dr. F. J., Beltsville, Md.: 42 phanerogams (209510). (See also Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Agricul-
(See Santa
(See California

<<<Page: 99>>>

tural Research Service, Horticultural Crops Research Branch.)
Hermanoff, Irvin, Winokur, Seymour, and Winokur, Dr. William, Detroit, Mich.: 2,389 Parma and Papal States pre-stamp covers (209392).
Heron, Lloyd, Worland, Wyo.: 1 ammonite from Big Horn County, Wyo. (208953).
Herring, H. W., Hattiesburg, Miss. : (Through Justice, U. S. Department of) skull without lower jaw of middle aged female (209189).
Hertlein, Dr. Leo G. Academy of Sciences.)
Hess, Mrs. Frank L., Bethesda, Md.: 100 miscellaneous minerals and rocks (209204).
Hiatt, Dr. Robert. ergy Commission.)
Higa, Shuhei. (See Ryukyu Islands, Government of the.)
Higman, James B. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Hiltermann, Dr. H., Hannover, Germany: 17 Foraminifera, Cretaceous of northern Germany (209208); 6 paratypes of a foraminifer, Cretaceous of Germany (209263, exchange); 9 foraminiferal samples, Recent of the Bay of Naples, Italy (209684).
Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottesville, Va.: 7 ostracods, including holotype, allotype, morphotype (207780) ; 3 type specimens of crayfish (210260).
Hoberlandt, Dr. L., Prague, Czechoslovakia: 10 plant and duff bugs from Prague (205119).
Hodge, Dr. Walter H., Kennett Square, Pa.: 549 phanerogams, 21 ferns from Colombia (208867); 222 ferns from Dominica (208872).
Hodges, Lt. Comdr. J. C., Annapolis, Md.: 1 molar tooth of mastodon collected at Patuxent River near crossing of Annapolis-Washington road (207845).
Hoff, Dr. C. Clayton, Albuquerque, N. Mex.: 274 land snails from New Mexico (210706).
Hoffman, Richard L., Blacksburg, Va. : 3 hanging flies from Virginia (208639).
Hofker, Dr. J., The Hague, Holland:
(See California
(See Atomic En-
6 Foraminifera from the Recent of the Pacific and Cretaceous of Holland (207907, exchange); 28 Foraminifera and 2 foraminferal samples from the Tertiary of New Jersey (209207).
Holle, Prof. Paul A., Durham, N. H.: 19 mollusks from Texas (208820).
Homan, B. H., Jr., New York, N. Y.: Specialized collections of Spain No. 1 and Russian local stamps (208932).
Honolulu Zoo, Honolulu, T. H.: (Through P. L. Breese) 1 rock wallaby from the Island of Oahu, Hawaii (210064).
Hoogstraal, Dr. Harry, New York, N. Y.: 4 ticks from Egypt (207623) ; holotype, allotype, and 1 paratype of a tick from Egypt (210226).
Hopkins, George K. Hammond, ind.: 1 Stock Transfer certificate with $2 New York Stock Transfer revenue, 1 $2 U. S. Stock Transfer revenue (207902); 3 U. 8S. revenues on documents (209942).
Hopkins, Dr. Sewell H., College Station, Tex.: 8 fresh-water mollusks from Colorado (207673).
Hora, Dr. S. L. ment of.)
Horlbeck, Mrs. F. H., Charleston, S. C.: 1 phanerogam (210764).
Hornibrook, Dr. N. De B., Wellington, New Zealand: 5 Foraminifera, Eocene of New Zealand (207909, exchange).
Hosler, Mrs. Miriam D., Honey Brook, Pa.: 1 sample of overshot coverlet (206774) ; 6 specimens of weaving work done by Peter Stauffer, early 19th century (206911, loan).
Hotchkiss, Dr. A. T., Sydney, Australia: 23 plants collected in Australia (207506) ; 80 phanerogams, 6 ferns (208207).
Hotchkiss, Neil. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Hough, Dr. M. Jean, Washington, D. C.: 160 fossil vertebrate remains collected by Dr. Hough and Robert DeMar in 1955 from the Lower Oligocene Cameron Spring fossil locality, Fremont County, Wyo. (208471).
Hovey, Frank L., Montrose, Colo.: (Through Justice, U. S. Department of,
(See India, Govern

<<<Page: 100>>>

Federal Bureau. of Investigation) incomplete skelton of white man (207462).
Howard, Early, Troy, Ala.: 1 cephalopod from the Tertiary of Alabama (208590).
Howell, John Thomas. (See California Academy of Sciences. )
Hubbs, Dr. Clark. (See Texas, University of.)
Huber, Miss Marlene, Baltimore, Md.: Skull portion of fossil whalebone whale and other vertebrae from Calvert Cliffs, Maryland, collected by Mrs. Cecil D. Bowers and donor in 1955 (209956).
Hubricht, Leslie, Louisville, Ky.: 2 leeches, approximately 500 miscellaneous crustaceans, 1 brittle star, and insects (209567).
Hulings, Neil C. (See Magnolia Field Research Laboratory.)
Humiston, Lee, China Lake, Calif. : (Through M. L. Speckels) 6 ulexites from China Lake, 1 cinnabar, from Coso Hot Springs, Calif. (210648).
Humphrey, Dr. William, México, D. F.: 9 foraminiferal samples from the Lower Cretaceous of México (207922).
Hungarian Legation, Washington, D. C.: 5 air mail stamps “Winter Sports” (209524).
Husak, Jerome. Tropical Association. )
Hussey, Dr. R. F., Gainesville, Fla.: 2 plant bugs and 2 water striders from Florida, paratypes (208637).
Hutchison, P. C. (See California, University of, Berkeley.)
Ibarra, Dr. Jorge A., Guatemala: 1 Guatemalan flycatcher (206866). (See also Museu Nacional de Historia Natural.)
Iceland, Government of, Reykjavik: (Through Frimerkjasalan) 66 Icelandic stamps, 4 first day covers (209721, 210242).
Illinois, University of, Urbana, II1.: (Through Dr. G. Neville Jones) 7 ferns (197703) ; (through ‘Dr. Hobart M. Smith) 24 species and subspecies of Mexican reptiles and amphibians, paratypes (208204, exchange).
India, Government of, Calcutta: Geological Survey of India: 1 indialite from
(See American
the Bokaro coal field, India (208610). Zoological Survey of India: (Through Dr. S. L. Hora) 387 copepods (208241, exchange).
Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Sweden: 26 foreign philatelic specimens (208009) ; 5 envelopes with special postmarks (209950, 210788) ; 41 special Swedish cancellations (209709, 210280, 210787, 219858).
Institut Royal des Sciences, Brussels, Belgium: (Through Dr. André Capart) 41 porcellanids from West Africa (186779).
Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica: Science Museum: 137 phanerogams, 2 ferns, and 17 grasses from Jamaica and Haiti (208210, 208444, 209929, exchange) ; 47 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 1 fern from Jamaica (209225, gift-exchange) ; 97 phanerogams from Haiti, collected by George R. Proctor (210603) ; (through George R. Proctor) 31 ferns from Haiti (208286, giftexchange).
Instituto Agronomico do Norte, Belém, Para, Brazil: 76 phanerogams from Brazil collected by Dr. J. Murea Pires (208208) ; (through Dr. J. Murc¢a Pires) 805 phanerogams, 476 grasses, 17 ferns from Brazil collected by George Black and Dr. J. Mure¢a Pires (209961).
Instituto Agronomico do Sul, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: 35 grasses from Brazil collected by Dr. José da Costa Sacco (205196).
Instituto Biolégico de Sarria, Sarria, Barcelona, Spain: 50 phanerogams collected in Brazil by P. Jaime Capell, S. J. (208061).
Instituto Botanico, Madrid, Spain: 100 phanerogams, 32 grasses (209095, exchange).
Instituto de Biologia, México, D. F.: 231 phanerogams, 80 grasses, 4 ferns, collected in México by E. Matuda (207447, 209223).
Instituto de Botanica, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 8 phanerogams from Brazil (208062).
Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, San Isidro, Argentina: 3 phanerogams from Paraguay (207803) ; 354 phanerogams, 54 grasses, 9 ferns, 2 eryptogams from

<<<Page: 101>>>

Argentina and Paraguay (208209, exchange).
Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota, Colombia: 508 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 1 fern from Colombia (207885, 208937).
Instituto de Geologia, México, D. F.: 17 sublimates from Paricutin volcano, México, collected by Dr. J. Gonzalez R. (207627).
Instituto Interamericano de Ciencias Agricolas, Turrialba, Costa Rica: 1 fern from Costa Rica (208871).
Instituto de Pesquisas Agronomicas, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil: 15 phanerogams from Brazil (207466).
Interior, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: Fish and Wildlife Service: 50 philatelic specimens (208075) ; 84 marine mollusks, including 1 holotype and 13 paratypes of new subspecies, from Gulf of Mexico (209377); 1,310 birds from various parts of North America (210605) ; 229 mammals (210888) ; (through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 1,269 specimens of crustaceans and other invertebrates, also fishes and insects (206422) ; 185 marine mollusks and 15 corals from the Gulf of Mexico and Florida (209754) ; (through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and Stewart Springer) 522 fishes from the Gulf of Mexico (206648) ; (through Stewart Springer) 1 shrimp collected by John Murray off Georges Bank (206846) ; (through Gus Sundstrom) 2383 fishes and 12 marine invertebrates from the Gulf of Mexico collected by Mr. Sundstrom while on the Oregon (206884) ; (through Dr. William S. Davis) 11 specimens of copepods, 22 specimens of isopods (207453) ; (through Dr. Albert L. Tester) 8 fishes from the Pacific and 1 storm petrel (207792, 208995) ; (through Abe Fleminger) approximately 220 copepods (208160) ; (through Neil Hotchkiss) 2 ferns from Florida (208416) ; (through Paul T. Jensen) 1 fish from Eel River, Calif. (208955); (through Robert T. Mitchell) 184 midges from North America (210220, exchange); (through Dr. Osear Sette and Dr. Joseph BH. King) 1,647 fishes from Oceania (210576) ; (through James B. Higman) 3 fishes
from Bowers Cruise No. 2 (210593). Geological Survey: 20 marine mollusks, 2 sponges, 1 alcyonarian from Corwin Bluff, Northwest Alaska, collected by Edward G. Sable (205017); 1 andersonite from San Juan County, Utah (206954) ; 1 collection of late Tertiary fish material from Humboldt County, Nev. (208022); 99 phanerogams collected in Nevada and Idaho by Robert R. Coats (208185) ; 27 fossil fish from Newark Canyon formation, Nev., 2 magnetites from Bernardston, Mass., and 1 from unknown locality, 8 Recent mollusks and specimens in ecologic association from Saipan, and 4 small clumps of wet and dry material from Page Bay, Guam (209008) ; 75 Ordovician mollusks from Bolivia collected by H. A. Tourtelot (210200) ; 88 rocks, ores, and minerals from Isle of Pines, Cuba, Washington State, South Dakota, California, Connecticut, and Utah (210252); 990 phanerogams, 101 grasses, 106 ferns from Micronesia, collected by F. R. Fosberg (210641) ; (through Dr. Preston E. Cloud, Jr.) approximately 750 land and fresh-water mollusks from the Pleistocene of Utah (199828); 3 land snails from Saudi Arabia (204356) ; (through Dr. J. E. Feth) 181 land and fresh-water mollusks from the Pleistocene of Utah (205147) ;_ (through Dr. Arthur A. Baker) approximately 450 specimens of vertebrate and invertebrate fossils from variety of localities in Alaska, Arabia, and United States at horizons ranging from Ordovician to Recent, collected by staff members of the Geological Survey during recent years (206953) ; (through Dr. William Wrather) 20 rocks and 16 duplicates from Pagan Island (207693) ; (through Dr. Thomas B. Nolan) 34 thin sections of Pennsylvanian and Permian fusulinids and 20 petrologic specimens, Horseshoe Atoll, Tex., 15 brachiopods from México, collected by Carl Fries; 363 specimens in 71 mounted slides lower Tertiary Foraminifera, Aleutian Islands; (208184); 187 specimens of fossil vertebrates (209336) ; 54 miscellaneous minerals and ores from various localities (209341) ; 4 coffinites from La Sal No. 2 mine, Mesa County, Colo.;

<<<Page: 102>>>

1 uraniferous pebble conglomerate from Pronto mine, Ontario, Canada; 1 montroseite and roscoelite from Rifle District, Colo.; 1 bastnaesite from Redstone granite, Westerley, R. I.; 3 abernathyites from Fuemrol mine, Temple Mountain, Utah; 4 autunites from Daybreak Mine, Spokane, Wash.; 5 faheyeites from Sapucaia pegmatite, Minas Gerais, Brazil; 3 bassetites from Red Bluff Mine, Gila County, Ariz. (210883) ; (through Dr. B. L. Yochelson) approximately 75 land mollusks from Texas (208773); (through Miss Hleanor Thompson) 14 specimens of uranium from Utah and Colorado (209646) ; (through Dr. C. Wythe Cooke) approximately 500 land shells from Puerto Rico (210062). National Park Service: 470 phanerogams, 30 grasses, 36 ferns, 42 cryptogams, from Alaska, collected by Victor H. Cahalane (210006) ; (through Willard E. Dilley) 1 fern from Arizona (209985) ; (through Warren F. Hamilton) 4 grizzly bears (207859) .
Iowa, State University of, Iowa City, Iowa: 417 phanerogams, 39 grasses, 15 ferns (209873, exchange) ; 292 phanerogams, 6 grasses, 6 ferns, from Florida and Iowa collected by Dr. Robert F. Thorne (210836, exchange).
Irwin, H. S., Georgetown, British Guiana: 47 phanerogams, collected in Venezuela (208059).
Ishikawa, Prof. Toshio, Sapporo, Japan: 1 pickeringite, 2 sassolites, from ‘Syowa Shinzan, Usu volcano, Hokkaido, Japan (208472, exchange).
Israel, Minister of Posts of, Jerusalem: (Through Moshe Cohen) 30 stamps on presentation booklet (210780).
Jacobson, Dr. Arvid. (See Wayne University. )
Jacobson, Morris K., Rockaway Beach, N. Y.: 12 marine mollusks from New York (208751).
Jago, John B., San Francisco, Calif. : 1 smithsonite (207019, exchange).
James, Dr. Maurice T., Pullman, Wash.: 10 flies from Washington (208715, exchange); 1 paratype flesh fly (210227).
Jameson, Prof. E. W., Davis, Calif. : 5 slides of mites from California, including 3 holotypes (208635) ; holotype and allotype slides of fleas from Korea (208641).
Jamnback, Hugo, Albany, N. Y.: 15 salt marsh mollusks from Long Island, N. Y. (208754).
Jardin Botanique de l’Etat, Brussels, Belgium: (Through Dr. F. Demaret) 100 Belgian bryophytes (208054, exchange).
Jaume, Miguel L., Havana, Cuba: 2 toads from Camaguey, Cuba (208663). (See also Museo y Biblioteca de Zoologia de la Habana).
Jeffcott, Col. George F., Arlington, Va.: 1 wooden clarinet, ca. 1800 (209040).
Jellison, Dr. William L., Hamilton, Mont.: 19 insects from Nebraska and Montana (207511). (See also Heaith, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service.)
Jenni, Col. Clarence, Los Angeles, Calif.: 1 scawtite from Commercial Quarry, Crestmore, Calif. (207534, exchange).
Jensen, Paul, Northfield, Minn.: 8 earthworms, 18 isopods (206662).
Jensen, Paul T. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominican Republic: 359 phanerogams, 20 grasses, 36 ferns from Dominican Republic (206782, 207412, 208440, 208791, 209796, 210398).
Johnson, Donald R. Washington, D. C.: 170 insects from Indonesia and 215 insects world wide (210848).
Johnson, Dr. Frank H., Princeton, N. J.: Approximately 25 specimens of chaetognaths (208156).
Johnson, Rear Admiral Jesse, Norfolk, Va.: 1 silver ash tray (2089383).
Johnston, Clement M., Arlington, Va.: 1 Haida type painted basketry hat from the North Pacific Coast (208607).
Johnstown Stamp Club, Johnstown, Pa.: (Through Walter W. Sievers) 1 mint U. S. “Fipex” souvenir sheet, 1 first day cover, 3¢ “Fipex” commemorative (210771).

<<<Page: 103>>>

Jokelson, Paul, New York, N. Y.:
Kernodle, George H., Washington,
Sulphide paperweight containing por-|D. C.: 1 brass peg lamp (208458).
trait of Lafayette made by Baccarat, 1955 (208877).
Jones, C., Kerrville, Tex.: 56 flies from Texas (210633).
Jones, Dr. E. T. (See Wales, University College of.)
Jones, Dr. Frank Morton, Wilmington, Del.: 4,400 moths, world wide (210852).
Jones, Dr. G. Neville. University of.)
Justice, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: $33 cut and polished agquamarine stones from Brazil received through United States Marshal, Miami, Fla. (206597). (See also Hovey, Frank L., and Herring, H. W.)
Justice, Lt. Col. William J., Falls Church, Va., 2 Roman earthenware vessels from Stuttgart, Germany (210598).
Kaicher, Mrs. John J., Washington, D. C.: 2 marine mollusks from Indonesia and Florida (209190).
Kansas, University of, Lawrence, Kans.: (Through Dr. Rollin H. Baker) A “horned” cottontail rabbit from Kansas (206578).
Keenan, Charles J., Portland, Oreg.: 4 eacheted “railroad” envelopes (2095385).
Keenan, C. M. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Kellogg, Dr. Remington, Washington, D. C.: 4 specimens of metered mail of Norway, Germany, Canada, and Veneguela (209953).
Kellogg, Dr. Remington, Pearce, Franklin L., and Guadagni, G. Donald, Washington, D. C.: 1 skull collected in Fairhaven Cliffs, Md., by donors, Sept. 1955 (209807).
Kempf, Dr. Walter K., Agudos, Brazil: 127 ants from South America (209374, 210621, exchange); (through Dr. W. L. Brown) 1 ant from South America (207624).
Kentucky, University of, Lexington, Ky.: (Through Dr. J. M. Carpenter) 914 fishes, mostly South American, from William Ray Allen collection (206074).
(See Illinois,
Kerrich, G. J., London, England: 25 flies from the Island of Mauritius (209221). (See also Great Britain, Government of, Commonwealth Institute of Entomology.)
Kiggen, J. J. (See Netherlands, Government of the.)
Kilpatrick, Gen. Judson (deceased) : Skeleton of an infant from Arica, Peri (206776).
Kimbell, Charles L. Washington, D. C.: Approximately 20 fossil porpoise and whale remains from the Maiocene Calvert formation of Maryland (209955).
King, Mrs. Benjamin, Washington, D. C.: Bridesmaid’s dress worn at the wedding of Miss Jessie Wilson, daughter of President Wilson, to Francis B. Sayre in the White House, 1913 (208884) .
King, Herbert F., Washington, D. C.: 1 U. S. National flag with 34 stars (208701).
King, Dr. Joseph E. (See Interior, U. 8S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Kiplinger, Willard M., Washington, D. C.: Two-wheeled baby carriage, ca. 1858 (207740).
Kirk, Mrs. Page, Charlottesville, Va.: 170 specimens of American pottery from the Edwin Kirk collection of American ceramics and art glass, including selections from Rookwood, Owens, Roseville, Weller, Van Briggle, Grueby, Pewabic, Hampshire, McLaughlin, Pisgah Forest,
Marblehead, and _ other’ potteries (208838) . Kléckner-Humboldt-Deutz, Cologne,
Germany: 1 Otto and Langen gas engine (207779).
Klute, Miss Jeannette, Rochester, N. Y.: 50 color prints for special exhibition September-October, 1955
(208218, loan). Knobloch, Dr. Irving.
State College.) Knowlton, Dr. G. F., Logan, Utah: 2
wasps from Utah, holotypes (210221). Knox, Robert W. (See Commerce,
(See Michigan

<<<Page: 104>>>

U. S. Department of, Coast and Geodetic Survey.)
Koch, Dr. Leo, New Orleans, La.: 64 bryophytes from U. S. (209086). (See also Tulane University.)
Kolie, Mrs. Gustave O., Russellville, Ark.: Approximately 2,000 marine mollusks from the Atlantic coast of Panama (199401).
Komarek, Dr. E. V., Thomasville, Ga.: 297 mammals from Georgia (210213).
Kondo, Dr. Y. (See Bishop Museum, Bernice P.)
Kopf, Rudolph, Price, Utah: 200 brachiopods of the Ordovician from Ontario, Canada (208612) ; 12 gastropods and crinoids from Arkona shale of Ontario, 200 gastropods from the Kashong shale, western New York (209958).
Korea, Government of, Washington, D. C.: (Through Ambassador You Chan Yang) sheet of Korean stamps (209800).
Kormilev, Dr. N. A., Buenos Aires, Argentina: 2 palm bugs and 4 Neuroptera (206719, exchange).
Koster, Dr. J. Th. (See Rijksherbarium.)
Kott, Mrs. George, Nairobi, Kenya, Africa: 3 hermit crabs from Ethiopia and Athens, Greece, and mollusk specimens (208025).
Kramer, Karl U. (See Botanisch Museum en Herbarium.)
Kramer, Miss Rosalie, Atlantic City, N. J.; 2 large triangular lace shawls, bobbin-made in Caen on Chantilly, France (208116).
Kramer, Wilhelm, Velkert, Germany : 1 “Westropa”’ first day card (209719).
Krauss, N. L. H., Honolulu, T. H.: 11 land snails from Savannah Beach, Ga. (208018); 175 beetles from México (208544) ; 40 land snails from Florida (208550).
Krombein, Dr. Karl V., Arlington, Va.: 221 wasps from North America (208627, 210622) ; 2 wasps from Lost River State Park, W. Va., holotype (209217); holotype, allotype and 2 paratypes of wasps from North Carolina (210225).
Krombein, Dr. Louis H., Derby, N. Y.: 52 insects from Oak Creek Canyon, Ariz. (207510).
Kroog, Frederick, Atlanta, Ga.: (Through Rev. Louie D. Newton) 1 United States flag with 383 stars, colored map of State of New York published in 1832, pamphlet on laws governing Massachusetts Militia, 1800, Cobb’s Juvenile reader, 1832 (210673).
Kriiger, Prof. Fr., Miinster, Germany : 60 marine mollusks from Naples, Italy (209346).
Krukoff, B. A. Rahway, N. J.: 34 plants (210729).
Kuno, Dr. Hisashi. University. )
Kupper, Dr. Klaus, Stanford, Calif. : 2 slabs of rock containing topotype specimens of foraminifers, Hocene of California (209687).
L’Abbe, Wilfred Emile, Takoma Park, Md.: German Psalter printed in Philadelphia, 1806, and German Luther Bible printed in Basel, Switzerland, 1798 (209088).
LaBerge, W. E., Lawrence, Kans.: 8 bees, including paratypes, from Kansas (210234).
Laboratorio Astrofisico, Vatican City, Italy : (Through Father H. W. Salpeter, S. J.) 2 meteorites, Rio Negro, from Brazil, and Kermichel, from France (207501, exchange).
LaGorce, Mrs. John Oliver, Washington, D. C.: 65 marine mollusks from Belgium (207598).
Lamb, F. M., Topeka, Kans.: 53 plants collected in Colombia (207888).
Lambert, Dr. Robert, Ottawa, Ontario: 5 wasps from Canada (208783).
Lambie, Miss Margaret, and Lambie, Morris Bryan, Washington, D. C.: 3 photographie portraits by Napoleon Sarony of James Bryan, Henrietta M. H. Bryan, and Henrietta BH. B. Lambie (210055).
Lambie, Morris Bryan. Miss Margaret.)
Lamm, Donald W., Accra, Gold Coast: 145 birds, 10 mammals from Gold Coast (210038).
Lamont Geological Observatory, Palisades, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Robert J. Menzies) 1 isopod (208426).
Landsperger, Mr. and Mrs. Norman,
(See Tokyo
(See Lambie,

<<<Page: 105>>>

Greensburg, Pa.: 1 pair of ladies’ velvet oxfords, ca. 1885 (207898).
Lane, Dr. John, Sio Paulo, Brazil: 31 flies from Brazil (207583). (See also Universidade de Sao Paulo.)
Lange, Dr. W. Harry, Davis, Calif. : 87 moths from Saipan (210232).
Latham, Roger. (See Pennsylvania Game Commission.)
Latham, Dr. V. A. Chicago, Ill.: 1 sample of fossil diatom material (209035).
Learnard, R. A., Washington, D. C.: 1 francolin (208312).
Leclercq, Dr. Jean, Liége, Belgium: 4 wasps from Europe (208645).
Lederle Laboratories Division, American Cyanamid Company, Pearl River, N. Y.: 4 samples of achromycin hydrochloride (209195).
Lee, Pil Suk, Washington, D. C.: 1 Korean man’s tailored coat of brocaded satin (210469).
LeFevre, Rufus H., Tamaqua, Pa.: 1 peacock from Assam (208313).
Leigh, Lewis, Chantilly, Va.: 1 mint copy “Rocky Run Local Post” 5 cents, 1 copy of above dated July 18, 1955, on cover,, identified as “First day of Issue, Second Printing” and autographed by sponsor (206875).
Lenox, Inc. Trenton, N. J.; Sample of Truman-Kisenhower service plate, dinner plate, teacup and saucer (207400).
' Leonard, Capt. William B. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Lester, Dr. J. G. versity. )
Letkemann, Herkus W. J., Washington, D. C.: Fetus of finback whale (206957).
Levi-Castillo, Dr. Roberto, Guayaquil, Ecuador: 138 plants from Heuador (208616, 209928).
Lewin, Dr. Ralph, La Jolla, Calif.: 10 samples of diatoms (210330).
Lewis, Col. B. R., San Francisco, Calif.: 240 archeological specimens from Korea (204093).
Lewis, Dr. Franklin B., Jr., Storrs, Conn.: 3 type specimens of biting midges from Connecticut (207731).
(See Emory Uni-
Lewis, Keith. Co.)
Liberia, Republic of: (Through Liberian Philatelic Agency) 6 mint Liberian stamps (208708); 3 Interna-tional Rotary Golden Jubilee Liberian stamps, 1 Rotary International Souvenir sheet (209528); 7 specimens of Liberian postage stamps (210779).
Liberian Philatelic Agency. Liberia, Republic of.)
Liddy, D. E., Corpus Christi, Tex.: 2 silk spiders from Texas (208634).
Lightner Museum of Hobbies, St. Augustine, Fla.: Archeological material consisting entirely of shell objects from Spiro Mound, Okla. (210052, loan). :
Limbaugh, Conrad. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography. ) Lindhard, Miss Kirsten. hard, Mrs. Rigmor Lytzen. )
Lindhard, Mrs. Rigmor Lytzen (deceased) : (Through Miss Kirsten Lindhard) Ethnographical specimens from the Eastern Eskimo, Greenland, consisting of a 4-piece costume; 3 necklace eollars; 1 carriage robe; 11 specimens of Greenland Eskimo trade crafts in ivory (210600).
Lindquist, H. L., New York, N. Y.: 1 first day cover, Sweden’s “Stockholmia 55” exhibition stamp on cacheted envelope (208012).
Linsley, Dr. E. Gorton, Berkeley, Calif.: 4 paratypes of mantispids from California (210625).
Linsley, Richard H., Thermal, Calif. : 2,000 specimens of plankton from Salton Sea (207532) ; 538 specimens of mysids from San Felipe, México (206847).
Livingston, Elwood, Naples, Fla.: 3 marine mollusks from Florida (209339).
Lochead, James K. (See American Trust Co.)
Locklin, Charles R., St. Petersburg, Fla.: 2 gastropods from Pleistocene of Florida (206779) ; 81 marine mollusks from Florida (209691).
Long, James B., Ambay, Ill: 9 phanerogams from Illinois (208660).
Long, John C. (See Bethlehem Steel Co.)
(See Hastman Kodak
(See
(See Lind

<<<Page: 106>>>

Longhurst, Dr. Alan, Freetown, Sierra Leone, West Africa: 17 porcellanids, including 1 paratype (206656).
Looser, Dr. Gualterio, Santiago, Chile: 1 cultivated fern (206427).
Lotvedt, T., Toronto, Ontario, Canada: 1 isopod (206424).
Lowe, Miss Edith Blinston, Washington, D. C..: Japanese porcelain tea service, 15 pieces silver flatware, English cut glass sweetmeat bowl with silver mount (208319).
Lowenstam, Dr. Heinz A., Pasadena, Calif.: 27 specimens of new species of pelecypod dredged from south shore of Bermuda (210761).
Lowenstein, Ernest, New York, N. Y.: 10 albums of foreign postage stamps (209196).
Loyalty Group, Newark, N. J.: 2 medals commemorating 100th anniversary of Firemen’s Insurance Company of Newark, N. J. (210834).
Ludwig, Miss Julliana, Detroit, Mich.: (Through Herbert R. Axelrod) 3 black angel fish from lLudwig’s Aquarium (208929).
Lura, Sorem, Forest Heights, Md.: 3 cacheted envelopes (209531).
Lyman, Frank, Dozier, Ala.: 7 freshwater shrimps (208655).
Lyon, William J., San Pedro Makati, Rizal, P. I.: 74 Philippine Islands stamps, covers, cards and souvenir books (206738, 210022).
MacCord, Lt. Col. Howard A., Laurel, Md.: Ceramic and stone artifacts from Japan (209693).
Macdonald, Dr. Gordon A., Hawaii National Park, Hawaii: 2 sal-ammoniacs from Kilauea volcano, flow of 1955, Hawaii (209680).
MacFadden, Mrs. Fay A. Los An-
geles, Calif.: 111 cultivated ferns (208986, 210573, exchanges). Mackerras, Dr. I. M., Brisbane,
Queensland, Australia: 5 flies including 3 paratypes, from Australia (207802).
MacRoy, Rey. A., Malakal, Upper Nile Province, Sudan: 87 ethnographical specimens from Hastern Nuer in the environs of Nasir village, on Sobat
396826—56——_7
River, near Ethiopian border, collected by donor about 1950 (208996).
MacSwain, Dr. J. W., Berkeley, Calif. : 1,414 specimens of beetle larvae from North America (210636).
Macurdy, Mrs. Lloyd, Silver Spring, Md.: 1 fossilized liverwort preserved in travertine from Scientists’ Cliffs, Md. (210090).
Magnolia Field Research Laboratory, Dallas, Tex.: (Through Neil C. Hulings) 17 marine mollusks from the Texas coast (210061).
Maguire, Dr. Bassett. York Botanical Garden.)
Maine, University of, Orono, Maine: (Through Dr. W. Harry Everhart and Kendall Warner) 2,550 fishes from the William C. Kendall collection (209849).
Makins, Ambassador Roger N. (See Great Britain, Government of.)
Malkin, S., Washington, D. C.: Cherry stoner and nut cracker of late 19th century, also a hand wrought wafer iron (207597).
Mangor, Elovius. (See Norway, Government of, Norwegian Postal Department.)
Mann, Dr. William M. (See Smithsonian Institution, National Zoological Park.)
Manning, Dr. Thomas H., Ottawa, Canada: Red-backed mouse from Northwest Territories (201864).
Manter, Dr. Harold W., Lincoln, Nebr. : 2 copepods from a yellowfin tuna (209568) ; 5 worms from fishes from Central Pacific (210150).
Marble, Dr. John Putnam, Washington, D. C.: 9 small metal apothecary weights (2073897).
Marble, Dr. John Putnam, Estate of, Washington, D. C.: 6 crucibles, 2 tubular crucibles, dish, balance, 3 sets analytical weights, 1 centrifuge, tongs, mortar and pestle, 1 spectroscope (206607, bequest).
Marble, Mrs. John P., Washington, D. C.: 1 pitchblende, Joachimsthal, Bohemia; 6 allanites from Canada, 1 allanite from California, 1 thalenite from
(See New

<<<Page: 107>>>

Cardiff Township, (210765).
Mariners’ Museum, Newport News, Va.: 1 fly whisk of hibiscus bark, 1 palm spathe headdress, 1 Mexican hatband of plaited horsehair from Panama (209394) .
Marks, Dr. Jay G., Maracaibo, Venezuela: 2 brackish-water mollusks from Venezuela (207555).
Marsh, J. A., Rockhampton, Queensland, Australia: 15 land mollusks from Queensland, Australia (208161, exchange) ; 29 marine and fresh-water mollusks from Australia (210839).
Marshall, Mrs. Edward, Lucketts, Va.: 48 specimens women’s and children’s costumes and accessories, English, 19th century (208223).
Marshall, Dr. J. T., Jr. (See National Research Council, Pacific Science Board.)
Martin, Dr. Charles H., Corvallis, Oreg.: 83 robber flies from the United States (209280, exchange).
Martin, S. F. (See Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle.)
Martin, Hemme, Gilroy, Calif.: 1 nephrite jade from Trinity River, Weaverville, Calif. (209451).
Martindale, Mrs. William E., Harrisburg, Pa.: Jack made of boiled leather, with silver mount around mouth opening, late 17th century (210219).
Maryland Board of Natural Resources, Solomons, Md.: (Through Fred W. Sieling) 4 marine mollusks from Virginia and Maryland (209668).
Maskell, Mrs. Margaret I., Victoria, Australia: Battle flag of the destroyer H. M. A. S. Napier in a wooden display box (208602).
Mason, Dr. W. R. M. (See Canada, Government of, Department of Agriculture.)
Masonic Stamp Club of New York, New York, N. Y.: 1 first day cover (2095387).
Mather, Dr. Wharton B., Brisbane, Australia: 40 flies from Australia (209340).
Matsunaga, Takashi, Tokyo, Japan: 12 Foraminifera from the Pliocene and Recent of Japan (207914, exchange).
Ontario, Canada
Mattingly, P. F. (See Great Britain, Government of, British Museum (Natural History).)
McCall, Francis J. Washington, D. C.: 31 U. S. embossed envelopes, unused, 1923-1956 (210856).
McChesney, Albert G., Estate of: (Through George F. Cramer) 1 U. S. officer’s sword and decorated scabbard, 2 wedgeweave Navajo Indian blankets (210176, bequest).
McChesney, Mrs. Jane E., Washing: ton, D. C.: 2 Japanese swords and 1 U. S. Army sword (210648).
McComas, Henry C., Baltimore, Md.: Collection of 50 life and death masks and 13 busts of famous American, German, French, Italian and English statesmen, authors and actors (208780).
McCornell, Prof. Duncan, Columbus, Ohio: 3 volkonskoite from the Morrison formation near Thompson, Utah (208118).
McDonald, Marshall E., Babbitt, Nev.: Pipe-tomahawk carved from catlinite from quarry near Pipestone, Minn. (209648).
McGinty, Thomas L., Boynton Beach, Fla.: 16 marine mollusks from Florida (210094).
McGuinness, A. L., Portland, Oreg.: Ilvaite from Idaho; natrolite, stilbite, laumontite from Washington; heulandite, gmelinite, natrolite, stilbite, and analcite from Oregon (208388, exchange).
McIntosh, Allen. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural Research Service, Animal Disease and Parasite Research Branch.)
McKee, Dr. H. S., Noumea, New Caledonia: 70 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 32 ferns from Fiji (208057).
McKeever, Dr. Sturgis, Camilla, Ga.: 2 fleas from North America (210231).
McKim, Mrs. W. Duncan, Washington, D. C.: 17 items of religious and secular art, mostly in worked silver by Oriental, European and American eraftsmen, long in the possession of donor’s family (210599).
McLaren, Dr. D. J. (See Canada, Government of, Geological Survey of Canada.) :

<<<Page: 108>>>

McLean, James, Alexandria, Va.: 14 paratype slides of Foraminifera from the Miocene Yorktown formation of Virginia (207848) ; 2 holotype slides of Foraminifera, 1 foraminiferal sample from the Tertiary of New Jersey (209206) ; 97 foraminiferal slides from the Cretaceous and Tertiary of Brazil (210403).
McMahan, Elizabeth, Durham, N. C.: 12 North American dragonflies (207783).
Meanley, Brooke, Alexandria, La.: 1 pocket mouse from Louisiana (209192).
Meitzen, Dr. Travis C., Refugio, Tex. : 2 hawks from México (207685).
Melnick, Dr. Joseph L. (See Yale University School of Medicine.)
Melson, Robert, Shields, Va.: 1 bryozoan from the floor of Chesapeake Bay (209574).
Menzies, Dr. Robert J., Palisades, N. Y.: 229 isopods, including holotype and paratype, and 5 crabs (206094, 209099). (See also Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and Lamont Geological Observatory. )
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, N. J.: 1 exhibit titled “Vitamins for Health, Growth and Life’ containing 10 plastic, revolving globes housing actual samples of various vitamins, together with 4 painted illustrations and descriptions of classical vitamin deficiency diseases of scurvy, rickets, pellegra and beriberi (209504).
Meriden Gravure Co., Meriden, Conn.: Materials for preparation of exhibit on collotype (208216).
Meyer, Maj. Gen. G. Ralph, El Paso, Tex.: 9 bird eggs (210607).
Miami, University of, Coral Gables, Fla.: (Through Prof. Oscar T. Owre) 1 Wheatear (209176).
Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 350 plants collected in Southeastern United States and México (207414, exchange); 100 plants from Texas collected by M. Anthony (207416, exchange); (through Dr. Reeve M. Bailey) 40 fishes from Lake Superior (204984, exchange); (through Alan Solem) 2 paratypes of land mollusks from Brazil (207503); (through Dr.
Henry van der Schalie) approximately 5,950 land and fresh-water mollusks of North America mostly from Canada (208315, exchange).
Michigan State College, East Lansing, Mich.: 3 ferns from México (207698) ; (through Dr. Irving Knobloch) 2 phanerogams from México (208897).
Middle Tennessee State College, Murfreesboro, Tenn.: 90 phanerogams from Tennessee (208790).
Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington, D. C.: 1 metal cork press, 1 Rockingham ware mask pitcher, 1 redware pottery jar, and 1 paper lampshade (207392, 208455, 209937).
Miles, Mr. and Mrs. Arnold, Washington, D. C.: Child’s black and white pin-check silk dress with red satin vestee and cuffs, ca. 1880 (210153).
Miller, Dr. A. K., Iowa City, Iowa: 17 brachiopods from the Devonian of Ellesmere Island, Arctic (210286).
Miller, Carl I. (See Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Hthnology.)
Miller, Dr. George C., Ilwaco, Wash. : 40 marine mollusks from Madagascar (208181).
Miller, Gerrit S. Jr., Washington, D. C.: 1 water snake (210446).
Miller, John. (See Weston Electrical Instrument Corp.)
Miller, Commander Walter B., Falls Church, Va.: 6 fresh-water mussels from Florida (210592).
Mineralogische Institut der Friedrich-Schiller-Universitat, Jena, Germany: (Through Prof. F. Heide) 1 specimen iron-boracite from Kaliwerk Thomas Munzer, Germany (209296, exchange).
Mineralogisk-Geologisk Museum, Oslo, Norway: (Through Dr. Johannes A. Dons) 14 rocks from Fen Area, Norway (210474, exchange).
Ministerio de Agricultura, bamba, Bolivia: 4 phanerogams, grasses from Bolivia (208964).
Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria, Caracas, Venezuela: 86 phanerogams, 50 grasses, 1 fern from Venezuela col-
Cocha67

<<<Page: 109>>>

lected by Dr. (206724, 209226).
Ministry of Agriculture, Kumasi, Gold Coast: 206 grasses from Gold Coast, collected by Cecil EF. Charter (205158).
Minneapolis Women’s Philatelic Society, St. Paul, Minn.: 1 cacheted envelope (209947).
Minto, Walter L., Westwood, N. J.: 1 fluorescent thorite from Montana (210151).
Missouri, University of, Columbia, Mo.: 8 grasses from Missouri (208815).
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Mo.: (Through Dr. George B. Van Schaack) 32 ferns from United States and México, mostly collected by Dr. and Mrs. R. M. ‘Tryon (208787, exchange).
Mitchell, Robert T. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Mockford, Edward L., Frederick, Md. : 26 psocids from Central and North America (207726).
Mohlenbrock, Robert H., St. Louis, Mo.: 1 fern from Illinois (206788).
Moldenke, Dr. Harold N., Yonkers, N. Y.: 1 plant from Indo-China (209363).
Monaco, Government of, Ojice des Emissions de Timbres-Postes, Monte Carlo: (Through Henry Gamerdinger) 69 stamps and 1 first day cover from Monaco; 17 specimens of the Royal Wedding Issue (210245, 210784).
Monk, Richard, Anniston, Ala.: (Through H. BH. Wheeler) 1 cast iron object supposed to have been cast at Anniston, Alabama, during Civil War and used as a projectile in cannister by the Confederate artillery (209120).
Monod, Dr. Théodore, Dakar, French West Africa: 83 specimens of porcellanids, including 1 paratype (179286, 182700, 197126).
Montana State College, Bozeman, Mont.: 23 grasses and 1 plant from Montana (206691, 206920, 209458).
Montreal Botanical Garden, Montreal, Canada: 10 phanerogams and 13 ferns from Tahiti (207697) ; 98 phanerogams, 13 grasses, 5 ferns from Canada
Francisco Tamayo
(209361, exchange) ; 6 plants from Canada (209931).
Moore, Dr. Ian, El Cajon, Calif.: 4 paratype beetles from California (207580).
Moore, Dr. Walter G., New Orleans, La.: 15 fairy shrimps (208554).
Morales, Evaristo, San Jose, Costa Rica: 46 beetles from Costa Rica (208785).
Moreman, Dr. W. L., Dallas, Tex.: 40 type slides of Foraminifera from the Ordovician, Silurian and Devonian of Oklahoma (210085).
Morgan, Grace. Frank.)
Morgan, Vincent, Boron, Calif.: 1 beta-inderite, 1 inderite, and 2 ulexites from Boron, Calif. (2083887, exchange).
Morris, Mrs. George Maurice, Washington, D. C.: Pine paneling, including fireplace and overmantel, dado, cornice, built-in cupboard, stair rail, and door, from house in Sussex, Va. (202516, purchase-gift).
Morris, Robert, Aramco, Dhahran,
(See Carson,
Saudi Arabia: 1 paratype ostracod from the Silurian of Tennessee (207820).
Morris, Robert W., Taft, Calif.: 11 Silurian ostracods from Tennessee, 15 insects from the Pleistocene of California (208718).
Morrison, W. F., Sherman, Tex.: 1 coniferous wood specimen from Cretaceous of Texas (207525).
Morton, C. V., Washington, D. C.: 24 phanerogams, 1 grass, 5 ecryptogams (207887).
Moss, W. D. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Food and Drug Adminisiration.)
Mozley, Dr. Alan, Red Pass Junction, British Columbia, Canada: 13 freshwater mollusks from British Columbia (207612, 207980).
Mrose, Miss Mary, Washington, D. C.: 4 hurlbutite from Newport, N. H. (210477).
Mucenieks, Robert, Baltimore, Md.: 3 silver coins from Republie of Latvia (210167).
Mueller, Dr. Klaus J. Iowa City,

<<<Page: 110>>>

Iowa: 1 foraminiferal sample from the Oligocene of Germany (209210).
Muir-Wood, Dr. H. M. (See Great Britain, Government of, British Museum (Natural History).)
Mumford, R. E. (See Purdue University.)
Murray, Dr. James J., Lexington, Va.: 1 waterthrush (210606).
Murray, John. (See Virginia Polytechnic Institute.)
Muscatine, Leonard, Berkeley, Calif. : 8 parasitic isopods, including holotype, allotype, and paratypes (209342).
Museo Argentino de Ciencias, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 2 blue _ finches (207518, exchange); 16 ferns from Argentina (210369).
Museo Civico di Storia Naturale, Genova, Italy: 9 fishes mainly from Hurope (208123, exchange); (through Prof. Enrico Tortonese) 7 mammals from Libya (208145, exchange).
Museo de Historia Natural “Javier Prado”, Lima, Peri: 50 phanerogams, 63 grasses from Peri (206918, 207788, 208097, 208333, 208335); 73 phanerogams, 8 grasses collected in Pert by Ramén Ferreyra (207886).
Museo Nacional de Arqueologia y Etnografia, México, D. F.: (Through Dr. Philip Drucker) Series of diagnostie stone objects from the La Venta site in Tabasco, México (208860, loan).
Museo y Biblioteca de Zoologia, Havana, Cuba: (Through Dr. Miguel L. Jaume) 96 shrimps and 6 fishes from Cuba (208661, 208662).
Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 11 phanerogams from Brazil (208337).
Museu Nacional de Historia Natural, Campo de La Feria, Guatemala, C. A.: (Through Dr. Jorge A. Ibarra) 38 birds from Guatemala (208605).
Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France: (Through Dr. J. Forest) 11 porcellanids from West Africa (203882).
Museum Van Belgisch Congo, Tervuren, Africa: (Through L. Cahen) 1 bastnaesite from Karonge, Urandi, Central Africa (208478).
Namba, Dr. Ryoji, Honolulu, T. H. : 32
flies including 17 paratypes from Hawaii (207801).
National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C.: 1 pichiciego armadillo from Bolivia (208053); (through Dr. Leonard J. Grant) 2 lichens from Montana and Idaho (208287).
National Museum, Manila, P. I.: 99 phanerogams, 57 grasses and 23 ferns from Philippine Islands (206725, exchange).
National Photographic Society, Washington, D. C.: (Through Harry B. Shaw) 47 monochrome prints and 46 color transparencies by members of National Photographie Society for special exhibition November—December, 1955 (208702, loan).
National Research Council, Pacific Science Board, Washington, D. C.: 61 plants collected by Prof. Edwin T. Moul on Onotoa, Gilbert Islands (206914) ; (through Dr. William A. Niering) approximately 36 hermit and land crabs, 3 Mammals, 85 mollusks, from Kapingamarangi Atoll, Caroline Islands, collected by Dr. Niering (206425); (through Dr. J. T. Marshall, Jr.) 103 mammals and 88 birds from the Caroline Islands (206628).
National Science Museum, Tokyo, Japan: 172 phanerogams, 14 grasses, 12 ferns from Japan (208342, exchange).
National Society for Crippled Children and Adults, Inc., Chicago, Ill.: (Through Miss Helen M. Flynn) 61,900 Easter seals, 1984-1956 (210562).
National Society Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D. C.: (Through Miss Gertrude S. Carraway) 1 soup plate from White House state china used during administration of President Grant (209887, loan).
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, China: 26 plants from Formosa (209780).
Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden: 12 phanerogams from Ecuador (208439); (through Dr. Herman Persson) 105 eryptogams from Scandinavia (207804, exchange); 230

<<<Page: 111>>>

ferns, mostly from Hurope and Asia (210396, exchange).
Nebraska, State of, Department of Health, Lincoln, Nebr.: (Through Dr. W. FE. Rapp, Jr.) 18 land snails from Nebraska (206709).
Needham, R. M., Lancaster, Ohio: 4 U. S. first day covers (209718, 210772).
Neidorf, Charles, New York, N. Y.: 3 photographs of ferns (2083382).
Netherlands, Government of, Administration des Postes, Telegraphes et des Telephones, The Hague: 5 “Queen Wilhelmina Fund” semi-postal stamps, 1955 (208011) ; 1 first day cover and 5 mint stamps “For the Infant” and 1 Netherlands stamp (209530, 209716, 209717) ; 5 Rembrandt 350th anniversary stamps issued 1956 (210746); (through J. J. Kiggen) 2 first day covers bearing values of Rembrandt series (210745).
Neuby-Varty, Bryan, Marandellas, Southern Rhodesia: 1 skeleton of a cuckoo weaver (210148).
New Hampshire, University of, Durham, N. H.: 30 phanerogams, 31 grasses, 1 fern from Alaska (208340, exchange).
New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, New Brunswick, N. J.: (Through J. B. Schmitt) 12 flies from New Jersey, types (210223).
Newton, Rev. Louie D. (See Kroog, Frederick.)
New York, State University of, Syracuse, N. ¥.: 1 wood sample of Taiwan Fir collected in Taiwan (207626, exchange).
New York Botanical Garden, New York, N. Y.: 161 phanerogams and 17 grasses collected in Alaska by Miss Jeannette Stewart (206916, exchange) ; 154 phanerogams, 15 grasses from Venezuela (2077338, exchange); 80 plants, 61 phanerogams and 90 grasses from Venezuela, Brazil and Guiana collected by Bassett Maguire and collaborators (208338, 208339, 208445, 208447); 614 phanerogams and 91 plants collected in South America by Bassett Maguire and collaborators (2093862, 210837, exchange); (through Dr. Bassett Maguire) 45 phanerogams, 191 ferns from Venezuela (2083859).
New York Graphic Society, New
York, N. Y.: 1 collotype reproduction of a painting “Still Life: Le Jour” by Georges Braque (208217).
New York State Conservation Department, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.: (Through John 8. Grim) 1 lot of parasitic worms from New York (205079).
New York Zoological Park, New York, N. Y¥.: (Through Dr. Leonard Goss) 1 Congo peacock (210217).
New Zealand, Government of, Geological Survey Office, Wellington: (Through Dr. C. A. Fleming) 480 Mesozoie and Cenozoic mollusks and brachiopods from New Zealand (206741, exchange).
Nicholson, Donald J., Tuxedo, N. C.: 1 phanerogam from North Carolina (207719).
Niering, Dr. William A. (See National Research Council, Pacific Science
Board.)
Nikié, Lj. (See Yugoslavia, Government of.)
Nininger, H. H., Sedona, Ariz.:
Tambo Quemado meteorite from Pert and Arispe Meteorite (206702, exchange); 14 meteorites from various localities (210766, exchange).
Nisson, William H., Petaluma, Calif. : 1 veatchite from Lang, Calif. (210724).
Nogle, Harold, Port Arthur, Tex.: 1 wood specimen collected along Gulf Coast of Florida (207680).
Nolan, Dr. Thomas B. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey.)
Norfolk Museum, Norfolk, Va.: (Through Roger Rageot) 17 mollusks from Virginia and North Carolina (209437).
Norris, Alexander J. (deceased) : (Through Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Green) Archeological material consisting of textiles, metal, shell, wooden, stone and pottery objects largely from Peri (210410).
North Carolina, University of, Institute of Fisheries Research, Morehead City, N. C.: (Through Dr. A. EF. Chestnut) 10 marine mollusks from North Carolina (210370).
North Dakota Agricultural College, Fargo, N. Dak.: 32 phanerogams, 10

<<<Page: 112>>>

grasses, 1 fern from North Dakota (208348, gift-exchange).
Northern Rhodesia Bird Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 261 skins and 32 skeletons of birds collected by Major Edward lL. Haydock in Northern Rhodesia (209178, deposit).
Norway, Government of, Norwegian Postal Department: 1 air letter sheet (206956) ; (through Torfinn Oftedal) 2 King Haakon Golden Jubilee stamps, and 1 official post card from Norway (208854) ; (through Elovius Mangor) 9 specimens of Norwegian stamps and postal stationery (210120, 210331).
Norwegian Embassy, Washington, D. C.: 13 Norwegian stamps (209249).
Oaks, Orville A., Wilmette, Ill.: 15 woods collected by donor in México and Texas (207679, exchange); 21 study specimens of woods collected with herbarium material in Florida Keys, August 1954, by William L. Stern, Yale University School of Forestry (209792, exchange) ; 1 sample each of 2 species of wood from Jamaica, West Indies, and Oberursel, Germany (210829, exchange).
Ochoa, Dr. C., Huancayo, Perfi: 13 phanerogams from Perti (208418).
Ockelmann, W. K. (See Universitetets Zoologiske Museum).
Oehler, Father, Chicago, Ill.: 3 Mesozoic ammonites from Mindoro Island, Philippines (209213).
Oftedal, Torfinn. (See Norway, Government of, Norwegian Postal Department. )
Ognjenovic, V. Government of.)
Oklahoma, University of, Norman, Okla.: (Through Dr. Stephen F. Borhegyi) 1 plaster cast of carved shell fragment from Spiro Mound, LeFlore County, Okla. (206664, exchange) ; skeleton of pelycosaurian reptile lacking portion of tail, from the Lower Permian Hennessey ' formation near Norman, Okla. (209446, exchange) ; (through Dr. Carl D. Riggs) 438 freshwater mollusks from Lake Texoma, Tex. (209893).
Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechan-
(See Yugoslavia,
ical College, Stillwater, Okla.: 155 grasses (202999).
Old, William E., Jr., Norfolk, Va.: 19 aquarium and 4 miscellaneous fishes (205362) ; 737 miscellaneous mollusks (209488, exchange).
Oldroyd, H. (See Great Britain, Government of, British Museum (Natural History).
Old Sturbridge Village, Sturbridge, Mass.: 1 pottery fragment from site of David Bugbee Pottery, Brimfield, Mass. (209939) .
Oliver, Capt. Frederick L. Cambridge, Mass.: 1 pair of black wool suede spats, ca. 1905 (208072).
Oliver, Smith Hempstone, Washington, D. C.: 1 “Genuine London Supporter” (207391); 1 carriage wrench, 1 Dietzen magnetic compass (208215).
Olsen, Stanley J. (See Florida Geological Survey.)
Olsson, Axel A., Coral Gables, Fla.: 2 marine mollusks from Pert, 6 specimens of fossil material (209103).
Oman, Dr. Paul W. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural Research Service, Entomology Research Branch.)
Orchard, C. D., San Antonio, Tex.: Approximately 50 fresh-water and marine mollusks from Virginia and Massachusetts (206996).
Otago, University of, Dunedin, New Zealand: (Through Dr. D. 8. Coombs) 32 rocks (some analyzed) from various localities in New Zealand (200870, exchange).
Otarion, Inc., Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.: 1 “Listener” hearing aid in clear plastic (210070).
Owen, Robert P., Korror, Palau Islands: 2 skulls of dugongs from the Palau Islands (210714).
Owre, Prof. Oscar T. University of.)
Pabian, Pfc. Roger K., New York, N. ¥.: (Through American Numismatic Association) 1 Italian 50-lire piece, 1955 (210854).
Packard, Fred M., Washington, D. C.: 2 coverlet samples of pine bloom overshot pattern and double bowknot overshot pattern (210283).
(See Miami,

<<<Page: 113>>>

Pakistan, Consulate General of, New York, N. Y.: 4 postage stamps (207904).
Paleontological Research Institution, Ithaca, N. Y.: 1 sample of diatomaceous earth from Costa Rica (209367).
Palm, Mrs. Bessie W., Washington, D. C.: Household linens, costumes, newspapers, and miscellaneous family belongings of 19th century (209042).
Palmer, Dr. Ernest J., Webb City, Mo.: 6 grasses from Missouri (209172).
Palmer, Mrs. Theodore Sherman, Washington, D. C.: 16-volume, worldwide stamp collection (208146, bequest).
Papua and New Guinea, Territory of, Department of Forests, Lae: 82 phanerogams, 2 ferns, and 65 plants from New Guinea (206783, 210727, exchange).
Paradiso, John L., Washington, D. C.: 17 small mammals from Maryland and the District of Columbia (210891).
Paradiso, John L., Washington, D. C., and Valentine, Jacob, Chincoteague, Va.: Skulls of three mammals from Virginia (210890).
Paris, University of, Mineralogical Laboratory, Paris, France: (Through Dr. C. Guillemin) 18 mineral specimens, including billietite, prixite, renardite, parsonite, mansfieldite, from France and Morocco (201484, exchange).
Park Museum, Providence, R. I.: 1 pair beaded and quilled moccasins from Northern Great Plains, period ante 1850 (208430, exchange).
Parke, Davis and Company, Detroit, Mich.: 2 replicas of Limousin’s morphine ampoules, 1886, and 1 bottle 0.25 mg. tablets of Serfin (207393, 210066) ; 30 original oil paintings on the History of Pharmacy in Pictures, complete with easels, lights, and miscellaneous fixtures (208397, loan).
Parker, F., New York, N. Y.: 1 Monaco picture post card bearing 1, 2 and 3 Frane “Royal Wedding” commemoratives (210778).
Parker, Miss Francis, La Jolla, Calif.: 50 planktonic foraminifera and 1 foraminiferal sample from the Recent of the Pacific (209682, exchange).
Parker, Dr. Robert R. (See Alaska Department of Fisheries.)
Parkhurst, Douglas L. (See Commerce, U. S. Department of, Coast and Geodetic Survey.)
Parnau, John L., Stockton, Calif.: 2 huntites from Nevada Magnesite claims, Ely, Nev. (209390).
Patterson, Dr. J. T. versity of.)
Payne, Russell B., Niles, Mich.: 137 bird skins (203442). Pearce, Franklin.
Remington.)
Pechuman, Dr. L. L., Lockport, N. Y.: 26 adult black flies from New York and Ontario (209218).
Peck, Mr. and Mrs. E. Milnor, Pleasantville, N. Y.: 1 “Official First Day Cover, International Committee” Benjamin Franklin Commemorative (209539).
Pendley, Dillard, Canton, Ga.: 1 yellow apatite from Holly Springs, Ga. (210568, exchange).
Penick, S. B. & Co., New York, N. Y.: 1 Rauwolfia serpentina Benth root (210068).
Penn, Dr. George H. University. )
Pennsylvania Game Commission, Harrisburg, Pa.: 1 black bear from Pennsylvania (210596); (through Dr. Logan J. Bennett) 3 black bear cubs from Pennsylvania (209926) ; (through Roger Latham) 2 black bear cubs from Pennsylvania (210887).
Permingeat, F. (See Service Geologique du Moroc.)
Perry, Dr. Stuart H. Santa Barbara, Calif.: 97 meteorites from various localities (207628).
Persson, Dr. Herman. historiska Riksmuseet.)
Peterson, Mendel L. Washington, D. C.: Approximately 600 marine and land shells, 7 fishes, 6 lots marine invertebrates and 1 echinoderm from the Bahama Islands (207381) ; 1 bill bearing 1 pence Bermuda “Perot” stamp and 1 Great Britain revenue stamp (209533, 210244); 1 “Operation Deepfreeze” cacheted envelope postmarked U. S. S. Hdisto, Dec. 28, 1955; 1 “Operation Deepfreeze” cover, cacheted, post-
(See Texas, Uni-
(See Kellogg, Dr.
(See Tulane
(See Natur

<<<Page: 114>>>

marked U. 8S. S. Glacier, Dec. 22, 1955 (210855).
Peyton, Bernard, New York, N. Y.: 10-volume collection Ecuadorian stamps (209197).
Pfeiffer, J. E., Swedesboro, N. J.: 1 full sheet of fractional currency issued Aug. 22, 1870 by Salem Glass Works, New Jersey (209881).
Phelan, M/Sgt. Thomas F., Spokane, Wash.: 4 Oligocene and 15 Tertiary plants from Ferry County, Wash. (206672, 207967); 2 Mississippian brachiopods from Whatcom County, Wash. (207748) ; 37 fossils from Miocene of Plaster City, Calif. (209676).
Phelps, Mrs. R. M., Annapolis, Md.: Ironstone punch bowl, late 19th century, reportedly used in White House during. administration of President Cleveland (207505, loan).
Phelps, Dr. W. H., Caracas, Venezuela; 2 birds from Venezuela (208604, exchange).
Philadelphia Zoological Garden, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Joseph M. Devlin) 1 cultivated fern (210015).
Philatelia Hungarica, Budapest, Hungary: 1 unused Hungarian stamp (208703).
Philippines, Republic of the, National Museum, Manila, P. I.: 229 phanerogams, 24 grasses, 7 ferns, from the Philippines (209507, exchange).
Phillips, Allan R., Tucson, Ariz.: 1 tree-fern from México and 88 plants of Okinawa (206820, 206919).
Phillips, J. Harry, Jr., Silver Spring, Md.: Portable radio with carrying handle (2093883).
Philpott, Herbert F., Medford, Mass. : Brass bugle, with red tassel, Civil War period (209380).
Pierce, Dr. E. Lowe. University of.)
Pilsbry, Dr. Henry A. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.)
Pires, Dr. J. Mure¢a. Agronémico do Norte.)
Pitelka, Dr. Frank A. (See California, University of, Berkeley.)
Pitman-Moore Co., Division of Allied Laboratories, Indianapolis, Ind.: 3 vials
(See Florida,
(See Instituto
poliomyelitis vaccine produced for national clinical field trials made in 1954 (207896).
Plumb, E. S., El Paso, Tex.: 1 orthoclase from Oro Grande District, New Mexico (206590) ; 1 scheelite ore specimen from Silver Tail Mine, Lake Valley Dist., New Mex. (209494).
Poland, Government of, Warsaw: (Through Prasa I Ksiazka) 16 mint stamps and 44 miscellaneous philatelic items from Poland (207905, 209710) ; 25 polish stamps and covers (210078, 210392, 210863).
Polk Memorial Association, Nashville, Tenn.: (Through Mrs. Douglas M. Wright) Lace fan owned by Mrs. James K. Polk, pair of spectacles with pewter frames worn by President Polk, dessert plate from the state china used in White House during the Polk administration (208603).
Pollack, Ensign Robert K., New York, N. Y.: 1 dress uniform for Midshipman of U. 8S. Navy, 1952-55 (207742).
Poos, Dr. Fred W., Washington, D. C.: 3,433 miscellaneous insects from United States (208717).
Posnick, David, Washington, D. C.: 52 miscellaneous ceramic pitchers, 2 teapots late 18th and early 19th centuries (208606, 210832).
Post, Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather, Washington, D. C.: 8 ethnological specimens from the Sioux, Cheyenne, Hopi and Pomo Indians of North America (204578).
Post Office Department, Washington, D. C.: 2,250 specimens of foreign stamps and other postage values, 6 bulletins issued by Universal Postal Union (207931, 210547) ; Buffalo hide mail sack, 1 U. S. Star Route Mail lock and key No. 8841 (208014) ; 66 mint United States stamps, 208673, 209527) ; 1 moulding plane (210145); (through B®. George Siedle) 3 Post Office badges (210857) ; (through General Services Administration) 669 assorted modern foreign coins (210876).
Pough, Dr. Frederick H., New York, N. Y¥.: 1 brannerite erystal from Fuenteovejuna, Cérdoba, Spain (208232, exchange).

<<<Page: 115>>>

Powers, Charles H., and Powers, Miss Helen S., Washington, D. C.: Chrome etching, “Abraham Lincoln’s Last Reception” by Hohenstein (208779).
Powers, Miss Helen S. (See Powers, Charles H.)
Pozaryska, Prof. Mgr. Krystyne, Warsaw, Poland: 21 slides of Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of Poland (207917, exchange).
Prasa I Ksiazka. ernment of.)
Pratt, Dr. Harry D., Atlanta, Ga.: 150 bees and wasps, 100 beetles, 50 damsel and dragon flies from Puerto Rico (207897).
Pratt, J. A. (See Willard, Carl B.)
Proctor, George R. (See Institute of Jamaica.)
Puerto Rico, University of, Mayaguez, P. R.: 4 grasses from Puerto Rico (208747) ; (through Dr. Virgilio Biaggi, Jr.) 5 fishes from Puerto Rico (210445).
Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.: 190 grasses from Montana (208063) ; (through R. E. Mumford) 3 bats from Indiana (209388).
Puri, Dr. Harbans S., Tallahassee, Fla.: 2 Ostracoda from the Tertiary of Florida, types (210407).
Pynn, Major T., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Korean man’s costume, plain white silk jacket and trousers; 2 stiff black hats, and 2 pairs of shoes (207619).
Quethera, J. J., National City, Calif. : 3 specimens of luminous earthworms (205047).
Radio Pioneers, New York, N. Y.: Bronze plaque commemorating Joseph Henry and original letter of Marconi (206608) .
Rageot, Roger. seum.)
Ramay, Charles L., Norman, Okla.: 1 brachiopod from the Dornich Hills formation, Oklahoma (209960, exchange).
Ramovs, Dr. Anton, Ljubljana, Yugoslavia: 1 foraminiferal sample from the Eocene, 1 coral and 2 specimens of Permian fusulinids, of Yugoslavia (210408, exchange).
Randall, Dr. John E., Papeete, Tahiti:
(See Poland, Gov-
(See Norfolk Mu-
28 fishes, 8 anemones, from Tahiti, collected by donor (210450). (See also Hawaii, University of.)
Rankin, Mrs. George A., Falls Church, Va.: 1 pair of woven garters collected by donor among Hopi of Oraibi, Ariz., 1909 (208608).
Rapp, Floyd A., Elizabeth City, N. C.: 1 each of tetrahedrite var. Malinowskite, pyrite, hessite, vesuvianite, suanite, teinite from Japan (210723).
Rapp, Dr. W. F., Jr. (See Nebraska, State of.)
Rathbun Memorial Fund, Richard, Smithsonian Institution: 41 shrimps, 2 seyllarids, 4 galatheids, 3 porcellanids,
> hermit crabs, 194 crabs (208434).
Rawson, Dr. George W., Silver Spring, Md.: 106 phanerogams, 1 grass, 3 ferns, 4 cryptogams from Alaska (207840).
Reed, Mrs. Sanderson (Lubel F.), Portland, Oreg.: Twined openwork carrying basket and coiled basketry tray collected about 1865 from Mariposa Indians by donor’s father (206777).
Reese, William D. (See Florida State University.)
Reimann, Dr. Irving G., Ann Arbor, Mich.: 46 Devonian crinoids and blastoids and large slab of Devonian crinoids from Michigan, New York and Ohio (206912).
Renfro, Mrs. J. H., Fort Worth, Tex.: 4 pieces of Oligocene wood from Texas (208468).
Reppa, Capt. Frank J., Jr., Hendersonville, N. C.: 1 cogged wheel lighter, 1 Meerschaum cigar and cigarette holder, 1 Mohammedan amulet consisSting of a miniature Koran encased in metal locket (209698).
Riggs, Dr. Carl D. University of.)
Rijksherbarium, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through Dr. J. Th. Koster) 144 miscellaneous algae (208873, exchange).
Ripley, Miss Ione, Washington, D. C.: 1 patchwork album quilt (210281).
Rob and Bessie Welder Wildlife Foundation, Sinton, Tex.: (Through Dr. Clarence Cottam) 7 land snails from Sinton, Tex. (207821).
Roberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore, Md. :
(See Oklahoma,

<<<Page: 116>>>

4 women’s dresses, 2 bodices, neckband and pair of underdrawers, ea. 1900, owned by Mrs. James B. Dickson, New York City (208931).
Roberts, W. L., Rapid City, S. Dak.: 16 minerals from South Dakota (208200, exchange).
Robinson, Dr. Edwin J., Jr., Gambier, Ohio: 2 new species of mollusks, types (207652).
Rock, Dr. J. F., Seattle, Wash.: 106 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 2 ferns collected in Iceland and Switzerland (208206).
Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 2 minerals from Pikes Peak, Colo. and 1 from Arizona (206726) ; 6 minerals from Brazil (206727) ; 2 meteorites, Achiles, from Lawlens County, Kans., and Cashion, Kingfisher County, Okla. (206729) ; meteorite specimen from Bununu, Nigeria (206730) ; 32 pyrrhotite, sphalerite, arsenopyrite, from Trepea, Yugoslavia (206931) ; 3 hagendorfites, Bavaria, 1 tellurite on tellurium, México (207141); 2 schallerites, Franklin, N. J. (207142) ; 1 pyrite pseudomorph after pyrrhotite specimen from Taxco, México (207148) ; 1 piece Manitoba meteorite (207144) ; 1 paradamite and 1 legrandite from Ouelja mine, Mapimi, Durango, México, 2 griffithites from Griffith Park, Log Angeles, Calif., 2 manandonites from Antankrokomby, Madagascar, 3 scawtites from Crestmore, Calif. (207444); 1 dussertite from Algeria, 1 kasolite from Tunisia, 1 kobeite from Japan, 1 luzonite from Philippine Islands (208228) ; 1 lillianite on quartz from Jillijarvi, Finland (208229) ; 1 barthite from Africa, 1 kaliborite from Spain, 1 prismatine from Germany (208324) ; 1 parsonite from France, 1 brannerite from Morocco (208826); 6 autunite from Daybreak Mine, Opportunity, Wash. (208827) ; 2 murdochite from Bisbee, Ariz. (208328) ; 2 specimens of beryl, varieties aquamarine and morganite, and 1 rose quartz from Minas Gerais, Brazil (208329, 208482) ; 1 hambergite from Madagascar, 1 each olivine, ruby, topaz, sapphire, peridot from Burma, 1 tourmaline, 1 columbite and 1 lepido-
lite from Mozambique (208473) ; 1 graftonite from Ross Mine, Custer County, S. Dak., 1 symplesite from Saubach, Schneckenstein, Saxony, Germany, 1 vanadinite from Castle Dome, Yuma County, Ariz., 1 veszelyite from Banat, Hungary (208474); 1 aerinite from Huesea and 1 anapaite from Barcelona, Spain, 1 uranocircite crystal on anthozonite, Bavaria (208475) ; 1 chalcopyrite on dolomite from the Ballard mine, Tri-State District, Okla. (208738) ; 1 liskeardite crust on ore from Cornwall, England, 1 muscovite from Tyrol, Austria, 1 lavendulan in ore from Czechoslovakia (208774); 1 meteorite from Clover Spring, Ariz. (209158) ; 8 goldichites with coquimbite from Dexter No. 7 mine, San Rafael Swell, Utah (209203); 4 brazilianite, 1 ludlamite, 1 hurlbutite from Smith mine, Newport, N. H. (209516) ; 1 becquerelite from Nunn Lake, Saskatchewan, Canada, 1 becquerelite from Emery County, Utah, 1 bustamite and 1 pyrosmalite from lLangban, Sweden (209517) ; 70 graphonite and other phosphate minerals from Black Hills, S. Dak. (209674) ; 355 specimens of argentite, pyrargyrite, jordanite, pyromorphite, herrengrundite and other minerals mostly from Classic Huropean localities (209675) ; 1 specimen of Lombard, Montana hexahedrite meteorite (2097387) ; 3 anapaites from Province of Barcelona, Spain, 12 fornacites from Mammoth Mine, Tiger, Ariz., and 1 specimen of barthite crystals from Mapimi, Durango, México (210108) ; 1 meteorite each from Taiban, New Mexico; Livingston, Mont.; Ovid, Briggsdale, and Rifle, Colo. (210767). Rohrer, Mrs. C. B., Upper Marlboro, Md.: 8 specimens of women’s clothing, about 1905, worn by Mrs. John Christopher Baney, Lebanon, Pa. (208222). Rohrer, Miss Josephine Arthur, Washington, D. C.: Matched set consisting of gold mounted camec glass brooch and pair of eardrops, pair of spherical eardrops of seed pearls, goldfilled finger ring with bezel of mosaic rod glass, all acquired in Rome, Italy, by mother of donor and long in posses

<<<Page: 117>>>

sion of donor’s family (208459) ; 1 pair Ashburton pattern pressed wine glasses (209941).
Rosenbloom, Leon, Baltimore, Md.: 4 pearls from oysters and 1 clam (209121).
Rosengurtt, Dr. Bernardo, Florida, Uruguay : 58 grasses, 7 phanerogams, 1 fern (209505).
Ross, Mrs. Helen M., Millburn, N. J.: 85 U. S. and U. N. first day covers and postcards (209713, 210861).
Rossignol, Gilbert R., Savannah, Ga.: 1 fern from Georgia (208788).
Roth, Mrs. F. G. R., Englewood, N. J.: (Through E. Stanley Wires) 2 ceramic sculptured tile panels by Frederick G. R. Roth, early 20th century (209396).
Rowley, Elmer B., Glens Falls, N. Y.: 8 serendibites from near Johnsburg, N. Y. (206921, exchange).
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey, England: 121 phanerogams, 1 grass, from Malaya (207682, 209811, exchange) ; 129 phanerogams, 4 grasses, 2 ferns from North Borneo (207883, 208938, exchange); 83 phanerogams, 363 grasses, 1 fern (209372, 209496, exchange) ; 43 phanerogams, 1 grass from South America (209619, exchange).
Royal Forest Department, Bangkok, Thailand: 50 phanerogams from Thailand (209932, exchange).
Roze, Dr. J. A. (See Universidad Central de Venezuela.)
Rozen, Dr. Jerome G., Jr., Berkeley, Calif.: 15 bees, including 3 paratypes, from California (208784).
Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N. J.: (Through Dr. J. B. Schmitt) 24 North American mosquitoes (210638).
Ruttencutter, Mildred Armistead Baker, Washington, D. C.: Miscellaneous items of 19th century china, silver, glass, jewelry, lace, music box, furniture, framed portraits, and miscellaneous invitations and calling cards given in memory of donor’s mother ‘209041).
Ryckman, Dr. Raymond E. (See School of ‘Tropical and Preventive Medicine. )
Ryukyu Islands, Government of the, Naha, Okinawa: (Through Shuhei
Higa) 44 Ryukyu Islands stamps issued 1948 and 1955 (210880).
Sabrosky, Mrs. Jennie, Sturgis, Mich.: 1 grain cradle used in Michigan before 1900 (210597).
Sadlick, Prof. Walter, Lincoln, Nebr. : 8 pelecypods from the MississippianPennsylvanian, Millard County, Utah (209954, exchange).
Said, Dr. Rushdi, Meadi, Egypt: 275 type slides of Hocene, Paleocene and Cretaceous Foraminifera from Sinai, Egypt; 13 Jurassic and 8 Cretaceous foraminiferal samples from Egypt (208065) ; 40 type slides of Foraminifera and Holothurian spicules from the Jurassic of Egypt (209209) ; 93 specimens of a foraminifer from the Hocene of Egypt (209683, exchange).
St. Mary’s University Speleological Seciety, San Antonio, Tex.: (Through Elmer C. Alsmeyer) 5 isopods (208205).
Sakimura, Dr. K., Honolulu, T. H.: 2 thrips from Hawaii (206986).
Sakurai, Dr. K., Tokyo, Japan: 6 minerals: kamiokalite, olivenite, osuinilite, metazeunerite, clinozoisite and 1 unidentified, from Japan (208255, exchange); 1 each kotoite, nagatelite, garnet, osumilite, yugawarulite and jadeite from Japan (210353, exchange).
Salomonsen, Dr. Finn. (See Zoologiske Museum.)
Salpeter, Father E. W., S. J. Laboratorio Astrofisico.)
Salter, William E., Washington, D. C.: 1 brown phosphate rock from
(See
Columbia, Tenn. (209389). (See also Bixler, P. 8S.) Sanborn, Colin Campbell. (See Chi-
cago Natural History Museum.)
Sanderson, Dr. M. W., Urbana, Ill.: 2 beetles from [Illinois (207728).
Santa Clara, University of, Santa Clara, Calif.: (Through Rev. Carl H. Hayn, S. J.) 1 steam-operated electrostatie generator (209281).
Santesson, Dr. Rolf. (See Uppsala, University of.)
Sargent, F. H. Arlington, Va.: 6 phanerogams collected in Europe (208056).
Sartenaer, Dr. Paul, Brussels, Bel

<<<Page: 118>>>

gium: 7 specimens of Camarotoechia, Devonian of Belgium (210402).
Saunders, J. B., Pointe-a-Pierre, Trinidad, B. W. I.: 24 type slides of Foraminifera, Recent of Trinidad (210087).
Schaeffer, Harry, Sinking Spring, Pa.: 1 Muhlenberg turtle from Pennsylvania collected by donor (210185).
Schall, Donald W. (See School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine.)
Schiller, Dr. Everett L. (See Health, Hducation and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service.)
Schmitt, J.B. (See New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, and Rutgers University. )
Schmitt, Dr. Waldo L., Washington, D. C.: 1 sea bottom sampler, snapper type (208321). (See also Smithsonian Institution. )
Schoep, Prof. A., Ghent, Belgium: 1 likasite from Likasi Copper Mine, Belgian Congo (208481).
Schomberg, Dr. Orville, Stillwater, Okla.;: 2 mites and 1 slide of fur mite from Oklahoma (206723, 207722); 2 slides of mites from North America (208623).
School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine, Loma Linda, Calif.: (Through Dr. Raymond H. Ryckman) 6 mammals from México and California (206854) ; (through Dr. Bruce W. Halstead and Donald W. Schall) 1 fish from HWniwetok Atoll (209927).
Schooner, Richard, East Hampton, Conn.: 1 pollucite and 1 amblygonite from Strickland Quarry, Portland, Conn. (209804).
Schreter, A., & Sons Co., Inc., Baltimore, Md.: (Through A. Harvey Schreter) 8 neckties (210155).
Schreter, A. Harvey. (See Schreter, A., & Sons Co., Inc.)
Schwab, Mrs. Robert S., Chevy Chase, Md.: 1 lithograph, “Three Figures” by Georges Rouault, 1 stencil print, “Compotier” by Pablo Picasso (210591).
Schwartz, Dr. Albert, Charleston, S. C.: 1 shrew, holotype, from North Carolina (208746). (See also Charleston Museum.)
Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne S., Scarsdale,
N. Y.: 272 mollusks, including 4 holotypes and 4 paratypes (206989).
Scientific and Industrial Research, Department of, Christchurch, New Zealand: 94 grasses from New Zealand (206999, exchange).
Scott, Frederic R., Richmond, Va.: 6 birds from Virginia (210216).
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Dr. Robert J. Menzies) 300 specimens of isopods (206421) ; (through Conrad Limbaugh) 2 hermit crabs (208109).
Sea Fisheries Research Station, Haifa, Israel: (Through Dr. Adam Ben-Tuvia) 4 fishes from eastern Mediterranean (2093438, exchange).
Sempere, Rev. Antonio Ma, La Paz, Bolivia: 50 Devonian fossils from Bolivia (188236).
Semple, Dr. A. T., Rome, Italy: 4 grasses from México (209793) ; 1 plant from New Guinea collected by donor (210730).
Service Geologique du Moroc, Rabat, Morocoo: (Through F. Permingeat) 40 minerals from Morocco (210830).
Sette, Dr. Oscar. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service. )
Sharp and Dohme, West Point, Pa.: 1 near point vision-tester (209699).
Shaw, Harry B. (See National Photographic Society.)
Shea, Mrs. John M., East Northport, N. Y.: 4 badges, 1 bronze medal, 1 bronze lapel button (210127).
Shelton, Frederick, Washington, D. C.: 2 basketry fire fans from environs of Quito, Ecuador (207838).
Sherrard, Mrs. Elizabeth. (See Arctic Institute of North America.)
Shewell, Guy E. (See Canada, Government of, Department of Agriculture.)
Shulman, Mr. and Mrs. Will, Newark, N. J.: 1 apophyllite from Cornwall, Pa., 1 stibnite from Fairbanks Mining District, Alaska (210478).
Siedle, E. George. Department.)
Sieling, Fred W. (See Maryland Board of Natural Resources.)
(See Post Office

<<<Page: 119>>>

Sievers, Walter W., Johnstown, Pa.:|N. J. (206802, exchange); 3 betafites
2 eacheted envelopes with special convention cancellation (209525). (See also Johnstown Stamp Club.) Simmonds, Miss Margaret A., Washington, D. C.: 1 picture of President Abraham Lincoln and his cabinet, engraved by A. H. Ritchie from painting by F. B. Carpenter (208224). Simmons, Frank E., Oglesby, Tex.: 18 land snails from Presidio County, Tex. (207268). Singer, Dr. Rolf. Miguel Lillo.) Sinkankas, Capt. John, Coronado, Calif.: 20 titanite specimens and associated minerals from Baja California
(See Fundacién
(206645) ; 1 amblygonite gem from Minas Gerais, Brazil (208116, exchange); 10 lithiophilite specimens
from Pala, Calif., and 3 clinozoisites from Baja California, México (209205) ; 1 beyerite from San Diego County, Calif. (210080); 1 cut barite gem, 60 carats; collection of tourmaline erystals from California (210399, exchange).
Sipley, Dr. Louis D. (See American Museum of Photography.)
Skotzke, Sigmund C., Milwaukee, Wis.: 14 U. S. Naval covers 1939-41 cacheted and cancelled (6 postmarks of U.S. 8S. Wasp, 126 used foreign stamps, principally Colombia, Guatemala, Honduras and Venezuela (207903).
Slater, Dr. James A., Storrs, Conn.:
holotype plant bug from Connecticut (206721).
Smeltzer, Bernard, Windsor, Pa.: 1 amphipod and 7 isopods from Carnegie Cave, Cumberland County, Pa. (209100).
Smith, David W. E., Washington, D. C.: Approximately 55 jellyfish from Virginia and Maryland (207781).
Smith, Dr. Hobart M. (See Illinois, University of.)
Smith, Dr. Lyman B., Washington, D. C.: 169 phanerogams from Santa Catarina and Parand, Brazil collected by Pe. R. Reitz and R. Klein (207720, 209930).
Smith, William R., Falls Church, Va.: 10 specimens of doverite, Dover County,
from Silver Crater Mine, 1 scapolite and 1 graphite from National Graphite Mine, Hastings County, Ontario; 1 tremolite and 1 actinolite, Canadian All Metals Mine, Halliburton County, all from Ontario, Canada (208230, exchange) ; 1 uranium ore from New Age Uranium Mine, Cardiff Township, Halliburton County, Ontario (208231); 1 paradamite from Mapimi, Durango, México (210211, exchange); 1 nasonite from Crestmore, Calif., 1 spangolite from Hansonberg District, Socorro County, N. Mex., 1 cuprian austinite, from Mina Ojuela, Mapimi, Durango, México (210506, exchange). Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.: U.S. bronze medal of Columbus dated 1893 (200004, deposit) ; 63 scientific instruments (208046, 208320, 208323, deposit) ; (through Dr. A. Wetmore) 59 bird skins, 1 nest, 2 eggs, 1 mammal from Colombia collected by M. A. Carriker, Jr. (207990, deposit) ; (through Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt) 1 thermometric sounding apparatus (209515, deposit). Found in Collections: 1 lithograph, ‘Portrait of H. Addison” by D. Fabronius, printed by A. Hoen & Co., Baltimore, Md. (208050, deposit) ; German slide rule, graphophone cylinder, woven steel cable, magnetic marching compass, surveyor’s compass, micrometer, French computing scale, iron nail (210147) ; measure, bevel and try square, marine compass, model of terrestrial magnetic plot, mieroscope, Walker odometer, Turkish steel yard, crude beam balance, Japanese thermometer, Jacob’s staff head, plane angleometer (210834). Made in Laboratories: 9 models power machinery (208322, 208726); relief model Street gas engine, 1794 (208727) ; photographs of 515 phanerogams, 16 grasses, 3 cryptogams (210885) ; model of Hero’s pneumatic engine, ca. 100 A. D. (210895) ; model of waterwheel used at Lowell, Mass., in 1840 (210896). (See also following Funds: Abbott, Bredin, Canfield, Casey, Chamberlain, Hickemeyer, Northern Rhodesia Bird fund, Rathbun Memorial, Roebling,

<<<Page: 120>>>

Walcott.) Bureau of American Ethnology: (Through Carl I. Miller) 149 fresh-water mollusks from Nebraska and Wyoming (208180) ; (through Dr. Henry B. Collins) 35 vials and 39 envelopes of insects from Southampton and Walrus Islands, 300 plants, mollusks, fossils, lemmings, and 38 mammals (209009). River Basin Survey: Archeological material consisting of pottery, stone, bone, glass, and metal objects collected by reconnaissance parties of the Missouri Basin Project in and about 16 reservoir areas in Nebraska, and human skeletal material from 4 sites (207595); archeological specimens from North Dakota (207596) ; 4 specimens of birch bark bearing pictographs incised and etched by the Passamaquoddy Indians of Maine, and the Abnaki of New Brunswick (208851); archeological specimens consisting of pottery, stone, bone, glass, and metal objects collected by parties of the Missouri Basin Project, in and about 2 sites in area of Fort Randall Reservoir, Charles Mix County, S. Dak., and human skeletal material from 39CH7 (209283); archeological material consisting of rim and body sherds from Clay County, Kans. (209694) ; archeological material consisting of pottery, stone, bone, and shell objects collected by reconnaissance parties of the Missouri Basin Project, from 2 mound sites in South Dakota, 1947-48, human skeletal material (209962); shell beads collected by reconnaissance parties of the Missouri Basin Project from site in Stanley County, S. Dak., human skeletal material (2099638); archeological and human skeletal material from site in Fort Randall Reservoir, South Dakota (210409). Astrophysical Observatory: 468 hand and machine tools formerly used in APO Shop (209382); 4 astrophysical instruments (209513) ; acoustie apparatus, quadrant electrometer, Bell jar, laboratory gas meter, Geissler tubes, static electricity demonstration apparatus, Leyden jars, 2 galvanometers (210894); 1 chronometer, Serial No. 521 (210897). Freer Gallery
of Art: 1 Charles Lang Freer bronze medal (209741). National Museum: Ccllected: More than 200 specimens of fossil fishes, reptiles and a bird from the Devonian of Ohio, the Pennsylvanian and Upper Cretaceous of Kansas, 450 invertebrate fossils from the Pennsylvanian of Ohio and Upper Cretaceous of Kansas, collected by Dr. David H. Dunkle and G. Donald Guadagni (207681) ; 1 undetermined reptile or amphibian skull and cervical vertebra from Cleveland County, Okla. 11 Sample bags of Permian bone bearing matrix from Dolesi Bros. quarry, Richard’s Spur, Okla., collected by Dr. David H. Dunkle and Franklin L. Pearce, 1955 (208865); 18 mammals from Kenya, collected by John P. Fowler (205653) ; 187 mammals from Virginia and West Virginia collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr. (210886) ; 191 mammals from coastal marshes of middle Atlantic states collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., and John L. Paradiso (210595) ; 15,000 Jurassic ostracods from Wyoming, Montana and South Dakota, collected by Dr. Ralph M. Imlay and Dr. Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., 1949 (208002); approximately 4,500 mollusks from Florida, Georgia and South Carolina collected by Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison (209376) ; 415 phanerogams, 145 grasses, 18 ferns, 488 cryptogams from Idaho collected by Conrad V. Morton (208058) ; 249 mammals, 415 mollusks, 2 birds, collected in Libya and Dr. Henry W. Setzer (209672); 890 bird skins, 12 bird skeletons, 2 bird alcoholies, 5 sets of eggs, 1 nest, 2 mammals, 1 plant, from Panama, collected by Dr. A. Wetmore (210472). Purchased: 1,000 plants of Brazil (207411); 1 Fourneyron water turbine model (207778) ; 589 phanerogams, 4 grasses, 2 ferns from New Caledonia (208334, 210393) ; replica of Anthoni Van Leewenhoeks’ original microscope (208449); replica and mold of an ancient Greek pill-making stone (208450) ; 1 water wheel (208725); 1 flag, blue field upon which is flaming torch in gold and the words “Smith

<<<Page: 121>>>

sonian Institution,” used in Smithsonian Marine Archeological Expedition in 1954 (208863); 1,310 photographic prints of H. W. Schott’s original drawings of Araceae (209364); 1 Pelton water turbine (209704) ; 7 casts of remains of ancient man (210051); 66 ferns from Malaya (210394) ; 1 cast of Monte Circeo skull (210601); 1 air pump, Robert Boyle’s first model, % size (210759); model of Trevethick steam engine (210898). (See also Morris, Mrs. George Maurice.) National Zoological Park: 64 reptiles and amphibians (210757); 17 mammals (210889) ; (through Dr. William M. Mann) 56 birds (210650).
Smitter, Dr. Yvor H., Johannesburg, South Africa: 16 Foraminifera from the Cretaceous of South Africa (208465, exchange); 150 Foraminifera from South Africa (209681).
Smock, Mr. and Mrs. Harold L., Mt. Rainier, Md.: 6 corals from the Pennsylvanian near Tulsa, Okla. (207997).
Smoot, Miss Julia Duvall, Washington, D. C.: American dresses, periods 1825, 1860, 1930, 1 pair binoculars of World War I (208778).
Smout, Dr. Alan, London, England: 4 specimens of a foraminifer species from Cretaceous of Iraq (207919, exchange) ; 300 Foraminifera from the Tertiary of Southwestern Asia (208611).
Snodgrass, Dr. Robert E., Washington, D. C.: 2 branchiopods (208388).
Snyder, Dr. Fred M. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle, Caracas, Venezuela : 860 phanerogams, 28 grasses from Venezuela, collected by Brother Ginés and associates (205020) ; 169 plants from Venezuela (205834) ; (through Dr. Cesar Aleman G.) 11 frogs from Misién Coromoto, Atures, Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela, collected by ©. Diaz U., August 1955 (208159); (through F. Martin S.) 33 specimens of crustacea from Los Roques and La Orchila (208187).
Solecki, Ralph, New York, N. Y.: 26 land mollusks from Iraq (205935) ; 209
archeological specimens from Long Island, N. ¥. (209544).
Solem, Alan. (See Michigan, University of.)
Sonotone Corp., Elmsford, N. Y.: 1 Sonotone hearing aid, Model 100 (208451).
Soper, Dr. F. L. Organization. )
Soukup, Dr. J.. Magdalena del Mar, Peri: 35 phanerogams, 13 ferns, 1 isopod from Perti (206992, 209037); 6 parasitic isopods (210570).
South African Institute of Medical Research, Johannesburg, South Africa: (Through Dr. F. Zumpt) 3 flies from Europe and South Africa (209034).
Southern Illinois University, Department of Botany, Carbondale, Ill.: 1 grass from Illinois (2071389).
Southern Railway System, Washington, D. C.: (Through Harry DeBuits) 1 Harlan and Hollingsworth steam engine (209703).
Sowell, Mrs. J. C., Washington, D. C.: 1 iron lamp (209936).
Spanton, H. G., Buenos Aires, Argentina: 1 cacheted envelope for “Pe Afra” stamp show held in Buenos Aires August 20-29, 1955; 1 regular uncacheted cover as above (207901) ; 6 Argentina stamps, 4 first day covers, and 1 regular air mail cover (208704, 209724, 210079, 210241, 210783).
Spaulding, Col. Thomas M., Washington, D. C.: 16 U. S. Army Officer’s uniforms and accessories (209542).
Speckels, M. L., China Lake, Calif.: 2 uranophanes, Muggins Mountains, Yuma County, Ariz., 2 quartz crystals, Clark County, Nev., 1 quartz crystal, Inyo County, Calif. (210644). (See also Humiston, Lee.)
Sperry, Prof. Omer E. (See Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas.)
Spiegler, Paul, College Park, Md.: 1 tiger beetle from Maryland (208618).
Springer, Stewart. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Squibb, E. R. & Sons, New York, N. ¥.: 1 bottle of 100 mg. tablets of raudixin, 1 bottle of 0.25 mg. tablets of Rau-sed (210069).
(See World Health

<<<Page: 122>>>

Stage, Harry H., Saigon, Viet Nam:
Steyermark, Dr. Julian A. (See Chi-
33 mosquitoes from Viet Nam (210849). | cago Natural History Museum.)
Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.: 2 fishes from France (193317, exchange); 12 grasses from Alaska (207786) ;_ (through Dr. Robert R. Harry) 4 parrot fishes from Kapingamarangi (201843, exchange).
Stannard, Dr. Lewis J., Urbana, IIl.: 8 thrips, paratypes (209216).
Starkey, J. Albert, Vineland, N. J.: 9 erayfishes collected from Little Robin branch of Maurice River (208028).
Starr, Floyd T., Philadelphia, Pa.: 14 foreign philatelic specimens (208934).
State, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: 12 mint Iran stamps (208711) ; 109 phanerogams, 50 grasses from Afghanistan, collected by Lewis E. Long (209315) ; box (waka) of carved wood, decoratively embellished, which was presented in 1925 to President Calvin Coolidge by the chiefs of the Arawa in a ceremony at Rotorua, New Zealand (209695). ;
Stauffer, Dr. Clinton R., Pasadena, Calif.: 12 brachiopods, Columbus limestone of northwestern Ohio (208613).
Stearns, J. L., Philadelphia, Pa.: 44 plants from the Philippine Islands (206781) ; 14 plants of North America (207683).
Steger, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel, Tampa, Fla.: 3 marine mollusks, including a paratype, from Florida (209439).
Steinitz, Dr. H. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.)
Steinman, Miss E. J., Lancaster, Pa.: An “At Home” invitation from the Secretary of the Navy and Mrs. Welles; an invitation to a children’s party; 1 blue and gray child’s dress worn at party held in the White House during Lincoln administration (210611).
Stephens, J. Halford, Richmond, Va.: 1 splitting hatchet, ca. 1890 (208211).
Sterling, Mrs. Lenore, St. Louis, Mo.: Sun dial inscribed 1746 (207384).
Sternberg, George F:, Hays, Kans.: 11 fossil fishes from Kansas (205351, exchange).
Stewart, Miss Jeanette, Washington, D. C.: 284 plants of Alaska (206916).
396826—56——8
Stifler, Mrs. J. M., Bradenton, Fla.: 1 fern from Florida (204884).
Stirling, Dr. Matthew W., Washington D. C.: 4 spear-throwers, “atlatls,” collected by donor in 1944 at the Tarasean village of Janitzio, Lake Patzcuaro Michoacan, México (209990).
Stocking, Miss Mary E., Washington, D. C.: Costumes, costume accessories, textiles and domestic equipment, 19th century (208876).
Stockwell, H. O., Hutchinson, Kans.: + meteoritic slices from Haven, Miller, Reager, Sublette and Willowdale, Kans. (208225).
Stolow, Julius, New York, N. Y.: Miscellaneous philatelic material (209198).
Strasburg, Dr. Donald. (See Atomic Hnergy Commission.)
Straub, Paul A. New York, N. Y.: 1 zold coin of Albania, ruler Zog I, 1 gold coin of Egypt, ruler Fuad I (208453).
Strelak, Joseph B., Waukeegan, IIl.: 57 United States and foreign first day wrappers (209708, 209945, 210237, 210790, 210862).
Strohecker, Dr. H. F., Coral Gables, Fla.: 9 katydids from North America (207514, exchange); 6 beetles from (ndo-Malaya and Madagascar (210842).
Sudzuki, Minoru, Tokyo, Japan: 4 specimens of fairy shrimps (206431).
Suits, Dr. C. G. (See General Electrie Company.)
Sundstrom, Gus. (See Interior, U. S. Department of, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Swanson, Dr. Leonard E. ida, University of.)
Sweet Briar College, Sweet Briar, Va.: 1 cultivated plant (210731).
Swoboda, Edward R. Los Angeles, Calif.: 1 ruby in matrix from South Africa, 1 kornerupine and 1 sinhalite from Ceylon (208912, exchange).
Symmes, Harrison, M., Washington, D. C.: approximately 600 marine mollusks from Kuwait, Persian Gulf; echinoderms, 1 barnacle, and 1 well eore sample (207564).
(See Flor

<<<Page: 123>>>

Symmonds, Mrs. George Crook Thomas, Washington, D. C.: 18 specimens of basketry from American Indian, Méxican, Egyptian, and Filipino peoples, collected by donor (209521).
Takayanagi, Dr. Yokichi, Sendai, Japan: 42 Foraminifera types from the Miocene, Pliocene and Pleistocene of Japan (208462, exchange).
Talbot, Dr. Mary, St. Charles, Mo.: 60 ants from Missouri (208622).
Taylor, Dwight, Washington, D. C.: Approximately 180 land snails, topotypes, from Kansas (209692).
Taylor, Frank, Washington, D. C.: 2 German postcards (209720, 210613).
Taylor, John M., Villa Nova, Pa.: (Through Col. Charles S. Hamilton) 3-volume collection of Salvador stamps, practically complete to 1929 (210878).
Taynton, Mark, Falls Church, Va.: 8 specimens of brocades, velvets and embroideries (210770).
Telex, Inc., St. Paul, Minn.: 1 complete model “Telex 960” eyeglass-type hearing aid, 1 model “Telex 960” unit with back-plate removed, 1 maroon leather carrying case (210594).
Tennessee, University of, Knoxville, Tenn.: 1 plant (208442).
Terlitzky, Frank, (address unknown): 1 portable coin balance, 1 writing pen (210144).
Teskey, Mrs. Margaret C., Marinette, Wis.: 2 land snails from Tennessee (207464); 18 fresh-water mollusks from New York (207538).
Tester, Dr. Albert L. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Teves, Juan, Berkeley, Calif.: 5 microsamples from the Miocene of Maryland (208004).
Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.: (Through Dr. Clark Hubbs) 115 fishes from Costa Rica and México (207599) ; (through Dr. J. T. Patterson) 3,577 pinned specimens of 107 species of flies from Texas (210845).
Texas Research Foundation, Renner, Tex. : 88 grasses from Florida (208789).
Thalmann, Dr. Hans E., Stanford, Calif.: 200 specimens of a foraminifer from México (209211).
Thiel, A. A., Piedmont, Calif. : 1 model spring-spoke automobile wheel (208436).
Thompson, Mrs. Dorothy F., Washington, D. C.: 5-sectioned, 4-keyed boxwood flute made about 1800, bearing impressed mark “Klemm & Bro. Phila.” (208928).
Thompson, Miss Eleanor. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey.)
Thomssen, Richard W., El Cerrito, Calif.: 1 metacinnabar from Mount Diablo, Calif. (208235, exchange).
Thurman, Mrs. Deed E., Jr., Bethesda, Md.: 9 reptiles, 1 amphibian from Chiengmai, Thailand, collected by donor and Dr. Thurman in 1952 (209751).
Thurman, Miss Phyllis, Chevy Chase, Md.: 83 marine mollusks from Florida (209934).
Tier, Mrs. Lillie K., Washington, D. C.: 1 patchwork album quilt, 19th century (209501).
Tilden, Dr. J. W., San Jose, Calif.: 4 butterflies from California (207509).
Till, Mrs. Alice E., Arlington, Va.: 1 ladder-back chair, 1 footwarmer (209940).
Timberlake, P. H., Riverside, Calif. : 18 paratypes of wasps from California (210631).
Tinkham, Dr. Ernest R., Indio, Calif. : (Through Dr. H. K. Gloyd) 4 snakes, including type and paratype, from Okinawa collected by donor in 1945 (208689).
Tipton, Capt. Vernon J., St. Louis, Mo.: 708 insects, 13 mammals, from Korea (209925). (See also Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Titterington, Dr. P. F., St. Louis, Mo. : 34 specimens of Indian skeletal remains from Calhoun and Jersey counties, Illinois (209386).
Tokyo, University of, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Prof. Takeo Watanabe) 15 manganese and other ores from Japan and Korea (207502, exchange) ; (through Dr. Hisashi Kuno) 12 specimens of tridymite, cristobalite, and other druse minerals in lavas from Japan (207695, exchange); 1 jadeite

<<<Page: 124>>>

from MHashidate, Japan (210250).
Tompkins, Mrs. John T., Pocatello, Idaho; Gray silk Quaker bonnet worn by Margaretta Bacon at her marriage to Josiah Bacon, Green Street Meeting House, Philadelphia, 1803 (209202).
Tortonese, Prof. Enrico, Genova, Italy: 9 specimens of Mediterranean echinoderms (206684, exchange). (See also Museo Civico di Storia Naturale.)
Townes, Dr. George F., Greenville, S. C.: 6 green lacewings from South Carolina (209215).
Trapido, Dr. Harold, Panama, R. P.: 1 turtle from Coiba Island, Panama, collected by Dr. A. Wetmore, 1 earthworm from Cerro La Victoria, Panama (210182).
Traub, Lt. Col. Robert, Kuala Lampur, Malaya: 154 fleas from Nearctic, Neotropical, Palearctic, Ethiopian and Australian regions (208624); 2 mites from Malaya, holotypes (208632). (See also Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Treasury, U. S. Department of the, Washington, D. C.: Bureau of Customs: 1 starting pistol “Minima” (210741) ; 12 bottles of Ceylon Cinnamon oil, 12 bottles of “Hucalypthus Liniment Oil,” 12 jars of Tiger Balm, 3 cans of crude ginger (210760); (through General Services Administration) 1 Russian machine pistol, 1 Russian Nagant revolver, 1 German Mauser automatic pistol, 1 German Ortgies automatic pistol, 1 Japanese automatic pistol, 1 Starter pistol (209541) ; 64 specimens of firearms (210853). Internal Revenue Service: 3,883 U. S. Internal Revenue stamps, tobacco, chewing tobacco and cigars (208008); Walther automatic pistol and holster (209540); 10 guns (210071) ; 1 automatic pistol, Duo, 1 double barrel shotgun (210735); 1 Smith & Wesson revolver (210739); 3 automatic pistols, 1 Colt revolver (210740) ; (through: General Services Administration) 1 Czechoslovakian pistol, Model 27, 7.65 MM (207736) ; 2 12gauge shotguns (209379). Bureau of the Mint: 7 Nepal coins (206856) ; 82 U. S. coins and 2 medals (209798) ;
Niigate Prefecture,
(through W. H. Brett) 2 1-yen and 2 50-yen Japanese coins (210019).
Treat, Dr, Asher E., New York, N. Y.: 3 paratypes of mites from Long Island, N. Y¥. (207993)..
Tressler, Dr. Willis L. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
Trinidad Regional Virus Laboratory, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, B. W. I.: 40 plants with supplementary bottled material from Trinidad (208615).
Tulane University, New Orleans, La. : 3 specimens of crayfish types, including holotype, allotype, and morphotype (209861, exchange) ; (through Dr. Rezneat M. Darnell) 23 jellyfish, 46 crustaceans, 43 mollusks (206658) ; (through Dr. George H. Penn) 5 type specimens of crayfish from Louisiana (206740, exchange) ; (through Dr. Leo Koch) 64 Californian mosses (207418, exchange).
Tulsa, University of, Tulsa, Okla.: (Through Prof. Albert P. Blair) 17 fresh-water mollusks from Oklahoma (208846).
Turner, Frederick B., Berkeley, Calif.: 9 amphipods (210014).
Tutwiler, O., Tampa, Fla.: (Through Herbert R. Axelrod) 2 fishes (208930).
Tvedt, Reidar. (See United Nations Postal Administration. )
Tyler, Richard O., Chicago, Ill.: 30 woodcuts by Richard O. Tyler (207625, loan).
Tyler, Richard W., Modesto, Calif. : 41 plants collected in Alaska (206693).
Tyree, Adm. D. M. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
Uhl, Maj. Gen. Frederick E., Sumner, Md.: 18 Moro and Manobo weapons consisting of straight and serpentine krisses, barongs, talibong, kampilans, bolo, spear, and wooden club, collected by donor 1910-12 (208317) ; 8 items of Bagobo costume consisting of man’s jacket, trousers, belt, and hunting bag; 2 multiple strand bead necklaces, 1 woman’s costume consisting of wraparound skirt and beaded scarf (209520).
Unfug, Carl G., Mollusk, Va.: 1 Flobert sporting rifle (210075).

<<<Page: 125>>>

Union National Bank. (See Cather, Mary Byrdie.)
United Nations Postal Administration, New York, N. Y.: 2 United Nations first day covers (208707, 209523) ; (through Reidar Tvedt) 2 United Nations first day covers (209949, 210240).
Universidad Auténoma de San Luis Potosi, San Luis Potosi, México: 107 phanerogams, 18 grasses from México (209933, exchange).
Universidad Central de Venezuela, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. J. A. Roze) 2 frogs from Venezuela (209359).
Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata, Argentina: 88 phanerogams, 12 grasses from Argentina (208724,
exchange). Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil: (Through Dr. John
Lane) 36 flies from Brazil (210715).
Universitetes Mineralogisk-G e o 1 o0gisk Museum, Oslo, Norway: 20 rocks from the Ekersund, Songndal area, South Norway (199014, exchange).
Universitetets Zoologiske Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark: (Through W. K. Ockelmann) 18 marine mollusks from East Greenland (208182).
University College of the West Indies, Jamaica, B. W. I.: 51 phanerogams, 5 grasses from Colombia (209671).
Uppsala, University of, Uppsala, Sweden: 87 phanerogams, 19 grasses, 10 ferns from Scandinavia (210642, exchange) ; (through Dr. Rolf Santesson ) 2 lichens from Brazil and the Ivory Coast (209873, exchange).
Urban, Joseph, Tucson, Ariz.: 1 cobaltian mansfieldite from Alamos, Sonora, México (210082).
Uyeno, D., Washington, D. C.: 4 Japanese reprints, 1871 (209538).
Valentine, Jacob. (See Paradiso, John L.) van der Schalie, Dr. Henry. (See
Michigan, University of.)
van Emden, Dr. F. (See Great Britain, Government of, Commonwealth Institute of Entomology.)
van Lith, Dr. J. P., Rotterdam, Hol-
land: 7 wasps and 2 bees from Holland (206928, exchange).
Van Noten, Jean, Englewood, N. J.: 22 mint Belgian stamps (209529); 24 Belgian semi-postal stamps designed by donor (209944).
Van Schaack, Dr. George B. Missouri Botanical Garden.)
van Voorthuysen, Dr. J. H., Haarlem, Netherlands: 5 specimens of a foraminifer from the Cretaceous of Holland (207915, exchange).
Vaurie, Mrs. Patricia, and Cazier, Dr. Mont A., New York, N. Y.: 14 scarabs from México, all paratypes of 13 new species (207893).
Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blackburg, Va.: (Through Dr. R. V. Dietrich, and John Murray) 1 brushite and 1 taranakite from Pig Hole Cave, Giles County, Va. (208942).
Vokes, Dr. Harold, Baltimore, Md.: 141 foraminiferal samples from Panay, P. I., 1 sample and 5 slides from the Paleocene of Maryland (2079238).
Voous, Dr. K. H. (See Zodlogisch Museum.)
Voss, Gilbert L., Coral Gables, Fla.: 18 shrimps from Chile (209247).
Wade, Miss Mary, Adelaide, Australia: 5 specimens of a foraminifer species (207910, exchange).
Wagner, Dr. Edward, Hamburg, Germany: 16 plant bugs from Germany (208714, exchange).
Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Instiiution: 210 Foraminifera and Ostracoda from the Tertiary of Czechoslovakia (207924) ; 10,000 invertebrate fossils, Mississippian-Permian from Oklahoma, Kansas and Nebraska, collected by G Arthur Cooper and Robert J. Main (207996) ; 12 foraminiferal samples from the Pennsylvanian, Dickerson shale, near Lipan, Tex.; 2,000 Lower Cretaceous pelecypods and gastropods from 2 miles west of Bumet, Tex., collected by Dr. David Nicol and Robert J. Main (208000); 2,000 Foraminifera from the Upper Cretaceous of Spain (208464) ; 686 Foraminifera from the Tertiary Planktonie of Czechoslovakia (208792) ; 1 fossil bowfin from the Middle Eocene of Wyoming (208824) ; 3 fos-
(See

<<<Page: 126>>>

sil fishes (209673) ; 32 microsamples of Foraminifera from the Cretaceous and Tertiary of New Jersey (210406) ; 25 samples of boehmite, var., France, collected by Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., 1954 (210619).
Wales, University College of, Welsh Plant Breeding Station, near Aberystwyth, Wales: (Through Dr. EH. T. Jones) 853 specimens of plants and their hybrids (207631).
Walker, Dr. Egbert H., Washington, D. C.: 5 phanerogams of eastern United States (209370).
Walker, Thomas, Columbus, Ohio: 5 North American tree crickets (209220).
Wallace, Maurice H., Muskogee, Okla.: 200 Paleozoic and Mesozoic fossils from Africa (209959).
Wallace, Robert T., Amman, Jordan: 4 fishes from the Dead Sea (210021).
Walton, Capt. Bruce C. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army.)
Ward, Prof. Helen L., Knoxville, Tenn.: 2 specimens of new species of helminth from Egypt, types (206993).
Ward, Philip H., Jr., Philadelphia, Pa.: 3 U. S. stamps, 1 Greece and 1 Labuan (209048, loan); 1,226 specimens of foreign stamps (209044).
Warner, Kendall. (See Maine, University of.)
Warren, Albert J., Moscow, Idaho: 382 lice from Idaho (210233).
Wass, Marvin L. (See Florida State University. )
Watanabe, Prof. Takeo. University.)
Wayne University, Detroit, Mich.: (Through Dr. Arvid Jacobson) Calculating machine developed by Dr. Vannevar Bush (208694).
Weaver, B. Woodruff. Col. Theodore, Jr.)
Webb, Jack, Jr.,; Washington, D. C.: 2 sets of progressive color proofs, ‘Indian Beads” and “The American Rifleman” (206716).
Webb, J. H., Rochester, N. Y.: 32 miscellaneous mollusks (206685) , exchange).
Webber, Miss Elizabeth Kemble, Bos-
(See Tokyo
(See Barnes,
of wedding shawl, mitts, white lace bertha, 2 Chantilly barbs (210470).
Webster, Dr. Dwight A., Ithaca, N. Y.: 98 amphipods, 2 isopods from Glens Falls, N. Y¥. (209007).
Weddige, Emil, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 27 color lithographs by Mr. Weddige for special exhibition November, 1955— January, 1956 (208454, loan).
Weinthal, S. M., Oakmont, Pa.: 14,272 foreign stamps, covers and labels (208878).
Werner, Prof. F. G., Tucson, Ariz.: 10 lice from Arizona (210626).
West, Mrs. A. L., Franklin, Tenn.: 1 pair hand-knit stockings, 1864 (209500).
West Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.: 2 grasses from West Virginia (209570); 34 phanerogams, 3 grasses, 2 ferns, from West Virginia and adjacent states (210728, exchange).
Weston Electrical Instrument Corp., Newark, N. J.: (Through John Miller) 8 electrical instruments (209512).
‘Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Washington, D. C.: 15 foreign notes and 18 eoins (207407); 1 humerus of fossil bird collected by Joe F. Arndt, San Diego, Calif. (207846) ; 1 Dutch Indies cacheted envelope (208709); 1 bird skeleton (210762). (See also Smithsonian Institution.)
Weyrauch, Dr. Wolfgang, Lima, Pertti: 51 echinoderms from Pert (209503).
Wheeler, Dr. George C., Grand Forks, N. Dak.: Approximately 196 specimens of ant larvae from all over the world (208617, 210844) ; 6 phorid parasites from North Dakota (210229).
Wheeler, Henry E., Helena, Ala.: Approximately 4,150 land and freshwater mollusks, including paratypes, mostly from Arkansas (207978). (See also Monk, Richard.)
Wheeler, Dr. M. R., Austin, Tex.: 2 flies, paratypes, from Arizona (208628).
Wheeler, Mrs. William H., Jr. (See Dingwell, Paul D.)
White, Mrs. Thomas J., St. Petersburg, Fla.: 1 Victorian patchwork quilt
ton, Mass.: 5 pieces of lace consisting | (209502).

<<<Page: 127>>>

Wiener, Kurt, Washington, D. C.: 2 halftone reproductions of ‘“‘The Washerwomen” and detail from “Lot and his Daughters” (206717).
Wiggins, Dr. Ira L. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Navy.)
Wilcox, LeRoy, Speonk, N. Y.: 2 barnacles (206771).
Wilkinson, Miss Madeleine, Washington, D. C.: 1 pewter charger, 10 specimens of ceramics and glass, 8 miscellaneous accounts and inventories of the objects (204579) ; 8 linen towels (207459) ; costumes and costume accessories of the late 19th and early 20th centuries (209705).
Willard, Carl B., Frederick, Md.: (Through J. A. Pratt) 1 electric household fan ea. 1890 (208212).
Williams, Dr. Francis S., La Mesa, Calif. : 8 bees from California (2053829).
Williams, John G. (See Coryndon Museum.)
Williams, Mrs. Margaret Grosch, Crozet, Va.: 13 prints by Oscar Grosch (209193).
Williams, Dr. Roger W., New York, N. Y.: 2 biting midges, including 1 type slide (210236) ; 2 biting midges, holotypes, from Michigan (210629).
Williams, Scott J., Scottsdale, Ariz. : 1 fornacite from Mammoth mine, Tiger, Ariz. (209065, exchange).
Wilson, Mrs. James Southall, Charlottesville, Va.: White silk coat worn by President John Tyler about 1850 (207788).
Wilson, Miss Margaret Edelin, Washington, D. C.: 1 baby’s christening robe, 1 petticoat, and 1 net cap worn by Alexander Edelin Hamilton, 1868
(210877). Wilson, William M., Philadelphia, Pa.: 38 first day covers Benjamin
Franklin commemorative (209526).
Wingate, David B. Ithaca, N. Y.: Reptiles and amphibians collected in Bermuda by donor, containing 2 species of lizards not reported from the island heretofore (208649).
Winn, Mrs. Hazel Jones, Houston, Tex.: 5 specimens of needlepoint, bob-
bin and applique laces made by donor about 1897 in Arkansas (208859).
Winokur, Seymour. (See Hermanoff, Irvin.)
Winokur, Dr. William. manoff, Irvin.)
Winslow, Miss Harriet, Washington, D. C.: 2 bills-of-fare from Gadsby’s Hotel, Washington, D. C., June 9 and 10, 1850 (207402).
Winter, Dr. Kenneth B., Cheyenne, Wyo.: 11 land snails from Wyoming (209440).
Wires, E. Stanley, Wellesley Hills, Mass.: 504 miscellaneous ceramic tiles (205737, 209395). (See also Roth, Mrs. F. G. R.)
Wirth, Dr. Willis W., Washington, D. C.: 1,706 midges from Hawaii (209219, 210224).
Wisconsin, University of, Madison, Wis.: 13 phanerogams, 1 grass, 3 ceryptogams (207735, exchange); 84 phanerogams, 10 grasses, 11 ferns from Colombia collected by Dr. Norman C. Fassett (208421).
Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Bielogy, Philadelphia, Pa.: 85 skulls (39 with skeletons) from various racial groups, 5 mammal skulls (3 with skeletons) (209131).
Witka, Mrs. Emil L., Rock Springs, Wyo.: 1 silicified palmwood from north of Farson, Wyo. (206878).
Witt, William L., Arlington, Va.: 478 reptiles and amphibians, mostly from Virginia, collected by donor and his friends (210756).
Wolfe, Mrs. Thomas, Arlington, Va.: specimens of costumes and accessories of the late 19th and early 20th centuries (210647).
Wolff, Mrs. Laura V., Glenside, Pa.: (Through Mrs. Paul J. Bieble) 1 Citizen’s Pass, Civil War, Union Army, issued by order of Brigadier General H. P. Van Cleve Feb. 17, 1864 (209199).
Woman’s Auxiliary of Christ Church, Saint Michaels, Md.: (Through Mrs. J. Holbrook Chapman) 1 Demorest Fairy sewing machine with its original box (207839).
Wong, Mrs. Marianne S., Hong Kong: 1 hand-woven broeaded fabric made by
(See Her

<<<Page: 128>>>

Miao people, Kiangsi province, China (207819).
Wood, Dr. Alan, Aberystwyth, Wales: 8 foraminiferal samples, Paleocene of England (209688, exchange).
Wood, Miss Constance H., Rochester, N. Y.: Garnet red velvet dress worn by Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland, sister of President Grover Cleveland and First Lady of the White House, 1885-86 (208905) .
Wood, Dr. Stephen L., Ottawa, Ontario: 66 bark beetles, mostly from Central America, México, and Brazil (209375, exchange).
Woodruff, Pauline Barnes, Washington, D. C.: (Through Col. Theodore Barnes, Jr.) Baby bonnet worn by Benjamin W. Woodruff, pewter service consisting of 2 pots, cream pitcher and sugar bowl marked “EH. B. Mannings, Patent, June 5, 1862, Warranted” (207405) .
Wooton, Miss Sue, Arlington, Va.: 1 marine mollusk from Florida (208314).
Worcester Natural History Society, Worcester, Mass.: 1 mounted passenger pigeon (206798, exchange).
World Health Organization, Pan American Sanitary Bureau, Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. F. L. Soper and Dr. BE. C. Chamberlayne) 39 small mammals from Peri (208842).
Wrather, Dr. William. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey.)
Wright, Mrs. Donald, Washington, D. C.: 1 British-made Midas 9.5 mm combination motion picture camera (206718) .
Wright, Mrs. Douglas M. Memorial Association. )
Wright, Mrs. Fred E., Washington, D. C.: Approximately 300 rocks and 50 minerals (210721).
Wright, Robert. (See Commerce, U. S. Department of, Weather Bureau.)
Wullschleger, Arthur E., New York, N. Y.: 1 framed silk Jacquard picture “The Signing of the Declaration of Independence,” § trial specimens of weaving (209086).
Wyeth Laboratories, Philadelphia, Pa.: 2 vials poliomyelitis vaccine pro-
(See Polk
duced for national clinical field trials, 1954 (207395).
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn.: (Through Dr. Joseph L. Melnick) 3 macaques from Malaya (207275).
Yates, Mrs. L. W., Mclean, Va.: 1 purple finch (210473).
Yedlin, Neal, New Haven, Conn.: 1 bertrandite from Toll Gate Quarry, Middletown, Conn. (208480); 1 herderite from Topsham, Maine, 1 monazite from McKenney Mine, North Carolina (210475).
Yochelson, Dr. E. L. (See Interior,
U. S. Department of, Geological Survey.) Yoder, Hatten, Jr. (See Allard, Gilles. )
Young Ja, Miss Chey, Montevideo, Minn.: 191 ceramics from Korea (208898) .
Young, Miss Viola, Danville, Pa.: (Through 8. G. Cannard) Brown stoneware jug, 1903 (209696).
Yugoslavia, Government of, Direction Generale des Postes, Belgrade: 14 Yugoslavian philatelic specimens, stamps and covers (208015, 208705) ; (through V. Ognjenovic) 6 mint Yugoslavian stamps (209722) ; (through Lj. Niki¢) 12 Yugoslav stamps and 1 envelope (210742).
Yuncker, Dr. T. G. University. )
Zak, Prof. Dr. Lubor, Prague, Czechoslovakia: 2 cyrilovites and 1 albandite from Czechoslovakia, 1 vesignieite, 1 aurostibite from Bohemia (207527, exchange).
Zeiss, Arnold, Miinchen, Germany: 2 foraminiferal samples from Jurassic of Southwest Germany (207921).
Zodlogisch Museum, Amsterdam, Netherlands: (Through Dr. K. H. Voous) 4 skeletons of Bewick swans (210266, exchange).
Zoologiske Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark: (Through Dr. Finn Salomonsen) 5 Faeroe Island snipe, 2 Philippine birds (208220, exchange).
Zumpt, Dr. F. (See South African Institute of Medical Research.)
(See DePauw

<<<Page: 129>>>

oe) aa its ec
Ray ot f tiie Zt win me" uy eo ator ehigenr 1B; Alta ; ahse os ch ah i ‘ ae ‘ yet ? . A : ? AO athe sites BAG’ : ‘ Sule. % ae + rn | ; at _ feel yiig 90% ; “ ? =F “1 ‘ i? Fenieuriy sec Pe fae + Pe in eG DSL LANSKY ce haat: | 8 di 5 BATTER Ba TE oe ww 7 ‘ ah a = we are ia Pynehn: z¥ i ‘ ‘ D 7 re 7" AES OM: Oe ; Sawer! a pS © are ya iv DYE Soa) ee cried aid mens ae ee nt ie : eo Ts a ie ; Sh HIRO: Wat)” BoE” bh ano’ Mia taunt hy j 5 52 , x Rg es oy leks | eatie &! Ty PARE AMS} +42 Hh vase tay ites cl io Vie (eee ot Py H Hotere Bas oh t i" : ae ‘ ek ea ee 7 I mia Meant e La Ss | NEVEEEL wees We es heat H Eat Feat oy » rey Ek ck mane |B! rf ai yt iG HII AEE CD TEN A AESOP by 8 Tse batehts + ; Keane : STO at ere (ie at Ne be hae) CTD D TIRE ore are phar tis LRP s} ‘a z0F Ty ET eRe Re wea cece ze ¢ Let pate’ Mays fi Af Petavedute | Rigel Pah Te 266 Py He TEL iy Ms ‘ wy 5 . J b ef oee eS ass nif LAO D, es eeny SAS | i ~ a . td * Thy els Ue Be 5 tte e 1 uw Ht) us Be ae + A eaURe sh feet ve ae be le Bam es eee f ay é . eras ties ’ 4 Boa Sd bite F Ps vom ine aay th { (Wet “uf if eared Fre Tepe 7 , psa went 5 4 ry 5 i es . i ins & : : a thie q si ey ‘geen | tia | Pei seel bce: ‘ . ." i 4 t Fy y a r 7% 7 Cae ertg : ‘yey 4 , tos fit ;+ r FI e, ‘3 f a : > : ‘ nae 4 . Pt f; of its 1 { tt cey tPY e ae F * , Fike vie ay sft 7 x « . ” ae | Lb in =" j j ' ' : } j (} fos: i j ' (i yi 7 F ; ‘ autie locas ame . 7 ' , 4), r ‘9 ‘ pad by ' of ’ — é ‘ { ti ¢ a ’ if $ vat ™ 3 i . i : ‘ tt pitt j ror rig Le TT ey i . Orit { i Lag AQ , Dw

<<<Page: 130>>>



<<<Page: 131>>>

wii ii |

<<<Page: 132>>>

‘ ih “— at
‘ ; ! . ‘ 4 ; / x ‘ie » w. ~ % v = = mon FE | * os . i t \ ; oe Sete = : = arg cs 51. “poral vee 2 By! , « 5 ss — reve ane ‘ ‘ z : wo 3 a =< ef ss : 4 a ed PB meh pee —, seal are ibe ; > cs ; ; ~ nga , = ¥ = owe ~ = mae = — ro, r i “ : ; 7 i ‘

<<<Page: 133>>>

ina SEEEED | i Ena ae Be

<<<Page: 134>>>

ow ee on)

<<<Page: 135>>>



<<<Page: 136>>>

