<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>



<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>

The United States
National Museum
Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1954

<<<Page: 5>>>

UnitTep States NatrionaL Museum, Unper DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D. C., October 15, 1954. Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1954. Very respectfully, REMINGTON KELLOGG, Director, U. S. National Museum. Dr. LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. wm

<<<Page: 6>>>

Annual Report of
the Director
United States National Museum

<<<Page: 7>>>



<<<Page: 8>>>

June 30, 1954
Scientific Staff
Director: Remington Kellogg
J. E. Anglim, exhibits specialist; T. G. Baker, R. W. S. Browne, R. O. Hower, W. T. Marinetti, M. M. Pearson, exhibits workers.
Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator
A. J. Andrews, exhibits preparator
ARCHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, curator | PHysicaL ANTHROPOLOGY.: T. Dale Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator Stewart, curator G. S. Metealf, museum aide M. T. Newman, associate curator
HTHNOLoGy: H. W. Krieger, curator J. C. Ewers, associate curator C. M. Watkins, associate curator R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator
Department of Zoology: Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator
W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator; C. R. Aschemeier, W. M. Perrygo, E. G. Laybourne, C. S. Hast, J. D. Biggs, exhibits preparators; W. L. Goodloe, exhibits worker; Mrs. Aime M. Awl, scientific illustrator
MAMMALS: Insects: O. L. Cartwright, acting D. H. Johnson, acting curator curator H. W. Setzer, associate curator R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate W.D. Field, associate curator eurator Grace li. Glance, associate curator Birps : Herbert Friedmann, curator Sophy Parfin, junior entomologist H. G. Deignan, associate curator MARINE INVERTEBRATES: FE. A. Chace, G. M. Bond, museum aide Jr., curator REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator Doris M. Cochran, associate curator Mrs. L. W. Peterson, museum aide Wisues: Leonard P. Schultz, curator Moniusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator H. A. Lachner, associate curator Joseph P. H. Morrison, associate cuRobert H. Kanazawa, museum aide rator
R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator W. J. Byas, museum aide
Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator
PHANEROGAMS: A. C. Smith, curator GRASSES: KE. C. Leonard, associate curator Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator Hi. H. Walker, associate curator CryprogaMs: C. V. Morton, acting cuLyman B. Smith, associate curator rator Velva EK. Rudd, assistant curator Paul S. Conger, associate curator
Ferns: C. Y. Morton, curator

<<<Page: 9>>>

Department of Geology: W. F. Foshag, head curator
J. H. Benn, museum geologist ; Jessie G. Beach, museum aide
MINERALOGY AND PETROLOGY: W. I. | VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. L. Gazin,
Foshag, acting curator EK. P. Henderson, associate curator G. S. Switzer, associate curator KF. E. Holden, physical science aide
curator D. H. Dunkle, associate curator EF. L. Pearce, exhibits preparator
INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND PALEOBOTANY: Gustav A. Cooper, curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator David Nicol, associate curator R. J. Main, Jr., museum aide
Department of Engineering and Industries: Frank A. Taylor, head curator
ENGINEERING: Frank A. Taylor, acting curator; in charge of Sections of Civil and Mechanical Engineering, Marine Transportation, and Physieal Sciences and Measurements
R. P. Multhauf, associate curator
K. M. Perry, associate curator, Section of Electricity
S. H. Oliver, associate curator, Section of Land Transportation
George B. Griffenhagen, associate curator Alvin E. Goins, museum aide
CRAFTS AND INDUSTRIES: W. N. Watkins, curator; in charge of Section of Wood Technology
Edward C. Kendall, associate curator, Sections of Manufactures and Agricultural Industries
Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator, Section of Textiles
HK. A. Avery, museum aide
William E. Bridges, museum aide
GRAPHIc ARTs: J. Kainen, curator
A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator ; Section of Photography
J. Harry Phillips, Jr., museum aide
Department of History: Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator
MILITrAary AND NAVAL HISTORY: Mendel L. Peterson, associate curator J. Russell Sirlouis, assistant curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., junior historian NUMISMATICS: S. M. Mosuer, associate curator
CiviL History: Margaret W. Brown, associate curator Benjamin Lawless, exhibits worker Ff. EH. Klapthor, museum aide PHILATELY : Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator

<<<Page: 10>>>

Honorary Scientific Staff
Smithsonian collaborators, associates, custodians of collections, and honorary curators
Anthropology
Neil M. Judd, Anthropology
Paul Bartsch, Mollusks
Arthur C. Bent, Birds
A. G. Boéving, Zoology
L. L. Buchanan, Coleoptera
M. A. Carriker, Insects
Austin H. Clark, Zoology
R. 8. Clark, Zoology
Robert A. Cushman, Hymenoptera Max M. Ellis, Marine Invertebrates D. C. Graham, Biology
Charles T. Greene, Diptera
A. Brazier Howell, Mammals W.L. Jellison, Insects
Agnes Chase, Grasses E. P. Killip, Phanerogams
R.S. Bassler, Paleontology Roland W. Brown, Paleobotany
Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon-
tology
Frank L. Hess, Mineralogy and Pe-
trology
W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology
Zoology
W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera
W.B. Marshall, Zoology
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., Mammals
J. Percy Moore, Marine Invertebrates
Theodore S. Palmer, Zoology
Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology
Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, Marine Invertebrates
C. R. Shoemaker, Zoology
R. HE. Snodgrass, Insects
Alexander Wetmore, Birds
Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod Crustacea
Botany
F. A. McClure, Grasses John A. Stevenson, Fungi
Geology
J. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Paleontology
J.P. Marble, Mineralogy
S. H. Perry, Mineralogy
J. B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate Paleontology
W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy
Engineering and Industries
F. L. Lewton, Crafts and Industries

<<<Page: 11>>>



<<<Page: 12>>>

Contents
EN eR O DMC LION isin us i Se ie, SSA CR ERTNCN Det nO Ley arses ree arco Seared ice Pray tev SE pees 1 UGH LGR Mes sree rot ee AEN SEM etme too ce een Coy ob etou ne evan ee teh cat Gal wee Me 5 ING CGE SSTONSH: en Bethea nee Tani eae urn EMC II. Sith Sa RP ap ame avai MOL 1 Sah nea ot Rate 12 CaRE OF COLLECTIONS ... Ade sane hs Mien Sern ie hen eA Mee Ra oa 26 INVESTIGATION AND nee ane Bt ie uius thie Bie ai aL reNarm braecnisreciat ae | UN Rin 4 lec 32 Je\TOH HL OURO) OG] COYEA Ry Meter ING ety oes, «Sallis RMP UMD ROL TRMIAUA IRIE: hry HP 7m) My tie 32 OO OPV Aree LE CM Lee eS SIRE. Lone RAKE SY TEE OTCD Coane. rs 36 SOLAN GM ate anche an EA corer cance arnt ay ar ae Renee ten mmoarttene fu ates 41 Geology... . SAR AT NL Sen GOR Rau IR ALM a Make DEB 44 Engineering and innanes: AS AY Se Gey eek Re. ate fs es gre WA ST 4 at 48 ETS TOT ypeissieevuas) wath sh Veblen eae Saas hiss do pron. Gates, Wo st eevee meals: Relves ao 51 PUBLICATIONS ... Rion eS hae ra RGnesEie thorkod eta Rick ne 53 DONORS TO THE None Clomucyennone DPR ERG a beogem, AARNet 60

<<<Page: 13>>>

teas
Yr ah si at

<<<Page: 14>>>

Introduction
During the closing days of the second session of the eighty-third Congress, the Senate of the United States passed by unanimous consent a bill (S. 3622) “to provide for the preparation of plans and specifications for a museum building for the Smithsonian Institution.” A similar measure in the House of Representatives did not come to a vote. In this building, to be known as the Museum of History and Technology, it is proposed to house the collections now displayed in the Arts and Industries building of the U. S. National Museum.
Introduction of these bills in Congress has served to focus attention on a need for building space that has grown increasingly and particularly acute in recent years. Long a concern of the Museum staff, this lack of space today places a heavy restriction on normal Museum activities and reduces the efficiency of the curators, who must often work under most onerous conditions. Two principal factors have brought about this situation—normal growth of the collections in the half-century since work started on the newest Museum building, and increased interest in and use of these invaluable collections by both scientists and the general public.
Growing Museum reflects national progress
Normal growth adds to the collections an average of about 450,000 items a year, nearly double the 250,000 a year added in the 1890's. This stepped-up rate of annual growth is to be expected. Ours is a growing country. Our economy is expanding continuously. Our technology has exploded into fields undreamed of when the Museum was founded almost a century ago. We are blessed with an active scientific community unceasingly pushing outward the frontiers of human knowledge. As a result, to our National Museum, by law designated official custodian of the national collections of “rocks, minerals, soils, fossils, and objects of natural history, archeology, and ethnology,” has come a flood of materials recording our progress in natural science, history, and technology. Such materials come as a matter of course from all other government agencies. Public-spirited individuals and organizations, recognizing the value of the Museum as a national repository, likewise present or bequeath their private collections of animals, plants, or other objects of scientific or historic

<<<Page: 15>>>

y U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1954
importance. These gifts often represent a lifetime of painstaking research aimed at making the collection more useful to others.
Limitations of space have forced the Museum to accept only a small portion of the valuable, often priceless, material offered the Nation— only a few of the most significant landmarks in this onward march of science and technology. Even so, in the past half-century these public collections have grown so greatly in size and scientific importance that they have made the U. S. National Museum one of the world’s principal museums, and they have become of such value to science that specialists from all parts of the world visit Washington to consult them. An idea of their magnitude and scope may be gained from the tabulation on page 138, which shows the distribution of the more than 85 million specimens that comprise them.
Responsibilities of the Museum
The Museum’s comprehensive collections of scientific and cultural materials are fundamental to a knowledge of the natural history of our globe—its physical resources, its inhabitants, and their works. This knowledge is an essential part of the education we demand for our young people. It is a weapon wielded daily in attacking and solving the problems of science, agriculture, and industry. Upon the increase and diffusion of this knowledge depend in no small measure our civilization and the well-being of the world’s rapidly increasing population.
It is the primary function of a museum to preserve and make available to the public the materials upon which this knowledge is based and from which additional knowledge may be released through research. It is the function of the National Museum to organize its collections of materials representing the world of man and nature into a useful reference library of objects and information for the benefit of all.
As the collections have grown in size and usefulness, scientists and the public alike have not failed to seize the opportunity to consult them in increasing numbers. This has both increased the duties of the staff and the need for space in which to carry on these added services.
Thus, on an average weekday the National Museum and its staff are called upon to provide working space and other services to more than a hundred scientists and specialists whose official duties entitle them to fulltime use of the collections. On that same day another hundred or more can be expected to make temporary use of the collections or to consult the curators about them. All these, of course, are in addition to the thousands who daily study the exhibits in the public halls, (‘The total for last year was 3,262,150.)

<<<Page: 16>>>

Increasing collections and decreasing space
In modern museum practice only a relatively small number of items are selected for display at any one time in the public halls, which may occupy half or more of the total floor area of the museum. The remainder of the materials are arranged in study collections so that scientists, technologists, historians, can use them for reference, comparison, or research.
Before these study collections can be used effectively it is necessary to have associated with them such essential facilities as offices and research laboratories for the staff and visiting specialists, libraries, workrooms for processing specimens, as well as shops for preparing exhibits, halls for special displays, lecture and study rooms for visiting groups (the National Museum is visited each year by school groups totaling many hundreds of thousands of students), and such other service facilities commonly found in any large public building.
For all these purposes of exhibition and study the National Museum has less space than most of the comparable museums of the United States and Kurope. For some of the functions mentioned the Museum has no space or no facilities whatsoever, even though its growth has spread it through three buildings of the Smithsonian group.
The most modern of these structures, the Natural History building, was designed in 1902 when the electric light had just come into general use—and when it was still the custom for a museum to place the greater part of its collections shelf-on-shelf in glass cases set in rows on the exhibition floor. The modest storage and working facilities thought adequate by the designers were overloaded less than a dozen years after the building was occupied in 1912. Through succeeding years normal growth of the collections has caused them to preempt exhibit halls, corridors, stair wells, office and laboratory rooms already too few and too small for the staff, and even the upper colonnades of the great rotunda, the attic, and the coalbin. At the same time several large halls and a number of offices have been occupied by the National Collection of Fine Arts—another bureau of the Smithsonian Institution—and the Smithsonian library.
The “old” National Museum, the second of the three buildings, is now known as the Arts and Industries building. It was designed in 1876-79 and completed in 1881. Its construction was prompted by the need to provide an inexpensive exhibit hall for materials presented to the United States at the close of the Philadelphia Centennial. Its courts, with their narrow balconies, are open to the roof. It has no basement, and the limited number of rooms scattered through its towers and reached by narrow stairs must serve as offices, workrooms, and storage facilities. One gallery and most of the overhead

<<<Page: 17>>>

space are occupied by the collections and offices of the National Air Museum, formerly a department of the National Museum but since 1945 a separate bureau of the Smithsonian.
The third of these structures is the Smithsonian building itself, in which the National Museum began its life in the 1850’s as the Smithsonian Museum. A familiar landmark designed in 1846-49 and completed in 1855, it was once, after the Capitol itself, the most prominent building in the downtown area of Washington. It now houses the National Herbarium and some Museum exhibits, making it the second oldest museum building in continuous use as a museum in this country.
— Progress being made
An examination of these conditions as they affect the responsibilities of the Museum to science and to the public inescapable point to what must be done.
The Congress has made possible a long forward step toward solving the problem by providing funds for renovating and modernizing exhibits that it has not been possible to change for 40 years and more. From this the public will soon begin to reap the benetit. Replacement of the outworn and inefficient Arts and Industries building will go far toward providing appropriate housing for a large part of these new exhibits. Modernization and expansion of the working parts of the Natural History building will complete the program by which the National Museum is in process of rehabilitating its physical plant.
Funds Allotted
From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year 1954, the sum of $1,092,724 was allotted to the United States National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geological specimens, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, industry, graphic arts and history (this amount includes sums expended for the new program of exhibits modernization).

<<<Page: 18>>>

Exhibits
Anthropology
The modernization of Hall 23, “Highlights of Latin American Archeology,” was completed. This undertaking, begun in 1951, was directed and planned by Associate Curator Clifford Evans, with layout and design by Exhibits Specialist John E. Anglim.
This new exhibit hall, a significant improvement over the previous arrangement, presents man’s cultural development from his earliest known beginnings in Latin America to the high civilizations of the Inca, Aztec, and Maya. The hall was officially opened with a special ceremony in recognition of Pan-American Day, April 14, 1954, attended by ambassadors and official delegates of the 21 American Republics of the Organization of American States. It was dedicated to the better understanding of nations through the dissemination of knowledge and an appreciation of the cultural heritage of various countries. ‘This represents the first permanent exhibit hall of the Natural History Building to be completely revised since the building was opened to the public in March 1910.
The 30 new exhibit cases are arranged in alcoves corresponding to the following culture areas: Marginal, Tropical Forest, CircumCaribbean, Meso-American, and Andean. They show the advance of various cultures from the simple hunting, fishing, and gathering level of existence to the highly advanced societies practicing welldeveloped agriculture with complex social and political organizations and skilled technologies. The number of objects on display is limited. In each case is clearly developed an idea or theme which fits into the complete story of the history of past cultures of Latin America. Labels and explanatory details are kept at a minimum and are nontechnical. A master color scheme throughout each alcove and explained on maps unifies the related exhibits. Floor models of sculpture and architectural features are spotlighted.
The thematic approach may be illustrated by the titles of the various exhibits in the alcove on Andean Culture Area, which include the following: The Development of Culture on the North Coast of Peru; Farming—the Foundation of Andean Culture; Inca Architecture; Peruvian Textiles; Products of Andean Craftsmen; Pottery Art of

<<<Page: 19>>>

Ancient Peru; and the Northern and Southern Extremes of Andean Culture. ;
The modernization of ethnology exhibits in Hall 11 advanced from the planning stage to actual construction of a series of ethnographical displays that range geographically from Tierra del Fuego to the American Southwest and interpret the native Indian cultures from these areas. Under the supervision of Associate Curator John C. Ewers construction began in May 1954, after the hall had been completely cleared of all the old exhibit materials and cases. Simultaneously previously planned new exhibit units were prepared and installed on panels by artists and special preparators under the supervision of John E. Anglim. Ten new wall-case exhibits interpreting the cultures of the Indians of California, the Navaho, and the Apache have been completed; others are in progress.
A diorama, “The Lucayan Indians Discover Columbus,” to be used in Hall 11, was completed in the anthropological laboratory under the direction of A. J. Andrews. Another diorama portraying a ceremony in the subterranean Antelope Kiva of the Hopi Indians is in preparation by the museum laboratory of the National Park Service. The ten previously exhibited life-size plaster lay figure groups will be reconditioned and used in this new display. Plans call for the opening of this hall to the public during the first half of 1955.
Plans have been approved for the construction of walls and exhibit units for a new exhibition in Hall 26. The general theme, as developed by Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins and John EK. Anglim, will be life in colonial America. An important acquisition for use in this hall was a paneled parlor from a tidewater Virginia house dating about 1760.
The exhibits relating to physical anthropology were temporarily retired from public exhibition because of the modernization program. Some of the more important of these displays were added to those on the office and laboratory floor.
In recognition of the continued public interest at home and abroad in the American Indian, various art galleries and museums requested and were provided with loan material for their special exhibitions on the way of life of the American Indian and his arts and crafts.
Loans were made of paintings of Indian subjects by early nineteenth century American artists such as George Catlin, John Mix Stanley, Charles Bird King, H. Stieffel, and Gustavus Sohon, as well as the more recent painters, J. H. Sharp and Carl Moon. One significant loan of 27 paintings by George Catlin, made to the Department of State through the National Collection of Fine Arts, was exhibited

<<<Page: 20>>>

EXHIBITS i
in several museums and art galleries in Germany, France, and England. Other organizations in this country which borrowed various paintings were Ohio University, Joslyn Art Museum, Louisiana State Museum, and the Detroit Institute of Arts.
The current practice of interpreting the material productions of nonliterate peoples in terms of the fine arts has brought numerous requests for the loan of selected ethnographical material for purpose of special exhibition. Thus, the Municipality of Buenos Aires, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, and the American University requested and received the loan of a considerable number of face masks, headdresses, and helmets.
Zoology
Considerable progress was made with the framing of the cases for the mammal groups to be installed along the east side of the North American mammal hall. Here are to be located four habitat groups: Alaskan wolf, Virginia deer, pronghorn antelope, and puma. The mounted animals for the first-named group are in preparation. For the other three the taxidermy is complete with accessories in part, as these sets are at present temporarily on display in another hall. All that is needed for their permanent installation are some additional groundwork, accessories, and painted backgrounds. Accessories for the wolf group are meanwhile being actively worked on.
The first step toward modernization of the bird hall was taken with the removal of the former exhibition series so that the framework for the new cases could be put up. Materials and mounted specimens are at hand for these in part. So far completed are the birds and most of the accessories for the passenger pigeon group, the Carolina parakeet, hornbill, bowerbird, hoatzin, and palm chat, and the ostrich and honey-guide bird groups.
An “Insect of the Month” exhibit was inaugurated in May with a case illustrating the life history of the clothes moth and its work of destruction.
Geology
Modernization of the geological exhibit halls has progressed to the preparation of plans and layouts of the proposed new displays of minerals, and of the fossil fish and amphibians. Steps to begin these installations, however, have been postponed pending a decision to construct a new floor over the dinosaur hall, a project which, if approved, would interfere with the new installations until the reconstruction is completed. Tentative plans have been made and layouts prepared
317706—b4—_—_2

<<<Page: 21>>>

for a hall of Mesozoic reptiles and of Tertiary mammals; plans are being considered for a hall or exhibit of Pleistocene mammals.
The laboratory preparation of the material of the giant sloth, Megatherium, from Panama has been completed this year and will prove a spectacular addition to the exhibition series. It is planned to use this in the hall to be devoted to Pleistocene mammals.
No changes have been made in the exhibits of mineralogy other than the replacement of specimens by finer material as it is received.
Engineering and Industries
Plans are complete cr in process for exhibits renovation in terms of entire halls for the following: Hall of health, hall of textiles, power hall, atomic energy, and graphic arts. These will be undertaken as the Museum’s exhibits renovation program reaches the several divisions. In the meantime much is being accomplished in all sections in the creation of new exhibits and improvement of the old.
During the year, the first phase of the renovation of exhibits in the photography gallery was completed. Twenty new exhibits tracing the development of plate and film processes, the still camera, and the motion picture camera and projector were completed, covering such subjects as “Dry-Plate Photography,” “Milestones of Photography,” “Stereo Photography,” “The Magic Lantern,” and “Two Kinds of Sound.” In graphic arts, the history and technical principles of offset lithography are explained in six vertical panel displays and three flatcase exhibits which include scale models of offset printing presses. The exhibit contains the earliest known example of offset lithography and, by contrast, an explanation of modern six-color printing.
GrapHic ARTS
1958 American Wood EngravPrintsfrom the permanent June 30—August 31 ings print collection Frank Wallace 34 woodcuts September 1—October 4 Leona Pierce 21 woodcuts October 5—November 1 Eugene Higgins 30 etchings November 2—November 29 Rowland Lyon 36 block prints November 30—January 3 1954 Milton Goldstein 27 encaustic color etchings January 4—January 31 Irene Aronson 35 etchings February 1—-February 28 Mordechai Avniel 26 woodcuts March 1—March 28 Margaret Lowengrund 29 prints March 29—April 25 Nancy Twedt 14 prints April 26—May 23
John Muench 25 color lithographs May, 24—J une 20

<<<Page: 22>>>

PHOTOGRAPHY 1953 Permanent Print Collec50 pictorial photographs July tion J oseph Costa 70 pictorial photographs August-September Alfred Watson 45 pictorial photographs October-November National Photographie 50 pictorial photographs December Society and 70 color transparencies 1954 J. Elwood Armstrong 57 pictorial photographs January—February Hans Marx 56 pictorial photographs March—April
Seventh Annual Exhibi50 pictorial photographs May tion of Marine Photography
American Society of Pho42 pictorial photographs June tographic Art
In the division of medicine and public health, 20 exhibits were either newly created or completely renovated. The titles are: “Devils, Drugs and Doctors,” an exhibit of medical superstition and quackery ; “The Body Becomes Transparent,” tracing the discovery and evolution of the use of the x-ray; “Let There Be No Pain,” describing the development of the use of surgical anesthesia; “Pioneers of American Medicine,” an exhibit of colored prints and portraits of American pioneer physicians; “The Art of Phlebotomy,” devoted to the history of blood-letting ; “Tools of the Surgeon,” an exhibit of surgical instruments from Pompeii to the 19th century; “Spectacles,” tracing the evolution of eye-wear; “Medicine Chests of the Physician, Traveler, iixplorer, and Soldier”; “William C. Gorgas, Physician and Sanitarian Who Made Possible the Building of the Panama Canal”; “Early Dentistry,” tracing the development of dentistry and dental instruments; “The Apothecary Jar and the Medicine Bottle,” devoted to the evolution of drug containers. All of these were prepared in the division. Exhibits prepared by others include: “The Development of the Stethoscope” and “The Evolution of the Microscope,” from the Medical Museum of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology; “The Story of the Hypodermic Syringe,” from Becton, Dickinson and Company ; “Do You Know Your Body 2” from the American Medical Association; “Medical Caricatures,” from the Army Medical Library; “The History of Medicine on Postage Stamps,” from Dr. Maurice J. Strauss; “The History of Pharmacy in Pictures,” from Parke, Davis & Company; “Vitamin B-12,” from Merck & Company; “The Manufacture of Medicines,” from the Upjohn Company.
In the division of crafts and industries, the spotlighted display of the Scholfield wool-carding machine and a small brightly illustrated exhibit on wild silk are two of more than twelve cases revised or newly

<<<Page: 23>>>

created during the year. The John Deere plow of 1838 was re-exhibited on a large panel with painted illustrations and text describing the importance and development of the steel plow. One unit picturing the increase in agricultural efficiency in terms of plow performance was added to the agricultural series. A colorful display was made of plant and insect specimens preserved in plastic by the Fessenden technique. A 27-year-old exhibit showing the soft-wood steam distillation process was brought up to date by the donor of the original display, the Hercules Powder Co.
In the division of engineering a new exhibit of the air brake was received from the Westinghouse Air Brake Company and a marked improvement was made in the appearance of the old automobiles by fitting them with new reproductions of old tires, presented by Harvey S. Firestone, Jr.
History
The modernization of the exhibition of the collection of dresses of the First Ladies of the White House, given high priority in the Museum-wide modernization program, has started. Construction is moving forward on the series of eight period rooms from the White House in which the dresses will be displayed. Considerable work has been done preparing the museum specimens for exhibition in the hall. It has been necessary to refinish all the mannequins which display the dresses. The dresses have been improved with minor changes in installation, sewing repairs, cleaning, and pressing. Much of the furniture and accessories is undergoing cleaning and repairing.
The dresses of the First Ladies were temporarily installed in the wall case in the North Hall and the period costumes collection and the collection of statuettes, “Living Hall of Washington, 1944,” were moved to the West Hall. Plans have been prepared for renovation of the exhibits in the West Hall, utilizing the cases and fixtures already installed. This plan, devised by Associate Curator Margaret Brown and Benjamin Lawless, exhibits worker, will be put into effect following the painting of the hall and the installation of new lighting fixtures, now in progress.
During the year the case containing George Washington’s uniform and other personal effects was redesigned and lighted with fluorescent strips. ‘The United States Marine Corps is installing an important collection of materials relating to the history of their organization, among which is a series of arms noteworthy for its completeness and rarity, some of the pieces being unique. Half of the old hand-lettered labels in the Hall of Naval History were replaced by more legible printed labels that are expected to be insect proof.
The interiors of the uniform cases of the West Gallery were altered

<<<Page: 24>>>

to receive the exhibition series which is being reorganized. The uniforms will be shown on free standing supports.
Much effort was devoted to the preparation of an exhibition, “History Under the Sea,” devoted to the underwater exploration program of the division of naval history. This exhibition will receive a special showing in the foyer of the Natural History Building July 20 to August 20, 1954, and later will form a permanent part of the exhibits of the Department of History.
In the Coin Hall was installed a special exhibit case devoted to the stamping press, engraving tools, and medals of Edward Stabler, an early American die-sinker. These were a gift of Mrs. Maurice J. Stabler, Ashton, Md.
During the year 25 additional display cases in the coin hall were equipped with shatter proof glass and burglar alarms. Thus, with the additional protection of 24 hours a day armed guard patrol, the exhibits are afforded maximum protection.
In the philatelic exhibits four small cases were added to show selected postal history models and objects.
End frames attached to the large stamp cabinets have been changed frequently during the year. The Ralph Cole airmail crash covers, on loan, were shown for several weeks, as was the Charles F. Bridgman x-ray photography material. On other occasions material from the division of philately was utilized, such as the Birth of Christ and the Crucifixion stories on stamps, presented by Philip H. Platzker; the Arthur F. Black collection of stamp printing types, received during the year as a gift; the Ernst Lowenstein Bolivia and Brazil airmail stamp donations, and outstanding large United States blocks from the national collection.
The division of philately loaned portions of its stamp and postal history material for display in conjunction with the American Stamp Dealers’ Association exhibitions in New York and Chicago, and cooperated with the New York City Tercentenary Committee for its display in Federal Hall there.

<<<Page: 25>>>

Accessions
During the Fiscal Year 1954
During the year 632,243 specimens (less than half the number received last year) were added to the national collections and distributed among the six departments as follows: Anthropology, 22,816 ; zoology, 307,361; botany, 137,609; geology, 54,399; engineering and industries, 1,947; and history, 108,111. As indicated in the report for 1953, the unusual increase for that year in the number of specimens received was attributed to the receipt of a large number of small fossils. This year’s total represents more normally the number of specimens incorporated into the collections in a fiscal year. Most of the accessions were received as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government departments and agencies, and the most important of these are summarized below. A full list of the donors is to be found on page 60.
Anthropology
An interesting accession of the past year was a charm necklace worn by the Piegan Indian Stabs-by-Mistake while engaged in horse stealing from neighboring tribes. Attached to this necklace was a pouch of pungent prairie clover, which was regarded by the Piegans as a potent talisman for obtaining horses. <A collection of ethnographical materials transferred from the Bureau of American Ethnology consisted of textiles, weaving paraphernalia, basketry, necklaces, and musical instruments used by the sub-Andean Indians of southern Colombia. <A rare ear pendant of green jade worn by a Maori chief was presented by Lt. Comdr. P. J. Cox, Jr.. USN. Through Dr. David Johnson was received a number of bamboo mammal traps made by the Dusan natives of North Borneo.
Over 800 objects from archeological sites in Korea, heretofore not represented in our collections, were presented by Maj. Howard A. MacCord, USA. From an archeological site in Phillips County, Kans., were received 8,751 specimens representing a Woodland horizon ossuary. Charred wooden samples from this site yielded a radiocarbon date of 1,343 +240 years before the present. This is the earliest date yet assigned to a pottery-bearing site in the Central Plains. An important series of diagnostic specimens dated around 2500 B. C., from the Huaca Prieta site along the north coast of Peri,

<<<Page: 26>>>

Department of Anthropology .......... 787, 973 ATCHEOLOBY: Miss) dtieth celia oy hah etken nas 543, 008 Bs Ganolo py: hee ata IAT aah eM cs 187, 453 Ceramics: estik: fb ee eA 9, 896 Musicalinstruments. ... . 2, 446 Period art and textiles... . 7, 930 Physical Anthropology ...... 37, 240 Department of Botany 27). see 2, 625, 384 Phanerogamsy.) 20 1600 A A 1, 714, 463 Grassesiene ae Bishi Ps MOT AS. ss 350, 101 INerns Fate Fi.) Pipes | agit pa hdd Geren is 207, 089 Cryptogams .... Hey 353, 731 Department of Engineering sind mcinainies Sein ope sae 168, 696 Crafts and Industries. ...... 62, 301 FN GINCELINEG eh cst amy coh tie ees 33, 121 GraphicyArtsy.cesud abi prom rall: 50, 208 Medicine and Public Beaten sees 23, 066 iDepartmention Geology.) nit yak ts Ped Pe Medes 5, 261, 898 Mineralogy and Petrology .... 263, 882 Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany, 28 ee Rh 4, 959, 533 Vertebrate Baleonealaey Sah: Lietan 38, 483 Department Of MIstoryy.! yh. 4s.) A devl ov yeiven Seis ayelbe 774, 980 Civilulhistory oie We she Civ vas 37, 478 Military: Elistorys.0 <i), co uneiene 29, 233 INS VAlGEUIStOrYy sue vue etc. 4, 523 INIUIMISTAEICS At Pe) lethal ofl Stee wre 63, 216 Philately ¥23 dh ele ohees rasy, of way ethos tes 640, 530 Department).oh ZOOLOLY,,.) hay de bed lye, chkeuns 25, 683, 876 Miamumals: 2) re circle Sah Wal le 269, 216 SITES ey eas akive FSR ON ess liiair bbs \ lel esi 480, 909 Reptiles slate curein tie ea eee 142, 291 ISHESM ATEN E aanthQGe to ROUEN AE a EK. 1, 548, 980 IMsectsreesiaiee vie sb ee parr 12, 219, 890 Marine Invertebrates ..... . 1,301,930 INTOHUSESH Fei Poe hive Liipeud ists 9, 489, 487 Velimin ths iiss a yak) sh bes oath tomeh asi te 46, 396 Hichinoderm syne stein nee 184, 777 TotaL MusruM CoLLEcTIONS ....... 35, 302, 807
were received by an exchange with the American Museum of Natural History in New York.
For the first time in 50 years the Museum received a skull with an anomaly heretofore not represented in its collection of 18,000 human skulls—an extra suture dividing one of the parietal bones into two nearly equal parts. This skull was found on the surface of the ground near Cleveland, Ohio, and was sent in for identification by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

<<<Page: 27>>>

Zoology
Outstanding among the Museum’s accessions of mammals from the Asiatic region are more than 1,500 small mammals collected in Korea by units of the Army Medical services in connection with hemorrhagic fever surveys; 625 mammals collected in Thailand by Robert K. Elbel; about 300 mammals obtained in North Borneo jointly by the U. S. Army Medical Research Unit and the British Colonial Office Medical Research Unit with the further cooperation of R. K. Elbel; and several lots of mammals from Formosa obtained by Dr. Donald J. Pletsch and medical units of the U. S. Navy. A gift of 186 specimens from the British Museum added several African and Asiatic species not previously represented in the collections. Noteworthy accessions from the continental United States include a fine series of New England mammals presented by Dr. Harold B. Hitchcock; specimens from Indiana presented by R. E. Mumford; and a collection of southwestern mammals presented by the School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine, Loma Linda, Calif.
Mrs. Charles E. Ramsden’s gift of 1,773 skins, 75 skeletons, and 59 sets of eggs of birds from eastern Cuba, and the previous material from that country in the national collections, give the National Museum the largest and most complete lot of Cuban birds in any museum. The 1,802 skins, and other ornithological material collected for the Museum by Associate Curator H. G. Deignan from areas in Thailand not previously represented in the collections provide the data needed for the completion of his distributional check-list of the birds of the Indo-Chinese subregion. Donald W. Lamm made a notable addition to the earlier donations received from him from Mozambique, a further gift of 107 bird skins. In continuation of his survey of Panamanian ornithology, Dr. A. Wetmore contributed, through the Smithsonian, more than 1,200 bird skins and skeletons and 8 sets of eggs from areas in which he had not previously collected.
With three transfers of material collected by Dr. Robert E. Kuntz of Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3, the Museum has come into the possession of probably the best representation of Egyptian reptiles and amphibians (1,042 specimens) in any North American institution. Particularly valuable are 126 Brazilian frogs given by Dr. C. F. Walker of the University of Michigan. An exchange with the University of Illinois arranged by Dr. Hobart M. Smith added to the national collections 56 specimens that included paratypes of 50 species of reptiles and amphibians.
During the year the ichthyological collections were enhanced with the accession of a number of types among other valuable specimens of fish received as gifts, or by exchange, as follows: 4 holotypes and 2

<<<Page: 28>>>

paratypes from Dr. Giles W. Mead of Stanford University ; 2 holotypes and 2 paratypes from William C. Schroeder of the Museum of Comparative Zoology; holotype and paratypes of a new Scarus from the Galapagos Islands from Dr. Bruce W. Halstead, School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine, Loma Linda, Calif.; paratype of a Bermuda parrotfish from the Chicago Natural History Museum through Loren P. Woods; 3 paratypes of North American catfishes from Ralph Taylor, University of Michigan; 2 paratypes of Corydoras myersi from the University of Brazil, Rio de Janeiro, through Dr. Paulo de Miranda Ribeiro; 2 paratypes of fresh-water fishes from Dr. Frank B. Cross, University of Kansas; and the holotype of a new paralepid from Drs. Oscar Sette and Robert Harry of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Several large and otherwise important collections also received during the year include the entire collection of foreign fishes belonging to the State University of Iowa, received through Dr. Walter Thietje, comprising 3,694 specimens collected largely in the course of the several university expeditions to various parts of the world by the late Prof. C. C. Nutting, long a collaborator of the Smithsonian Institution; 1,155 fishes from the Gaudalupe River, Tex., presented by Robert Kuehne of the State Fish Hatchery at San Marcos; 207 fishes from the Gulf of Mexico, collected by the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Oregon, received through Stewart Springer in charge of the exploratory work; and the largest single accession of the year, 3,662 fishes collected in Egyptian waters by Dr. Robert E. Kuntz and members of the U. S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3.
More than 100,000 mosquitoes collected in Thailand by the donors, Mrs. Ernestine Thurman and her late husband, Lt. Comdr. Deed Thurman, formed an extremely important accession, the largest of many years. Dr. A. E. Emerson of the University of Chicago contributed further valuable termite material consisting of 986 specimens. From Dr. Annette Braun of Cincinnati, Ohio, was received an unusual and very valuable gift of 440 specimens of the work or “mines” of identified leaf-mining insects mounted in 22 books.
Other notable gifts were 3,758 beautifully prepared specimens of skippers and Microlepidoptera, received from Dr. Frank Morton Jones of Wilmington, Del.; 2,257 specimens of Microlepidoptera, from the late John L. Sperry, Riverside, Calif.; and a valuable series of 1,752 elaterid beetles selected from the J. A. Hyslop collection, from Helen Sollers, Washington, D. C.
Not less than 310 type specimens of invertebrates, ranging from protozoans and sponges to branchiobdellid worms and crustaceans, as well as a species of tunicate, were received from the following donors: Dr. David Causey, University of Arkansas; Drs. Wesley R. Coe and

<<<Page: 29>>>

Edward Brinton, Scripps Institution of Oceanography; Dr. M. W. de Laubenfels, Oregon State College; Dr. Edward Ferguson, Jr., South Carolina State Agricultural and Mechanical College; Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., University of Virginia; Dr. Perry C. Holt, East Tennessee State College; Dr. Arthur G. Humes, Boston University; Dr. Eugene N. Kozloff, Lewis and Clark College; Dr. N. T. Mattox, University of Southern California; Dr. George H. Penn, Tulane University; Dr. V. O. Sebastian, University of Madras; Dr. Willis L. Tressler, U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office; and Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Arctic Health Research Center. Some of the larger of the recent invertebrate accessions, which include a number of undescribed specimens, are: approximately 5,700 specimens of miscellaneous invertebrates from Ifaluk Atoll, Caroline Islands, received from the Pacific Science Board, National Research Council, through F. M. Bayer; 1,584 invertebrates, mostly crustaceans, from Arno Atoll, Marshall Islands, and Yap Island, Caroline Islands, received from Dr. Robert W. Hiatt, University of Hawaii; and more than 457 crustaceans and other invertebrates collected by the survey vessel Oregon in the Gulf of Mexico, received from the Fish and Wildlife Service through Stewart Springer.
The Museum is indebted to the Pacific Science Board, through F’. M. Bayer, for approximately 2,000 specimens of marine mollusks from Ifaluk Atoll, Caroline Islands; to Dr. Robert W. Hiatt for 3,000 specimens from Yap Island, Caroline Islands, and Arno Atoll, Marshall Islands; to Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke for about 500 specimens of mollusks which he collected from Kusaie, Caroline Islands, and to Maj. R. Raven-Hart for 210 specimens from Yasawa Islands, Fiji Islands. Likewise, the Museum’s collection of Cuban shells is now unsurpassed by that of any other institution, for this year Mrs. Charles E. Ramsden, of Santiago de Cuba, turned over to the Smithsonian Institution her late husband’s collection totaling considerably more than 23,000 land snails from Oriente Province, Cuba, the largest collection of Cuban Jand shells to be added in the past 25 years. Sefiora Blanca de la Torre de Rosales, of Havana, also donated from the collection of land shells made by her husband, the late Dr. Carlos de la Torre, a significant part containing nearly 9,000 specimens and 81 cotypes. Other accessions of mollusks worthy of note included 170 specimens, principally marine mollusks, from Portuguese East Africa, an area hitherto unrepresented in the collection, donated by Frederico Marques Borges; approximately 6,000 specimens, largely land and fresh-water mollusks of Texas, a gift from C. D. Orchard; 111 Mexican land mollusks including 69 paratypes of eight new species described by H. A. Pilsbry, from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; 9 specimens including 3 paratype lots of new species,

<<<Page: 30>>>

from 8. S. Berry; and the holotype of the new species and genus of cephalopod, Pickfordiateuthis pulchella Voss, from Florida, from Gilbert L. Voss.
As in past years the helminthological section of the division of mollusks received much type material, particularly with the collection of Acanthocephala and Trematoda gathered by the late Harley J. Van Cleave and received frem his estate. This is one of the world’s outstanding collections of these two groups. Other types of helminths received were the holotype of a new species of trematode, Paurorhynchus hiodontis, from Dr. E. KE. Dickerman; the holotype and allotype of a new nematode, Camallanus carangis, from Dr. Leland S. Olsen; and the holotypes of two parasitic worms, Gigantorhynchus ortizt Sarmiento and Lynwrufonema wilsoni Stough, from the Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station, through Dr. W. L. Threlkeld.
Botany
More than 30,000 specimens were collected for the Museum by staff members: 24,161 obtained in Fiji by Dr. A. C. Smith under a grant from the National Science Foundation; 1,143 from Tlaxcala and Michoacan, México, by Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, including a number of new or rare species; 2,/80 from southern Brazil by Dr. Lyman B. Smith in connection with his studies of bromeliads under the auspices of the Rockefeller Foundation, the Servigo Nacional de Malaria, and other Brazilian institutions; 1,400 from the Isle of Pines, Cuba, and 1,090 from Big Pine Key, Fla., by E. P. Killip in his intensive floristic studies; and 126 from the Ryukyu Islands by E. H. Walker.
An interesting collection of 65,327 miscellaneous plants was received as a transfer from the herbarium of the National Arboretum. Also transferred by the Department of Agriculture were 7,280 plants collected by Richard Evans Schultes in the tropical forests of Colombia.
An important collection of 893 plants of Iran, collected by Dr. K. H. Rechinger, and 187 ferns of Malaya, chiefly from Selangor, were purchased for the herbarium.
Gifts, with names requested, included 1,056 plants of Tonga from Dr. T. H. Yuncker of DePauw University ; 433 plants of México from Prof. Eizi Matuda, México, D. F.; and 1,122 Virginia and West Virginia plants from H. A. Allard. Kay H. Beach presented 471 plants of southern Asia to the Museum.
Among the numerous collections received in exchange were 2,505 plants from the Universitetets Botaniske Museum, Copenhagen; 870 plants of Haiti from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm ; 688 plants of the Dominican Republic from the Arnold Arboretum; 548 plants of México from the University of Michigan; 391 plants of

<<<Page: 31>>>

Australia from Cornell University; and 350 plants of Russia from the V. L. Komarov Botanical Institute, Academy of Sciences of the U.S. S. R., Leningrad.
Geology
Accessions for the year in the division of mineralogy and petrology contain an unusually large number of outstanding exhibition specimens.
Added to the Roebling collection are two unusually rare and fine groups of large aquamarine crystals upon a matrix of crystallized albite, a fine flawless aquamarine crystal with many brilliant natural facets, and a large, flawless crystal of pale yellowish-green spodumene, the variety triphane, all from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. A pendant of white opal with rich fire, weighing 155 carats, is an outstanding example of the quality of stone from Coober Pedy, Australia, and another, of black opal weighing 44 carats from Lightning Ridge, New South Wales, shows much of the red fire so desirable in this stone. A synthetic emerald crystal, weighing 1,014 carats, made in the laboratories of Carroll Chatham, San Francisco, is said to have taken two years to produce and to be the finest synthetic emerald crystal made. Also added to the Roebling gems is a 514-carat cut brown sphene from a newly discovered occurrence in Baja California.
The Canfield collection was enriched by a suite of well-crystallized minerals from the lead-zinc mines of Trepca, Yugoslavia, and includes pyrrhotite, marmatite, arsenopyrite, and jamesonite. One of the finest groups of brown barite crystals from the well-known occurrence at Elk Creek, S. Dak., was also acquired. A thorianite crystal, about an inch cube, is unusual for its size.
In accordance with the Museum’s aim to have examples of all mineral species, the following forms, previously unrepresented, were acquired : chinoite and callaghanite (gift of Dr. Carl W. Beck), bazzite and thoreaulite (gift of Dr. F. H. Pough), burbankite and calkinsite (gift of Dr. W. T. Pecora), and kobelite (gift of F. A. Rapp) ; basaluminite, hydrobasaluminite, cattierite, gunnbjarnite, iron-sericite, magnesium-sericite, metajarlite, osumilite, and weberite, received in exchange; reedmergnerite, faustite, and hummerite, transferred from the U. S. Geological Survey; and moraesite, tavorite, barbosalite, and ordonezite, described from Museum material.
Many fine specimens were received as gifts. The finest crystal of the very rare mineral genthelvite was received from J. W. Adams. A rich mass of pitchblende from the famous Mi Vida mine was donated by the owner, Charles Steen; and a fine exhibition specimen of prehnite from a new Virginia locality was presented by Mr. and Mrs. John D. Atkins.

<<<Page: 32>>>

A 5-carat brilliant-cut yellow sphene from Baja California and a 4514-carat morganite of unusual apricot color from Brazil were added to the Isaac Lea collection, through the Chamberlain fund.
Dr. Stuart H. Perry continued his interest in the meteorite collections by a gift of three specimens of the Canyon Diablo, Ariz., iron, and a specimen of the newly discovered Tambo Quemade, Pert, meteorite. A particularly important gift is his collection of 2,000 carefully prepared and selected negatives of photomicrographs of meteoric iron.
Desirable additions to the ore collections are gifts of selected suites of typical ores from Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co. (Inspiration, Ariz.), and Phelps Dodge Corp. (Bisbee District, Ariz.).
Of more than usual interest is a representative set of rocks from the new Japanese voleano Syowa Sinzan, Hokkaido, received as an exchange from Prof. Kenzo Yagi of Tohoku University. Other important additions to the petrological collections were a series of rocks illustrating the petrology of the Hakone Mountains, Japan, as described by Prof. Hisashi Kuno, Tokyo University, and another of the Highwood Mountains, Mont., as described by Prof. Esper S. Larsen, Jr., Harvard University.
Among the important accessions in invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany were collections made by members of the staff operating under the support of the Walcott fund. These collections include Cretaceous mollusks from Texas, by David Nicol; Paleozoic invertebrates from the vicinity of Cumberland, Md., by Dr. G. A. Cooper, Dr. Arthur Boucot, U. S. Geological Survey, and Roger Batten, Columbia University; Devonian invertebrate fossils obtained by Dr. Cooper in Michigan, Ontario, and New York, and a large collection of invertebrate fossils by Dr. Cooper and W. T. Allen in West Texas, Oklahoma, and Kansas.
Additions to the Springer collection include 369 echinoderms from the Pennsylvanian Francis shale of Oklahoma and 15 rare echinoderms from Devonian rocks of Ontario, Canada.
Among important gifts from scientists and other private individuals, particular mention should be made of 150 specimens of Triassic fossils from Italy, received from Dr. Franco Rasetti; 400 Triassic fossils from Nevada, from Dr. J. Lee Adams; 500 Lower Cretaceous mollusks from Texas, from Carl R. Chelf; 150 late Miocene mollusks from Washington, from S. E. Crumb; and 300 Devonian fossils from New York, from Max J. Kopf.
Transfers from other government agencies include the holotype of the rare trilobite Colpocoryphe exsul Whittington, and the rare trilobite Hoekaspis from Bolivia, as well as collections of Eocene radiolaria from Saipan, and of Cretaceous pelecypoda, received from the

<<<Page: 33>>>

U. S. Geological Survey; and a lot of brachiopods, from the Fish and Wildlife Service.
An outstanding collection of over 600 specimens of rare Paleocene and Eocene mammals was secured by Curator C. L. Gazin and Franklin L. Pearce in central and southwestern Wyoming during the past summer. Included in the collection are materials representing a variety of Paleocene mammals from a recently discovered locality in the Bison Basin of south-central Wyoming; special mention may be made of the skull of a large pantodont mammal new to science. Small collections were made from a number of other localities in the early Tertiary rocks of Wyoming. A collection representing a surprising variety of forms, and including in particular some beautifully preserved remains of Meniscotherium, was obtained from the Cathedral Bluff tongue of fluviatile deposits in the lower part of the important Green River oil shales.
Of considerable scientific importance also is a collection of undistorted fossil fish made by a party under Dr. J. B. Reeside, Jr., of the U. S. Geological Survey, from the Cretaceous Mowry shale in Park County, Wyo. This collection was included among the recent transfers from the U. S. Geological Survey. The specimens were encountered in nodules and, being undistorted, lend themselves particularly to acetic acid treatment, revealing much of the detailed skull structure which it has not been possible to secure before.
A highly important gift from the Walcott fund, secured through a purchase from Dr. J. Magruder Sullivan, formerly of Millsaps College, includes the type of the titanothere NVotiotitanops mississippiensis, from the Eocene Lisbon formation of Mississippi, and a described skull and jaws of the archaeocete whale Zygorhiza kochii, from the Upper Eocene Jackson formation of Mississippi. These were deposited on loan to the Nationai Museum for study several years ago and are significant in that the titanothere, in addition to being a type specimen, furnishes the only direct means of an age correlation between the marine gulf coast Eocene with the continental Eocene deposits of the Rocky Mountain region. The zeuglodont whale has furnished the first conclusive evidence of the replacement sequence of deciduous teeth by the permanent series in the order of whales.
An important exchange resulted in securing a series of 22 specimens and casts of ostracoderms, or primitive jawless fish, from the Upper Silurian of Norway and Spitzbergen, obtained from the Paleontologisk Museum of Norway. This group was not previously represented in the collections of the U. S. National Museum.
The skull and partial skeleton of a rare enbolomerous amphibian from the Pennsylvanian rocks of Ohio were recently given to the National Museum by the Ohio Geological Survey through State Geol

<<<Page: 34>>>

ogist John H. Melvin. The specimen was collected by Russell J. Lehman and others in Jefferson County. The embolomeres are important as representing structurally the connecting link between the amphibians and cotylosaurs or stem reptiles. This is the first skull of this group of amphibians to be added to the national collections.
A transfer of particular merit from the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys includes some 57 specimens of Oligocene mammals, mostly of rodents and other elements of the microfauna, secured by Dr. T. E. White from the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in Montana. These add significantly to the growing collections made by the River Basin Surveys in its explorations and salvaging of scientific materials in areas to be flooded through dam construction.
Exploration of the cliffs of the Chesapeake Bay have resulted in the finding of much material of scientific importance, representing for the most part cetaceans from the upper Miocene Calvert formation. Recent searches by Wallace L. Ashby of Springfield, Va., have resulted in the discovery of a well-preserved skull and mandibles of a longbeaked porpoise which he kindly presented to the Museum. A Ahabdosteus skull discovered by Roger L. Batten, of Columbia University, was collected by a party in which he was accompanied by Wallace Ashby, Dr. Remington Kellogg, and Dr. D. H. Dunkle.
Engineering and Industries
In 1793, at Newburyport, Mass., John and Arthur Scholfield, English mechanicians, constructed from memory a wool-carding machine which was the first of its type in America. This machine was presented to the national collections by Davis and Furber Machine Co. From William Young Patch, through Ruth Hawkes, was received the oldest sampler now in the permanent collections. It was made about 1740. Three large pieces of needlepoint made in the 1850’s were lent by Crystal Palmer. Scale models of a water-power grist mill, an oxpower cane mill, and a windmill-driven water lift for a salt works were presented by Daniel Thompson. These are operative models of installations formerly in use in Puerto Rico. Important additions to the wood collections included a group of 279 woods of Fiji collected by Dr. A. C. Smith of the Department of Botany; 124 woods from Japan, Thailand, Australia, and the Hong Kong market, presented by Col. Harold B. Donaldson; 86 native United States woods from the College of Forestry, State University of New York; 72 woods of Yucatan, the Marshall Islands, and other regions, transferred from the Forest Products Laboratory of the U. S. Department of Agriculture; and 29 woods, mostly of Guatemala, from Orville A. Oaks.

<<<Page: 35>>>

J. W. Jones, inventor, presented an early automobile speedometer of his design. A schematic model of a gas-turbine, electric generating plant was presented by the Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co. Dr. Walter Cane presented a well-preserved example of the Mignon typewriter. Ralph E. Cropley continued to add to the collection of scrapbook data on watercraft history.
A series of 17 chiaroscuro woodcuts by John Baptist Jackson was acquired as a purchase through the Dahlgreen fund. This set, published in Venice in 1754, represents the first attempt to reproduce paintings in the block print medium. Jackson was probably the most important man to work with block prints in color since the early 16th century.
Thirteen woodcuts by the contemporary Israeli artists Jacob Pins, Mordechai Avniel, and Jakob Steinhardt were presented to the collections by local donors. Their subjects are views of Jerusalem and environs, native types, and subjects from the Old Testament.
“Santa Clara Valley,” by Antonio Frasconi, was purchased through the Dahlgreen fund. Ten woodcuts by J. J. Lankes, one of the best known American engravers, were acquired as a gift from Harrison Elliott.
“Tandscape,” an encaustic color etching by Milton Goldstein, was purchased through the Dahlgreen fund. Mr. Goldstein makes use of not colored waxes combined with glazes of transparent printing inks to achieve extremely rich color effects.
Mrs. Thomas Armat presented a 17.5 mm. motion picture projector designed by her late husband for amateur use and made about 1916. ‘his machine has an intermittent movement quite different from the three previously attributed to Armat. The Eastman Kodak Co., through Keith Lewis, presented a Ciné Kodak Special IT 16 mm. motion picture camera, a Signet 35 mm. camera, one Brownie Hawkeye Flash Model camera, a Kodalite Flasholder and three supplementary lenses for the motion picture camera. “Bacterial Luminescence,” a photograph illustrating the use of photography in scientific investigation, was presented by the maker, Dr. Frank H. Johnson of Princeton University. This print won an honorable mention in the Color Division of the Second Annual Photography-in-Science Competition in 1948. Four pictorial photographic prints by Hans Marx were purchased through the Kickemeyer fund.
Sir Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of penicillin, presented a specimen of the mold Penicillimm notatum; and the Sir William Dunn School of Pathology at the University of Oxford, through Dr. N. G. Heatley, donated two of the original porcelain culture vessels from which was prepared the first crystalline penicillin used in clinical studies.

<<<Page: 36>>>

Lederle Laboratories, through F. L. Murphy, contributed a test tube of some of the original soil from which aureomycin was isolated and five petri dishes prepared by Dr. Duggar, the discoverer of aureomycin, showing Streptomyces aureofaciens tested against other microorganisms. Among the many other additions were three late nineteenth-century American nursing bottles from the Landmarks Society of Alexandria through the Stabler-Leadbeater Apothecary Shop; a nineteenth-century Whitall-Tatum “Three Star” nursing bottle from Mrs. James E. Bowman; an 1880 tin nursing bottle with cork stopper by John Sanner of Mount Blanchard, Ohio, the gift of Mrs. W. E. Houck; and a silver nursing nipple of about 1850 presented by Ruth L. Meehan.
A set of barber-dental-bloodletting instruments was donated by Mrs. Frank J. Selinger, Jr., in memory of her husband, through Mrs. Paul J. Selinger. The Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Medical Museum, through Brig. Gen. Elbert Decoursey, lent nine replicas of Pompeiian surgical instruments; Mary K. Curtin added a set of surgical instruments used by Dr. George Taylor, of Baltimore, in the 1850's.
The Sanborn Co., through James L. Jenks, Jr., contributed the electrocardiograph used for taking the first electrocardiogram of a white Beluga whale, and Dr. Paul Dudley White added the harpoon electrode which was used in these studies on the whale.
The F. J. Stokes Machine Co. was responsible for locating a “rapidfire” suppository machine at the Jenkins Laboratories and a Eureka tablet machine at the Columbia University College of Pharmacy. The Norwich Pharmacal Co. contributed a gelatin pill coater which was used in 1885 and two early bottles of pills that were coated on this machine. <A bottle of Garnier-Lamoureux and Co.’s sugar-coated granules, the first sold in America, was donated by the State of Wisconsin Historical Society. Sharp & Dohme, S. E. Massengill Co., and Upjohn Co. contributed early pieces of equipment that were used by the respective companies for the manufacture of pharmaceuticals prior to 1900.
History
The civil history collections were enriched by the gift of Walter Voigt of a one-horse open sleigh of the colonial period, with the date “1769” carved in the center back panel under a painted pine tree decoration. Tradition associates the sleigh with General George Washington, who is said to have used it in the New Jersey campaign of the Revolution.
Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented her pink silk inaugural ball gown to be placed in the collection of dresses of the First Ladies of
317706—b4 8

<<<Page: 37>>>

the White House. It is anticipated that the dress will be placed on exhibition at the time of the opening of the new First Ladies Hall. She also gave the Museum the ecru lace dress she wore when she married Dwight D. Eisenhower on July 1, 1916. This wedding dress was a gift to the collection of American period costumes and it is a very good example of the styles being worn just before World War I.
Specimens of furniture and room accessories have been received for use in the series of period rooms of the White House in which the dresses of the First Ladies will be displayed. Among generous donors of materials of this sort were Mr. Awbrey N. Shaw of Brooklyn, N. Y., and Mrs. W. Murray Crane of New York City.
From William A. Hambley, Jr., of Washington, D. C., was received a large collection of German insignia of the period of World War II, including two complete uniforms, one of an “SS” officer. Received from H. W. Miller of the University of Michigan was a scale model of the “Paris Gun,” one of the so-called “Big Berthas” which shelled Paris during World War I. Mr. Miller is the author of an authoritative work on the gun.
Two manuscript maps of the Civil War were received, one of Fort Fisher and another of Fort Clay, Lexington, Ky. James Waldo Fawcett, local columnist, donated a Russian automatic pistol captured from a North Korean during the hostilities there.
An engraved powder horn of 1762 was presented by Mrs. Stella Crooks and Miss Ethel Crooks of Seattle, Wash. Engraved horns of the period of the French and Indian War are rare and very desirable.
The numismatic accessions include an Indian peace medal of Andrew Johnson, dated 1865, in silver 214 inches in diameter. One of the few such pieces extant, it was presented by Miss Lucia K. Williams, Washington, D. C.
From the Government of the British Empire was received a gift of three different medals of the Order of the British Empire, seven campaign stars, the Defense medal, and the War medal, all of World War II period.
The Post Office Department continued to forward one specimen of each new stamp distributed by the Universal Postal Union, a total of 2,341 stamps being received as transfers. The Post Office also forwarded three specimens of each new United States stamp.
A major philatelic addition came through the cooperation of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, T. Coleman Andrews. In March 57,955 U. S. revenue stamps, die proofs, and plate proofs were transferred to the national postage stamp collection. This transfer is of considerable importance and fills a large gap in the collection.
Through the cooperation of the Secret Service, Department of the Treasury, an important accumulation of U. S. and foreign counter

<<<Page: 38>>>

feits has been deposited with the Division of Philately. This material, comprising usually matched singles and blocks of four, was gathered by the late George d’Utassy.
Gifts of major importance were also donated by John R. Boker, Jr., Ralph A. Schoenfeld, Ernst Lowenstein, Philip Ward, Jr., and Arthur F. Black.

<<<Page: 39>>>

Care of Collections
Trans-
Gifts to fad Loaned for
Submitted Erchanged educato other study to in-
for with other tional Governvestigators Received in identifiIdentified _instituinstitument and instiDepartment accessions cation On request tions tions agencies tutions
Anthropology.. 22,816 2,649 2,649 59 89 1 719
Zoology....... 307,361 64,086 57,934 20,887 11, 754 508 47, 022
Botany 137,609 15,429 13,738 3,025 1,894 ay lhe, ably
Geology....... 54, 399 6,396 6,265 2,688 1,279 121 2,363 Engineering and
Industries ... 1, 947 723 717 73 35 0 194
JEDKOIAS co b00c 108, 111 16,428 16, 420 2 1 5 = 8, 558
Toran... 632,243 105,711 97,723 26,734 15,052 638 76,268
Anthropology
Except for the Mexican and Panamanian materials, the reorganization of the Latin American study collections in the division of archeology is now complete. It has been possible to find storage space for the new accessions made during the fiscal year, but the saturation point has been reached for certain areas. Owing to the modernization of exhibits in Hall 23 and the need to store specimens removed from this hall, little was accomplished on the long-term program of reworking and condensing the study collections of the various states in the North American archeological collections.
Even though accessions in archeology increased 91 percent over last year, the collections in great measure have been accessioned and most of the specimens have also been cataloged and marked. There is need, however, for proper facilities for storage and preservation of the prehistoric Chilean and Peruvian textiles, and, in fact, the whole problem of storage is pressing, since it is no longer possible to keep related materials reasonably close to one another. Scattered storage increases custodial chores and complicates the task of finding specific items.
Assistant Curator of Ethnology Robert A. Elder, Jr., has succeeded in developing considerable data on hitherto inadequately described specimens, many of which were received 50 to 75 years ago, and is

<<<Page: 40>>>

continuing his program of eliminating from the collections those specimens of no further scientific or educational value.
In addition to constructing the diorama, “The Lucayan Indians Discover Columbus,” Chief Preparator A. J. Andrews repaired and restored numerous artifacts for the various divisions, as well as three statues for the National Collection of Fine Arts. He also gave numerous visitors instructions in the making of casts and preservation of perishable objects.
Loology
The merger of the mammal collection of the Fish and Wildlife Service with that of the National Museum, initiated last year, is now about 15 percent complete. The skin and skull collections of the marsupials, insectivores, flying lemurs, and bats are completed and a beginning was made on the primates. Merging the collections of bird skins of these two agencies, started eleven years ago, was concluded this year.
A new type of bracket for holding skulls with spreading horns and antlers has been designed to help solve the difficult problem of protecting and storing these easily damaged and space-consuming specimens. Also completed was the enlargement of the facilities for storing large tanned skins and the installation of the refrigerating equipment for their protection against various insect pests, but the skins removed to an adjacent room during the remodeling are yet to be replaced and the collection reorganized. A new system of labeling of trays and drawers in the mammal collection, obviating much handling of specimens and facilitating reference to them, has been installed in the merged portions of the collection and will be continued throughout. As time and opportunity allowed, the reidentifying and relabeling of all specimens in the bird collection was continued.
For larger fish, and larger lots of fish, the 11 monel metal tanks _ furnished during the year released shelf space formerly occupied by 22 earthenware crocks, which do not hold up for long-time storage.
In the insect collection, 50 drawers of Lepidoptera from the Smythe collection and 80 Schmitt boxes of miscellaneous Lepidoptera were incorporated in the National Museum collection. The neotropical Lycaenidae were completely rearranged by Associate Curator W. D. Field, while the staff otherwise fumigated and partly distributed a very large number of miscellaneous insects, chiefly Coleoptera that had accumulated over the years in the former curator’s office.
All type specimens of crustaceans and echinoderms and most of the worm types were checked during the year. For more ready ref

<<<Page: 41>>>

erence the collection of hydromedusae were rearranged in alphabetical order. The curatorial staff of the division of marine invertebrates continues to maintain the alcoholic echinoderm collections, which have been without an official curator since December 1950.
For the first time in the history of the division of mollusks, the cephalopod collection of more than a thousand lots of specimens has been overhauled, relabeled, reorganized, and brought together in one place. Concomitantly, all unidentified cephalopod material was sorted largely to suborders and thus made more readily available to workers on this group. This praiseworthy task was accomplished last summer on a volunteer basis by Gilbert L. Voss, a member of the faculty and research staff of the Marine Laboratory of the University of Miami, assisted by W. J. Byas, museum aide.
The physical condition of the slide and alcoholic collection of helminths housed and cared for by the Animal Disease and Parasite Branch, Agricultural Research Service, Beltsville, Md., continues good, but for want of the necessary assistance the greater part of two outstanding American parasitological collections still remain uncataloged: the Henry B. Ward collection, accessioned in 1946, and the George La Rue collection, accessioned in 1952.
To the vertebrate divisions of the department the exhibits preparators again rendered many necessary services: skinning, scraping, and degreasing as required, and in part making up 10 mammal and 17 bird skins; mounting 2 birds, cleaning 170 skeletons and 1,537 skulls of mammals and birds, 5 turtle skeletons, and 2 reptile skulls; and blowing 12 crocodile eggs.
Botany
The completion of the new balcony over the east half of the herbarium has provided much needed space for expansion of the overcrowded collections. When additional cases are available, the herbarium can be rearranged, resulting in proper preservation of materials and more convenient working conditions.
The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the processing of new material are summarized in the following table:
1952-58 1968-54
Specimens mounted) saiiepeehi era tal ag ile: a Wee 34,616 35, 124 SPeClMeNnsTepAILed as hceile oneal eA Se lcia CN esate 4, 935 2, 410 Specimens stamped and recorded. ........ 36,655 37,338 Specimens incorporated in herbarium ....... 30,831 22, 937 Photographs mounted) ..isyeee miei Mtl Oe bea ie 1, 810 99
The number of types segregated from incoming material and the general herbarium was 463. The type herbarium now contains 54,393 types, including 38,357 phanerogams, 9,810 grasses, 3,197 ferns, and

<<<Page: 42>>>

3,029 cryptogams. Many cryptogam types remain in the general collections.
Thirty-one publications were added to the Hitchcock and Chase Library, making a total of 7,049. The grass species index contains 78,870 entries, an increase of 442 during the year. Through the generosity of Mrs. Agnes Chase, a duplicate copy of the index is being prepared.
Geology
With the completion of the giant ground sloth material from Panama, the vertebrate paleontology laboratory was occupied with the preparation of the early Tertiary mammal material collected during the past field season, which is now completed, and the preparation of a large Devonian armored fish, which still requires completion. The new method of chemical etching of Jurassic fish and reptile material from Cuba, and Middle Cretaceous fishes from Wyoming, has been continued and is yielding good results.
In the division of paleontology and paleobotany Robert Main, Museum aide, continued the organization, begun last year, of collections store in the attic, with the result that about one-quarter of the several thousand drawers have been recorded. Mr. Main has further taken over many of the tasks connected with the acid-etch laboratory to recover silicified fossils from limestone blocks.
Associate Curator David Nicol sorted and prepared material collected by him and by Curator G. A. Cooper from the Cretaceous limestone near Whitney and Burnett, Tex., as well as Pennsylvanian collections in the recently acquired Renfro collection of Texas fossils.
During most of the fiscal year Associate Curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr., was in Kurope. The month of June, after his return, was devoted to the unpacking and organizing of the extensive collections of foraminiferal material made during the year.
In connection with his studies Curator G. A. Cooper found it necessary to make many intricate dissections and preparations of productid brachiopods, thereby greatly enhancing the study value of these collections. The revision of the brachiopod biological collections was continued, resulting in the gain of some space and better organization of the collection of punctate brachiopods.
The interest of Dr. Serge Mamay, of the U. S. Geological Survey, in the organization of the Paleozoic plant collections has led to a gain in space and storage units for other parts of the collection.
The division of mineraology and petrology began the use of polyethylene plastic bags for such minerals as are unstable in Washington’s humid climate.

<<<Page: 43>>>

Engineering and Industries
In the section of textiles 918 specimens of textile materials previously cataloged only in an old unworkable system were brought into the present series and cross-referenced. The entire reference collection of woods was transferred from makeshift storage in exhibition fixtures to standard quarter-units, permitting fumigation in place and the generally more efficient preservation of the collections. During the year, 850 uniform wood samples were cut and numbered. A large number of objects of the manufactures and agriculture reference collections were transferred to new equipment and permanent locations in the storage court. In the section of electricity the cataloging and organizing of the large collection of old electrical instruments is proceeding steadily. A major undertaking was completed in the cleaning and insect-proofing of the automobile and carriage collections.
In graphic arts about 600 reproductions and prints of slight value were removed from the collections for condemnation and 150 prints were matted for preservation. Several hundred woodcuts and wood engravings were assembled from scattered locations and consolidated into one reference group. A similar number of new catalog cards were made. More than 1,000 photographic objects were removed from storage bases in exhibition fixtures and placed in standard storage cases in the storage court. Detailed plans for the improved storage of the photographic print collection in modern reference cabinets were drawn. Air conditioning equipment for the better preservation of this collection was purchased.
In medicine and public health, students of the College of Pharmacy of Howard University are organizing the materia medica collection for efficient reference. Obsolete exhibition material from the old health exhibits has been separated for condemnation.
History
The problem of storing all the specimens removed from exhibition because of the work on the Costumes Hall has overshadowed other work on the preservation of the collections in the division of civil history. However, substantial work was done by Museum Aide Frank Klapthor, who spent much of his time on the preservation of specimens. He has cleaned, identified, and cataloged most of the silver from both the storage and exhibition collections.
A new ventilating fan in the southwest tower storeroom of the divisions of military and naval history has lowered the temperature of the room in which specimens are stored. The patent office study collection of firearms was installed in a new line-up readily accessible to the office of military history. Segregation of the specialized col

<<<Page: 44>>>

lections of the division was continued. Al heavy ordnance materials, machine guns, small arms, and miscellaneous military equipment now have distinctly separated storage areas.
New stockbooks have been set up for part of the philatelic collections, and stamps have been grouped together from the many known sources. A definite start has been made in the equally important remounting program—linked with the renovation work in the West Hall, which necessitated temporarily closing off the stamp cabinets. The United States section has been removed from the display frames, checked for damage, and added to the newly set up United States stockbooks. Specimens have been checked for accuracy of classification, and have been rechecked by authorities such as Philip H. Ward, Jr., Lester G. Brookman, and John A. Fox.
The entire United States section is in the process of being remounted on Scott National sheets, which are printed and therefore eliminate the time-consuming typing and adjusting of new pages. It is expected the sheets will make for greater compactness.
To properly care for the reference collections and specialized gift collections, additional safe facilities have been secured. One small safe was exchanged for a larger unit, and three additional safes have been secured during the past year.

<<<Page: 45>>>

Investigation and Research
Anthropology
In collaboration with Frederick D. McCarthy, curator of anthropology, Australian Museum, Sydney, the head curator, Frank M. Setzler, completed a manuscript, “The Archeology of Arnhem Land.” He also submitted for publication “Dermatoglyphics in Australian Aborigines,” in which he participated with Prof. Harold Cummins, Department of Anatomy, Tulane University. A third manuscript, analyzing the hair samples which the head curator collected in Australia, entitled “Hair of Australian Aborigines (Arnhem Land),” was prepared in collaboration with Prof. Mildred Trotter and Oliver H. Duggins, Department of Anatomy, Washington University, St. Louis, Mo. These papers complete a portion of the work undertaken by Mr. Setzler as a member of Australian-American Expedition to Arnhem Land in 1948.
At the request of the National Park Service, the head curator prepared an introduction to an archeological report analyzing the results of explorations of Mound C, Ocmulgee National Monument, at Macon, Ga., in which he described the archeological work undertaken by various governmental relief agencies such as the CWA, WPA and PWA.
Physical Anihropology.—The curator of physical anthropology, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, spent most of September excavating part of a prehistoric Indian ossuary discovered on the farm of Mr. Bernward Juhle on Nanjemoy Creek, near Ironsides, Charles County, Md. Dr. Newman, associate curator, assisted in this work, and toward the end of the month, when Dr. Stewart was taken ill, finished removing the exposed skeletons. Later in the year, when the bones were cleaned, Dr. Stewart made a further sorting, looking for evidence of burial customs and signs of pathology. Further research upon this material must await the compiete excavation of the ossuary.
Karly in the year the Memorial Division, Office of the Quartermaster General, requested Dr. Stewart’s services to study in Japan the skeletal remains of soldiers to be removed from North Korea, with the view of producing better information for the estimation of age from the skeleton. Dr. Stewart decided it would be profitable to

<<<Page: 46>>>

examine the sternum for a sequence of age modifications. The results of the search among skeletons in the National Museum were embodied in a paper read at the annual meeting of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists in Yellow Springs, Ohio, March 26-28. Subsequently this paper was expanded and submitted for publication in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology.
The publication of a report by Robert Hanna, graduate student at the University of Chicago, who undertook a few years ago to sex some of the Museum’s Eskimo skeletons by means of a metrical device, the ischio-pubic index, stimulated Dr. Stewart to compare Hanna’s metrical determinations of sex with determinations by a simple inspectional method. His critique of these methods is to appear in a forthcoming issue of the American Journal of Physical Anthropology.
As part of the study of the remains of two putatively ancient Americans—the Confins man, from Brazil, and a newly discovered skull from near Midland, Tex., found in association with Folsom artifacts—Dr. Stewart arranged to have samples of the human bone and associated animal bones tested for fluorine by Dr. F. J. McClure, National Institute of Dental Research. In both cases the associated animals are typical of the Pleistocene fauna, thereby a relative dating is yielded by the comparative amounts of fluorine in the bones. At the close of the year Dr. Stewart was in the process of interpreting the data. In general it can be said that the chemical and geological datings are in agreement.
Associate Curator M. T. Newman completed a manuscript describing and analyzing a small lot of Indian skulls from newly discovered Archaic levels in Georgia. This work, which will be published in the Anthropological Papers of the Bureau of American Ethnology, is of importance primarily because it extends the range of an early Indian variety. Dr. Newman furthered but did not complete his research on the skeletal material recovered by the 1948 Arnhem Land expedition to Australia. He prepared a critical report entitled “The Physical Similarities of American Indians and Polynesians,” in which he appraises the morphological and blood group evidence which Heyerdahl used in his “American Indians in the Pacific.” The associate curator furthered the research leads developed in his recent paper on ecology as it relates to the American Indian. This work was summarized in a lecture, “The Application of Ecological Principles to Human Evolution and to the Origin of Modern Races,” given before the Paleontological Society of Washington.
Archeology.—Curator Waldo R. Wedel submitted for publication his manuscript, “Observations on Some 19th Century Pottery Vessels from the Upper Missouri.” ‘This study deals with ceramics of the post-1800 period in North Dakota, a period from which almost noth

<<<Page: 47>>>

ing has heretofore been recorded, since it lies between the better-known archeological complexes pre-dating the year 1800 and the ethnological records of reservation days following the Indian wars. Despite the common view that there was no pottery worthy of the name at this late date, some 25 specimens were traced down, in the national collections and in other institutions, that document the decline and final disappearance of the native potter’s art on the Upper Missouri. Dr. Wedel also added ethno-historic and other data to his manuscript on Kansas archeology, based on field work done in 1937-40; and has under way an intensive analysis of archeological materials from the Horner site, a 7,000-year-old camp site near Cody, Wyo., at which a joint Smithsonian Institution-Princeton University expedition excavated in 1952.
Associate Curator Clifford Evans and his coworker, Dr. Betty J. Meggers, submitted for publication a monograph, “Archeological Investigations at the Mouth of the Amazon.” This large research report deals with the development of culture in the Lower Amazon, based upon field excavations undertaken in 1948-49, and is the first seientific study of this sort on the Amazon.
Analysis of the archeological and ethnological collections obtained by Dr. Evans and Dr. Meggers in British Guiana in 1952-53 is in its preliminary stages. Examination of comparative materials from British Guiana collected in the early 1900’s was completed at the Peabody Museum, Harvard University, and the American Museum of Natural History, and partially completed at the University Museum, Philadelphia, Pa.
Museum Aide George Metcalf completed a study of small sites in the Garrison Reservoir area in North Dakota, based on surveys and excavations made while he was with the Missouri River Basin Survey. This paper contributes detailed information on certain archeological features of an area about which practically nothing has been written by competent observers. Since the area involved is being flooded by the reservoir in the summer of 1954, it is likely that this paper is all that will appear in reference to the numerous Indian campsites, tipi rings, cairns, and other features with which the area abounds.
Neil M. Judd, research associate, whose paper, “Material Culture of Pueblo Bonito,” is scheduled for publication in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, made progress on his report of Pueblo del Arroyo. Completion of this will be materially expedited by a grant from the American Philosophical Society to cover certain technical aspects of the task. In recognition of his professional achievements in archeology, Mr. Judd was given the Franklin L. Burr award for 1954 by the National Geographic Society.

<<<Page: 48>>>

Ethnology.—Curator H. W. Krieger continued his long-range study of material culture from the Antillean and Indonesian areas.
Associate Curator John C. Ewers returned on July 11 from a 6weeks’ field investigation of the arts and crafts of the Assiniboin Indians of Fort Peck and Fort Belknap Reservations, Mont., where he obtained from elderly Indian informants and from practicing craftsmen and women information on the modification and disappearance ef traditional Assiniboin crafts during the Reservation period.
During the year Mr. Ewers completed an illustrated manuscript, “Hair Pipes in Plains Indian Adornment: A Study in Indian and White Ingenuity,” the first of a series of projected studies of change and stability in Plains Indian costume. He also wrote two shorter papers, “The Indian Trade of the Upper Missouri before Lewis and Clark: An Interpretation,” and “The Bear Cult of the Assiniboin and Their Neighbors of the Northern Plains.” He cooperated with Karl Viktor Prinz zu Wied and Dr. Joseph Roeder in preparing the published catalog for the traveling exhibition of original drawings and water colors by Carl Bodmer executed in the years 1833-34, when the artist accompanied Prince Karl Viktor’s great granduncle, Maximilian Prinz zu Wied, to the Indian country of the Upper Missouri.
In cooperation with Dr. Claude Schaeffer, Curator, Museum of the Plains Indian, Browning, Mont., Mr. Ewers began the editing of the Robert N. Wilson manuscript on the Blood Indians of Alberta, Canada. This early manuscript, owned by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, comprises the field notes and observations of Mr. Wilson, Blackfoot-speaking Indian trader among the Blood Indians in the early 1890’s, and contains a wealth of new material on the history and ethnology of that tribe. The publication will be enhanced by reproductions of Wilson’s own photographs taken in the Blood Indian camps. During the last half of the year Mr. Ewers served as senior editor of the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences.
Associate Curator C. Malcolm Watkins advanced his study of ceramics of the Virginia colony. Another week of field work was spent at the National Park Service laboratory in Jamestown, where he continued to examine and record pottery types found among the several thousand sherds stored there and to gather statistical information according to sites.
Research by visiting investigators.—During the year 3,642 visitors conferred with members of the staff on anthropological problems; 3,399 letters were written, and 8,429 telephonic inquiries were answered. The study collections were used for research purposes by scholars from Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, India, and West Germany.

<<<Page: 49>>>

Zoology
Mammals.—In continuation of his studies of the mammals of eastern Asia and the Australo-Pacific region, Dr. David H. Johnson, acting curator, devoted particular attention to the faunas of Korea, Siam, and North Borneo. He also issued a preliminary paper, dealing with a new marsupial, which will form a part of his general report of the mammals of Arnhem Land, northern Australia.
Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator, spent 6 weeks studying types and other significant specimens at the British Museum in furtherance of his studies of the mammals of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan for the U. S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3. Three preliminary papers based on specimens collected in that area were published, and the final report nearly completed. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate curator, practically completed his revision of the big-eared bats (Corynorhinus and related genera) ; made preliminary studies of the mammals of South-West Africa; and reviewed taxonomic and distributional problems involving the Neotropical genera Caluromys, Didelphis, Philander, and Cyclopes.
Birds.—The curator, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, revised his joint paper with Foster D. Smith on the birds of northeastern Venezuela, and contributed a revision of the classification of the honey-guides to a volume being printed by the Musée du Congo Belge in honor of Dr. Schouteden. Considerable work was also accomplished on the second volume of the “Birds of Mexico,” and on the fifth edition of the A. O. U. “Check List of North American Birds.” <A popular account of the honey-guides and a paper on the reduction of the clavicles in the Madagascar bird family Mesoentatidae (with F. R. Glenny) were published during the year. Under private research funds, received from the Guggenheim Foundation, Dr. Friedmann initiated a study of the role played by beeswax in the metabolism of the honey-guides.
Since his return from Siam early in the fiscal year, Associate Curator H. G. Deignan has been engaged in studying the materials he collected in that country. He also completed a critical review of the type specimens of birds in the Museum and completed studies of several of the genera of cuckoo-shrikes for Peters’ “Check List of Birds of the World.”
Samuel A. Arny, museum aide, continued his studies of the flycatchers of the genus I/yzarchus until his resignation early in the fiscal year. Hissuccessor, Gorman M. Bond, undertook a study of variations of the Maryland yellowthroat, Geothlypis trichas, in Central America.
Dr. A. Wetmore, research associate, worked on the fifth edition of the “Check List of North American Birds,” gave some time to

<<<Page: 50>>>

the extensive Panamanian and Colombian collections amassed during the past 15 years, and published four short papers.
Reptiles.—Associate Curator Doris M. Cochran continued her research on the frogs of southwestern Brazil and her work on a supplement to “The Herpetology of Hispaniola.” Considerable progress was made on her catalog of types of reptiles and amphibians in the national collections. During the year she completed and submitted for publication a paper describing a new species of frog from Kartabo, British Guiana.
Fishes.—Drs. Leonard P. Schultz and Ernest A. Lachner continued with the preparation of volume 2 of “The Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands.” ‘This extensive work, undertaken in conjunction with the atom-bomb experiments, has occupied nearly all of the research time of the curator since January 1946 and of the associate curator since February 1949. Volume 1 appeared in December 1958. The second volume is 85 percent completed and involves 25 families, 103 genera, and 257 species. In addition, Dr. Schultz published three research papers, and two semipopular ones on aquarium fishes, besides completing a manuscript revising the parrotfishes (family Scaridae) of the world, and, jointly with H. A. Axelrod, a “Handbook of Tropical Aquarium Fishes.” Dr. Lachner also published two research papers and has in varying stages of completion three others, including a revision of the shark-sucker fishes (family Echeneidae), “Populations of the Berycoid Family Polymixidae”, and “Inquilinism and a New Record for Paramia bipunctata, a Cardinal Fish from the Red Sea.”
Robert H. Kanazawa, biological aide, all but completed his revision of the conger eels before the close of the year.
In mid-November Dr. Schultz addressed the Eighth Pacific Science Congress in Manila on a new approach to the distribution of fishes in the Indo-West Pacific area. Later that month he repeated in part the same address at the Indian Museum, Calcutta, in connection with a discussion of coral reef fishes of the tropical Indo-Pacific. Earlier he had delivered a lecture, “Exploring the Oceans,” at the Deverau Schools, Downing, Pa. Returning from Manila by way of Europe, Dr. Schultz spent several days at the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, and the British Museum (Natural History), London, to examine types of Pacific parrotfishes. Dr, Lachner, in February, addressed the biology section of the Oceanographic Branch of the U. S. Hydrographic Office.
Insects.—Acting Curator O. L. Cartwright devoted his research time to a revision of the genus Onthophagus in the United States, and of the genus Ataenius for the Western Hemisphere.
Dr. Richard A. Blackwelder, associate curator, completed work on

<<<Page: 51>>>

part 6 of Bulletin 185, “Checklist of the Coleopterous Insects of Mexico, Central America, the West Indies, and South America.”
Associate Curator William D. Field completed a redefinition of the genera “TZ’atochila,” “Phulia,’ “Piercolias,” and “Baltia,” with the description of some new and closely related genera and subgenera. Mr. Field also completed a revision of the genera Theochila and Tatochila, and embarked upon a revision of the genera Constachila, Phulis, Piercolias, and Baltia.
Miss Grace Glance, associate curator, continued study of the Collembola and practically completed work on a very unusual isotomid.
Miss Sophy Parfin completed her revision of Western Hemisphere spongilla-fiies (Neuroptera, Sisyridae) except for the addition of a newly acquired species from South America.
Marine Invertebrates.—Curator F. A. Chace, Jr., completed the final draft of the chapter on the Crustacea Malacostraca for the revised edition of “Fresh-Water Biology” by Ward and Whipple, as well as manuscripts on some shrimps from the Marshall Islands, collected by expeditions sponsored by the U. S. Department of the Navy in 1946 and 1947, and a revised key to the subterranean shrimps of the Americas with descriptions of two new shrimps from subterranean waters of Florida and Mona Island, Puerto Rico. His study of the porcellanid crabs of West Africa is being continued. Associate Curator Il’. M. Bayer completed during the year three papers, one on the evolution and zoogeography of the octocorallian family Gorgoniidae; another on the alcyonarians and black corals of Rumphius’ “Herbarium Ambionense,” for a Rumphius memorial volume soon to be published in 'The Netherlands; and the third on the comparative anatomy of some gorgonaceans. He also nearly finished the section on the Octocorallia for the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology.”
On September 1, 1953, Mr. Bayer departed from Washington to participate in a general ecological survey of Ifaluk Atoll in the Caroline Islands sponsored by the Pacific Science Board of the National Research Council. In addition to making extensive collections of marine invertebrates, which are indispensable to a thorough analysis of biological zonation patterns and the determination of zoogeographical relationships, Mr. Bayer compiled considerable information on biological associations at all levels from commensalism to parasitism. The role played by alcyonarian corals in reef formation was also investigated in order to compare it with corresponding conditions elsewhere. Of possibly more immediate practical importance was a survey of the utilization of invertebrate resources by the native population. The field aspects of the survey were completed on November 13, 1953, after a period of approximately 2 months spent on the atoll. Following the survey, Mr. Bayer spent about 7 weeks in Japan

<<<Page: 52>>>

visiting museums, universities, and marine laboratories to study octocorallian material in those institutions and to survey the status of Japanese research in this field. During this visit, Mr. Bayer was granted an interview with the Emperor and arranged to work up some of the collections in the Biological Laboratory of the Imperial Household.
C. R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, virtually completed three studies: Notes on amphipods from the North Pacific and Arctic Oceans; the amphipods of Chesapeake Bay; and an extensive report on the amphipods of Point Barrow, Alaska.
Mrs. M. 8. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea, nearly finished her manuscript on the calanoid copepods for the revised edition of “Fresh-Water Biology” and started an intensive study of the fresh-water harpacticoid copepods of western North America. With Dr. P. L. lg, she completed a manuscript on the family Clausiidae, an inadequately known and misinterpreted group of cyclopoid copepod parasites of annelids. Mrs. Wilson also found time to deliver two lectures, one on problems encountered in a zoogeographic study of fresh-water copepods, before the Fourth Alaskan Science Conference, October 1953, and the other on the taxonomy and distribution of fresh-water copepods, before the University of Washington School of Fisheries, February 1954.
Austin H. Clark, associate in zoology, continued his studies, undertaken at the request of the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leyden, on the Ophiuroidea collected by the Snellius Expedition. His review of the echinoderm fauna of the Pacific Islands has also progressed.
During the year 32 specialists in other institutions undertook to identify material of the various groups of invertebrates for which the Museum is financially unable to support specialists. Of the 61 shipments, involving more than 1,840 specimens, sent to these unofficial collaborators during the year, 28, covering more than 574 specimens, have already been returned. The specialists rendering this gratuitous service and the groups upon which they work are:
Dr. Albert H. Banner: Snapping; Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann: Holothurishrimps. ans. Dr. A. Weir Bell: Oligochaete worms.}| Dr. Ralph W. Dexter: Branchiopod Mrs. Norman G. Benson: Fresh-water crustaceans. sponges. Dr. Walter K. Fisher: Sipunculid
Dr. Thomas E. Bowman: Amphipod crustaceans.
Dr. T. H. Bullock: Enteropneust worms.
Mrs. G. C. Carl: Cumacean crustaceans.
Dr. David Causey: Oligochaete worms.
Dr. Wesley R. Coe: Nemertean worms.
Mr. I. E. Cornwall: Barnacles.
317706—54——_4
worms and hydrocorals. Dr. G. E. Gates: Earthworms. Dr. Clarence J. Goodnight: Oligochaete worms. Dr. Olga Hartman: Polychaete worms. Dr. Williard D. Hartman: Sponges. Dr. Dora P. Henry: Barnacles.

<<<Page: 53>>>

Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.: Crayfishes.
Dr. L. B. Holthuis: Decapod crustaceans.
Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms.
Dr. Paul L. Illg: Copepod crustaceans.
Dr. J. G. Mackin: Isopod crustaceans.
Dr. N. T. Mattox: Branchiopod crustaceans.
Dr. Robert J. Menzies: Isopod crustaceans.
Dr. Marvin C. Meyer: Leeches.
Dr. Milton A. Miller: Isopod crustaceans.
Dr. Raymond C. Osburn: Bryozoans.
Dr. Marian H. Pettibone: Polychaete Worms.
Dr. Mary D. Rogick: Bryozoans.
Dr. Mary Sears: Siphonophores.
Dr. Willis L. Tressler: Ostracod crustaceans.
Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson: Copepod crustaceans.
Mollusks.—Dr. Warald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, made further progress with his revision of the superfamily Pyramidellacea for the “Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology” and a study of the rare deepwater genus Turcicula.
Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate curator, continued his studies cn the families Hydrobiidae, Ellobiidae, Cyclophoridae, and Amphicyclotidae of America, and on the Conidae of Bikini.
R. Tucker Abbott, associate curator, continued his studies on certain pelagic snails of the Gulf of Mexico, and on the Synceridae of the western Pacific. His “American Seashells” was published during the year in the Van Nostrand New Illustrated Naturalist series.
Dr. Paul Bartsch, associate in mollusks, completed his report on the Pyramidellidae of the Pliocene of North St. Petersburg, Fla., and submitted the manuscript for publication.
Research by visiting investigators.—In addition to investigations from government agencies located in the Washington area, more than 273 professional biologists and students with an interest in systematic biology paid one or more visits to the offices and laboratories of the department, some staying for a considerable time. Among the foreign visitors were the following:
Salim Ali, Bombay, India: Indian birds.
Miss Helen Rost, Tromsg Museum, Troms¢, Norway: Marine fishes (family Gempylidae).
Miss Mary Samuel, Central Fisheries Research Station, India: Elasmobranch fishes.
Dr. R. G. Fennah, Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture of Trinidad: Fulgoroidea.
Miss Ailsa M. Clark, British Museum (Natural History), London, England: Asteroidea.
Dr. T. Soot-Ryen, Troms¢ Museum, Troms¢, Norway: Marine mollusks of Chile, and various pelecypod groups.
Dr. Jay G. Marks, Creole Petroleum Corporation, Caracas, Venezuela: Marine
, mollusks of Venezuela.
Donald F. McMichael, Australian Museum, Sydney, New South Wales; Fresh_water mussels (Mutelidae) of Australia,

<<<Page: 54>>>

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Al
Botany
Phanerogams.—Dr. A. C. Smith, curator, pursued field studies in Fiji, with the aid of a grant from the National Science Foundation. Arriving in Suva on March 29, 1953, Dr. Smith carried out his plans by visiting various parts of the islands of Viti Levu, Ovalau, Ngau, and Taveuni. Historic type localities were visited, but most areas explored had not been previously botanized. The total number of herbarium specimens obtained was 24,158, representing 2,700 different numbers. In addition, many photographs were taken, samples for morphological and genetic study were prepared in liquid, 279 supporting wood samples were taken, and zoological material representing mammals, insects, fresh-water snails, and prawns was collected. The major geographical objectives were reached, and it is expected that the botanical material, which is now in the Museum, when added to that of Dr. Smith’s two earlier Fijian trips will permit him to proceed with the preparation of a definitive Flora. He left Suva on January 7, 1954, and returned to Washington on January 30, stopping en route at various institutions.
Dr. Lyman B. Smith, associate curator, continued work on separate accounts of the Bromeliaceae of Colombia and Bolivia. He completed his study of the 570 species representing this family in Brazil, undertaken in collaboration with the Rockefeller Foundation and the Servico Nacional de Malaria. He also collaborated with Dr. Bernice G. Schubert in the location, collection, and identification of plant material for analysis by the National Heart Institute.
Associate Curator E. H. Walker submitted for publication several papers dealing with the vegetation, botanical literature, and the Myrsinaceae of the Ryukyu Islands. He is continuing his studies of Ryukyu plants as new material is received. Progress was made in his studies of the Myrsinaceae of the Philippine Islands, and in his revision of the genus Corylopsis. He attended the Eighth Pacific Science Congress in Manila, making collections of herbarium material on Luzon Island in the Philippines, and in Hawaii, Johnston Island, Guam, and Okinawa en route. Collections made on Okinawa will supplement those obtained by him in 1951.
Associate Curator E. C. Leonard is concluding his work on Part III of the Colombian Acanthaceae. Study of 126 species of this part has been completed and comparatively few remain. In addition, he has made progress on his study of the Acanthaceae of Argentina by work on the genus Ruellia, has worked on Cyperus for his proposed Hispaniola Flora, and has collaborated with Dr. H. A. Allard in a continuing study of the plants of the Potomac-Virginia Triassic region.

<<<Page: 55>>>

Dr. Velva E. Rudd, assistant curator, completed and submitted for publication a review of the leguminous genus Centrolobiwm, and progressed with her revision of the subtribe Aeschynomeninae, of the same family. An invitation paper on the contribution of Lewis and Clark to botany is being prepared at the request of the Washington Academy of Sciences. In June 1953 she made a small but general collection of plants in the northwestern portion of New York State, while participating in the field meetings of the Northeastern Section of the Botanical Society of America.
Mr. E. P. Killip, research associate, continued his collecting in Florida and Cuba on behalf of the Museum, devoting particular attention to phanerogams.
Grasses.—Curator Jason R. Swallen continued his research on the grasses of southern Brazil. The work accomplished consisted primarily of the identification of his collections made several years ago.
Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator, published two papers, one on the monotypic genus Chaboissaea of México and the other on the floral morphology of four species of Setaria. He spent four weeks in the States of Tlaxcala and Michoacan, México, studying and collecting grasses in connection with his long-term project on the grasses of México. Nearly 1,200 specimens were collected, including many extending the known ranges, several rare species, and some new to science.
Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, began the important task of editing and verifying the entries in the grass species index prior to having a duplicate index prepared. This index, started over 60 years ago and containing approximately 80,000 entries, is the only one of its kind in the world. In addition, she continued her bibliographic work on the grass genera of the world, as well as her studies on the genus Paspalum of Brazil.
Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, spent several weeks in Latin America in connection with his experimental work on the cultivation of bamboos. He attended the Eighth Pacific Science Congress in Manila, and assisted in starting a bamboo garden there. He also visited Hong Kong, Indochina, and Pakistan. In the latter countries he acted as consultant in connection with bamboos used in the manufacture of paper.
Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton continued his work on the ferns of Central America, and on other manuscripts, in preparation for a trip to Europe. He spent the last three months of the year in Europe, as a fellow of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, studying fern specimens and photographing fern types in various herbaria. This work will materially advance the preparation of the contemplated fern floras of Honduras and Guatemala and render them more accurate and definitive.

<<<Page: 56>>>

As a member of the International Committee for the Nomenclature of Phanerogamae and Pteridophyta, he spent some time in work on conserved names. A number of short papers were written for publication in the American Fern Journal, and a general acvount of ferns and fern-allies was written for the Encyclopedia Americana. He also completed a treatment of the family Gesnerlaceae of Trinidad and Tobago for publication in a flora of this area.
In August and September, Mr. Morton participated in the summer field trips of the American Fern Society in New York, Quebec, and Michigan, and attended the annual meetings of the American Institute of Biological Sciences at Madison, Wis.
Cry ptogams.—Paul Conger, associate curator, completed his studies on a new genus and species of plankton diatom from the Florida Straits. The manuscript is in the course of publication in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. He continued his research on the diatom flora and ecology of Chincoteague Bay, Md., and began work on a revision of the genus Grammatophora. He presented three papers at the meetings of the American Institute of Biological Sciences: “Unique Features of the Diatom Ecology of Chincoteague Bay, Maryland,” before the American Society of Limnology and Oceanography ; and “Diatoms as Tracer Material in Criminological Technique: An Instance of Applied Phycology,” and “Representative Types of Diatom Teratology, and their Interpretation,” before the Phycological Society of America. Two manuscripts on diatoms were critically reviewed, and the article on diatoms in the Encyclopedia Americana was completely revised and rewritten on request of the editor.
Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. Alicia Lourteig, of the Fundacién Miguel Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina, after spending several months studying the phanerogam collections, completed her work and left at the end of July 1953. Dr. Kittie F. Parker, formerly of the Dniversity of Arizona and now resident in the Washington area, is actively engaged in research based on the Museum’s collections of Compositae. Mr. George Black, of the Instituto Agronémico do Norte, Belém, Brazil, continued his research work on the revision of the genus Avonopus. He left for Brazil in May, expecting to return in the fall of 1955 to complete his studies. Ali al-Rawi, Ministry of Agriculture, Iraq, and Rama Rao Panjee, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, India, Point-IV trainees, spent short periods at the herbarium as part of their training program in grass taxonomy. About 600 persons visited the department, including a number from foreign countries. The collections continue to be consulted by staff members of other Government agencies, including the Department of Agriculture, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Geological Survey. Sixteen informal loans totaling 642 specimens were made to the Department of Agriculture and the National Geographic Society.

<<<Page: 57>>>

Geology
Mineralogy and peirology.—A study of the mineralogical nature of Meso-American archeological jades by the curator, W. F. Foshag, undertaken in cooperation with the Instituto de Antropologia e Historia of Guatemala was completed and the report prepared for publication. It was found that three types of jade minerals were used extensively by the indigenous cultures of Guatemala—jadeite, diopsidejadeite, and chloromelanite, and that the use of jade reaches back into the earliest known cultures of the region. The first discovery of a natural occurrence of jadeite in Guatemala led to further investigations of this interesting subject. The occurrence of jadeite in MesoAmerica is of great interest to the archeologist.
With the completion of the history and development of Paricutin Volcano, attention is now being given to the petrology and chemistry of its lavas. Results of the chemical studies show a remarkable change in the composition of the lavas.
Dr. Foshag received the Roebling Medal of the Mineralogical Society of America. He continued, during the year, as president of the Section of Volcanology of the American Geophysical Union.
Associate Curator E. P. Henderson, in collaboration with Associate in Mineralogy S. H. Perry, completed a study of the relationship of the density of meteoric irons to chemical composition; the study showed that it is possible to calculate density from chemical composition, and by this means evaluate the reliability of old analyses. During the year Mr. Henderson acted as councilor of the Meteoritical Society and as a member of the advisory committee for the Bibliography on Meteorites, a monumental work published by the University of Chicago.
Associate Curator George Switzer prepared his annual review of the diamond industry and the gem stone chapter of the Minerals Yearbook of the U. S. Bureau of Mines. These annual reviews are considered authoritative summaries that prove useful to various government agencies and the trade. He also completed studies on ordofiezite, a new zinc antimonate from México; on mosesite, a new type of mineral compound, also from México; and on two rare and imperfectly known beryllium minerals, bavenite and bityite. In connection with a report or uranium minerals, in preparation for the U. S. Geological Survey, he undertook a short field trip to Colorado and Utah to observe certain features of the Colorado Plateau uranium province. During the year he continued as consultant mineralogist for the U. S. Bureau of Mines.
Dr. John P. Marble, associate in mineralogy, continued his investigations on the absolute measurement of geologic time. As chairman of the Committee on the Measurement of Geologic Time, of the Na

<<<Page: 58>>>

tional Research Council, he prepared the annual report of the committee. This valuable annual summary on the advances in geochronology also contains a comprehensive annotated bibliography.
Dr. Marble acted as general secretary, as well as chairman of the editorial and publication committee, of the American Geophysical Union.
Vertebrate paleontology.—Curator C. L. Gazin has been engaged in the study of the upper Eocene artiodactyls, or even-toed ungulates, of North America. During upper Hocene time several of the more modern families of artiodactyls became differentiated from earlier, more primitive stock. This investigation will include a review and revision involving all known forms. Much of this study will be based on the excellent collections secured by the curator in 1938.
Collections from a newly discovered locality for middle and early upper Paleocene mammals in the Bison Basin in south-central Wyoming are also under study. A number of new species are included in the collection.
Dr. Gazin, assisted by Mr. Franklin L. Pearce, carried on field work in various known Paleocene and Eocene localities in central and southwestern Wyoming. Particular success was achieved in the Paleocene beds in the Bison Basin, in the late Wasatchian and lower Eocene of the Washakie Basin, and in the Green River Basin. The discovery of Paleocene mammals in the Fossil Basin, near Fossil Station, Wyo., jends impetus to further collecting in this area during the coming field season.
Prior to the close of the fiscal year, the curator, again accompanied by Mr. Pearce, left for a short field season of collecting in Paleocene and lower Eocene occurrences in Wyoming.
At the close of the past field season, the curator attended a field conference of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology, held in the Uinta Basin of northeastern Utah, after which he conducted an excursion to the Dragon Paleocene exposures in the Wasatch Plateau of central Utah.
In connection with his studies on upper Eocene artiodactyls, Dr. Gazin visited the collections at Princeton, Yale, and Harvard Universities, and the American Museum of Natural History. He acted as chairman of the Eocene subcommittee of the committee preparing a new “Nomenclature and Correlation of the North American Tertiary.”
The research program of Associate Curator David Dunkle includes a study of the fossil fish fauna of the Green River formation undertaken in collaboration with Dr. Bobb Schaeffer, of the American Museum of Natural History. Because of the large series of complete and beautifully preserved specimens available, this fauna is well suited not

<<<Page: 59>>>

only for morphological studies but ecological analyses as well. Perhaps the greatest gap in the entire field of vertebrate paleontology is the late Mesozoic development of holostean ray-finned fishes into the descendent Tertiary Teleostei. This is the second long-range project to engage Dr. Dunkle’s attention.
A study of a unique paleoniscoid fish from Lower Permian strata of Sad Paulo, Brazil, was completed, and new occurrences of PermoCarboniferous fishes from various occurrences in the same country were recorded. The study of an embolomerous amphibian skull received from the Ohio Geological Survey is also under way.
Two visits to the American Museum of Natural History were made by Dr. Dunkle in connection with his studies on late Paleozoic fishes, and he represented the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology in the Division of Geology and Geography of the National Research Council.
Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Curator G. A. Cooper submitted for publication his monographic study on Chazyan and related brachiopods, in which are described 150 genera and 925 species of these animals. A new work, carried forward in collaboration with Dr. H. M. Muir-Wood of the British Museum, is a generic revision of the productid brachiopods, in which descriptions of about 150 genera and 127 plates were prepared. In addition, 2 new genera and 6 species of brachiopods from Cuba, and 9 new genera and 6 new species of other brachiopods were described.
Dr. Cooper engaged in several field explorations during the year. Early in the fiscal year, accompanied by William Allen, aide, and F. G. Stehli, California Institute of Technology, he collected silicified Permian fossils in West Texas, as well as other material at Carlsbad, N. Mex., and in Oklahoma. In October, with Dr. Muir-Wood, he visited rich collecting grounds at Alpena, Mich., Thedford, Ontario, and other localities.
Associate Curator A. R. Loeblich, Jr., working in collaboration with Helen Tappan Loeblich, continued his studies on a revision of the genera of Foraminifera, basing his examinations upon types in European museums. Four months were spent at the British Museum and two at the Bureau des Recherches Géologiques et Géophysiques, Paris.
During his sojourn in Europe, Dr. Loeblich collected topotypes of Foraminifera at classic localities in England, Scotland, France, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Germany and Austria. About 12 tons of foraminiferal samples were collected during these explorations.
Various pelecypod genera occupied the interest of Associate Curator David Nicol. He has completed morphological and ecological studies on the genera Astartella and Conocardium.
In October Dr. Nicol was detailed to collect Cretaceous fossils exposed in excavations for the Lake Whitney Dam, Tex., where many fine specimens, especially of the smaller pelecypods, were obtained.

<<<Page: 60>>>

The generic revision of the Bryozoa, both fossil and Recent, prepared by Research Associate R. S. Bassler, was published during the year as a part of the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology.” Several thousand genera are characterized and illustrated.
Dr. Bassler is now bringing to completion his monograph on Ordovician cystids, a complicated group of echinoderms, based largely upon the Springer collection, of the U. S. National Museum.
Research Associate J. Brookes Knight, assisted by Ellis Yochelson, U.S. Geological Survey, and Roger Batten, Columbia University, devoted his time to a compilation and characterization of the genera of Paleozoic gastropods for the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology.”
Research by outside investigators.—Materials for research purposes were furnished by the division of mineralogy and petrology to Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation, Army Engineers, Columbia University, General Electric Company, Geophysical Laboratory, Gulf Research and Development Company, Harvard University (2), Institute for Nuclear Physics, Johns Hopkins University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (3), Museu Nacional Quinta da Boa Vista (Brazil), Naval Gun Factory, New York University (2), Outokumpu Oy (Finland), Pennsylvania State College (4), Portland Cement Association, Shell Development Company (2), U. S. Geological Survey (22), Université de Montpellier (France), University of Chicago (8), University of Helsinki (Finland), University of Illinois, University of Paris (France), and Yale University.
Nine papers in mineralogical literature, published by outside investigators, were based wholly or in part on materials furnished by the U. S. National Museum.
As in the past, investigators outside the government have assisted the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany with descriptions of fossils, and have themselves received much help from the staff and collections. Some of these investigators have been working with the division for several years, including: Dr. T. W. Amsden, Johns Hopkins University, is studying a collection of Silurian (St. Clair) brachiopods from Arkansas; Dr. Franco Rasetti of the same university continued his studies of Cambrian fossils and is a frequent visitor to the laboratories; Dr. Norman D. Newell, American Museum of Natural History, is monographing a large collection of silicified Permian pelecypods from West Texas belonging to the National Museum; Dr. Harry B. Whittington, Harvard University, completed (with Dr. William Evitt of Rochester University) a study of Virginia silicified trilobites and is now busy with studies of other family groups represented in the same materials; Drs. John Hoskins of Cincinnati University and Auriel T. Cross of the West Virginia Geological Survey completed their studies of a large collection of

<<<Page: 61>>>

Lower Mississippian plants from Kentucky ; Mr. Roger Batten, graduate student of Columbia University, is collaborating with Dr. Knight on Permian gastropod studies. Dr. Francis G. Stehli, California Institute of Technology, is collaborating with Dr. Cooper on some Permian brachiopod studies.
Dr. G. E. Lewis of the Denver office of the U. S. Geological Survey examined and made comparisons with materials in the Miocene and Pliocene collections of the division of vertebrate paleontofogy as they applied to his studies of middle and later Tertiary mammals of the Mohave Desert region in California. He was also particularly interested in Coconino footprints from the Grand Canyon region. Dr. J. R. Macdonald of the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology made a detailed study of leptochoerid and bothriodont artiodactyls from the White River Oligocene as part of a study of all the known anthracotheres. Dr. M. Maldonado-Koerdell of Petréleos Mexicanos came to Washington twice during the year to study Mexican fossil fish and also Pleistocene antilocaprid materials. Mr. S. B. McDowell of the American Museum of Natural History examined Paleocene insectivore specimens in connection with a study he is making of the genus Myrmecoboides. Mr. J. H. Quinn of the University of Texas reviewed the various equid materials in the Museum’s Miocene and Pliocene collections. Mr. Quinn is making a detailed revision of the middle and later Tertiary horses. Dr. Fuiji Takai of the University of Tokyo visited the National Museum for the purpose of studying fossil marine sirenians, particularly the genus Desmostylus which is so well represented in the Miocene of Japan. Mr. H. H. Winters of the Florida Geological Survey made two trips to Washington to study Florida fossil mammal materials and to review certain Pleistocene forms. Part of his studies pertain to the fauna of the Pleistocene Manix beds in California.
Engineering and Industries
Crafis and industries.—Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator, submitted the manuscript of her history of the sewing machine. Miss Rogers completed her examination of all published material on the Scholfield wool-carding machine, and is searching, through living descendents of the Scholfield brothers, for original records of the machine. Miss Rogers made 102 short studies on the textile collections to answer requests from outside investigators.
Edward C. Kendall’s investigation of the European origins of seventeenthand eighteenth-century American plow types was furthered by a grant from Deere and Company which enabled him to attend the International Conference for Research of Ploughing Im

<<<Page: 62>>>

plements at Copenhagen and to visit institutions with agricultural, industrial, and technical collections in various European countries. One objective of his trip is information that will assist in reconstructing the types of plows in use at Mount Vernon in Washington’s time. Mr. Kendall’s examination of the 1938 John Deere steel plow showed that the drawings and reconstruction of the original Deere steel plow based on this specimen were incorect. Sketches were made showing its probable original appearance.
Upon request of The Henry Francis Du Pont Winterthur Museum, W. N. Watkins conducted a one-day seminar there for a group studying the woods used in old American furniture. The identification of woods is of great importance in this study. Practical use of the microscope in wood anatomy was demonstrated, and a grounding in the use of dichotomous and other keys for separation of genera and species was given. Mr. Watkins continued his assistance to Colonial Williamsburg, the Charleston Museum, Mount Vernon, and others with similar problems of wood identification.
Engineering.—Smith H. Oliver, associate curator of land transportation, conducted research on early locomotives in America for the preparation of a bulletin tentatively titled, “The Remaining Relics of the First Quarter-Century of Steam Locomotives in America.”
Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator of electricity, continued research towards the preparation of a catalog of electrical measuring instruments. This project has been complicated by the acquisition of a large addition to the collection of instruments. The identification and cataloging of this material has been a major activity this year.
Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, associate curator of engineering, is engaged in the preparation of a descriptive account of the history of the development of power machinery, to be used in connection with a proposed reconstruction of the power exhibits along historical lines.
Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen continued research on the origins and development of photomechanical halftone processes including letterpress, halftone, photogravure, photolithography, collotype, and others. This work will establish a basis for dating early published halftones and will provide a single reference work for the diverse and complicated history of halftone printing. It will also extend the usefulness of the Museum’s collection of early halftones, probably the best extant. Preliminary studies tracing the history of the halftone screen and sketching the history of letterpress halftone printing were completed.
He completed a long article, “The Development of Four-Color Printing,” to be published as an illustrated brochure by Rous and Mann Press, Ltd., Toronto, Canada.

<<<Page: 63>>>

His study of the color prints of John Baptist Jackson, begun several years ago, will trace the origins of color printing in the eighteenth century and will emphasize Jackson’s importance as an artist and pioneer color printer.
Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator, continued his “History of the Camera.” When completed, this history will be a source of reference for students, patent attorneys, inventors, and others interested in tracing the development of the camera.
Medicine and public health.—Research has been carried on by George Griffenhagen, associate curator of medicine and public health, on the history and evolution of pharmaceutical equipment such as the pill machine, mortar and pestle, pharmaceutical balance, and drug container. The results of these studies will form part of a descriptive catalog of the collections.
Additional work was done on the compilation of a catalog of apothecary shop restorations which are on exhibition in the United States. Parts of this catalog have appeared monthly for the past 15 rionths in the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association, Practical Pharmacy Edition, of which Mr. Griffenhagen was appointed editorial staff associate. A Smithsonian Information Leaflet listing those restorations reported to June 1, 1953, was prepared and over 150 copies were distributed upon request.
Mr. Griffenhagen was elected chairman of the section on historical pharmacy of the American Pharmaceutical Association. During the year he delivered addresses on the history of antibiotics, on early pharmacy in America, and on the work of the division of medicine and public health.
Research by outside investigators.—The variety of the interests of the hundreds of inquirers who were aided in their studies is indicated by the following examples:
Dr. Salahuddin Ahmad, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Punjab, Pakistan, obtained aid in ie investigation of the use of sulphuric acid in the treatment of pines in naval stores operations.
Harold L. Peterson, National Park Service, was assisted in his study of the stocks of firearms used in America during the colonial and Revolutionary War periods.
R. E. Cottrell was aided in his study of the coloration of woods under ultraviolet light.
Thomas Morley, University of Minnesota, received eight authentic wood samples of two genera of the Melastomaceae to further his study of that family.
Gordon K. Saltar, The Henry Francis Du Pont Winterthur Musuem, received eight authentic wood samples for his investigation of the specific identification of the southern yellow pines.

<<<Page: 64>>>

Mildred Davison, Associate Curator of Textiles, Art Institute of Chicago, spent three days in the Museum studying fabrics, quilts, and coverlets. Four sample books from the Hamilton Print Works were lent to her for further study.
Cis Fink, Danish weaver and textile expert, spent two days studying the textile collections.
Irene Lagorio, Curator of the Aschenbach Foundation of the Palace of the Legion of Honor, San Francisco, made an extensive study of our exhibits and collections. The Aschenbach Foundation is a newly established institution devoted to the graphic arts.
Harold 8S. Anderson, Curator of the Thomas A. Edison Foundation, West Orange, N. J., studied the Edison material in the motion picture collection and Josephine Cobb, National Archives, studied the collection of Brady photographs.
The Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Medical Museum was aided in the preparation of an exhibit on the history of tuberculosis, and the Army Medical Library received aid on an exhibit on medicine in the time of Queen Elizabeth I.
Dr. George R. Thompson, Office of the Chief Signal Officer, examined and borrowed the Beardslee military telegraph instrument. Dr. A. E. Douglass inquired for records of a sequoia trunk hut. Ralph Lewis, National Park Service, sought references to vessels engaged in the Battle of Lake Erie. The American Society of Refrigeration Engineers requested help in preparing an historical exhibit. Jacob Vaage, curator of Skimuseet, Oslo, Norway, examined skiis in the collection. Howard I. Chapelle, marine historian, consulted the collections and files. George W. Bailey, Executive Secretary, The Institute of Radio Engineers, sought advice on a working arrangement for preserving significant relics of the radio pioneers. Sixteen catalogs of the Historic American Merchant Marine Survey were furnished to inquirers and 150 blueprints were ordered from the Survey, bringing the total of prints distributed to 6,532.
History
Acting Head Curator Mendel L. Peterson completed a manuscript on the history of the frigate Looe; and he continued the project on the study of ornamentation and marking of muzzle-loading cannon, photographing specimens at West Point, Charleston, S. C., Yorktown, Va., and the Mariners Museum, Newport News, Va. A booklet, “History Under the Sea,” was prepared in connection with the special exhibition of marine archeology.
Associate Curator of Civil History Margaret W. Brown continued research on the collection of Washington relics in the U. S. National

<<<Page: 65>>>

Museum. Her work resulted in publication of an article on the “Washington Gold Funeral Medal” in the February 1954 issue of The Numismatist.
Associate Curator of Numismatics Stuart Mosher continued his research on a biographical dictionary of American medalists and on the life and works of Edward Stabler, early American die engraver. He also worked on a catalog of the Hugh Miller collection of Korean charms and amulets, and on a catalog of multiple thalers in the Paul A. Straub collection.
Associate Curator of Philately Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., continued his research on a number of projects, among which were: original subjects as used for postage stamps; the philatelic directory, a reference work; the postal history and postage stamps of Germany; Liberian postal history and postage stamps; Nicaraguan stamp plates; United States commemoratives, 1945-1955, a companion volume to the completed guide to the 1900-1945 issues.
Research by outside investigators.—Outside investigators used the collections and libraries and were given assistance during the year.
Miss Elizabeth Andersch, Ohio University School of Dramatic Art, studied the costumes collection, gathering information on early nineteenth-century dress for a sesquicentennial play to be produced by the University this year.
Members of the staff of Colonial Williamsburg making extensive studies of various collections were Miss Katherine Shawer, of the Craft Shops, who studied eighteenth-century hats and bonnets; Mrs. Eleanor L. Duncan, assistant curator, who was especially interested in costumes and antiques; and Miss Margaret C. McMahon, library assistant, who examined pictorial material in the collections.
Mr. Harold L. Peterson made an extensive study of the United States military swords in preparing his book, “American Military Swords,” just published.
Mr. Walter B. Jones, Director of the Alabama Museum of Natural History, was assisted in the attribution and cataloging of a large number of Greek and Roman coins from the collections of that museum.

<<<Page: 66>>>

Publications
In addition to an Annual Report, the National Museum issued 14 publications based on research in the national collections. Of these, 1 was in the Bulletin series, 11 were in the Proceedings series, and 2 were Contributions from the National Herbarium. The titles of these publications are listed below.
At the close of the year one Proceedings paper and the following three Bulletins were in press: “List of North American Recent Mammals” by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., and Remington Kellogg; “Frogs of Southeastern Brazil” by Doris M. Cochran; and “American Moths of the Subfamily Phycitinae” by Carl Heinrich.
Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 136. These publications, listed on pages 55 to 59, were distributed as follows:
Department Publications Department Publications ANCHTOpPOlOS yee ee eee 1G.) Eistonyje son eee 2 Otani year tt he Tee SOY ZOOLOLY, a es oh ek 62 Engineering and Industries_______ 7 —Geolo ayer. see 19 poe Hatin ure ace De ti ee Sy 136
Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1953 through June 1954
The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 1958. 8vo, vii + 97 pp. January 12, 1954.
Bulletin 202. Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands, by Leonard P. Schultz and collaborators. 8vo, xxxii + 685 pp., 90 figs., 74 pls. December 15, 19538.

<<<Page: 67>>>

From VOLUME 29, CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM
Part 11. Studies in the Bromeliaceae, XVII, by Lyman B. Smith, 8vo, pp. i-vi-+521-543, figs. 77-94. February 19, 1954.
From VOLUME 31, CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STates NATIONAL HERBARIUM
Part 2. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, II, by Emery C. Leonard, 8yvo, i—viii-119-322 pp., figs. 41-118. November 10, 1953.
FWRomM VOLUME 100 OF THE PROCEEDINGS
Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i—viii, 553-584. March 23, 1954.
FRoM VOLUME 101 oF THE PROCEEDINGS
Title page, table of contents, list of illustrations, and index. Pp. i-ix, 611-639. March 23, 1954.
From VoLumME 103 of THE PROCEEDINGS
No. 3323. Review of the Indo-Pacific anemone fishes, genus Amphiprion, with descriptions of two new species, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 187-201, pls. 9, 10. July 3, 1953.
No. 3324. Marine polychaete worms from Point Barrow, Alaska, with additional records from the North Atlantic and North Pacific, by Marian H. Pettibone. Pp. 203-356, figs. 26-39. May 21, 1954.
No. 3325. The relationships of Old and New World melanians, by J. P. EH. Morrison. Pp. 357-394, pl. 11. April 20, 1954.
No. 3326. Preliminary analysis of the fossil vertebrates of the Canyon Ferry Reservoir area, by Theodore EH. White. Pp. 395-488, figs. 40-51. May 28, 1954.
No. 3327. A review of the labrid fish genus Wetmorella with descriptions of new forms from the tropical Indo-Pacific, by Leonard P. Schultz and N. B. Marshall. Pp. 489-447, figs. 52-54, pl. 12. April 21, 1954.
No. 3328. Review of the Atlantic periwinkles, Nodilittorina, Echininus, and Tectarius, by R. Tucker Abbott. Pp. 449-464, figs. 55-57. March 23, 1954.
No. 3329. Mammals of northern Colombia, preliminary report No. 7: Tapirs (genus Tapirus), with a systematic review of American species, by Philip Hershkovitz. Pp. 465-496, figs. 58-62. May 18, 1954.
No. 3830. A revision of the goatfish genus Upeneus with descriptions of two new species, by Ernest A. Lachner. Pp. 497-582, pls. 18, 14. May 18, 1954.
No. 3331. Studies in neotropical Mallophaga, XI: Bird lice of the suborder Amblycera, genus Dennyus Neumann, by M. A. Carriker, Jr. Pp. 533-549, figs. 63, 64. May 21, 1954.
No. 3332. Nearctic flies of the family Periscelidae (Diptera) and certain Anthomyzidae referred to the family, by A. H. Sturtevant. Pp. 551-562. June 16, 1954.
No. 8838. North American triclad Turbellaria, XIII: Three new cave planarians, by Libbie H. Hyman. Pp. 563-573, figs. 65-68. June 14, 1954.

<<<Page: 68>>>

Publications by Members of the Staff of the United States National Museum
July 1953 through June 1954
Abbott, R. Tucker. How to collect shells. Nat. Hist. (New York), vol. 63, No. 1, pp. 32-37, illus., January 1954.
——. Medically important molluscs. In Mackie, Hunter, and Worth, A manual of tropical medicine, pp. 625640, figs. 278-282, January 1954.
——. The habits and occurrence of the nudibranch Armina tigrina, in the southeast United States. Nautilus, vol. 67, No. 3, pp. 88-86, February 1954.
Review of the Atlantic peri
winkles, Nodilittorina, Hchininus, and
Tectarius. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.
103, pp. 449-464, figs. 55-57, 1954.
American seashells, xiv-+-541 pp.,
100 figs., 40 pls., 1954.
(See also under Warmke, Germaine L.)
Allen, William T. David)
Bartsch, Paul. A new Niso from American waters. Nautilus, vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 38-40, pl. 5, fig. 4, October 1953.
A new rissoid mollusk from Maryland. Nautilus, vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 40-41, pl. 5, fig. 5, October 1953.
Bassler, R.S. Treatise of invertebrate paleontology, pt. G (Bryozoa), xiii+253 pp., 1953.
Bayer, Frederick M. Zoogeography and evolution in the octocorallian family Gorgoniidae. Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 3, pp. 100— 119, figs. 1-5, 19538.
Brown, Margaret W. Washington gold funeral medal in the collections of the U. S. National Museum. Numismatist, vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 114-122, 8 figs., February 1954.
Bruns, Franklin R., Jr. commemorative 1954.
Carriker, M. A., Jr. Studies in Neotropical Mallophaga. XII. Pt. 1, Lice of the tinamous. Rev. Brasileira Biol., vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 209-224, illus., October 1953.
317706—54——_5,
(See under Nicol,
United States notes, 1900-1945.
Carriker, M. A., Jr. Studies in Neotropical Mallophaga. XII. Pt. 2, Lice of the tinamous. Rev. Brasileira Biol., vol. 13, No. 4, pp. 325-346, illus., December 1953.
Neotropical miscellany. VI.
New genus and species of Mallophaga.
Florida Ent., vol. 36, No. 4, pp. 151-
160, illus., December 1953.
. The Menoponidae of the Cracidae
and the genus Odontophorus (Neo-
tropical Mallophaga miscellany,
VIII). Novedades Colombianas, No.
1, pp. 19-81, illus., May 3, 1954.
Studies in Neotropical Mallophaga, XI: Bird lice of the suborder Amblycera, genus Dennyus Neumann. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 103, No. 3331, pp. 5383-549, figs. 63, 64, 1954.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr. Zoological results of a fifth expedition to East Africa. VI. Decapod Crustacea. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., vol. 110, pp. 427-443, figs. 1-4, 1953.
Clark, Austin H. The ecology, evolution, and distribution of the vertebrates. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1952, pp. 288-303, 1953.
—. Fauna of North America. In Encyclopaedia Hebraica, vol. 4, columns 238-244, illus., 1953. (In Hebrew.)
Fauna of Central America. In Eneyclopaedia Hebraica, vol. 4, columns 258-256, illus., 1953. (In Hebrew. )
Fauna of South America. En-
cyclopaedia Hebraica, vol. 4, columns 276-281, illus., 1953. (In Hebrew.) For and against the doctrine of prescription as applied to taxonomy; a historical retrospect. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, pp. 13-18, 1954.
(See also under Clark, Ailsa M.)
Clark, Ailsa M., and Clark, Austin H. A revision of the sea-stars of the genus Tethyaster. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 122, pp. 1-27, pls. 1-12, 1954.

<<<Page: 69>>>

Cooper, G. Arthur. Unusual Devonian brachiopods. Journ. Paleont., vol. 28, No. 3, pp. 325-8382, pls. 36, 37, 1954.
Deignan, H. G. Five new races of bulbuls (Pycnonotidae) from southern Asia. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, pp. 123-125, April 1954.
Dunkle, David H. Vertebrate paleontology. Jn Britannica Book of the Year, pp. 347-348, 1953.
and Maldonado-Koerdell, M.
Notes on some Mesozoic fish remains
from Mexico. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 10, pp. 311-317;
1953.
Evans, Clifford, Jr. gers, Betty J.) Ewers, John C. Literate fur trader, Edwin Thompson Denig. Montana Mag. Hist., vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 1-12,
Spring 1954.
Fisher, Walter K. A new genus of bonelliid worms (Hehiuroidea). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 43, pp. 258-259, 1 fig., 1953.
Foshag, W. F.; Murata, K. J.; and Fahey, J. J. Reexamination of mosesite. Amer. Mineral., vol. 38, pp. 1225-1234, 1952.
—. and Switzer George. The diamond industry in 1952. Jewelers’ Circular Keystone, vol. 123, 11 pp., 19583.
Friedmann, Herbert. Review of Bannerman’s “Birds of West and Equatorial Africa.” Auk, vol. 71, No. 1, pp.. 93-95, January 1954.
—. Review of Chapin’s “Birds of the Belgian Congo, pt. 3.” Auk, vol. 71, No. 2, p. 214, April 1954.
Review of Salomonsen’s “Fugletraekket og dets gader.” Auk, vol. 71, No. 2, pp. 214-215, April 1954.
—. Honey-guide: The bird that eats wax. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 105, No. 4, pp. 551-560, 8 pls., April 1954.
——. A revision of the classification of the honey-guides. Ann. Mus. Congo Turvuren Zool., vol. 50, pp. 21-27, 1954.
(See under Meg-
(See also under Wetmore, Alexander )
——. and Glenny, F. R. Reduction ot the clavicles in the Mesoenatidae, with some remarks concerning the relationship of the clavicles to flightfunction in birds. Ohio Journ. Sci. vol. 54, No. 2, pp. 111-113, March 195:
Gazin, C. Lewis. Activities of the Division of Vertebrate Paleontology of the U. 8. National Museum. Soc. Vert. Paleont. News Bull., No. 39, pp. 10-11, 1953; No. 40, pp. 12-18, 1954; No. 41, pp. 11-12, 1954.
Greene, Charles T. Larva and pupa of Thrypticus fraterculus (Wheeler) with new original notes on the habits
of the family Dolichopodidae (Diptera). Ent. News, vol. 65, No. 4, pp. 89-92, illus., April 1954.
Griffenhagen, George B. The scientific section of the American Pharmaceutical Association. Amer. Journ. Fee Education, vol. 17, pp. 342-350,
Early American pharmacies.
Journ. Amer. Pharm. Assoc. (Practi-
cal ed.), vol. 14, pp. 388, 454, 468, 660,
732, 752, figs. 1-12, June-August, Oc-
tober—December 1953; vol. 15, pp. 12,
124, 172, 245, 306, figs. 1-10, January—
May 1954.
The West’s first journal of medicine and pharmacy. Prescriber and Prescriptionist, vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 12-15, 1 fig., April 1954.
Handley, Charles O., Jr. Review of “Possums” by C. G. Hartman. Atlantie Naturalist, vol. 8, No. 5, p. 262, 19538.
A new flying squirrel from the
southern Appalachian Mountains.
Proce. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 66,
pp. 191-194, Dec. 2, 1953.
Phenacomys in Minnesota. Journ. Mamm., vol. 35, No. 2, p. 260, 1954.
——. Review of Rosevear’s “Checklist and Atlas of Nigerian Mammals.” Journ. Mamm., vol. 35, No. 2, pp. 269— 270, 1954.
—. Review of “Southern African Mammals 1758-1951” by Ellerman, Morrison-Scott, and Hayman. Science, vol. 119, No. 3101, p. 802, 1954.
Henderson, Edward P., and Perry, Stuart H. The Mayodan meteorite, Rockingham County, North Carolina. Amer. Mineral., vol. 38, pp. 1025— 1039, 1953.
Johnson, David H. A new marsupial of the genus Antechinus from northern Australia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 67, pp. 77-80, Mar. 22, 1954.
Lachner, Ernest A. Family Apogonidae. In Schultz, Leonard P., and Collaborators, The fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 202, vol. 1, pp. 412— 498, figs. 69-84, pls. 33B—438, 1953.
A revision of the goatfish genus Upeneus with descriptions of two new species. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. 103, pp. 497-532, pls. 13, 14, 1954.
Leapley, William T. First record of the ribbonfish, Trachipterus trachyurus, from the mainland of North America. Copeia, No. 4, p. 236, pl. 1, 1953.
Leonard, Emery C. Acanthaceae. In Schultes, Plantae Austro-Americanae, VIII. Bot. Mus. Leafl. Harvard Univ., vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 92-95, 1953.

<<<Page: 70>>>

Leonard, Emery C. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, II. Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb., vol. 31, pt. 2, pp. 119-822, figs. 41-118, 1953.
— Acanthaceae. Jn Steyermark, Contributions to the flora of Venezuela. Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No. 3, pp. 553-565, 1953.
Marble, John Putnam. Report on the Committee on the Measurement of Geologic Time, 1951-1952. National Research Council, 1953.
Meggers, Betty J., and Evans, Clifford, Jr. Uma interpretacaio das culturas da Ilha de Marajé. Publicagio n. 7, 1954, Instituto de Antropologia e Etnologia do Pard, Museum Goeldi, Belém, Para, Brasil, pp. 1-22.
Moore, J. Percy. Three undescribed North American leeches (Hirudinea). Notulae Naturae, No. 250, pp. 1-13, figs. 1, 2, pl. 1, 1958.
Morrison, Joseph P. E. Two new American species of Strobilops. Nautilus, vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 53-55, figs. 1-6, pl. 6, October 1953.
Viviparus multilineatus (Say) 1829, from Florida. Nautilus, vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 56-58, October 19538.
——. Hydrobia totteni, new name for Turbo minuta Totten, 1884 (Gastropoda: Hydrobiidae). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, No. 1, p. 26, January 1954.
Zoogeography, subfamilies and
families. Ann. Rep. Amer. Malacol.
Union, 1953, pp. 12-14, 1954.
Demonstration of the egg-masses
and eggs of Detracia floridana
(Pfeiffer ). Ann. Rep. Malacol.
Union, 1953, pp. 15-16, 1954.
. The relationships of Old and New World Melanians. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 103, pp. 357-394, pl. 11, 1954.
Morton, C. VY. A range extension in Cystopteris. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 43, No. 3, pp. 125, 126, 1953.
The eastern United States varieties of Hquisetum hyemale. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 48, No. 4, pp. 170-173, 1954.
—. Anew Thelypteris from Ecuador. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 43, No. 4, pp. 173-174, 1954.
A proposal to remove the name Nothoscordum from the list of Nomina Conservanda. Taxon, vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 21, 22, 1954.
——. Proposed amendment to Article 24 of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature. Taxon, vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 22, 23, 1954.
Two misinterpreted tropical
American ferns. Amer. Fern Journ.,
vol. 48, No. 4, pp. 174, 175, 1954.
Gesneriaceae. In Steyermark,
Contributions to the flora of Vene-
zuela. Wieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No. 3, pp. 520-534, 1953.
— and Neidorf, Charles. Dryopteris austriaca var. intermedia.
Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 44, No. 1, pp. 16-18, 1954.
Multhauf, Robert P. Medical chemistry and “The Paracelsians.” Bull. Hist. Med., vol. 28, No. 2, pp. 101-126, March-April 1954.
Newman, Marshall T. The Addicks Dam site. II. Indian skeletal remains from the Doering and Kobs sites, Addicks Reservoir, Texas. River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 4, in Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 154, pp. 253-266, figs. 24-28, 1953.
The human physical type and
cranial deformation. In Willey and
Corbett, Early Ancén and Early Supe
culture, pp. 143-144, 1954.
The application of ecological rules to the racial anthropology of the aboriginal New World. Amer. Anthr., vol. 55, No. 3, pp. 311-827, August 1953.
Nicol, David. Systematic position of the pelecypod Pliocardia. Journ. Paleont., vol. 27, No. 5, pp. 703-705, 7 figs., 1953.
Period of existence of some late
Cenozoic pelecypods. Journ.
Paleont., vol. 27, No. 5, pp. 706-707,
1953.
Review of the living species of Echinochama. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 11, pp. 386388, 5 figs., 1953.
The scientific role of the amateur malacologist. Nautilus, vol. 67, No. 2, pp. 41-44, 1953.
Trends and problems in pelecypod classification (the supergeneric categories). Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, No. 1, pp. 27-82, 1954.
Growth and decline of populations and the distribution of marine pelecypods. Journ. Paleont., vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 22-25, 2 figs., 1954.
——. Nomenclatural review of genera and subgenera of Cucullaeidae. Journ. Paleont., vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 96-101, 1954.
—— and Allen, William T. A new pelecypod genus from Upper Triassic strata in Peru. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 11, pp. 344-346, 4 figs., 1953.
Oliver, Smith Hempstone. The world’s best known Simplex. Motor Trend, vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 30-31, January 1954.
. The billion-dollar patent. Cars, vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 54-56, 78, March 1954.
Perry, Stuart H. (See under Henderson, Edward P.)

<<<Page: 71>>>

Schultz, Leonard P. Know your angelfishes. Tropical Fish Hobbyist, vol. 2, No. 4, pp. 4-5, fig., 1954.
and Axelrod, H.R. A comprehensive chart of the occurrence and treatment of diseases of tropical fishes. Tropical Fish Hobbyist, vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 22-25, 1954.
— and Collaborators: Herald, Earl S.; Lachner, Ernest A.; Welander, Arthur D.; and Woods, Loren P. Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands. U. S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 202, vol. 1, xxxii-+685 pp., 90 figs., 74 pls., 1953.
— and Marshall, N. B. A review of the labrid fish genus Wetmorella with descriptions of new forms from the tropical Indo-Pacific. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 103, pp. 489-447, figs. 52-54, pl. 12, 1954.
Setzer, Henry W. A new hedgehog from Africa. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 7, pp. 237-238, July 23, 1953.
Four new mammals from the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 43, No. 10, pp. 333-335, Oct. 22, 1953.
——. A new squirrel from the AngloEgyptian Sudan. Proc. Biol. Soe. Washington, vol. 67, pp. 87-88, Mar. 22, 1954.
Smith, A. C. Proposals for nomina generica conservanda. Taxon, vol. 2, No. 2, pp. 22-28, 1953.
Informe sobre el Séptimo Con-
greso Internacional de _ Botanica.
Rev. Argentina Agron., vol. 20, No. 1,
pp. 33-37, 1953.
Studies of South American
plants, XIII. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 48, pp. 203-212, 1953.
Studies of South American
plants, XIV. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol.
40, pp. 469-475, 1953.
Ericaceae. In Steyermark, Botanical exploration in Venezuela, III. Fieldiana: Bot., vol. 28, No. 3, pp. 449-454, 1958.
Smith, Lyman B. Notes on Bromeliaceae, I. Phytologia, vol. 4, No. 4, pp. 213-221, pls. 1, 2, 1953.
The subfamilies and genera of
Bromeliaceae. In Foster, Brome-
liads, a cultural handbook, pp. 9-11,
1953.
Notes on Bromeliaceae, II. Phytologia, vol. 4, No. 5, pp. 355-868, pls. 1-4, 1953.
Bromeliad malaria. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1952, pp. 385-398, pls. 1, 2, 1953.
——,. A new Aechmea from Venezuela. Bromeliad Soe. Bull., vol. 3, No. 5, p. 48, 1953.
Smith, Lyman B. Notes on Bromeliaceae, III. Phytologia, vol. 4, No. 6, pp. 378-384, pls. 1-3, 1953.
. New name for old error. Brome-
liad Soc. Bull., vol. 4, No. 1, p. 6, 1954.
Studies in the Bromeliaceae,
XVII. Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb., vol.
aad 11, pp. 521-542, figs. 77--94,
Bromeliaceae. In Schultes, Plantae Austro-Americanae, IX. Bot. Mus. Leafl. Harvard Univ., vol. 16, No. 8, pp. 192-198, pls. 25-28, 1954.
—— and Pittendrigh, Colin S. Realignments in the Bromeliaceae subfamily Tillandsioideae. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, pp. 401-404, 1953.
Snodgrass, R. E. The metamorphosis of a fly’s head. Smithsonian Misc. Col., vol. 122, No. 3, 25 pp., illus1953.
Insect metamorphosis. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 122, No. 9, 124 pp., illus., 1954.
Sohns, Ernest R. Chaboissaea ligulata Fourn.: A Mexican grass. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 438, pp. 405-407, figs. 1-16, 1953.
Setaria: Fascicle organization in four species. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, pp. 116-122, figs. 1-40, 1954.
Stewart, T. Dale. Research in human identification. Science, vol. 118, No. 3061, p. 3, Aug. 28, 1953.
——. The age incidence of neural arch defects in Alaskan natives considered from the standpoint of etiology. Journ. Bone Joint Surg., vol. 35—A, No. 4, pp. 937-950, October 1953.
——. An anthropologist looks at Lincoln. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1952, pp. 419-437, 1953.
Skeletal remains from Zaculeu, Guatemala. In The Ruins of Zaculeu, Guatemala, edited by R. B. Woodbury and A. S. Trik, vol. 1, pp. 295811, 1953.
——. Physical anthropology. In Handbook of Latin American Studies No. 16, pp. 41-46 (1950), Univ. Florida, 1953.
Amériques. In Catalogue des Hommes Fossiles, H. V. Vallois and H. L. Movius (eds.). Congrés Géologique International, XIX Sess., Comp.-Rendus, fase. 5, 1958.
——. Evaluation of evidence from the skeleton. In Legal medicine, R. B. H. Gradwohl (ed.), pp. 407-450, 1954.
Swallen, Jason R. New grasses from Guatemala. Phytologia, vol. 4, pp. 423-427, 1953.

<<<Page: 72>>>

(See also under
Michael. The Mineral.,
Switzer, George. Foshag, W. F.)
— and Fleischer, bavenite problem. Amer. vol. 38, pp. 988-993, 1953.
— and Thompson, R. D. Gem stones. U. S. Bureau Mines Minerals Yearbook, 10 pp., 1952.
Walker, Egbert H. Botanizing with the Okinawans. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1952, pp. 359-883, pls. 1-10, fig. 1, 1953.
Warmke, Germaine L., and Abbott, R. Tucker. The gross anatomy and 0ccurrence in Puerto Rico of the pelecypod Yoldia perprotracta. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 43, No. 8, pp. 260-261, 2 figs., August 1958.
Wedderburn, Alexander J. A criticism of the Baltimore International Salon. Journ. Amer. Soe. Photogr. Art, vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 7-12, January 1954.
Wedel, Waldo R. Prehistory and the Missouri Valley development program; Summary report on the Missouri River Basin archeological survey in 1948. River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 1, Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 154, pp. 1-59, 1953.
Prehistory and the Missouri Val-
ley development program; summary
report on the Missouri River Basin archeological survey in 1949. River
Basin Surveys Papers, No. 2, Bur.
Amer. Hthnol. Bull. 154, pp. 61-100,
1953.
Some aspects of human ecology in the Central Plains. Amer. Anthr., vol. 55, No. 4, pp. 499-514, October 1953.
Wedel, Waldo R. Earthernware and steatite vessels from northwestern Wyoming. Amer. Antiquity, vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 408-409, April 1954.
Wetmore, Alexander. The application of the name Hmberiza leucophrys Forster. Auk, vol. 70, pp. 372-378, July 1953.
Further additions to the birds
of Panama and Colombia. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 122, No. 8,
pp. 1-12, 19538.
——, Friedmann, Herbert, et al. Twenty-eighth supplement to the American Ornithologists’ Union
Check-list of North American birds.
Auk, vol. 70, pp. 359-361, July 1953.
and Parkes, K. C. Notes on the generic affiliations of the great grebe of South America. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 44, pp. 126-128, April 1954.
Wilson, Mildred Stratton. Some significant points in the distribution of Alaskan fresh-water copepod Crustacea. Proc. Second Alaskan Sci. Conf. (1951), pp. 315-318, 1953.
New and inadequately known North American species of the copepod genus Diaptomus. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 122, No. 2,
pp. 1-30, figs. 1-58, 1953.
New Alaskan records of Hurytemora (Crustacea, Copepoda). Pacifie Sci., vol. 7, pp. 504-512, figs. 1-7, 1953.
—— and Moore, Walter G. Diagnosis of a new species of diaptomid copepod from Louisiana. Trans. Amer. Microsc. Soc., vol. 72, pp. 292— 295, figs. 1-12, 1953.

<<<Page: 73>>>

Donors to the National Collections
(Hxzcept when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance
with law)
Abbott, R. Tucker, Washington, D. C.: 5 marine and land shells from Bermuda (200972).
Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Tll.: 1 bottle Fumidil (198927).
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry) 111 land mollusks, including 69 paratypes from México (2007438, exchange).
Acosta-Solis, Dr. M., Quito, Ecuador: 388 plants from Heuador (189843).
Adachi, Marion, and Hardy, Dr. D. Elme, Honolulu, T. H.: 24 type longlegged flies from Hawaii (202176).
Adams, Dr. C. D., Achimota, Gold Coast, Africa: 30 ferns from Africa (201223, exchange).
Adams, Mrs. Charles H., Portland, Maine: Sholes and Glidden typewriter with foot treadle stand (199977).
Adams, Dr. J. Lee, Reno, Nev.: 410 Triassic invertebrate fossils from Nevada and California (199312).
Adams, John W., Denver, Colo.: A erystal of genthelvite described by Jewel J. Glass and donor (199962).
Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, College Station, Tex.: (Through Prof. Omer E. Sperry) 3 plants from Texas (200080).
Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE, Hntomology Research Branch: 15 land snails from California, Georgia, Heuador, El Salvador, México, and Panamaé, and 6 land planarians (198647, 199889, 200642, 201665, 202442) ; 107 land mollusks from British Honduras, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Ireland, Jamaica, Pert, Spain, Liberia, Midway Island, United States, and Venezuela (198740, 199469, 199675, 200181, 200372, 200506, 201313, 201470, 202084, 202348) ; 17 land and fresh-water mollusks from Oklahoma, Panama, and Tunisia (198991) ; (through C. F. W. Muesebeck) 3 copepod crustaceans (199188) ; (through Curtis W. Sabrosky) 3,000 miscellaneous insects collected in Norway and Sweden during summer of 1953 by Mr. Sabrosky (200141) ; (through Dr. Paul W. Oman)
21 land snails from Ecuador (200934) ; 58,247 miscellaneous insects from all over the world (202477). Horticulturai Crops Research Branch: 21 Costa Rican ferns (198686) ; 7,280 plants collected in Colombia by Dr. R. E. Schultes (198809, 201890, 202325) ; 64,587 plants (199529, 199956, 202826); 163 plants from Costa Rica, collected by Dr. John Carpenter (200216); 223 plants from United States, Brazil, and Argentina (201051) ; 49 grasses collected in North Carolina by W. A. Silveus (201873) ; 26 grasses collected in Iraq by Walter Koelz (201874) ; 8 grasses from Puerto Rico (202229) ; (through James I. Hambleton) colony (5 frames) of hybrid bees (198810) ; (through Dr. W. Andrew Archer) 20 mounted unicates of the Cinchona Mission (200131). Field Crops Research Branch: 6 phanerogams from Colombia (199753). Forrest SErvIcE: (Through Doris Hayes) 8 ferns from Alaska, collected by H. J. Lutz (198798) ; 56 specimens of woods collected in Yucatan, México (202080) ; 16 wood specimens from Alabama, California, Guatemala, Marshall Islands. New Guinea, and Liberia (202497). Sort CoNSERVATION SERVICE: 54 plants from New Mexico, collected by Dr. J. L. Gardner (199659) ; 112 plants from New Mexico, Oregon, and Georgia (200021, 201812, 201988).
Aichi Gakugei University, Okazaki City, Japan: (Through Hitoo Ohira) 60 beetles from Japan (201508, exchange).
Alabama Department of Conservation, Montgomery, Ala.: (Through Joseph §. Jones) 10 caterpillars from Alabama (198778).
Alabama Geological Survey, University, Ala.: (Through Dr. Winnie McGlamery) 3 Hocene brachiopods (202219, exchange).
Alba, Dr. Aurelio Malaga, México, D. I.: 5 big-eared bats from México and California (201069).
Albanese, John S., Union, N. J.: 4 minerals: ilmenite, Uganda; cassiterite, Tanganyika ; nepheline, Kenya ; and grunerite, France (201240).

<<<Page: 74>>>

Allanson, Henry, Scientists Cliffs, Md.: 1 female purple finch (201387).
Allard, H. A., Arlington, Va.: 1,122 plants collected in Virginia and West Virginia (198756, 201058).
Allard, Howard F., Arlington, Va.: 2 hummingbirds from Perti (200630).
Allen, Robert P., Tavernier, Fla.: 10 brackish-water mollusks from Camaguey Province, Cuba (198895).
Allen, William T., Dallas, Tex.: 2 specimens of volcanic ash from 1944 eruption of Mount Vesuvius (201236). (See also Weeks, C. A.)
Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.: (Through John Gammell) Schematic model of an industrial gas turbine generator set (199755).
American Air Mail Society, Norfolk, Va.: (Through Adm. Jesse M. Johnson) American Air Mail Society medal (198920).
American Medical Association, Chieago, Ill.: (Through Dr. Thomas G. Hull) Exhibit which displays in trueto-life manikins the location, size, and appearance of all organs of the human body, exclusive of the extremities (200640, loan).
American Museum of Natural History, New York, N. Y.: 1 Galapagos finch (199471, exchange) ; (through Dr. Junius B. Bird) 36 textile and stone artifacts, Peru, and 2 pieces of pottery, Brazil (201885, exchange).
American Numismatic Association, New York, N. Y.: (Through Vernon L. Brown) 75 coins for A. N. A. Moritz Wormser Memorial collection (199292, loan).
American Society of Photographic Art, Brecksville, Ohio: (Through C. L. Chafee) 145 prints by the Society’s members for special exhibition June 1954 (202499, loan).
Ames, W. P., Montross, Va. : 1 hognose snake and 2 water snakes collected near Montross (202021).
Ananthakrishnan, T. N., Madras, India: 10 thrips from India (199294, exchange).
Andersen, Svend, Washington, D. C.: 1 star-nosed mole (200773).
Anderson, A. Benton, Hazardville, Conn.: 3 chlorites and 1 babingtonite from Lane quarry, Westfield, Mass. (199702, exchange).
Anduze, Dr. Pablo, Caracas, Venezuela: 5 fishes and 34 marine invertebrates from Rio Orinoco, 3 km. above La Esmeralda, Venezuela (195564) ; 1 short-tailed opossum from Venezuela (199612).
Ankeney, C. G., Clear Spring, Md.: (Through F. H. Ankeney) Pseudomorph specimen from north of Clear Spring (199156).
Ankeney, F. H. (See Ankeney, C. G.)
Anonymous: 1 Carolina chickadee (200128) ; 2 Persian polychrome tiles (201840) ; tubular wooden drum from Hast Africa (201342).
Appel, Dr. Bernard, Lynn, Mass.: Statue bust of Hippocrates sculptured by Doris Appel, in memory of Dr. William P. Boardman (201047).
Archer, Dr. W. Andrew. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Horticultural Crops Research Branch)
Arctic Institute of North America, Washington, D. C.: 43 plants collected in Alaska by Dr. Lyman Benson (202227).
Ardé, Paul, Lund, Sweden: 10 flies from Sweden (200084, exchange).
Aristéguieta, Dr. Leandro. (See Instuto Botanico)
Arizona, University of, Tucson, Ariz. : 295 plants of Arizona, mostly collected by Dr. K. Parker (199924, exchange) ; (through Dr. Charles H. Lowe, Jr.) paratype salamander collected by Dr. Lowe in Santa Cruz County, Ariz. (200479).
Armat, Mrs. Thomas, Washington, D. C.: 17.5-millimeter motion picture projector made by Thomas Armat about 1916-17 (202351).
Armstrong, J. Elwood, Detroit, Mich. : 57 pictorial photographs by Mr. Armstrong for special exhibition January and February 1954 (200687, loan).
Arnaud, Pau! H., Stanford University, Calif.: 1 fungus gnat from California (199667).
Arnett, Dr. Ross H., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 750 miscellaneous beetles from all over the world (198817).
Arnold, Mrs. J. M., Hast Orange, N. J.: Booklet 626 of embroidery patterns by Heinrich Kuehn, Berlin (201667).
Arnold, John R., Stockton, Calif.: 10 beetles from California (199541); 3 fresh-water medusae from Mormon Slough, near Linden, Calif. (199718).
Aronson, Irene, Long Island, N. Y.: 85 etchings by Miss Aronson for special exhibition February 1954 (200966, loan).
Arpad, Michael, Washington, D. C.: Unglazed globular white pottery bottlevase made by Louis Comfort Tiffany of New York in 1890’s (2010382).
Artia, Ltd. (See Czechoslovakia, Government of)
Arvey, Dr. M. Dale, Long Beach, Calif.: 1 mammal and 1 bird from Tokyo, Japan (198926).
Aschemeier, Charles R., Washington, D. C.: 1 Carolina wren skeleton (202458).
Ashby, Wallace L., Springfield, Va.: Bones and teeth of long-beaked porpoise,

<<<Page: 75>>>

collected in Calvert formation by donor July 1953 near Parkers Creek, Calvert County, Md. (201653).
Aslakson, Comdr. Carl I., Patrick Air Force Base, Fla.: Approximately 150 marine mollusks from Florida and the West Indies (199932).
Aslakson, Comdr. and Mrs. Carl I., Cocoa Beach, Fla.: 3 marine mollusks from Banana River, Cocoa Beach (198704).
Atkins, Mr. and Mrs. John D., Arlington, Va.: Prehnite specimen from Bull Run quarry, between Centreville and Gainesville, Fairfax County, Va. (198914).
Australia, Commonwealth Government of, Department of Agriculture, Sydney: 12 plants from Australia (199201, gift-exchange); 187 plants from Australia (200214, 202169, exchange). Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra: 145 Australian plants (199586, exchange). Melbourne Botanic Gardens and National Herbarium, Victoria: 1 fungus from Australia (199052).
Avery, Phyllis, Washington, D. C.: 1 small wooden chest brought from Scotland in 1860 (198619).
Avniel, Mordechai, Haifa, Israel: 26 woodcuts for special exhibition March 1954 (201357, loan).
Babbitt, Lewis T., Petersham, Mass.: 2 turtles and 6 frogs from Connecticut, collected by donor in 1953 (201544).
Bailey, Prof. Stanley F. (See California, University of)
Baisas, Dr. F. E. (See Philippines, Republic of, Department of Health)
Bakelite Co., New York, N. Y.: 3 panels containing a small diorama representing the manufacture and use of Polystyrene, Vinyl, Polyethylene, and Phenolic plastics (201497).
Baker, Dr. Rollin H. (See Kansas, University of)
Baker, Seth N. (See Sharp & Dohme)
Baldwin, Lee, Charles City, Iowa: 12 brachiopods from Hackberry formation, Rockford, Iowa (201284).
Banco de Fomento Agricola & Industrial de Cuba, Centro de Investigaciones Pesqueras, Playa Habana, Bauta, Cuba: (Through Dr. Isabel Pérez Farfante) 43 shrimps and 2 crabs (200845, exchange).
Banco Nacional de Cuba, Habana, Cuba: 4 commemorative coins of centennial years of José Marti (200608).
Bandy, Dr. Mark C., Sinoia, Southern Rhodesia: 1 cornetite from Rhodesia Copper Ventures mine, Sinoia (200455).
Banks, Mrs. Edgar J., Eustis, Fla.: 4 pieces antique laces and embroideries (202196).
Banner, Dr. Albert H., Honolulu, T. H.: 271 marine invertebrates from Saipan, collected by donor (198655).
Barbosa, Dr. Frederico Simoes. (See Instituto Aggeu Magalhaes)
Barneby, Rupert C., Wappingers Falls, N. Y.: 8 plants (199695).
Barnhard, Lt. Clyde S. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army)
Barron, Col. E. M. Gem Mining Co.)
Barros, Dr. Manuel, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 1 phanerogam (198871).
Barthelmes, Heinz, Altmorschen, Germany: Approximately 1,000 land and fresh-water mollusks from Germany (201425, exchange).
Bartley, D. C., Seattle, Wash.: 6 U. S. Washington Territory first-day covers (202428).
Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 78 plants from Ohio, West Virginia, and Idaho (200751).
Barton, Prof. A. J., Stony Brook, L. I.,
(See Southern
N. Y.: 1 Mullenburg’s turtle from Brickerville, Lancaster County, Pa. (202506).
Bartram, M. Thomas. (See Health, Edueation, and Welfare, U. S. Department of)
Bartsch, Dr. Paul, Lorton, Va.: Mole snake, salamander, lizard, and snake from Lorton, collected by donor (198651, 199433); 6 birds (201604, 201807) ; 2 snakes and 3 land snails from “Lebanon,” Lorton, Va., collected by donor (202359, 202505). (See also Hall, Hvelyn H.) ;
Basel Museum of Natural History, Basel, Switzerland: (Through Dr. E. Handsehin) 162 insects (197105, exchange).
Bastos Tigre, Carlos. (See Ministerio da Viacio e Obras Publicas)
Bausch & Lomb Optical Co., Rochester, N. Y.: (Through M. C. Williamson) 5 pairs of contemporary eyeglasses (201246).
Bayer, Frederick M., Washington, D. C.: 1 sea-urchin and 71 mollusks from Japan (200682, 200775) ; trumpet, tawi, made from shell, and a painted model of outrigger canoe, collected by donor on Ifaluk, Caroline Islands (201488). (See also National Research Council, Pacific Science Board)
Beach, Kay H., Edwardsville, Kans.: 471 plants from southern Asia (198748).
Beal, Dr. R. S., Jr., Denver, Colo.: 1 beetle from Arizona (199283, exchange).
Bears Bluff Laboratories, Wadmalaw Island, S. C.: (Through G. Robert Lunz) 8 erabs from the vicinity of Wadmalaw Island (198262).
Beck, Dr. Carl W., Albuquerque, N. Mex.: 2 minerals: chinoit from Chino

<<<Page: 76>>>

mine, Santa Rita, N. Mex, and callaghanite from Gabbs, Nev. (200962).
Beck, William M., Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.: (Through Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.) 108 shrimps and 8 crayfishes from streams in western Florida (199556).
Beckner, John, St. Petersburg, Fla.: 2 ferns from Florida (200959).
Becton, Dickinson & Co., Rutherford, N. J.: Exhibit entitled “Story of Hypodermie Syringes” (201362).
Beecher, Mrs. Sarah C., Silver Spring, Md.: U. S. Marine Corps officer’s fulldress uniform and accessories, owned by Maj. Richard S. Collum, 1861-1897 (200762).
Belkin, Dr. John, Los Angeles, Calif. : 15 horseflies from North America (200038).
Benedict, James E., Jr., Silver Spring, Md.: Approximately 300 marine mollusks from St. Mary’s County, Md. (202338).
Bender, George A. & Co.)
Benedict, Dr. Ralph C., Brooklyn, N. Y.; 8 cultivated ferns (200305).
Benesh, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn. : 42 beetles from United States (199626, 201066).
Benham, Willard M., Nacozari, México: 5 antimony and allemontite specimens from northern Sonora, México (199501).
Benjamin, Ruth Avery, Cambridge, Mass.: Series of 7 letters written from Washington, D. C., in 1876 by mother of donor (200210).
Bennett, Susan A., Charleston, S. C.: 3 marine pelecypod mollusks from South Carolina (201760).
Bentinck, William C., San Francisco, Calif.: 35 flies from Japan (200466). (See also Defense, Department of, Department of the Army)
Bequaert, Dr. Joseph. University, Zoology)
Berg, Dr. C. O., Ithaca, N. Y.: 7 type flies from Alaska (200469).
(See Parke, Davis
(See Harvard Museum of Comparative
Bergseng, Mrs. Margaret. (See Wisconsin, University of) Berlioz, Prof. M. Jacques. (See Mu-
séum National d’Histoire Naturelle)
Bernard, Dr. F. See Université d’ Alger)
Berry, Dr. Elmer G. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
Berry, Dr. S. Stillman, Redlands, Calif. : 9 marine and land mollusks from California, including 5 paratypes of new species (199228, exchange).
Beyer, C. B., Albuquerque, N. Mex.: Case of drafting instruments (199264).
Bhandari, Vidya, Simla, Punjab, India: Representation of Buddha, seated
in preaching position, recently carved in alabaster at Agra, India (201602).
Bird, Dr. Junius B. (See American Museum of Natural History)
Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Honolulu, T. H.: (Through J. L. Gressitt) 1 fish from Kusaie, Caroline Islands (201542).
Biswas, Buddhadeb, Calcutta, India : 15 samples of beach sands containing Foraminifera from India (202191, exchange).
Black, Arthur F., Charlotte, N. C.: 320 philatelic specimens (200416).
Black, Colin. (See Rhodesia and Nyasaland, Federation of)
Black, George A., Bélem, Para, Brazil: 2 plants from Brazil (200402).
Black, Mrs. Hanson Briscoe, Washington, D. C.: 9 ethnological specimens from Crow, Apache, and Alaskan tribes collected 1887-1907 (199467).
Blackmer, Mrs. Ania (deceased) : (Through John C. Hubbard) Colt army revolver with leather holster, carried during Civil War by Martin W. Wescott (201899, bequest).
Blandford, Ned, McLean, Va.: 4 minerals: 2 bornites from Fairfax quarry, between Centreville and Gainesville, Va.; bavenite and bertrandite in albite from Rutherford mine, Amelia, Va.; and vivianite from Cobalt, Idaho (199516, 199701).
Blanton, Lt. Col. F. S. Department of, Department of Army)
Blume, Prof. Dr. Werner, Goettingen, Germany: 568 mollusks, mainly land and fresh-water, from Burope, Asia, and Africa (202252, exchange).
Bohart, Dr. R. M., Davis, Calif.: 3 slides of type mosquitoes from California and Okinawa (200143).
Boker, John R., New York, N. Y.: 5,049 philatelic specimens: pre-Presidential Bureau Precancels in blocks, strips, and pairs (199504); 13,934 United States Bureau Print Precancels known as W. Berton Hoover Memorial Collection (2023383).
Boliek, Dr. Irene. University )
Bond, P. A., Washington, D. C.: 150 skins of North American birds (201491).
Bonet, Dr. F., México, D. F.: 60 harvestmen spiders, including types, from México (199279).
Bonetto, Dr. Argentino A. (See Direecién General de Investigacién y Fomento Agricola-Ganadero)
Borden, Granville S. (See Treasury, U. S. Department of the)
Boshell M., Dr. J., Guatemala City, Guatemala: 18 opossums from Nicaragua (200646).
(See Defense, the
(See Florida State

<<<Page: 77>>>

Botanischer Garten und Museum, Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: 200 Samoan plants, Vaupel collection (199658, exchange) ; 200 plants collected in Hast Africa by Dr. Albert Peter (200753, exchange).
Botaniske Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark : 273 miscellaneous ferns (179936).
Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Arlington, Va.: 20 erystals of datolite from Lane quarry, Westfield, Mass. (200634, exchange); 4 thaumasites from Centreville, Va. (202241).
Boudreaux, Prof. H. Bruce, Baton Rouge, La.: 6 type slides of mites (200647).
Bougis, Dr. P., Paris, France: 1 fish from off coast of Algeria (197431).
Boursot, John Basile, San Salvador, El Salvador: (Through Dr. R. M. Darnell) 66 sea anemones, 6 crabs, and 3 mollusks (200570).
Bovers, Fritz, Goslar, Germany: 18 ores from the Rammelsberg district, Goslar, Germany (199309, exchange).
Bowie, Lucy Leigh, Baltimore, Md.: 1 loom-beaded belt, probably Chippewa, made before 1861 (199950).
Bowman, Mrs. James E, Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 Whitall-Tatum “Three Star” nursing bottle (200424).
Bradford, Faith, Chevy Chase, Md.: Mid-Victorian vase (200765).
Bradley, Dr. G. A., Saskatchewan, Canada, and Hottes, Dr. F. C., Grand Junction, Colo.: 3 paratypes of aphids (199875).
Bradley, Dr. W. H. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the, Geological Survey)
Brady, Maurice K., Washington, D. C.: 2 worms from Virginia (199520).
Brady, Peter, Washington, D. C.: 4 salamanders from Elk Mountain, Nelson County, Va., collected by donor August 1953 (200145).
Branham, Mrs. Hugh, Fort Myers Beach, Fla.: 1 marine mollusk from Indian Ocean (201552).
Bratter, Mrs. Herbert M., Washington, D. C.: Chinese scholar’s hood, Manchu period; 2 bracelets from India; dipper of coconut shell and wood; Indian drum from southeast Alaska (202493).
Braun, Dr. Annette F., Cincinnati, Ohio: 2 Microlepidoptera from Michigan (199776); 440 “mines” of identified leaf mining insect of Hurope (200539).
Brazil, University of, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: (Through Dr. Paulo de Miranda Ribeiro) 2 fishes (199053, exchange).
Breitung, August J., Glendale, Calif. : 212 grasses from Waterton Lakes National Park, Canada (200213) ; 32 ferns from Canada (200251, 201458).
Bresser, Mrs. Esther Fritch. Vargo, Mrs. Kathryn Fritch)
Brinton, Dr. Edward. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Britton, Dr. E. B. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Broad, Carter, Beaufort, N. C.: 8 shrimps from Beaufort (199394).
Brock, Dr. Vernon E., Honolulu, T. H.: 18 parrot fishes from Hawaiian Islands (198990). (See also Hawaii, Territory of)
Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Aubrey Gorbman) Approximately 40 freshwater mollusks from Long Island, N. Y. (199389).
Brookings, Mrs. Walter Dubois, Alexandria, Va.: 95 needlepoint and bobbin-made laces and embroideries made by members of New England families early in the 1800’s (202455).
Brother Daniel, Medellin, Colombia: 75 plants from Colombia (199366, 200162).
Brother Ginés. (See Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales la Salle)
Brouwer, Prof. Dr. H. A. (See Geologisch Instituut der Universiteit)
Brower, Dr. A. E. (See Maine State Forest Service)
Brown, Charles S., Estate of, Syraeuse, N. Y.: Flintlock double barrel shotgun of about 1840 (166461, bequest).
Brown, Dr. Harley P., Norman, Okla. : 66 spongilla flies from United States (200468).
Brown, Vernon L. (See American Numismatic Association)
Brown, Dr. W. L., Jr., Cambridge, Mass.: 45 miscellaneous flies from Victoria, Australia (201733) ; 58 ants from United States and Australia (201927,
(See
exchange). (See also Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology)
Brucker, Bradley, Arlington, Va.: 2 lizards from Utah and California, collected by donor in 1953 (200488).
Brunel, Dr. Jules. (See Institut Botanique)
Bruner, Dr. S. C., Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: 2 beetles from Cuba (179878).
Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 1 “Commodore Perry’’ first-day cover autographed by Ambassador Hikichi Araki of Japan and Postmaster General A. E. Summerfield, and 1 Netherlands cover (199241); 1 mint sheet 3-cent Baltimore and Ohio U. S. commemorative (200139); 121 foreign and domestic philatelic specimens (200731) ; 12 Liberian philatelie specimens (200732, loan) ; 67 stamps from Liberia and Monaco (200769); 6,710

<<<Page: 78>>>

philatelic specimens: assorted souvenir booklets, stamps, envelopes, and posteards from United States, Nicaragua, Serbia, El Salvador, Ecuador, Honduras, Liberia (202381).
Bruns, Hattie H., New York, N. Y.: TVirst-day cover of United Nations 3cent embossed envelope (199663).
Brunton, Frank, Washington, D. C.: 2 cacheted first-day covers (200767).
Buckley, Dr. J. L. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Bueso Arias, Jorge, Santa Rosa de Copan, Honduras: 1 10-centavo coin of Honduras (202312).
Bullock, Eugene F., Barrington, R. I.: Inseribed colonial American powder horn (202089).
Bullock, Dr. Theodore H., Los Angeles, Calif.: 2 land mollusks from Perti (201484).
Bundesminister fur das Post-undFernmeldewesen, Bonn, Germany: 4 German commemorative stamps (202467).
Burbanck, Dr. W D., Emory University, Ga.: 8 crayfishes from Smallens Cave, Mo. (178686).
Burch, John Bayard, Richmond, Va.: 82 fresh-water mollusks from Hanover and Henrico Counties, Va. (198696).
Burch, Prof. Paul R., Radford, Va.: Potsherds, stone and bone artifacts recovered from Radford Ordnance Works campsite, north of Radford (202417).
Burdick, William N., Los Angeles, Calif.: 6 butterflies from United States (200034).
Buren, Dr. William F., Savannah, Ga.: 78 named ants from United States (200788).
Burger, Dr. W. Leslie, Urbana, Ill.: 2 racerunner lizards, one a type, from Santa Cruz County, Ariz. (198653).
Burkenroad, Martin D., Port Aransas, Tex. : 2 shrimps collected in 30 fathoms from between Challenger and Argue Banks, Bermuda (201614).
Burns, Douglas M., Portland, Oreg.: 2 salamanders, type and paratype, new subspecies of salamander from Multnomah County, Oreg. (201093).
Burr, C. Fred, Phoenix, Ariz.: 3 minerals from Arizona (200961, exchange).
Burrill, A. C., Ringgold, Ga.: 61 snails from Ringgold (198788).
Burton, Dr. E. Milby. ton Museum)
Buten, Henry M., Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 postcard picturing Smithsonian Institution (200768).
Butler, Dr. Philip A. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Caillere, Mile. S. (See Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle)
(See Charles-
Calef, Morris, Bronx, N. Y.: Japanese Nambu automatic pistol and leather scabbard, and Japanese flag, World War II (199968).
California, University of, Berkeley,
Calif.: 3 grasses from EH] Salvador (198780) ; 306 miscellaneous plants (199049, exchange); 1 phanerogam
from México (199135) ; 2 grasses from California (201000) ; 1 grass from Dominican Republic (201055) ; 209 plants collected in Fiji and Tonga by H. E. Parks (202075) ; (through Prof. Stanley EF. Bailey) 1 thrips from California (198923) ; (through Dr. Boyd W. Walker) 445 fishes, mostly from Gulf of California, México (201205, exchange).
California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, Calif.: 38 plants (198750, exchange); 1 grass from California, collected by John Thomas Howell (202077) ; (through Dr. Hugh B. Leech) 5 beetles from Galapagos Islands (199220).
California Research Corp., San Francisco, Calif. ; Holotypes of 2 fossil plants (201983).
Cambridge, Philip, Cardiff, South Wales, Great Britain: Approximately 1,750 mollusks, and 7 caddis fly cases from Great Britain and Italy (200599, exchange).
Campbell, Robert S. Ralph)
Campex: (Through H. D. Mitchell) 1 Campex souvenir china plate featuring Pan-American Union (200420).
Campos, Luciano. (See Colecion Nacional de Insectos de Chile)
Canadian Government, Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Ontario: 49 grasses from Canada, mostly collected
(See Taylor,
by William G. Dore (190361); 461 plants from Canada (201389, exchange).
Cane, Dr. Walter, Hempstead, L. I., N. Y.: Mignon typewriter, purchased about 1905 (201857).
Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institution: Barite specimen from Smith ranch, Elk Creek, Meade County, S. Dak. (200023) ; 5 minerals from Trepea, Jugoslavia (2010638) ; 1 thorianite crystal from Madagascar (2022389).
Cape Town, University of, Rondebosch, Union of South Africa: (Through Dr. HE. A. Schelpe) 2 plants from South Africa (201004).
Carl, Dr. G. Clifford. (See Provincial Museum)
Carpenter, Capt. Walter N., Arlington, Va.: 71 miscellaneous mollusks (198689, exchange).
Carrera, Dr. Messias, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 42 flies, including 5 paratypes, from Brazil (199314).

<<<Page: 79>>>

Carrington, Kent, Chevy Chase, Md.: Approximately 500 fresh-water mollusks from New York (200425).
Casey, R., London, England: 8 plaster easts of Cretaceous ammonites from Europe (200964).
Causey, Dr. David, Fayetteville, Ark.: 3 type slides of coccidian protozoa from Los Angeles, Calif. (200174) ; 15 parasitic copepods from Pascagoula,
Miss. (200384); 1 parasitic barnacle (201960). Cawthra, Elizabeth M., Glasgow,
Scotland: 9 weevil larvae from Scotland (201504).
Celanese Corporation of America, New York, N. Y.: 15 acetate fabrics (199175).
Chace, E. P., Lomita, Calif.: 50 marine invertebrates, and echinoderms, collected from intertidal zone one-half mile south of Point Pinos, Monterey, Calif., in kelp holdfasts (201547).
Chace, Dr. F. M., Arlington, Va.: 1 specimen gold-silver ore, Golden Queen mine, Mojave, Calif. (202174).
Chafee, C. L. (See American Society of Photographic Art)
Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea, Smithsonian Institution: 1 faceted tourmaline from Mozambique (199157) ; 1 salmon colored morganite from Brazil (201071) ; sphene from Ojos Negros, Baja California, 5.18 carats (201814).
Chambers, Mrs. Dorris C., Washington, D. C.: Pen-and-ink drawing of Fort Clay, Lexington, Ky., made by Samuel Coss, October 4, 1863 (202511).
Chapin, Dr. Edward A., West Medway, Mass.: Wooden sword-club of recent Easter Island provenience, presented to donor in 1946 by Sefior Olalguiaga Fauré (201278).
Charleanneau, F. E., Washington, D. C.: Remington type rifle with European modifications, 1896 (202247, exchange).
Charleston Museum, Charleston, S. C.: (Through Dr. E. Milby Burton) 4 marine mollusks from South Carolina (201761).
Chase, V. H., Peoria, Ill.: 181 grasses (201049); (through Dr. Egbert H. Walker) 41 fossil plants and approximately 200 invertebrate fossils from the
Pennsylvanian, vicinity of VPeoria (199517).
Chatterton, R. Wayne, Caldwell, Idaho: 2 butterflies from Idaho
(198656). Cheatum, Dr. E. P. Methodist University) Chelf, Carl R., Austin, Tex.: 500 gastropods and pelecypods from lower Cretaceous of Texas (201351). Chicago Natural History Museum, Chicago, Ill.: 1 Osgood’s tinamou
(See Southern
(200330, exchange) ; 1 paratype croco-. dilian skull from Colombia, collected by Dr. Fred Medem (202279, exchange) ; (through Dr. Francis Drouet) 124 algae (199625, exchange) ; (through Loren P. Woods) 22 parrot fishes, including 1 paratype, from Bermuda (201845, exchange); (through Robert F. Inger) 4 frogs and 1 lizard, paratypes (202012, exchange).
Clark, Austin H. (See Spence, David)
Clark, John H. Association )
Clark, John J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 4 cacheted covers from Hire (199802, 202398).
Clark University, Worcester, Mass. : 20 grasses, mostly from Alaska (197852) ; 6 plants collected in Massachusetts (199480, 201492).
Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates, Washington, D. C.: 2 birds, 16 lizards, 1 crustacea, 500 mollusks, 1 lot corals, 3 mammals, 29 plants, and 3 fishes, from Kusai, Caroline Islands, collected by donor in 1953 (198473) ; 382 Microlepidoptera from Japan (199203, 199378, 200140, 201887) ; pane of 25 Allied Military Occupation of Germany stamps (202390).
Clay-Adams Co., Ine. New York, N. Y.: (Through Henry Gumpert) Set of Series MF History of Medicine Medichrome Slides (199423).
Clench, Dr. William J. University, Zoology)
Cloud, Dr. Preston E., Jr. (See Dunlap, John C., and Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey)
Coachella Valley County Water District, Coachella, Calif.: (Through Dr. M. O. Nolan) 50 fresh-water clams from Coachella Valley (200341).
Coe, Dr. Wesley R., La Jolla, Calif.: 35 marine invertebrates, on 175 slides, including 16 types, collected in various parts of the Pacific Ocean (200071).
Cohen, N. M., Washington, D. C.: 1 woodcut, “The Falcon,” by Jacob Pins (200718).
Cole, Dr. A. C., Knoxville, Tenn. : 460 ants from New Mexico (201244, exchange) ; 50 ants from North America (201361).
Cole, Donald P., Arlington, Va.: Miscellaneous material relating to Fall River Line and Steamboat Commonwealth (198724).
Cole, Ralph, Washington, D. C.: 20 philatelie specimens: 2-volume collection of airmail crash-covers, clippings, photostats and certificates of award (199508, loan).
Coleccién Nacional de Insectos de Chile, Santiago, Chile: (Through Luci-
(See Hire Philatelic
(See Harvard Museum of Comparative

<<<Page: 80>>>

ano Campos) 1 fly allotype from Chile (199362).
Colegio Anchieta, Porto Alegre, Brazil: (Through Dr. B. Rambo) 115 grasses from Brazil (200234) ; 1 plant from Brazil (200252).
Coleman, Richard W., Berkeley, Calif.: 28 insects from United States (200538).
College of Agriculture, Glen, Orange Free State, South Africa: (Through Dr. BE. K. Hartwig) 82 thrips, including 31 paratypes, all from South Africa (202194, exchange).
College of Forestry, Laguna, P. I.: 188 plants collected in Philippine Islands (202421).
Colton, John B., Jr. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Columbia Aquarium, Inc., New York, N. Y.: (Through Guenther L. Schott) 9 aquarium fishes (201442).
Columbia University, New York, N. Y.: Sherd samples of the Viru Valley, Perti pottery types (200017) ; (through F. J. Stokes Machine Co.) Eureka tablet machine (201247).
Compagnia Sammarinese, Rome, Italy: 4 Italian first day covers (199082, 199278, 199508, 200733).
Comstock, Dr. John A., Del Mar, Calif.: 300 Mexican microlepidoptera (199888).
Conkin, James E., Beeville, Tex.: 6 type Foraminifera from Keokuk formation in Jefferson County, Ky. (201992).
Converse, Mrs. Olivia, Valle de Bravo, México: Photograph of a phanerogam (198176).
Cook, Dr. Edwin F. University of)
Cook, John O. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of the, National Park Service)
Cooley, George R., Albany, N. Y.: 63 plants from Florida (201054, 201282, 201875, 202168).
Cooper, Dr. K. W., Rensselaerville, N. Y: 125 miscellaneous insects from Cordoba Province, Argentina (199221).
Corbett, William P., Sanibel, Fla.: 2 marine mollusks from Japan and Florida (201365, exchange)
Cornelius, George H., Seattle, Wash. : 6 blocks, 2 large concretions containing Tertiary fossils from Alaska (200528).
Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.: 391 plants collected in Australia by Arthur J. Eames (201811, exchange) ; (through Dr. Edward C. Raney) 335 fishes from North Atlantic, mostly by Albatross IIT, also from South America, collected by C. S. Hartt and J. Chester Bradley (202139). Bailey Hortorium: 3 phanerogams (201658, exchange).
(See Minnesota,
Coronado A., Pedro S., Lima, Pert: 14 Peruvian ferns (199468).
Costa, Joseph, New York, N. Y.: 70 monochrome prints and 9 color prints for special exhibition August and September 1953 (199079, loan).
Cottle, Robert E., Stockdale, Tex.: 2 Texas ground snakes from near Stockdale (201302).
Coursen, Blair. (See General Biological Supply House)
Cousen, Thomas W., Querétaro, México: 2 opals from Querétaro (199202).
Cox, Lt. Comdr. P. J., Jr., Vienna, Va.: Har pendant of jade, Maori, New Zealand (200327).
Cox, Dr. William, Seminole, Tex.: 5 branchiopods collected 10 miles west of Seminole (200506).
Cram, Dr. Eloise B. (See Health, Education and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
Crane, Mrs. W. Murray, New York, N. Y.: 26 costumes and accessories, early 20th century, from estate of Mrs. Frederick Keep, sister of donor (202244) ; pair candelabra and matching clock, Louis XVI style; Paris porcelain tea set; ornamental jade bird; pair Meissen porcelain candelabra; French candelabrum stand; miscellaneous ornamental figurines ; 2 Russian silver-gilt cups ; Chinese lacquered folding desk; and 2 French fans (52 specimens) (202470).
Creighton, Dr. W. S., New York, N. Y.: 15 ants from America (201818, exchange).
Crenshaw, John W., Jr., Gainesville, Fla.: 22 soft-shelled turtles from Georgia (201278).
Crickmay, Dr. C. H. Oil, Ltd.)
Croasdale, Dr. Hannah. mouth College)
Cromwell, Betty (deceased): (Through Mrs. Robert L. Morris) Embroidered undersleeve and collar, originally property of Elizabeth E. Cromwell, Kentucky, about 1853 (199460).
Crooks, Mrs. Stella, and Crooks, Ethel, Seattle, Wash.: Hand-carved powder horn made by Samuel Davis at Fort Ontario in 1762 (199158).
Cross, Dr. Frank B. (See Kansas, University of)
Croston, John. Administration )
Crouse, Mrs. Newell S., Santa Ana, Calif.: U. S. Army nurse’s uniform worn by donor in France, World War I (198918).
Crown Agents for the Colonies, Washington, D. C.: (Through A. J. E. Davis) 228 philatelic specimens (199062, 199162, 199274, 199502, 199871, 200415, 200725, 202377).
(See Imperial (See Dart-
(See General Services

<<<Page: 81>>>

Crowson, Roy A. versity of)
Crumb, S. E., Puyallup, Wash.: 150 late Miocene pelecypods and gastropods from 2 miles upstream from junction of Bogachiel and Sol Duc Rivers, Clallam County, Wash. (199855).
Cumming, Robert B., Gainesville, Fla.: 40 shrimps from Dominican Republic, and 2 paratypes of new species of damsel fly from Florida (201299) ; 2 erayfishes (201955); (through Dr.
(See Glasgow, Uni-
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.) 1 blind shrimp
and 1 eave crayfish from Squirrel Chimney, Alachua County, Fla. (199555).
Curtin, Mrs. Mary K., Washington, D. C.: English watch, probably 1796, made by Hardley Norton of London (2022385) ; 8 surgical instruments manufactured by C. C. Reinhardt & Co., and used by Dr. George Taylor in the 1850’s (2028385).
Curtis, Karl, Gamboa, C. Z.: Knitted carrying bag from Guaymi Indians, Veraguas, western Panama; 2 Lindbergh commemorative stamps (201785).
Czechoslovakia, Government of: (Through Artia, Ltd.) 81 philatelic specimens (199080, 199506, 199874, 200418, 200723, 200736, 202383).
da Costa Lima, Prof. Dr. A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 7 insects from Brazil including 5 types (199668). (See also Hscola Nacional de Agronomia)
Dahlgreen Fund, Smithsonian Institution: “Santa Clara Valley,” color woodcut by Antonio Frasconi (199927) ; encaustie color etching, ‘Landscape,’ by Milton Goldstein (201285); 24 chiaroscuro wood cuts by John Baptist Jackson reproducing 17 paintings by Venetian masters (202373).
Daiber, Dr. Franklin C. ware, University of)
Darling, Cyrus, Brattleboro, Vt.: 1 plant from Vermont (198684).
Darling, Thomas, Jr., Washington, D. C.: 2 ferns from Alaska and Oregon (200129).
Darnell, Dr. R. M. John Basil)
Dart, Mrs. W. L., West Palm Beach, Fla.: An applique quilt of about 1870 (201463).
Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.: (Through Dr. Hannah Croasdale) 18 algae from Alaska (200527).
Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents for the Colonies)
Davis, Dr. David E., Baltimore, Md.: 3 small mammals and 25 plants from Korea (200756, 201515).
Davis & Furber Machine Co., North Andover, Mass.: Original Scholfield wool-carding machine, 1798 (187285).
Dawson, Edwin P. (See Seamless Rubber Co.)
(See Dela-
(See Boursot,
Dayioglou, Mrs. Katina Bodossaki, Silver Spring, Md.: Doily of Tenerife needlepoint and jabot of needlepoint and embroidery (199148).
Dayton Public Library and Museum. (See Goldsmith, E. N.)
Dean, Mrs. Russell J. N., Arlington, Va.: 3 examples of 19th century velvet (2022383).
de Beaumont, Dr. J. Zoologique)
de Biezanko, Dr. C. M., Pelotas, Brazil: Approximately 800 miscellane-
(See Musee
ous insects from Brazil (198976, 202400).
Decker, W. M. (See Hygeia Nursing Bottle Co.)
Decoursey, Brig. Gen. Elbert. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology)
Defense, U. S. Department of, ARMED HORCES INSTITUTE OF PATHOLOGY, Washington, D. C.: (Through Brig. Gen. Elbert Decoursey) 2 panels of an exhibit entitled “The Development of the Stethoscope” for exhibition November— December 1953 (199966, loan) ; replicas of 9 Pompeii surgical instruments (201517, loan) ; 2-panel exhibit of 11 early microscopes (201928, loan); (through Col. Frank B. Rogers) 12 colored prints of 18th and 19th century medical caricatures for exhibition May, June, and July 1954 (202114, loan). DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY, Army Medical Service Graduate School: (Through Phyilis T. Johnson) 938 fleas (198924) ; (through Capt. Bryce C. Walton) 1 weasel, 1 red bat, and 1 shrew from Maryland (198925) ; 65 marine invertebrates, 2 scorpions, 4 millepedes, 47 mollusks, and 1 fish collected in Borneo in Joint U. S. Army-British Colonial Office project (201546); (through Dr. Donald MacMullen) 128 fresh-water mollusks from Alabama (199598) ; (through Robert HE. Elbel) mammals, 48 birds, 4 bird alcoholics, reptiles, 339 miscellaneous insects from British North Borneo (200629); (through Lt. Col. Robert Traub) 4 small mammals from Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Tenn. (200971) ; mammals, birds, and reptiles and amphibians from Korea (201044) ; 1,185 ticks (202441). (Through Dr. Willard V. King and Dr. Harry Hoogstraal, 19th Medical General Laboratory) 2,405 miscellaneous mosquitoes from Pacific region (198816) ; (through William C. Bentinck, U.S. Army Hospital 8164th A. U.) 156 midges from Japan (199879) ; (through Lt. Col. F. S. Blanton, 25th Preventive Medicine Survey Det.) 117 birds from Panama (200183, 202226) ; (through Dr. Willard V. King, 19th Medical General Laboratory) 405

<<<Page: 82>>>

mosquitoes from New Guinea, including types and slides (200639) ; (through Lt. Clyde S. Barnhart, 207th Preventive Medicine Survey) 145 mammals from Korea (201516). Office of Chief of Military History: 2 coins from ancient Greece and Byzantium (200459). Dr PARTMENT OF THE Navy: U.S. naval cutlass, Model 1917, with leather scabbard (201065) ; (through Lt. Comdr. Robert W. Kuntz, Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3) large collection of reptiles and amphibians; approximately 608 mollusks; 3,662 fishes; 334 mammals; 54 insects; 4 scorpions; 6 echinoderms; 456 marine invertebrates; 174 birds from Hgypt (198427, 199125, 199403, 201427, 202225, 202813). (Through Capt. J. L. Enyart, Naval Medical School) 51 mammals from Pescadores Islands, Formosa (195311); (through Comdr. W. J. Dougherty, Fleet Epidemic Disease Control Unit No. 2) 42 mammals from Pescadores Islands, Formosa (199042); (through Comdr. Kenneth L. Knight, Preventive Medicine Unit No. 1) 2 leaf-nosed bats from Cuba (200254) ; 1 land mollusk from Trinidad (200604) ; (through Dr. Harry Hoogstraal, Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3) 65 land and fresh-water mollusks from Anglo-Egyptian Sudan (202254).
de Fez, Dr. Siro, Valencia, Spain: Approximately 600 marine, land, and fresh-water mollusks from Spain and West Africa (198693, exchange).
DeFriece, Frank W., Jr. (See Massengill Co., S. E.)
Deichmann, Dr. Elisabeth. (See Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology)
de la Torre R. Senora Blanca, Habana, Cuba: 8,930 Cuban land snails, including types of new species and varieties of Polymita, from collection of the late Dr. Carlos de la Torre (198705).
de Laubenfels, David J., Athens, Ga.: 2 Tasmanian ferns (201226).
de Laubenfels, Dr. M. W., Corvallis, Oreg.: 2 type sponges from the Honolulu Public Aquarium (198670).
Delaware, University of, Newark, Del.: (Through Dr. Franklin C. Daiber) 1 berycoid fish collected at 110 fathoms 70 miles east-southeast of Atlantic City, N. J. (201481).
Delta State Teachers College, Cleveland, Miss.: 36 grasses from Mississippi (199190).
Demaree, Dr. Delzie, Bauxite, Ark.: 179 grasses from Mississippi and Arkansas (197986, 201227); 202 plants collected in southern United States (201349, 201495).
Dendy, Dr. J. S. Auburn, Ala.: 15 oysters from Philippines (196175).
Denmark, H. A. (See Florida State Plant Board)
Dennis, Jay. (See Seamen’s Church Institute of New York)
DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind.: 582 plants collected in Tonga by T. G. Yuneker (199847, 201057, 201810) ; 474 plants collected in Tonga by T. G. Yuncker (201986, exchange) ; (through Prof. Winona Welch) 188 plants collected primarily in Indiana (201876, exchange).
de Souza Lopes, Dr. H., Rio de Janeiro Brazil: 2 rare marine mollusks from Brazil (200975, exchange).
Dickerman, Dr. E. E., Put-in-Bay, Ohio: Holotype of new species, in new genus, of trematode (198902).
Dickinson, Martha. (See Weyhe Gallery )
Diem, José, Neuquén, Argentina: 6 ferns from Argentina (198908, 200673).
Dietrich, Dr. Henry, Ithaca, N. Y.: 12 insects from United States (201860).
Di Maggio, Andrea, Washington, D. C.: 1 shoulder blade of blackfish from Virginia (199674).
Dion, Frederick H., Weston, Mass.: (Through Mrs. William V. Smith) An 1890 flag and an 1896-1908 garrison flag (199462).
Direccién General de Investigacion y Fomento Agricola—Ganadero. Santa Fe, Argentina: (Through Dr. Argentino A. Bonetto) 291 fresh-water mollusks and approximately 20 marine invertebrates from Argentina (196065).
Dix, George P., Jr.. Moab, Utah: 1 uraninite, Utex mine, Moab, Utah (199857) ; (through Frank L. Hess) 2 zeunerites and 1 specimen of radiumbearing silicified wood from Indian Creek about 30 miles southwest of Moab, Utah (199376, 199593).
Dodek, Dr. and Mrs. Samuel, Washington, D. C.: Woodcut, “Man in a Lane,” by Jacob Pins (201654).
Dominican Republic, Government of: (Through Luis F. Thomen) 1 souvenir folder with sheet of Dominican Republic Columbus Memorial Beacon postage and airmail stamps (199355).
Donaldson, Col. Harold B., Alexandria, Va.: 124 woods from Japan, Thailand, Australia, and Hong Kong market (201991).
Doty, Dr. Maxwell S., Honolulu, T. H.: 12 bryophytes from Marshall Islands, collected by Leonard Horwitz under auspices of Pacific Science Board (2010538).
Dougherty, Comdr. W. J. (See Defense, Department of, Depariment of the Navy)
Douse, Mrs. Dorothy E., Washington, D. C.: 1 sapsucker (201033).

<<<Page: 83>>>

Downes, Dr. J. Antony, Ottawa, Ontario: 12 biting midges from Britain (201891).
Drake, Dr. C. J., Ames, Iowa: 3 paratype bugs from South America and India (201737, exchange).
Drake, Robert J., Tucson, Ariz.: 13 land mollusks from Baja California, México (201376).
Drouet, Dr. Francis. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Duhovnik, Dr. Joze. (See Smejkal, Mr.)
Duke University, Durham, N. C.: (Through Dr. G. W. Wharton) 10 salamanders from Duke Forest, Orange County, N. C., collected by A. A. Barber (198110).
Dundee, Miss Dee, Ann Arbor, Mich. : 46 land shells from Oklahoma (199252).
Dunlap, John C., Dallas, Tex.: (Through Dr. Preston HB. Cloud, Jr.) 9 marine mollusks from Red Sea, Saudi Arabia (201366).
Dunn School of Pathology, Sir William, Oxford, England: (Through Dr. N. G. Heatley) 5 specimens pertaining to the early manufacture and assay of penicillin (199422).
Duvall, Allen J. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Easterbrook, Col. Ernest F., Washington, D. C.: 2 Moro spears and a kris, brass helmet, coat of brass plate, and chain armor worn by Moro datto during Philippine Insurrection, collected by Chaplain Edmund Easterbrook, father of donor (202416).
Earel, Raleigh, Quincy, Ill: 1 pharmaceutical syrup dispensing bottle (200598).
Eastman, Col. Clyde L., St. Petersburg, Fla.: 18 Alaskan Eskimo culture objects collected by donor in 1912; pair Blackfoot Indian moosehide leggings; cowboy’s leather belt; wooden egg beater from México; and Chinese ivory fan (202367).
Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N. Y.: (Through Keith Lewis) 3 cameras, flashholder, and 3 lenses (201995).
Easton, Dr. William H., Los Angeles, Calif.: 75 Permian brachiopods from the Confusion Range in western Utah (200137, exchange).
Eaton, M. C. (See Norwich Pharmacal Co.)
Ecole d’Agriculture, Rimouski, Quebec: 40 grasses from Canada (200130) ; 250 plants and 1 sponge from Canada (201281, exchange).
Edgar, Dr. S. A., Auburn, Ala.: 300 adult mosquitoes from Tahiti, the Marquesas, and other Pacific islands (201513).
Edmondson, Dr. C. H., Honolulu, T. H.: 6 crabs from Pearl Harbor (201333).
Eickemeyer Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 4 pictorial photographie prints by. Hans Marx, “Leaving the Anchorage,” “Faces at the Station,” “At the Races,” and “Rendezvous at Chincoteague”’ (202242).
Hire Philatelic Association, Brooklyn, N. Y.: (Through John J. Clark) 2 Hire first-day covers and 1 cacheted cover franked with 3-cent 4H Club stamp (199061).
Eisenhower, Mrs. Dwight D., Washington, D. C.: Renoir pink peau-de-soie dress and crinoline skirt worn by donor at Inaugural Ball, January 20, 1953 (197397) ; lace wedding dress worn by Mamie Doud when she married Dwight D. Hisenhower July 1, 1916 (200764).
Elbel, Robert E., Bangkok, Thailand: 304 birds, 2 bird alcoholics, and 625 mammals (198018). (See also Defense, U.S. Department of, Department of the Army)
Elliott, Harrison, Arlington, Va.: 10 block prints by J. J. Lankes (201242).
Ellis, Mrs. Marion Durbin, Los Angeles, Calif: 170 crayfishes collected in Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Oregon, and Utah by Dr. and Mrs. Max M. Bilis (200070).
Embick, Lt. Gen. Stanley D., Washington, D. C.: Approximately 1,050 marine and land mollusks from Philippines (201367).
Emerson, Dr. A. E., Chicago, Ill. : 986 termites, including types, from all over the world (200028).
Emerson, Lt. Col. K. C., New York, N. Y.: 12 type lice from various parts of the world (200470).
Enyart, Capt. J. L. Department of, Navy)
Epstein, Leonard, New York, N. Y.: 16 Liberian United Nations stamps (202391).
Escola de Agricultura a Medicina Veterinaria, Cruz das Almas, Bahia, Brazil: 64 plants from Brazil (193989).
Escola Nacional de Agronomia, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: (Through Dr. A. da Costa Lima) 2 paratype wasps and 5 beetles from Brazil (199774, 200821, exchange).
Escuela Agricola Panamericana, Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 5 ferns from Honduras (198706).
Estacion Experimental Agricola, Rio Piedras, P. R.: 4 plants collected in Puerto Rico (201482).
Estacién Experimental Agrondémica, Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: 2 plants collected in Cuba (201195).
(See Defense, Department of the

<<<Page: 84>>>

Etcheverry C., Prof. Maria, Santiago, Chile: 5 moths from South America (200142, exchange).
Evans, Dr. H. E., Ithaca, N. Y.: 5 North American wasps (200462, exchange).
Ewers, John C., Washington, D. C.: 1 pattern of old-style, soft-soled moccasin cut from skin by Holy Pipe Woman, Assiniboin informant for donor, June 1953 (199921).
Fairchild, Dr. Graham B., Panama, Panamé: 44 moth flies and 3 horseflies from Neotropical and Australasian areas (199666).
Farfante, Dr. Isabel Pérez. (See Banco de Fomento Agricola & Industrial de Cuba)
Fawcett, James Waldo, Washington, D. C.: Automatic pistol taken from body of enemy company commander by the South Koreans in 1952 (198813).
Fergus, W. Lee, Glen Ellyn, Ill: 1 eacheted envelope (200728).
Ferguson, Douglas C., Halifax, Nova Scotia: 20 moths from Canada (201659).
Ferguson, Dr. Edward, Jr., Orangeburg, S. C.: 4 type specimens of freshwater ostracods from Orangeburg County, S. C. (198946).
Ferreyra, Dr. Ramon. (See Museo de Historia Natural “Javier Prado’’)
Fessenden, Dr. G. R., Baltimore, Md.: 78 botanical and zoological specimens preserved in plastic by a process developed by donor (198812) ; 18 plants collected in Maryland (202105).
Field, Dr. Henry, Coconut Grove, Fla.: 50 plants and 2 crabs from Florida (199585, 199719); 83 plants collected in Florida by Arthur Kirk (201607, 202330).
Field, Dr. and Mrs. Henry, Coconut Grove, Fla.: 400 marine mollusks, insects, and 11 marine invertebrates from Florida (200471) ; 87 fresh-water mollusks from Maine (200541).
Fiji Department of Agriculture, Suva: 3 plants collected in Fiji (202422, ' exchange).
Fleetwood, Raymond J., Socorro, N. Mex.: 2 bats from New Mexico (197720). (See also Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Fleischer, Dr. M. (See Kirchheimer, Dr. Franz, and Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey)
Fleming, Sir Alexander, London, England: Specimen of the mold from which penicillin was originally made (198819).
Fleming, Dr. C. A., Wellington, New Zealand: 5 Tertiary pelecypods from New Zealand (201072, exchange).
317706—54——6
Florida, University of, Gainesville, Fla.: Grass from Florida (198852) ; 1 cultivated fern (201731) ; (through Dr. A. N. Tissot) 2 thrips, including 1 paratype, from Florida (198876) ; (through Dr. Erdman West) 1 plant from Florida (200703).
Florida State Plant Board, GainesVille, Fla.: (Through H. A. Denmark) 2 land snails from Florida (202346).
Florida State University, Tallahassee, Fla.: 4 nudibranch mollusks from Florida (200846) ; (through Dr. Irene Boliek) 6 mysid crustaceans from Wakulla River, Fla. (200653).
Fondiller, Dr. and Mrs. William, Washington, D. C.: 1 woodcut, “King Saul,” by Jacob Pins (200712).
Forbes, Dr. William T. M., Ithaca, N. Y.: 17 moths from the West Indies (199380).
Ford, Everett J.. Wahiawa, Oahu, T. H.: 34 beetles, including 1 paratype, from Hawaii (201888).
Ford, T., London, England: 8 Microlepidoptera from Hngland (199280).
Foreman, Russeil R., Viti Levu, Fiji: 81 butterflies and moths from Fiji
(202476). Forster, Dr. Walter. (See Zoologische Sammlung des. bayerischen
Staates)
Fosberg, Dr. F. R., Washington, D. C.: 4 plants from Virginia and West Virginia (199698).
Foshag, Dr. William F., Washington, D. C.: “Milagro” votive painting from church of Santo Cristo de los Milagros, San Juan Paragaricultiro, Michoacan, México, collected by donor in 1944 (201019).
Foster, H. Lincoln, Falls Village, Conn.: 1 type fern (199588).
Foster, Mulford B., Orlando, Fla.: 7 plants collected in Panama and Brazil (200752, 201868).
Fowler, Verna A., Salina, Kans. : 215 land mollusks from Salina (198793).
Fox, John A., Floral Park, L.1., N. Y.: 1 stampless cover with special markings, and 1 Cuneiform ca. 2,200 B. C., and 1 Cuneiform signet (202474).
Fox, Lt. Col. John R., Washington, D. C.: 2 ammonites and 1 pelecypod from Cretaceous of Japan (201356).
Franclemont, Dr. J. G., Ithaca, N. Y.: 38 moths from United States (200638).
Freeman, Oliver M., Tryon, N. C.: 42 grasses from North Carolina (198913, 200408) ; 1 fern (199051).
Freeman, Dr. T. N., Ottawa, Ontario: 28 microlepidoptera from Canada (201795).
Freund, F. R., Richmond, Va.: 3 lizards, 4 wormsnakes, 6 diplopods, and 1 scorpion from San Joaquin, Leyte,

<<<Page: 85>>>

Philippine Islands, collected in December 1944 by donor (199919).
Freytag, George F., México, D. F.: 67 land and fresh-water mollusks from México and Wyoming (201295).
Friedrich, Dr. Hans, Mtinchen, Bavaria, Germany: 233 land and freshwater mollusks from Bavaria (201381, exchange).
Frimerkjasalan. ernment of)
Frost, Dr. S. W., State College, Pa.: 1 beetle from United States (200422).
Fujii, Dr. T. (See Tokyo Imperial University)
Fuller, Mrs. Orrin. (See Gibson, Mrs. Nellie Fuller)
Fundacién Miguel Lillo, Tucum4n, Argentina: 246 grasses from Argentina (198912) ; 700 plants from Argentina (199149, 202419, exchange) ; (through Dr. Nicolas Kusnezov) 742 ants, including types, from Argentina (199282) ; 145 ants from Argentina, including 22 types (201505).
Furman, Prof. Deane P., Berkeley, Calif.: 2 type mites from California (199088) .
Galindo, Dr. Pedro. morial Laboratory)
Gamerdinger, Henry, Monaco: philatelic specimens (199276).
Gammell, John. (See Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co.)
Garcia, Dr. Miguel. (See Instituto de Entomologia Sanitaria)
General Biological Supply House, Chicago, Ill.: (Through Blair Coursen) 5 fishes collected in Nigeria (198659).
(See Iceland, Goy-
(See Gorgas Me42
General Electric Co, Richland, Wash.: 2 samples of diatoms (201600). General Services Administration,
Washington, D. C.: 15 assorted, used, foreign stamps (2023875); (through John Croston) nickel ore from Pin Pin mine, New Caledonia (199078).
Geologian Laitos, Helsinki, Finland: (Through Prof. Martti Saksela) 19 rocks from the Orijarvi region, Finland (201902, exchange).
Geologisch Instituut der Universiteit, Amsterdam, Netherlands: (Through Prof. Dr. H. A. Brouwer) 1 type ferrocarpholite from a cobble, west of Tomate, eastern central Celebes (200335, exchange).
Geologische Landesamt, Baden-Wurtemberg, Germany: (Through Dr. Franz Kirchheimer) 7 minerals from Germany (201528, exchange).
Geophysical Laboratory, Washington, D. C.: 2 rhyolites from Novarupta, Alaska; iron knebelite from Japan; jadeite from China (199705).
Germany, Government of, Post-und Fernmeldewesen, Bonn: 4 ‘Freie Wohl-
fahrt’”’ semipostal stamps overprinted “Muster” 1953 (200421).
Getz, Dorothy, San Diego, Calif.: Approximately 518 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from Mauritius, Bast Africa, France, Australia, and the IndoPacifie (195764, 198892, 199171).
Gibson, Mrs. Nellie Fuller, and Fuller, Mrs. Orrin, Arlington, Va.: Needle painting embroidery work by Mrs. Gibson, 1900 (201850).
Gilbert, Bernard H., Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 50 insects, scorpions, tarantula, 1 snake and 1 lizard from Honduras (198654).
Gilbert, Edward E., Freeport, N. Y.: 47 beetles, including weevil larvae from California (198922, exchange).
Ginsburg, Isaac. (See Gordon, Malcolm §.; and Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Given, Bruce B., Nelson, New Zealand: 140 miscellaneous Australian insects (202113).
Glaser, Ezra, Falls Church, Va.: 1 sparrow hawk (201279).
Glaser, John. (See Levey, Harold, and Roebling Collection)
Glasgow, University of, Glasgow, Scotland: (Through Roy A. Crowson) 9 beetle larvae from Scotland (201648, exchange).
Glenn, Murray O., Henry, Ill.: 4 moths from Illinois (200540).
Gloyd, Mrs. Leonora K. (See Illinois State Natural History Survey)
Goldman, Hyman, Washington, D. C.: 1 woodcut, ‘Jerusalem Landscape,” by Jacob Pins (200711).
Goldsmith, E. N., Dayton, Ohio: (Through Dayton Public Library and Museum) 2 fountain pens, late 19th century (199544).
Gookin, Elmer Leroy, Chariton, Iowa: Powder horn of Samuel Gookin, 1767—
1828, great grandfather of donor (201694). Gorbman, Dr. Aubrey. (See Brook-
haven National Laboratory)
Gordon, Malcolm S., Brooklyn, N. Y.: (Through Isaac Ginsburg) 85 fishes and 4 shrimps from México, collected by donor (202460).
Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Panamd, Panama: (Through Dr. Pedro Galindo) 297 mosquitoes, including types, from Panama (202478).
Graham, Judge and Mrs. Samuel Jordan, Takoma Park, Md.: Collection of 125 pieces of antique and modern handmade laces, embroideries, cutwork and drawn work, and small jewel box (202257).
Grant, Mrs. Ulysses S., St. Charles, Ill.: Black silk, lace-covered parasol with a black wooden handle, ca. 1880 (201906).

<<<Page: 86>>>

Grant, William C. Grace E.)
Graves, Maj. and Mrs. James S., Dublin, Ga.: 1 brass mortar and pestle from Tripoli, North Africa (201046, deposit).
Gray, Dr. I. E., Durham, N. C.: 9 shrimps from Beaufort, N. C. (1991386).
Great Britain, Government of: (Through Sir Roger Makins) Collection of 13 British decorations, medals, and campaign stars (201663). British Museum (Natural History), London: 60 ferns from Mount Kenya, Africa, collected by BE. Schelpe and F. White in 1949 (199769, exchange) ; (through Dr. BE. B. Britton) 1 paratype beetle (199070) ; (through Dr. N. B. Marshall) 1 fish from St. Helena (201201, exchange) ; (through G. J. Kerrich) 2 paratypes of parasitic wasps from Europe (210394) ; (through Dr. T. C. S. Morrison-Scott) 186 mammals (202512).
Greenfield, Ray, Honolulu, T. H.: Approximately 228 marine invertebrates (201959).
Greenwood, William, Sydney, New South Wales: 127 plants collected in Fiji (201494).
Gregg, Dr. Robert E., Boulder, Colo. : 76 ants from North America (201512) ; 6 ants from North America (201734, exchange).
Gregg, Dr. Wendell O., Los Angeles, Calif.: 3 land mollusk paratypes from Arizona (200474).
Grenier, Dr. P., Paris, France: 46 miscellaneous blackflies from Europe, North Africa, and Cameroon (200771, exchange).
Gressitt, J. L. Bernice P.)
Grey, Dr. John H., Jr., Williamsburg, Va.: 1 grackle and 1 bluejay (200526).
Griffith, Dr. Francis P., Washington, D. C.: 1 pair of split bifocal spectacles of type first introduced by Benjamin Franklin in 1784 (200339).
Grimes, Virginia Lee, Washington, D. C.: 2 small, turned and lidded, painted, wooden containers of Hungarian provenience, long in possession of family of donor (199045).
Gross, Paul J., Okmulgee, Okla.: 9 U. S. commemorative ‘‘Velvetone” cards (199163, 199272).
Guibé, Dr. Jean. (See Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle)
Guild, William, St. Petersburg, Fla.: 1 cultivated plant (200749).
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Miss.: 1 plant (199217).
Gumpert, Henry. (See Clay-Adams Co., Ine.)
Hacke, Dr. and Mrs. Maurice A., Washington, D. C.: 1 woodcut, ‘““Demonstration,” by Jacob Pins (200710).
(See Pickford, Dr.
(See Bishop Museum,
Hall, Dr. E. Raymond. (See Kansas, University of)
Hall, Evelyn H., Arlington, Va.: (Through Dr. Paul Bartsch) Knitted lace cap of the type worn by elderly women in late 18th century in America (200209).
Hall, Mrs. Linus H., Wallingford, Conn.: Sword carried during War of Revolution by Eliakim Hall of Continental Army (200138).
Halstead, Dr. Bruce W. (See School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine.)
Hambleton, James I. (See Agriculture, U. 8. Department of, Horticultural Crops Research Branch)
Hambley, William A., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 180 uniforms, accessories, and assorted medals and decorations of German army, navy, air force, and Hitler Arbeiters (202500).
Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 26 philatelic specimens (199160, 199804, 200722, 200734, 2024386).
Hand, Dr. Cadet, Berkeley, Calif.: 6 marine invertebrates (199320).
Handley, Charles O., Jr., Falls Church, Va. : 2 big-eared bats from West Virginia (201043).
Handschin, Dr. E. (See Basel Museum of Natural History)
Hanes, Clarence R., Schoolcraft, Mich.: 11 grasses from Michigan (200407).
Hankins, J. Haden, Richmond, Va.: 1 sample of diatom from Virginia (199582).
Haque, Mohsenul. Geological Survey of)
Hardy, Dr. D. Elmo, Honolulu, T. H.: 1 fly from North America (201017) ; 5 flies, including 2 paratypes, from Australia and Oahu (201507). (See also Adachi, Marion)
Hardy, Jerry David, Baltimore, Md.: Miscellaneous reptiles and amphibians, collected in Cuba by donor (202360).
Harmer, Bernard, New York, N. Y.: 2 first-day covers of Queen Elizabeth II Coronation issue (198919).
Harper, Dr. Francis, Mount Holly, N. J.: 100 plants collected in Ungava (202459).
Harry, Robert R. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Hartmann, Ratibor, Panama, Panama: Short-tailed shrew from Volcdin de Chiriqui, Panama (198723).
Hartwig, Dr. E. K. (See College of Agriculture)
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.: Arnold Arboretum: 688 plants collected in Dominican Republic by R. A. Howard (201498, exchange). Gray Herbarium: 1 fern (198685) ; 791 miscellaneous plants (199046, exchange) ;
(See Pakistan,

<<<Page: 87>>>

(through Dr. R. A. Howard) 21 plants from Dominican Republic (199500) ; 3 West Indian phanerogams collected by Dr. R. A. Howard (199697). Museum of Comparative Zoology: 1 Hainan night heron (201608, exchange); 18 freshwater mollusks from Alabama (202083, exchange) ; approximately 2,500 marine and fresh-water mollusks from New England (202177) ; (through Dr. W. L. Brown) 82 ants from Australia and China (199222, exchange); 31 ants from Nearctic and West Indian regions (201245) ; (through William C. Schroeder) 6 fishes including 4 types (199661, exchange) ; (through Dr. William J. Clench) 1,000 miscellaneous mollusks, including types (200587, exchange) ; (through Dr. Joseph Bequaert) 5 land mollusks from Colombia and Pertti (200976, exchange) ; (through Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann) 2 marine _ invertebrates (201782) ; (through Dr. Harry B. Whittington) 15 brachiopods from Europe and the United States (201816, exchange) ; 14 brachiopods from Germany and Belgium (201817, exchange).
Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Curitiba, Paranda, Brazil: 78 plants from Brazil (198800, 199754).
Hattori, Dr. Sinske, Nichinan, Japan: 60 Japanese cryptogams (200632, exchange).
Hawaii, Territory of, Board of Comnussioners of Agriculture and Forestry,
Honolulu: (Through Dr. Vernon UW. Brock) 1 gorgonian collected in 25 fathoms off Keahole Point, Hawaii (1987386).
Hawkes, Ruth. (See Patch, William Young)
Hawley, Mrs. C. H. Theodore J.) Haworth, Edwin P., Kansas City, Mo.: 31 philatelic specimens (200720). Hayes, Doris. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Forest Service) Hayvanat Enstitiist, Istanbul, Turkey: (Through Dr. Curt Kosswig) 1 fish from the Red Sea (201084). Health, Education and Welfare, U.S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: Public Health Service: 107 birds from northern Alaska, collected by Dr. Laurence Irving (200829); (through Dr. Eloise B. Cram) 2 fresh-water mollusks from Brazil (195095) ; (through Dr. William L. Jellison) 18 fresh-water mollusks from Montana (198994); (through Dr. Harry D. Pratt) 3 type mites from United States (199069) ; (through Dr. Glen M. Kohls) 4 paratypes of ticks from South America (199165); (through John Krog) 7 crustaceans from Goose Lake near Anchorage, Alaska (199472) ; (through
(See Wint, Gen.
Helen L. Trembley) 187 mosquitoes reared in lab colony (199672) ; (through Dr. Elmer G. Berry) 2 fresh-water mollusks from Portugal (199809) ; (through Dr. Carl O. Mohr) 4 nematodes collected from rats in Sansapor, New Guinea (200007) ; (through W. H. W. Komp) 2 mosquito larvae from North America (2000381) ; (through Dr. Everett L. Schiller) 6 crustaceans collected on Kodiak Island, Alaska, 1953 (200047) ; (through Douglas i. Hilliard) 480 fresh-water mollusks from Chena . River, Alaska (200485) ; (through M. Thomas Bartram) 2 pomfret fishes from southern Japan (201233) ; (through Dr. Robert Rausch) 12 mammals from Alaska (2023853).
Heatley, Dr. N.G. (See Dunn School of Pathology, Sir William)
Hedgpeth, Joel W., La Jolla, Calif: 7 marine nudibranch mollusks from Texas (198786).
Heinmuller, John P. V., New York, N. Y.: Official certification and stamps of Philippine Government presented to Comdr. Francesco de Pinedo on his around-the-world flight, 1925 (199865).
Heintz, Prof. Anatol. (See Paleontologisk Museum)
Helfert Family, Howard W., Kensington, Md.: French court suit, ca. 18151840, consisting of black velvet coat, silk waistcoat, plush trousers, and a black felt bicorne hat trimmed with white ostrich (199068).
Henbest, Lloyd G., Washington, D. C.: 1 rare trilobite from Lecompton formation of Kansas (202868).
Henderson, Mrs. Marie. Johann G. and Christine.)
Henry, Dr. J. M., Nokomis, Fla.: 1 phanerogam from Florida (200161).
Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai, Brazil: 52 plants from Brazil (199416) ; 154 Brazilian grasses, collected by Rev. P. Raulino Reitz (201348) ; (through Rev. P. Raulino Reitz) 520 plants from Brazil (199591, 200403).
Herbert, Rev. Dr. Arthur, Newark, N. J.: 20 Clara Maas Memorial Lutheran Hospital 1953 Christmas seals (199870).
Hercules Powder Co., Wilmington, Del.: 81 specimens and 35 photographs showing production of naval stores chemical products by solvent extraction from yellow pine wood (202078).
Hermanoff, Irvin. (See Winokur, Dr. William. )
Herzog, Johann G. and Christine (deceased): (Through Mrs. Marie Henderson) Danish gold locket, engagement present from Mrs. Marie Henderson’s father, Johann G. Herzog, to her mother; also gold-filled brooch, pre-
(See Herzog,

<<<Page: 88>>>

sented to Mrs. Henderson’s mother by her parents (201693).
Hess, Frank L., Bethesda, Md. : 3 minerals from Utex mine, near Moab, Utah (199310). (See also Dix, George P., Jr.)
Heuberg, Alfred. (See Inter-Ocean Trading Co.)
Hiatt, Dr. Robert W., Honolulu, T. H.: 1,584 marine invertebrates, 4 lots tunicates, echinoderms, mollusks, and turtles collected on Arno Atoll, Marshall Islands, and Yap Island, Caroline Islands (195038).
Hibbard, Dr. Claude W. igan, University of)
Highbarger, Robert, Arlington, Va.: 1 prehnite and 1 apophyllite on prehnite from near Centreville, Va (199375, 199770, exchange) ; 2 specimens fluorite ore, Victory mine, Cave-in-Rock, Ill. (202171).
Highlands Biological Station, Highlands, N. C.: (Through Thelma Howell) 6 fresh-water mussels from Chatooga River, Ga. (198794).
Hildebrand, Henry. (See Texas, University of)
Hilliard, Douglas K. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Department of, Public Health Service)
Hinton, George, Saltillo, México: 1 lot grossularite crystals from near Lake Jaco, Coahuila, México (199860, exchange).
Hitchcock, Dr. Harold B., Middlebury, Vt.: 73 small mammals (197528); 7 bats and 1 mouse from Ontario (199524, 200473).
Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottesville, Va. : 534 crustaceans, including 6 types (198671, 199558). (See also Beck, William M., Jr.; Cumming, Robert B.; and Virginia, University of)
Hodges, Ronald, Lansing, Mich.: 2 butterflies from United States (199709).
Hodziewich, Stanley J., Radiant Valley, Md.: 17 philatelic specimens (199806, 200727).
Hoffman, Dr. Glenn L., Grand Forks, N. Dak.: 142 land and fresh-water mollusks from Minnesota and North Dakota (1985838, 200602).
Hoffman, Richard L., Blacksburg, Va.: 18 insects and 226 fresh-water mollusks from Virginia (199284, 200474, 201732).
Holland, Dr. C. G., Fresno, Calif.: Potsherds, stone, shell, and metal artifacts from site Au-35-M, East Mound, Augusta County, Virginia, excavated May-June 1952 by Drs. Holland, Clifford Evans, and Betty J. Meggers (199955).
Hollander, Lawrence. (See Winokur, Dr. William)
Hollowell, Dr. E. A., Washington, D.C.: Voleanic dust from July 10, 1953,
(See Mich-
eruption Alaska (201354).
Holme, Dr. N. A., Plymouth, England : 7 marine mollusks from Europe (199112, exchange).
Holt, Dr. Perry C., Johnson City, Tenn.: 1 type worm from Sinking Creek, Giles County, Va. (200606) ; 1 holotype of branchiobdellid worm (200832).
Holthuis, Dr. L. B., Leiden, Netherlands: 35 fresh-water isopods and 26 mollusks (196269).
Honda, Dr. Masaji. versity of)
Hoogstraal, Dr. Harry, Cairo, Egypt: 45 ticks, including 32 types, from Madagasear (199164). (See also Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army)
Hoover, Donald B., Cleveland Heights, Ohio: Calcite specimen from Pugh quarry, Bowling Green, Ohio (201925).
Hopkins, George K., Hammond, Ind. : 5 bank cheeks bearing U. S. documentary revenue Stamps (199509) ; 3 U.S. documentary revenue stamps and affidavit bearing 2-dollar American Consular Service fee stamp (202469).
Horlbeck, Mrs. F. H., Charleston, S. C.: 1 spider and egg sac from South Carolina (200010).
Heshizaki, Mrs. Barbara Joe, Fort Hood, Tex.: 45 cultivated ferns (200265).
Hotchkiss, Neil. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service.)
Hottes, Dr. F. C., Grand Junction Colo.: 13 slides of type aphids from United States (200027, 201287, 201644). (See also Bradley, Dr. G. A.)
Houck, Mrs. W. E., Findlay, Ohio: 1 nursing bottle, tin with cork stopper and long sucking tube, made by John Sanner at Mount Blanchard, Ohio, 1880 (199537).
Houregq, Victor Pierre, Paris, France: 16 Cretaceous cephalopods from Madagasear (201635).
Houston, Mrs. William, Arlington, Va.: 1 British infant nursing bottle (201796).
Howard, M. J., Eagle Pass, Tex.: 12 ferns from Texas (200601).
Howard, Dr. R. A. (See Harvard University, Gray Herbarium)
Howden, Dr. Henry F., Raleigh, N. C.: 6 beetles from United States (199071).
Howell, Thelma. (See Highlands Biological Station)
Hubbard, John C. (See Blackmer, Mrs. Ania)
Hubbs, Dr. Clark. versity of)
of Mount Spur,
(See Tokyo, Uni-
(See Texas, Uni

<<<Page: 89>>>

Hubert, Dr. Alexander A., Hamilton, Mont.: 31 flies from United States (201514).
Hubricht, Leslie, Danville, Va.: 3 type mollusks from Haywood County, N. C. (200303) ; approximately 23 marine invertebrates (200369).
Hull, Dr. Thomas G. (See American Medical Association)
Humes, Dr. Arthur G., Boston, Mass. : 142 copepods, including 62 types (199341) ; 177 type copepods from St. Andrews, New Brunswick (201549).
Hungarian People’s Republic, Legation of, Washington, D. C.: 8 values of “Native Dress” postage issue (202386).
Hungerford, Dr. H. B., Lawrence, Kans.: 11 spongilla flies from United States (201884). (See also Kansas, University of)
Hurson, J. V. ward N.)
Hussey, Dr. R. F., Gainesville, Fla.: 6 bugs (199670) ; 1 bug from United States (201736, exchange); 2 paratypes of bugs from South America (202249), exchange).
Hutton, Mary A., and Hutton, Rose, Gaithersburg, Md.: Dotted swiss dress and separate sleeves, embroidered lawn cape, and 2 matron’s caps, woman’s corset, boots, beaver bonnet, and brown silk calash, early and middle of 19th century (1995384).
Hutton, Rose. A.)
Hygeia Nursing Bottle Co., Buffalo, N. Y.: (Through W. M. Decker) 4 nursing bottles, 1900, 1916, 1941 and 1949 (198722).
Iceland, Government of, Reykjavik: (Through Frimerkjasalan) 55 philatelic specimens (199864, 202426).
Idrobo, Dr. Jesis M. (See Instituto de Ciencias Naturales)
Illinois, University of, Urbana, IIl1.: 7 grasses from Illinois (200331); 104 miscellaneous United States plants (201870), exchange); (through Dr. Hobart M. Smith) 56 type North American amphibians and reptiles (2013877. exchange).
Iilinois State Natural History Survey, Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr. Lewis J. Stannard) 12 thrips from Illinois (201286, exchange) ; (through Dr. H. H. Ross) 37 spongilla flies from United States (201509); (through Mrs. Leonora K. Gloyd) 3 spongilla flies from United States (202334).
Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture, Trinidad, B. W. I.: 1 phanerogam (1995380).
Imperial Oil, Ltd., Calgary, Alberta: (Through Dr. C. H. Crickmay) 10 Upper Devonian brachiopods from
(See Wentworth, Ed-
(See Hutton, Mary
Northwest Territories, Canada (200233, exchange).
India, Government of, Calcutta: Geological Survey: 16 brachiopods from Cambrian, Devonian, Permian, and surassie rocks of India and Pakistan (201289, exchange). Zoological Survey: (Through Dr. H. C. Ray) 4 freshwater mollusks from Inlé Lake, Burma (201066, exchange).
Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Sweden: 34 Swedish philatelic specimens (199067, 199867, 200716); 15 special Swedish cancellations (202468).
Inger, Robert F. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Ingley, James M., Washington, D. C.: 1 albino crab from off Smith’s Island, Chesapeake Bay (199237).
Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co., Inspiration, Ariz.: 24 specimens of copper ore (198916).
Institut Betanique, Montreal, Quebee: (Through Dr. Jules Brunel) 2 bryozoans. from Cuba (197517).
Institute Francais d’Afrique Noire, Dakar, French West Africa: (Through Dr. Théodore Monod) 86 West African crabs (198434, exchange).
Institute of Jamaica, Science Museum, Kingston, Jamaica: 86 plants from Jamaica (198755, 198761, 198762) ; 2 Jamaican ferns (198806, exchange).
Institute of Systematic Botany, Uppsala, Sweden: (Through Dr. Rolf Santesson) 18 lichens from Hurope (200450, exchange).
Instituto Aggeu Magalhaes, Recife, Brazil: (Through Dr. Frederico Simoes Barbosa) 9 fresh-water mollusks from Brazil (200978).
Instituto Agronémico, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 24 grasses from Brazil (198784).
Instituto Agronoémico do Sul, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: 20 grasses from Brazil (202190).
Instituto Agronémico do Norte, Belém, Pard, Brazil: 74 plants from Brazil (198759, 200448).
Instituto Botanico, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. Leandro Aristéguieta) 31 Venezuelan ferns (199601).
Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, San Isidor, Argentina: 185 plants from Argentina (199580, exchange).
Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota, Colombia: 40 plants (198753) ; (through Dr. Jestis M. Idrobo) 1 cultivated legume (200406); 4 plants (200750).
Instituto de Entomologia Sanitaria, Buenos Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr. Miguel Garcia) 2 paratype Argentine flies (199772).

<<<Page: 90>>>

Instituto de Sanidad Vegetal, Laboratorio Central de Acridologia, Manuel de Pinazo, Argentina: (Through Dr. José Liebermann) 14 grasshoppers from South America (198803).
Instituto Geobiologico “La Salle” de Candas, Pérto Alegra, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: 16 plants (200815, exchange).
Instituto Nacional de Higiene, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. Ignacio Ortiz) Helminths from Venezuela (198903).
Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C.: 8 plants from New Mexico (199032, 199254) ; nest of spotted oriole and 2 trunk skeletons of whooping crane (199075) ; 1 Bewick’s wren (201386) ; 1,864 bird skins from various parts of North America (202457) ; 75 mammals (202479) ; (through Raymond J. Fleetwood) harvest mouse from Colorado (198699) ; (through Stewart Springer) approximately 457 marine invertebrates, and 10 mollusks collected in Gulf of Mexico (198858) ; 7 chub mackerel from east coast of Florida (199253) ; 207 fishes collected by the Oregon in the Gulf of Mexico (199475) ; (through Allen J. Duvall) 91 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from crops of mourning doves, Florida and Louisiana (198948) ; (through Joseph H. King) a bird from Hawaii (198972) ; (through Isaac Ginsburg) 35 fishes from Japan (199054) ; (through Oscar Sette and Robert R. Harry) 2 fishes, 1 holotype, of the family Paralepidae, from Central Pacific (199289) ; (through Roland L. Wigley) 1380 crustaceans, 1 lot brachiopods, 7 echinoderms, and 22 mollusks, from New England waters (199557) ; “mouth parts” of a holothurian from Halifax Bay, Nova Scotia (199876) ; (through Dr. J. L. Buckley) 4 marine invertebrates from walrus stomach, and echinoderms (1997387); (through Neil Hotchkiss) 2 phanerogams from Chesapeake and Ohio Canal (200158); (through Dr. Philip A. Butler) 51 land and marine mollusks from near Pensacola, Fla. (200318, 200256) ; 1 marine mollusk in an oyster shell from Pensacola, Fla. (201193); (through Isaac Ginsburg and John B., Colton, Jr.) 2 fishes from 140 fathoms off Massachusetts, September 9, 1953, by Albatross III (200633); (through Gustaf Sundstrom) 7 fishes from 50-100 miles off the eoast of Rhode Island (201611). Geological Survey: 83 fresh-water and marine mollusks from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska (198022) ; 3 minerals from Petaea district, Rio Arriba County, N. Mex. (198316) ; 10 slides, approximately 5,000 Hocene radiolaria from Saipan, Mari-
anas Islands (200087) ; 3 pascoites from Bitter Creek mine, Paradox Valley, Colo. (201541) ; 4 fossil trilobites from Ordovician of Bolivia (201636) ; holotype of rare Ordovician trilobite from a deep well in Florida (201881); 11 Cretaceous pelecypods and 2 Cretaceous ammonites (201894, 201924) ; 5 ulexites and 9 howlites from Wentworth, Nova Scotia, collected by Dr. Waldemar T. Schaller (202107); 219 Pliocene land and fresh-water mollusks from Nebraska (202274) ; 1 type faustite from Copper King mine, Maggie Creek district, Eureka County, Nev. (202285) ; 1 metatorbernite from Castle Dome, Ariz. (202498); (through Ruth Todd) 6 valves of an Upper Triassic pelecypod from Pasco, Pert, collected by R. F. Johnson in 1952 (199290); (through Robert H. Stewart) 6 gorgonians from near Sarasota, Fla. (199333) ; (through Dr. W. P. Woodring) 15 fresh-water mollusks from Colombia (199424) ; toothed fossil bone of unknown osteichthyian fish from Upper Oligocene San Sebastian formation near San Sebastian, Puerto Rico, collected by Dr. W. P. Woodring and C. A. Kay, 1954 (201907) ; (through Dr. Preston H. Cloud, Jr.) 3 fossil fish from Triassic Shublik formation, Colville Valley of northern Alaska, collected by W. W. Patton, Jr. (200220) ; 4 fossil fish specimens, collected in August 1950 by Fred S. Honkala from Phosphoria formation on east side of Taylor Creek, Clark County, Idaho (200520); 19 land and fresh-water snails from Washington (201620) ; complete fossil fish skeleton in concretion from Upper Cretaceous sediments in State of Ceara, Brazil, collected by Emerson I. Brown, December 1953 (202371) ; (through Dr. John B. Reeside, Jr.) approximately 25 fish and reptile specimens collected by Dr. John B. Reeside, Jr., and party in August 1953 from Cretaceous Mowry formation in Park County, Wyo. (200222) ; (through Sherman K. Neuschel) 1 Japanese twin crystal of quartz from Otome mine, Yamanashi prefecture, Japan (200225) ; (through Dr. W. H. Bradley) 15 potash ores from France and New Mexico, 11 various saline minerals from Germany and New Mexico (200589) ; 8 mineral specimens, including 2 types, from Utah, California, Oregon, and North Carolina (202197) ; (through F. Stearns MacNeil) 56 marine mollusks from Sagami Wan, Japan (200825) ; (through D. B. Krinsley) 6 marine mollusks from Pleistocene of northern Greenland (201018) ; (through Dr. M. Fleischer) 14 rocks from Magnet Cove, Ark. (202461). National Park Service: 10 plants collected in Virginia by Paul G.

<<<Page: 91>>>

Favour, Jr. (202230) ; (through John O. | 1 No. 11 “Rapid-Fire”’ suppository ma-
Cook) 47 biting midges from Camp Verde, Ariz. (199673) ; (through Arthur Stupka) 11 big-eared bats from Tennessee (200789).
International Harvester Co., Chicago, Tll.: Patent model of early mowing maehine (201061).
Inter-Ocean Trading Co., New York, N. Y.: (Through Alfred Heuberg) 5 minerals from Brazil (201040).
Iowa, State University of, Iowa City, Iowa: (Through Dr. Walter Thietje) 3,694 fishes (199539, deposit).
Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa: 68 plants, mostly from Iowa (199050, exchange); 220 plants from Alaska (201059) ; (through Herbert G. Pulsifer) 2 plants (200818).
Irwin, H. S., Atkinson Field, British Guiana: 101 plants collected in British Guiana (200018, 201207, 201224).
Isbell, V. D., Saigon, Indo-China: 1 blindsnake from Saigon, Indo-China (199340).
Israel Philatelic Agency in America, Inc, New York, N. Y.: (Through Jacques Minkus) First-day cover of Israel Rabbi Moshe Ben Maimon commemorative envelope and stamp (199273).
Ives, Ronald L., Williamsville, N. Y.: 117 salt marsh snails from Sonora, México (200848).
Jackson, Ralph W., Cambridge, Md.: 20 marine mollusk paratypes from Maryland (197899).
Jacobs, Burleigh, Wauwatosa, Wis.: Autographed American Philatelic Society convention cacheted cover with convention cancellation (199866).
Jacobson, Morris K., Rockaway Beach, N. Y.: Approximately 3,000 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from the United States and Cuba (200542, exchange) ; 37 land snails from Cuba (202255, exchange).
James, Dr. M. T. (See Washington State College)
Jardim Botanico, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 38 plants from Brazil (199417) ; 43 plants collected in Brazil (201036, exchange).
Le Jardin Botanique de Montréal, Montréal, Quebec: 120 Canadian plants (199048, exchange).
Jardin Botanico de Madrid, Madrid, Spain: 45 plants from Spain (201060, exchange).
Jeffries, Frank L., Bladensburg Md.: 37 land and fresh-water mollusks from Georgia and Maryland (200865).
Jellison, Dr. William L. (See Health, Hducation, and Welfare, U. 8S. Department of)
Jenkins Laboratories, Auburn, N. Y.: (Through F. J. Stokes Machine Co.)
chine (199421).
Jenks, James L., Jr. Co.)
Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominican Republic: 56 plants from the Dominican Republic (199189, 200159, 200218, 201231).
Johns Hopkins University, Medical School, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Dr. Leon Rosen) 1 Philippine macaque (200035) .
Johnson, Dr. Frank H., Princeton, N. J.: “‘Bacterial Luminescence,” honorable mention in 2d Annual Photography-in-Science Competition of 1948 (201996).
(See Sanborn
Johnson, Adm. Jesse M. (See American Air Mail Society) Johnson, Mrs. Lucile Maughan,
American Fork, Utah: 8 type bee flies from Utah (201649, exchange).
Johnson, Phyllis T. (See Defense, Department of, Department of the Army)
Johnstone, Mrs. Harry Inge, Mobile, Ala.: 22 marine mollusks from Gulf of Mexico (200340).
Jokelson, Paul, New York, N. Y.: Sulphide paperweight made by Christalleries de Baccarat, France, December 1953—January 1954 (201359).
Jones, Dr. Frank Morton, Wilmington, Del.: 2,940 miscellaneous insects from Martha’s Vineyard, Mass. (199708) ; 818 skippers from North America (201500).
Jones, Joseph S. (See Alabama Department of Conservation)
Jones, Joseph W., New York, N. Y.: Speedometer, taximeter, live-map meter, hub odometer, and 3 record matrices (200834).
Jones, Warren R., Erongaricuaro, México: 2 specimens of sal ammoniac
from voleano of Paricutin, México (202468).
Kaader, Roy G. (See Wellons Gallery )
Kahn, Mrs. Elizabeth L., Washington, D. C.: Woodcut, “Head,” by Jacob Pins (201655).
Kanazawa University, Kanazawa, Japan: (Through Prof. Genkei Musamune) 88 Japanese grasses (201228, exchange).
Kannowski, P. B. (See Michigan, University of)
Kano, Dr. Rokuro, Tokyo, Japan: 4 paratype flies from Japan (199887).
Kansas, University of, Lawrence, Kans.: 120 Kansas plants (199076, exchange) ; 63 fishes collected mostly in México (202424, exchange); (through Dr. Frank B. Cross) 14 fresh-water fishes, including 2 paratypes, from Kansas (1991538, exchange); through

<<<Page: 92>>>

Dr. Rufus Thompson) 1 sample diatom material from Kansas (199589); (through Dr. Rollin H. Baker) 1 plant from México (200217); (through Dr. H. B. Hungerford) 3 spongilla flies with cocoons from United States (202112) ; (through Dr. KE. Raymond Hall) 9 small mammals from Kansas (202504, exchange).
Kass, Mr. and Mrs. Garfield I., Washington, D. C.: Woodcut, “Trees in Sunrise,” by Jacob Pins (201657).
Kassing, Mrs. David O., Tulsa, Okla. : Miscellaneous collection of reptiles and amphibians from Oklahoma and Michigan (202314).
Katsaras, Nick, Bergenfield, N. J.: 2 marine mollusks from Panama (199209,
exchange). Kausel, Dr. Eberhard, Santiago, Chile: 20 Chilean phanerogams (199413).
Kay, Dr. Marshall, New York, N. Y.: 3 brachiopods from Permian of Russia (200707).
Kenda, Joze, Slovenia, Yugoslavia: (Through D. G. Wyant) 1 cinnabar mineral from Idria mine, Slovenia, Yugoslavia (200760).
Kenny, Finbar, New York, N. Y.: 3cent embossed United Nations envelope (199805). (See also Stolow, J. & H.)
Kephart, John E., Wheaton, Ill.: 2 Australian florins, 1927 and 1935, and 2 New Hebrides 5-franc notes (198917).
Kerrich, G. J. (See British Government, British Museum (Natural History) )
Kiener, Dr. Walter, Lincoln, Nebr.: 92 eryptogams (199532).
Killiany, Mrs. Anne, Millington, N. J.: Model of Ga cargo boat from delta of Volta River, Gold Coast, Africa, and 8 poisoned arrows (200016).
King, Charles, Brisbane, Australia: 8 butterflies from Australia (200824, exchange).
King, Joseph E. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
King, Mr. and Mrs. Milton W., Washington, D. C.: 1 woodcut entitled ‘‘OneLegged Beggar,” by Jacob Pins (200411).
King, Dr. Willard V. (See Defense, U. 8. Department of, Department of the Army)
Kirchheimer, Dr. Franz, BadenWurtemberg, Germany: (Through Dr. M. Fleischer) 1 specimen of uraninite in granite from Sophia mine, Wittichen, Baden, Germany (199766, exchange). (See also Geologische Landesamt)
Kirk, Dr. Edwin, Washington, D. C.: 16 glass beads collected from Haida village of Howkan, on Long Island, Prince of Wales Group, southeast
Alaska, in 1917 (199182); redware pottery money-box in shape of bell, made in Thomaston, Maine (201048).
Kirk, Russell. (See Moul, David)
Kissinger, D. J.. Washington, D. C.: 67 beetles from México (200535).
Knight, Comdr. Kenneth L. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Navy Depariment )
Knipscheer, Dr. H. C. G., Munich, Germany: 5 Foraminifera from Eocene of Bavaria (199594, exchange).
Koch, Alice E., Long Island, N. Y.: First-day cover of Yugoslavian Esperanto stamp (199461).
Koch, H. J., Johannesburg, Union of South Africa: 28 marine mollusks from Portuguese Hast Africa (201459).
Kohls, Dr. Glen M., Hamilton, Mont. : 96 miscellaneous bugs from New Guinea (201152). (See also Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
Komarov Botanical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the U. S.S. R.,, Leningrad: 350 plants, issues 71-76 of the “Herbarium of the Flora of the USSR” (201872, exchange).
Komp, W. H. W. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
Kopf, Max J., Buffalo, N. Y.: 300 invertebrate fossils from the Wanakah shale of New York (200965).
Kouvo, Dr. Olavi, Outokumpu, Finland: 1 kyanite from Koli, eastern Finland (201131, exchange).
Kozioff, Dr. Eugene N., Portland, Oreg.: 8 type ostracods from Harney County, Oreg. (198857); 3 slides containing 22 type oligochaete worms from Washington, California, and British Columbia (201089).
Kosswig, Dr. Curt. Enstitiisti)
Krause, Mr. and Mrs. Paul H., Washington, D. C.: Color woodeut, “Joshua Bidding the Sun Stand Still,” by Jakob Steinhardt (200967).
Krauss, N. L. H. Honolulu, T. H.: Approximately 406 miscellaneous insects and 2 Crustacea from Florida, Puerto Rico, Trinidad, Cuba, and Haiti (198673) ; approximately 1,055 miscellaneous insects from Panama (198947) ; 2 Mexican plants (199218).
Krinsky, Ben. (See Krinsky, William H.)
Krinsky, William H., Brooklyn, N. Y.: (Through Ben Krinsky) 8 philatelic specimens (202022).
Krinsley, D. B. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey)
Krog, John. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
(See Hayvanat

<<<Page: 93>>>

Krombein, Karl K., Arlington, Va.: 163 wasps, representing 48 species, from Westmoreland State Park, Va. (199087) ; 118 wasps collected in Lost River State Park, W. Va., in 1953 (201885) .
Kuehne, Robert, San Marcos, Tex.: 1,155 fishes, 103 shrimps, 1 crayfish, and approximately 500 copepods from Guadalupe River, Tex. (195503).
Kummel, Dr. Bernhard, Cambridge, Mass.: 9 Silurian brachiopods from
Cornwallis Island, Arctic Canada (201880). Kuno, Dr. Hisashi. (See Tokyo, Uni-
versity of)
Kuns, Capt. Merle L., Frederick, Md.: 4 lots of reptiles and amphibians, 2 bats, 111 marine invertebrates, and 106 mollusks from Mona Island, West Indies (198969, 200146).
Kuntz, Lt. Comdr. Robert E., Bethesda, Md.: 2 bats from New Hebrides (202480). (See also Defense, U.S. Department of, Department of the Navy)
Kusnezoy, Dr. Nicolas, Tucumdén, Argentina: 110 Argentine ants, including types (200534, exchange). (See Fundacion Miguel Lillo)
Kutter, Dr. H., Bern, Switzerland: 72 ants from all over the world, including 10 types (199778, exchange).
Kuzell, C. R. (See Phelps Dodge Corp.)
Kyoto Imperial University, Shirahama, Japan: (Through Dr. Huzio Utinomi) 4 alcyonarian corals from
Seto Marine Biological Laboratory (200676). Lacey, Mrs. Trammell C., Nacog-
doches, Tex.: 1 plant (199958).
Laird, Dr. Marshall. (See Royal New Zealand Air Force Station)
Lambremont, Edward N. (See Tulane University)
Lame, Prof. C.C. (See Stewart, Melvin)
Lamm, Donald W., Mozambique, Africa : 107 bird skins from Mozambique (201788) .
Lamore, D., Greenbelt, Md.: 2 wasps and 2 hornets from France (199420).
Landmarks Society of Alexandria, Inc., Alexandria, Va.: (Through Stabler-Leadbeater Apothecary Shop) 38 early American nursing bottles (200774).
Lang, Walter B., Washington, D. C.: 1 lot altered pieces of meteoritic material from Odessa, Ector County, Tex. (202369).
Larrabee, Ted. vin)
Lascoff, Dr. Frederick D., New York, N. Y¥.: 1 wooden mortar and pestle said to have been used by Maj. Gen. Henry
(See Stewart, Mel-
Knox during American Revolution (201820); 1 19th century leech jar (201821, loan).
Latham, Roy, Orient, N. Y.: 90 land mollusks from Long Island, N. Y. (200911).
Latham, Dr. V. A., Chicago, Ill.: 12 samples of diatoms (198757, exchange).
Lawrence, Mrs. Frederick P., East Liverpool, Ohio: Woman’s purse made by Chinese, acculturated (200584).
Lawton, Sarah R., Washington, D. C.: Brown silk dress, ca. 1846, which belonged to Jane T. Bradley, of Washington, D. C. (199665).
Lederle Laboratories Division of American Cyanamide Co., New York, N. Y.: (Through F. L. Murphy) Package of Aureomycin capsules, test tube of original soil from which Aureomyecin was isolated, 5 petri dishes of Streptomyces aureofaciens vs. 5 micro-organisms (198821).
Lee, Donald E., Stanford, Calif.: 1 pyrophanite from Fujikawa Kuga-gun, Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan (198792).
Leech, Dr. Hugh B. (See California Academy of Sciences)
Lekagul, Dr. Boonsong, Bangkok, Thailand: 7 mammals, fishes, 4 reptiles and amphibians, 16 crabs, and i leech, from Thailand (196446).
Leonhardt, Dr. Brigitte G., Manila, P. I: 5 beetles from Philippine Islands and Europe (198889, exchange).
Lepigre, Dr. A., Alger, Algiers: 6 ladybugs from North Africa (199511).
Leslie, Robert, Chalet Tejano, Guatemala: 1 jade from near Manzanal, Motagua River Valley, Guatemala (201238).
Letkemann, Herkus W. V., Washington, D. C.: 1 Azores chaffinch (201014).
Levey, Harold. (See Roebling Collection)
Levey, Harold, and Glaser, John, Baltimore, Md.: 1 apophyllite from the Fairfax quarry, near Centreville, Va. (199704).
Levin, Benjamin, Boston, Mass.: 1 block print, “Mt. Carmel,” by Mordechai Ayniel (199707).
Lewin, Dr. Ralph A. (See National Research Council of Canada)
Lewis, Keith. (See Eastman Kodak Co.)
Lewis, Richard W., Jr. ford, Harvey D.)
Liberian Philatelic Agency, New York, N. Y.: 54 Liberian philatelic specimens (2024838).
Liebermann, Dr. José. tuto de Sanidad Vegetal)
Lieftinck, Dr. M. A., Bogor, Indonesia: 16 wasps from Indonesia (199964, exchange).
(See Wille-
(See Insti

<<<Page: 94>>>

Lilly Research Laboratories, Indianapolis, Ind.: Bottle of antibiotic Erythromycin (198963).
Limbaugh, Conrad, La Jolla, Calif.: 108 marine invertebrates collected from kelp beds off La Jolla (201781).
Link, Edwin A., Binghamton, N. Y.: Pewter teapot recovered from wreck of British frigate Looe lost on Florida Keys, February 5, 1744, and bronze ship’s bell from wreck of unidentified ship on Florida Keys (199596).
Livingston, Col. J. J., Alexandria, Va.: 12 miscellaneous minerals, rocks, and ores from Korea and Japan (202175).
Locklin, C., St. Petersburg, Fla.: Brass chandelier, 1 wooden fuse block and 18 Thomson-Houston base lamps (199959) ; kerosene lamp with vaporizer (200208).
Locklin, Charles R., Pontiac, Mich.: 2 mollusks, and 1 bird skin from Gulf of Mexico, off Florida (202481).
Logan, Hugh B., Inverness, Calif.: 2 cultivated ferns (200836).
Long Island Girl Scout Stamp Club, New York, N. Y.: (Through Mrs. Leona Pecha) 3,927 assorted stamps for special exhibit April 14 to May 15, 1954 (202341, loan).
Lorenz, Charles. (See National Tuberculosis Association )
Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, La.: 1 fern from Louisiana (201730).
Lowe, Dr. Charles H., Jr. zona, University of)
Lowengrund, Margaret, New York, N. Y.: 29 prints for special exhibition April 1954 (201638, loan).
Lowenstein, Ernst, New York, N. Y.: 2,443 Bolivian airmail stamps and covers (199885).
Lowerre, F. G., St. Petersburg, Fla.: 1 marine mollusk from Venezuela (199829).
Lowery, Dr. George H., Jr., Baton Rouge, La.: 13 mammals from San Luis Potosi, México (199342).
Luff, Moe, New York, N. Y.: 1 firstday new meter slogan (202472).
Lunz, G. Robert. (See Bears Bluff Laboratories)
Lutz, John C., Philadelphia, Pa.: 107 bugs from South America (201647, exchange).
Lyon, Rowland, Washington, D. C.: 36 block prints for special exhibition during December 1954 (200458, loan); 3 block prints, “Provincetown Roofs,” “Georgetown Factories,’ and “Sand Dunes” (201241).
Lyon, William J., Rizal, P. I.: 6 Philippine philatelic specimens (202501).
Maas, Alberto E., Alamos, Sonora, México: 3 aboriginal artifacts
(See Ari-
(199954) ; 1 anatase and brookite from near Alamos (200454) ; wood specimens of Palo Dulce from Sonora (201990).
MacCord, Maj. Howard A., A. P. O., San Francisco, Calif. : 819 archeological specimens consisting of potsherds and a few stone artifacts from Able Site, Kapyong, Korea (2023819).
MacDougall, T., Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, México: 6 plants collected in México (201391, 201922).
MacGinitie, Mrs. G. E., Corona del Mar, Calif.: 9 flatworms, and 3 shrimps (198971).
MacLellan, Maj. Robert W., San Francisco, Calif.: 2 Japanese swords and scabbards (1997380).
MacMullen, Dr. Donald. (See Defense, Department of, Department of the Army)
MacNeil, F. Stearns. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of the, Geological Survey)
Maguire, Dr. Bassett, New York, N. Y.: 67 shrimps (202282). (See also McGuire, Dr. Edward, and New York Botanical Garden)
Maher, Dr. Stuart W., Knoxville, Tenn.: Head and anterior body part of shark, embedded in phosphatic nodule and showing preserved muscle fibers, collected by donor in 1953 from Chattanooga formation at Lick Run, Dale Hollow Reservoir, Clay County, Tenn. (201867).
Maine State Forest Service, Augusta, Maine: (Through Dr. A. BE. Brower) 22 spongilla flies from Maine (202193)
Makins, Sir Roger. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Malaga Alba, Dr. Aurelio. American Sanitary Bureau)
Malkin, Borys, Seattle, Wash.: 58 beetles from United States and México (200823, 201067).
Mangor, Elovius. ernment of)
Mann, Dr. William M. (See Smithsonian Institution, National Zoological Park)
Marcel, Raymond. tanical Garden)
Marie, Robert, Fort Wayne, Ind.: 4 crayfish gastroliths from bottom of a flooded rock quarry in Markle, Ind. (198785).
Mariners Museum, Newport News, Va.: (Through Harold S. Sniffen) 50 prints for exhibition May 1954 (202192, loan).
Marques Borgas, Frederico, Porto Amélia, Portuguese East Africa: 170 marine and land shells, 1 marine invertebrate, and 2 echinoderms from near Porto Amélia (201157, exchange) ; 1 marine mollusk from Portuguese East Africa (202195).
(See Pan
(See Norway, Gov-
(See Montreal Bo

<<<Page: 95>>>

Marsh, J. A., Atherton, Queensland, Australia : 3 land mollusks from northern Queensland (199542, exchange) ; 23
land mollusks from Queensland (200978). Marshall, Elizabeth, Cambridge,
Mass. : 1 mammal, 8 reptiles and amphibians, 93 insects, 3 centipedes, and other arthropods (199965).
Marshall, Ernest B., Laurel, Md.: 25 mammals from Laurel (201045).
Marshall, Dr. Joe T., Jr., Tucson, Ariz.: 3 skins and 11 skeletons of birds from the South Pacific (201615).
Marshall, Dr. N. B. (See Great Britain, Government of, British Museum (Natural History) )
Martin, Dr. W. E., Los Angeles, Calif. : 9 marine mollusks from Hgypt (200257).
Martinez, Dr. Antonio, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 6 beetles, including 2 types, from South America (199773, exchange).
Mary Immaculate, Convent of, Key West, Fla.: (Through Sister Marie Caroline) 2 marine mollusks from Florida (198579).
Maryland Department of Research and Education, Solomons, Md.: (Through Rudolf 8. Scheltema) 13 crab larvae taken near mouth of Chesapeake Bay, Md. (199174).
Marx, Hans, Baltimore, Md.: 56 pictorial photographs for special exhibition March-April 1954 (201858, loan).
Masamune, Prof. Genkei. (See Kanazawa University)
Massengill Co., S. E., Bristol, Tenn.: (Through Frank W. DeFriece, Jr.) 2 tablet counting boards used by donor around 1900 (202336).
Mattox, Dr. N. T., Los Angeles, Calif.: 3 conchostracans, including the neotype (199207) ; 6 type crustaceans from Stuttgart, Ark. (200280).
Matuda, Prof. Eizi, México, D. F.: 433 plants from México (200404).
Maxon, C. R. (See New Jersey Zine
Maxwell, Brig. Gen. Alfred R., Arlington, Va.: Gray silk dress and white embroidered net dress, ca. 1900; petticoat, late 19th century; and pair black satin boots (199664).
Mayer, Dr. Fritz, Hamburg, many: 7 fishes (199925).
Mayne, Dr. Wolf, Caracas, Venezuela: 10 slides and 6 specimens of Tertiary and Cretaceous Foraminifera for the Cushman Collection (199533).
Mazzotti, Dr. Luis, México, D. F.: 1 gray fox and 1 rock squirrel from México (2005738, 200997).
McClatchie, Maj. Samuel, Fort Bragg, N. C.: 47 plants collected in Texas (201923).
Ger-
McConnell, Dr. Duncan, Columbus, Ohio: 1 Sschallerite from Franklin, N. J. (2005380).
McCormick-Gocdhart, Leander, Alexandria, WVa.:1 olive-backed thrush (202350).
McDowell, Dr. Samson, Towson, Md. : 56 marine diatoms (201652).
McElvare, Rowland R., Southern Pines, N. C.: 180 miscellaneous moths from North Carolina (202489).
McGinn, Lt. Col. John L., Victorville, Calif.: Bow stave and 5 arrows purchased in 1950 by donor from Negritos outside Clark Field, Luzon, Philippine Islands (199074).
McGlamery, Dr. Winnie. bama Geological Survey )
McGuire, Dr. Edward, and Maguire, Dr. Bassett, New York, N. Y¥.: 5 fishes from Venezuela, collected by Wetherby Venezuelan Expedition 1952-1953 (200580).
Mcintosh, Mrs. Jeanne G., Alexandria, Va.: Flute, clarinet, and band musie seores, used by father of donor, Francois Guaragno, in French Army Band, ca. 1895 (202495).
McKnew, Dr. Thomas M., Washington, D. C.: 1 nighthawk from Bethesda, Md. (199412).
McLaren, Dr. Digby, Ottawa, Ontario: 16 Lower Ordovician brachiopods from Rocky Mountains in British Columbia (199706).
McVaugh, Dr. Rogers. gan, University of)
Mead, Dr. Giles W., Stanford, Calif. : 137 fishes collected in Japan and Gulf of Mexico (195731); 1 scyllarid collected off Isabella Island in the Galapagos (199393).
Mead, Hilda, Springfield, Mo.: 12 land and fresh-water mollusks from Missouri (201650).
Meehan, Ruth L., Washington, D. C.: Silver nipple and shield used by grandmother, ca. 1850 (198820) ; tortoise shell comb, ca. middle 19th century (202246).
Meen, Dr. V. Ben. (See Royal Ontario Museum of Geology and Mineralogy)
Mehta, Dhrirubhai, Ghatkopar, India: 2 commemorative covers, 1 Sample cover, and 1 envelope bearing special postal marking (199277) ; 1 set of 2 Indian Mount Everest stamps on first-day cover (199801); 2 first-day covers (200717).
Melson, Robert, Shields, Va.: 3 late Miocene corals from Shields, Accomack County, Va. (199858).
Melvin, Mrs. Elna Smith, College Park, Md.: Restored vessel, pottery heads, and pottery object, given to donor by caretakers of Baron Iwosaki’s (Itwasati?) Museum, Tokyo, Japan,
(See Ala-
(See Michi

<<<Page: 96>>>

after bombing during World War II (199952).
Melvin, John H. cal Survey)
Menzies, Dr. Robert J., La Jolla, Calif. : 110 isopod crustaceans (199624).
Meredith, Donald T. (See Upjohn Co.)
Mergenthaler Linotype Co., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 1 cacheted first-day cover (202380).
Metal & Thermit Corp. New York, N. Y.: (Through Carl R. Schroeder) 2 ore specimens from Bowe Farm, near Gouldin, Hanover County, Va. (200758).
Metlon Corp., New York, N. Y.: 23 specimens illustrating the production of nontarnishable yarn Metlon (202232).
Meurer, J. J., Hellengom, Netherlands: 88 bugs (201819, exchange).
Meyersburg, Robert, Silver Spring, Md.: 1 Guatemalan philatelic specimen (200735).
Miami, University of, Marine Laboratory, Coral Gables, Fla.: 890 marine algae from Walter T. Swingle herbarium (198911)
Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor, Mich. : 10 Mexican grasses, collected by James H. Maysilles (195197) ; 2 plants from Utah (199215); 19 lichens from Rocky Mountains (200958, exchange) ; 149 Mexican grasses, mostly collected by Dr. Rogers McVaugh (201002) ; 543 plants, mostly from México (201987, exchange) ; 876 bryophytes (202166, exchange); (through Dr. Charles F. Walker) 126 Brazilian frogs collected by Dr. Joseph R. Bailey in 1941 (198738) ; (through P. B. Kannowski) 12 cotype workers of ants from North America (199086) ; (through Dr. Robert R. Miller) 40 type fishes from Mississippi (199154, exchange) ; 54 fishes from México (202428, exchange) ; (through Dr. Rogers MeVaugh) 4 ferns from Texas (200906); (through Alan Solem) 28 land snails, including 4 paratypes, from México (201158, exchange) ; (through Dr. Claude W. Hibbard) 10 specimens: fossil jaw and tooth material from Rexroad fauna (201634, exchange).
Mickle, Leslie E. Corp. )
Milera, José Fernandez, Cardenas, Cuba: 31 Cuban decapod crustaceans (201548).
Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington, D. C.: 1 redware kitchen pot from Roop’s Mill, Md., and 1 fragment of blue-decorated stoneware crock marked “P. Herrmann” (202491).
Miles, Mr. and Mrs. Arnold, Washington, D. C.: Handwoven, white cotton
(See Ohio Geologi-
(See Nursmatic
spencer, early 19th century; probably worn originally by Barbara Uhler Adams of Howard County, Maryland (199519) .
Milford, Mrs. W. R., Baltimore, Md.: Miscellaneous glass fragments found by donor at site of John Frederick Amelung’s New Bremen Glass Works, Frederick County, Md. (1785-1795) (200207).
Miller, H. W., Ann Arbor, Mich.: Model of the German “Paris Gun,” World War I; relief map of area in which first 3 of these guns were loeated; wooden reproduction of shell used in gun, and 8’’ steel ball, one of 96 on which rotating and elevating mechanism was mounted (196623).
Miller, H. W., Santa Clara, Cuba: Approximately 260 land, fresh-water, and marine mollusks from United States, Cuba, and Central America (1987083).
Miller, Mary Harriett, Alexandria, Va.: 1 decorated leather flat pouch, Haussa, Africa (199949).
Miller, Michael, Baltimore, Md.: 6 Baltimore Philatelic Society exhibition seals (202387).
Miller, Dr. Robert R. University of)
Milliron, Dr. H. E., Newark, Del.: 1 wasp from Australia (199669).
Milton, Charles, Washington, D. C.: A chloroapatite from Atacama, Chile (199055).
Minato, Prof. Hideo, Tokyo, Japan: 3 iron sericites and 1 magnesium sericite from Shimane Prefecture, Japan (199820, exchange).
Miner, H. E., Silver Spring, Md.: 2 18th-century German krugs mounted with pewter (199044).
Ministério da Educacao e Saude, Santa Catarina, Brazil: (Through Dr. H. P. Veloso) 150 plants from Brazil (199374).
Ministério da Viacao e Obras Publicas, Fortaleza, Brazil: (Through Carlos Bastos Tigre) 12 fishes from Brazil (198985).
Ministério de Agricultura y Cria, Caracas, Venezuela : 62 plants collected in Venezuela (199150, 201038, 201610, 201792).
Minkus, Jacques. (See Israel Philatelic Agency in America, Inc.)
Minnesota, University of, Minneapolis, Minn.: (Through Dr. Gerald B. Ownbey) 31 Mexican ferns (200498) ; (through Dr. Edwin F. Cock) 16 spongilla flies from United States (200970).
Misaki Marine Biological Station, Aburatsubo, Japan: (Through Dr. Ichiro Tomiyama) 38 samples of gorgonian corals (200677).
(See Michigan,

<<<Page: 97>>>

Mississippi State College, State College, Miss.: 1 grass from Mississippi (198805).
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Mo.: 332 plants (200215, exchange).
Mitchell, Mrs. Eva Jemison, San Antonio, Tex.: Horse stealing charm necklace, and photograph of Stabs By Mistake, Piegan Indian, in memory of Col. Charles Leslie Mitchell (199884).
Mitchell, H. D. (See Campex)
Mizushima, Masami, Tokyo, Japan: 7 Japanese plants (200816, exchange).
Mohr, Dr. Carl O. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
Mollenkopf, Mrs. William G., Princeton, N. J.: Japanese kimono of painted silk, with obi and sash, acquired by donor in 1939 (200525).
Monaco, Government of: (Through Office des Emissions de Timbres-Post) 42 stamps and 1 first-day cover from Monaco (202434).
Monod, Dr. Théodore. Franeais d’Afrique Noire)
Montana State College, Bozeman, Mont.: (Through Clyde M. Senger) 143 land and fresh-water mollusks from Montana and Oregon (200662).
Montreal Botanical Garden, Montreal, Quebec: 4 plants (199479); (through Raymond Marcel) 3 grasses from Canada (196484); (through Dr. Ernest Rouleau) 483 plants from Newfoundland (200960, exchange).
Moore, Ian M., El Cajon, Calif. : 2 paratype beetles from Baja California (201640).
Morales Agacino, Dr. E., Madrid, Spain: 48 grasshoppers (2005386).
Moravian Museum, Preslova, Brno, Czechoslovakia : 50 plants from Czechoslovakia (201344, exchange).
Morey, P.S. (See Myers, Donald A.) Morrison, Phillip, New York, N. Y.: 1 block print, “Jerusalem, Old City,” by Mordechai Ayniel (199729). Morrison-Scott, Dr. T. C. S. (See Great Britain, Government of, British Museum (Natural History) )
Mostow, Elmer, Washington, D. C.: 1 Aztec plaster smoother (199953).
Moul, David, and Kirk, Russell, Alexandria, Va.: Specimen of apophyllite crystals on prehnite, and one of thaumasite, from Fairfax quarry, near Centreville, Va. (199172, exchange).
Moul, Dr. Edwin T., Woods Hole, Mass.: 5 fresh-water mollusks from Onotoa Atoll, Gilbert Islands (198695).
Mozley, Dr. Alan, London, England: 346 fresh-water mollusks from Canada, Italy, Nyasaland, and Anatolia (199168, 199425).
Muesebeck, C. F. W. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural
(See Institut
Research Service, Entomology Research Branch)
Mumford, Russell E., Cortland, Ind.: 64 small mammals from Indiana and New Mexico (198645) ; 3 bats from Eliza Island, Wash. (199841); 2 bats from Indiana (201068).
Murie, Claus J., Moose, Wyo.: 1 bird from St. Lawrence Island, Alaska (201220).
Murphy, F. L. (See Lederle Laboratories Division of American Cyanamide Co.)
Murray, Dr. J. J., Lexington, Va.: 3 birds (200127).
Musée Zoologique, Lausanne, Switzerland: (Through Dr. J. de Beaumont) 117 wasps from Europe represented by 70 species (199214, exchange) ; 200 solitary wasps from Palaearctic region (200510, exchange).
Museo de Historia Natural “Javier Prado,” Lima, Peri: 77 plants from Perti (199216, 200704); (through Dr. Ramon Ferreyra) 40 grasses collected in Perti by Oscar Tovar (200754).
Museo Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 7 plants from Brazil (199418, exchange).
Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France: (Through Dr. Jean Guibé) 4 snakes from Santa Rosalia, Baja California (199306, exchange) ; (through Mlle. S. Caillere) 5 minerals from Algeria and Madagascar (200794, exchange) ; (through Prof. M. Jacques Berlioz) 1 Hmperor penguin egg and 1 downy chick, 1 West African spotted honey-guide skin (202324, exchange).
Myers, Alfred H., Chevy Chase, Md.: 1 print, “Azrael” (200714).
Myers, Donald A., and Morey, P. S., Austin, Tex.: 500 pelecypods and gastropods from Lower Cretaceous Glenrose formation, west of Burnet, Tex. (202372).
Myklebost, Tor. ernment of)
National Cotton Council of America, New York, N. Y.: 24 cotton fabrics illustrating finishes, textures, colors, and trends of 1953 (198933).
National Federation of Stamp Clubs, New York, N. Y.: 1 cacheted envelope with special cancellation marking ist National Convention (202396).
National First Day Cover Club, Arlington, Wa.: 1 Columbia University first-day cover (202395).
National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C.: (Through Ken Weaver) § fishes collected in Straits of Messina, Italy, by Paul A. Zahl, 1953 (198581).
National Museum, Manila, P. I.: 207 Philippine plants (199583, exchange).
National Photographic Society, Washington, D. C.: (Through Harry B.
(See Norway, Gov

<<<Page: 98>>>

Shaw) 50 pictorial prints and 70 transparencies by members of the Society for exhibition December 1953 (200635, loan).
National Research Council, Pacific Science Board, Washington, D. C.: 199 plants from Tuamotus (200219) ; (through Donald W. Strasburg) 927 fishes from Southern Marshall Islands (199700); (through Frederick M. Bayer) Approximately 5,760 marine invertebrates, Foraminifera, 88 echinoderms, birds, fishes, 36 insects, 3 mammals, approximately 2,110 mollusks, and 65 lizards, collected by 4th Pacific Atoll Research team at Ifaluk Atoll, Caroline Islands, 1953 (200652).
National Research Council of Canada, Halifax, Nova Scotia: (Through Dr. Ralph A. Lewin) 32 samples of diatoms (201052, 201601).
National Science Museum, Tokyo, Japan: 200 Japanese plants (199047, exchange); 6 plants from Ryukyu Islands (201222, exchange).
National Tuberculosis Association, New York, N. Y.: (Through Charles Lorenz) 29 progressive color proofs and a single die proof of 1953 Christmas seals (199313; 172 specimens showing processes used to produce 1953 Christmas seals (202394).
Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria: 1,055 plants (201347, exchange).
Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden: 870 plants from Haiti (198751, exchange) ; 31 South Ameriean plants (199373, 202073).
Nebraska, State of, Department of Health, Lincoln, Nebr.: (Through William F. Rapp, Jr.) 8 land and fresh-
water mollusks from Nebraska (199788). Needham, Richard M., Lancaster,
Ohio: 3 first-day covers (199803, 200729, 202397).
Neidorf, Charles, New York, N. Y.: 10 ferns, chiefly from New York State (199188).
Netherlands, Government of, Direction General des Postes, Telegraphes et Telephones, The Hague: 16 stamps from Netherlands (199083, 199873, 200737) ; 17 philatelie specimens from Netherlands (200726, 202332).
Neuerburg, Dr. George J., North Hollywood, Calif.: Specimen of uranothorite from Pacoima Canyon, Los Angeles County, Calif. (198915).
Neuschel, Sherman K. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey)
New Jersey Zinc Co., New York, WN. Y.: (Through C. R. Maxon) 8 transparencies on production and use of zinc (198811).
Newman, Walter B., Hyattsville, Md.: 1 type salamander from Montgomery County, Md. (202278).
New York, State University of, Syracuse, N. Y.: 115 plants (200956, exchange) ; 86 wood specimens native to the United States (202081, exchange).
New York Botanical Garden, New York, N. Y.: 324 plants of Ecuador, México, and the United States (198749, exchange) ; 1 plant from Guadeloupe (198752) ; 57 plants collected in Venezuela by Dr. Bassett Maguire (199579, 199581) ; 39 South American phanerogams (199592) ; 252 plants, mostly from Venezuela, collected by Dr. Bassett Maguire (199922, exchange) ; 5 plants (201035) ; 149 plants collected mostly in British Guiana (201809, exchange) ; (through Dr. Bassett Maguire) 90 Venezuelan plants collected by Dr. Bassett Maguire and J. J. Wurdock (199577).
New York City Department of Parks, Staten Island, N. Y.: (Through Edwin Rundlett) 10 moth caterpillars from Mariners Harbor, Staten Island (200272).
Nicaragua, Government of: (Through Agustin P. Vanegas) 18 Presidential postage and airmail stamps, and 3 firstday covers (198874) ; (through Oficina de Control de Especies Postales y Filatelia) 15 Nicaraguan stamps and firstday covers (202435).
Nishida, Makoto, Chiba, Japan: 108 ferns from Ryukyu Islands (201280, 201662).
Noguchi, Prof. A., Oita, Japan: 55 mosses from Japan (199587, exchange).
Nolan, Dr. M. O. (See Coachella Valley County Water District)
Norfolk Museum, Norfolk, Va.: (Through Roger Rageot) 34 land and fresh-water mollusks from Dismal Swamp area of Virginia (200304).
North Carolina, University of, Chapel Hill, N. C.: 45 plants collected in North Carolina (201346, exchange) ; (through Dr. A. E. Radford) 1 fern from North Carolina (198687, exchange).
North Carolina State College, Raleigh, N. C.: 207 plants from southeastern United States (199414, 202329, exchange).
Norway, Government of: (Through Tor Myklebost) 3 Norwegian “North Cape” semi-postals (198873); 2 Nor-
wegian stamps (199081, 199298) ; (through Elovius Mangor) 3 Centenary of Norwegian Railways stamps (202187).
Norwich Pharmacal Company, Norwich, N. Y.: (Through M. C. Eaton) 1 gelatin pill coater used by donor in 1885,

<<<Page: 99>>>

and 2 bottles gelatin coated pills (202251).
Nursmatic Corp. Chicago, Ill: (Through Leslie BH. Mickle) 1 8-ounce No. 201 bottle with an insta-valve (199187).
Oaks, O. A., Wilmette, Ill.: 29 wood specimens from Guatemala, New Zealand, Tasmania, New Britain, and Texas (201089).
Ober, Lewis D., Melbourne, Fla.: 2 land snails from Melbourne (200387).
Ochoa, Dr. C., Huancayo, Perti: 95 phanerogams from Pert (199696).
Odum, Prof. Howard T., Gainesville, Fla.: 307 fresh-water mollusks from Florida springs (197678).
Office des Emissions de TimbresPost. (See Monaco, Government of)
Oficina de Control de Especies Postales y Filatelia. (See Nicaragua, Government of)
Ohio Geological Survey, Columbus, Ohio: (Through John H. Melvin) Partial skeleton of fossil amphibian, and 20 brachiopods from Wayne Township, Jefferson County, Ohio, collected by Russell J. Lehmann and others during summer (199731).
Ohira, Hitoo. University )
Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College, Stillwater, Okla. : 27 grasses from Oklahoma (201221, exchange).
Old, William E., Jr., Norfolk, Va.: Approximately 352 marine mollusks from Virginia (199127).
Olsen, Dr. Leland S., Lincoln, Nebr. : 2 type nematode worms from Fiji Islands (200776).
Oman, Dr. Paul W. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural Research Service, Entomology Research Branch)
Omwake, H. G., Greenwood, Del.: Collection of pottery from 8 sites near Lewes, Sussex County, Del. (199680).
Orchard, C. D., San Antonio, Tex.: 6,000 miscellaneous mollusks, mainly land and fresh-water, from Texas (180900).
Orena, Mrs. Maria Antonia, San H'raneisco, Calif.: United States flag said to have been flown on San Juan Hill during the Spanish-American War (185645).
Ortigas, Francisco, Jr., Manila, P. L.: 25 Philippine stamps (198514).
Ortiz, Dr. Ignacio. (See Instituto Nacional de Higiene)
Osborn Botanical Laboratory, New Haven, Conn.: (Through Dr. John R. Reeder) 48 Mexican ferns (200631).
Osborne, Dr. F. F., Quebec, Quebec: 5 Devonian brachiopods from Famine formation, Quebec (2006838).
(See Aichi Gakugei
Otis, Mrs. Helen P., Tarpon Springs, Fla.: (Through Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry) 1 coral from Fiji (199073).
Otis, K. C., Washington, D. C.: 1 redtailed hawk (199731).
Owens, Mrs. Frances W., Silver Spring, Md.: 1 black-widow spider and egg sae (201042).
Ownbey, Dr. Gerald B. sota, University of)
Oxford University, Druce Herbarium, Oxford, England: (Through Dr. E. F. Warburg) 1 phanerogam from Great Britain (199590).
Page, Hollis, Pomona, Calif.: 1 adamite from Mapami, México (200451, exchange).
Paige, Mr. and Mrs. P. Paul, Atherton, Calif.: 2 marine mollusks from off Mazatlin, México (201852).
Pakistan, Geological Survey of: (Through Mohsenul Haque) 15 Paleocene Foraminifera from the Salt Range of Pakistan (201194).
Paleontologisk Museum, Oslo, Norway: (Through Prof. Anatol Heintz) 22 specimens and casts of fossil ostracoderm fishes from Upper Silurian formation of Norway and Spitsbergen (197815, exchange).
Palmer, Crystal, Daytona Beach, Fla.: 3 needlepoint tapestries, bronze medal, and letter (201877, loan).
Pan-American Sanitary Bureau, México, D. F.: (Through Dr. Aurelio Malaga Alba) 19 big-eared bats from Chihuahua, México, and Big Bend, Tex. (202017).
Panko, Maj. Albert Robert, Garfield, N. J.: Silver hunting-case watch with Silver chain and key winder, ca. 1850 (200761).
Papua and New Guinea, Territory of, Department of Forests, Lae, New Guinea: 73 plants collected in New Guinea (201869, exchange).
Parke, Davis & Co., Detroit, Mich.: (Through George A. Bender) 12 mounted prints, ‘“History of Pharmacy in Pictures” (202440).
Parker, Robert H., La Jolla, Calif. : 18 marine invertebrates (201091).
Parkhurst, Joseph L., Jr., Colonia, N. J.: 196 fresh-water, and 15 brackishwater mollusks from New Jersey (199339, 201538) ; 10 sea horses from Atlantie coast of France (201623) ; 26 marine mollusks from Massachusetts, New Jersey, England, and Japan (200912, 201306).
Patch, William Young (deceased) : (Through Ruth Hawkes) Old sampler made by Esther Tincom (200253).
Paterson, W. C., Denver, Colo. : 1 betauranophane and uranophane in gneiss from Slavonia District, Routt County, Colo. (200382).
(See Minne

<<<Page: 100>>>

Patterson, Dr. Paul, Hollins College, Va.: 1 moss from Virginia (198763).
Payne, Lewis E., Washington, D. C.:1 horseshoe crab collected at Kiptopeke Beach near Cape Charles, Va. (199473).
Pearson, Mrs. Louise M., Arlington, Va.: 1 red-tailed hawk (202168).
Pecha, Mrs. Leona. (See Island Girl Scout Stamp Club)
Pechuman, Dr. L. L., Lockport, N. Y.: 2 type horseflies from United States (201648, exchange).
Pecora, Dr. William T., Washington, D. C.: 10 minerals from Bear Paw Mountains, Mont. (200456) ; 4 moraesites, 1 tavorite and barbosalite from Brazil; 2 burbankite and calkinsite from Montana, all types (202178).
Peelle & Nichols. (See Sands, Mrs. Muriel FE.)
Penn, Dr. George H., New Orleans, La.: 8 types of new species of crayfish
Long
from Louisiana and Mississippi (198700). (See also Tulane University)
Pennington, W. E., Tallahassee, Fla. : 2 fossil horse teeth collected on beach, Hillsboro Bay, Davis Islands, near Tampa, and 1 tooth collected on beach, Clearwater, Pinellas County, Fla., by donor August 1953 (199497).
Pennsylvania, University of, University Museum, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. F. G. Rainey) Replica of Sumerian tablet on medicine recently translated by Dr. Samuel N. Kramer (200740).
Penson, J. Hubert, Washington, D. C.: 24 plants collected in Virginia (202328).
Perry, Kenneth M., Washington, D. C.: Cave concretion from Hicklin Cave near Millboro, Va. (199184); 1 blind cave erayfish (201464).
Perry, Dr. Stuart H., Adrian, Mich.: Approximately 2,000 glass negatives of Photo Micrographs of Meteoric Irons, vols. 1 to 9, by donor (158582) ; 3 Canyon Diablo, Arizona, meteorites (200709); a few grams of Tambo Quemado meteorite, from District of Ayacucho, Pert: (202466).
Peters, Prof. Dr. Hans M., Tiibingen, Germany: 2 grasses from Hl Salvador (202167). (See also Zoologisches Institut)
Petters, Dr. V., Bogota, Colombia : 12 specimens of Upper Cretaceous, Eocene, and Oligocene Foraminifera from Colombia, including 8 types (200529).
Pfizer and Co., Inc., Charles, Brooklyn, N. Y.: (Through W. C. Walker) 2 packages of antibiotic Terramycin, a package of Magnamycin, and sample of original soil from which S. rimosus was obtained (198822).
Phelps, William H., Caracas, Venezuela: 2 birds (199514, exchange).
817706—54—_7
Phelps Dodge Corp., Douglas, Ariz.: (Through C. R. Kuzell) 27 copper ores from Bisbee, Ariz. (198592, exchange).
Philip, Dr. Cornelius B., Hamilton, Mont.: 1 horsefly paratype from United States (201735, exchange).
Philip, Mrs. Hoffman, Washington, D. C.: 2 Greek statuettes (200126).
Philippines, Republic of the, Manila, P. 1.: Department of Health: (Through Dr. F. EH. Baisas) 27 mosquitoes including types from Philippines (201291) National Museum: (through Dr. EHduardo Quisumbing) 204 land, freshwater, and marine mollusks from the Philippines (195452).
Philippines, University of the, Iloilo College, Tloilo City, P. I.: 5 grasses from Philippine Islands (201056).
Pickford, Dr. Grace E., New Haven, Conn.: (Through William C. Grant) Approximately 928 specimens of an earthworm (198970).
Pilsbry, Dr. Henry A. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and Otis, Mrs. Helen P.)
Pimper, Mrs. James Lambie, Washington, D. C.: 13 specimens of military uniforms and accessories, and 2 vests, ea. 1800 (200025).
Platzker, Philip H., New York, N. Y.: 30 stamps featuring the Apostle’s Creed and “Christmas Story” (200414).
Pletsch, Dr. Donald J., San Francisco, Calif.: Collection of reptiles and amphibians, 2 fishes, 16 mammals, 60 mollusks, 41 insects, and 3 canes covered with snakeskin, collected by donor in Taiwan and adjoining islands (199123, 201127).
Plowes, Darrel C. H., Nyamandhlovu, Southern Rhodesia : 2 sets of birds’ eggs (202165).
Pojan, Dr. José M. (See Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle)
Poland, Government of: (Through Varimex) 62 £philatelic specimens (199060, 199275, 199459, 199863, 200412, 200721, 202393) ; (through Prasa i Ksiazka) 11 Polish philatelic specimens (202892).
Poling, James W., New York, N. Y.: 37 fresh-water mollusks (199969, exchange) ; 37 land mollusks from Denmark, collected by H. Schlesch (201395).
Pollock, Herman, Tropic, Utah: 1 Upper Cretaceous ammonite, and 1 fossil oyster (201598).
Polonus Philatelic Society, Chicago, Tll.: 2 “Polpex 1954” philatelic exhibition souvenir label sheets (2023888).
Post Office Department, Washington, D. C.: 647 postage stamps: 1 each issued in foreign countries and described in Universal Postal Union Bulletin No. 11-IV, April 28, 1953, No. 15-IV, June 12, 1958, and No. 16-IV, July 7, 1953

<<<Page: 101>>>

(199204) ; 3 copies each of following stamps: Louisiana Purchase, Fiftieth Anniversary of Aviation, Commodore Perry, American Bar Association, Sagamore Hill (199690); 549 postage stamps: 1 each issued in foreign countries and described in Universal Postal Union Bulletin No. 19-IV, August 4, 1953, and No. 22-IV, September 25, 1953 (200190) ; 300 foreign postage Stamps: 1 each issued in foreign countries and described in Bulletin No. 24-IV issued by International Bureau of Universal Postal Union, October 27, 1953 (200430) ; 3 copies each of 6 commemorative stamps (201200); 845 foreign philatelic specimens, described in Universal Postal Union Bulletin No. 26, December 11, 1953, and No. 28, December 29, 1953 (201744).
Pou, Alejandro, Jr., Montevideo, Uruguay: 7 coins and 11 stamps of Uruguay (199645).
Pough, Dr. Frederick H., New York, N. Y¥.: 2 minerals: bazzite, Etzle Tal, Uri, Italy; thoreaulite, Belgian Congo (201062).
Prasa i Ksiazka. ernment of)
Pratt, Dr. Harry D. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
Pretoria, University of, Pretoria, Union of South Africa: 83 plants from Africa (199660, exchange).
Price, Dr. Homer F., Payne, Ohio: 6 dragonflies and 4 butterflies from United States (200442).
Prince, B. Earl, Baton Rouge, La.: 44 fresh-water mollusks from Louisiana (197811).
Prince, Robert, Coral Hills, Md.: 1 wasp from Maryland (199886).
Provincial Museum, Victoria, British Columbia: (Through Dr. G. Clifford Carl) 246 land and fresh-water mollusks from British Columbia (200483).
Puerto Rico, University of, Mayagiiez, P. R.: (Through J. A. Rivero) 32 fishes, 2 shrimps, 2 crabs, and 1 frog from the Upper Orinoco Region, Veneguela (198928).
Pulsifer, Herbert G. State College)
Purchon, Dr. R. Denison, Singapore: 8 mollusks from Malaya (200848); 1 marine mollusk from Singapore (202253).
Quate, Dr. Larry W., Lincoln, Nebr.: 30 slides of type Hawaiian flies (201794).
Quisumbing, Dr. Eduardo. (See Philippines, Republic of, National Museum)
Radalj, M. (See Yugoslavia, Government of)
Radford, Dr. A. KE. lina, University of)
(See Poland, Gov-
(See Iowa
(See North Caro-
Raemaekers, Roland H., Bozene, Belgian Congo: 127 land and fresh-water mollusks from Belgian Congo (200657, exchange).
Rageot, Roger. seum)
Rainey, Dr. F. G. University of)
Raj, Mrs. Hilda, Washington, D. C.: Tamil game-board from South India (200282).
Rambo, Dr. B. chieta )
Ramdohr, Prof. Paul, Heidelberg, Germany: 6 minerals from Baden, Germany (200457, exchange).
Ramsden, Mrs. Charles T., Santiago de Cuba, Cuba: 1,773 skins, 75 skeletons, and 243 eggs of birds; 23,200 mollusks ; 619 insects from Cuba, constituting the Dr. Charles T. Ramsden collection (196701).
Randall, Mrs. Nancy Twedt, Washington, D. C.: 14 prints for special exhibition April 26—May 23, 1954 (201993, loan).
Raney, Dr. Edward C. University )
Rapp, Floyd A., Brandywine, Md.; 4 rare Japanese minerals, 2 cut amethysts, and 2 cut apatites (199856) ; 2 orthoclase minerals from Japan; 1 sodaorthoclase from Korea; and 1 heliotrope from Sakhalien (202172).
Rapp, William F., Jr. (See Nebraska, State of, Department of Health)
Rasetti, Dr. Franco, Baltimore, Md.: 150 Triassic invertebrate fossils from Italy (199457).
Raup, Omer B., Washington, D. C.: 1 wollastonite from Willsboro, N. Y. (202462).
Rausch, Dr. Robert. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service).
Raven-Hart, Maj. R., Colombo, Ceylon: 210 marine mollusks from Yasawa Islands, Fiji (201868).
Ray, Dr. H. C. (See India, Government of, Zoological Survey)
Raybestos-Manhattan Inc., Manheim, Pa.: 9woven asbestos products (202079).
Redman, John H., Alexandria, Va.: 1 chinchilla (200338).
Reed, Dr. Clyde F., Baltimore, Md.: 46 plants from Maryland (201050).
Reed, Dr. Edwyn P., Valparaiso, Chile: 2 bryozoans on algae from Chile (198251) ; 2 spiny lobsters from Haster Island, and 15 shrimps from off coast of Chile (201092).
Reed, Fred S. C., Christchurch, New Zealand: 3 samples of diatoms (199800).
Reed, Martin M., New York, N. Y.: 1 first-day cover of German commemorative stamp (202879).
(See Norfolk Mu-
(See Pennsylvania,
(See Colegio An-
(See Cornell

<<<Page: 102>>>

Reeder, Dr. John R. tanical Laboratory)
Reese, Albert, New York, N. Y.: 25 color lithographs by John Muench for exhibition May 24—June 20, 1954 (202109, loan).
Reeside, Dr. John B., Jr. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey)
Rehn, J. A. G., Philadelphia, Pa.: 2 Mexican grasshoppers (200533).
Reid, J. A., Kuala Lumpur, Federated Malay States: 10 mosquitoes from Malaya (201501).
Reilly, Col. John R., Winnetka, IIl.: 2 Spanish sword blades made in 1786 and 1791 (200968).
Reinhard, Prof. H. J., College Station, Tex.: 6 sarcophagid flies from Texas (201889, exchange).
Reitz, Rev. P. Raulino. bario “Barbosa Rodrigues’’)
Reparticao Técnica de Agricultura, Lourenco Marques, Mozambique, Portuguese East Africa: 4 grasses from Africa collected by Mario Myre, et al (201392) ; 4 grasses from Mozambique (202218).
Reyer, Emil, South Bend, Ind.: Specimen of surgical agarie (201070).
Ribaut, Dr. H., Toulouse, France: 4 paratypes of wasps (201290, exchange).
Ribeiro, Dr. Paulo de Miranda. (See Brazil, University of)
Richards, Dr. O. W., London, England: 11 European wasps, including 2 paratypes (201510, exchange).
Riebe, Henry F., Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 plant from Jerusalem (198909).
Risso, Dr. Francisco J. J., Ciudad Eva Peron, Argentina: 165 fishes, and 1 erustacean from Argentina (199155, 199699).
Rivero, J. A. (See Puerto Rico, University of)
Rhodesia and Nyasaland, Federation of, London, England: (Through Colin Black) 15 Rhodesia and Nyasaland postage stamps (202471).
Rietschel, Ernest, Sheldon, Conn. : 39 Russian Zone of Germany stamps (202480); 12 4philatelic specimens (199869).
Ritcher, Dr. Paul O., Corvallis, Oreg. : 32 beetles from Oregon (202401).
Robert, Rear Adm. William P., Washington, D. C.: 7 uniforms and accessories of U. S. naval officer (202248).
Roberts, Dr. F. H. H., Jr. (See Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Hthnology)
Roberts, W. L., Rapid City, 8. Dak.: 3 South Dakota minerals: scorzalite from Victory pegmatite; stannite from Etta pegmatite; and barite from Meade County (199662, 201016, exchange).
(See Osborn Bo-
(See Her-
Robertson, G. Alexander. (See Stone, Mrs. Mary A.) Robinson, Mrs. Dwight P. (de
ceased): (Through Dwight P. Robinson) Turquoise pendant from ancient Zuni Indian shrine, subsequently mounted in gold filigree by Matilda Coxe Stevenson as wedding gift to donor (201129).
Robinson, Mark, Springfield, Pa.: 1 beetle from United States (199808, exchange).
Roca-Garcia, Mrs. Manuel, Mahwah, N. J.: 53 plants from Colombia (198799).
Roebling Collection, Smithsonian Institution: (Through Harold Levey, John Glaser, and Joel Shappirio) i apophyllite on prehnite from Fairfax quarry, near Centreville, Va. (199861, exchange).
Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Instiiution: Specimen of cheleutite from Saxony, Germany (199056); 7 lots of “bomb” fragments from Meteor Crater, Ariz. (199057); 1 synthetic emerald erystal, 1014 carats (199185) ; 1 specimen of uraninite replacing wood and altering to schroeckingerite from Seven Mile mines, Moab, Utah (199269) ; 2 cut gems: black opal from Lightning Ridge, New South Wales, and white opal from Coober Pedy, South Australia (199458) ; 22, miscellaneous minerals from Ireland, Italy, South America, United States, México, and Russia (200022, 200133, 200820) ; 350 rockbridgeites from the Fletcher mine, North Groton, N. H. (200163) ; 8 uncut diamond crystals from French Equatorial Africa (200326) ; 1 lot of allemontite from Rio Moctezuma, Sonora, México (200509) ; 6 minerals: pyrrhotite and jamesonite from Trepca, Yugoslavia; uraninite from Morogoro district, Tanganyika, East Africa (200532) ; 3 meteorites from Brisco and Lubbock, Tex., and Panter, P. I. (201064) ; 2 aquamarine crystals on albite matrix from Palmital, Minas Gerais, Brazil (201393); 1 bismutite, Transvaal, South Africa; 1 erythrite, Franklin, N. J. (201352) ; 17 uranium minerals from Germany, Czechoslovakia and Australia (201813); 8 minerals from Italy: cotunnite, hydroromeite, and spherocobaltite (201878) ; 8 phosphate minerals from Hagendorf, Bavaria, Germany, and 1 freislebenite from Nevada (201888) ; minerals from Brazil: spodumene, beryl, blue tourmaline, black tourmaline, topaz, and quartz (202287); 10 rough Australian diamonds (202238) ; 3 xenotimes from Madagascar, and 3 ellestadites, Crestmore, Calif. (202510).

<<<Page: 103>>>

Roger, Dr. Jean, Paris, France: 2 brachiopods from Devonian of France (202236, exchange).
Rogers, Mrs. Ames P., Abilene, Kans. : Wedding outfit, ca. 1920, consisting of dress, train, veil, gloves, shoes, and lingerie (198901).
Rogers, Col. Frank B. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Armed Forces Medical Library)
Rohrer, Josephine Arthur, Washington, D. C.: Brooch and eardrops of malachite mounted in gold, acquired 1877-1878 in St. Petersburg, Russia, by Mrs. Joshua Weaver, great aunt of donor; pair antique Florentine mosaic enamel cuff buttons (198906).
Roots, Robert D., Denver, Colo.: 2 pseudomorphs of quartz after selenite, from Sioux County, Kans. (199961).
Rosen, Dr. Leon, Bethesda, Md.: 37 mosquitoes from Pacific Islands (199167). (See also Johns Hopkins Medical School)
Ross, Dr. Edward S., San Francisco, Calif.: 2 paratype insects (194518) ; 62 marine invertebrates collected in Chile (199554).
Ross, Dr. H. H. (See Illinois State Natural History Survey)
Ross, Mrs. Helen M., Millburn, N. J.: 26 philatelic specimens (199063, 200413, 200719, 202389).
Ross, Mrs. Nancy Angeline, Mars, Pa.: Applique quilt made by Jane Barr, aunt of donor, 1849 (201232).
Rouleau, Dr. Ernest. (See Montreal, University of)
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey, England: 54 plants from Malaysia (200748, exchange) ; 26 plants collected in South America (202327, exchange).
Royal New Zealand Air Force Station, Lauthala Bay, Fiji: (Through Dr. Marshall Laird) 157 immature midges from Southwest Pacific (201502).
Royal Ontario Museum of Geology and Mineralogy, Toronto, Ontario: (Through Dr. V. Ben Meen) 2 crystals of sphene from Monmouth Township, Ontario (201237, exchange) ; 2 minerals: basaluminite from Ilchester, Northampton, England, and aikenite from Silver Miller mine, Cobalt, Ontario, Canada (200410, exchange).
Royal Ontario Museum of Zoology, Toronto, Ontario: 1 Hudson Bay eider (198747, exchange).
Rubly, Grant A., Malvern, Ark.: Smith & Wesson revolver, Model 114 (202086).
Rullmann, Myron, Sr. Washington, D. C.: 5 autographed United States covers (199064).
Rummell, R. M., Chicago, Ill.: 1 first Nonstop Flight cover, San Francisco to New York (202482).
Rundlett, Edwin. (See New York City Department of Parks)
Runhag, Henry, Enkoping, Sweden: 1 cacheted cover (200718).
Runyon, Robert, Brownsville, Tex.: 3 plants from Texas (198707).
Russell, George P., Washington, D. C.: 1 horseshoe crab (202281).
Ryckman, Dr. Raymond E., Loma Linda, Calif.: 182 miscellaneous insects from México (201661). (See also School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine)
Sabrosky, Curtis W., Washington, D. C.: 100 flies, including 5 types, from Brazil, Europe, and United States (199597, 199777); 518 miscellaneous midges, including 15 paratypes, from Michigan (200080). (See also Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Agricultural Research Service, Hntomology Research Branch)
Saksela, Prof. Martti. (See Geologian Laitos)
Salter, William E., Washington, D. C.: 1 horseshoe crab from beach in Calvert County, Md. (199838).
Sanborn Co. Cambridge, Mass.: (Through James L. Jenks, Jr.) Sanborn Instomatie Cardiette #6364 used by James L. Jenks, Jr., and Dr. Paul Dudley White for taking electrocardiogram of whale (199559).
Sanders, Ottys, Dallas, Tex.: 4 type toads (201827).
Sands, Mrs. Muriel E., New York, N. Y.: (Through Peelle & Nichols, Attorneys) 5 historical specimens relating to Gen. George B. McClellan and Union generals (200641).
Santesson, Dr. Rolf. of Systematic Botany)
Sargent, F. H., Falls Church, Va.: 1 phanerogam from Alabama (200449).
Sarles, E. H., Norwood, Ohio: 9 minerals from Bon Azzer, French Morocco, and Hopewell, N. J. (200135).
Sauvan, Dr. P. A. (See Nancy, Université de)
Saxon, R. N., Stafford, Va.: 1 woodcock (200328).
Sbarbaro, Dr. Camillo, Spotorno, Savona, Italy: 22 lichens from Europe (199581, exchange) ; 119 plants chiefly from Africa (201791).
Schaffner, Gerta, Washington, D. C.: 2 phanerogams (200160).
Schallert, Paul O., Altamonte Springs, Fla.: 2 plants from Florida (198754).
Schelpe, Dr. E. A. (See Cape Town, University of)
(See Institute
Scheltema, Rudolf S. (See Maryland Department of Research and HEducation)

<<<Page: 104>>>

Schiller, Dr. Everett L. (See Health, Education and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
Schneck, Louis, Washington, D. C.: Carrying yoke of hand-carved pine, and wrought-iron hand rake from home of Martin Van Buren (202456).
Schmidt, Jack, Lake Worth, Fla.: Approximately 300 land mollusks from Cuba (199538, exchange).
Schmitz, John, Chicago, Ill.: 1 moth parasite and parasitized larva collected in Chicago (2021388).
Schoenfeld, Ralph A. Tacoma, Wash.: 2,570 Mississippi precancels, composite of Mississippi collections of Judge J. W. Ford, Prof. A. F. Gamber, C. W. Sachs, Roger Wilson, Al Zinker, H. A. Pipper, W. H. Field, and R. BH. Blaylock, plus other material secured by donor (199161).
Scholer, Ronald M., Arlington, Va.: Starr percussion revolver, ca. Civil War (198571, exchange).
School of Tropical and Preventive Medicine, Loma Linda, Calif.: (Through Dr. Bruce W. Halstead) 29 fishes from Johnston, Marianas, Palmyra, and Phoenix Islands (192882, exchange); 4 type parrotfishes from Tower Island, Galapagos Islands, collected by Dr. Bruce Halstead and Mr. Bunker, December 30, 1952 (201204, exchange) ; (through Dr. Raymond HE. Rykman) 28 mammals from western United States (200663).
Schott, Guenther L. Aquarium, Inc.)
Schreeder, Carl R. Thermit Corp.)
Schroeder, William C. (See Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology)
Schubert, Dr. Bernice G., Beltsville, Md.: 4 plants (198760) ; 12 photographs of African legumes (199584).
Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne S., Scarsdale, N. Y.: Approximately 350 land and fresh-water mollusks (198694); 281 miscellaneous mollusks (199128).
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Dr. Edward Brinton) 5 crustaceans, including type of a new species (198734).
Sealander, Dr. Jchn A., Jr., Fayetteville, Ark.: 2 type specimens of bigeared bats from Arkansas (198941, exchange).
Seamen’s Church Institute of New York, New York, N. Y.: (Through Jay Dennis) 1 maiden voyage cacheted cover, S. 8. Nieww Amsterdam (202885).
Seamless Rubber Co., New Haven, Conn.: (Through Edwin P. Dawson) An Eveready nurser (199173).
(See Columbia
(See Metal &
Sebastian, Dr. V. O., Madras, India: 5 type tunicates (199470).
Secretaria da Agricultura, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: 17 grasses from Brazil (197482).
Segeler, Curt G., Brooklyn, N. Y.: 1 diopside crystal from Blackburn mine, Cantley, Quebec, and 1 kornerupine from Hinck’s Bridge, Gatineau River, near Kazebazna, Quebec (200452).
Selinger, Mrs. Frank J., Jr., Rockville Center, L. I., N. Y.: (Through Mrs. Paul J. Selinger) 1 complete case of barberdental-bloodletting instruments, in memory of husband (199536).
Selinger, Mrs. Paul J. (See Selinger, Mrs. Frank J., Jr.)
Senger, Clyde M. State College)
Seshadri, Dr. A. R., Bapatla, India: 27 slides of thrips from India (198383, exchange) ; 26 named thrips from India (200224, exchange).
Sette, Oscar. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Shappirio, Joel, Washington, D. C.: 1 apophyllite from Fairfax quarry between Centreville and Gainesville, Va. (199291, loan). (See also Roebling Collection)
Sharp & Dohme, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Seth N. Baker) 4 pieces of early pharmaceutical manufacturing equipment used by donor and Mulford Laboratories prior to 1900 (202250).
Shaw, Awbrey N. (See Shaw, Mrs. Lucena Nash)
Shaw, Harry B. tographic Society)
Shaw, Mrs. Lucena Nash (deceased) : (Through Awbrey N. Shaw) 1 opalescent glass mug, English Bristol, ca. 1790, 6 English wine glasses, pair of French glass vases, ca. 1860, pair French bisque figurines, ca. 1860, Gothic bookcase and satinwood sofa of French Empire period (201041).
Shepherd, Mrs. Elmer R., Washington, D. C.: 2 Quaker bonnets, 3 gauze undercaps, and 1 band box, all of period 1825— 1860 (202248).
Sheppard, Lt. Col. Harvey E., Sheffield, Ala.: 2 Burmese manuscript books on rice paper (201341).
Shulman, Dr. Emanuel V., Washington, D. C.: Cylindrical white pottery vase made by Louis Comfort Tiffany, New York City, 1890’s (201031).
Sievers, Walter R., Johnstown, Pa.: 1 United Nations first-day cover (202384).
Simmons, Frank E., Oglesby, Tex.: 99 land and fresh-water mollusks and 25 insects from Texas (199787).
(See Montana
(See National Pho

<<<Page: 105>>>

Simon, James H., Washington, D. C.: 1 woodcut, “Kurdic in Jerusalem,” by Jacob Pins (200715).
Simpson, Mrs. Walter L., Hurry, Md.: Wedding garments and accessories worn by Adolph L. Scheiblich and Ida Thankful Holycross, February 8, 1894, in Union County, Ohio (200969).
Sinkankas, Comdr. John, Arlington, Va.: 26 cut gems from various world localities (199270).
Sister Marie Caroline. Immaculate, Convent of)
Skotzke, Sigmund C., Milwaukee, Wis.: 34 philatelic specimens (201898).
Slater, Dr. James A., Ames, Iowa: 30 bugs, including 13 paratypes, from Africa and North and South America (201292).
Sleeper, Dr. Elbert L., Columbus, Ohio: 45 beetles from Japan and India (200166) ; 84 beetles, including 7 types, from North and South America, Dominican Republic, India, Africa, and Japan (202352).
Smejkal, Mr., Ljubljana, Jugoslavia : (Through Duhovnik, Dr. Joze) 16 minerals from Stari Trg Mine, Trepca, Jugoslavia (202082), exchange).
Smith, Allyn G., Berkeley, Calif.: 4 rare land mollusks from California (200974) .
Smith, Foster D., Jr., Caracas, Venezuela: 1 phanerogam and 2 birds from Venezuela (199599).
Smith, Dr. Harry M., Whiting, Ind.: Birds, 7 mammals, reptiles, fishes, 528 miscellaneous insects, 3 mollusks, and 4 marine invertebrates from southern Asia (200702).
Smith, Dr. Hobart M. (See Illinois, University of)
Smith, Dr. Lyman B., Washington, D. C.: 653 plants of Maryland and Virginia collected by donor and associates (199200); 99 plants from Santa Catarina, Brazil (200508) ; 477 plants from Brazil, mostly collected by Rev. Raulino Reitz (201605, 202104).
Smith, Dr. Marion E., Amherst, Mass.: 2 marine midges from New Jersey (200467).
Smith, Dr. Roger C., Manhattan, Kans.: 11 spongilla flies from Europe and Nearctie (201646).
Smith, William R., Falls Church, Va.: 3 minerals from Fairfax quarry, near Centreville, Va. (199771, exchange).
(See Mary
Smith, Mrs. William V. (See Dion, Frederick H.) Smithsonian Institution, Washing-
ton, D. C.: Engraving by Giovanni Baptista Peranese entitled “Veduta della Dogana di Terra a Piazza de Pietra” found in collections (201926) ; 2 photographs, “Portrait of Charles Darwin,” and “Portrait of J. F. W.
Herschel,” by Julia Margaret Cameron, found in collections (201994) ; 14 etchings, engravings and mezzotints by various artists (202108) (deposits). (See also following Funds: Canfield, Chamberlain, Dahlgreen, Hickemeyer,
Roebling, Springer, Walcott.) From the Photographie Laboratory: 1,964 photographs of plants (202496).
BUREAU OF AMERICAN HWTHNOLOGY: Casts of archeological material Gollected at Cerro de las Mesas, Veracruz, México, in 1941 (194273); excavated archeological material from La Venta, Tabasco, México (194274) ; 25 pottery vessels from Veraguas, Panama, collected by Dr. Matthew W. Stirling (195872) ; 2 bird bones (199267); 11 stone beads from Panama and 1 effigy bird from México (200850); 9 gold, copper, and pottery objects from Panama, and 2 archaic pottery figurines from México (201080); pottery vessel from Panam4 (201671) ; 26 ethnographical specimens from a _ sub-Andean Indian tribe of Colombia (202489) ; (through A. J. Waring) miscellaneous bones of 7 species of mammals from Sapeloe Island, Ga., carbon-14 determined age about 3,800 years (196412) ; (through Dr. Matthew W. Stirling) 1 snake, 1 gecko, 3 grasshoppers, and 6 marine mollusks from Tobago Island, Panama Bay, collected in 1953 (199026, 201160). River Basin Surveys: 18 archeological specimens from 4 sites in Albeni Falls Reservoir area, Pend Oreille River, Bonner County, Idaho (199182) ; 90 archeological specimens from 2 sites in Cachuma Reservoir area on Santa Ynez River, Santa Barbara County, Calif. (199133); 650 archeological specimens from Site 45 BN 3, McNary Reservoir, Columbia River, Benton County, Wash. (199134) ; pottery, stone, bone, and shell artifacts, and human skeletal material from the Woodruff Ossuary, Phillips County, Kans., 1946 (200125); (through Dr. Robert L. Stephenson) 30 fresh-water mussels from archeological sites in the Missouri Basin (199210, 200877) ; (through Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr.) 57 Oligocene fossil mammal specimens from Canyon Ferry Reservoir area in Montana, collected by Dr. Theodore E. White, June 19538 (199480). Natrona Museum: Collected: 1,802 skins, 4 skeletons, 2 alcoholics, and 1 set of eggs of birds from Thailand and Laos, by Herbert G. Deignan (199510) ; 4 plants from Louisiana, by Herbert G. Deignan (202074) ; 50 marine mollusks from British Guiana, by Dr. Clifford Evans, Jr. (200255) ; 3 specimens of fossil porpoise from Calvert formation, Camp Roosevelt, Calvert County, Md., by Dr.

<<<Page: 106>>>

Remington Kellogg, Roger L. Batten, Dr. David H. Dunkle, and Wallace L. Ashby, May 1954 (202370) ; 2,612 plants from the Isle of Pines, Cuba, Florida Keys, Maryland, and Texas, by E. P. Killip (198807, 199923, 200332); 1,193 plants from Michigan, New York, Virginia, and Wisconsin, by Conrad V. Morton (199151, 201651); 116 plants from New York by Dr. Velva BE. Rudd (198910) ; tional Science Foundation) 24,161 plants, 29 mammals, 279 wood specimens, 528 mollusks, 363 marine invertebrates, 2 fishes, and 1,420 insects from Fiji by Dr. A. C. Smith, and in part by Katherine and Michael A. Smith (201527) ; 2,780 plants from Brazil by Dr. Lyman B. Smith (199415); 13 phanerogams by Dr. Lyman B. Smith (200755) ; 1,148 plants from México by Dr. Ernest R. Sohns (200333) ; 28 miscellaneous minerals from Colorado and Utah, by Dr. George Switzer (202425) ; 23 plants from Maryland and Pennsylvania, by Dr. Egbert H. Walker (201087) ; 126 plants from Ryukyu Islands by Dr. Egbert H. Walker (202076) ; 745 skins, 8 alcoholic skins, 10 skeletons, and 7 eggs of birds, 1 frog, 2 snails, from Panama, by Dr. A. Wetmore and Watson M. Perrygo (199183) ; 161 bird skins, 18 bird skeletons, and 2 sets bird eggs from Venezuela, by Dr. A. Wetmore (202164) ; 512 bird skins, 7 bird skeletons, 2 mammals, and 6 insects from Panama, by Dr. A. Wetmore (202328). Purchased: 2 Formosan macaques (195230); 893 plants collected in Iran, Persia, and Afghanistan by Dr. Karl H. Rechinger (199853, 201388) ; 187 ferns from Kuala Lumpur (199854) ; lithograph, ‘‘View of Washington,” by Robert P. Smith, 1850 (201248) ; 31 casts made from R. F. Damon molds of fossil primates and men (201489); reproductions of stone earving from Pert and gold plaque from Panama (202320). Made in Anthropological Laboratory: Casts of Mexican pottery figurines in American Museum of Natural History (201490). NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL ParK: 25 birds (199694); 380 mammals (202503) ; (through Dr. William M. Mann) 61 fishes from aquaria (201900).
Sniffen, Harold S. (See Mariners Museum)
Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. José M. Pojan) 15 shrimps and 4 crabs from Orinoco Delta region, Vene-
guela (197865); (through Brother Gines) 748 plants from Venezuela (200020).
Solem, Alan. versity of)
(See Michigan, Uni-
(in cooperation with Na-
Sollers, Helen, Washington, D. C.: 1,752 beetles, mostly North American, from J. A. Hyslop collection (201639).
Ségrensen, Henning. (See Universitetets, Mineralogisk-Geologiske Institut)
Soukup, Dr. J., Lima, Pert: 170 plants collected in Pere (199152, 201345, 202420).
South African Institute for Medical Research, Johannesburg, South Africa: (Through Dr. EF. Zumpt) 15 flies from Africa and Japan (201642, exchange).
Southern California, University of, Allan Hancock Foundation, Los Angeles, Calif. : 302 marine algae from Viet Nam (199957, exchange).
Southern Gem Mining Co., El Paso, Tex.; (Through Col. EH. M. Barron) 1 wulfenite, and 1 vanadinite from Los Lamentos, Chihuahua, México (201815, exchange).
Southern Methedist University, Dallas, Tex.: 1 grass from Texas (199429) ; (through Dr. E. P. Cheatum) 9 branchiuran crustaceans from eye of catfish, collected at Dallas Aquarium (197387).
Southern Rhodesia, Government of: Mint set of Queen Elizabeth II pictorial postage series (199505).
Southworth, Charles, Thedford, Ontario: 35 fragmentary Devonian fossil fish bones from Arkona formation of Ontario, collected by donor (200221).
Spangler, Dr. Paul J., Columbia, Mo. : 54 miscellaneous insects from United States (200772) ; 9 beetles and 1 collembola from. United States (201641).
Spanton, H. G., Buenos Aires, Argentina: First-day cover marking fourth eentenary of founding of Santiago del Estero (199507) ; 1 first-day cover, and 1 descriptive folder, “La Uruguay” Stamps (199868) ; 6 philatelic specimens from Argentina (202378).
Spence, Dr. David, Pacific Grove, Calif.: (Through Austin H. Clark) Whip for flogging, from household of Russian Grand Duke Michael Alexandrovitech (200524).
Spencer, K. A., London, England: 20 leaf miners from England (201660).
Sperry, John L., Riverside, Calif.: 2,257 miscellaneous insects from North and South America (199281, 200464, 201288).
Sperry, Prof. Omer E. (See Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas)
Springer Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 15 echinoderms from Devonian of Ontario (200134); 3869 echinoderms from the Pennsylvanian Francis shale of Ada, Okla. (201882).
Springer, Stewart. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)

<<<Page: 107>>>

Squance, D. R., Royal Oak, Vancouver Island: 1 plant from Canada (200019).
Srivastava, Dr. H. D., Izatnagar, India: 7 fresh-water mollusks from India (198680).
Stabler-Leadbeater Apothecary Shop. (See Landmarks Society of Alexandria, Inc.)
Stannard, Dr. Lewis J. (See Illinois State Natural History Survey)
Stearns, R. E., Baltimore, Md.: 1,627 archeological specimens consisting of ceramie remains, stone, and metal, including items of aboriginal and white origin from sites along Patuxent River (200211).
Steater, Mrs. Emma Hostetter, Washington, D. C.: 1 piece “old copperas” linen check, about 1800 (202234).
Steele, Paul H., Sacramento, Calif. : 2 marine mollusks from BHaster Island (198894).
Steen, Charles, Moab, Utah: 1 pitchblende from Mi Vida mine, 30 miles south of Moab (202464).
Steger, Dan, Tampa, Fla.: 4 marine mollusks from Gulf of Mexico (198789).
Steger, Mrs. Dan, Tampa, Fla.: 14 marine mollusks from Gulf of Mexico (199640).
Steiger, Robert F., Greenville, 8. C.: 1 sand dollar from Tertiary of South Carolina (199911).
Stein, Hilda A., Carbondale, Ill.: 4 salamanders from Dlinois (202134).
Steiner, Mrs. Mona Lisa, Pasay City, Rizal, P. I.: 253 plants collected in Philippine Islands (201609).
Stephen, Dr. W. P., Corvallis, Oreg.: 19 paratypes of bees from Canada
(198804).
Stephenson, Dr. Robert L. (See Smithsonian Institution, Bureaw of American Ethnology, River Basin Surveys)
Stevens, Dr. Edward H., Rapid City, S. Dak.: 1 augelite from Bob Ingersoll pegmatite, Keystone, S. Dak. (200453).
Stevens, William T., Charlottesville, Va.: 1 cut pink tourmaline from Mozambique (200705, loan).
Steward, Robert H., Balboa Heights, C. Z.: Approximately 300 marine mollusks from Limon Bay, Colon, Panama (199463).
Stewart, Melvin, and Lame, Prof. C. C., Lewiston, Idaho: (Through Ted Larrabee) 2 garnets and a 7.2 carat eut stone of star garnet from Emerald Creek, Benewah County, Idaho (199219).
Stewart, Robert H. (See Interior, U. 8S. Department of the, Geological Survey )
Steyskal, George C., Grosse Ile, Mich.: 18 flies from United States (200465).
Stirling, Dr. Matthew W. Smithsonian Institution, American Ethnology)
Stockdale, Robert E., Ravenna, Ohio: Human skull, lacking lower jaw, from near Ravenna (200123).
Stockmar, Mrs. Sadie E., Chillum, Md.: Japanese smoking outfit and Chinese brass brazier (199499).
Stockvis, Aubrey Philip, Arlington, Va.: 12 “Corfu” overprints on Greek stamps, all faked overprints (203399).
Stekes Machine Co. F. J. (See Columbia University, and Jenkins Laboratories)
Stolow, J. & H., New York, N. Y.: (Through Finbar Kenny) 3 United States commemorative stamps, and 4 Mongolian stamps (202475).
Stone, Mrs. Mary A., Richmond, Va.: (Through G. Alexander Robertson) 2 gastroliths from Richmond (199036).
Strasburg, Donald W. (See National Research Council, Pacific Science Board)
Strauss, Dr. Maurice J., New Haven, Conn. : 72-page postage stamp collection depicting history of medicine (200741, loan).
Strelak, Joseph S., Waukegan, IIl.: American Air Mail Society “Jet” flight cover and folder, and New York “Air Mail Field” folder and air letter sheet (199065); 43 philatelic specimens (200417, 200730, 202374).
Strohecker, Dr. H. F., Coral Gables, Wla.: 31 crickets, grasshoppers, mantids, and katydids, including 138 types (199332); 5 beetles from TFlorida (201645).
Struhall, L. J., Austin, Tex.: 1 labradorite from Byrd ranch, Alpine, Brewster County, Tex. (199859).
Stumm, Dr. Erwin C., Ann Arbor, Mich.: 4 Mississippian brachiopods from Michigan (199703).
Stupka, Arthur. (See Interior, U. 8S. Department of the, National Park Service)
Suarez, Dr. Ernesto Aliaga, La Paz, Bolivia: 16 plants from Bolivia (193026).
Sul Ress State College, Alpine, Tex. : (Through Prof. Barton H. Warnock) 1 grass from Texas (201348).
Sundstrom, Gustaf. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Sussex County Archaeological Association, Lewes, Del.: 13 lots of European artifacts from Derrickson Site, north of Lewes (202492).
Swan, Dr. Emery F., Durham, N. H.: 3 isopods from Cape Neddick, Maine (198856).
(See Bureau of

<<<Page: 108>>>

Swann, David H., Urbana, Ill.: 9 brachiopods from the Devonian, deep well in Coles County, Ili. (200052).
Sweeney, Mrs. Edward C., Washington, D. C.: 59 plants collected in French West Africa and Nigeria (201225).
Swoboda, Edward R., Los Angeles, Calif.: 2 gems: sphene from Ojos Negros, Baja California; amethyst from Four Peaks, Ariz. (201353, exchange) ; 1 beryl from Banaval, Itopore, Minas Gerais, Brazil, and 1 sphene from Ojos Negros, Baja California
(201855). Taipei City Zoological Garden, Taipei, Taiwan, Formosa: (Through
Wu Kueng-yu) 2 Formosan macaques (200337).
Takewaki, Dr. Kiyoshi. Imperial University)
Tateoka, Dr. Tsuguo, Shizuoka, Japan: 50 Japanese grasses (201230, exchange).
Taylor, Augustus C. (deceased) : (Through Elizabeth J. Taylor) 1 single hanging type show globe complete with fixture (201898).
Taylor, Ralph, Ann Arbor, Mich.: (Through Robert S. Campbell) 3 paratypes of North American catfishes (202331).
Templin, Dr. Lucinda de Leftwich, Hl Paso, Tex.: Collection of antique and period jewelry presented as a memorial to donor’s mother, Ella Rice Templin (200122).
Tennessee, University of, Knoxville, Tenn.: 32 Mexican ferns (198954); 2 plants collected in Tennessee (202418, exchange).
Terrell, Edward E., Cincinnati, Ohio: 11 grasses from Ohio (200628).
Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.: (Through Dr. Marshall R. Wheeler) 138 biting midges from Arizona (199671) ; (through J. C. Walter, Jr.) 4 Permian Rustler fossils from Culberson County, Tex. (200186); (through Dr. Clark Hubbs) 21 fishes from Texas (200376, exchange); (through Henry Hildebrand) 40 marine mollusks and 1 coral from western part of Gulf of Mexico (201276).
Texas A. and M. College System, College Station, Tex.: 1 grass from Texas (198783) .
Texas Game, Fish & Oyster Commission, Corpus Christi, Tex.: 3 diatoms from Texas (199028).
Thaanum, D. D., Honolulu, T. H.: 33 marine mollusks from Japan (199716).
Thalmann, Dr. Hans E., Stanford, Calif. : 4 Recent type Foraminifera from off Baracoa, Cuba (201499).
Thatcher, Dr. T. O., Fort Collins, Colo. : 1 beetle holotype from Guatemala (201890).
(See Tokyo
Thietje, Dr. Walter. (See Iowa, State University of)
Thomen, Luis F. (See Dominican Republic, Government of)
Thompson, Daniel, Ensenada, P. R.: 3 scale models representing older-type mills of Puerto Rico (200380).
Thompson, Dr. Howard K., Boston, Mass.: 3 Liberian philatelic specimens (202427).
Thompson, Dr. Rufus. University of)
Thoreau, Prof. J., Louvain, Belgium: 7 minerals from Belgian Congo (200819, 201687, exchange).
Thorn, Mrs. Marvin D., McLean, Va.: Girl’s blue dress and pair of high button shoes worn by Miss Blanche Stewart of Boston, Mass., late 19th century, and picture of Miss Stewart wearing dress (200763).
Threlkeld, Dr. W. L. (See Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station)
Thurman, Mrs. Ernestine B., Chevy Chase, Md.: Approximately 300 marine mollusks, 6 mosquitoes, and 9 barnacles from Thailand (198802, 200778); approximately 100,000 insects and an arachnid from Northern Thailand, collected by the late Lt. Comdr. Deed C. Thurman, Jr., and donor (202488).
Tibbetts, Capt. Ted, APO San Francisco, Calif.: 118 miscellaneous insects, centipedes, millipedes, and 9 mollusks, all from Korea (198815, 199089, 201886).
Tiensnu, Dr. L., Helsinki-To616, Finland: 95 flies from Finland, 4 genera and 28 species new to _ collection (201289).
Tierney, J. Q., Washington, D. C.: 1 hydrocoral from Cross Sound off Cape Spencer, Alaska (199238) ; 204 marine invertebrates (200055).
Tierney, Peter, Washington, D. C.: 1 marine mollusk from California (201364).
Tilden, Dr. J. W., San Jose, Calif.: 6 butterflies from California (200032).
Tilleaux, Eugene A., Arlington, Va.: 8 posters, period of World War II (199084).
Timberlake, P. H., Riverside, Calif.: 57 beetles and 19 bees from United States (201506).
Tissot, Dr. A. N. versity of)
Titterington, Dr. P. F., St. Louis, Mo.: Notched human tooth from northeast of Monk’s Mound, Cahokia, Ill. (201989).
Todd, Ruth. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey)
Tokyo, University of, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. Hisashi Kuno) 48 rocks from the Hakone Mountains, Japan, and 1 osumilite (198998, exchange) ;
(See Kansas,
(See Florida, Uni

<<<Page: 109>>>

(through Dr. Masaji Honda) 7 Japanese plants (200817, exchange).
Tokyo Imperial University, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. Kiyoshi Takewaki and Dr. T. Fujii) 24 samples of Alcyonarian corals (200678).
Tomiyama, Dr. Ichiro. (See Misaki Marine Biological Station)
Townes, Dr. H. K., San Francisco, Calif.: 5 paratypes of parasitic wasps from Philippines (201293).
Townsend, Earl C., Jr., Indianapolis, Ind.: 101 silver beads from Fulton County, Ill. (199615, exchange).
Traub, Lt. Col. Robert. (See Defense, U. S. Department of, Department of the Army)
Treasury, U. S. Department of the, Washington, D. C.: 46 coins: 2 sets of United States coins, 1953; 2 sets proof coins, 1954; 2 sets Booker T. Washington—George Washington Carver Commemorative half dollars (201294); 57,955 assorted Revenues and Revenue proofs (201555) ; 25 pruta and 50 pruta coins of Israel (202245) ; 92 Japanese coins (2024738); 2,132 counterfeit United States and foreign stamps, and 64 counterfeit singles from d’Utassy Estate (202118, deposit); (through Granville S. Borden) 4 quartz with gold specimens, and 1 quartz with altaite from IJIdaho—Maryland mines, Grass Valley, Calif. (200474).
Trechman, C. T., Castle Eden, County Durham, England: 10 Permian invertebrate fossils from England, and 3 barnacles from New Zealand (200223, exchange).
Trembley, Helen L. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of, Public Health Service)
Tressler, Dr. Willis, Washington, D. C.: 12 type ostracods from Texas and México (200507).
Troelsen, Dr. J. C., Copenhagen, Denmark: 29 foraminiferal paratypes from Paleocene of Denmark (201015).
Tucker, Dr. J. M., Davis, Calif.: 18 plants collected in México (202231).
Tulane University, New Orleans, La.: (Through Dr. George H. Penn) 157 bugs from Louisiana (200822, exchange) ; 88 mosquitoes from United States (201503); (through Dr. George H. Penn and Edward N. Lambremont) 16 butterflies from Korea (202111).
Turner, Alfred W., Carlos A. Carrillo, México: 19 beetles from México (198955).
Turner, Rodney, Portsmouth, Va.: Oligochaete worms from Dismal Swamp, Va. (198797).
Tuttle, Eric, Fall River, Mass.: 14 fresh-water mollusks from Fall River (199169).
Tvedt, Reidar. (See United Nations Postal Administration)
United Nations Postal Administration, New York, N. Y.: (Through Reidar Tvedt) 48 exhibit frames of UNPA philatelic material (198872, loan) ; 3-cent United Nations embossed envelope (199862); first-day cover, United Nations Universal Postal Union issue, with official cachet (199145); 4 firstday covers (200419, 200766, 202376).
Universidad de Concepcién, Concepcién, Chile: 29 plants from Chile (200405, 200957).
Universidad Nacional de San Marcos, Lima, Pert: 1 plant collected in Peru (201808) ; (through Dr. Octavio Velarde Nufiez) 32 plants from Perti (199268).
Universidade Rural, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 30 plants collected by H. Monteiro in Brazil (202170, exchange).
Universitatis Jagellonicae, Krakow,
Poland: 156 miscellaneous plants (201871, exchange). Université d’Alger, Algiers, North
Africa: (Through Dr. F. Bernard) 50 ants from Mediterranean region (200587, exchange).
Université de Nancy, Nancy, France: (Through Dr. P. A. Sauvan) 203 Jurassic and Cretaceous brachiopods from France (200706, exchange) ; 571 plants collected in Europe by J. Baagoe (202228, exchange).
Universitetets Botaniske Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark: 1,934 miscellaneous plants (199419, exchange).
Universitetets, Mineralogiska and Geologiske Institut, Copenhagen, Denmark: (Through Dr. Henning S¢rensen) 1 gunnbjarnite from Hold with Hope, East Greenland (201498, exchange); 11 minerals from Greenland (201908, exchange) ; 17 nepheline syenites from Julianehaab region, Greenland (202465, exchange).
University College, London, London, England: 6384 fossil invertebrates from England (200757, exchange).
Unknown: 1 U. S. Internal Revenue stamp and 2 British covers (202431) ; 225 philatelic specimens, photographs, letters, and clippings (202502).
Uno, Kakuo, Okayama-ken, Japan: 157 Japanese ferns (198907, exchange) ;
100 Japanese grasses (201229, exchange). Upjohn Co., Kalamazoo, Mich.:
(Through Donald T. Meredith) 2 boards used by the donor around 1890 to measure size and count pills (202337). Utah, University of, Salt Lake City, Utah: 3 plants from Utah (200833). Utinomi, Dr. Huzio. (See Kyoto Imperial University )

<<<Page: 110>>>

Utnick, Morris, Brooklyn, N. Y.: Scale model of western Wells Fargo stagecoach (200586).
Vaiden, M. G., Rosedale, Miss. : 2 blue jays from Mississippi (198775).
Valerio, Prof. Manuel, San José, Costa Rica: 11 marine and fresh-water mollusks from Costa Rica (1987381).
Van Cleave, Estate of Harley J., Urbana, Ill.: 2,871 specimens of Acanthocephala and ‘Trematoda, including many types; also the Carus collection of photographs and negatives (198314).
Vandenbulcke, Jacques, Rome, Italy: 12 crystals of pyrite from Rio Elbano mine, Island of Elba (200963).
van der Kuyp, Dr. E., Paramaribo, Surinam: 72 mollusks from Surinam (199126, 199827); 4 mosquitoes from Surinam (200029).
van der Vecht, Dr. J., Bogor, Indonesia : 82 wasps, including 16 paratypes, from Indonesia (198818, 202110, exchange).
Vanegas P., Agustin. gua, Government of)
Van Ells, Dr. M. E., Ann Arbor, Mich. : 6 oligochaetes (201332).
Van Itallie, Philip H. Laboratories)
Van Noten, Jean, Englewood, N. J.: 16 Belgian semi-postal stamps designed by donor (202429).
Vargo, Mrs. Kathryn Fritch, Washington, D. C., and Bresser, Mrs. Esther Fritch, Cincinnati, Ohio: 9 costume specimens, ca. 1890 to 1910 (200461) ; 2 porcelain-head dolls, doll’s trunk and clothing, used by donors’ mother, Effie Dora White (202494).
Varimex. (See Poland, Government
(See Nicara-
(See Wyeth
Vazquez, Alberto W., Arlington, Va.: 10 marine invertebrates, 1 frog, and 2 snakes collected in Minnesota, South Dakota, and Virginia (200316, 200487) ; 10 leeches, 2 nematodes (201613); 5 fresh-water mussels from Fairfax County, Va. (201757).
Velarde Nunez, Dr. Octavio. Universidad de San Marcos)
Veloso, Dr. H. P. (See Ministerio da Educacéo e Saude)
Verrill, A. Hyatt, Chiefland, Fla.: 17 miscellaneous insects from Florida (200026, 200165); 1 fresh-water mollusk dredged from off Tobago, B. W. I. (200603).
Viener, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice A., Washington, D. C.: Woodcut, “Street Brawl in Jerusalem,” by Jacob Pins (201656).
Villalobos, Dr. Alejandre, México, D. F.; 3 type mysids from Grutas de Quintero, Tamaulipas, México (200108, exchange).
(See
Virginia, University of, Charlottesville, Va.: (Through Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.) 12 fishes from Lithia Springs, Hillsborough County, Fla. (201234).
Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station, Blacksburg, Va.: (Through Dr. W. L. Threlkeld) 2 parasitic worms representing types of new species (200881).
Voigt, Walter H., Ruxton, Md.: Onehorse open sleigh of colonial period, supposed to have been used by Gen. George Washington in his Jersey campaign (195668).
Voss, Gilbert L., Coral Gables, Fla.: Holotype of new species of cephalopod from Florida (199170); 7 pelecypods from the Pliocene of Florida (199926).
Vuorelainen, Yrjo, Outokumpu, Finland: 3 uvarovites from Outokumpu (201793, exchange).
Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institution: Approximately 10,000 Permian and Pennsylvanian invertebrate fossils from West Texas, southern Kansas, and northern Oklahoma, collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper and W. T. Allen in summer of 19538; 55 blocks from the Permian of West Texas for etching (199311) ; approximately 625 fossil mammals from early Tertiary of central and southwestern Wyoming; collected by Dr. C. Lewis Gazin and Franklin L. Pearce during June, July, and August 1953 (199551) ; about 7,500 Middle and Lower Devonian invertebrate fossils from Ohio, Michigan, Ontario and New York, collected by Dr. Cooper and Josephine W. Cooper (199960) ; 3 specimens of fossil amber containing insects, from Germany (200164) ; 4 fossil vertebrate specimens from Jackson, Hinds County, Miss., and near Melvin, Choctaw County, Ala., collected from Hocene Upper Jackson formation by J. Magruder Sullivan (200409); 500 Lower Cretaceous pelecypods and gastropods from Edwards formation, Lake Whitney, Tex., and Glen Rose formation, Burnet, Tex., collected by David and Helen V. Nicol, October and November 1953 (200531) ; 500 Silurian and Devonian invertebrate fossils from Cumberland and vicinity, collected by Dr. and Mrs. G. Arthur Cooper, Dr. Arthur Boucot, and Roger Batten (202240).
Walker, Dr. Boyd W. (See California, University of) Walker, Dr. Charles F. (See Michi-
gan, University of)
Walker, Dr. Egbert H., Washington, D. C.: 41 fossil plants and approximately 200 invertebrate fossils from the Pennsylvanian, vicinity of Peoria, Ill. (199517) ; 40 plants collected in Vir

<<<Page: 111>>>

ginia and Maryland (202106). also Chase, V. H.)
Walker, W. C. Ine., Charles)
Wallace, Frank, New York, N. Y.: 34 woodcuts for special exhibition September 1953 (199271, loan).
Wallace, Dr. S. Lee, Augusta, Ga.: 6 crustaceans (199354).
Wallen, Dr. I. E., Stillwater, Okla.: 135 land and fresh-water mollusks from Oklahoma (195310, 199039).
Wallens, Richard L., Chicago, IIl.: Shoulder-sleeve insignia of 10th Mountain Division, U.S. Army, World War II (199941).
Walter, J. C., Jr. (See Texas, University of)
Walton, Capt. Bryce C. (See Defense, U. 8S. Department of, Department of the Army)
Warburg, Dr. E. F. (See Oxford University, Druce Herbarium)
Ward, Dr. Justus C., Arlington, Va.: 1 dry plate camera, 2 glass-plate holders, and 1 lens and shutter combination (199186).
Ward, Philip H., Jr., Philadelphia, Pa.: 2,032 United States Carriers and Locals, and foreign postage stamps (199066) ; 12 United States stamps and 527 Chinese stamps (202487).
Wardell, Mike, New York, N. Y.: 1 cacheted first-day cover (200770).
Ware, Robert E., Clemson, S. C.: 1 copepod collected from catfish in vicinity of Clemson (199212).
Waring, A. J. (See Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology)
Waring, P. Alston, New Hope, Pa.: 20 plants collected in India (201985).
Warnock, Prof. Barton H. (See Sul Ross State College)
Warsaw, Max M., Highland Park, IIl.: 1 wooden bottle corker with brass fittings and rubber washer, described in American Druggist Circular, 1857 (199535).
Washington, University of, Arboretum, Seattle, Wash.: 8 plants (201034).
Washington State College, Pullman, Wash.: (Through Dr. M. T. James) 3 flies, including 1 paratype, from United States (199775).
Waskey, Frank H., Olney, Md.: 8 pseudomorphs of calcite after glauberite from Alaska on Arctic Ocean (200321).
Wass, Marvin L., Pass-a-Grille, Fla.: 110 marine invertebrates collected at Alligator Point and Pass-a-Grille, Ma., by Dr. Harold J. Humm and donor (200042).
Watkins, Mrs. Arthur, Washington, D. C.: Man’s winter overcoat of carly 19th century (199377).
(See (See Pfizer and Co.,
Watson, Alfred, Buffalo, N. Y.: 45 pictorial photographs for special exhibition, October and November 1953 (199963, loan).
Weaver, Ken. graphic Society)
Webb, J. H., Rochester, N. Y.: 87 marine mollusks, including some rare species (198934, exchange) ; 57 marine mollusks from Japan and the Philippines (200168).
Webb, Walter F., St. Petersburg, Fla.: 99 marine mollusks from Margarita Island and north coast of Venezuela (199571, 199751).
Weber, Walter A., Washington, D. C.: 2 bobeats from the Adirondack Mountains, New York (200167).
Webster, Grady L., Cambridge, Mass. : 18 plants collected in southern United States and Cuba (201496).
Wedel, Dr. Waldo R., Washington, D. C.: 150 surface-collected archeological materials from sites in Kansas and North Dakota, August 1953 (200124) ; 4 fresh-water mussels from Kansas (201248).
Weeks, C. A. Meredith, N. H.: (Through William T. Allen) 1 tourmaline from Black Mountain, Maine (201235).
Weisenhaus, Betty, Port Isabel, Tex. : 4 marine mollusks from Port Isabel (201948).
Weisman, D. M., Raleigh, N. C.: 2 beetles from North Carolina (198921).
Welch, Prof. Winona. (See DePauw University )
Wellons Gallery, New York, N. Y.: (Through Roy G. Kaader) 30 etchings by Hugene Higgins for special exhibition, November 1953 (200024, loan).
Wentworth, Edward N., Washington, D. C.: (Through J. V. Hurson) 2 sections of cattle metacarpal bones such as were furnished by Armour and Co. for manufacture of bone hairpipes for the Indian trade (199951).
West, Dr. Erdman. (See Florida, University of)
West Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.: 224 plants collected in West Virginia (201606, exchange).
Westinghouse Air Brake Co., Wilmerding, Pa.: Bust of George Westinghouse; engineer’s brake valve, ca. 1869; automatic triple valve, ca. 1872; AB automatie triple valve, ca. 19538; air brake exhibit panel, and air brake diagram panel (199361).
Wetmore, Dr. A., Washington, D. C.: A silver Balboa piece of Panama (198776) ; 1 chaffinch from Denmark (200212) ; gold ornament from Veraguas, Panamé (202321); 19 mammals from Kansas (202354).
(See National Geo

<<<Page: 112>>>

Weyhe Gallery, New York, N. Y.: (Through Martha Dickinson) 21 woodcuts by Leona Pierce for exhibition October 1953 (199595, loan) ; 27 etchings by Milton Goldstein, together with zinc plate and 6 progressive proofs of “Child’s World” for special exhibition January 1954 (200636, loan).
Wharton, Dr. Charles, Gainesville, Fla.: 45 plants collected in Cambodia under auspices of Coolidge Foundation (195349) ; 87 snake skulls from Dr. Moichiro Maki’s collection (199784).
Wharton, Dr. G. W. (See Duke University )
Wheeler, H. E., Helena, Ala.: 92 land and fresh-water mollusks from Alabama and Texas (199710).
Wheeler, Dr. Marshall R., Austin, Tex.: 2 paratypes of midges (201511). (See also Texas, University of)
Whelden, Dr. Roy M., Schenectady, N. Y.: 38 eryptograms (198758, exchange).
Whicher, L. S., Richmond, Hngland: 356 beetles from England (200423, exchange).
White, Dr. Paul Dudley, Boston, Mass.: A harpoon electrode used for taking Beluga whale’s electrocardio-
gram (198578). Whittington, Dr. Harry B. Cambridge, Mass.: 27 late Ordovician Sweden
brachiopods from Dalarne, (201879). (See also Harvard UniMuseum of Comparative
versity, Zoology)
Wiggins, Dr. Ira L. Fairbanks, Alaska: 2 wolverines from Alaska (198810, 198720).
Wigley, Roland L. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the, Fish and Wildlife Service)
Wilcox, John A., Albany, N. Y.: 1 beetle from Florida (200975).
Wilcox, Leroy, Speonk, N. Y.: 18 mollusks (202115).
Willeford, Harvey D.: (Through Richard W. Lewis, Jr.) 1 enargite crystal from the Quiruvilea mine, La Libertad, Perti (201283, loan).
Williams, Dr. Hermann Warner, Jr., Washington, D. C.: Carved African neckrest, Ojibwa hair pipe breastplate, early Massachusetts wrought iron lamp, and tinder box, complete (202162, exchange).
Williams, Lucia Kirk, Washington, D. C.: Silver Indian peace medal of Andrew Johnson, collected by Lt. William Noble Williams, father of donor (200386).
Williamsen, M. C. Lomb Optical Co.)
Willing, Ora Lee, Nanticoke, Md.: Ladies watch, marked “The James R. Armiger Co., Baltimore, Md.” (200182).
(See Bausch &
Willis, Mrs. G. B., Alexandria, Va.: 18 specimens of period art and textiles (202490, loan).
Wilson, Prof. C. A., State College, Miss.: 2 paratypes of waterboatmen (199381).
Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., Anchorage, Alaska: 1 type copepod from WNatchitoches Parish, La., collected by Walter G. Moore, April 1953 (200109).
Winokur, Seymour. (See Winokur, Dr. William)
Winokur, Dr. William; Winokur, Seymour; Hermanoff, Irvin; and Hollander, Lawrence, Detroit, Mich.: 1,468 philatelie specimens of Papal States stamps contained in 8 volumes (200460).
Wint, General Theodore J. (deceased) : (Through Mrs. C. H. Hawley) Chinese national flag of latter part of 19th century (200003, bequest).
Winter, Dr. Kenneth B. (See Wyoming Game and Fish Commission)
Wisconsin, University of, Madison, Wis.: 6 plants from Wisconsin and Arizona (201608, exchange); (through Mrs. Margaret Bergseng) 4 ferns from the West Indies (199540).
Wisconsin State Historical Society,
Madison, Wis.: 1 bottle GarnierLamoureux & OCo.’s “Granules de Semence Colchique” (201518).
Witschi, Prof. Emil, lowa City, Iowa: 2 type frogs (202025).
Witt, William, Arlington, Va.: Collection of reptiles and amphibians (202361).
Women’s International Stamp Club, New York, N. Y.: 2 souvenir cacheted first-day cancellations marking 300th anniversary of New York City (200744).
Wong, Mrs. Marianne S., Warsaw, Ind.: 1 silver chatelaine from Germany, and a steel belt buckle with silver inlay from Yugoslavia (200320).
Woodring, Dr. W. P. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the, Geological Survey)
Woodruff, Iva M., Washington, D. C.: Black grenadine shawl worn by Mrs. Amelia Hickok Bosworth of Ohio about 1870 (198814).
Woolsey, Heathcote M., Kent, Conn.: 2 marine mollusks from Jamaica (200777) ; 5 marine mollusks from Antigua and Tobago, British West Indies (202027).
Woods, Loren P. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Wright, C. W., London, England: 86 Mesozoic and Tertiary invertebrate fossils from England (200708).
Wu Kueng-Yu. (See Taipei City Zoological Garden)
Wyant, D.G. (See Kenda, JozZe)
Wyeth Laboratories, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Philip H. Van Itallie) 4

<<<Page: 113>>>

colored reproductions of paintings by Dean Cornwell from series ‘Pioneers of American Medicine” (200742).
Wygodzinsky, Dr. Petr, Tucumaén, Argentina: 52 Sylvicola and associated pupal skins from Argentina (199807, exchange) ; 1 paratype bug from Argentina (201892).
Wyoming Game & Fish Commission, Laramie, Wyo.: (Through Dr. Kenneth B. Winter) 7 land mollusks (199717).
Yagi, Dr. Kenzo, Tomizawa, Sendai, Japan: 21 rocks and 2 minerals from Usu voleano, Japan (200079, exchange).
Yale University, New Haven, Conn.: 1 plant collected in Peri (201621); 1 bird (202322, exchange).
Yochelson, Ellis L., Washington, D. C.: Approximately 150 land mollusks from Utah and Colorado (200977).
Yoder, Dr. Hatton, Washington, D. C.: 1 type vermiculite from Loolekop, Palabora, Northeastern Transvaal (200759).
Young, Dr. Frank N., Bloomington, Ind.: 27 beetles from United States (199756).
Yugoslavia, Government of, Direction General des Postes, Belgrade: 9 YugoSlavian stamps (199872, 200724); (through M. Radalj) 3 stamps from Yugoslavia (202382).
Ziebell, Charles, Corvallis, Oreg.: 9 fresh-water mollusks from Oregon (199131).
Zollman, Joseph, New York, N. Y.: FKirst-day cover franked with copies of United Nations Universal Postal Union stamps (198875).
Zoologisch Museum, Amsterdam, Netherlands: 1 Curacao grasshopper sparrow (199657, exchange).
Zoologische Sammlung des Bayerischen Staates, Munich, Germany: (Through Dr. Walter Forster) 100 Huropean and Asiatic butterflies (200463, exchange).
Zoologisches Institut, Tiibingen, Germany: (Through Prof. Dr. Hans M. Peters) 6 marine invertebrates from El Salvador (198957).
Zumpt, Dr. F. (See South African Institute for Medical Research)

<<<Page: 114>>>



<<<Page: 115>>>

is cet a We

<<<Page: 116>>>



<<<Page: 117>>>

3 9088 0 34

<<<Page: 118>>>

" ~ —
‘rempsslon

<<<Page: 119>>>



<<<Page: 120>>>



<<<Page: 121>>>



<<<Page: 122>>>

