<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>

| on bea
‘The United States National Museum 1964 ANNUAL REPORT

<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>

The United States
National Museum
Annual Report for the Year knded June 30, 1964

<<<Page: 5>>>

Unrtrep States NatronaL Museum,
Unpbrr DiIrEcTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D.C., August 15, 1964.
Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1964.
Very respectfully, Frank A. Taytor, Director, U.S. National Museum. S. Ditton Ripwey, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. II

<<<Page: 6>>>

Contents
ACCESSIONS aa
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Anthropology Zoology . : Entomology . Botany : Paleobiology . Mineral Sciences ; Science and Technology . Arts and Manufactures Civil BED Stonyenieae ee Armed Forces History .
Donors TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS
100 105 107 111 115 130

<<<Page: 7>>>

June 30, 1964
United States National Museum
Director: Frank A. Taylor
Registrar: Helena M. Weiss Conservator: Charles H. Olin Chemist: Jacqueline S. Olin
Museum or Natura History
Director: T. Dale Stewart
Assistant Director: R.S. Cowan Assistant Director for Oceanography: I. E. Wallen Mabel A. Byrd, Administrative Officer
Department of Anthropology: Waldo R. Wedel, chairman
ARCHEOLOGY : Clifford Evans, Jr., curaWilliam H. Crocker, associate curator tor Richard B. Woodbury, curator PHysiIcaL ANTHROPOLOGY: J. LawGus W. Van Beek, associate curator rence Angel, curator ETHNOLOGY : Saul H. Riesenberg, curaLucile E. Hoyme, associate curator tor A. Joseph Andrews, exhibits specialGordon D. Gibson, associate curator ist
Eugene I. Knez, associate curator
Department of Zoology: Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., chairman
Fenner A. Chace, Jr., senior scientist ; Watson M. Perrygo, in charge of Taxidermy
MAMMALS: David H. Johnson, curator MARINE INVERTEBRATES: Donald F. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator Squires, curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate Thomas E. Bowman, associate curacurator tor Brirps: Philip 8. Humphrey, curator Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate George E. Watson, associate curator curator Richard L. Zusi, associate curator Marian H. Pettibone, associate curaREPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Doris M. tor Cochran, curator Raymond B. Manning, associate Fisues: Leonard P. Schultz, curator curator Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator David L. Pawson, associate curator Victor G. Springer, associate curator Mo.tiusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator William R. Taylor, associate curator Joseph P. FE. Morrison, associate Stanley H. Weitzman, associate curator curator Joseph Rosewater, associate curator
Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., associate curator

<<<Page: 8>>>

Department of Entomology: J. F. Gates Clarke, chairman
NEUROPTEROIDS: Oliver S. Flint, assoCOLEOPTERA: Oscar L. Cartwright, ciate curator in charge curator LEPIDOPTERA: J. KF. Gates Clarke, actPaul J. Spangler, associate curator ing curator HeEMIPTERA: Richard C. Froeschner, Donald R. Davis, associate curator associate curator in charge W. Donald Duckworth, associate MyrIAPpopA AND ARACHNIDA: Ralph EH. curator Crabill, Jr., curator
William D. Field, associate curator
Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, chairman
PHANEROGAMS: Lyman B. Smith, cuThomas R. Soderstrom, associate rator curator Velva EH. Rudd, associate curator CRYPTOGAMS: Mason H. Hale, Jr., cuJohn J. Wurdack, associate curator rator Wallace R. Ernst, associate curator Paul S. Conger, associate curator Dan H. Nicolson, associate curator Harold E. Robinson, associate cuStanwyn G. Shetler, associate curator rator PLanrt ANATOMY: William L. Stern, FerNSs: Conrad V. Morton, curator curator David B. Lellinger, associate curator Richard H. Eyde, associate curator GRASSES: Jason R. Swallen, acting curator
Department of Paleobiology: G. Arthur Cooper, chairman
INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY : Richard VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. Lewis
S. Boardman, curator Gazin, curator
Porter M. Kier, associate curator David H. Dunkle, associate curator
Richard Cifelli, associate curator Nicholas Hotton III, associate cu-
Erle G. Kauffman, associate curator rator
Martin A. Buzas, associate curator Clayton E. Ray, associate curator
Richard H. Benson, associate curaPALEOBOTANY: Francis M. Hueber, tor curator
Walter H. Adey, associate curator
Department of Mineral Sciences: George S. Switzer, chairman
MINERALOGY: George S. Switzer, actMETEORITES: Edward P. Henderson, ing curator associate curator in charge Paul E. Desautels, associate curaRoy S. Clarke, Jr., chemist tor
Oceanography Program: I. E. Wallen, Assistant Director for Oceanography
H. Adair Fehlmann, supervisory museum specialist

<<<Page: 9>>>

Museum oF History AND TECHNOLOGY
Director: Frank A. Taylor
Assistant Director: John C. Ewers
William E. Boyle, administrative officer
Virginia Beets, administrative officer
Department of Science and Technology: Robert P. Multhauf, chairman Deborah J. Mills, assistant curator
PHYSICAL ScIENCES: Walter F. Cannon, associate curator in charge; in charge of Sections of Astronomy and Physics
Uta C. Merzbach, associate curator, Sections of Mathematics and Antique Instruments
Robert P. Multhauf, curator in charge of Sections of Chemistry and Meteorology
MECHANICAL AND CIvIL ENGINEERING: Silvio A. Bedini, curator; in charge of Section of Tools
Edwin A. Battison, associate curator, Sections of Light Machinery and Horology
Robert M. Vogel, associate curator,
Sections of Heavy Machinery and Civil Hngineering ELEctTrRIicIty: Bernard S. Finn, associate curator in charge TRANSPORTATION : Howard I. Chapelle, curator; in charge of Section of Marine Transportation Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator John H. White, Jr., associate curator, Section of Land Transportation MepicaL ScreENcES: Sami K. Hamarneh, curator; in charge of Sections of Medical and Dental History and Pharmaceutical History and Health
Department of Arts and Manufactures: Philip W. Bishop, chairman
MANUFACTURES AND HEAvy INDUSTRIES: Philip W. Bishop, acting curator
Lowell L. Henkle, industrial specialist
AGRICULTURE AND FOREST PRODUCTS: Edward C. Kendall, associate curator in charge
TEXTILES: Mrs. Grace Rogers Cooper, curator
Department of Civil History:
Rita J. Adrosko, associate curator CERAMICS AND GLASS: Paul V. Gardner, curator J. Jefferson Miller II, assistant eurator GRAPHIC ARTS: Jacob Kainen, curator Fuller O. Griffith, associate curator Eugene Ostroff, associate curator, Section of Photography
Richard H. Howland, chairman
Peter C. Welsh, curator; Mrs. Doris Esch Borthwick, assistant curator ; Anne Castrodale, assistant curator
PouitIcAL History: Wilcomb BH. Washburn, curator Mrs. Margaret Brown Klapthor, associate curator Keith E. Melder, associate curator Mrs. Anne W. Murray, associate curator Herbert R. Collins, assistant curator PHILATELY AND PosTaAL HISTORY: Carl H. Scheele, associate curator in charge
CULTURAL History: C. Maleolm Watkins, curator Mrs. Cynthia Adams Hoover, associate curator John N. Pearce, associate curator Rodris C. Roth, associate curator NUMISMATICS: Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator

<<<Page: 10>>>

Department of Armed Forces History: Mendel L. Peterson, chairman
Mivirary History: Edgar M. Howell, NAVAL History: Philip K. Lundeberg, curator curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., associate Melvin H. Jackson, associate curator curator
Office of Exhibits: John E. Anglim, Chief
MusEuM oF NATURAL History LABORAMUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY tory: A. Gilbert Wright, assistant LABORATORY: Benjamin W. Lawchief less, chief
Julius Tretick, production superWilliam M. Clark, production suvisor pervisor in charge
Honorary Smithsonian Fellows, Associates, Collaborators, Custodians of Collections, and Honorary Curators
Anthropology John M. Campbell, Archeology Walter W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology C. G. Holland, Archeology William J. Tobin, Physical AnthroNeil M. Judd, Archeology pology Betty J. Meggers, Archeology Nathalie F. S. Woodbury, Archeology Frank M. Setzler, Anthropology
Zoology
Oliver L. Austin, Birds J. Percy Moore, Marine Invertebrates Willard W. Becklund, Helminthology Dioscoro S. Rabor, Birds J. Bruce Bredin, Biology Waldo L. Schmitt, Marine InverteWilliam L. Brown, Mammals brates Ailsa M. Clark, Marine Invertebrates Bejamin Schwartz, Helminthology Herbert G. Deignan, Birds Robert Traub, Mammals Herbert Friedmann, Birds Alexander Wetmore, Birds Laurence Irving, Birds Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, CopeAllen McIntosh, Mollusks pod Crustacea
Entomology Doris H. Blake Frank M. Hull Melbourne A. Carriker, Jr. William L. Jellison Carl J. Drake Carl F. W. Muesebeck K. C. Emerson Thomas E. Snyder
Botany
Chester R. Benjamin, Fungi Kittie F. Parker, Phanerogams *A ones Chase, Grasses John A. Stevenson, Fungi Emory C. Leonard, Phanerogams William N. Watkins, Woods
Floyd A. McClure, Grasses
*Deceased September 24, 1963 VII

<<<Page: 11>>>

Paleobiology
C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate PaleAxel A. Olsson, Invertebrate Paleontology ontology
J. Thomas Dutro, Invertebrate PaleWendell P. Woodring, Invertebrate ontology Paleontology
Remington Kellogg, Vertebrate Paleontology
Mineral Sciences
Gunnar Kullerud, Mineralogy Waldemar T. Schaller, Mineralogy
Science and Technology
Derek J. Price
Civil History
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Cultural Mrs. Emery May Norweb, NumisHistory matics
Elmer C. Herber, History R. Henry Norweb, Numismatics
Ivor Noél Hume, Cultural History Joan Jockwig Pearson, Cultural His-
Fred W. McKay, Numismatics tory
Armed Forces History
William Rea Furlong Byron McCandless Frederic C. Lane

<<<Page: 12>>>

Annual Report of the Director
United States National Museum

<<<Page: 13>>>



<<<Page: 14>>>

President Lyndon B. Johnson speaking at ceremonies dedicating the Museum of History and Technology.
Buildings Museum of History and Technology
On October 25, 1963, the General Services Administration advised the contractor that all remaining areas and systems of the Museum of History and Technology not previously accepted were, with certain exceptions, accepted effective August 30, 1963.
On January 22, 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson dedicated the building at ceremonies attended by Ambassadors, Ministers, Members of the Supreme Court, Members of the Senate, Members of the House of Representatives, other high ranking officials and important donors and other friends of the Smithsonian Institution.
After introductory remarks by Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the audience was addressed, in the order of events, by Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States; by Senator Clinton P. Anderson, United States Senator from New Mexico, Regent of the Smithsonian Institution and Chairman of the Joint Congressional Committee on Construction of a Building for a Museum of History

<<<Page: 15>>>

pipe age wae Tareas

<<<Page: 16>>>



<<<Page: 17>>>

= Huh mare mena ay,
Construction of new west wing of the Museum of Natural History from top of Washington Monument; Museum of History and Technology in foreground.
Views (pages 2, 4, 5) of new Museum of History and Technology: p. 2, from across Constitution Avenue; p. 4 (top), Mall, or south, front and closeup (bottom) of school-bus entrance from Smithsonian tower; p. 5, east (top) and west ends from across Constitution Avenue.

<<<Page: 18>>>

and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution; and by the President of the United States. Music was provided by the United States Marine Band, Lieutenant Colonel Albert Schoepper, Director. conducting.
After the ceremonies the guests viewed the exlibits in ten halls installed for the opening.
The building was opened to the public at 9:00 a.m., January 23, 1964.
On the first Sunday after the opening more than 57,000 persons visited the building, causing traflic jams of substantial size. By June 30, 1964, a total of 2,510,672 persons had visited the building.
The opening of the building and its initial exhibits has focused the attention of historians, museum professionals, scholars, writers and many others on the scholarly competence of the curators and upon the unportance of the Smithsonian collections in recording and interpreting history and traditions. Interviews have been taped, and the building and its exhibits have been filmed for world-wide distribution by the USIA and the Voice of America. Unprecedented requests have been received from universities for joint programs in American studies, and the history of science and technology. Architects and museum directors from all sections of the United States and the world have visited the Museum to inspect the building, to examine the programs and collections, and to obtain advice on the establishment, construction, and improvement of museums.
Museum of Natural History
The contract for construction of the west wing of the natural history building, including the last stage of renovation of the original building, was signed in August 1963 and excavation for the wing was begun in November. The foundations were laid and the superstructure erected at a rapid rate, and by the end of the fiscal year most of the granite facing was in place. Meanwhile, renovation of the original building was commenced.
Funds Allotted
From the funds appropriated by the Congress to carry on the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year 1964, the sum of $5,587,000 was obligated by the United States National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geological materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, technology, industry, graphic arts, and history. (This amount includes sums expended for the program of exhibits modernization.)

<<<Page: 19>>>

E =) ® nw = ® fe he ° Fe} < D 3 = fe ® vu = 5 h — rs ® E nw ® u 3 he he
Spangled Banne
Star
ing hangs the Foucault pendulum which demon-
of the earth to visitors on floor below (right).
Through circular open
strates rotat

<<<Page: 20>>>

Exhibits
A significant milestone in the history of the exhibits program at the Smithsonian Institution was passed when exhibition halls on the first and second floors of the Museum of History and Technology were presented to the public on January 23, 1964. Totaling more than 75,000 square feet of instructive displays, these areas include the following halls or portions thereof :
Flag Hall Light Machinery
First Ladies Tools
Everyday Life in the American Past Vehicles
American Costume Railroads
Farm Machinery Heavy Machinery (part)
Also placed on display were the Greenough statue of George Washington, flanked by eight cases of outstanding national treasures; a centrally located Foucault pendulum; and a preview of future ex-

<<<Page: 21>>>

hibits, in which are presented examples of displays to be placed in halls to be opened in the future. The halls and exhibits on view at the opening had required less than eight months to install, and the building was opened to the public in less than five months after its substantial completion by the contractor. This achievement was the result of nearly eight years of advanced planning and design of exhibition halls, followed by the production of innumerable individual displays, some of which had been temporarily exhibited in the Arts and Industries building prior to being moved to the new museum. It could not have been accomplished without the cooperation of many individuals on the curatorial staff, in the office of exhibits and the buildings management division, and in the employ of private contractors—including subject matter specialists who planned and technically supervised development of the displays; specialists in exhibits design, production, and installation; as well as model makers, plastics technicians, painters, electricians, and laborers. Among those in charge of this operation, and presently engaged in the task of installing the remaining halls of the museum are assistant director John C. Ewers, who coordinates the varied exhibits activities of this museum with the able assistance of John N. Edy in planning the physical movement of materials; Benjamin W. Lawless, who supervises the design, production, and installation of exhibits, aided by Robert Widder in design, Bela S. Bory and Wilham Clark in production, Robert Klinger in the model shop, Stanley Santoroski in supervision of installation, and Carroll Lusk as lighting specialist; George Weiner, who edits the curators’ drafts of exhibits scripts, with the assistance of Constance Minkin and Edna Wright. The timely assistance of buildings manager Andrew F. Michaels and his staff, of John E. Cudd, laison architect, and of George Watson, skilled specialist in the renovation and installation of period interiors, contributed substantially to the success of this program.
Since the opening of the new museum the installation of additional halls has progressed. The hall of historic Americans was opened to the public in June, and five other halls will be installed and opened during the four months following June 30, 1964.
John E. Anglim, exhibits chief, continued in charge of the planning and preparation of all exhibits, and, with the assistance of Gilbert Wright, directly supervised the operation of the exhibits laboratory in the Museum of Natural Mistory. Julius Tretick supervised the production and installation of exhibits in that museum. Substantial portions of the halls dealing with cultures of Asia and Africa and with comparative osteology were opened to the public in June, and progress was made on five other halls in that Museum.

<<<Page: 22>>>

EXHIBITS let
Director T. Dale Stewart continued to serve as chairman of the committee coordinating the exhibits modernization program in natural history, and assistant director Richard S. Cowan coordinated the work of curators and exhibits personnel in the development of natural history exhibits. To the advancement of this work substantial contributions were made by John H. Morrissey, project review chief, architectural branch of the Public Buildings Service, General Services Administration, and by Joseph F. Cromwell, Jr., Mrs. Gertrude Hein, and Albert Brigeda, design architects of that agency.
Anthropology
Colorful new exhibits of objects from the Near East, Japan, Korea, China, and North and West Africa were first placed on public view when the west portion of the hall of cultures of Africa and Asia was informally opened in late June. Among the exhibits interpreting the traditional cultures of the Asian peoples are a life-size group portraying an episode from a Chinese opera, with accompanying pushbutton sound recording, a display of objects illustrating the evolution of farming in Japan, and a unit on the daily and religious life in Tibet. The Republic of Korea has loaned one of its national art treasures, a cast-iron figure of Buddha from the Koryo dynasty (A.D. 935-1392), which is presented in a temple setting with a paneled screen of red silk brocade. North and West African cultures present many striking works of art from peoples whose accomplishments have had a profound influence upon modern art in Europe and America. One of the most dramatic displays is a diorama portraying the smelting of iron ore in primitive furnaces and the fashioning of iron tools by tribesmen from the Mandara Mountain region of northern Cameroon. This group was created by exhibits specialists John Weaver, Robert Caftrey, and Peter De Anna. The exhibits in this hall were planned and specified by associate curators of ethnology Gordon D. Gibson and Eugene I. Knez. The hall design was the work of exhibits designer Dorothy Guthrie and the graphic design of individual units was the work of exhibits designer Lucius Lomax.
The completely renovated life-size group portraying Indian quarrying operations and making of stone artifacts at the Piney Branch site within the present boundaries of the District of Columbia some 500 years ago was opened to the public in the hall of North American archeology, and another group illustrating Indian copper mining in present Michigan was nearing completion at year’s end. Contract construction in the new hall of Old World archeology was virtually completed at year’s end. This hall was designed by exhibits designer

<<<Page: 23>>>

Rolland O. Hower under the scientific supervision of associate curator Gus Van Beek.
The contractor’s work in the new hall of physical anthropology also was nearing completion at the end of June. About half of the exhibit units for this hall have been designed by exhibits designer Joseph Shannon, who also served as architectural designer for the hall. The contents of the exhibits have been specified by T. Dale Stewart, director of the Museum of Natural History and Lawrence Angel, curator-in-charge of the division of physical anthropology.
During the spring of 1964, Dr. Knez supervised the installation of 41 outstanding examples of Chinese, Buddhist, and Hindu stone sculpture, bronze and other items from China, India, Cambodia, and Java. Dr. Van Beek worked with the Department of State and the Snuthsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service on arrangements for loan of the Dead Sea Scrolls and associated materials from the government of Jordan. In May, during his overseas detail, he conferred with officials of the Jordanian government, the U.S. Embassy, and the Palestine Archaeological Museum, and selected specimens and photoeraphs for use in the exhibition, which is scheduled to be opened in the Museum of Natural History in March 1965. Thereafter it will cireulate for six months among other museums in the United States by the Traveling Exhibition Service.
Zoology
At the end of June the exhibits in the east half of the hall of osteology, comprising the sections on mammals and birds, were informally opened to the public. The skeletons in this exhibition range in size from one of the gray whale to those of small birds. Skeletal materials are supplemented by graphic portrayals of the appearance in the flesh of the particular examples displayed. One interesting display compares the skeleton of man with those of other primates. Another points out the bony structures, differences in which serve as the bases for scientific classification of birds. ‘The sections of this hall devoted to reptiles, amphibians, and fishes are in process of preparation and installation. Planning of the exhibits in this hall has been coordinated by curator David H. Johnson, with the cooperation of the staff members of all the vertebrate divisions of this department. Hall design was by Anthony DiStefano and Rolland O. Hower, and graphic design by exhibits designer Morris M. Pearson.
On February 19, 1964, a temporary exhibition entitled “Return to the Sea” was opened on the mezzanine of the hall of life in the sea. This display, a joint effort of the Interagency Committee on Oceanography of the Government and the Smithsonian Institution, has as

<<<Page: 24>>>

EXHIBITS ie
its theme the renewal of interest in oceanography and the marine environment. Associate curator Charles Cutress and Mr. Kjell Sandved spent approximately two months in Honolulu, Hawan, Dillon Beach, Calif., and at Friday Harbor, Wash., obtaining photographs and wellpreserved specimens of animals of which models will be made for display in additional permanent exhibits in this hall.
Preparation of models and the securing of specimens for the hall of cold-blooded vertebrates (fishes, amphibians, and reptiles) was continued during the year, and the installation of groups in this hall was begun. Curator Leonard P. Schultz who is coordinating the planning of exhibits for this hall, and Alfred Strohlein spent several days in the vicinity of Seattle, Wash., during October collecting red salmon and background materials for the group on salmon spawning. Exhibits designer Barbara Craig prepared the architectural layout for this hall, and graphic design is by Joseph Shannon.
Staff members of the department cooperated with the department of paleobiology, the Oceanographic Sorting Center, the National Zoologieal Park, and the Canal Zone Biological Area in preparing a special exhibition for presentation in the foyer of the Natural History Museum at the time of the 16th International Congress of Zoology, held in Washington, August 20-27, 1963. These displays illustrated facets of the history of zoological research at the Smithsonian Institution, the research programs currently in progress, and international cooperation in the study of animal life.
Botany
Planning for the hall of plant life has continued at an accelerated rate since January 1964, at which time was established a planning committee consisting of Assistant Director Richard S. Cowan, chairman, and curators M. E. Hale, Jr., David Lellinger, T. R. Soderstrom, Stanwyn G. Shetler, Dan Nicolson, and Richard H. Eyde. This group met regularly with exhibits designer Rolland O. Hower to develop specific plans for the exhibits. Study sites from which to obtain data for construction of some of the habitat groups were selected in the eastern United States, and preparation of botanical models for use in the exhibits in this hall is in progress.
Paleobiology
The fourth and last of the remarkable series of mural paintings in the hall of the age of mammals in North America, representing land life during epochs of Tertiary time, was completed by artist Jay H. Matternes. This mural depicts a Phocene mammalian assemblage.

<<<Page: 25>>>

Associate curator Clayton EK. Ray initiated preliminary planning of displays in the hall to be devoted to life of the Pleistocene, the geologic epoch immediately preceding the present, in consultations with members of the exihibit staff. Much of the time of the laboratory staff has been devoted to repairing and remounting skeletons of the various larger Pleistocene mammals that were previously exhibited, and in restoring new skeletal remains for presentation in this hall.
Temporary exhibits, dealing with current research programs of staff members, were prepared by the invertebrate paleontology staff and U.S. Geological Survey paleontologists for the Intenational Zoological Congress in the summer of 1963, and were sent to New York City for display at the national meetings of the Geological Society of America and he Paleontological Society in November.
Mineral Sciences
Planning and design of the new physical geology and meteorite exhibits was completed in preparation for the start of construction, which is to provide additional space for the gem exhibits. The physical geology exhibit will interpret the nature and properties of materials composing the earth; the distribution of these materials throughout the globe; the processes by which they are formed, altered, transported, and distorted; and the nature and development of the landscape. The new hall has been planned by curator George S. Switzer and associate curators Paul E. Desautels and Edward P. Henderson. The hall layout has been prepared by exhibits designer Dorothy Guthrie.
Science and Technology
Four halls of the Department of Science and Technology in the east portion of the first floor were open when the interior of the Museum of History and Technology first was revealed to the public.
By means of a few choice full-scale vehicles and an extended series of accurately and precisely executed scale models the railroad hall interprets the history of street railways as well as railroads. The giant 280-ton Pacific-type steam locomotive No. 1401, largest and one of the most impressive three-dimensional specimens in the museum, stands near the row of east windows through which it may be viewed from outside the building at night as well as by daylight. It contrasts sharply with the boiler from the little “Stourbridge Lion” brought from England in 1829 to become the first steam locomotive to run on an American railroad built for commercial use, and with the bonnetstacked, wood-burning locomotive “Pioneer” built in 1851 by Seth

<<<Page: 26>>>

Wilmarth for the Cumberland Valley Railroad in Pennsylvania. A cut-away scale model of a diesel-electric locomotive shows a type that has supplanted the steam locomotive on American railroads in recent years. A full-scale cable car used in Seattle, Wash., in the late 19th century stands on a section of narrow-gauge track in an elevated position so visitors can see the underground construction required for its operation. Basic developments in street cars, locomotives, and railroad cars are illustrated by nearly 80 models, most of them built to the
Brick-paved railroad hall has picture window (right) facing 12th Street.
same scale, which faithfuliy portray notable mechanical advances and the contributions of famous designers. Also displayed are an outstanding collection of rail samples, and examples of railway safety devices. The hall was planned by associate curator John H, White, Jr., in collaboration with exhibits designers James Mahoney, Virginia Mahoney, and Deborah Bretzfelder.
The adjacent vehicle hall traces the development of various types of road vehicles in the United States from the 18th century to the present day. Among the outstanding horse-drawn vehicles on display are two variations of the famous stage coach built by the Abbot, Downing Company of Concord, N.H., and widely used in the East and

<<<Page: 27>>>

West beyond the lines of the early railroads; the finely constructed Lawrence family coach built by Thomas Goddard of Boston in 1851; and a city omnibus built by E. M. Miller of Quincy, Ill. The automobiles illustrate the rapid evolution of automobile design and manufacture from the 1890’s. Along with the pioneer Balzer and Haynes motor wagons, appear the famous Winton mile-a-minute racer of 1902, the Winton in which Dr. H. Nelson Jackson drove the first transcontinental motor trip m 1903, and a sturdy Mack Bulldog truck. Museum specialist Donald Berkebile planned the exhibits in this hall with assistance in layout from exhibits designer Riddick Vann.
The hall of tools illustrates the history and development of machine tools. Introductory exhibits display hand tools with which men performed laboriously tasks later accomphshed with much greater speed and precision by machine. A short sound film in color describes the five basic machining operations—planing, milling, drilling and boring, turning, and grinding. A full-scale reproduction of Thomas Blanchard’s gunstock lathe of 1822 introduces a series of historic specialpurpose machines which, in their capacity for producing large numbers of interchangeable parts, played important roles in contributing to increased American productivity and to a higher standard of living. The attainment of greater precision in measurement, important to the development of machine tools, is brought out in a series of exhibits tracing the history of measurement from the Roman cubit to modern times. An outstanding feature of this hall is a reconstructed fullsize machine shop of about 1855 equipped with some of the oldest machine tools in the collection. Six machines, restored to operating condition, are placed in the surroundings in which they would have been used. They are operated by a docent at designated times to demonstrate their functions to museum visitors. Silvio A. Bedini, curator of civil engineering, and his predecessor, Eugene S. Ferguson, selected the machines and planned the case exhibits in this hall with the cooperation of exhibits designers Bright Springman, Harry Hart, and John Clendening. William Henson installed the machines and placed them in operating condition.
A major portion of the hall of light machinery illustrates the evolution of timekeeping. The introductory exhibit, through a revolving globe bearing small sundials on its surface, demonstrates the basic importance of the daily cycle of the earth’s rotation as the foundation of man’s timekeeping systems. The exhibits illustrate the gradual development of timekeeping from early sundials, sandglasses, and waterclocks to the most precise modern electronic clocks. Historic examples of European and American-made clocks and watches and a number of enlarged escapement models are included. In the

<<<Page: 28>>>

Demonstrations are conducted in pre-1855 machine shop in hall of tools.

<<<Page: 29>>>

center of the hall is a reconstruction of a Renaissance clock tower, the four sides of which will display a sun dial, and civil, astronomical, and automaton dials actuated by an American tower clock of 1786. Both the sun dial and civil-time dials have been installed, the former by museum specialist Dorothy Briggs and the latter by its maker, Thwaites and Reed of London, England. Nearby is a reconstructed chronometer-maker’s shop of 1830, complete with the tools used by its proprietor in manufacturing these precise instruments. The exhibits in other sections of this hall show machines derived from the skills developed by clock and instrument makers. One series traces
Reconstruction of Renaissance clock tower in hall of light machinery.
the development of the phonograph from Thomas Edison’s original invention and the work of Alexander Graham Bell’s Volta Laboratory through the more recent talking machines. Exhibits on the evolution of the typewriter include early original machines and patent models. Still other displays interpret the history of locks from early times to the present, showing how new materials and more subtle engineering concepts led to the perfection of more secure locking devices. Exhibits in this hall were planned by associate curator Edwin A. Battison in cooperation with hall designer Bright Springman and exhibits designer Barbara Bowes.

<<<Page: 30>>>

At the close of the year installation of exhibits in the hall of civil engineering, adjoining the railroad hall, were nearing completion and plans were made for an early July opening. An interpretation of the story of bridge and tunnel building through the ages shows how the use of new materials enabled bridge builders to construct longer spans and illustrates through scale models many of the classic bridges of history. The tunnels section features a series of cutaway scale models that illustrates the development of methods in both softground and hard-rock tunneling and depicts men constructing some of the major tunnels in which new drilling methods and mechanisms were employed. Associate curator Robert M. Vogel prepared the technical specifications for this hall and the exhibits layout and design are the work of exhibits designers John Brown and Harry Hart.
Considerable progress also was made in the installation of exhibits in the hall of heavy machinery. ‘Those at the west end of this hall, opened to the public in January, interpret the early development of the steam engine, and include a reconstruction of an early Watt rotative engine. The series on refrigeration and the diesel engine are to be opened in conjunction with the adjoining civil engineering hall in July 1964.
All free-standing exhibition cases have been installed in the American merchant marine hall, and a considerable number of the scale models of historic types of vessels from the museum’s outstanding watercraft collection have been placed in them by exhibits specialist James A. Knowles, Jr., under the supervision of curator of transportation Howard I. Chapelle.
A temporary exhibition of communications satellites, being installed in the northeast portion of the hall of electricity, will be available to the public in July. An item in this exhibit is the back-up satellite for Telstar I—presented to the museum on July 10, 1963, the first anniversary of its launching. Contract installation of cases for permanent exhibits in the southwest portion of this hall, which will interpret current electricity, neared completion at year’s end. These exhibits have been planned by associate curator of electricity Bernard S. Finn. Exhibits designer Nadya Kayaloff has nearly completed the display designs.
In the halls of pharmacy, medicine, and dentistry at the extreme west end of the first floor, installation of an 1890 period drugstore, of period interiors depicting a portion of a room in the Massachusetts General Hospital, and a midwestern dentist’s office are nearing completion. The Old World apothecary shop formerly on view in the Arts and Industries building is to be installed in the new hall of pharmacy. Two new exhibits destined for exhibition in the new museum were placed on temporary display in the Arts and Industries

<<<Page: 31>>>

building: A diorama depicting Dr. Philip S. Physick excising a large paratoid gland tumor in the circular room of the Pennsylvania Hospital in 1805, long before the discovery of anesthesia; and an enlarged model of the human ear, donated by the Lambert Institute of Otology of New York City. Curator of medical sciences Sami K. Hamarneh, assisted by Dr. Alfred R. Henderson, consultant, are completing exhibit plans for the medical science exhibits in cooperation with exhibits designer, John Clendening.
The Foucault pendulum, prepared by the California Institute of Technology and exhibited in the central rotunda of the new museum, has fascinated visitors since the opening of the building. The division of physical sciences, which is in charge of this exhibit, has been making careful studies of its operation and of the problem of interpreting it to the public. A large graphic explanation planned by curator Walter F. Cannon, is being produced by the exhibits laboratory. Development of exhibits for the hall of physical sciences progressed with the completion of a layout plan for the mathematics section and the production of all but two units in the section of astronomy.
Arts and Manufactures
The farm machinery hall, on view when the new building opened in January, shows through displays of original objects and accurate scale models how the invention and use of labor-saving machines played a major role in the rapid expansion of American agriculture since the early 19th century. The earlier hand-wielded and horse-drawn implements are contrasted with later self-propelled machines which performed the same basic tasks of plowing, planting, cultivating, and harvesting food crops. The horse-drawn combine in the center of this hall represents an early peak in mechanization. This machine, the first built by Benjamin Holt at Stockton, Calif., in 1886, performed all the harvesting and threshing tasks while moving through the wheat fields of a western bonanza farm. <A feature display in the series on the development of the plow is Thomas Jefferson’s plan for a more efficient moldboard which any farmer of his time could make with his own tools and fit to his plow. John Deere’s “steel” plow is shown, as are scale models of the McCormick and Hussey reapers of the 1830's.
On view in another section of the hall is the first portable steam engine made by J. I. Case, which produced about 8 horsepower for driving threshers and sawmills by belt. The exhibits in this hall were planned by associate curator Edward C. Kendall in cooperation with exhibits designer Riddick Vann. The human figures which help to establish scale and add interest to the miniature models of reapers were
executed by exhibits technician Susan Wallace.

<<<Page: 32>>>

Installation of exhibits in the new hall of graphic arts was begun in spring of 1964 in anticipation of a fall opening of this hall, which will explain the processes and present outstanding examples of works created and produced by hand and by photomechanical processes. These exhibits have been planned by curator Jacob Kainen and associate curator Fuller O. Griffith in cooperation with exhibits designer Nadya Kayaloff. Temporary exhibits of prints and photographs will continue to be displayed in the Arts and Industries and the Smithsonian buildings until completion of the graphic arts salon in the new museum. Nine special exhibits in graphic arts and seven featuring the work of outstanding contemporary photographers were shown during the year:
Recent accessions June 3—June 30, 1963 Monotype prints from the collection July 1-August 4, 19638
Prints by Conrad Ross, Art Department, Auburn August 5—September 15, 1963 sity of Maryland
Intaglio prints by Mario Micossi September 16—November 3, 1963
Intaglio prints by Jan Gelb November 4—December 8, 1963
Woodcuts by Hans Jelinek December 9, 1963—January 6, 1964
Etchings by Ruel P. Tolman from the collection January 7—February 3, 1964
Selected examples of nature printing February 4May 3, 1964
Prints by Conrad Ross, Art Department, Auburn May 4-June 30, 1964 University, Auburn, Ala.
PHOTOGRAPHY Irving Penn June 14-July 28, 1963 Arthur Rothstein August 3-September 29, 1963 Andreas Feininger October 9—December 8, 1963 Elliott Erwitt December 10, 1963—February 4, 1964 Kosti Ruohomaa February 6—March 30, 1964 Robert Capa April 1—June 15, 1964 Sam Falk June 17—-August 30, 1964
Installation of exhibits in the hall of glass was begun in spring of 1964 in preparation for opening the hall the following fall. Development of this hall is under the technical direction of curator Paul VY. Gardner and assistant curator J. Jefferson Miller II of the division of ceramics and glass. ‘The hall was designed by Dorothy Guthrie, and the graphics design is being completed by exhibits designer Barbara Bowes.
The Ninth International Exhibition of Ceramic Art, sponsored by the Kiln Club of Washington, was held in the Natural History Museum September 8 through October 11,1963. On view were 550 pieces of pottery, the work of ceramic artists from 39 foreign countries and the United States. Five pieces, including two award winners from the exhibition, were given to the division of ceramics and glass.

<<<Page: 33>>>

Among the displays in the preview of future exhibits in the temporary exhibits gallery on the first floor of the new museum is an early American handloom, built by a pioneer settler of western Pennsylvania about 1800, which is used for weekly demonstrations of weaving by associate curator of textiles Rita Adrosko.
A reproduction of the figure-8 stellerator developed by Dr. Lyman Spitzer of Princeton University was placed on exhibition in the Constitution Avenue window area on the first floor of the new museum. Symbolic of the research involving the generation of temperatures in excess of 100 million degrees centigrade, the stellerator provides an interesting contrast with the 19th-century farm machines which may be seen through the display window in the adjoining hall of farm machinery.
Reproduction of a figure-8 stellerator in the nuclear energy exhibit.

<<<Page: 34>>>

EXHIBITS 23 Civil History
Three halls dealing with civil history were on public view when the new museum opened in January, and a fourth was formally opened to the public in June.
The hall of everyday life in the American past, comprising the largest exhibition gallery in the museum, displays the material evidences of domestic life in America before 1900. The furnishings, utensils, decorative arts and other objects illustrating aspects of the cultural life of the country are presented in a series of cases, period rooms, and platform groupings progressing chronologically from an initial series of displays devoted to the European backgrounds of early settlement groups to the interior of a confectioner’s shop in Georgetown, D.C., at the turn of the 20th century. Among the outstanding exhibits in the first series are a reproduction of a room from an 18thcentury Spanish New Mexican adobe home and objects of religious art from the Franciscan missions of the Southwest. The English colonies of the eastern seaboard are represented by displays ranging from artifacts obtained archeologically to fine furniture, pewter, and silver. Period rooms in this portion of the hall include a chamber from a 17th-century Massachusetts house and mid-18th-century parlors from Virginia and Massachusetts. An entire log house from Mill Creek Hundred, Del., dating from about 1740, shows both the exterior and interior construction and the furnishings of this house. Exhibits in the 19th-century section of this hall portray the contrasts and transitions from a handicraft to an industrial society through such objects as Federal-period silver and furniture, rural pottery, foll arts, and industrially-made decorations. Exhibits of children’s games and toys are especially appealing to visitors of all ages. The starkly simple furnishings of the Shaker sect appear in a display of furniture from the collection of Dr. J. J. G. McCue. This hall was planned and installed under the direction of curator C. Malcolm Watkins, assisted by associate curators Rodris Roth and John N. Pearce. It was designed by exhibits chief John E. Anglim, with the assistance of exhibits designer Deborah Bretzfelder. Period rooms and the log house were executed by George H. Watson and his staff of restoration specialists with the professional assistance of Mrs. KE. Boyd, curator of Spanish colonial art, Museum of New Mexico, and architects Robert L. Raley of Newark, Del., and Robert E. Plettenberg of Santa Fe, N. Mex.
The new First Ladies hall provides a more appealing medium for continuing the tradition of exhibiting the dresses worn by the wife or official hostess of each president of the United States. These dresses show the changes in American costume from the 18th-century style

<<<Page: 35>>>

srsncattitatrrane estee ae
Hall of American costume contains examples of four centuries of dress, with particular emphasis on styles of the 18th and 19th centuries.
worn by Martha Washington to the simple lines and elegant fabrics of more recent First Ladies. Three dresses were presented to the public for the first time: the handsome Empire gown worn by Mrs. James Madison, on loan from the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery in Kansas City, Mo.; the garnet velvet gown worn by Rose Cleveland, sister of President Cleveland and hostess for the first two years of his first administration; and a black silk dress of Mrs. Grover Cleveland. The dresses are displayed upon mannequins in a series of eight room settings, each appropriately finished and furnished to indicate the periods and environments in which the dresses were worn. ‘Two rooms reproduce those in the house at 190 High Street in Philadelphia, where President and Mrs. Washington lived before the White House was built, and display furniture and fixtures owned and used by them. The other room settings combine architectural details from the White House, including four original White House mantels and the 1902 paneling from the East Room, with furniture and accessories used both in the White House and in Presidential family homes. Especially interesting are the set of gold furniture purchased for use in the Blue Room of the White House in 1859 and used until the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the elaborate gold piano used in the Kast Room from Theodore Roosevelt’s administration to that of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Small cases in this hall contain personal be

<<<Page: 36>>>

longings of the First Ladies and colorful Presidential china. A diorama portrays the Oval Drawing Room in the White House as it looked in 1814 after it was redecorated by Dolley Madison and Benjamin Latrobe. This hall was developed by associate curator Margaret Brown Klapthor in cooperation with exhibits chief Benjamin W. Lawless.
The new hall of American costume adequately presents for the first time the museum’s rich and extensive collection of men’s, women’s and children’s clothing of the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries. It includes accessories of dress such as shoes, hats, handkerchiefs, parasols, and gloves and such decorative accessories as fans, embroidered and beaded purses, and many fine examples of period jewelry. Many of the clothing items are exhibited on mannequins which portray the hair
Empire style of dress, 1800-1830, displayed in hall of American cos-
tume. 744-993—64

<<<Page: 37>>>

dress appropriate to the costumes, and some are shown in groupings in partial room settings. Rare articles of everyday wear and early underclothing are included. Among the outstanding materials presented in this graphic review of four centuries of American dress are 18th-century wraps, a freedom suit given to a young man who had completed his apprenticeship to a cabinetmaker, an 18th-century wedding gown of blue silk, children’s clothing of the period 1800 to 1830, a woman’s exercise suit of the mid-19th century illustrating dress reform of the period, a dressmaker’s salon of the 1880's, and several knee-length “flapper” dresses of the decade of the 1920’s. Illustrations of various types of clothing selected from paintings and engravings dealing with the history of costume supplement the original specimens on display. The entire hall has been one of great interest for historians, artists, and students of American style and taste. The exhibits were planned and installed under the direction of associate curator Anne W. Murray. Hall design was by exhibits designer Robert M. Widder; graphics design by exhibits designers Judith Borgogni, Virginia Mahoney, and Deborah Bretzfelder.
The hall of historic Americans, opened to the public on June 30, is unlike other museum presentations in the United States. A portion of the hall is devoted to a capsule history of American political campaign techniques, tracing their development from the era of genteel “parlor politics” to the modern political use of the mass media of communications. A dramatic political parade illustrates the development of Presidential campaigning between 1840 and 1930. Papier-maché marchers carry authentic political banners, pennants, and torchlights, and wear campaign clothing and badges. In association with the parade are exhibited a log cabin such as might have been erected as a Whig party headquarters during the “Log Cabin and Hard Cider” campaign of 1840, a front porch similar to those used by candidates during the McKinley and Hardink ears, and a rear platform of a railroad observation car representing the “‘whistle stop” period of campaigning. An adjoming area, illustrating the important relationship between politics and the press, radio, and television, includes microphones used by Franklin D. Roosevelt in delivering his historic radio fireside chats and by Dwight D. Eisenhower during the 1952 campaign. Other exhibitions in this hall interpret the contributions to American history of certain major institutions and groups of people. Personal memorabilia suggest the roles of Congress and the Supreme Court, scholars, and “men of enterprise.” A former United States Senate subway car is exhibited, while one of Robert C. Goddard’s early experimental rockets indicates the impact of scientific scholarship upon American lfe. The influence of “Americans abroad” is suggested by an exhibition of gifts received by eminent

<<<Page: 38>>>

n_seuagionciuemecetnon a aniniiee eae aetreatet ee eee
the hall of American costume.
ited
1 exhib
1920-—
sea Os
quien!
erative atte rhe pet
in rhvere was probably the dreamer te
—— Flapper styles,

<<<Page: 39>>>

Americans from foreign leaders, including a Sicilian cart given to General George C. Marshall in gratitude for American aid to Italy during the years after World War Il. Several exhibits display memorabilia of distinguished families and individuals—the Washington and Adams families, Ulysses S. Grant, and Abraham Lincoln. In one of these a newly sculptured figure of Abraham Lincoln, bearing the business suit which he wore on the day of his assassination, stands in a setting which closely resembles that shown in several Mathew Brady photographs of the President. Planning and installation of the exhibits in this hall were under the direction of curator Wilcomb 8. Washburn, assisted by associate curator Keith E. Melder and assistant curator Herbert R. Collins in association with exhibits designer Robert Widder.
At the west end of the west corridor on the second floor of the new museum the heroic statue of George Washington by Horatio Greenough was in place on opening day, flanked by eight cases containing some of the great national treasures in the museum’s collections, to be displayed later in the series of halls interpreting the growth of the United States in the area adjoming the statue. These historic objects include George Washington’s uniform, the portable writing desk of Thomas Jefferson, Joseph Henry’s electromagnet, the model of the cotton gin built by Eli Whitney, Isaac Singer’s first patent model of the vertical-needle sewing machine, the field compass used by William Clark, Lewis Evans’ General Map of the Middle British Colonies in America, and George Catlin’s brushes and palette, and his oil painting of his Indian hero, Four Bears, second chief of the Mandans.
Marked progress was made in the preparation of the hall of philately and postal history, scheduled for opening in September 1964. During March a Stickney rotary printing press of 1914, a Stickney coiling machine of 1920, and related stamp production equipment were transported to the museum and moved into position in the stamp production alcove of this hall by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. Frames and panels illustrating the postal history of the District of Columbia anda special exhibition of the Emma Batchelor airmail collection were installed. The series of exhibits on the history of the world’s posts were produced, cases for models of vehicles used to transport the mails and for postage meter and canceling machines were delivered to the hall, and the refinishing of the pull-out frames which will exhibit by country the systematic national postage stamp collection was completed. This hall has been planned by curator Carl H. Scheele with the assistance of museum technician Francis E. Welch in collaboration with exhibits designer John Clendening.
From June 5 through July 5, 1963, an exhibition of stamps of the world, issued in support of the Freedom from Hunger Campaign, was

<<<Page: 40>>>

displayed in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries building with the cooperation of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the Crown Agents. Postmaster General J. Edward Day addressed the visitors who attended the opening of this exhibition. A comprehensive exhibition of the postage stamps of Israel was held during November and December 1963.
Associate curator of numismatics Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, as a permanent delegate of the United States to the International Federation of Medal Editors, prepared a special display of contemporary medals produced in the United States during the past five years for the international medal exhibit arranged by that federation in The Hague, Netherlands. With the assistance of the Medallic Art Company and the United States Mint she also prepared a display of contemporary United States medals for the hall of monetary history and medallic art. A temporary display illustrating the history of the traveler’s check, including James C. Fargo’s announcement of 1891 initiating the issuance of traveler’s checks by the American Express Company, was installed in February. On March 27 a special exhibition of original mint models and designs for the John F. Kennedy half dollar was placed on display through the good offices of the Director of the Mint, Miss Eva Adams, and the Superintendent of the Philadelphia Mint, Mr. Michael H. Sura. In April a large display of the currencies of the Austrian Empire was installed, employing material recently received from the Mortimer and Anna Neinken collection.
Associate curator of musical instruments Cynthia Adams Hoover organized a recital in July 1963, given by Mr. and Mrs. Efrim Fruchtman of the University of Arizona, who played music for viola da gamba and harpsichord, using the museum’s restored harpsichord made in 1745 by Johannes Daniel Dulcken of Antwerp. In May 1964, Miss Sylvia Kenney, associate professor of music at Bryn Mawr College, presented a lecture-recital, “Paintings, Chronicles, and Stylistic Criteria as Guides to the Performance of 15th Century Music.”
Armed Forces History
The Star-Spangled Banner, the original flag which, during the attack of the British fleet on September 13-14, 1814, flew over Fort McHenry at Baltimore, Md. and inspired Francis Scott Key to write the words of our National Anthem, was installed in the Museum of History and Technology when the new building was opened to the public in January. Although this most important museum object relating to the history of the United States had been exhibited in the Arts and Industries building ever since it was presented to the Smithsonian Institution in 1912, it is now for the first time displayed at full

<<<Page: 41>>>

length, undraped, and in a place of honor befitting its importance as a national symbol.
The visitor entering the museum from the mall gains an inspiring view of the Star-Spangled Banner hanging on the north wall of the 3-story central rotunda in an alcove specially lighted to present the flag most effectively. The flag is displayed over a supporting fabric that is large enough to indicate its original dimensions of 30 by 42 feet and that completely covers the specially designed metal grid which holds the flag and its supporting fabric in a vertical position. The flag hangs in an atmosphere of filtered air carefully controlled for the proper temperature and humidity. The only other exhibit in the spacious hall is a small case, to the right of the flag containing a lithograph of the bombardment of Fort McHenry, a British 13-inch bomb of the type fired at that time, and a rare early edition of “The StarSpangled Banner.” The flag was prepared for exhibition and installed under the direction of Edgar M. Howell, curator of military history, with the assistance of Grace Rogers Cooper, curator of textiles. Miss Doris Bowman, Mrs. Lois Vann, and Miss Maurine Collins of the division of textiles assisted in preparing the backing for the flag prior to its installation. The setting for the flag was designed by Walker Cain of the firm of Steinmann, Cain and White, architects for the new musuem. The cased exhibit was designed by Robert Widder.
Development of exhibits for the armed forces history halls has occupied the entire professional staff of the department. Installation of free-standing cases and other elements in the halls devoted to chronological history of the armed forces, to firearms and ordnance, and to the display of the Revolutionary War gondola Philadelphia was inaugurated in the spring of 1964 preparatory to the opening of the major portion of this extensive series of exhibits next spring. ‘The displays for the chronological series have been designed by exhibits designers Fred C. Craig and John W. Brown.
During the year rigged models of the Union gunboat Carondelet, the Confederate ironclads Virginia and Albemarle, as well as half models of the Kearsarge, Brooklyn, San Jacinto, and Housatonic were lent to the Department of the Navy for Civil War exhibits at the TruxtunDecatur Museum and the Naval Exhibit Center. German and Japanese naval uniforms and side arms of World War II were lent for an exhibition on the Normandy and Okinawa landings, held at the Truxtun-Decatur Museum. A model of Robert Fulton’s Steam Battery (1814) was lent to the Peabody Institute of Baltimore for its exhibit on Baltimore during the War of 1812, held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Company of Military Collectors and Historians,

<<<Page: 42>>>

Accessions
During the Fiscal Year 1964
The national collections were increased during the past year by 1,234,752 specimens. These materials were distributed among the ten departments as follows: anthropology, 38,484; zoology, 196,427; botany, 30,427; entomology, 241,947; mineral sciences, 9,186; paleobiology, 376,007; science and technology, 1,361; arts and manufactures, 2,697; civil history, 336,393; and Armed Forces history, 1,823. This year’s accessions were acquired as gifts from individuals, by staff collecting in the field, or as transfers from Government departments and agencies. A full list of donors will be found on page 130.
DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY . Invertebrate Paleontology
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY Bee 980, 995 Archeology 755, 923 Ethnology . 187, 296 Physical Anthr aaalleasy 37, 776
DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY ... .. 14, 654, 250 Mammals . 317, 518 Birds . 508, 016 Reptiles and henroinians! 157, 977 Fishes . bane 1, 763, 577 Marine Inv esnietorenes ‘ 2, 020, 489 Mollusks 9, 834, 997 Helminths . 51, 676
DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY j 16, 220, 460 Coleoptera . 49, 528 Hemiptera . 81, 757 Lepidoptera : 72, 324 Myriapoda and Ar ac nmedle F 4, 369 Neuropteroids 30, 969
’ DEPARTMENT OF Borany . hoes) a 0: O8S4,624 Phanerogams . 1, 944, 572 Ferns . 235, 427 Grasses 385, 721 Cryptogams 476, 280 Plant Anatomy . 42, 624
. 13, 080, 604
Vertebrate Paleontology .
Paleobotany . 2, 070 DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL SCIENCES . t Pra 414, 481
Mineralogy 85, 000
Meteorites . 5, 000
Petrology 324, 481

<<<Page: 43>>>

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ........... 74, 833 Physical Sciences. . . . SSP eee tnane 4, 035 Mechanical and Civil nein conte NAR ees male eave be 1 10, 700 Electricity. SP SEF tak eee Ase Nee, MeN Ree Sh Awe a ee 5, 926 ELans POrvatiOn wasn Caer Ord peer ieee nee ee 25,320 MicdicaliSciemcesy Pare ek Peasant toaebe oe bo) teieaaree 28, 845 DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES. ..........-. 148, 270 Mextilesie seen: A ene eater ctr ees Pace a 34, 935 Carsmmesvmacl GIES 4, 2 6 Sk 6b 6 eb 6 ee 16, 720 Graphic Arts . Sn eae eanc’ Ward ONS in sas 51, 394 Manufactures and Heavy Industries ...... 34, 841 Agriculture and Forest Products ........ 10, 380 DEPARTMENT OF Civin HISTORY. | 95) 5 5. 2 4 5 4 5 4 25) e 2 LONO4 S095 Politicalsklistomyaice tasers atone ete el eae 47, 436 Cultural History . . ah de Rede torte 21, 938 Philately and Postal ietistosy 6 ay el eae ee, ee SOE SIMO 3rd INI SHA ICSR Ow | aces er ee on SE 165, 384 DEPARTMENT OF ARMED FORCES HistoRY . 4 5. . 5 9 4 . 2. 51, 487 Mnlitasyahistoryarer sacks At eye ee 40, 395 IND ga LISI (orca Tae An tee oe bauee Dia) enter ie bay eae ob 11, 092 ALO IMafsroone Crornmmincmmmoiss 5 95 596 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 6 0 o Oey Joe, OMY) Anthropology
Two large and important North American collections were accessioned in the division of archeology. One, received by transfer from the River Basin Surveys, Bureau of American Ethnology, included 18,603 specimens from the Medicine Creek Reservoir, Nebr., and comprises one of the largest and most complete collections extant on the prehistoric agricultural peoples of the Central Plains in the 9th to 14th centuries. The second lot is from the 1931-82 investigations of the Bureau of American Ethnology at Signal Butte, a key stratified site in western Nebraska with a series of occupational levels spanning the period from 2600 B.C. to about A.D. 1700. Other noteworthy accessions include 1,157 pieces collected by the Bureau of American Kthnology from the Parita and Santa Maria areas in Panama; a group of handaxes from the Fezan and microlithic blades from Tripolitania, Libya, presented by James R. Jones of the U.S. ATD mission to Libya; and an exceptionally well-preserved Egyptian cat mummy donated by Edith Goldsmith of Methuen, Mass.
In the division of ethnology, a large portion of the year’s acquisitions were obtained for use in the new hall of cultures of Africa and Asia. Noteworthy Asian accessions included : 79 specimens representing Chinese opera, obtained through the aid of the Chinese Nationalist Government; 116 items relating to agriculture and daily life in Japan, obtained from the Japanese Association of Museums; a Hindu village altar assemblage of 40 specimens, obtained with as

<<<Page: 44>>>

sistance of the government of Orissa, Bhubanaswar, and the Crafts Museum, New Delhi; 255 Burmese items obtained from the collector, Brian Peacock, University of Rangoon; 226 specimens mostly from Isfahan and dealing with Iran textile printing, collected and donated by Mrs. Ethel J. W. Bunting; 76 items of Korean furniture, architectural pieces, and objects of everyday use, presented by the Korean Ministry of Public Information; 5 traditional Japanese swords, with scabbards and a leather sword case, presented by Admiral William M. Fechteler; a ceremonial bone apron from Tibet, by exchange from Simon Kriger, Washington, D.C.; and 3 large rubbings of stone relief from the Bayon at Angkor, donated by the Kingdom of Cambodia. To the African collections were added 60 items from the Endo-Marakwet of Kenya, donated by Dr. Deric O’Bryan; and fullscale copies of 6 rock paintings from the Tassili Mountains of Algeria, made at the Musée de l’Homme, Paris, under the direction of M. Henri Lhote.
Among the accessions in the divisions of physical anthropology are two casts of trephined skulls from Peru, one with five and the other with seven openings, which will be used for exhibit purposes as examples of the number of trephine openings which have been made in an individual’s skull during his lifetime. One of two Kraho Indian face masks from central Brazil is to be incorporated in the map of peoples of the world in the hall of physical anthropology. Other accessions include skeletal materials from Virginia, Maryland, Latin America, and Alaska.
Zoology
The total of 14,869 mammals accessioned is well in excess of the number for any recent year and reflects a currently accelerated proeram of field activity. More than 5,000 specimens came from Africa and southwestern Asia, collected by field parties working under the cirection of Dr. Henry W. Setzer. Tropical American areas continued to produce large numbers of specimens. Dr. Charles O. Handley’s general collections from Panama and Arthur M. Greenhall’s large collection of bats from Trinidad are especially noteworthy. Important accessions also came from Mexico, Nicaragua, British Guiana, and Brazil. Of unusual interest and scientific value are a rare marbled cat from Sumatra presented by Kent Crane, a series of baboons obtained by Clifford E. Sanders in Northern Rhodesia, South American marmosets received from the National Institutes of Health Primate Colony at the San Diego Zoo through Robert W. Cooper, and a good series of canids allied to red wolves from the south-central part of the United States received through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

<<<Page: 45>>>

To the collection in the division of birds were added 45 accessions including 2,690 bird skins and 332 anatomical specimens. Accessions worthy of special note include 547 bird skins, 26 skeletons, 1 egg and 1 nest from Panama, received through Dr. Alexander Wetmore; 791 bird skins, 85 skeletons, and 1 nest from North America, by transfer from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 301 bird skins from Formosa, by transfer from the Department of Defense, Department of the Navy, U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2, through Dr. R. E. Kuntz; 190 bird skins from North Borneo, gift of the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, through Dr. J. L. Gressitt; 175 bird skins from West Pakistan, gift from Bucknell University, through Dr. Roy C. Tasker; 156 alcoholic specimens of birds from Prof. D. S. Rabor, Silliman University, Dumaguete City, Negros Oriental, Philippines; and 52 original watercolor paintings executed as illustrations for F. Salomonson’s “The Birds of Greenland,” by deposit from the artist, Mr. Aage GitzJohansen, Trorod, Denmark, through Dr. Carl Christensen, Cultural Counselor, Danish Embassy.
Outstanding among the 2,639 specimens accessioned in the division of reptiles and amphibians are 58 West Indian lizards and frogs, including paratypes of 13 new species and subspecies from Dr. Albert Schwartz of Miami, Fla.; 213 reptiles and amphibians from Madagascar collected by field parties under the direction of Dr. H. W. Setzer of the division of mammals; and 219 reptiles and amphibians from Darién, Panama, collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., also of the division of mammals.
Among the largest accessions in the division of fishes during the year were 5,777 specimens received by transfer from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, mostly through the efforts of Dr. Daniel Cohen, Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., Willis King, J. H. Finucane, and P. J. Struhsaker; a gift of 3,000 specimens of Panamanian fishes from Mr. Horace Loftin, Florida State University; and through exchange, 6,020 Virginia fishes from Dr. Robert Ross, Virginia Polytechnic Institute. Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod, T. F. H. Publications, Inc., Jersey City, N.J., donated 443 South American fishes and aided in securing 18 additional ones. Especially important acquisitions are holotypic and paratypic specimens received from Dr. Jacques R. Géry, Dordogne, France; Dr. Edward C. Raney, Cornell University; Dr. John E. Randall, University of Puerto Rico; Dr. Eugenie Clark, Cape Haze Marine Laboratory; Wayne J. Baldwin, University of California; Dr. Lindsey, University of British Columbia; Dr. J. L. B. Smith, Rhodes University, Grahamstown, South Africa; and Dr. Stanley Weitzman, associate curator in the division of fishes. The addition of some 47 shark specimens undescribed and others representing species not previously
contained in the national collections, was made by Dr. J. C. Briggs,

<<<Page: 46>>>

With a_ helicopter and mountain-peak landing pad, expedition of Associate Curator Handley to Tacarcuna region, Darién, Panama, cut a 5-day pack trip to a half hour. Valley camp shown at right.

<<<Page: 47>>>

University of Texas; Mr. H. Heyamoto and Mr. Susumu Kato, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; Donald Goff, Rehoboth Beach, Delaware; Dr. Carl L. Hubbs, Scripps Institution of Oceanography; Dr. T. Abe, University of Tokyo, Japan; Dr. F. H. Talbot, South African Museum; and Miss Jeanette D. D’Aubrey, Oceanographic Research Institute, Durban, Natal, South Africa. Valuable specimens were also received from Ross Socolof, Gulf Fish Hatchery, Palmetto, Fla., and from Mac Entel, Sumac Trophical Fish Hachery, Miami, Fla.
Of special importance to the division of marine invertebrates was the addition of 27,003 specimens of invertebrates from the Antarctic collected by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, former curator of the division and now research associate. Dr. Schmitt participated in the U.S. Antarctic Research Program aboard the USS Staten Island and made these collections during the Palmer Peninsula-South Shetlands Survey in 1963. Many existing gaps in the national collections of the fauna of these regions have now been filled. Acquisition from Dr. Rh. A. Boolootian, Department of Zoology, University of California, Los Angeles, of the A. Weir Bell collection of Oligochaeta, comprising about 900 slides of sections of these worms, a catalog, and a library of separates of scientific articles dealing with the oligochaetes, was a significent event during the year. A collection of 2,216 specimens of polychaete worms from the Bering Sea was received from Dr. Donald J. Reish, Long Beach State College, Long Beach, Calif.
In the division of mollusks, 187 accessions comprising 69,288 specimens were received during the year; in addition, 334 specimens from previously recorded accessions were added, the largest annual increment since 1953-54. This large increase is due mainly to three large accessions: the personal collection of Arnon L. Mehring consisting of approximately 23,800 specimens; a collection of 17,300 specimens mainly from Okinawa, Ryukyus, purchased through the Chamberlain fund; and 7,600 specimens gathered by Dr. Harald A. Rehder in Tahiti utilizing funds provided by General Frank R. Schwengel in memory of his wife, Jeanne S. Schwengel. Other large accessions include an exchange of 1,350 specimens, with the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia, and a gift of 1,480 specimens from Duncan Emrich of Washington, D.C. Holotypes were received hie the Institute of Marine Science, University of Miami, through
. F. M. Bayer, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Laboratory, ae Mississippi, through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and from Richard E. Petit. A total of 843 specimens including a number of holotypes were added to the helminthological collection during the year. The largest accession, consisting of 339 lots collected in Panama in 1931-34, was presented by Dr. A. O. Foster.

<<<Page: 48>>>

ACCESSIONS Bi)
Entomology
The division of Coleoptera received a total of 49,528 specimens, including 66 holotypes. Major contributions include the following: 730 beetles from Nepal and Pakistan from Dr. J. Maldonado Capriles, University of Puerto Rico; 1,000 North American ground beetles from Mr. John D. Glaser, Baltimore, Md.; 5,500 beetles from Central America and the United States from Dr. John Kingsolver, Insect Identification and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Department of Agriculture; and 1,100 Mexican beetles from Dr. Alfred B. Lau, Mexican Indian Training Center, Cordoba, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
One of the more important accessions was 130 African water beetles, acquired by exchange with Dr. Pierre Basilewsky, Chief, Entomology Section, Royal Museum of Central Africa, Tervuren, Belgium, which included 63 species new to our collection.
As the result of field work conducted by members of the Smithsonian staff the following were acquired: 1,100 miscellaneous South American beetles from Mrs. Doris Blake and Dr. Doris Cochran; 300 scarab beetles from South Carolina obtained by O. L. Cartwright; and 35,600 miscellaneous Mexican and North American beetles collected by Dr. Paul H. Spangler.
The division of Hemiptera received 81,757 specimens in 102 accessions during the year. The most important acquisition of the year was the J. Douglas Hood collection of Thysanoptera (thrips), which contains 1,055 holotypes and 11,203 paratypes of Hood and other workers. The transfer of the very important collection of North American fleas from the Rocky Mountain Laboratory of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, was initiated through the efforts of Dr. William L. Jellison, retired, of that institute. To date 12,780 carefully prepared shdes from this collection have been received. The Scripps Institute of Oceanography, through the cooperation of Dr. Martin W. Johnson and H. George Snyder, presented over 1,300 specimens of the marine water-strider genus /alobates. Other important accessions are: 1,144 ants from the Nevada atomic test site through the cooperation of Dr. Dorald M. Allred, Atomic Energy Commission; 500 Australian ants from Professor B. B. Lowery, St. Ignatius College, Sydney, Australia; and 215 South American ants from Dr. K. W. Cooper, Hanover, N.H. Other Hymenoptera received included 130 named European wasps from Mr. W. S. Pulawski, University of Wroclawskiego, Warsaw, Poland; 486 North American bees and wasps from Dr. K. Y. Kvombein, Arlington, Va.; 157 S. American velvet ants from Osvaldo H. Casal, Instituto Nacional de Microbiologia, Buenos Aires, Argen

<<<Page: 49>>>

tina; 448 Old World cercerid wasps from Dr. H. A. Scullen, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oreg.; 450 North American and Russian chalcid flies from Mr. C. D. F. Miller, Canadian Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada; and 100 European chalcid flies from Dr. A. Hoffer, Prague, Czechoslovakia.
Mr. Friedrich Heller, Staatlisches Museum fiir Naturkunde in Ludwigsburg, Germany, contributed 202 identified European leafhoppers; Mr. N. L. H. Krauss, Honolulu, a constant supporter of the national collection, donated 199 American Hemiptera. Numerous lots of insects received included specimens of more than one order. Among these were 595 specimens collected in Nepal and Pakistan by Mediterranean insects from Dr. J. J. Drea, European Parasite LaboDr. J. Maldonado Capriles, University of Puerto Rico; 431 circumratory, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Nanterre, France; 320 North American insects from Dr. Asa Maxson, Longmont, Colo.; 224 North American examples from Dr. B. D. Burks, Insect Identification and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.; Dr. C. P. Alexander, Amherst, Mass., donated 186 American specimens; and 147 Peruvian specimens were received from Mr. Richard Straw, Lima, Peru.
The division of Lepidoptera received no major collections this year but, largely because of the accelerated field activity of the staff members and cooperating agencies, 72,324 specimens were added to the division’s collections in 108 accessions. Significant contributions made by staff members, include 9,115 specimens of Mexican moths collected by Drs. Don R. Davis and W. Donald Duckworth; 1,280 butterflies from eastern United States collected by William D. Field; Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Gates Clarke contributed 5,746 Lepidoptera (including 760 reared specimens) and 155 Diptera from the island of Rapa; Dr. William L. Stern, of the Division of Plant Anatomy, presented 134 specimens of Philippine butterflies and moths; C. W. Sabrosky, Insect Identification and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Department of Agriculture, contributed 297 specimens of North American flies; 2,718 specimens of North American flies were received from Dr. C. P. Alexander of Amherst, Mass.; 92 Asian flies, including 1 holotype and 9 paratypes, were donated by Dr. Edward I. Coher of Waltham, Mass.; Dr. D. Elmo Hardy, Honolulu, presented 146 South American flies in which number were included 4. holotypes and 2 allotypes; from Dr. H. Kuroko of Fukuoka Prefeeture, Japan, we received 103 Japanese moths.
By transfer, 45,004 specimens were received from the Insect Identification and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Department of Agriculture, retained in the course of identifications made. This accession includes all groups of insects.

<<<Page: 50>>>

The division of Myriapoda and Arachnida received 4,369 specimens in 82 transactions, including a number of extremely rare specimens, many nonexistent in other museums. Mr. H. F. Loomis enriched the millipede collection with approximately 300 both typical and ordinary Neotropical specimens; Dr. G. E. Ball, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, generously presented 425 centipedes from Canada, southwestern United States and Mexico. Dr. R. L. Hoffman, Radford College, Blacksburg, Va., sent 160 centipedes and millipedes, including types of the latter from the United States; curator Ralph E. Crabill contributed 1,100 centipedes from upper Bavaria and Austria, including many specimens otherwise known only from the types; Dr. Nell B. Causey, Fayetteville, Ark., donated 215 centipedes from Arkansas and southeastern United States. Noteworthy among other collections received here are centipedes from Micronesia, New Zealand, and Australia, most of which hitherto have been represented in museums only by their types.
Progress has been made in improving the collection of neuropteroids; 33,969 specimens were acquired in 73 transactions, including specimens of 291 species, 36 genera, and 1 family, not previously represented in the Museum.
The most important single accession consists of a synoptic collection of African dragonflies and damselflies received from Dr. E. C. G. Pinhey, Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia; 2,421 identified North American aquatic insects were received from Dr. Stanley G. Jewett, Jr., Portland, Oreg.; Dr. A. E. Brower, Augusta, Maine, presented 4,296 caddis flies from northeastern United States; 4,002 caddis flies were acquired from Mr. Fritz Plaumann, Nova Teutonia, Brazil; Dr. A. B. Gurney, Insect Identification and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Department of Agriculture, presented 1,882 grasshoppers and lacewings from Texas and Virginia; Dr. O. S. Flint, Jr., of this division collected and presented 6,768 caddisflies.
Botany
An excellent set of 1,859 plants collected on the British Solomon Islands by T. C. Whitmore was received from the Forestry Department at Honiara. Mrs. Paul Bartsch presented the herbarium of Dr. Paul Bartsch consisting of 10,220 plants from Iowa and Virginia, many of them of historical interest. Also received as gifts were 482 plants of Bolivia from M. Cardenas, Cochabamba, Bolivia; 1,055 specimens of Araceae from. southeast Asia from Dan H. Nicolson; 2,215 lichens of Florida and Minnesota from Mason E. Hale; and 945 mosses from Frederick J. Hermann.

<<<Page: 51>>>

There were received in exchange 4,675 plants, which included many collections of historical importance, such as those of Gaudichaud, Sieber, Sodiro, and Vieillard, from the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris; 1,790 specimens mostly collected in northern South America by Bassett Maguire et al., from the New York Botanical Garden; 1,733 specimens from New Guinea, Thailand, and Africa, from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey, England; 1,578 specimens from New Guinea received from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia; 1,380 plants collected in British Guiana by R. J. A. Goodland, from McGill University ; 1,126 plants of Central America from the Escuela Agricola Panamericana, Tegucigalpa, Honduras; 380 fine specimens collected in Argentina by Troels Myndel Pedersen, from the Botanical Museum, University of Copenhagen, Denmark; 306 selected specimens of South African plants from the University of Pretoria, South Africa; 500 mosses from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden ; 209 plants comprising issues 85-88 of Schedae ad Herbarium Florae Rossicae, from the Botanical Institute of the Academy of Sciences, Leningrad, USSR; 3845 woods from the Servico Florestal, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and 187 woods from the Conservator of Forests, Kuching, Sarawak.
A total of 1,347 specimens comprising several collections was received from the Instituto Botanico, Caracas, Venezuela, and 1,142 from the Herbério “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil, in exchange for names. From the University of Michigan were received 542 grasses collected by Rogers McVaugh, and 2,629 woods from Sumatra, the Philippines, Mexico, and British Honduras, mostly collected by the late H. H. Bartlett.
Transferred from Government departments were 9,354 specimens of Alaska from the Geological Survey through Dr. Robert S. Sigafoos, and 1,240 plants of Thailand, from the U.S. Army, Fort Detrick, Md. Collected for the Museum were 564 plants of Alaska from William J. L. Sladen, Baltimore, Md., 544 grasses collected on Trinidad by Thomas R. Soderstrom, and 205 grasses collected by Jason R. Swallen in South Africa.
Paleobiology
In the division of paleobotany important specimens received as gifts include 36 prepared slides containing 84 fossil spore and pollen type specimens from West Africa, from the Jersey Production Research Co., through R. KE. Rohn; 11 silicified stems of the tree fern genus Cyathodendron from the Eocene of Texas, from S. N. Dobie, Whitsett, Tex.; and a large, very well-preserved limb section from the Kocene of
Wyoming from Mr. and Mrs. Jean Case. Dr. F. M. Hueber collected

<<<Page: 52>>>

ACCESSIONS Al
2,000 specimens of Lower Devonian plant remains from the Gaspé and northern New Brunswick region of Canada, the field work supported by the Walcott bequest.
Among the 372,000 specimens accessioned by the division of invertebrate paleontology are a number of major importance. Transfers of type specimens from the U.S. Geological Survey included 160 Cambrian trilobites described by A. R. Palmer; 46 cephalopods from the western interior; conodonts from the Great Basin; corals from the Ordovician of Alaska; and Foraminifera from the Tertiary of Equatorial Africa and from the Gilbert Islands in the central Pacific.
Johns Hopkins University gave 3,700 type specimens described in the well-known Paleozoic volumes of the Maryland Geological Survey stratigraphic series. One thousand specimens of Middle Ordovician and Silurian invertebrates were collected in southwestern Ontario by Dr. and Mrs. G. A. Cooper. Dr. R. S. Boardman completed a major collection of more than 200,000 Paleozoic Bryozoa from a number of measured sections in the Ordovician of Oklahoma. Dr. Franco Rasetti donated 3,500 identified Cambrian trilobites including many type specimens. Dr. A. J. Boucot gave 7,000 Silurian brachiopods collected in Great Britain. A valuable collection of 5,000 mollusks from the Tertiary of Virginia and Maryland was given by Dr. R. J. Taylor. Other gifts included 140 specimens of Upper Paleozoic brachiopods from Chihuahua, Mexico, given by Sr. Teodoro Diaz G.; a large number of Tertiary mollusks from Hampton, Va., by Dr. T. Walley Williams; 10 specimens of unique Tertiary mollusks from Florida by Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Williams; and more than 1,000 thin sections of Mississippian endothyrid Foraminifera, among which were many type specimens, donated by Dr. Edward Zeller.
Funds from the Walcott bequest were used to purchase one of the world’s most complete collections from the Jurassic and Cretaceous of Chile, consisting of more than 20,000 invertebrates, from Mrs. Elsa de Biese, Santiago, Chile. With the cooperation of the Arabian American Oil Company, and financed partly by Walcott funds, Drs. P. M. Mier and E. G. Kauffman of the Museum staff collected more than 25,000 specimens of a variety of invertebrates from Mesozoic rocks of Saudi Arabia. The Springer fund made possible the purchase of 1,023 blastoids and crinoids from the Burlington limestone of Iowa and Missouri, and 120 Triassic echinoids from the Moenkopi formation of Utah.
Outstanding exchanges brought many important specimens, including 150 species of Jurassic and Cretaceous mollusks from the Geological Survey of Pakistan; 160 plastotypes of Mesozoic mollusks housed at the University de Lyon; 12 species of ammonites from Moscow
74499364 —_4

<<<Page: 53>>>

University ; and 50 plastotypes of Upper Cretaceous species in the collections of the Texas Bureau of Economic Geology.
In the division of vertebrate paleontology two outstanding accessions resulted from field collecting by the staff: Dr. C. L. Gazin collected some 350 specimens of early Tertiary mammals, principally from the middle Eocene Bridger formation of southwestern Wyoming, including a wealth of small forms such as primates, rodents, insectivores, and carnivores, and from the Fossil, Green River, and Bison Basins. Dr. D. H. Dunkle, assisted by Mr. Gladwyn B. Sullivan, collected approximately 307 specimens of fossil fish; the greater number, from new localities in the upper Madera formation of Permian or possibly Pennsylvanian age in central New Mexico, consisted principally of sharks, acanthodian, paleoniscoid, and coelacanth fish. Other important collections of these forms were obtained from the Pennsylvanian Wea shale in Nebraska and Iowa. In addition, a small collection of Zeptolepis remains was made in the Jurassic Todilto limestone of New Mexico, and various bones of arthrodires and crossopterygians were collected in a Middle Devonian quarry in Ohio.
Particular mention is made of a collection of 122 specimens of heterostrachian, acanthodian, and arthrodire fish from a Lower Devonian quarry in Lucas County, Ohio, received in an exchange with the Chicago Natural History Museum.
A collection of Pleistocene vertebrate remains from Cartersville, Ga., donated by Shorter College of Rome, Ga., includes at least 20 species and is important as the most extensive Pleistocene vertebrate fauna
yet discovered in Georgia.
Mineral Sciences
A total of 9,230 specimens was received in the division of mineralogy. Outstanding among the many important gifts was an exceptionally fine gem-quality topaz crystal from Brazil, from Oscar Heyman and Brothers, Inc. Other important gifts were scapolite, Madagascar, from John B. Tago; rhodonite, Franklin, N.J., from Mrs. Frank A. Lewis; opal, Australia, from Leland Quick; and tourmaline, Brazil, from Bernard T. Rocca, Sr. Among the specimens received by exchange was a fine specimen of cuprosklodowskite, from the Congo, a very fine large brazilianite crystal, from Brazil, and an exceptionally fine, large, gem-quality crystal of beryl, variety aquamarine, also from Brazil.
Among the 4,118 specimens added to the Roebling collection by purchase or exchange; were a very large Japanese twin of quartz, from Arizona; a fine specimen of scolecite from Brazil; a crystal of

<<<Page: 54>>>

scapolite of unusually large size, from Mexico; some fine francevillite and chervetite from Gabon; and some outstanding specimens of raspite from Australia. Acquired by purchase through the Canfield fund was a very large crystal of chrysoberyl, from Russia, and an extraordinary crystal of danburite, from Baja California, Mexico.
Outstanding new additions to the gem collection included a 1,000carat aquamarine, from Brazil, from Evyan Perfumes, Inc.; a very unusual star sapphire showing four separate stars, from Ceylon, from Sidney Krandall and Sons; a jade bowl, formerly in the Vetlesen collection, from Mrs. Mildred Tabor Keally; a Mexican opal, from Mrs. Frank A. Lewis; two fine kunzites from Brazil, weighing 296.78 and 336.16 carats, from Robert C. Nelson, Jr.; four diamonds of rare blue and green colors, from Van Cleef and Arpels, Inc.; and a collection of spheres of jade, petrified wood, and other gem materials, from Albert R. Cutter. Gems acquired by purchase from the Chamberlain fund for the Isaac Lea collection included a 22.35-carat golden sapphire and a 24.15-carat cat’s eye diopside.
Five very exceptional gems, all from Brazil, were added to the collection by exchange: A golden-green beryl weighing 1,363 carats, a 914-carat green beryl, a greenish-colored topaz weighing 1,469 carats, a 1,362-carat amethyst, and a heart-shaped kunzite weighing 880 carats. Received from an anonymous donor was the Portuguese diamond, a very fine step-cut stone weighing 127.01 carats. The Portuguese diamond is the largest cut diamond from Brazil and the 13th largest in the world. In the 1920’s it was recut to its present shape from a 150-carat cushion-shaped stone. Details of its early history are unknown, but it is said that it was once owned by the royal family of Portugal.
Twenty-eight meteorites not previously represented in the collection were accessioned during the year, out of a total of 83, making this the best year in some time. The most important single addition was the collection of the late Arthur R. Allen of Trinidad, Colo., containing 45 meteorites and 636 grams of tektites. Specimens of particular interest were the 14 fine oriented individuals of the Pasamonte, New Mexico fall (totaling 1.3 kg.) and a Canyon Diablo specimen containing a large diamond inclusion. Seven stony meteorites that had not been previously known were included: Alamosa, Colo. (1.8 ke.) ; Blackwell, Okla. (2.4 kg.); Georgetown, Colo. (0.68 kgs.) ; Mosquero, N. Mex. (1.6 kg.) ; Thatcher, Colo. (2 g.) ; Tobe, Colo. (5.4 ke.) ; and Mosca, Colo. (6.1 kg.). Outstanding among the donations received during the year was a specimen of the widely publicized Bogou iron, which was presented by President Maurice Yameogo of the Republic of Upper Volta.

<<<Page: 55>>>

4t4 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,
Science and Technology
In the division of physical sciences an outstanding accession was the gift from Vassar College of the large telescope built in 1863, by Henry Fitz, one of America’s famous telescope makers, and used by Maria Mitchell at Vassar. Preston Bassett lent an 8-sided revolving mirror used by Albert Michelson in his famous determination of the velocity of light in 1924. A Collins helium cryostat, from Loyola University of New Orleans and Arthur D. Little, Inc., and an earlier Collins cryogenic expansion machine, from Samuel C. Collins, are basic artifacts in the recent development of commercially available low-temperature apparatus.
In the section of chemistry, outstanding accessions relating to the element fluorine were a replica of the platinum apparatus for electrolysis and distillation used by Henry Moissan in his epochal isolation of fluorine (1886), and a commerical fluorine cell made by the Harshaw Company in 1942-43 and given to us by the company. ‘The Moissan apparatus was fabricated through the courtesy of the Baker Platinum Division of Engelhard Industries, Inc.
The collection of adding and calculating machines in the section of mathematics was notably enriched by the gift of 76 specimens from the Victor Comptometer Corportion. The gift includes several famous historical machines, such as the Schilt adding machine of 1851, the oldest European key-driven machine; a Bollee direct-multiplication machine, one of only three such machines made by Louis Bollee between 1888 and 1892; and the famous Scheutz difference engine of 1853, the first complete difference engine ever built. A replica of Charles Babbage’s difference engine was donated by the International Business Machines Corporation.
Among the most outstanding accessions in the section of light machinery and horology was a pocket watch made by Henry and James F. Pitkin of East Hartford, Conn., in about 1838. This specimen is an example of the first American attempt at watchmaking by machines. Other significant acquisitions by this section were a splendid example of a French skeleton clock of the late 18th century and a combination lock patented in 1841 by Dr. Solomon Andrews, an American inventor.
The section of tools acquired the J. R. Brown linear dividing machine of 1859 from the Brown and Sharpe Company, which was a milestone in the history of measurement in American manufacturing. A. fully operative reproduction of the gun-stocking lathe developed by Thomas Blanchard in 1820-22 was also received. This pioneer machine, the original of which is in the Springfield Armory in Springfield, Mass., represents the beginning of American mass production by machine tools. <A rare 19th-century Holtzapftel ornamental turn

<<<Page: 56>>>

Magneto-electric generator made _ in 1832 or 1833, representing first use of a commutator, invented by A. M. Ampere, for production of direct current. Cam on the vertical shaft caused contact to be made on the crossed strips of copper first in one direction, then in the other.

<<<Page: 57>>>

ing lathe was acquired with a very comprehensive collection of accessories. Edward Johansson, Royal Swedish Consul at Detroit, donated a set of Johansson gauge blocks for the hall. The adoption of the system of gauges, invented in the late 19th century by his father, C. E. Johansson, revolutionized mass production by making it possible to achieve universal interchangeability of machine parts. This particular set was the first to be produced in stainless steel and was made especially to be given to the inventor, on his 71st birthday in 1933. The presentation was made in a formal ceremony in the hall of tools on March 13 by the Royal Swedish Ambassador, His Excellency Hubert de Besch.
Among the outstanding models received by the division of transportation, were a Pacific Coast lumber steamer, a 4-masted barkentine, and the schooner “ly of 1812. A model of the new class of fast freight steamers, the American Chailenger, 1962 record holder for the North Atlantic crossing by a freighter, was received from the United States Lines as a gift.
The oldest scale model of an American-built ship, His Majesty’s 44-oun ship America, built at Portsmouth, N.H., in 174647, was received as a 3-year loan from the trustees of the Portsmouth Athenaeum, Portsmouth, N.H., on a special agreement. The model will be repaired and exhibited by the marine section and, after a year, transferred to the division of naval history for a 2-year exhibition period.
Three early railway signals (1880-1905) were donated by ‘Thomas T. Taber to the section of land transportation. The vehicle collection was enriched by several important additions. The Mack Bulldog truck (1950) is the first commercial motor vehicle to be added to the collection and was donated by Victor Ottilio & Sons. <A fine Rockaway (1860) was the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Flemer, Jr. A Hack Passenger Wagon (1880), more commonly called a mud wagon, was also added to the carriage collection.
The largest object accessioned in the division of electricity was an 85-ton alternating-current generator from the Adams station at Niagara Falls, donated jointly by Niagara-Mohawk Power Corp. and Westinghouse Electric Corp. It is this alternator that maugurated in 1895 the modern era of central stations distributing electrical power over large areas. A somewhat smaller, but very important, magneto generator was received from the University of Virginia. It was made by Hippolyte Pixii in 1832 or 1838, and represents the first use of a commutator for the production of direct current. Only two other machines like this are known to exist in the world. <A third generator, by Charles Wheatstone, was obtained on indefinite loan from King’s College, University of London. It is one of the first

<<<Page: 58>>>

examples of a self-excited dynamo, a principle that was discovered coincidentally by Wheatstone in England and Werner Siemens in Germany in 1866. Excellent replicas of four alternating current motors representing the pioneer work of Galileo Ferraris in 1885 were given to the museum by the Associazione Elettrotecnica ed Elettronica Italiana and Istituto Elettrotecnico Nazionale Galileo Ferraris of Turin.
Among the major accessions during the past year in the division of medical sciences were a collection of tools and research apparatus used in a late 19th-century microbiology and biochemistry laboratory, donated by the University of Michigan, and the 1953 hydraulic turbine contra-angle handpiece with accessories and test model for dental drilling, from the National Bureau of Standards. Also acquired were the office material, dental instruments, and personal memorabilia of Dr. Charles E. Kells as a gift from his daughter, Mrs. J. O. Pierson, through the School of Medicine of Tulane University. ‘To the pharmaceutical collection, an ancient Egyptian mortar and pestle, weights, and amulets were added.
Arts and Manufactures
Mr. Ralph E. Becker presented to the division of textiles a comprehensive collection of silk Jacquard-woven pictures. These interesting examples of an unusual weaving art date from 1867 through the 1930's. The wide variety of subjects include pictures of Columbus sighting America, Betsy Ross stitching the flag, and facsimiles of the signatures of the Declaration of Independence. An excellent collection of American needlework was presented by Dr. Margaret R. Sandels. One of the embroidered pictures, Z’he Sea Beast, of Mrs. 'Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., a noted needlewoman, was given by Mr. and Mrs. Sidney dela Rue. A colorful 18th-century floral border by the distinguished French designer, Philippe de Lasalle, was added to the brocade collection.
Mrs. Clara W. Berwick supplemented her previous gifts to the division of ceramics and glass by 74 pieces of rare early American glass and 22 European and Oriental ivories. Robert H. McCauley presented 65 pieces of Liverpool-type transfer-printed earthenware, including a number of rare pitchers decorated with American themes. Mr. McCauley is the author of the definitive book, Liverpool Transfer Designs on Anglo-American Pottery. Mr. William A. Sutherland continued to add to the division’s collection of 18th-century English porcelains. This year she gave 28 fine examples of the production of 10 important factories, including a splendid Derby pitcher and

<<<Page: 59>>>

a rare Lowestoft coffee pot. Dr. Hans Syz presented by transfer 53 pieces of 18th-century European porcelain. This collection, one of the finest in America, is especially notable for examples of the important German factories, such as Meissen, Berlin, Hohst, Frankenthal, Ludwigsburg, and of the extremely rare Viennese porcelain of the DuPaquier period.
Liverpool pitcher, ca. 1805, with full-length transfer print of Thomas Jefferson. From Robert H. McCauley collection.
The most important accession received in the division of graphic arts was a bequest of 243 Currier & Ives lithographs of sporting and western subjects from the Adele S. Colgate Estate. This gift greatly enhances the standing of the Museum’s collection of Currier & Ives prints. The important gift of Mr. Erich Cohn of 20 drawings and etchings by the German expressionist artists, Paul Kleinschmidt and Ludwig Meidner, records a part of what was probably the strongest group contribution to printmaking in this century. The Society of Washington Printmakers donated, through its President, M1. Prentiss Taylor, the intaglo print, Zmage 7/17, by Lois Fine; the woodeut Zhe Valley, by Isabella Walker; and the lithograph, Nova Scotia, by Louis Lozowick.
The section of photography acquired a number of historically noteworthy specimens of photographs and equipment. Lucien G. Bull of Paris presented a large group of material related to the early history

<<<Page: 60>>>

of high-speed photography, consisting of original negatives, prints and an electromechanical timing device. Ansco, Binghampton, N.Y., presented a model of a photographic wagon of the type used by Mathew Brady during the Civil War. Nikon, Inc., presented a “Nikonos” 3 mm. underwater camera, with watertight lens and body, for use under water without a protective housing. The New York Daily Mirror donated a lightweight Zeiss Ikon, Ernemann plate camera, originally purchased in the 1930’s by William Randolph Hearst to replace the bulkier cameras used by his newspapers, and another specially designed camera intended to take pictures from a concealed position.
The division of manufactures and heavy industries continued to collect for the various halls planned for the Museum of History and Technology. New York University presented to the section of nuclear energy the first subcritical reactor to be installed in a teaching institution. It was improvised from two tons of fuel lent by the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission and installed in a pickle barrel, and it enabled the university to secure at a cost of $1,500 a teaching research facility which might otherwise have been unattainable.
Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company presented a model of an electric weld pipe mill for the hall of iron and steel. A malleable-iron air furnace was given by Erie Malleable Iron Co.; and some Roman nails from the Inchtuthil excavation in Scotland came from Colvilles, Ltd., of Glasgow.
The section of petroleum received further gifts as a result of the excellent work of the American Petroleum Institute’s subcommittee. Among these were: An animated model of a modern sea-going drilling installation from Kerr-McGee Oil Industries, Inc.; three models of drilling rigs from the Lee C. Moore Corp.; and an interesting survey model of the Velma field from Skelly Oil Co.
The division of agriculture and forest products has been principally concerned with obtaining materials for the hall of forest products. The Forest Products Laboratory, Department of Agriculture, Madison, Wis., gave a swellograph—a device that measures swelling changes in wood which has a finished surface. Larus and Brother Co., Inc., reproduced a tobacco hogshead like those used 125 to 150 years ago. Permali, Inc., contributed samples of machined parts for electrical equipment and Fibron Products, Buffalo, N.Y., gave 17 handsome pieces of compressed wood products. To the agricultural collection has been added catalogs of agricultural implement companies around 1880 belonging to Sylvanus D. Locke, the inventor of the famous wire binder. Mr. Gordon Dentry donated a 4-tined wooden fork used by his grandfather and possibly his great-grandfather in Baltimore County, Md.

<<<Page: 61>>>

Civil History
Several items with Presidential associations received in the division of political history include a pair of leather chaps worn by President Theodore Roosevelt in the Dakota Territory, the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt; a meerschaum pipe used by President Ulysses S. Grant in the White House, from the estate ef George W. Crouch; one of the microphones used by President Franklin D. Roosevelt during his “fireside chats” to the American people in the 1930’s and 1940's, the gift of the Columbia Broadcasting System and WTOP-Radio, Washington, D.C.; a pen used on Jan. 23, 1964, by President Lyndon B. Johnson to sign the bill establishing the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the gift of Senator Clinton P. Anderson. Important additions to the First Ladies collection are two dresses worn by Mrs. Grover Cleveland as First Lady and an evening cape which had belonged to her, gifts of Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. Cleveland. One of the new dresses, of black satin and iridescent taffeta, now represents Mrs. Cleveland in the exhibit in the First Ladies hall.
During the year, 303 examples of costume were added to the American costume collection. Outstanding among these additions were a diamond necklace given by Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Breyer, Jr.; a diamond and pearl necklace donated by Mrs. Gibson L. Caldwell; a collection of very fine furs given by Mrs. Herbert A. May; an 18thcentury wedding dress given by Miss Lenora Bessey through Mrs. Austin H. Clark; a pair of shoe buckles of about 1800 donated by Miss Gertrude Watts; and a wedding dress of 1858 given by Mrs. Lloyd S. Smith.
The division of cultural history received the frame and woodwork of an entire house, the gift of Alexander B. C. Mulholland; built in Ipswich, Mass., the older portion of this house dates from the late 17th century and the remainder from about 1750. The Honorable David Bruce presented 18th-century woodwork and paneling from two rooms from Charleston, S.C., houses. The architecture of Louis Sullivan is represented in one lot of ornaments from his Chicago Stock Exchange Building, given by Mr. and Mrs. Leon M. Despres, and in another lot from Sullivan’s Garrick Building, given by the Joint Committee on Preservation of the Garrick Building Ornament aad by the World Book Eneyelopedia. Mr. and Mrs. Fielding Pope Meigs, Jr., presented 223 miscellaneous pieces of furniture, utensils, portraits, and other items, all heirlooms of the Meigs family. Other gifts include 33 rare early maps, a gouache by D. Y. Cameron, a paint

<<<Page: 62>>>

ing by Thomas Wood, and two silver cans by Samuel Edwards, from Mrs. Francis P. Garvan; an 18th-century account and letter book of Alexander Smith of Alexandria, from Mrs. Jean M. Dodd; two mahogany side chairs from Mrs. Wellington Powell; and four side chairs and a Pennsylvania rocking chair from Mrs. George Maurice Morris. The family of Harry T. Peters donated a poster advertising a traveling menagerie from the Zoological Institute of New York City dated 1835, a rare and early example of its kind.
Drum used in the funeral of President John F. Kennedy, presented by the Department of Defense.

<<<Page: 63>>>

o2 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,
To the division of numismatics was added an original pewter striking of the noted Castorland token made for the officers of the French colony established at Carthage, N.Y., 1796, and a rare pattern half dollar of 1916, both given by Ben Douglas. Other outstanding additions to the United States series were a $20 goldpiece in high relief and a $10 goldpiece originally owned by Henry Hering, who completed the design of these coins in 1907 for Augustus St. Gaudens, and Mr. Hering’s notes concerning the history of this gold coinage and the interest in it of President Theodore Roosevelt; these were the gift of Stack’s of New York. A die used by the J. J. Conway Co. of Colorado in the striking of a private $5 goldpiece was donated by Robert Bashlow. Joseph B. Stack gave tintypes of the Bechtler family, well-known private gold coiners from North Carolina, a daguerreotype of John Little Moffat, a leading coimer in San Francisco during the gold rush, and the notebook of the mint engraver, J. B. Longacre, concerning the design of the 1856 flying-eagle cent.
An important collection of silver bars, bullet money, and various forms of media of exchange used in Siam and China was donated by Mrs. F. C. C. Boyd; Harvey Stack gave the Edith and Jean Jacques Ture collection of necessity pieces issued in France and the French colonies during the 1914-26 period. Willis du Pont added 645 coins struck during the second part of the reign of Catherine II of Russia and 210 Russian silver and bronze medals. Mrs. Wayte Raymond gave 1,167 coins of the world struck during the 19th and 20th centuries. Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer Neinken made an important contribution of a specialized collection of checks of United States banks and a collection of nearly 10,000 items of European paper currencies and documents of value. The first instance of the use of paper in coinage, a quarter gulden in cardboard issued in Leyden in 1573 during the seige by the Spaniards, was a gift from Dr. V. Clain-Stefanelli.
To the division of philately and postal history Baron Takaharu Mitsui of Tokyo, Japan, donated an outstanding group of early letters and documents pertaining to the private posts of 19th-century Japan and the early government postal service of that country. Morrison Waud of Chicago, Ill, gave a large and comprehensive collection of United States newspaper stamps, proofs, essays, and forgeries and 669 examples of stamped revenue paper. Mr. and Mrs. R. O. D. Hopkins donated a collection of essays and die proofs of the stamps of China and placed additional material of that nature on loan. <A large specialized collection of stamps of South Africa was given by Dr. O. L. Harvey. Dr. James Matejka donated early airmail stamps of Syria and a rare airmail stamp of France. Harry L. Lindquist donated a large number of United States and foreign

<<<Page: 64>>>

Model of Robert Fulton’s 26-gun Steam Battery (1814), the first steam man-of-war.

<<<Page: 65>>>

covers, many of which bear special postal markings and commemorative stamps. Charles H. Wuerz, Jr., continued to contribute stamps of Siam in an effort to complete that section of the National Postage Stamp collection.
Armed Forces History
A fine example of a Gatling gun was presented by the Armed Forces of Honduras. Mrs. George C. Marshall presented several uniforms worn by General of the Army George C. Marshall during World War II. The division of naval history made significant additions to the national collection of historic warship models while projecting further units required to complete the hall of armed forces history. Particularly notable was a rigged model of Robert Fulton’s Steam Battery, the world’s first steam man-o-war, which was built by Adam and Noah Brown in 1814 for the defense of New York. Plans for this 26-gun blockship were provided by Howard I. Chapelle who in 1961 discovered a contemporary draught of the Steam Battery in the Danish Royal Archives at Copenhagen. By happy coincidence, the division of naval history also received an original Fulton draught of the armored torpedo boat J/ute, presented by the family of George F. Brown, descendants of her versatile builders, the Brown brothers of New York. ‘The emergence of the steam navy was further represented with the completion of a superb model of the side-wheel steamer Powhatan which served with Commodore Perry in the opening of trade with Japan.
Through the generosity of the U. S. Coast Guard, the division of naval history received a fully-equipped beach cart of the type used by the Life Saving Service for offshore rescue, a set of range lights from Alaska, and an oil painting by Hunter Wood of the topmast schooner Massachusetts, first cutter commissioned by the early Revenue Marine.
A patent model of the revolutionary K—1 firing device, the heart of the antenna mine employed in the North Sea mine barrage during World War I, was presented by Mrs. Ralph C. Brown, widow of its eifted inventor. Vivid memories of the battle of Midway were evoked by the bullet-torn flight jacket and combat decorations donated by George H. Gay, sole survivor of Torpedo Squadron 8.
Among the more important objects acquired by the section of underwater exploration during the year are ship’s fittings from a wreck site in Bermuda believed to date from the 1560’s. These include a bar shot, several single blocks, two parrels, small and medium-sized deadeyes, and a large collection of ceramic sherds some of which will yield nearly complete vessels when reconstructed.

<<<Page: 66>>>

Care of Collections
Accessions TransLent for (transacferred to study to tions) Exchanged other Govinvestigators 1964 Received on with other ernment and other Specimens Departments (new) loan institutions agencies institutions identified ANIME ATRO}ONONOBY, 5 6 o 6 6 123 3 504 0 473 256, 100 HO OLO Leas fo lke kw) ee 591 4,203 3,380 198 29,249 40,774 JDIMIOWMONOAY.5 5 6 6 6 6 381 0 3,488 1 D0, (a5) 0 SOLEMN Nem teas! as. ge, ius 378 4,047 16, 807 0 29, 226 17, 843 IPAIAOIONOIOAY 6 6 o 6 6 ¢ 149 2,787 2,619 0 9, 733 31, 562 Mineral Sciences... . 329 1 1, 589 140 717 92 Science and Technology . 291 2 13 1 ad 0 Arts and Manufactures . 203 2 0 0 34 917 (Citvilll Iason s G5 6 6 573 a2 0) 0) IOs AH, isis Armed Forces History. . 119 IG 4 0 91 315 MOTE re yeti ess ce ay ey iil, Aa¥vb We, Beth — B40) 1 IGS B45 BE} Anthropology
The custodial and other departmental activities concerned with maintenance and preservation of collections are still hampered by construction work, but improvement over the preceding year can be noted in several particulars. In the division of archeology, all storage units from the third floor corridors have been moved to permanent quarters on the fourth floor; the special air-conditioned textile room at the east end of the attic has been occupied; metal shelving for heavy stone objects has been installed behind the exhibits area in hall 21; and much useful space for storage of drawers, trays, and pasteboard boxes has been gained by partial flooring over the skyhght space. White paint on the walls and added lighting fixtures have very greatly improved working facilities in the division’s attic space.
In the division of ethnology, the movement of North American Indian collections into the north attic has been almost completed; and the arrival of a supply of storage cases has made possible a significant improvement in the previously crowded conditions here. The rearrangement of the African and Asian collections on the fifth floor of the east wing continued; special attention was given items requiring protection. A temporary workshop for cleaning and restoration of objects needed for exhibits was set up in the attic, and a crew of college students worked on a contract basis under technical supervision of Mr. Charles Olin of the Conservation Laboratory. Continuation of this successful enterprise is anticipated.

<<<Page: 67>>>

In the division of physical anthropology, a double move of the brain collection and the Aleutian and Kodiak Island materials, was occasioned by preparation for renovation of the present quarters of the division.
The repair and restoration of damaged anthropological specimens, including newly received objects and others from older collections continued to occupy the time of exhibits specialist A. J. Andrews; approximately 200 archeological, ethnological, and skeletal items were treated in his laboratory. As in previous years, several tasks were done for other units in the Smithsonian Institution, and technical information on preservation and conservation methods was suppled to individuals outside the agency. Scientific illustrator George R. Lewis completed 465 stippleand 87 line-drawings, 25 maps and charts, 2 signs and labels, 1 color and 6 detailed pencil drawings, most of which will be included in archeological and ethnological manuscripts intended for publication.
Zoology
The rapid growth of the collections, the necessary disruptions of normal routine procedures by the building construction program, and the anticipated move to new quarters combined to create unusually dificult problems in caring for the zoological collections.
In the division of mammals, good progress was made by museum aide B. T. Lovinggood in rearranging the alcoholic collections, and about two-thirds of this material is now properly organized; newly accessioned material was integrated as it was received. The cardindex system was reorganized and brought up to date. The renovation of the west attic was completed and the skeleton collection that had been evacuated from that area in the previous year was returned ; its final arrangement cannot be made until the part of the attic area now occupied by other divisions is made available.
In the division of birds, museum specialist Theodore S. Bober has had major responsibility for the care of the collections. With his assistance, Dr. George E. Watson planned for the installation of 400 new cases in the skin and skeleton collection. Under the direction of the latter, summer intern David A. Bratley rearranged the entire library collection, rare folio volumes and field catalogs now being stored in locked cabinets. Dr. R. L. Zusi supervised arrangements for the installation of equipment in the alcoholic storage room and has developed plans for rearranging the anatomical collections. A geographic punch-card file of species needed for the skeleton and alcoholic collections is in preparation, and lists of desiderata will be prepared for field parties in various parts of the world. Research

<<<Page: 68>>>

associate Alexander Wetmore, and Dr. Lester L. Short, Jr., John W. Aldrich, and Mrs. Roxie Laybourne of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service have generously provided identifications and information to the division of birds. Dr. Short assumed major responsibility for the care of the collection of North American birds.
In the division of reptiles and amphibians, museum aide Dorsey Williams completed an inventory of the entire collection of reptiles and amphibians. Most of the specimens misplaced in previous years have been located and properly filed, recent acquisitions have all been cataloged, and only a limited number of specimens remain to be identified.
With the assistance of a temporary aide in the division of fishes, about 50 percent of the glass jars in the alcohol storage area were examined and the alcohol content replaced or altered to proper level and strength. This project will be continued and should be accelerated by the addition of another aide in the division. About 47 new storage tanks were acquired, replacing about twice as many crocks. This project is progressing slowly; there remain 132 crocks from which the loss of alcohol endangers the specimens stored in them. A new system of cataloging collections, involving 3 x 5’’ cards, has been devised and will be operational by July 1964.
Critical shortage of space in the existing alcohol stack in the division of marine invertebrates has resulted from the acquisition of large collections from the Antarctic and from the Atlantic coast, and from the return of large segments of collections which had been sent to specialists for identification. These collections have necessitated the use of temporary storage in other divisions and at the Sorting Center. Dry collections, now stored in a number of areas in the Natural History Museum, were almost completely reorganized for moving them into the west wing. The worm groups were rearranged and put in proper order, collections of stomatopods were expanded and reorganized, and nondecapod crustacean types were segregated and reshelved systematically. Museum specialist Henry B. Roberts, who bears primary responsibility for the organization of the move of the collections, spent considerable time in designing and planning new cataloging procedures. Mrs. Emily Mandelbaum, museum technician, made great progress in the cataloging of the polychaete collection and spent considerable time in rearranging general collections. Miss Maureen Downey, museum technician, continued her work on the echinoderm collection and arranged publications, manuscripts, and other documents in preparation for the move of the division. Museum technician Roland Brown assisted in the movement of collections in the alcohol stacks and processed incoming collections; and museum technician T. P. Lowe completed the organization of the coral collections
744-993-645

<<<Page: 69>>>

and of the stony hydroids. Much progress was made in examining the alcoholic collections for state of preservation and transferring specimens from the older ground-glass sealed bottles to clamp-top, rubber sealed jars. Summer intern James Casey worked principally on the divisional library, bringing the filing of separates and their card indexing up to date. Summer intern Richard Laub arranged the Tertiary fossil corals, a collection that had never been organized.
With the addition of new quarter-unit cases in the division of mollusks, the storage facilities for the reference collection is adequate, and progress has been made in distributing the previously crowded portions of the collection in the new cases. A rearrangement of certain families that have been sorted on a geographical basis to a systematic one was 2lso initiated. The helminthological collection, both slides and alcoholic specimens, in the care of the Beltsville Parasitological Laboratory, is in excellent condition.
Entomology
In the division of Coleoptera, with the aid of a National Science Foundation grant, several thousand specimens of the scarab genus Atsenius were mounted. labeled, and placed in museum drawers, and 7,000 specimens of Neotropical water beetles were prepared for critical study and placed in standard museum drawers. An additional 9,500 specimens of water beetles are on hand and preparation of them is continuing.
David R. Rentz, while serving as a summer intern, incorporated certain orthopterous insects, accumulated over a period of many years, with the main series of our determined collection. This major project required the sorting of 146,000 specimens and arranging them in their proper places under appropriate names. This part of the collection now occupies 400 drawers in 19 standard cases.
Marked improvement in the collection of Neuroptera, Trichoptera, and allied groups occurred again this year with the addition of more than 20,000 specimens. Among these were 291 species, 36 genera, and one family not previously represented in the national collection.
This year emphasis has been placed on reorganization and rehabilitation in the Hemiptera collection. Mrs. Florence A. Ruhoff has heen instrumental in accomplishing this task. The major heteropterous families Lygaeidae, Miridae, Reduviidae and Coreidae, as well as most of the small families, were rearranged and labeled to conform to a uniform system now in use, and in the process numerous small lots of specimens were incorporated. The rearranged part of the collection now occupies 779 standard drawers. Research associate Carl J, Drake actively continued improvement of the Drake collection

<<<Page: 70>>>

by a program of exchange and cooperative publication with other workers. By this means he acquired numerous types and specimens of other species not previously represented in the national collection.
Research associate C. F. W. Muesebeck continued to bring improvement and growth to the collection of braconid wasps by an active program of research and by his cooperative work with students in other institutions.
In the division of Lepidoptera the condition of the collection continued to improve during the year. Mrs. Joan Ledbetter, museum aide, completed labeling and transferring to standard museum drawers the following three collections: Ernest Shoemaker collection, 4,100 specimens; J. C. Hopfinger collection, 5,500 specimens; Graham Heid collection, 1,500 specimens. In addition, Mrs. Ledbetter spread and labeled 1,100 specimens obtained on recent expeditions. More than 1,600 Microlepidoptera from Rapa, mostly Tortricidae, have been prepared, labeled and placed in the collection. The Neotropical Yponomeutidae were rearranged and properly labeled in accordance with contemporary systems, and the Western Hemisphere Stenomidae were appreciably augmented by the identification and addition of many species not previously represented.
Summer intern Jay C. Shaffer amalgamated three separate collections of pyraloid moths totaling 11,500 specimens into a single, wellorganized unit, making available heretofore nearly maccessible data.
Restoration and rehousing of the oldest holdings of Arachnida and Myriapoda continued. Many old specimens have been restored by the use of trisodium phosphate, rebottled and relabeled. More than 306,000 ticks were restored during the past year by museum aide Mrs. Sophie Lutterlough, using this procedure, and the treatment of the tick collection is continuing. Many old or damaged microscopic preparations have been disassembled and remounted.
During the year Mrs. Mary Quigley mounted 5,079 miscellaneous insects and summer intern Mrs. Kathleen Rentz prepared 3,283 miscellaneous insects, all of which were incorporated in the collection.
Botany
The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the processing of new material are summarized in the following table:
1962-638 1963-64
Specimens and photographs mounted ... . 30, 441 21, 734 Specimens repaired .. . . OW Op ceceep 13, 925 9, 744 Specimens stamped and recor dle al Petar neck 34, 692 15, 727
Specimens incorporated in herbarium or addled i the permanent collections. ........ 20, 424 44, 845

<<<Page: 71>>>

There are now 59,732 types in the segregated type herbarium, including 41,719 phanerogams, 10,133 grasses, 3,484 ferns, and 4,396 cryptogams. ‘This is an increase of 430 types during the year.
Paleobiology
In the division of paleobotany museum technician James P. Ferrigno, under the supervision of associate curator Francis M. Hueber, segregated approximately 48 percent of the primary and secondary type specimens from the general] paleobotanical collections. The types are being checked for accuracy of labeling by comparing them with original illustrations and descriptions, and are being arranged alphabetically under the heading used in their original publication. After completion of segregation, the individual groups of specimens will be arranged in chronological order by publication, thus eliminating the problems raised by changes in taxonomic classification of particular species, and also by changes of interpretation of geologic age of the specimens.
Curatorial work in the invertebrate paleontology collections centered on the carding of type specimens. Much progress was made in building a card file of all types as an addition to the standard cataloging procedures now in use. The cards serve as a ready reference for specimen control and as the primary source of data for a published catalog, the first section of which is in the final stage of preparation. The conodont and Paleozoic nautiloid collections are carded and the manuscript preparation is undergoing final typing; the blastoid, cystoid, and echinoid type collections are carded and waiting for the recording of the crinoids prior to publication.
Dr. P. M. Kier completed the integration of the U.S. Geological Survey collection of fossil echinoids with the museum collection, making for the first time a usable biologically arranged collection of all specimens available at the museum.
The arrival of some new cases has enabled storage of part of the extensive stratigraphically arranged reference collections. Museum specialist Frederick Collier and museum technician Lorenzo Ford checked the geographic arrangement and placed more than 250 quarter-unit cases of drawers containing tens of thousands of specimens. These collections are now readily available for the first time since the move to the east wing storage area where they had been stacked. ;
Dr. Richard Cifelli developed a significant advance in the preparation and sorting of Foraminifera from general plankton collections. Concentrations of the calcitic skeletal parts of the planktonics are

<<<Page: 72>>>

rapidly achieved by ignition: the sample is washed with distilled water and dried, it is then burned at a temperature of 500° C. to remove all organic matter, leaving foraminiferal tests unaltered. Because the average plankton sample consists of a large variety of organisms with high protoplasm-skeletal ratios, the work of separating the Foraminifera from the mass with needles has been a tedious and timeconsuming task. With this new technique, the number of samples handled is greatly mcreased over a given time.
In vertebrate paleontology the recent acquisition of storage cases to completely utilize the space provided on the first floor of the east wing now permits better distribution and organization of the collections and, as planned, provides for a normal increase in the collections for several years. Transfer to this storage area of the large residue of fossil fish and the smaller collections of fossil birds, formerly on the steel range of the old storage area, has freed the latter for the rapidly expanding collections of fossil marine mammals and has also permitted better care of the large series of titanothere skulls, formerly on display but now stored in temporary, inadequate racks on the ground floor of the old area.
Laboratory technician removing plankton sample after ignition in muffle furnace located in foraminiferal laboratory. Sample contains concentrate of shelled organisms (mostly Foraminifera, Pteropoda, some Radiolaria) mixed with fine ash.

<<<Page: 73>>>

The construction of covered racks with sliding doors over the quarter-unit cases of each third double row, now two-fifths completed, provides adequately protected space for storage of most of the larger dinosaur bones, fish slabs, and plaques. An important beginning was aiso made in similarly protecting the numerous, bulky remains of the larger mammals, such as the proboscideans, bison, ground sloths, and titanotheres.
Mineral Sciences
During the year both the polished and thin-section collections of meteorites were photographed, and the task of assembling this material into albums was started. Because the meteorite collection previously had been stored in a non-air-conditioned area, protecting the specimens against corrosion due to humidity had always been a constant problem. The collection now is housed in a room with controlled 25 percent relative humidity and the polished specimens are much more stable. Some of the specimens most susceptible to corrosion have been sectioned and mounted in plastic. Others which proved difficult to preserve are housed in cabinets in which electric lights are burned continuously to further reduce the humidity.
Science and Technology
Considerable staff time in the division of physical sciences has been devoted to planning the move into the reference area in the new museum. Details of the actual move were handled by scientific instrument repairer C. KE. Dennison. Because of disruption of the old laboratory and incomplete equipment in the new one, most complex restoration work has been suspended. Scientific instrument repairer C. G. Smith restored a beautiful antique quadrant, and experimented on new types of lacquer for preserving indefinitely the surface of restored instruments.
In the division of mechanical and civil engineering the transfer of offices and collections permitted a much more rational scheme of specimen storage; special shelving has made the reference collections more readily accessible for the staff as well as for study by interested visitors. Every effort was directed also to the restoration of specimens scheduled for exhibition, particularly in the section of tools and of light machinery and horology. The National Air Museum facility at Silver Hill completed the restoration of the Pelton-Riedler pumping engine, and that of the large American diesel engine.
With the movement of the collections into the new building, the division of electricity now has a true reference area where the objects are easily available. Most of the items chosen for exhibition have

<<<Page: 74>>>

Technical laboratory, division of civil and mechanical engineering, provides facilities for repair and restoration of specimens such as antique machine tools and steam engines.
been renovated. Electronic equipment repairer Roy V. LaRoche made considerable progress in restoring television sets to operating condition, and museum technician Elhot Sivowitch completed the arduous task of cataloging the radio tubes from the Franklin Wingard collection.
In the division of medical sciences, museum technicians George Ford and Everett Jackson aided in the transfer of the medical, dental, and pharmaceutical collections and fixtures to the new museum. The operation was completed without a single instance of breakage or damage to the collections which are composed largely of fragile material and drug containers. In the division of transporation, three carriage restorations, the Bayly gig, Saltonstall buggy, and the Stillman landau, were completed.
Arts and Manufactures
The reference collections of the division of agriculture and forest products have been moved to the new museum. ‘The entire reference

<<<Page: 75>>>

collection has been consolidated, and the new storage units used for patent models afford better accessibility and added protection.
In the division of graphic arts, the Franklin press was dismantled, thoroughly cleaned, and reassembled preparatory to being placed on exhibition. The same procedure was followed with the Gordon-type job press, the linotype machines of 1884 and of 1920, the monotype caster and keyboard, and the Bruce typecasting machine. Reorganization of the hand-process prints continued; several hundred prints were covered with acetate sheets and about two hundred prints were matted. Museum technician Elhott Hawkins examined and reorganized the illustrations file and established a new motion picture section. Associate curator Eugene Ostroff, continued his long-range program of reviewing the entire collection. Special attention was given to the editing and preservation of photographs, the entire collection having been brought together in the air-conditioned storage facilities of the new offices.
Removal of the collections of manufactures and heavy industries from the Arts and Industries building and their rearrangement in the new museum was accomplished by museum technicians John C. Carter and Francis Gadson with a minimum of interruption to current work. Mr. Gadson skillfully restored and repaired items in the collections of this and other divisions of the department, while Mr. Carter maintained effective control over the material being assembled for five halls of greatly diverse character.
The division of textiles collections of more than 40,000 cataloged items were moved to their new location in the new museum, under the supervision of museum technician Everett Parker.
During this fiscal year, 205 items from the textile collections were successfully cleaned in the textile laboratory by Miss Maureen Collins. This work has been confined to the use of proved methods for cleaning undyed items of cotton and linen that are of a size that can be safely handled in the limited space available. Both nonionic detergent and a neutral soap have been used successfully with distilled water. Various methods of hand blocking have been perfected for finishing these textiles; a heated iron is never used. For articles of this limited size, the results have been excellent and the smoothed end product is far superior to the most carefully ironed one and with less chance of damage from the drying effects of the heated iron. The articles included lace, needlework, crochet, damask, and plain fabric in caps, edgings, handkerchiefs, bodices, sleeves, pockets, and so forth. The work of the textile laboratory included several items received from other divisions.
Screening is necessary to properly support fragile fabrics in the water solutions. The saran screening formerly used has been re

<<<Page: 76>>>

nnn!
Coverlet weaving is demonstrated in special exhibition hall to Washington, D.C., youth group.
placed by fiberglass screening, which, it was found, is more pliable, does not ravel, and is easier to handle than the saran. For one piece of Valenciennes edging so badly deteriorated that the screening did not offer sufficient support, the lace was stitched between layers of crepeline and then between layers of screening. The cleaning procedure could then be followed as usual. The lace having been cleaned,
the screening was removed and the crepeline left for ease in future handling.
Civil History
Museum technician Richard Muzzrole cleaned, renumbered, and recataloged the museum’s large collection of whaling irons, correlating specimens with data published in the descriptive catalog of the collections sent from the United States to the International Fisheries Exhibition in London in 1885. This well-documented collection has thus been revived to its original usefulness after being moribund for 80 years. Museum technician Jay Scott Odell carried on a continuing conservation program for the musical instrument collection in the new musical instruments laboratory, where installation of equipment has

<<<Page: 77>>>

commenced. Expert consultants called in to advise on restoration included Donald Warnock of Cambridge, Mass., for plucked strings; Charles Fisk of Gloucester, Mass., for pipe organs; and Robert Sheldon of Arlington, Va., for brass instruments.
The division of cultural history has been participating in the experimental use of the Termatrex system of data retrieval as applied to museum objects. The experiment, undertaken by means of an anonymous private foundation grant to the Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum, involved several participating institutions. It was inaugurated with an opening seminar at the Winterthur Museum, attended by curator C. Malcolm Watkins, who read a paper “Problems in Cataloguing Museum Objects.” The goals of this experiment are simplified and controlled recording of the collections, efficient locating of objects, and a vaster capability in extracting data concerning the collections.
The move of the civil history collections from the Arts and Industries building was carried out successfully and all the items in scattered and unsatisfactory storage areas were brought together in a more efficient, centralized area in the new museum. ‘The details of the move of the First Ladies materials are typical of the care and effort that was put into the movement of other materials. The most difficult task was moving the mannequins. Special carrying cases were planned and executed by associate curator Margaret B. Klapthor and the exhibits staff so that the mannequins could be moved without removing the dresses. The ingenious cases permitted the dressed mannequin to be lifted from the old exhibit case directly to the carrying case where it was carefully screwed to the bottom, and braced at the waist. The loaded case was then rolled to the loading platform, placed on a truck, and brought to the new building, where it was unloaded directly into the exhibition case. Moving the 38 mannequins into the new hall, which took four people about ten days, was accomplished without any damage to either the dresses or the mannequins.
Tests were conducted by the division of numismatics in cooperation with the Bureau of Standards in order to determine metallurgical details in connection with a platinum 50-cent piece dated 1814, a Russian 3-rouble piece, and two $5 gold pieces issued in 1849 by the Massachusetts and California Gold Company. X-ray radiographic and diffraction techniques were used, and the experiments were continued in the spectrochemical analysis section of the Bureau of Standards.
Through the cooperation of the Naval Research Laboratory, it was possible to conduct comparative analyses of an ancient quarter-shekel in silver, struck during the first year (A.D. 66/67) of the Jewish War against the Romans, and of a silver shekel struck during the third year

<<<Page: 78>>>

of the war. The composition of the quarter-shekel was found to be silver, with 2 to 3 percent copper and approximately 1 percent arsenic, according to X-ray fluorescence analysis. The shekel was made instead of practically pure silver, with 1 percent copper and no other elements present. The interpretation of the X-ray diffraction patterns allows some conclusions concerning the manufacture of the pieces, the quarter-shekel apparently being worked cold, while the shekel planchet was subject to a long annealing process with very little, if any, cold work. These analyses are of significance for a better knowledge of ancient metallurgical and striking techniques, and are being expanded in our own research laboratory.
Armed Forces History
Extensive progress was made in the restoration, renovation, and rearrangement of the collections, and repair of specimens designated for exhibit in the new museum was completed. Under the direction of museum specialist Donald E. Kloster, the military reference collections were moved into the new building.
The Continental gondola Philadelphia was installed on its permanent base, located appropriately adjacent to the halls of ordnance and underwater exploration. Grapeshot and other small objects were recovered from the gunboat’s mud-caked inner bottom during cleaning operations preparatory to the application of final preservatives. Exhibits specialist Howard P. Hoffman completed an exhaustive survey of the Philadelphia, preparing detailed plans from which will be constructed a rigged model representing this vessel as she appeared at the battle of Valcour Island. Meanwhile, periodic hygroscopic tests have been made to insure maintenance of satisfactory humidity conditions in the vicinity of the gunboat.
Museum aides John L. Rawls and Harold W. Ellis continued to organize by exhibit groups and refurbish specimens and graphic items in the naval collections pending their installation in the new hall of armed forces history. Substantial reorganization of the uniform storage and ship plans archives of the division of naval history was initiated following movement of the reference collections to new quarters.
Separation of the underwater collections from those of the division of naval history was completed, and the new facilities have permitted a more efficient and readily accessible arrangement of the materials. Preservation of the collection is carried on continuously, the new laboratory permitting a speed-up of these processes. Museum specialist Alan B. Albright adapted a completely successful routine for the use

<<<Page: 79>>>

of the heavier molecular weights of polyethylene glycol in the preservation of ancient, water-soaked wood, as follows:
After the object has been cleaned and towel-dried, the weight of the specimen is recorded. At this point, careful measurements of all of the important dimensions are made; to obtain critical measurements when the specimen is of awkward shape and/or precise measurements are difficult, several pins are inserted deep into the wood and the distance between them is measured. A second measurement, made when the preservation process is completed, will show any change. The wood is next submerged in 100 percent ethyl alcohol three or four times its volume (to prevent evaporation) and left there for at least three days, after which the wood is dried and reweighed, and the weight recorded. The above step is repeated several times, using new alcohol, until at least a 15 percent reduction in weight is obtained; a higher percent reduction, if possible, is desirable. The lowest weight recorded is the base from which wax absorption is calculated.
Next, a solution of polyethylene glycol 4000 and ethyl alcohol is prepared, in the ratio of 1:1 by weight, in a container of glass so that the level of the liquid can easily be seen and recorded. After the solution is thoroughly mixed and heated to 65°C., the object is placed in it and the container is put in a 65°C. electric oven. Sometimes it is necessary to submerge the wood with weights; if so, the weights are placed in an inconspicuous spot, for they often tend to discolor the wood. As the alcohol in the solution slowly evaporates, the polyethylene glycol content rises and the level of the liquid will show less and less change. After 20 or 30 days, all the alcohol will have evaporated and the remaining liquid should be 100 percent polyethylene glycol. At this point, several ounces of the solution are removed and allowed to cool in a shallow dish at room temperature; it should harden within an hour. If it does not, the wax is retested after a wait of several days. When it tests hard, the process is completed, but as a safety measure, a further wait of four or five additional days before removing the wood is advisable. When the object is removed from the solution, it is rinsed for 2 or 3 seconds in hot water, dried with a paper towel or lint-free cloth, and weighed. This final weight should represent an increase of at least 20 percent over the minimum weight recorded earlier. The sample is then placed in a dustfree area to cool.
Usual precautions against damage from insects, dust, rats, and rust are taken on a regular schedule.

<<<Page: 80>>>

Investigation and Research
Some of the research projects described below have been undertaken with the partial support of research grants from such Federal granting agencies as the National Science Foundation and the Office of Naval Research. <A detailed listing of these is published in the Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Dr. T. D. Stewart, director of the Museum of Natural History, accompanied by exhibits specialist, John C. Widener, went to Mexico City in mid-December 1963, the former to select examples of prehistoric filed and inlayed human teeth, and the latter to make moulds thereof. Mr. Widener will make casts from the moulds for an exhibit in the planned hall of physical anthropology.
Dr. Stewart, serving as a member of the Committee on Research and Exploration of the National Geographic Society, inspected the Wetherill Mesa archeological project in Mesa Verde National Park in late June, stopping off there on his way back from a second trip to Mexico City where he attended the 33rd annual meeting of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists.
At various times during the year Dr. I. EK. Wallen, assistant director for oceanography, visited institutions in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, California, and Hawaii in connection with the program of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center. Dr. Wallen also prepared several short papers dealing with developments in oceanography and the role of the Sorting Center.
Dr. H. Adair Fehlmann, supervisor of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, participated in Cruise 4B of the R/V Anton Bruun, of the International Indian Ocean Expedition, from early November to mid-December. This trip gave him a useful opportunity to study curatorial procedures on shipboard and to determine the need for a trained technician to oversee the handling of biological samples from the time of collection to the time the specimen cargo is consigned for shipment to the Sorting Center. Thanks to his recommendations, future collections should come through more intact and with better records. Dr. Fehlmann also had an opportunity to observe the techniques and equipment used in handling plankton in the Indian Ocean Biological Laboratory at Ernakulam, South India.

<<<Page: 81>>>

Anthropology
Chairman Waldo R. Wedel completed a study of the prehistory and aboriginal ecology of north-central Colorado in continuation of his researches on the archeology of the Plains. He also continued his account of the 1961-62 archeological-paleontological site near Littleton, Colo. His study of a prehistoric Wyoming bison kill assumed new interest in hght of recently determined radiocarbon dates which moved back some 2,000 years the date for the outstanding series of artifacts collected at the site.
Archeology.—Curator Clifford Evans and research associate Betty J. Meggers largely completed a major monograph on two phases in the prehistoric cultural development of coastal Ecuador. Inclusion cf 22 radio-carbon dates of shells and charcoal establishes the earlier phase (Valdivia) at 5150 to 3400 years ago.
Curator Richard B. Woodbury, who joined the division of archeology December 15, 1963, continued his studies of prehistoric water management in arid regions of the southwestern states and in Mexico. In this connection, he made two field trips to the Tehuacén Valley in southern Puebla, Mexico, to examine evidences of prehistoric irrigation and farming techniques. His conclusion that large scale irrigation there has been carried on for the past 2500 years makes this perhaps the longest record of irrigation in the New World.
Associate curator Gus Van Beek, in collaboration with Drs. Glen H. Cole and A. Jamme, completed a preliminary report on an archeological reconnaissance of Wadi Hadhramaut, South Arabia. Dr. Van Beek also spent more than a month in an archeological reconnaissance in Yemen at the invitation of the Yemen government. He discovered two new paleolithic sites and visited three previously known preIslamic sites.
Museum specialist George Metcalf continued his studies of a large collection of 11thand 14th-century archeological artifacts from central Nebraska. Radiocarbon dates supplied by the Smithsonian’s carbon dating laboratory are adding new significance to the project. Collaborator C. G. Holland continued to study the prehistory of southwestern Virginia as revealed by data and collections from 161 sites visited in 1963.
Ttesearch associate Neil M. Judd completed a monograph on archeological materials from Chaco Canyon, New Mexico. During the summer of 1963, research associate John M. Campbell carried out an archeological and ecological survey of the Koyukuk River drainage in northern Alaska, aided by a grant from the Arctic Institute of America, and continued preparation of a monograph on Nunamiut Kiskimo prehistory.

<<<Page: 82>>>

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH “all
El 2
== Chinese calligraphy is explained in new hall of cultures of Africa and Asia.
Ethnology.—Curator Saul H. Riesenberg completed a monograph on the aboriginal political organization of Ponape, Caroline Islands. In collaboration with Drs. Evans and Meggers, he has underway a study of the megalithic structures on the Nan Madol, Ponape, the site of a joint ethnological-archeological field program last year.
Associate curators Gordon Gibson and Eugene Knez were heavily involved throughout the year in research directed toward completion of the exhibit hall on the peoples of Asia and Africa. Dr. Gibson devoted a substantial part of this time to a search of the literature on Africa in an effort to identify accurately objects selected for exhibition. Dr. Knez completed most of the exhibit units on Asiatic cultures in the hall, which opened informally at the end of the year.
Associate curator William Crocker continued work on the Canela Indians in northeastern Brazil. He spent two weeks with the tribe in July 1963, and three months early in 1964. At year’s end he was again living among the Canelas.
Physical Anthropology.—Curator J. Lawrence Angel completed a manuscript on the anatomy of the hip joint; another on human skeletons associated with extinct animals at the Tranquiliity site in California; and assembled data for a paper on hyperostosis spongiosa to be included in a volume on paleopathology. He advanced his longterm program on the anthropology of chronic disease, involving restudy of students at Jefferson Medical College who had been studied

<<<Page: 83>>>

several years ago. Another aspect of this program is on aging, pathology, and mortality among prehistoric and ancient Greeks, Eskimos, and U.S. Whites. With his technical assistant Donald Ortner, Dr. Angel worked out a special blank which will permit rapid coding of data for computer analysis.
Associate curator Lucile E. Hoyme was in England at the beginning of the year, studying human skeletal collections and visiting laboratories of physical anthropology. Particular attention was given to a series of 19th-century skeletons of known name, age, and sex at St. Bride’s Church, Fleet Street, London. In December Dr. Hoyme received a Ph. D. degree from Oxford University, since which time she has continued her studies of skeletal variation and participated in the training of visiting scholars. Because of her radiological skills, she has been able to contribute to study and identification of anthropological and other materials in and outside the Smithsonian Institution.
Visiting investigators.—As in previous years, the collections and other resources of the department were extensively utilized in furthering their researches by many distinguished visitors and scientists, among whom were the following:
Archeology: Keith Anderson, National Park Service; Jose Juan Arrom, Michael D. Coe, Yale Univ.; Lewis Binford, Univ, of Chicago; Ripley Bullen, Florida State Museum; David Chase, Fort Benning Museum; Ray L. Cleveland, Johns Hopkins Uniy.; Joffre Coe, Musem of Archeology, Univ. of North Carolina ; Mitchell Dahood, S.J., Pontificial Biblical Institute; Sigfried De Laet, Univ. of Ghent; Rustem Duyuran, Director of Antiquities, Ankara, Turkey; Robert Ehrich, Brooklyn Univ.) wee huinrst Wmv California, Los Angeles; Patrick Gallagher, George Washington Uniy.; Gerard G. Gayot, Gorham State Teachers College; D. C. Geijskes, Stichting Surinaams Museum; Mrs. Gilliland, Univ. of Florida; Thor Heyerdahl, Kontiki Museum; Sister Inez Hilger, College of St. Benedict ; H. Irwin, Harvard Univ. ; Albert Jamme, W. F., The Catholic Univ. of America; Mr. and Mrs. Louis S. B. Leakey, Coryndon Memorial Museum; Olga Linares, Peabody Museum; Luis Lumbreras, Universidad de Huamanga, Ayacucho, Peru; Howard A. MacCord, Virgina State Library; Kaoru Omine, Ryukyu Cultural Properties Protection Commission; Alicia Dussan de Reichel, Universidad de los Andes, Bogota; Mario Sanoja, Universidad de los Andes, Merida, Venezuela; Carl Schuster Woodstock, N.Y.; Helen Schuster, Univ. of Washington; P. Schuyler-Miller, Pennsylvania Archeological Society; C. E. Snith, Agriculture Research Center, Beltsville; Paul H. Smith, Community Service Ine., Yellow Springs, Ohio; James Swauger, Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh; Kazuo Terada, Univ. of Tokyo; Hareld Tsai, Asia Foundation; A. Douglas Tushingham, Royal Ontario Museum; Howard Winters, Univ. of Virgina; George Williams, Duke Uniy.; Prescott H. Williams, Austin Theological Seminary ; Henry Wright, Uniy. of Michigan; Edwin N. Wilmsen, Univ. of Arizona.
Hthnology: Princess Pantip Chumbhot, Swan Pokk Palace, Bangkok; Philip Dark, Southern Illinois Univ.; William Fagg, British Museum, London; Marianne Forssell, Uppsala, Sweden; Julia Blena Fortin, Directora Nacional

<<<Page: 84>>>

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH We
This Koryo Dynasty (A.D. lent by Republic of Korea, and Asia.
744-993—64—_6
918-1392) Buddha, a national art treasure is featured in new hall of cultures of Africa

<<<Page: 85>>>

de Antropologia, La Paz, Bolivia; Richard A. Gard, Hong Kong; Shoji Hamada, Japanese Folkcraft Museum, Tokyo; Seiko Hokama, Ryukyu Museum, Naha, Okinawa; Kunio Kagayama, Tokyo; H. H. Assrate Kassa, President of the Ethiopian Senate; Jin Gue Kim, Seoul; Gerd Koch, Museum ftir Volkerkunde, Berlin; Stela Kramrisch, Univ. of Pennsylvania; Frederica de Laguna, Bryn Mawr College; Prince Regent Dhani Nivat, National Thai Cultural Commission, Bangkok; Grga Novak, Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts, Zagreb; Kaoru Omine, Ryukyu Cultural Properties Protection Committee, Naha, Okinawa; Prince Tungi, Crown Prince of Tonga; Allen Wardwell, Art Institute of Chicago ; Lt. General and Mrs. Raymond A. Wheeler, S. E. Asian Mekong River Project ; Hyum Mok Yoo, Seoul.
Physical Anthropology: John H. Adams, Milton Linthicum, R. O. Peach, and James EH. Tyler, Jr., Baltimore; Harry Alpert, Univ. of Oregon; Paul T. Baker and Frank Saul, Pennsylvania State Univ.; B. E. and M. Baldwin, and Jack Campbell, George Washington Univ.; R. E. Blackwelder, Southern Illinois Univ. ; Ernesto G. Brion and Conrado Y. Dimatulac, National Bureau of Investigation, Manila; Naney Cameron, Univ. of Toronto; Clyde Carter, Mary Washington College; William D. Colley, E. R. Kerley, and Charles J. Stahl, III, Armed Forces Institute of Patholegy; M Couperus, Loma Linda Univ., California; H. G. Deignan, Lausanne; Josef Biegert, Univ. of Zurich; Sigfried De Laet, Ghent Univ.; Tilly Edinger, Museum of Comparative Zoology; Robert W. Ebrich, Brooklyn College; George E. Erikson, Harvard Medical School; Corinne Farrell, Univ. of Pennsylvania Pathology Department; S. M. Garn, Fels Research Institute; Santiago Genovés, Univ. of Mexico; C. W. Goff, Hartford; M. 8S. Goldstein and James E. Hamner, National Institutes of Health; J. Harrington, National Park Service; C. G. Holland, Charlottesville; G. H. Karplus, Institute of Forensic Medicine, Jaffa, Israel; Bryon H. Kern, Univ of Pennsylvania; Mansfield Lonie, National Bureau of Standards; William 8. Laughlin, Univ of Wisconsin; H. A. MacCord, Richmond; Donald Marshall, U.S. Army; H. J. Mehta, Western Reserve Uniy.; Ashley Montagu, Princeton; J. H. Naud, Univ. of Pittsburgh Medical Center; Georg Neumann, Univ. of Indiana; Russell W. Newman, U.S. Army Laboratories, Natick; J. D. Niswander, National Institute of Dental Health; Lawrence Oschinsky, Univ. of Toronto; Sister Puyo, Univ. of St. Louis; Samuel Rabkin, Winter Park, Fla.; L. R. Setty, Howard Uniy.; Ronald Singer, Univ. of Chicago; Alan Smith, National Science Foundation; William C. Tobin, Washington, D.C.; Christy Turner, Univ. of Wisconsin; Antonio J. Waring, Savannah, Ga.: Dr. Whiteford N. Walensky, Georgetown Univ. Medical School; J. 8. Weiner, London School of Hygiene; Hsi-mei Yang, Institute of History and Philology, Taiwan.
Zoology
Chairman Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., studied the freshwater decapod crustaceans on the island of Dominica, West Indies, as a participant in the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of that island. He has continued his investigations of crayfish; he has made substantial progress on a revision of some of the Mexican and Cuban ostracods; and he completed a manuscript on new entocytherids from Virginia.
Senior scientist Fenner A. Chace, Jr., completed a study on one species of shrimp in the northeastern Pacific. He also largely com

<<<Page: 86>>>

pleted a report on the decapod crustaceans of St. Helena in the South Atlantic.
Mammals.—Curator David H. Johnson, although responsible for the general development of exhibits in the newly opened hall of osteology, found time to study the distribution of hares and certain species of bats in southeastern Asia, and to continue his general survey of the mammals of that area.
Direction of the field parties collecting specimens of mammals and their ectoparasites in Iran and southern Africa occupied much of the time of associate curator Henry W. Setzer; this field program is carried on with the cooperation of the Army Medical Research and Development Command. Dr. Setzer joined the African party in September; from late October to mid-December he directed the field operations in Iran. He worked in the museum collections identifying mammals of Kgypt and the Sudan collected by a Naval Research Unit.
Associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., continued his monographic research of the bat genus Artibeus by a study trip to the Universities of Kansas and New Mexico, and to Texas AGM University.
In newly opened hall of osteology, differences in skeletal structures and
postures of man and manlike apes are related to their specialized ways of life.

<<<Page: 87>>>

At the First International Symposium on Cetacean Research he presented a paper embodying some of his research toward a monograph on the pigmy sperm whales. From January to March he collected mammals, especially bats, in the high mountain region of Darién, Panama, at the boundary with Colombia. Among the many valuable collections were two species of bats new to Panama, as well as rare marsupials, shrews, and rodents.
Research associate Robert A. Traub of the University of Maryland School of Medicine collected vertebrates and their ectoparasites in Pakistan in continuation of his studies of rickettsial infections.
Birds.—The Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program, under the direction of curator Philip S. Humphrey, has increased greatly in scope since its inception in October 1962. It is chiefly concerned with the distribution, migrations, and ecology of central Pacific sea birds. Collaborative relationships have been developed with the U.S. Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, the State of Hawaii Division of Fish and Game, and others. Many members of the field staff in this program are graduate students gathering data for doctoral dissertations.
The Rockefeller Foundation provided support for a field study enabling Dr. Humphrey to work with the Belém Virus Laboratory, Fundacao Servico Especial de Satide Publica, and the Museu Paraense “Emilio Goeldi,” Belém, Brazil. This cooperative field study deals with the relationship of birds and arthropod-borne virus diseases. Dr. Humphrey continued his studies of plumage succession in birds and on the distribution, ecology, and classification of Patagonian and Brazilian birds.
Associate curator George E. Watson completed his dissertation on the ecology and evolution of passerine birds on the islands of the Aegean Sea, and received from Yale University a Ph. D. degree in June. He was on loan to the Office of the Secretary of Defense as official United States observer on the Chilean-Antarctic Commission Expedition, 1963-64. His main purpose on the expedition was to gather specimens and to make photographs for use in preparing an identification guide to Antarctic birds. He visited Nelson, Robert, Greenwich, and Deception Islands in the South Shetland group, and localities on the Antarctic Peninsula and near Anvers Island. The last two weeks of December were spent in the forested lake region of Llanquihue Province, Chile, and he collected specimens farther south, near Punta Arenas and on Navarino Island.
Associate curator Richard L. Zusi, who joined the staff September 3, 1963, undertook research on the collections of the Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan, in November and consulted with Dr. R. W. Storer concerning their joint research project on the myology of

<<<Page: 88>>>

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH a7
Structural similarities of birds that are underwater swimmers are compared and explained in this osteology exhibit.
grebes. From January to April, Dr. Zusi was in Dominica as a participant in the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of that island.
Professor D. S. Rabor of Silliman University, Philippine Islands, was appointed honorary research associate in September 1963. Prof. Rabor is continuing research on the ornithology of the Philippine Islands. Dr. Robert W. Ficken of the University of Maryland, also a new honorary research associate, is engaged in extensive field and laboratory research on the behavior of wood warblers.
In continuation of his field work on the bird life of the Isthmus of Panama, research associate Alexander Wetmore concentrated his efforts during January through March in Darién Province, mainly in the heavy rain forest adjacent to the Colombian boundary. The results were most successful, for specimens were obtained and observations made on species that have been little known in the Republic, and several new records of South American birds not previously known from Panama were established.
Research associate Herbert G. Deignan studied at the Museum from mid-January to late April, concentrating his efforts on the NAMRU collections of birds from Formosa and specimens collected in Viet Nam and Cambodia by Bernard Feinstein, former museum specialist in the division.

<<<Page: 89>>>

Research associate Herbert Friedmann continued his work on brood parasitism and completed a manuscript dealing with evolutionary trends in the avian genus Clamator.
Reptiles and amphibians.—With the collaboration of Dr. C. J. Goin, work on the bulletin on Colombian frogs by curator Doris M. Cochran has progressed rapidly and should be completed during the next fiscal year.
Fishes.—Curator Leonard P. Schultz has continued his studies of the frogfishes and is actively engaged in the direction of a research program on sharks. Mrs. Marilyn H. Malin, research assistant, is maintaining an up-to-date documented file of shark attacks throughout the world, a project partially supported by the Office of Naval Research. Dr. Schultz’s manuscript, “The Family Sternoptychidae,” is being published by the Sears Foundation in volume 4 of “Fishes of the Western North Atlantic.”
Associate curator Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., has continued his research on the comparative anatomy and systematics of tunas and of the family Scombridae, on the systematic and ecology of stomiatoid fishes, the systematics of the western Atlantic flying fishes, the distribution of surface fishes from the vicinity of the Gulf Stream, and the systematics of the subgenus Cyprinella of Notropis. During the past year, Dr. Gibbs participated in Cruise 3 of the International Indian Ocean Expedition and studied in laboratories in Europe and Asia from August to December. Purpose of the cruise was to sample deep-sea ichthyofauna of the western Indian Ocean and to relate the distributions of species and biomass to the physiochemical and biological properties of the water masses sampled in a north-south transect.
Associate curator Ernest A. Lachner participated in Cruise 4B of the R/V Anton Bruun, purpose of which was to evaluate the relative distribution and abundance of benthic organisms inhabiting the continental shelf and upper slope of the Arabian Sea. Enroute to the Indian Ocean and return, Dr. Lachner examined specimens and arranged for the loan and exchange of collections in Europe, Israel, India, Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, and at Stanford University, California. While in Australia, Dr. Lachner revised his manuscripts on the Gobiidae and Eleotridae and also expanded his study of the diskfishes. In cooperation with Mr. Robert Jenkins, graduate student, Cornell University, Dr. Lachner has undertaken a study of the systematics of the American barbeled minnows. They visited the Virginia Polytechnic Institute in March and prepared more than 5,000 specimens of fishes for exchange with the U.S. National Museum.
Associate curator Victor G. Springer has expanded his studies on sharks, completing revisions of three genera. During the year, he visited Stanford University and the British and Paris Museums where

<<<Page: 90>>>

he studied blennioid fish types and other specimens, bringing close to completion a revision of the genus Hntomacrodus. He has begun an osteological study of blennioid fishes and has accumulated data and material for revisions of several genera.
Associate curator William R. Taylor continued his study of the families Ariidae and Aspredinidae for the publication, “Fishes of the Western North Atlantic,” and of the genus Votwrus. He has developed new techniques in the preparation of specimens for osteological study that involve the use of solutions of the enzyme trypsin buffered with sodium borate. This treatment, which removes the muscle tissue, has proved to be effective in making both preserved and fresh specimens translucent—the connective tissue, cartilage, bones, viscera, and major nerves remaining.
Associate curator Stanley H. Weitzman completed a study of two genera of Asiatic minnows, three manuscripts dealing with South American catfishes, and a study of the osteology and relationships of the characid subfamilies Lebiasininae and Erythrininae. He began esteological studies on the isospondylous oceanic fishes of two other families of fishes (Astronesthidae and Gonostomatidae).
Gray-whale skeleton hangs above case of even-toed ungulates (artiodactyls) in hall of osteology.

<<<Page: 91>>>

X & A > or ' : _
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., chairman of department of zoology, inspects a recently acquired fresh-water shrimp, Macrobrachium carcinus from Dominica. A specimen of Penaeus brasiliensis offers a_ size comparison.
Research associate J. A. F. Garrick returned to Victoria University, Wellington, New Zealand in November and is continuing his world revision of carcharhinid sharks. During May 1964 he visited Australia to study specimens of sharks that were not available in museums of Kurope, America, or Africa. When completed, this critical revision of carcharhinid sharks will be the first ever attempted.
Marine Invertebrates.—Curator Donald F. Squires continued his investigations on southern ocean corals. Considerable progress has been made in this study, supported by the National Science Foundation, and facilitated by the assistance of Mr. Ian W. Keyes, senior paleontological technician, New Zealand Geological Survey, who worked as research assistant to Dr. Squires during the year. Much of the preliminary compilation of data for a study of the evolution and

<<<Page: 92>>>

distribution of New Zealand Tertiary and modern corals has been completed. In joint authorship, they have finished a review of the corals of the New Zealand shelf. During the year, a study of the biomechanics of the scleractinian coral J/anicina areolata was completed, as were several other studies of fossil and Recent corals. Continued progress was made on the monographic studies of the deep-water corals of the family Micrabaciidae and on the complex group of species comprising the “lacerate Flabellum.” From December to February, Dr. Squires was a participant on the New Zealand Oceanographic Institute cruise “Macquarie Gap” which made geological and biological studies in the area of the Campbell Plateau and the Subantarctic Islands of New Zealand. Visits were also made during the year to the Museum of Comparative Zoology and the American Museum of Natural History where types were examined and from which specimens of deep-water corals were obtained for further study.
Associate curator Thomas EK. Bowman completed an account of an arostrate population of the planktonic calanoid copepod Acartia lilljeborgii, from St. Lucia, West Indies. He described a new genus and species of cirolanid isopod from Madison Cave, Va., the first troglodytic cirolanid to be found in the United States outside of Texas; completed the description of a new anthurid isopod from the Caguanes Caves of Cuba; and described a new mysid crustacean, abundant in Lake Pontchartrain, La. With L. J. Lancaster, he prepared a description of a bloom of the planktonic blue-green alga Skujaella, from the Tonga Islands. Work was begun on an account of pelagic amphipods of the family Hyperiidae from the northeastern Pacific.
Associate curator Charles EK. Cutress, Jr., continued his studies of several families of anemones. During most of April and May, he collected marine materials in Hawaii and coastal California, for documenting future exhibits in the museum. He was accompanied by Mr. Kjell Sandved who acted as official photographer. Following this trip, Mr. Cutress visited the Friday Harbor Laboratory of the University of Washington where he engaged in studies to clarify the taxonomy of the swimming anemones Stomphia.
Associate curator Raymond B. Manning, who had joined the staff of the division in June 1963, in September studied stomatopod crustacean specimens in the American Museum of Natural History, the Vanderbilt Marine Museum on Long Island, the Museum of Comparative Zoology, the Yale Peabody Museum, and the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. In May 1964, Dr. Manning joined a research team from the Institute of Marine Science, University of Miami, for a 20-day offshore scientific cruise in the Gulf of Guinea. Following the cruise he spent several days collecting inshore marine invertebrates near Dakar, Senegal, before visiting natural history museums in Paris,

<<<Page: 93>>>

Leiden, and London to study types of stomatopod crustaceans. During the year, Dr. Manning finished most of a manuscript revising the stomatopods of the western Atlantic, collaborated with L. B. Holthuis of the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, in Leiden, on a contribution on the stomatopods for the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontology,’ and completed two additional manuscripts dealing with these animals.
Associate curator Marian H. Pettibone carried on preliminary work with a large collection of polychaete worms from the Canadian Arctic, collected by E. H. Grainger. She continued her long-range study of the polychaete worms from the Gulf of St. Lawrence to the Chesapeake Bay, completed a revision of the polychaete family Pilargidae, including a description of three new species from Virginia, and conducted further work on the Paraonidae, including the preparation of descriptions of two new species from Virginia and Florida.
Museum specialist Henry B. Roberts continued his research on Recent and fossil crabs. In addition to studying a new species of crab from the Miocene of Virginia, he completed a description of a new genus of Cretaceous crab, and has compiled a checklist and bibliography of the Pleistocene decapods of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plain.
Research associate Waldo L. Schmitt continued his studies on the American commensal crabs, family Pinnotheridae, and completed the revision and updating of a popular account of the “Crustaceans” prepared several decades ago for the original Smithsonian Scientific Series. As an associate editor for biology for the Antarctic Research Series, sponsored by the American Geophysical Union, he has been encouraging systematists to undertake monographic reports to be followed by handbooks dealing with the invertebrate marine fauna of Antarctica.
David L. Pawson joined the staff as associate curator of marine invertebrates May 20, 1964. His field of special interest is echinoderms, in particular the echinoids and holothuroids of the subAntarctic.
Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder continued work on a study of the marine mollusks of Polynesia. He sorted and arranged the material he gathered in Tahiti last year, identified and studied specimens from Tonga and Hawaii, and initiated a bibliography of Polyhesian marine malacolegy. Notable progress was made on his monograph of the Harpidae and on a study of certain species of the family Volutidae.
Associate curator Joseph P. E. Morrison has continued his research of the brackish water mollusks of New Caledonia, studying collections of the family Melampidae in the Academy of Natural Sciences of

<<<Page: 94>>>

= * e « ~ ° . ~~ ° >° * . . ca * >° --
Specimens recently received from International Indian Ocean Expedition being measured by associate curator Joseph Rosewater for his revision of family Tridacnidae.
Philadelphia, and a collection gathered by him in 1960-61. His work on the brackish water mollusks of the Gulf States was continued, and he completed a manuscript describing new species of the families Hydrobidae, Pyramidellidae, and Mactridae, from Louisiana.
Associate curator Joseph Rosewater spent three months as a participant in the International Indian Ocean Expedition Auxiliary Cruise “A” aboard the R/V Ze Vega. A large collection of mollusks was made from the shores of western Malaysia and Thailand and from the Mentawai Islands southwest of Sumatra, Indonesia. A brief visit was also made to the British Museum (Natural History) where he studied types of the family Littormidae. He is continuing studies of Indo-Pacific mollusks, especially the families Littorinidae and Tridacnidae; a monograph of the latter is nearly complete. A taxonomic study of the subfamily Periplomatinae has also been initiated.
Visiting investigators.—Among visiting scientists who studied the zoology research collections during the year were:
Mammals: Sydney Anderson, American Museum of Natural History; Beatrice Dulié, Zoological Institute, Zagreb; Francis C. Fraser, British Museum (Natural History), London; E. Raymond Hall, Univ. of Kansas; Philip Hershkovitz and Joseph C. Moore, Chicago Natural History Museum; Robert S. Hoffman, Uniy. of Montana ; Donald F. Hoffmeister, Charles A. Long, Uniy. of Illinois; Russell E. Mumford, Purdue Uniy.; Juhani Ojasti, Universidad Central de Venezuela, Caracas; David R. Swindler, Medical College of South Carolina; John A. White, Uniy. of California ; Pyong-Heci Won, Tong Kook Uniy., Seoul.

<<<Page: 95>>>

Birds: Reay H. N. Smithers, National Museum of Southern Rhodesia; Stephen M. Russell, Louisiana State Univ., New Orleans; Burt L. Monroe and Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Warter,. Louisiana State Univ., Baton Rouge; Dr. Herbert Friedmann, Los Angeles County Museum; James H. Meysilles, Hanover, Ind. ; M. A. Carriker, Jr., Colombia; Dr. D. S. Farner, Washington State College; Dr. R. W. Storer, Univ. of Michigan; Dr. Clarence Cottam, Welder Wildlife Foundation, Sinton, Tex.; Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Canal Zone Biological Area, Balboa; Paul Peterson, Univ. cf Nebraska; Dr. Douglas Lancaster, Dr. Leigh Van Valen, and Dr. Charles Vaurie, American Museum of Natural History ; Don Baldwin, Royal Ontario Museum; Herbert G. Deignan, Pully, Switzerland; Dr. Robert W. Dickerman, Monrovia, Calif.; Dr. Joe T. Marshall, Jr., Univ. of Arizona; Frangois Vuilleumier, Museum of Comparative Zoology: Mrs. Delwyn G. Berrett, Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho; Dr. H. Morioka, Univ. of Illinois; Dr. Kenneth C. Parkes, Carnegie Museum; Dr. J. W. Hardy, Moore Laboratory of Zoology, Occidental College; Dr. Pierce Brodkorb, Univ. of Florida; Dr. W. J. L. Sladen, Johns Hopkins Univ.; Max C. Thompson, Univ. of Maryland; Mrs. Anne LaSassier, Midland, Tex.
Fishes: Abdul Hakim A. Al-Rawi, Univ. of Oklahoma; W. D. Anderson, Jr., F. H. Berry, Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and John K Thompson, Bureau of Commercial Fisheries ; Clyde D. Barbour, John 8. Ramsey, and Royal D. Suttkus, Tulane Univ.; Richard H. Backus and Frank Mather III, Woods Hole Oceanographie Institution; L. F. de Beaufort, Amsterdam Museum; Adam Ben-Tuvia, Sea Fish Research Station, Haifa, israel; David K. Caldwell and Melba C. Caldwell, Los Angeles County Museum; HE. J. Crossman, Royal Ontario Museum, Canada; William P. Davis, William N. Eschmeyer, John M. Green, Albert C. James, and C. Richard Robins, Uniy. of Miami; Humphry Greenwood, Norman B. Marshall, and Hthelwyn Trewavas, British Museum (Natural History) ; Marion Grey and Loren P. Woods, Chicago Natural History Museum; Joel D. Hubbard, Univ. of Wisconsin; Carl L. Hubbs, Laura C. Hubbs, and Richard Rosenblatt, Scripps Institution of Oceanography; Amin Jarur M., Univ. de Guerrero, Mexico; Duvall A. Jones, Univ. of Florida, Gainesville; S. Jones, Central Marine Fisheries Res. Inst., Mandapam Camp, India; Ralph Kirkpatrick, Oklahoma State Univ., Stillwater; William H. Krueger, Boston Univ.; Harrison Matthews, Zoological Society of London; G. E. Maul, Madeira; Robert R. Miller, Univ. of Michigan; Dr. Max Poll, Museum of Central Africa, Tervuren, Belgium; Richard T. Reppert, Univ. of Maryland; Edward C. Raney, Timothey W. Robbins, Chu-Fa Tsai, and Timothy Zorach, Cornell Univ.; Chote Suvatti, Kasetsart Uniy., Bangkok ; Enrico Tortonese, Museum Natural History, Genoa, Italy; V. D. Vladykov, Univ. of Ottawa; Raul Vaz Ferreira and Blanca Sierra de Soriane, Facultad de Humanidades y Ciencias, Montevideo; N. J. Wilimovsky, Univ. of British Columbia ; James P. Williams, Univ. of Alabama.
Reptiles and Amphibians: W. BE. Duellman and E. H. Taylor, Univ. of Kansas; Carl Gans, Univ. of Buffalo; A. Hoge, Instituto Butantan Sao Paulo; R. F. Inger, Chicago Natural History Museum; W. G. Lynn, Catholic Univ.; T. S. Parsons, Uniy. of Toronto; H. W. Parker, British Museum (Natural History) ; B. OrejasMiranda, Museo Nacional de Argentina; O. Reig, Univ. of Buenos Aires; W. Steyn, Nat. Museum South West Africa; W. A. Thornton, Univ. of Illinois; G. I’. de Witte, Institute Royale Science Nationale de Belgique, Brussels.
Marine Invertebrates: Isabel Perez-Farfante-Canet, Washington, D.C.; M. J. Cerame-Vivas, Duke Univ. Marine Laboratory; Robert L. Cory, U.S. Geological Survey; Roger F. Cressey, Boston Uniy.; Elizabeth Deichmann, Museum of Comparative Zoology; Angela Edwards, British Museum (Natural History) ; J. Forest, Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris; Olga Hartman, Allan Hancock

<<<Page: 96>>>

Foundation; L. B. Holthuis, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Histoire, Leiden; Meredith L. Jones, American Museum of Natural History; MacKenzie Keith, Pennsylvania State Univ.; J. Laborel, Instituto Oceanografico, Recife, Brazil; William H. McCaul, Hastern Illinois Univ.; D. C. Miller, Queens College, New York; Elizabeth Pope, The Australian Museum, Sydney; Patricia M. Ralph, Victoria Univ., Wellington ; Mary Rice, Univ. of Washington; Alfred HE. Smalley, Tulane Univ.; Nasima Tirmizi, Univ. of Karachi; Marvin L. Wass, Virginia Institute of Marine Science; Austin B. Williams, Institute of Fisheries Research, Univ. of North Carolina.
Mollusks: Argentino A. Bonetto, Santa Fe, Argentina; H. Alison Kay, Univ. of Hawaii; Ian McTaggart Cowan, Univ. of British Columbia ; Hugene EH. Binder, Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle, Geneva, Switzerland ; Henning Lemche, Zoologisch Museum, Copenhagen; Vera Fretter, the University, Reading, England; M. J. Klappenbach, Museo Nacional de Historia Natural, Montevideo; H. B. Stenzel, Houston, Tex.; Battus Oostburg, Paramaribo, Surinam; Allyn G. Smith and Charles B. Stasek, California Academy of Sciences; Alan Solem, Chicago Natural History Museum.
Entomology
On July 1, 1963, the division of insects was separated from the department of zoology and became the department of entomology. The five divisions in the department are: Neuropteroids, Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, Myriapoda and Arachnida, and Hemiptera.
Chairman J. F. Gates Clarke conducted intensive field studies of Microlepidoptera on the island of Rapa in French Polynesia from September 1 to December 15. In addition to providing a basis for a better understanding of Micronesian Microlepidoptera, it was hoped that the collections would indicate substantial relationship to these insects in New Zealand, southern South America, and South Africa. The food plants of more than half of the approximately 75 species collected were determined, and Mrs. Clarke reared in the field 760 specimens, of which the immature stages were preserved for study.
Dr. Clarke continued his studies of several genera and families of Neotropical Microlepidoptera and preparation has continued of materials which will be used for critical studies of Micronesian Lepidoptera—a long-range project.
Lepidoptera.—Associate curator Donald R. Davis continued his studies of the Western Hemisphere bagworms (Psychidae) ; his revision of the group was published. Dr. Davis has also completed a revision, employing statistical analyses, of the Yucca moths (Prodoxidae) of the Western Hemisphere. During July and August he, with Dr. Duckworth, engaged in field research on the latter group. In preparation for revisionary studies of two insect families, Dr. Davis studied the collection at the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh, and the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.

<<<Page: 97>>>

Associate curator W. Donald Duckworth advanced toward his goal of a world monograph of the family Stenomidae with the publication of one paper on a new Brazilian moth species and the preparation of three other papers. In the Neotropical area alone are more than 1100 species of this large family whose taxonomy, evolution, and geoeraphic affinities interest Dr. Duckworth. In the course of his studies of the family with respect to these subjects, types from Vienna and Munich, as well as many others which are more accessible, are being or have been examined; field study was undertaken jointly with Dr. Davis to northeastern Mexico, where important distributional data were gathered; and in April and May Stenomidae were studied and collected in the Panama Canal Zone.
William D. Field, associate curator, continued his revision of the butterfly genus Vanessa and of the lycaenid genus Calycopis. In July he gathered significant distributional data and specimens in the mountains of New England.
Coleoptera.—Curator O. L. Cartwright was in London at the end of the year to study type specimens at the British Museum (Natural History) in connection with his continuing research on the scarab beetles of the Bahamas and of Micronesia.
Water beetles of the Neotropics continue as associate curator Paul J. Spangler’s special interest. In July and August he spent seven weeks in Mexico and the Southwestern States collecting valuable materials for his studies. In the area of Mexico where the Nearctic and Neotropical faunas are contiguous and intermingled, most collections are useful for evaluating the effects of this overlapping; it is significant to note that here Dr. Spangler recorded six genera for the first time for Mexico and at least twenty species new to science. Previously unknown data with respect to the immature forms of most species collected were obtained, and many individuals of the rare semiaquatic beetle family Georyssidae were taken. He has also continued his research on the adult and immature stages of the water beetles of Puerto Rico and with Mr. Hugh Leech, California Academy of Sciences, he is engaged in a joint revision of the genus Hydrochara. Dr. Spangler also contributed significantly to the collections by his use of a battery of Berlese Funnels, which permit the operator to collect minute insects from decaying leaves. More than 38,000 insects were obtained by use of this apparatus by Dr. Spangler and in the Protura alone, the national collections were nearly tripled during the past year.
Myriapoda and Arachnida.—Curator Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., concentrated most of his attention on a general revision of the order Geophilomorpha, his study of the chilopod faunae of New Zealand and Australia has progressed, and he is presently reviewing generic and familial delimitations, which is possible only after thorough study

<<<Page: 98>>>

of type species. To accomplish this end he has visited insect collections at Harvard University, in Munich, and in London.
Neuropteroids.—The caddis flies (Trichoptera) continued to attract the research attention of associate curator Oliver S. Flint, Jr., and he published or completed several papers on Nearctic members of the group. Dr. Flint has begun to devote increasingly large parts of his research to the Neotropical Trichoptera and two papers on species of this region were published or completed this year. At the beginning of the year Dr. Flint collected and studied in the field on Jamaica, Dominica, St. Lucia, and Grenada; the first collections of Trichoptera in the Lesser Antilles resulted from this trip. From April through June he spent in field studies on Dominica as a participant in the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of that island.
Hemiptera.—Dr. Richard C. Froeschner joined the staff as associate curator in charge of Hemiptera on August 26, 1963.
Visiting investigators.—Among visiting scientists who studied the entomology research collections during the year were:
Coleoptera: Dr. Ross Arnett, Brother Bernardine, Mr. Lee Herman, Mr. John P. MacNamara, Rev. Michael I. Morgan, OSB, and Miss Hileen Van Tassell, Catholic Univ., Washington, D.C.; Dr. William F. Barr, Univ. of Idaho; Dr. Pierre Basilewsky, Musée Royal du Congo Belge, Tervuren, Belgium; Dr. Richard S. Beal, Arizona State College; Mrs. O. F. Bodenstein, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture ; Dr. Candido Bolivar y Pieltain, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Mexico; Mr. John C. Boyd and Dr. J. L. Gressitt, Bernice P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu; Dr. Dale F. Bray and Dr. W. A. Connell, Univ. of Delaware; Dr. Per Brinck, Zoologiska Institution, Lunds Universitets, Lund, Sweden; Dr. W. J. Brown and Dr. Henry F. Howden, Canada Dept. of Agriculture; Mr. J. A. Bullock, Univ. of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaya; Dr. John A. Chemsak, Mr. John Lawrence, and Dr. Ray Smith, Univ. of California, Berkeley ; Dr. H. L. Clark, Howard Univ., Washington, D.C.; Dr. Edward I. Coher, Waltham, Mass.; Dr. T. P. Copeland, East Tennessee State College, Johnson City; Mr. Herbert Dozier and Mrs. Mary G. Wetzel, Univ. of Maryland; Mr. John Fales and Mr. Horace Lancaster, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Beltsville, Md.; Dr. Eugene J. Gerberg, Insect Control & Research, Inec., Baltimore; Dr. Lester P. Gibson, Central States Forest Experimental Station, Forest Service, USDA, Columbus; Mr. John D. Glaser, Baltimore; Mr. Michael A. Goodrich, Frear Laboratory, Pennsylvania State Univ.; Dr. Robert C. Graves, Carthage College, Kenosha, Wis.; Mr. R. C. Hansell, Oregon State Uniy.; Dr. George R. Hopping, Forest Entomology & Pathology Lab., Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Dr. David G. Kissinger, Atlantic Union College, South Lancaster, Mass.; Mr. M. C. Lane, Tacoma, Wash. : Mr. James D. Marshall, Dept. of Entomology, Cornell Univ.; Mr. Findley B. Negley, Pennsylvania Dept. of Agriculture, Harrisburg; Dr. L. D. Newsom, Louisiana State Univ. & Agricultural & Mechanical College, Baton Rouge; Mr. W. H. Nutting, Oakland, Calif.; Mr. Virgil H. Owens, Missouri Dept. of Agriculture, Kennett; Dr. R. M. A. Paulian, Institut de Recherche Scientific de Madagasear, Tananarive, Tsimbazaza, Madagascar; Dr. fH. Avery Richmond, Moorestown, N.J.; Dr. Jerome G. Rozen, Jr., Mrs. Patricia Vaurie, American Museum of Natural History, New York, N.Y.; Mr. Norman L. Rumpp, China Lake, Calif. ; Dr. W. E. Simonds, California Dept. of Agriculture, Sacramento; Dr. John B.

<<<Page: 99>>>

Simone, Syracuse Univ.; Dr. H. F. Strohecker, University of Miami, Miami, Fla. ; Dr. Walter R. Suter, Carthage College, Kenosha, Wis.; Dr. Vasco M. Tanner, Brigham Young University, Provo; Dr. J. G. Watts, New Mexico State Univ. ; Mr. Charles E. White, Indianapolis; Dr. John A. Wilcox, New York State Museum & Scienee Service, Albany; Dr. Elwood C. Zimmerman, Peterborough, N.H.
Hemiptera: Dr. Dale Jackson, Akron Univ., Ohio; Dr. Paul D. Hurd, Jr., Univ. of California; Mr. C. D. F. Miller, Dr. Leonard A. Kelton, Dr. H. E. Milliron, and Dr. Lois K. Smith, Entomology Research Institute, Canada Dept. of Agriculture; Dr. B. Miczulski, College of Agriculture, Lublin, Poland; Dr. James A. Slater, Univ. of Connecticut; Dr. Lubomir Masner, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Prague; Dr. George E. Bohart, Bee Culture Laboratory, Utah State Uniy.; Mr. Gerd Heinrich, Dryden, Maine; Dr. George C. Hickwort, Dr. H. K. Townes, Mrs. Marjorie Townes, Mrs. Sigeko Momoi, and Dr. Setsuya Momoi, Museum of Zoology, Univ. of Michigan; Dr. C. W. McComb, Univ. of Maryland; Mr. Frank Kurezewski, Cornell Univ.; Dr. J. G. Rozen, Jr., American Museum of Natural History, New York, N.Y.; Dr. T. B. Mitchell, North Carolina State College, Raleigh; Dr. W. F. Buren, National Institute of Health, Bethesda; Dr. F. J. D. McDonald, Univ. of Alberta; Dr. A. C. Cole, Univ. of Tennessee, Knoxville; Dr. R. D. Shenefelt, Univ. of Wisconsin; Dr. R. E. Gregg, Univ. of Colorado; Dr. Frank W. Mead, Florida Depart. of Agriculture, Gainesville; Dr. Abram Willink, Instituto Miguel Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina; Dr. David E. Leonard, Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station, New Haven; Dr. M. MacKauer and Dr. M. Capek, Entomology Research Institute for Biological Control, Belleville, Canada ; Dr. A. de Barros Machado, Museu de Dundo, Lunda, Angola, Africa; Padre J. S. Moure, Uniy. do Paranda, Curitiba, Brazil; Dr. M. EH. W. Valentine, New Zealand Dept. of Scientific and Industrial Research, Nelson; Dr. P. H. Van Doesburg, Jr., Cantonlaan 1, Baarn, Holland; Dr. Roland F. Hussey, Univ. of Florida, Gainesville; Dr. David R. Smith, Oregon State Univ.; Dr. William E. China, British Museum (Natural History), London; Dr. J. Carayon, Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris; Dr. Paul M. Marsh, Univ. of California, Berkeley; Dr. J. van der Vecht, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Netherlands; Dr. Howard EH. Evans, Museum of Comparative Zoology; Dr. John H. Flynn, Albany College of Pharmacy, Union Univ.; Dr. Pierre Basilewsky, Musée Royal du Congo Belge, Brussels; Dr. Elbert R. Jaycox, Univ. of Illinois; Dr. M. W. Nielson, Entomology Research Division, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Mesa, Arizona; Dr. Harry Allen, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Moorestown, New Jersey.
Lepidoptera: Mr. James HE. Appleby, Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station, Wooster; Dr. John N. Belkin, Univ. of California, Los Angeles; Dr. Clifford O. Berg, Cornell Univ.; Mr. A. Blanchard, Houston, Texas; Mr. F. Martin Brown, Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs; Dr. George J. Burton, National Cancer Institute, West Africa Research Laboratory, Ghana; Mr. J. G. Chillecott, Entomology Research Institute, Canada Dept. of Agriculture; Dr. Edward I. Coher, Waltham, Mass.; Dr. Mario Coluzzi, Instituto di Malariologia “EK. Marchiafava”’ Monticelli (Frosinone), Italy; Mr. Charles V. Covell, Jr., Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blackburg; Dr. A. Diakonoff, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Netherlands; Dr. John G. Franclemont, Cornell Univ.; Maj. Thomas J. Curtin, 6570th Epidemiological Laboratory, Lackland Air Force Base, Tex.; Miss Mercedes Delfinado, Bureau of Health, Manila; Dr. J. Linsley Cressitt, Bernice P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu; Miss Gail Grodhaus, Dept. of Public Health, Berkeley, Calif. ; Dr. Charles Hartley, Entomology Branch, Camp Detrick, Md.; Dr. Alexander A. Hubert, Walter Reed Army Institute of Medical Research ; Dr. H. C. Huckett, Riverhead, N.Y.; Mr. Charles P. Kimball, West Barnstable, Mass.; Dr. Peter Mattingly and Mr. P. Whalley, British Museum (Natural

<<<Page: 100>>>

History), London; Mr. W. S. McAlpine, Birmingham, Mich.; Dr. Max W. MeFadden, Fairfax, Va.; Dr. Judson U. McGuire, Plant Industry Station, USDA, Beltsville, Md.; Col. S. S. Nicolay, U.S. Marine Corps, Norfolk, Va.; Dr. Nicholas S. Obraztsov, Sea Cliff, Long Island, N.Y.; Mr. Thomas M. Peters, Univ. of Minnesota; Mr. Robert W. Poole and Dr. Roger Williams, Cornell Univ. ; Mr. George W. Rawson, Washington, D.C. ; Dr. Klaus Sattler, Zoologische Sammlung des Bayerischen Staates, Munich, Germany; Dr. Yale 8S. Sedman, Western Illinois Univ., Macomb; Mr. Walter A. Steffan, Univ. of California, Berkeley ; Dr. James E. Sublette, Univ. of Eastern New Mexico, Portales; Dr. Pierre Viette, Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris; Dr. Pedro Wygodzinsky, American Museum of Natural History, New York; Dr. Koji Yano, Kyushu Univ., Fukuoka, Japan.
Myriapoda and Arachnida: Dr. B. Condo, Université de Nancy, Nancy, France ; Dr. O. Kraus, Senckenbergische Naturforschende, Gesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main; Dr. W. T. Keeton, Cornell Univ.; Mrs. H. Frizzell, Rolla, Mo.; Dr. N. B. Causey, Fayetteville, Ark.; Dr. R. L. Hoffman, Radford College, Blacksburg, Va.
Neuropteroids: Dr. Vincent D. Roth, American Museum of Natural History, Southwest Research Station, Portal, Ariz.; Dr. C. S. Carbonell, Univ. of Montevideo, Uruguay; Dr. T. P. Copeland, Eastern Tennessee State Univ., Johnson City; Miss Virginia Spaeth, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana; Dr. Thomas J. Walker, Univ. of Florida; Dr. D. C. Geijskes, Director, Surianaams Museum, Paramaribo, Surinam; Mr. David C. Rentz, Novata, Calif.
Botany
Chairman Jason R. Swallen continued his investigations of the grasses of southern Brazil, and published two papers, the first on the Gramineae, in “Vegetation and Flora of the Sonoran Desert,” by Forrest Shreve and Ira L. Wiggins, and the second on new species of Digitaria and Trichachne. In September and October he visited South Africa at the invitation of the National Botanic Gardens of South Africa for the Golden Jubilee Celebration of the Gardens. The celebration included over a month’s tour of South Africa, and afforded an excellent opportunity for selective collecting to obtain a number of species new to the U.S. National Herbarium.
Phanerogams.—Curator Lyman B. Smith continued his studies in the Bromeliaceae and in the flora of Brazil. In collaboration with The George Washington University, he supervised the completion of a master’s thesis on the Apocynaceae of Burma by Ma Mya Bwin anda doctoral thesis on Z/ex in North America and the Guayana Highland by Gabriel Edwin; both papers were based largely on material in the National Herbarium.
Associate curator Velva E. Rudd continued her work on the papilionoid legumes of Mexico, bringing the manuscript of part I to completion. Dr. Rudd also continued her research on the myrmecophilous acacias of Mexico and Central America and on the Leguminosae of the Yucatan Peninsula, and began monographic studies on the tribe Dalbergieae. In connection with her studies in the Leguminosae, she
744993— 64

<<<Page: 101>>>

visited the herbarium of the Instituto de Biologia in Mexico City, and in September attended the Second Mexican Botanical Congress in San Luis Potosi.
Associate curator John J. Wurdack continued his review of neotropical Melastomataceae, with special emphasis on collections from southern Ecuador and northern Peru. In connection with this work and with his studies on the flora of the Guayana Highland, Dr. Wurdack visited the New York Botanical Garden in June and November. Recently he undertook the preparation of the Melastomataceae for the “Flora de Venezuela,” a project involving over 700 species.
Associate curator Stanwyn G. Shetler continued his biosystematic and monographic studies of North American Campanula, with special emphasis on the Harebell Complex (C. rotundifolia and related species). Also continuing were floristic and phytogeographic studies of the Alaskan flora, with emphasis on the Seward Peninsula, the south slope of the Brooks Range, and the Pribilof Islands. Between June 17 and August 31 he spent six weeks collecting plants in the Brooks Range, Alaska.
Dr. Wallace R. Ernst joined the staff July 29, 1963, as associate curator of phanerogams. During the years he completed a manuscript on the genus /’schscholzia in the South Coast Ranges of California, and with Dr. H. J. Thompson of the University of California at Los Angeles, one on the pollination patterns and the taxonomy of the genus Eucnide. Dr. Ernst began a research project with Dr. A. C. Smith toward a flora of Fiji with studies of the Araliaceae and Guttiferae. In August he attended the AIBS meetings at Amherst, Mass., where his joint paper with Dr. H. J. Thompson won an award in taxonomy. On April 1, Dr. Ernst left for three months to participate in the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of Dominica, British West Indies.
Associate curator Dan H. Nicolson, who joined the staff January 5, 1964, continued twin projects begun before coming to the Smithsonian, a preparation of scripts for all genera of Araceae for the “Index Nominum Genericorum,” and a revision of the genus Ag/laonema (Araceae). In early May, with Stanwyn Shetler and David Lellinger, he made a reconnaissance visit to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park for the Smithsonian exhibits program.
Research associate José Cuatrecasas, concentrated on the preparation of a revision of Colombian Compositae of some 800 species. Research associate Kittie F, Parker, continued her monographic studies of several genera of American Compositae.
Grasses.—Associate curator Thomas R. Soderstrom participated in the New York Botanical Garden expedition to the Wilhelmina Mountains, Surinam, from June te October. Before joining the expedition

<<<Page: 102>>>

party, he spent nine days in Trinidad collecting and studying the grasses of the island. With Dr. Henry Decker, Ohio Wesleyan University, he published a paper on Swadlenia, a new name for the Californian genus /’ctosperma, and another on eederochiloa, a new genus of dioecious grasses from Mexico. His studies of some collections of British Guiana grasses resulted in the description of six new species, to be published in the Memoirs of the New York Botanical Garden.
Research associate F. A. McClure, continued his studies relating to the redefinition of the genera of the Bambusoideae, especially the bamboos of the Old World. A taxonomic paper, giving subgeneric status under the genus Zhamnocalamus to two species of hitherto uncertain taxonomic position is being prepared under joint authorship with W. C. Lin of the Taiwan Forestry Research Institute.
Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton continued his studies of the ferns of tropical America, especially an account of the genus Blechnum in Brazil, based mostly on the large collections made by Father Raulino Reitz in southern Brazil. He continued his study of the photographs he made of fern types in European herbaria; the work of labeling the duplicates is being continued under a new grant from the National Science Foundation. Mr. Morton spent three weeks in July in libraries in London and Paris checking bibliographic information for this work, and five days in April at Harvard University and the New York Botanical Garden. Jointly with Mr. Lellinger, he prepared a treatment of the genus Aspleniwm in Venezuela, based largely on the extensive collections assembled from the Guayana Highlands region by the New York Botanical Garden and the Chicago Natural History Museum; this work will be pnblished in the Memoirs of the New York Botanical Garden.
Associate curator David B. Lellinger, who joined the staff August 26, 1963, continued with his revisions of the genera Ji/della and Cheiloplecton, began a study of Pterozonium, and accumulated materials for revisions of two groups of species in the genus Checlanthes. He spent brief periods in research at the herbaria of Duke University, North Carolina State College, Michigan State University, and the University of Michigan.
Cryptogams.—Curator Mason E. Hale continued monographic studies on the lichen genus Parmelia, with special reference to subgenus Xanthoparmelia. Elizabeth J. Denison, supported by National Science Foundation funds, assisted with technical problems from January to May 1964. Dr. Hale made a five weeks’ trip to the major European herbaria to examine and to test chemically type specimens and general herbarium collections. Field studies of populations of Xanthoparmelia were conducted in Minnesota, New England, and the

<<<Page: 103>>>

southern Appalachians. A large manuscript on subgenus Amphigymnia and a summary of subgenus Parmelia are now in press.
Associate curator Harold E. Robinson conducted field exploration for bryophytes during three months in Dominica as a member of the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey. He continued floristic studies of the bryophytes of tropical America, especially southern Brazil and Venezuela.
Associate curator Paul Conger continued studies on a large collection of British, Australian, and New Zealand Antarctic diatoms, both plankton and sediments. He completed a manuscript on a new species of epibenthic marine diatom from Honolulu harbor, Hawaii.
Associate curator Richard E. Norris, before resigning in August, completed two cruises on the R/V Anton Bruun in the Indian Ocean and made a number of collections of marine algae and plankton, which are now being processed at the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center.
Plant Anatomy.—Curator William L. Stern was on leave from the Smithsonian Institution, having been transferred temporarily to the International Civil Service so that he could spend a year in the Philippines as a Forestry Officer with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
Associate curator Richard H. Eyde completed a comparative anatomical investigation of the flower in Garrya, an American genus of debated affinities, concluding that the closest allies are the Old World cornaceous genera Aucuba and Griselinia. He continued research on the comparative anatomy of fossil and modern members and allies of the dogwood family, with emphasis on the genera Corokia, Mastixia, and Alangium.
Visiting investigators——Among those who visited the department were the following:
Bernice G. Schubert, Harvard Univ.; B. L. Turner, Univ. of Texas; D. B. Ward, Univ. of Florida; Dana Griffin and Aaron J. Sharp, Univ. of Tennessee ; C. L. Lundell, Texas Research Foundation; R. H. Mohlenbrock, Southern Illinois Uniy.: George Shields, Lamont Geological Laboratory; R. Schuster, Uniy. of Massachusetts; J. W. Price, Franklin and Marshall College; Emil G. Kukachka, Minnesota Forestry Dept.; George L. Church, Brown Uniy.; Louis O. Williams, Chicago Natural History Museum; Mike Neushal, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara: P. C. Hutchison, Univ. of California, Berkeley; Elva Lawton and Grace Howard, Univ. of Washington, Seattle; Alma Toevs Walker, Univ. of Georgia; Margaret Fulford, Univ. of Cincinnati; Ira L. Wiggins, Stanford Univ. : G. T. Johnson, Univ. of Arkansas; I. T. Prance, New York Botanical Garden; Helmut Krempl, Forest Product Research Station, Vienna, Austria; Alain Mariaux, Centre Technique Forestier Tropical, France; Robert Ross, British Museum (Natural History), London; Bro. Fabius Leblane, Univ. of Ottawa; Aino Henssen, Univ. of Marburg, Germany; F. G. Wessels Boer, State Univ. of Utrecht, Netherlands: Mario Ricardi, Universidad de Concepién, Chile; T. D.

<<<Page: 104>>>

Pennington, Oxford Univ., England; Tang-shui Lin, National Taiwan Univ. ; J. M. Gillett, Canada Dept. of Agriculture; A. L. Cabrera, Museo de La Plata, Argentina; Benigno A. Lomibao, Forest Products Research Institute, P.I.; Tsuneo Kishima, Wood Research Institute, Kyoto, Japan; Shripad N. Agashe, Poona, India; L. J. Shallom, Nagpur, India; E. A. Quist-Arcton, Ministry of Agriculture, Ghana; B. 8S. Venkatachala, Lucknow, India.
Paleobiology
A plan to divide the department of geology into two departments, mineral sciences and paleobiology, was approved on August 20, 1963, and the reorganization became effective on October 15, 1963. The diversity of disciplines in the old geology department made the partition logical and desirable. The purely physical subjects of mineralogy, petrology, and meteorites are now separated from the biological subjects of paleontology and ecology. The department of mineral sciences consists of three divisions, mineralogy, meteorites, and petrology.
In hall of fossil mammals, fourth and last of series of murals by artist Jay H. Matternes depicts an assemblage of Pliocene animals.

<<<Page: 105>>>

The department of paleobiology consists of four divisions: Invertebrate paleontology, vertebrate paleontology, paleobotany, and sedimentology.
Dr. G. A. Cooper, chairman of the department of paleobiology, in collaboration with R. E. Grant of the U.S. Geological Survey, nearly completed the manuscript on the Permian brachiopods of the Glass Mountains, Tex. In March and April Dr. Cooper went to New Mexico with Dr. J. T. Dutre of the Geological Survey, to study local Devonian materials.
Paleobotany.—Associate curator Francis M. Hueber has continued his investigations of the Lower Devonian flora of the Gaspé and northern New Brunswick regions of Canada. Preparations of petrifactions collected during August from one locality near Dalhousie, New Brunswick, have helped clarify certain anatomical] details of a profern which is being studied cooperatively with Dr. Harlan P. Banks of Cornell University and with Dr. Suzanne Leclereq of the Université de Liege, Belgium. The final details have been obtained for completing the redescription and reconstruction of Psilophyton princeps var. ornatum; the results of these findings demonstrate the need for broad taxonomic changes among the fossil Psilopsida. New reports of genera heretofore known only from European Devonian deposits are being established by the continued laboratory investigation of the material. Excellent preparations of petrified materials have been made by museum technician James P. Ferrigno. Dr. Hueber’s studies, in collaboration with Mr. Leeds M. Carluccio and Dr. Harlan P. Banks of Cornell University, of fossil plants presently referable to the genera Archaeopteris and Callixylon are soon to be published. This investigation has pointed up the need for a revision of the genus Archaeopteris.
Dr. Walter H. Adey, who specializes in Tertiary and Recent Marine algae, joined the staff as associate curator of paleobotany on June 30, 1964.
Invertebrate Paleontology.—Curator Richard S. Boardman and museum specialist George T. Farmer completed their collecting of the bryozoan fauna of the Middle Ordovician of Oklahoma. Mr. Farmer is using a part of the fauna for a doctoral dissertation and has made good progress on its preparation.
Research assistant Dr. John Utgaard is working in cooperation with Dr. Boardman on a revision of the genera of the Paleozoic Bryozoa. Two manuscripts have been completed and Dr. Utgaard has made good progress on the Cyclostomata.
Museum specialist Frederick Collier has completed the tedious preparation, working on his own time for a master’s thesis on the rhomboporoid Bryozoa, of some Middle Devonian strata of New York State;

<<<Page: 106>>>

and he has started collecting biometrical data for a taxonomic treatment.
Associate curator Porter M. Kier spent June and part of July studying the living habits of echinoids in the Florida Keys. Dr. Ker, accompanied by Dr. Norman Sohl of the U.S. Geological Survey, used scuba diving equipment to observe species distribution relative to bottom conditions and depth. Large collections were made for comparative investigations, and individuals were studied both in their natural environment and in aquaria. Dr. Kier continued these investigations in the month of April, diving off Dominica as part of the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of that island. Scuba and other diving techniques were employed to make collections and note environmental relationships of the echinoid populations. Museum investigations enabled Dr. Kier to complete a major manuscript on the evolutionary trends in Paleozoic echinoids.
Associate curator Richard Cifelli continued his studies of the distribution and abundance of Recent planktonic Foraminifera. These studies are being pursued in relationship to the circulation and general hydrography of the north Atlantic. In a concurrent investigation, in the equatorial Atlantic, Dr. Cifelli is making an analysis of submarine cores which is concerned with problems of correlation of the cores by Foraminifera and paleoclimatic interpretations. In a joint study with Dr. T. G. Gibson of the U.S. Geological Survey, Dr. Cifelli is conducting investigations of the stratigraphic succession of Tertiary planktonic Foraminifera in the coastal plains of eastern United States. Dr. Cifelli completed two papers now in press, one on planktonic Foraminifera from the western Atlantic and the other on concentration techniques of separating shelled organisms from plankton.
Associate curator Erle G. Kauffman has continued investigations of the evolution and taxonomy of Cretaceous pelecypods in North America, In particular the Inoceraminae and Ostreidae. Dr. Kauffman, accompanied by Mr. G. R. Paulson, made a two months’ collecting trip to the mid-continent and eastern Rocky Mountains. More than 25 detailed stratigraphic sections were measured and an estimated 4,000 specimens were collected; these latter will be of great value in distributional and evolutionary studies, as well as for determining the biostratigraphic utility of the species. Also, studies have been started on the Cretaceous pelecypods of the Caribbean area. Two weeks in March were spent with Dr. Norman F. Sohl, collecting at localities in Puerto Rico. A silicified fauna was collected which contains many new species apparently endemic to the Caribbean area. A review of the Jurassic and Cretaceous Ostreidae of Saudi Arabia has been started; the Pholadomyidae from this fauna are now under study. Dr. Kauffman completed four manuscripts which have been approved for publication.

<<<Page: 107>>>

Associate curator Martin A. Buzas joined the staff June 1963. His research activities involve distributional studies of Recent and late Tertiary smaller Foraminifera. Dr. Buzas completed manuscripts on the Foraminifera from a late Pleistocene clay near Waterford, Maine, and a distributional study of the species of Foraminifera in Long Island Sound. The New York study included analyses of many environmental conditions, such as sediment particle size and chemical properties of the water. His most recent investigation is a canonical analysis of four species of EVphidium. Eight characters were measured on series of specimens and the statistics programmed for evaluation by means of a multivariate technique which utilizes a high-speed electronic computer.
Dr. Richard H. Benson joined the staff as associate curator of invertebrate paleontology on June 30, 1964. His area of specialization is the Ostracoda of the Tertiary.
Vertebrate Paleontology.—Curator C. L. Gazin completed his morphologic study of the Early Eocene condylarthran mammal d/eniscotherium. This has included a detailed review of nearly the entire skeleton, which is compared with those of other condylarths and the hyracoids. The latter were once thought to be fairly closely related to Meniscotherium, but the resemblances are now regarded as primarily adaptive. A beginning was also made in study of a fauna from a new Paleocene horizon in the Evanston formation of southwestern Wyoming, and of a recently prepared endocranial cast of the Middle Eocene Bridger primate Smilodectes.
In connection with his condylarthran studies, Dr. Gazin visited the Chicago Natural History Museum in February for further evidence on the ecology of Aeniscotherium as interpreted from details of associated biota, and in June again visited Princeton and Yale Universities and the American Museum to wind up details of the morphologic study, under funds provided by the National Science Foundation.
Field work by the curator earlier in the year was carried on principally in the Middle Eocene Bridger formation of southwestern Wyoming. Much of the time was devoted to a careful search for smaller mammals in the upper part of the formation, as exposed in the upper basin of Sage Creek, but with some attention to the lower levels in the Grizzly Buttes and to the north of Cedar Mountain. Occasional trips were made to profitable localities of earlier years in the Paleocene and Early Eocene of adjacent basins. Franklin L. Pearce, chief of the laboratory of vertebrate paleontology, assisted him during the early part of the field season but illness prevented his remaining throughout. At the close of the year Dr. Gazin and Mr. Pearce departed for field work in New Mexico and Wyoming.

<<<Page: 108>>>

During September and October associate curator D. H. Dunkle, accompanied by museum technician G. B. Sullivan, conducted field work in northwestern Ohio, the area around Council Bluffs, lowa, and the Manzano Mountains of central New Mexico. Their collections and stratigraphic observations will permit important additions to and revisions of the known paleoichthyological faunas of the Middle Devonian silica shale of Ohio and several Late Paleozoic horizons of the mid-continent and Rocky Mountain regions. The New Mexico occurrence investigated is of especial interest ; it is practically the lone source in North America of a varied marine assemblage of well-preserved fishes, invertebrates, and plants from the Permo-Carboniferous interval.
Aided by a study trip to Pittsburgh and Cleveland, excellent progress was accomplished in the preparation and description for publication of a new paleoniscoid fish from the Upper Devonian Ohio shales and of the fishes of the Middle Devonian silica shale.
In September associate curator Nicholas Hotton III left Washington for field work in Africa. In addition to collecting in the Permo-Triassic beds of the Karroo region in South Africa, which has yielded a variety of mammal-like reptiles, he has been carrying on during a greater part of the year a detailed stratigraphic study of the Beaufort series with a view toward a better understanding of the distribution and ecology of the forms. At the end of this year he had left Africa for Europe to study at certain of the leading museums.
Associate curator Clayton E. Ray, who joined the staff on December 18, 1963, has continued his studies, carried on previously at the University of Florida, of fossil and modern terrestrial vertebrates, especially rodents of the Antillean region. Since his arrival he has completed reports of a new species of capromyid rodent and an undescribed mimiature ground sloth, both from a cave in the Dominican Republic. He also continued his studies, initiated in Florida, of the North American Quaternary fauna, including that of a Blancan fauna from Florida, the first in eastern United States.
In April, sponsored by the National Science Foundation, Dr. Ray gave at Shorter College, Rome, Ga., a lecture on Pleistocene animals. At that time he visited a Pleistocene fossil locality. Near the close of the year, in the vicinity of Puebla, Mexico, Dr. Ray conducted a field investigation of Pleistocene occurrences in collaboration with an NSF-sponsored archeological party from the Peabody Museum in Cambridge, Mass.
Dr. Remington Kellogg, research associate, continued his studies of the Tertiary Cetacea and completed a report on the skeleton of one of the larger Calvert Miocene whalebone whales. Satisfactory progress

<<<Page: 109>>>

was made on the evaluation and identification of some of Cope’s cetacean types which had been based on imperfectly preserved vertebrae. Comparative studies of several types of Miocene mysticetes are being pursued.
Visiting investigators.——Among the scientists using the facilities of the department were the following:
Paleobotany: Dr. Suzanne Leclercq, Université de Liege, Belgium; Dr. Erling Dorf, Princeton Univ.; Mrs. M. R. Davis, Univ. of Miami; Mr. Lawrence C. Matten and Mr. Leeds M. Carluecio, Cornell Uniy.; Dr. Maxine L. Abbott, Univ. of Cincinnati.
Invertebrate paleontology: Dr. A. F. Leanza, Haedo, Argentina; Dr. Irene McCullock of the Allan Hancock Foundation, Los Angeles; Dr. Walter Sadlick, Univ. of Houston, Tex.; Dr. Zofia Kielan-Jaworowska, Polska Akademia Nauk, Warsaw, Poland; Dr. Hans E. Kaiser, Bonn, Germany; Dr. J. D. Wiseman, British Museum (Natural History), London; Dr. David Nichols, Oxford, England; Drs. Frank C. Killey and W. VY. Ramsey, British Petroleum Research Centre, Sunbury, England; Dr. Johannes, Geological Survey of Indonesia; Dr. Carl Waage, Yale Univ.; Dr. Bernhard Kummel, Harvard Univ.; Mr. Marshall Kay, Columbia Univ.; Dr. Raymond C. Moore, Univ. of Kansas; Drs. John Bradshaw and F. D. Phleger of Scripps Institution of Oceanography; and Dr. Keith Young, Univ. of Texas.
Vertebrate paleontology: Shelton P. Applegate, James R. Macdonald, and John A. White, Los Angeles County Museum; Donald Baird, Princeton Univ.; Edwin H. Colbert, Giles T. MacIntyre, Malcolm C. McKenna, Bobb Schaeffer, Morris F. Skinner, Beryl E. Taylor, and Leigh Van Valen, American Museum of Natural History; Mary R. Dawson, Carnegie Museum; John A. Dorr, Univ. of Michigan ; Tilly Edinger, Bryan Patterson, and Alfred S. Romer, Museum of Comparative Zoology; Robert W. Fields, Montana State Univ.; G. Edward Lewis, Denver Federal Center; Richard Lund, Columbia Univ.; John S. McIntosh and John H. Ostrom, Yale Peabody Museum; Stanley J. Olsen, Florida Geological Survey ; Donald E. Savage, Univ. of California; and C. Bertrand Schultz, Univ. of Nebraska State Museum, Hans E. Kaiser, Hanover-Kirchrode, West Germany ; Bjorn Kurtén, Geological Institute, Helsingfors, Finland; René Lavocat and Donald E. Russell, Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris; F. R. Parrington, Cambridge Univ., England; Osvaldo A. Reig, Univ. of Buenos Aires, Argentina; A. J. Sutcliffe, British Museum (Natural History), London; Heinz Tobien, Hessisches Landesmuseum, Darmstadt, West Germany; Georges Vandebroek, Université, Louvain, Belgium.
Mineral Sciences
Department chairman George Switzer completed the annual review of the diamond industry and, with Roy S. Clarke, Jr., Helen Worthing, and John Sinkankas, completed a manuscript on “Fluorine in Hambergite.”
Associate curator Paul E. Desautels began an investigation of a suite of rare uranium minerals from a new locality in Mexico, and completed a study of one of them, sklodowskite, a hydrous magnesium uranyl

<<<Page: 110>>>

silicate. Mr. Desautels addressed mineral societies in Tucson, Philadelphia, New York, Baltimore, Toronto, and Washington, D.C.
John S. White, Jr., museum technician, nearly completed a study of the rare mineral plattnerite, oxide of lead, from several new localities in Arizona and Mexico.
Associate curator EK. P. Henderson completed two manuscripts—one, a study of the hexahedrite meteorite group, and the second, a discussion of the legendary and probably nonexistent Port Orford, Oreg., meteorite. A study of the metallography of the Bogou, Upper Volta, iron meteorite was also completed.
During the year Mr. Henderson spent four months in the field in Australia with Dr. Brian Mason of The American Museum of Natural History, and Dr. R. O. Chalmers of The Australian Museum. Meteorite material was collected from four well-known Australian craters, Henbury, Boxhole, Wolf Creek, and Dalgaranga. The Dalgety Downs meteorite was relocated and nearly 500 pounds of material recovered, and many fine tektite specimens were also collected. Exchanges arranged during the stay in Australia, and on the return trip through the Middle East and Europe, have added a number of fine new specimens to the collection.
In November 1963 Mr. Henderson was awarded the degree of Doctor philosophiae honoris causa by the University of Bern for his many contributions to the study of meteorites.
Roy 8S. Clarke, Jr., continued his studies of chemical methods of meteorite analysis; minor element analyses of several iron meteorites are in progress. Investigation of an iron oxide corrosion product of a metal blade from the Freer Gallery collection, conducted in cooperation with R. J. Gettens and E. W. FitzHugh, proved that this ancient blade was fabricated from meteoritic iron. A complete chemical analysis of the mineral phosphophyllite from Bolivia was made.
Tektite studies, particularly relating to the Martha’s Vineyard and Georgia tektites, are continuing. Mr. Clarke attended the Second Tnternational Symposium on Tektites in Pittsburgh in September, and participated in the organization of a fruitful meeting of tektite research workers and representatives of the scientific staff of the Corning Glass Works held in Corning, New York in February. Henderson and Clarke visited the Georgia tektite area with Mr. Thomas E. Allen of Atlanta in March.
In June 1964 a grant was received from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to conduct studies of constituents, compositions, and textures of meteorites, and their bearing on theoretical problems.

<<<Page: 111>>>

Library in new Museum of History and Technology occupies a central location among fifth-floor curatorial offices.
Science and Technology
Chairman Robert P. Multhauf was principally occupied with a study of the history of early chemistry, which was nearly complete at year’s end. During the year Dr. Multhauf presented a paper on the use of calculating machines in scientific work, and another on early theories of the nature of metals.
Physical Sciences.—Curator Walter F. Cannon devoted his research time to a continuation of his studies of English scientists of the early 19th century. He prepared two papers for publication on the characteristics of physical science in the 19th century. A paper on the scientific work of William Whewell was prepared at the request of the editor of the Notes and Records of the Royal Society and will be published in that journal.
Uta C. Merzbach, associate curator, continued her investigations of the history of modern algebra, and began a detailed research project on the mathematics of Leibniz.
Mechanical and Civil Engineering.—Curator Silvio A. Bedini toured technical museums and other institutions of learning in Great
3ritain and continental European countries and presented lectures on 17th-century optical instrument makers at the Astrophysical Ob

<<<Page: 112>>>

servatory at Arcetri and at the Instituto Nazionale della Ottica of the University of Florence. He was invited to present a paper on Giovanni de’Dondi at the University of Padua in October for the sexcentenary of the astrarium. He has completed a book entitled “Mechanical Universe” on the de’Dondi astrarium in collaboration with Francis R. Maddison of the Museum of the History of Science at Oxford University. This work, which is scheduled for publication during the present year, is the product of his research in north Italian archives during his tour of museums and will present a considerable amount of hitherto unstudied documentary material.
During the past year Mr. Bedini also completed three more articles about antique scientific instruments in the national collections, one of which has already been published; a comprehensive investigation of the invention of the orrery, including study of an unrecorded instrument recently discovered in an American collection; an article on the evolution of science museums for the special museum issue of Technology and Culture; and a study of early Italian science museums for publication in Cultura e Scuola in Rome. In addition to these, Mr. Bedini has completed an article on Galileo’s preoccupation with the measurement of time, which will form part of the Saggi, the memorial volume of Galilean studies to be published by the Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche in Rome; a comparative study of Galileo’s instruments for the memorial volume of Galilean studies to be published by Notre Dame University; and a paper about the craftsmen
Historic machines and patent models illustrate development of typewriter in hall of light machinery.

<<<Page: 113>>>

Automatic graduating machine of 1859, for linear and circular graduations, made by J. R. Brown of Providence, R.!., who in 1850 made the first such device known to have been used in the United States.
who produced the instruments used by Galileo, which will be presented at the Symposium Internationale di Storia, in Florence and Pisa in September 1964. In progress is a biography on the Della Volpaia, a family of engravers, sculptors, clock-makers, engineers and instrument-makers which flourished in Florence during the 15th and 16th centuries and which made a considerable contribution to science, technology, and the arts.
In the section of light machinery and horology, associate curator Edwin A. Battison completed the first draft of a translation of Jacques Besson’s Theatrum Instrumentarum et Machinarum from the 16thcentury French with the assistance of summer intern Bruce H. White. Since this work has not been previously available in English, this translation will be a significant contribution to the history of technology. Names of American patentees appearing on subject lists for a period of three years of the mid-19th century were added to an alphabetical card file in progress, making a total of six years now completed.
Associate curator Robert M. Vogel in the section of heavy machinery and civil engineering, during the course of a study trip to the Midwest, conducted research on the development of the uniflow steam engine in the United States. In addition to interviewing numerous individuals

<<<Page: 114>>>

who were instrumental in the introduction of the uniflow concept into American engineering practice prior to World War I, Mr. Vogel made a thorough search of the archives of the Skinner Engine Company, the leading manufacturer of this type of engine.
Trans portation.—Three trips to Spain were made by curator Howard I. Chapelle in connection with the reconstruction of Columbus’ Santa Maria by a Barcelona shipyard for the New York World’s Fair. At the same time he was able to accomplish research on Spanish shipbuilding of the 18th and early 19th centuries, especially with respect to American colonial shipbuilding and Spanish influence on their design. Mr. Chapelle has also completed about half the anticipated work on his long-range project regarding the search for speed under sail.
John H. White, Jr., associate curator, has concentrated on his project entitled “Representative Locomotives”; about 200 illustrations are now completed and about a third of the text in first draft.
Museum specialist Donald Berkebile has nearly completed his research on the famous Liberty Truck of World War I.
Electricity.—Curator Bernard S. Finn continued his research into the history of thermoelectricity, with a view to publishing a source book of the important historical documents in the field. Information compiled from trips to Kuropean museums last year and to American museums this year will be used in an article characterizing the modern science museum.
Over the past two years a large-scale effort has been made to visit colleges and universities to find objects for the collections. Toward this end Dr. Finn made a week’s tour through South Carolina and Georgia, and Mr. Sivowitch had a fruitful two days in the Philadelphia area. Partly as a result of this type of direct searching, the division has received objects over the past year from fourteen of these institutions. Important large collections of material have been received from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Columbia University.
Medical Sciences.—Dr. Sami Hamarneh revised a Bibliography of Medicine and Pharmacy in Medieval Islam for publication in mid1964. He also studied the life and literary contributions of the 9th century physician-philosopher Yaqub al-Kindi. Dr. Hamarneh visited the University of Wisconsin to inspect and select pharmaceutical objects of historical significance.
Visiting investigators.—Among the scholars, students, and other interested individuals who visited the department of science and technology during the year to use the collections were:
Physical Sciences: Dr. Victor Lenzen, Uniy. of California (outside investigator interested in instruments for measurement of gravity); Dr. Sigvard Strandh,

<<<Page: 115>>>

Technical Museum, Stockholm (studying Swedish instruments represented in U.S. National Museum); Major William F. Leubbert, U.S. Military Academy (studying the use of historical information in teaching the use of computers) ; Edmund A. Bowles, International Business Machines Corp. (Studying the establishment of a museum of the history of mathematics) ; Edward McCormick, National Science Foundation (studying the history of computers); Victor S. Johnston, Victor Business Machines (studying the history of calculating machines) ; John Coldman, National Academy of Sciences (studying the biography of former members of the Naticnal Academy of Sciences) ; Willis Van Devanter, Upperville, Va. (interested in information on the history of alchemy) ; Robert B. Lewis, Uniy. of California (establishment of an exhibition of science for teaching purposes) ; Dr. Philip George, Univ. of Pennsylvania (studying the teaching of the history of science) ; Douglas H. Bedell, the Evening and Sunday Bulletin, Philadelphia (interested in Philadelphia inventions) ; Richard Perkin, PerkinElmer Corp. (history of astronomical instruments); Raymond Szymanowitz (studying the biography of Edward Acheson).
Mechanical and Civil Engineering: Preston R. Bassett, Ridgefield, Conn. ; Prof. William Bassett, Univ. of Rochester; Miss Molly Cooper, Life Science Library, New York; Prof. Vasco Ronchi, Instituto Nazionale della Ottica, Florence, Italy; Brother Nivard, Catholic Univ.; Mr. and Mrs. James M. Doubleday, Ridgefield, Conn.; J. K. Schofield, Pratt & Whitney Corp., East Hartford, Conn. ; Prof. Derek J. de Solla Price, Yale Univ.; Father William Stenger, Dominican School, Racine, Wis. ; John P. McNeel, Popular Mechanics Magazine; Mrs. Joseph F. Carson; Prof. R. J. Hansen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; H. Badorrek, German Embassy; Rowland Mainstone, Garston, England; Peter S. Lamb, Stratford-on-Avon, England; Dr. Torsten Althin, former Director of the Tekniska Museet, Stockholm; M. J. B. Rauck, Deutsches Museum, Munich; Eugene W. Bolling, Upper Montclair, N.J.; Mrs. William Slater Allen, Providence, R.I.; Charles 8. Parson, Goffstown, N.H.; Dr. Robert Wildhaber, Swiss Museum for Folklore and Folk Art, Basel,; D. W. Leverenz, Elgin, Ill.; John Vernon, London,; A. T. Haendler, Boston Edison Company, Ashland, Mass.; Alvan Fisher, General Electric Co., Ashland, Mass.; Walter M. Fisk, United Press International; G. Fritsen, Aarle-Rixtel, Netherlands.
Transportation: Mr. EK. W. Paget-Tomlinson, City of Liverpool Museum, England; staff members of the San Francisco Maritime Museum; Frederick <A. Chapman, Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit, Mich.; Leslie Henry, Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, Dearborn, Mich.: William E. Swigart, Swigart Auto Museum, Huntingdon, Pa.; Prof. George Hilton, Univ. of California, Los Angeles, Calif. (narrow-gauge railways).
Electricity: Miss Brooke Brown (master’s thesis), Fairfax, Va.; Stanley Golden (master’s thesis), Staten Island, N.Y.; Dr. John C. Fisher and Mr. Miland Fiske, American Museum of Electricity, Schenectady, N.Y.; Ted Dietrich, and Col. A. A. Kennedy, Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario: Dr. George H. yon Fuchs, Belmont, Mass.; Prof. Perry Sprawls, Emory Uniy., Atlanta, Ga.; H. J. Kostkos, Bell Telephone Laboratories; Alistair G. Thomson, Royal Scottish Museum, Edinburgh.
Medical Sciences: Medical and pharmaceutical students and educators from George Washington Uniy., including Dr. Robert Leonard, Dean of the School of Pharmacy; and 24 German pharmacists visited the division during their tour of this country.

<<<Page: 116>>>

This 1886 combine is the first built by Benjamin Holt of California, inventor of the caterpillar tractor. It was pulled by 20 horses or mules.
Arts and Manufactures
Manufactures and Heavy Industries.—The acting curator of the division Philip W. Bishop continued work on the revision of his history of the Scovill Manufacturing Company. Several trips to Tulsa, Oklahoma to consult with the subcommittee of the American Petroleum Institute have resulted in important additions to the exhibition materials. The acting curator represented the Smithsonian Institution at the mauguration of Babcock and Wilcox’s new nuclear research facilities at Lynchburg, Va., in April.
Agriculture and Forest Products.—Associate curator Edward C. Kendall continued his research into the relationship of early American plows to those of Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries.
Textiles Curator Grace Rogers Cooper completed her monograph on the Robertson and the Clark Dolphin and Cherub sewing machines of the 1850’s. Mrs. Cooper continued her study of textile machines and implements, especially on the use of the spinning wheel in America, and also continued to serve as a technical adviser on textiles to the Encyclopaedia Britannica. At the end of the year she was in The Netherlands to study textiles at the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam, and to attend a conference on textile conservation.
Associate curator Rita Adrosko undertook study of American handwoven coverlets, and she is completing the photographing and indexing of all the coverlets in the Museum collection. She visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Cooper Union Museum to obtain data

<<<Page: 117>>>

for her study of early damask linen table linens. Miss Adrosko continued to study methods of vegetable dyeing, and she completed a paper for publication on the preparation of a loom for exhibition.
Doris Bowman, museum technician, began a study of early machinemade net and continued cataloging the Museum’s outstanding collection of sewing birds and similar clamping devices. Miss Bowman studied examples of needlework and lace in the collections in the Philadelphia Art Museum, the Henry Ford Museum, and Colonial Williamsburg.
Ceramics and Glass.—Paul VY. Gardner, curator of the division, continued his biography of Frederick Carder, founder of the Steuben Glass Works.
He visited 64 museums, private collections, and glass factories in 11 European countries from September to December, to evaluate the Syz porcelain collection; to meet and confer with collector: and museum people in the ceramics and glass areas of study; and to examine new exhibit techniques for these objects.
Associate curator J. Jefferson Miller II, continued his projects on Staffordshire ware and English earthenware for the American market, and began a study of previously unrecorded historical items of Chinese export procelain.
Graphic Arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen made field trips to Sarasota, Fla., Philadelphia, and New York, to obtain material for his study of the Dutch engraver Hendrick Goltzius (1558-1617).
Fuller O. Griffith, associate curator, examined exhibits and printing equipment in Boston, Montpelier, Vt., New York, and Philadelphia, in connection with planning toward a new exhibit of photomechanical processes.
Associate curator Eugene Ostroff, who directs the work of the section on photography, has devoted most of his time to the preparation of exhibits scripts. In this connection he identified unmarked specimens of photographic equipment, cross-indexing them according to design and manufacturer. He also visited European museums, fabricators of photographic equipment, art dealers, photographic galleries, and private collectors, to acquire apparatus and prints for exhibit purposes.
Visiting investigators.—Of the many visitors and researchers to the department, the following may be listed:
Arts and Manufactures: Charles H. Rutledge, Textile Fibers Dept., E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Inc., Wilmington; Robert B. Thornhill, College of Engineering, Wayne State Univ., Detroit; Miss D. C. Carruthers, Edinburgh ; Mrs. eae Freedman, American Association of RA Persons, Washington, D.C.: Mr. CG. Aspin, Lancashire, England; and Mr. Ian M. G. Quimby, Merrimae Valley Taette Museum, North Andover, Mass.; Mrs. Ingeborg Lyche, UnderSecretary of Ministry of Church and Education, Norway; Mrs. Rothe, a German publisher of original prints; Miss Valerie Thornton, a printmaker from Surrey, England; Sam Rosenberg, to gather information for use on educational television; and James L. Wells, Howard Univ.

<<<Page: 118>>>

Development of presidential campaigning, 1840 to 1930, including whistle-stopping and front-porch speeches, is illustrated by this exhibit in hali of historic Americans.
Civil History
Richard H. Howland, Chairman of the department, spent much of the early part of the year on the project to remodel parts of the old Patent Office building into a National Portrait Gallery. The systematic inventory of the contents of Blair House was completed under his direction in collaboration with the Department of State.
Curator Peter C. Welsh has in press three papers on hand-tools and he made substantial progress during the year on his catalog of the Harry T. Peters Lithography Collection.
Mrs. Doris Esch Borthwick, assistant curator, made a study of the letters of Charles Wilkes to his wife in 1836, during the outfitting of the U.S. Exploring Expedition. She has also made a preliminary survey of the museum collections for examples of the scientific instruments purchased by Wilkes for this important American exploration effort.
Assistant curator Anne Castrodale continued her studies of the diary of Willham Wood Thackara, a volunteer in the War of 1812, and of the Philadelphia cabinetmaker Daniel Trotter.

<<<Page: 119>>>

Political History.—Curator Wilcomb Washburn prepared and presented a paper on law and authority in 17th-century Virginia at a conference on early American history under the joint sponsorship of the American Antiquarian Society and Clark University. He also participated in a conference at Williamsburg, Va., entitled “Arts in Early American History: Need and Opportunities for Study.” At a symposium dealing with Virginia’s human resources, sponsored by the Virginia Academy of Sciences, Dr. Washburn presented a paper on the origins and composition of Virginia’s population in the 17th century. At the annual meeting of the American Association of State and Local History meeting jointly with the Society of American Archivists, Dr. Washburn organized, and participated in, a session on “What’s New and Effective in Museum Interpretation.”
Mrs. Margaret Klapthor, associate curator, presented lectures to several groups, mostly with interests in historical aspects of official Washington and surrounding areas.
Associate curator Keith M. Melder was awarded a doctor of philosophy degree at the end of the year. In continuation of his interests in the history of women’s rights movements, he completed a paper on organized women’s benevolence in early 19th-century America. Dr. Melder also completed a biographical sketch of Josephine 8. Griffing, a 19th-century reformer; revised his manuscript on “Bryan the Campaigner”; and continued his long-term investigation of the Republican presidential campaign of 1896.
Herbert R. Collins, assistant curator, continued his research on political campaign objects, presidential carriages and automobiles, and other artifacts associated with former American Presidents.
Cultural History.—Curator C. Malcolm Watkins worked on two research projects—one, to record by means of text and photographs a series of 19th-century houses in northern California which reflect different eastern sources of inspiration; the other study is to record in photographs and on magnetic tape the traditional pottery-making techniques which have been practiced in Moore County, N.C. since the second half of the 18th century.
Associate curator Rodris Roth has enlarged the scope of her study on the revival of colonial decorative styles in the 19th century and she now has in preparation a monograph on the subject. She is also continuing her related study of furniture exhibited at the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition of 1876.
Associate curator John N. Pearce and archeological aide Richard J. Muzzrole represented the Smithsonian at a second 10-day archeological investigation of the site on which stood the New Bremen Glassworks in Frederick County, Md. The excavations revealed a

<<<Page: 120>>>

Room from 18th-century adobe dwelling, from area of Santa Fe, N. Mex., illustrates blending of Spanish and Indian building characteristics in hall of everyday life in the American past.
complex foundation structure indicating that this was a typical Germanic glass-house of the 18th century. Mr. Pearce also is continuing his research on a family of cabinetmakers; and he presented several lectures to historic organizations.
Associate curator Cynthia Adams Hoover completed a paper, ‘The Shde Trumpet of the 19th Century,” and is now working on a study of the life of John T. Norton, a slide trumpet player in the United States during the second quarter of the 19th century. In November she presented a paper, “Ornamentation in the Performance of Renaissance Music,” before the Greater Washington area of the American Musicological Society meeting at the Smithsonian. She was elected chairman of this group and was also chosen member of the committee on historic instruments, Music Teachers National Association.

<<<Page: 121>>>

The Stohlman Confectioner’s Shop, a famous Georgetown, D.C., landmark from the period 1900-1910. Closed in 1957, its furnishings are preserved in the hall of everyday life in the American past.
Philately and Postal History.—Associate curator Carl Scheele, has continued his project of compiling an outline history of Colonial Posts in North America. He has also presented talks to various philatelic groups.
Numismatics.—Curator V. Clain-Stefanelli completed a research study on a mission from Peru which came to Philadelphia to obtain modern equipment for the Lima mint, and the striking in 1855 of pattern coins for Peru. He has also submitted for publication a paper on “A New Quarter Shekel of the First Year of the Jewish War.” Dr. Stefanelli was invited to be an official guest of Israel in June—July 1963 to lecture and to study recently developed exhibit techniques. He also visited museums and private collections in Greece, The Netherlands, Belgium, and England to study coins and the history of coining techniques.
Mrs. E. Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator, studied ancient Greek coinage of Messina at the British Museum, at Oxford and Cambridge, and in The Hague. While in Israel in 1965 as an official guest of the government she lectured on various topics.
Visiting investigators.—The following visitors received assistance in their study of the collections:

<<<Page: 122>>>

Cultural History: Donald K. Paterson, president, Organ Historical Society ; Edward Croft-Murray, British Museum; Laurence Thurman, Old Economy, Pa. ; Edward Larrabee, Fortress of Louisburg Restoration, Nova Scotia ; Scott Symons, Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto; H. J. Swinney, Director, Idaho Historical Society, Boise; Charles Oman, Victoria & Albert Museum, London; Mrs. H. K. Hammitt, American Museum in Britain, Bath; Donald Shelley, Henry Ford Museum, Dearborn, Mich.; Paul N. Perrot, Corning Museum of Glass, Corning, N.Y.; John Graham, Colonial Williamsburg, Inc., Williamsburg, Va.; Charles F. Montgomery and six Winterthur Fellows in American Civilization and Culture, Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum ; Robert Wildhaber, Schweizerisches Museum fiir Volkskunde, Basel; William H. Glover, Shaker Community, Ine., Hancock, Mass.; Sylvia Soublette and Irene Siburcon, Santiago, Chile; Ernst Branziger, Walter Bianchi, and Klaus Every, Herisau, Switzerland; Sir Jack Westrup, Oxford Uniy., England.
Numismatics: Herbert J. Hrlanger and Don Taxay, New York City, Leonid Sodermann, Helsinki; Erich Cahn, Basel; Itzhak Avni, Jerusalem.
Philately and Postal History: A. M. Dickie, Alhambra, Calif.; Ellery Denison, Takoma Park, Md.; Mrs. Harvey VanDyke, Treasure Island, Fla.; Robert M. Leard, Arcadia, Calif.; Leonard Dulberg, Arthur Hecht, and O. E. Lancaster, Washington, D.C.; Gale W. Allen, McLean, Va.; Melvin Ricks, Juneau, Alaska ; I’. Raymond Stillwell, Takoma Park, Md.; Colin McP. Makepeace, Providence, R.I.
Political History: Miss Minilou Hoetink, Historisches Mueums, Rotterdam, Holland; Mrs. Stefania P. Holt, Los Angeles County Museum of Art; Miss Margaret T. Hall, Wilmington, N.C.; Mrs. Albert B. Greene, Washington, D.C.; Mrs. Laurence Gouverneur Hoes, Fredericksburg, Va.
Armed Forces History
Chairman Mendel L. Peterson continued his investigation of two underwater archeological sites in Bermuda.
Military History.—Curator Edgar M. Howell and museum specialist Donald M. Kloster continued work on a critical and descriptive catalog of United States Army uniforms in the national collections. Mr. Kloster also completed a short manuscript on quartermaster badges in the Civil War. Mr. Howell completed a descriptive catalog of the World War I paintings of Harvey Dunn, and continued his study of eyewitness art of the Indian Wars.
During the Third Congress of the Association of Museums of Arms and Military History, at which he was a delegate, associate curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., examined several weapons collections in England, Scotland, and Denmark. From these collections he obtained information pertaining to the Hall and Maynard breech-loading systems.
Naval History.—Curator Philip K. Lundeberg continued his research on the Continental gondola Philadelphia and the Northern Campaign of 1776. Dr. Lundeberg secured valuable data from the Public Records Office in London relative to British plans for the invasion of New York, and additional illustrative material was obtained,

<<<Page: 123>>>

including a reproduction of a contemporary watercolor sketch of the battle of Valcour Island by a British 18th-century combat artist. Research was also launched on the memorandum book of Samuel Nutt, a British seaman who kept a most informative journal while serving on board HMS America, 1779-1783.
Following publication of his paper “The German Naval Critique of the U-Boat Campaign, 1915-1918,” which was awarded the Moncado Prize of the American Military Institute, Dr. Lundeberg initiated a study of the impact of technology upon the naval strategy of World War I, with particular emphasis on undersea warfare.
Dr. Lundeberg has continued work on a catalog of the growing national collection of models of historic United States warships; much of the information currently is being utilized for completion of the models themselves. Extensive research was carried out in connection with plans for models of the frigate Constitution and the torpedo boat Cushing, while a check list of selected ship plans in the divisional archives has been completed and will be shortly available to the public.
During the year, associate curator Melvin H. Jackson completed the first draft of his maritime history of the Caribbean, 1793-1800, based partly on archival materials in Jamaica and Curacao. Further research is planned in France, The Netherlands, Spain and Great Britain. Closely allied to these studies is his search for objects and documents illustrative of the history of privateering. With the cooperation of the curator of transportation, Howard I. Chapelle, revised plans of the schooner Prince de Neufchatel have been completed preparatory to the construction of a model of that handsome privateer.
The history of the United States Revenue Marine continued as a major element of Dr. Jackson’s research program. A reassessment of the battle of Negro Head in 1814, involving the Revenue cutter Eagle, H. M. Sloop Dispatch and H. M. Frigate Varcissus, was published in the spring of 1964. Wide-ranging research was conducted into the history of the celebrated Revenue cutter Bear in preparation for construction of a model representing that vessel as she appeared between 1880 and 1900.
In the field of naval ordnance, Dr. Jackson undertook the completion of a manuscript by the late Colonel Carey Tucker of Maryland on the history of muzzle-loading ordnance in the United States. Additional research was carried out in connection with construction of models of the 8-inch barbette battery of the USS A¢/anta, the 10-inch turret of the USS J/aine and a Terrier missile launcher, while data were collected also for graphic representation of a 16-inch naval turret.

<<<Page: 124>>>

Taking-off the hull lines of Continental gondola Philadelphia, in order to make a lines drawing, is a step in the process of preserving this famous vessel and building a model of it.
Exhibits specialist Howard P. Hoffman of the divison of naval history conducted an exhaustive survey of the Continental gondola Philadelphia, preparing detailed plans of the vessel and her armament as the basis for construction of a large-scale model. He also conducted extended research on David Bushnell’s submarine 7urt/e, draughting plans for a longitudinal-section model of that early submersible.
Alan B. Albright, museum specialist, completed a paper on the preservation of organic materials recovered from underwater sites; publication is expected during the year.
In July and August, Chairman Peterson and museum specialist Albright investigated two underwater sites in Bermuda through the cooperation of Mr. E. B. Tucker and the Government of Bermuda. During the diving season of 1964, a full-scale expedition will be mounted to be financed by two generous supporters of the underwater program. This expedition will investigate thoroughly the early Spanish wreck site which was given a preliminary investigation last year. This site, believed to date from the 1560’s contains large portions of the ship’s bottom timbers. Special measuring devices designed by Howard P. Hoffman and James Mahoney of the museum staff, modified and built by William Sonntag of the buildings management department, are expected to give accurate measurements of these early timber remains. The resulting drawings should be of importance to historians of naval architecture.

<<<Page: 125>>>

Visiting investigators.—Assistance was provided to other Government agencies throughout the year. Among those so assisted were the National Institute of Heraldry, of the Office, Chief of Military History; Historical Division and Technical Intelligence, Office, Chief of Ordnance, Department of the Army; Prints Division and General Reference Service, Library of Congress; Army and Air Force Branch, National Archives; and Division of Naval History and Records, Department of the Navy.

<<<Page: 126>>>

Publications
The scientific publications of the United States National Museum continued under the editorship of John S. Lea.
In addition to the annual report, the Museum issued publications based on research in the national collections. Of these, 5 whole volumes were in the Bulletin series, 16 publications were in the Proceedings series, and 4 were in the Contributions from the National Herbarium.
At the close of the year, 14 Proceedings papers, 4 Contributions from the National Herbarium, and the following bulletins were in press :
82, vol. 1, part 5. A monograph of the existing crinoids, the Comatulids, suborders Oligophreata and Macrophreata, by Austin Hobart Clark and Ailsa McGown Clark.
161, part + (end of volume). The formation of the tropical Pacific collections of the Albatross, 1899-1900, by Ruth Todd.
229. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 31-33, by members of the staff.
Paper 32. Numismatics: An ancient science. A survey of its history, by Elvira Clain-Stefanelli. Paper 33. Italian coin engravers since 1800, by Elvira Clain-Stefanelli.
230. The bark canoes and skin boats of North America, by Howard I. Chapelle and Edwin Tappan Adney
231. Early American mathematical instruments and their makers, by Silvio A. Bedini.
237, part 1. Life histories of North American cardinals, grosbeaks, buntings, finches, sparrows, towhees, and allies, by Arthur Cleveland Bent, Oliver L. Austin, Wendell Taber, and collaborators.
238. The engineering experiences (1815-1840) of George Escol Sellers, edited by Eugene S. Ferguson.
239. The Recent Mollusca of Augustus Addison Gould, by Richard I. Johnson.
240. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 34-44, by members of the staff and others.
Paper 34. ‘The 1893 Duryea automobile, by Donald H. Berkebile.
Paper 35. The Borghesi astronomical clock, by Silvio A. Bedini.
Paper 36. The engineering contributions of Wendel Bollman, by Robert M. Vogel.
Paper 37. Screw-thread cutting by the master-screw method since 1480, by E. A. Battison.
Paper 38. The earliest electromagnetic instruments, by Robert A. Chipman.
Paper 39. Fulton’s “steam battery”: Blockship and catamaran, by Howard I. Chapelle.
Paper 40. History of Phosphorus, by Edward Farber.
Paper 41. Tunnel engineering—a museum treatment, by Robert M. Vogel.
Paper 42. The “Pioneer”: Light passenger locomotive of 1851, by John H. White.
Paper 43. History of the Division of Medical Sciences, by Sami Hamarneh.
Paper 44. Development of gravity pendulums in the 19th century, by Victor F. Lenzen and Robert P. Multhauf.

<<<Page: 127>>>

241. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 45-— 52, by members of the staff and others. Paper 45. Political campaign torches, by Herbert B. Collins. Paper 46. Bryan the campaigner, by Keith Melder. Paper 47. Presentation silver, by Margaret Klapthor. Paper 48. United States patents, 1790-1870: New uses for old ideas, by Peter C. Welsh. Paper 49. Floor coverings in 18th century America, by Rodris Roth. Paper 50. Dolley Madison and Benjamin Latrobe redecorate the White House, 1809-1811, by Margaret Klapthor. Paper 51. Red Cross ambulance of 1898, by Herbert B. Collins. Paper 52. White House china of the Lincoln Administration, by Margaret Klapthor. Paper 53. Excavations at Tutter’s Neck in James City County, Virginia, 1960-1961, by Ivor Noél Hume. Paper 54. Excavations at Clay Bank in Gloucester County, Virginia, 1962— 1963, by Ivor Noél Hume. 242. Tanning in the United States to 1850: A brief history, by Peter C. Welsh. 243. Lacebugs of the world: Catalog of the family Tingidae (Hemiptera), by C. J. Drake and Florence Ruhoff.
Publications reported by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 253. These, listed on pages 118 to 129, were distributed as follows:
PubliPubliDepartment cations | Department cations PNMANROOONOPAY 5 Go os 2 0 60 bo 6 0 30 | Science and Technology ....... 13 LOO LY os fens la ve ese on awl guia GP Civil! HEbiStonyi cee tices Oe 21 IBOLT ee oe vagleseser tod de ee eee ete theo 54] Arts and Manufactures ....... 8 Mineral Sciences. ........... 2|Armed Forces History ........ a LEAUKG COUR ON o'uolo 6 oo gio 8 Gare 610 13 TDINOUNOIOAY 5560.66.56 60.0 0 00 ¢ 38 TOA. jel owes hkueoe, SO ee
Publications of the United States National Museum July 1963 through June 1964
The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 1968. Pp. viii+226, illustr., January 23, 1964.
226. Checklist of the birds of Thailand, by Herbert G. Deignan, Pp. x+2638, 1 fig., December 31, 1963.
227, part 1. Marine polychaete worms of the New England region: 1. Families Aphroditidae through Trochochaetidae, by Marian H. Pettibone. Pp. v+3856, 83 figs., November 5, 1963.
234. Cephalopods of the Philippine Islands, by Gilbert L. Voss. Pp. v-+180, 4 pls., 36 figs., August 27, 1963.
236. Free-living Copepoda from Ifaluk Atoll in the Caroline Islands with notes on related species, by Willem Vervoort. Pp. ix-+481, 151 figs., June 30, 1964.

<<<Page: 128>>>

244. Bagworm moths of the Western Hemisphere (Lepidoptera: Psychidae), by Donald R. Davis. Pp. v-+233, 12 maps, 385 figs., June 1, 1964.
FroM VOLUME 32
Part 4. The genus Dussia (Leguminosae), by Velva E. Rudd. Pp. iii+-247-277, 11 figs., November 4, 1963.
FrRoM VOLUME 34
Part 2. The woods and flora of the Florida Keys: Capparaceae, by William L. Stern, George K. Brizicky, and Francisco N. Tamolang. Pp. 25-48, 7 pls., November 4, 1963.
Part 38. The Lichen family Graphidaceae in Mexico, by Michael Wirth and Mason E. Hale, Jr. Pp. 63-119, 82 figs., December 6, 1963.
Part 1. A revision of Trichantha (Gesneriaceae), by Conrad V. Morton. Pp. 1-27, October 9, 1963.
FroM VOLUME 115
No. 3476. Additional information on the morphology of an embryo whale shark, by J. A. F. Garrick. Pp. 1-7, 4 pls., February 28, 1964.
No. 3477. Notes on new and old species of Alticinae (Coleoptera) from the West Indies, by Doris H. Blake. Pp. 9-29, 25 figs., February 28, 1964.
No. 3478. Asteroidea of the Blue Dolphin expeditions to Labrador, by E. H. Grainger. Pp. 31-46, 4 figs., February 28, 1964.
No. 3479. Moths of the genus Rhabdatomis Dyar (Arctiidae: Lithosiinae), by William D. Field. Pp. 47-60, 6 pls. (33 figs.), February 28, 1964.
No. 3480. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, III. Restriction of Gonionota melobaphes Walsingham with descriptions of new species (Lepidoptera : Oecophoridae), by J. F. Gates Clarke. Pp. 61-83, 3 pls. (1 color), 7 figs., March 17, 1964.
No. 3481. Chironomid midges of California. II. Tanypodinae, Podonominae, and Diamesinae, by James H. Sublette, Pp. 85-135, 7 figs., February 28, 1964.
No. 3482. Caligoid copepods (Crustacea) of the Hawaiian Islands: parasitic on fishes of the family Acanthuridae, by Alan G. Lewis. Pp. 137-244, 24 figs., February 28, 1964.
No. 3483. Notes on Aradidae in the U.S. National Museum. III. Subfamily Mezirinae (Hemiptera), by Nicholas A. Kormilev. Pp. 245-258, 7 figs., February 28, 1964.
No. 3484. A generic revision of the leafhopper subfamily Neocoelidiinae (Homoptera: Cicadellidae), by James P. Kramer. Pp. 259-287, 114 figs., March 17, 1964.
No. 3485. A review of the North American moths of the family Walshiidae (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea), by Ronald W. Hodges. Pp. 289-329, 66 figs., March 17, 1964.
No. 5486. American species of the lacebug genus Acalypta (Hemiptera : Tingidae), by Carl J. Drake and John D. Lattin. Pp. 331-345, 15 pls., December 31, 1963.
No. 3487. The caligid copepod genus Dentigryps (Crustacea: Caligoida), by Alan G. Lewis. Pp. 347-880, 13 figs., March 17, 1964.
No. 3488. A new Brazilian moth of the genus Gonioterma with notes on related species (Lepidoptera : Stenomidae), by W. Donald Duckworth. Pp. 381-389, 3 figs., March 17, 1964.

<<<Page: 129>>>

No. 3489. Seven new amphipods from the west coast of North America with notes
on some unusual species, by Ciarence R. Shoemaker.
March 17, 1964.
Pp. 391-429, 15 figs.,
No. 3490. Shrimps of the genus Betaews on the Pacific coast of North America with
descriptions of three new species, by Josephine F. L. Hart.
2 pls., 80 figs., February 28, 1964.
Pp. 431-466,
No. 3491. Notes on some nearctic Psychomyiidae with special reference to their
larvae (Trichoptera), by Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
28, 1964.
Pp. 467-481, 5 figs., February
Publication by Members of the Staff of the United States National Museum
July 1963 through June 1964
Alvarez Lépez, Enrique, and Cuatrecasas, José. El género Theobroma en la “Flora Peruviana et Shilensis” de Ruiz y Pavon. Ciencia, Mexico, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 85-92, 2 pls., May..1968.
Angel, J. Lawrence. The reaction area of the femoral neck. Clinical Orthopaedics, vol. 32, pp. 1380-142, 1964.
Becklund, Willard W. Lamanema chavesi gen. n., sp. n. and Nematodirus lamae sp. n. (Nematoda: Trichostrongylidae) from the alpaca, Lama pacos, and the vicuna, Vicugna vicugna, in Peru. Journ. Parasitol., vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 1023-1027, 14 figs., December 1963.
Bedini, Silvio A. The scent of time. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soe., vol. 58, part 5, pp. 1-51, 45 illus., August 1963.
The role of automata in the his-
tory of technology. Tech. and Cult.
vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 9-42, 18 illus., winter
1964.
Galileo Galilei and time measurement. Physis, vol. 5, fase. 2, pp. 145—165, 5 illus., 1963.
Holy smoke, the Oriental fire clocks. New Scientist, vol. 21, no. 880, pp. 5387-539, 6 February 27, 1964.
illus.,
Seventeenth century Italian compound microscopes. Physis, vol. 5, fase. 4, pp. 883-422, 20 illus., 1965.
Thomas Jefferson, clock designer. Proce. Philos. Soc., no. 108, part 3, pp. 3-37, 15 illus., June 28, 1964.
The Dentzel brothers of Ulm. Physis, vol. 6, fase. 1, pp. 12-23, 9 illus., 1964.
La Clessidra cilindrica a scompartimenti. Clessidra, Anno XIX, no. 6, pp. 29-35, 8 illus., June 1963, part 2 of 4; no. 7, pp. 15-22, 12 illus., July 1963, part 3 of 4; no. 8, pp. 21-26, 8 illus., August 1963, part 4 of 4.
Blake, Doris H. Notes on new and old species of Alticinae (Coleoptera) from the West Indies. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3477, 25 figs., pp. 9-
Proc.
29, February 1964. Bowman, Thomas E. An _ arostrate population of the copepod Acartia
lilljeborgii Giesbrecht (Calanoida: from St. Lucia, West
Crustaceana, vol. 7, no.
Acartiidae ) Indies. 2, 1964.
, Meyers, Caldwell, D., and Hicks,
Steacy D. Notes on associations be-
tween hyperiid amphipods and medusae in Chesapeake and Narragansett Bays and the Niantic River. Chesapeake Sci., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 141— 146, 2 figs., 19638.

<<<Page: 130>>>

Bunting, George S., and Nicolson, Dan H. The Alocasia plumbea confusion. Baileya, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 142-146, December 1963.
Campbell, John M. Arctic. Current research. Jn American Antiquity, vol. 29, no. 2, p. 256, October 1968; no. 4, pp. 535-539, April 1964.
Ancient Alaska and Paleolithic Europe. Jn Karly man in the western American Arctic. Anthrop. Pap. Univ. Alaska, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 29-49, 1963.
Carriker, M. A., Jr. On some Mallophaga from Trinidad, W.I. and British Guiana in the collections of the British Museum (Natural History). Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 13, vol. 5, pp. 449-483, 57 figs., March 1963.
New and little known Mallo-
phaga from Venezuelan birds (part
II). Mem. Soe. Cienc. Nat. La Salle,
vol. 23, no. 64, pp. 5-42, 10 pls., April
1963.
Neotropical Mallophaga (Insecta) Miscellany No. 18. Rey. Brasileira Biol., vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 293-316, 32 figs., October 1963.
Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. Art in coinage. The Numismatist, vol. 76, no. 12, pp. 1635-1638, December 1963.
Mottoes on coins and their significance. Journ. Middle Atlantic Numismatie Assoe., vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 7-11, 1964.
Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. New quarter-shekel of the first Jewish war against the Romans. Amer, Journ. Arch., vol. 68, p. 193, 1964.
A few thoughts about numis-
matics. Journ. Middle Atlantic Nu-
mismatic Assoe., vol. 7, pp. 4-5, 1963.
Genuine or false? The applica-
tion of X-ray fluorescence analysis in
the authentication of coins. Journ.
Middle Atlantic Numismatic Assoc.,
vol. 7, pp. 16-17, 1963.
From barter to banking.
ing, vol. 56, p. 194, 1968.
Hall of Monetary History and
Medallic Art, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, Washington, D. C. Museum,
vol. 15, pp. 191-194, illustrated with
French translation, pp. 194-196, 1962.
Bank-
Clarke, J. F. Gates. Butterflies. Golden Press, New York, pp. 1-68, 187 figs., October 1963.
—-Neotropical Microlepidoptera, Ill. Restriction of Gonionota melobaphes Walsingham with descriptions of new species (Lepidoptera: Oecophoridae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3480, pp. 61-83, 3 pls., 7 figs., March 1964.
Clarke, Roy S., Jr. Paul EF.)
Cochran, Doris M., and Goin, Coleman J. Two new genera of leptodactylid frogs from Colombia. Proc. California Acad. Sci., vol. 31, no. 17, pp. 499505, 2 figs., December 1963.
Cooper, Grace Rogers. Watkins Mill revisited. Mus. News, vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 11-15, September 1963.
James Hargreaves. HEneyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 11, p. 102, 1964.
Cowan, R. S. Correct name of the powder-puff tree. Baileya, vol. 11, pp. 94— 98, September 1963.
Crabill, Ralph E., Jr. A preliminary review of Zelanophilus with description of a new species. Psyche, vol. 70, no. 3, pp. 164-169, September 1963.
A. new interpretation and rede-
seription of a bizarre New Zealand
ecentipede, Australiophilus ferrugi-
neus (Hutton). Ent. News, vol. 74,
no. 10, pp. 265-274, December 1963.
On the true nature of Schizo-
taenia with notes on contingent mat-
ters. Ent. News, vol. 75, no. 2, pp.
33-42, February 1964.
A preliminary review of J/aoriella, with description of a new species from the Chatham Islands. Ent. News, vol. 75, no. 4, pp. 85-97, April 1964.
Crocker, William H. Extramarital sexual practices of the Ramkokamekra-Canela Indians: an analysis of socio-cultural factors. In Beitriige zur Volkerkunde Stidamerikas, Festgabe fiir Herbert Baldus zum 65 Geburtstag, edit. Hans Becher, Volkerkundliche Abhandlungen, Band I, Des Niedersichsischen Landesmuseums
(See Desautels,

<<<Page: 131>>>

Abteilung fiir V6lkerkunde, Hann-
over, Germany, pp. 25-35, 1964.
Ethnology : South America. Handbook of Latin American Studies, No. 25 (1962), Univ. of Florida Press, pp. 40-50, 1963.
Cuatrecasas, José. Una impresién personal de Paul Standley. Jn L. O. Williams, Homage to Standley, pp. 88, 89, 1963.
(See Alvarez Lépez, Enrique)
Davis, D. R. Bagworm moths of the Western Hemisphere (Lepidoptera : Psychidae). U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 244, 233 pp., 12 maps, 385 figs., June 1964.
Deignan, Herbert G. Checklist of the
Birds of Thailand, U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 226, 263 pp., 1963. ——. The Timaliinae and allies. In
Peters’ Check-List of Birds of the
World, vol. X, pp. 240-442, 1964.
A new race of the Alpine Accen-
tor, Prunella collaris from Formosa.
Bull. Brit, Orn. Club, vol. 84, pp. 39-
40, February 1964.
Birds in the tropical Pacific. Paper presented at the 10th Pacific Sci. Cong., 1961, Bishop Mus. Press, 1968.
— and Watson, George E. Birds taken by U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2 on Taiwan and its offshore islands, 1957-1962. U.S. Naval Med. Unit No. 2, 13 pp., October 1963.
Desautels, Paul E., and Clarke, Roy S., Jr. Re-examination of legrandite. Amer. Mineral., vol. 48, pp. 1258-1265, 1963.
Dobkin, Sheldon, and Manning, Raymond B. Osmoregulation in two species of Palaemonetes (Crustacea: Decapoda) from Florida. Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 149-157, fig. 1, 1964.
Dorr, J. A., and Kauffman, E. G. Rippled toroids from the Napoleon Sand-
Member (Mississippian) of Southern Michigan. Journ. Sedimen. Petrol., vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 751-758, September 19638.
Drake, C. J.
strider
stone
A new Neotropical water-
(Hemiptera : Gerridae).
Journ. Kansas Ent. Soe., vol. 36, pp. 93-95, 1 fig., April 1963.
New shorebugs from Central Africa (Hemiptera : Saldidae). Rey. Zool. Bot. Africa, vol. 67, pp. 1+4, March 1963.
New lacebugs from the Hastern
Hemisphere. Great Basin Naturalist, vol. 238, pp. 149-158, 5 figs., December 1963.
and Chapman, H. C. A new
genus and species of water-strider
from California (Hemiptera: Macro-
veliidae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 76, pp. 227-234, December
1963.
and Lattin, J. D. American species of the lacebug genus Acalypta (Hemiptera: Tingidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3486, pp. 331345, 15 pls., December 1963.
— and Livingstone, D. Two new species of lacebugs from India (Hemiptera: Tingidae). Great Basin Naturalist, vol. 24, pp. 27-380, March 1964.
Duckworth, W. D. A new Brazilian moth of the genus Gonioterma with notes on related species (Lepidoptera : Stenomidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3488, pp. 381-389, 3 figs., March 1964.
Dunkle, David H. Norman H. Boss . Soc. Vert. Paleont. News Bull. no. 69, p. 28, October 1963.
Activities of the Division of Vertebrate Paleontology. Soc. Vert. Paleont. News Bull. no. 70, p. 19, February 1964; no. 71, pp. 18-19, June 1964.
Emerson, K. C. A new species of Mallophaga from Malaya. Journ. Kansas Ent. Soc., vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 4-5, January 1964.
Two new species of Mallophaga Tasmania. Journ. Ent.
Queensland, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 80-81,
January 1964.
Checklist of the Mallophaga of
North America (North of Mexico),
Part I, Suborder Ischnocera, pp. 1-171
March 1964.
from Soe.

<<<Page: 132>>>

North America (North of Mexico), Part II, Suborder Amblycera, pp. 1-104 , April 1964.
A new species of Mallophaga
from the blackbilled cuckoo. Ent.
News, vol. 75, no. 3, pp. 69-71, March
1964.
and Stojanovich, C. J. Two new species of Mallophaga from Asia, Ent. News, vol. 74, no. 10, pp. 261-264, December 19638.
Ernst, Wallace R. The genera of Berberidaceae, Lardizabalaceae, and Menispermaceae in the southeastern United States. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 1-85, 2 figs., January 1964.
Evans, Clifferd. Lowland South America. In Prehistoric Man in the New World, edit. Jesse D. Jennings and Edward Norbeck. Published for William Marsh Rice University by
Checklist of the Mallophaga of | ——.
Plains Indians (signed article). Encyclopedia Americana, vol. 22, pp. 147-148, 1964.
Hyde, Richard H., and Barghoorn, Elso S. Morphological and paleobotanical _ Studies of the Nyssaceae, II. The fossil record. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol. 44, no. 3, pp. 328-376, July 1963.
——. A Shoreorylon and two other Tertiary woods from the Garo Hills, Assam. Palaeobotanist, vol. 11, pp. 115-121, 1962 .
Typification of Nyssa aquatica
L. Taxon, vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 129-132,
May 1964.
(See Stern, William L.)
Field, William D. Moths of the genus Khabdatomis Dyar (Arctiidae: Lithosiinae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3479, pp. 47-60, 6 pls. (33 figs.), February 1964.
Finn, Bernard S. Laplace and the speed of sound. ISIS, vol. 55, no. 179, pp. 7-19, March 1964.
University of Chicago Press, pp. 419-| Flint, Oliver S., Jr. The species of
450, 1964.
and Meggers, Betty J. (contribut-
ing editors) Archeology : South Amer-
ica (except Colombia and Venezuela). In Handbook of Latin American Studies, No. 25, Univ. of Florida
Press, pp. 26-34, 1963.
(See Meggers, Betty.)
Ewers, John C. Blackfoot Indians (signed article). Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 3, pp. 748-744. 1963.
Blackfoot Indian Pipes and
Pipemaking. Bur. Amer. Ethnol.
Bull. 186, Anthrop. Pap. No. 64, pp.
29-60, pls. 20-27, 1963.
George Catlin, Carl Bodmer,
Plains Indian Drawing and Painting.
In Catlin-Bodmer-Miller Exhibition
Catalog, pp. 8-10, 12-15, 32-33. Illus.
Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, Nebras-
ka, 1963.
Iroquois Indians in the Far
West. Montana, The Magazine of
Western History, vol. XIII, no. 2, pp.
2-10, 9 pls., 1963.
Backstage at the Smithsonian.
Civil Service Journ., vol. 4, no. 4, pp.
14-15, 6 pls., April-June 1964.
744-993—64 9
Limnephilus from Central America and Haiti. Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 65, pp. 211-213, 3 figs., September 1963.
The Odonata collection of the
United States National Museum,
Smithsonian Institution. Selysia, vol.
1, no. 2, pp. 1, 4-5, November 1963.
New species and new state rec-
ords of Sialis (Neuroptera: Sialidae).
Ent. News, vol. 85, pp. 9-13, 11 figs.,
January 1964.
Notes on some Nearctie Psycho-
myiidae with special reference to
their larvae (Trichoptera). Proce.
U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3491, pp.
467-481, 5 figs., February 1964.
Two species of Limnephilidae new to North America (Trichoptera). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 66, p. 60, March 1964.
Friedmann, Herbert. Science museums in retrospect and prospect. Western Mus. Quart., vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 1-5.
The western foundation of ver-
tebrate zoology. Los Angeles Co.
Mus. Alliance Quart., vol. 2, no. 1, pp.
8-9.

<<<Page: 133>>>

Morphological data on two sibling species of small honey-guides. Los Angeles Co. Mus. Contr. Sci., no.
79, pp. 1-5.
— —. Symposium on ‘The Curator’; Introduction. Curator, vol. 4, pp. 280-281.
Gardner, Paul V. Glass at the Smithsonian Institution. Jn Clubwoman, December 1963.
Great glass from American collections. Jn Antiques Mag., February 1964.
Garrick, J. A. F. Additional information on the morphology of an embryo whale shark. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3476, pp. 1-7, 4 pls., February 1964.
——, Backus, Richard H., and Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. Carcharhinus floridanus, the silky shark, a synonym of C. falciformis. Copeia, no. 2, pp. 1-8, 1964.
and Schultz, Leonard P. A guide to the kinds of potentially dangerous sharks. Jn Sharks and Survival, D.C. Heath and Co., Boston, pp. 3-60, figs. 1-33, February 1964.
Gazin, C. Lewis. Paleocene mammals from the Denver Basin, Colorado. Rocky Mountain Assoc. of Geologists Guidebook on Geology of the northern Denver Basin and adjacent uplifts, 1963 Field Conf., pp. 167-169, 2 figs. 1963.
Activities of the Division of Vertebrate Paleontology. Soc. Vert. Paleont. News Bull. No. 69, pp. 12-18, October 1963.
Gibbs, Robert H., Jr.
Cyprinid fishes of the subgenus
Cyprinella of Notropis. The Notropis
whipplei-analostanus-chloristius com-
plex. Copeia, no. 3, pp. 511-528, 1963.
(See Garrick, J. A. F.)
Gibson, Gordon D. Herero. Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. 11, p. 429, 1964.
Goin, Coleman J. (See Cochran, Doris M.)
Hale, Mason E., Jr. The chemical strains of Usnea strigosa. The Bryologist, vol. 65, no. 4, pp. 291-294, 1962.
——. Populations of chemical strains in the lichen Cetraria ciliaris. Brittonia, vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 126-133, 1963.
——, The systematic position of Parmelia albaita Wils. The Bryologist, vol. 66, no. 2, pp. 71-74, 1963.
(See Wirth, Michael)
Hamarneh, Sami K. The first recorded appeal for unification of weight and measure standards in Arabie medicine. Physis, vol. 5, fase. 3, pp. 230—248, 1963.
—— and Sonnedecker, Glenn. A pharmaceutical view of Abulcasis alZahrawi in moorish Spain, with special reference to the Adhan, Brill, Leiden. Pp. xii.+176, 17 figs., 1963.
Handley, Charles O., Jr., and Mondolfi, Edgardo. A new species of fish-eating rat, Ichthyomys, from Venezuela (Rodentia, Cricetidae). Acta Biol. Venezuelica, vol. 3, art. 26, pp. 417-419, November 1963.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Walton Margaret. Four new species of the genus Donnaldsoncythere (Ostracoda, Entocytheridae) from Virginia with a key to the species of the genus. Trans. Amer. Micros. Soe., vol. 82, no 4, pp. 363-370, 26 figs.
Holland, C. G. Two strata cuts in the large Hirsh Mound—1962. Quart. Bull. Arch. Soc. Virginia, vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 12-19, September 1963.
— and O’Ryan, William D., Jr. The Octonia Rockshelter, Greene County, Virginia. Quart. Bull. Arch. Soe. Virginia, vol. 18, no. 4, part 1, pp. 66— 75, June 1964.
Holthuis, L. B., and Manning, Raymond B. Proposed use of the plenary powers (a) to designate a type-species for the genera Pseudosquilla Dana, 1852, and Gonodactylus Berthold, 1827, and (b) for the suppression of the generic name Smerdis Leach, 1817 (Crustacea, Stomatopoda). Bull. Zool. Nomencl., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 187-148, 1964.
Hoover, Cynthia A. The reason for historical instruments. The Amer. Musie Teacher, vol. 18, no. 15, pp. 10-11, September-October 1963.

<<<Page: 134>>>

Hoyme, Lucile E. Science fair projects | Kauffman, E.G. Saudi Arabia’s desert
in human biology. SIL—408, 14 pp., 1964.
Hubbs, C. L., Schultz, Leonard P., Springer, Victor G., and Randall, John E. Comments on the proposed rejection of the type designations of Jordan and Evermann 1896-1900 and 1896. Bull. Zool. Nomencl., vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 257-259, 19638.
Humphrey, Philip S., and Clark, George A., Jr. The anatomy of waterfowl. In J. Delacour, The waterfowl of the world, vol. 4, pp. 167-232. Country Life Ltd., London, 1964.
— and Parkes, Kenneth C. Comments on the study of plumage suceession. Auk, vol. 80, pp. 496-503, October 1963.
—— and Parkes, Kenneth C. Plumages and systematics of the whistling heron (Syrigma sibilatriv). Proce. 13th Internat. Ornith. Cong., pp. 84— 90, 1963.
Jackson, Melvin H. The Labrador landfall of John Cabot; the 1497 voyage reconsidered. The Canadian Hist. Reyv., vol. 44, no. 2, 2 maps, pp. 122141, June 1963.
—. The defense of the cutter Hagle, a new view on Negro Head. United States Coast Guard Academy Alumni Bull., vol. XXVI, no. 2, 5 figs., pp. 151166, March—April 1964.
Kainen, Jacob. In Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1963: Silk Screen Printing, vol. 20, p. 671c; Sepia, vol. 20, p. 334b.
——. Book review of Geoffrey Lapage’s Art and the Scientist, John Wright and Sons Ltd., Bristol. Isis, vol. 54, no. 177, pp. 411-412, 1963.
In Encyclopedia International, 1963-64: Drypoint, vol. 6, pp. 1311382; Engraving, vol. 6, pp. 482-484; Lithography, vol. 11, pp. 26-27.
Kanazawa, Robert H. Two new species of ophichthid eels from the western Atlantic. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 76, pp. 281-288, figs. 1-3, pl. 1, December 31, 1963.
of fossils. Shells and their Neigh-
bors, no. 22, April 1964.
(See Dorr, J. A.)
Kier, Porter M. Tertiary echinoids
_from the Caloosahatchee and Tamiami Formations of Florida. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 145, no. 5, 63 pp., August 1963.
Klapthor, Margaret B. The Dress of Mrs. John F. Kennedy. (Suppl., Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House), 5 pp., Smithsonian Institution, 1963.
A First Lady and a New Frontier 1800. Historie Preservation, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 88-93, 1963.
Lundeberg, Philip K. The German naval critique of the U-boat campaign, 1915-1918. Military Affairs, vol. 27, no. 3, pp. 105-118, fall 1963.
—. The battle of the Atlantic. In C. W. Nimitz, H. H. Adams, and E. B. Potter, eds., Triumph in the Atlantic. Prentice Hall, ch. 3, pp. 69-101, 1964.
Maguire, Bassett, and Smith, Lyman B. Xyridales. In Bassett Maguire, John J. Wurdack, and collaborators, Botany of the Guayana Highland—Part V. Mem. New York Bot. Gard., vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 7-387, 22 figs., 1964.
Malin, Marilyn H. (See Schultz, Leonard P.) Manning, Raymond B. Preliminary
revision of the genera Pseudosquilla and Lysiosquilla, with descriptions of six new genera (Crustacea: Stomatopoda). Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 308-328, 1963.
——. Notes on the embryology of the stomatopod crustacean, Gonodactylus oerstediti Hansen. Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 138, no. 3, pp. 422-482, 1963.
——. Hemisquilla ensigera (Owen, 1832) an earlier name for H. bigelowi (Rathbun, 1910) (Stomatopoda). Crustaceana, vol. 5, pt. 4, pp. 315-317, 1963.
—— and Provenzano, Anthony J., Jr. Studies on development of stomatopod Crustacea. I. Early larval stages

<<<Page: 135>>>

of Gonodactylus oerstedii Hansen. Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 467-487, figs. 1-8, 1963.
A new west American species of Pseudosquilla (Stomatopoda). Crustaceana, vol. 6, part 4, pp. 303-309, 1964.
(See Dobkin, Sheldon)
(See Holthuis, L. B.)
McCall, Francis J. Homestead Act commemorative issue. The Bureau Specialist, vol. 34, no. 8, pp. 227-230, August 1963.
McClure, F. A. Index nominum genericorum Bambusoidearum. Internat. Assoe. for Plant Taxonomy. 1963. (Cards covering the typification and basionyms of 87 generic names pertaining to the Bambusoideae. )
Bambusoideae. Jn Bassett Ma-
guire, John J. Wurdack, and colla-
borators, Botany of the Guayana
Highland—Part V. Mem. New York
Bot. Gard., vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 1-6, 1964.
A new feature in bamboo rhizome
anatomy. Rhodora, vol. 65, pp. 134-
136, 1968.
A neglected Mexican species of Arundinaria. Phytologia, vol. 10, pp. 162-163, April 1964.
Meggers, Betty. North and South American cultural connections and convergences. Jn Prehistoric Man in the New World, edit. Jesse D. Jennings and Edward Norbeck. Published for William Marsh Rice Univ. by Univ. of Chicago Press, pp. 511— 526, 1964.
— and Evans, Clifford. Genealogical and demographic information on the Wai Wai of British Guiana. In Beitriage zur Volkerkunde Siidamerikas, Festgabe fur Herbert Baldus zum 65 Geburtstag, edit. Hans Becher. Volkerkundliche Abhandlungen, Band I, Des Niedersiichsischen JLandesmuseums Abteilung fur Volkerkunde, Hannover, Germany, pp. 199-207, 1964.
(See Evans, Clifford)
Metcalf, George S. Small sites on and about Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, Garrison Reservoir, North Da-
kota. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 185, River Basin Surv. Pap. No. 26, pp. 1-56, 1968.
Star Village: A fortified historic Arikara site in Mercer County, North Dakota. Bur. Amer. Hthnol. Bull. 185, River Basin Surv. Pap. No. 27, pp. 57122, 1963.
Miller, J. Jefferson, II. The designs for the Washington Monument in Baltimore. Journ. Soe. Architect. Hist., vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 19-28, Mareh 1964.
Morrison, Joseph P. E. Notes on American Siphonaria. Amer. Malacological Union Ann. Rep. for 1968, Bull. 30, pp. 7-9, December 1963.
Notes on American Melampidae.
Nautilus, vol. 77, no. 4, pp. 119-121,
April 1964.
Formation of an epiphragm and true aestivation in Melampidae. Nautilus, vol. 77, no. 4, pp. 189-140, April 1964.
Morton, C. V. Some west Indian species of Thelypteris. Amer. Fern. Journ., vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 57-70, June 1963.
Observations on cultivated ferns,
VII. The mother ferns. Amer. Fern
Journ., vol. 58, no. 2, pp. 81-84, June
1963.
The classification of Thelypteris. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 149-154, December 1963.
A revision of Trichantha (Ges-
neriaceae). Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb.,
vol. 88, part 1, pp. 1-27, 1963.
Paul C. Standley and his work as revealed through his letters. Jn L. O. Williams, Homage to Standley, pp. 7-22, 1963.
Muesebeck, C. F. W. Six new reared species of Bracon (Hymenoptera: Braconidae). Hnt. News, vol. 74, pp. 157-165, June 1963.
A new Hawaiian Opius from ‘a
leaf-mining pest of beans (Hymen-
optera: Braconidae). Proce. Hawaiian
Ent. Soec., vol. 18, pp. 289-290, July
1968.
oe |
Host relationships of the Euphorini (Hymenoptera: Braconidae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 65, p. 806, December 1963.

<<<Page: 136>>>

A platygasterid parasite of certain wasp larvae (Hymenoptera: Proctotrupoidea, Platygasteridae). Beitr. Ent., vol. 13, pp. 391-394, 19638.
Nicolson, Dan H. Proposal to conserve the generic name Alocasia (Schott) G. Don. Taxon, vol. 12, no. 5, pp. 208, 209, June 1963.
(See Bunting, George 8.)
Pearce, John N., Pearce, Lorraine W., and Smith, Robert C. The Meeks family of cabinetmakers. Antiques, vol. 85, no. 4, pp. 414-420, April 1964.
Peterson, Mendel L. Additional notes on ordnance materials recovered from an early seventeenth-century shipwreck site. Mil. Coll. and Hist., vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 89-90, fall 1963.
Forms of New World treasure.
The Numismatist, vol. 77, pp. 5-18,
January 1964.
The condition of materials found in salt water. Diving into the past, pp. 61-65, 1964.
Pettibone, Marian H. Revision of some genera of polychaete worms of the family Spionidae, including the description of a new species of Scolelepis. Proce. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 76, pp. 89-104, 2 figs., 1963.
Marine polychaete worms of the New England region. I. Families Aphroditidae through ‘'Trochochaetidae. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 227, part 1, 356 pp., 83 figs., 1963.
Provenzano, Anthony J., Jr. ning, Raymond B.)
Ray, Clayton E. A new capromyid rodent from the Quaternary of Hispaniola. Mus. Comp. Zool. Breviora, no. 203, pp. 1-4, 1964.
The taxonomic status of Hep-
tazodon and dental ontogeny in Elas-
modontomys and Amblyrhiza (Rodentia: Caviomorpha). Bull. Mus. Comp.
Zool., vol. 131, no. 5, pp. 107-127, 1964.
Tapirus copei in the Pleistocene
of Florida. Quart. Journ. Florida
Acad. Sci., vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 59-66,
1 pl., March 1964.
The Jaguarundi in the Quater-
nary of Florida. Journ. Mammalogy,
(See Man-
vol. 45, no. 2, pp. 880-382, 1 fig., May 1964.
——. and Gut, H. J. The Pleistocene vertebrate fauna of Reddick, Florida. Quart. Journ. Florida Acad. Sci., vol.
26 , no. 4, pp. 315-328, 1964.
——, Olsen, S. J., and Gut, H. J. Three mammals new to the Pleistocene fauna of Florida, and a reconsideration of five earlier records. Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 44, no. 3, pp. 373— 395, 1963.
Rehder, Harald A. To Tahiti for Mollusks. Hawaiian Shell News, vol. 12, no. 5, pp. 4-5, map, March 1964.
Notes on Hawaiian Muricidae.
Hawaiian Shell News, vol. 12, no. 6,
pp. 4-5, fig., April 1964.
Marine mollusks of Polynesia— A research project. Hawaiian Shell News, vol. 12, no. 7, pp. 6-7, May 1964.
Ripley, S. Dillon, and Watson, George E. A new peregrine falcon from the Cape Verde Islands, eastern Atlantic Ocean, Yale Peabody Mus. Postilla no. 77, 4 pp., November 1963.
Robinson, H. EK. The nomenclature and distribution of three species of Brachythecium. The Bryologist, vol. 66, no. 3, pp. 136-139, 1963.
Notes on three collections of
Bryum from Africa. Rey. Bryol.
Lichenol., vol. 32, fase. 14, pp. 212-
214, 1963.
Five bryophytes of interest from Chile. The Bryologist, vol. 67, no. 1, pp. 58-55, 1964.
Rosewater, Joseph. An effective anesthetic for giant clams and other mollusks. Turtox News, vol. 41, no. 12, pp. 300-302, 2 figs., December 1963.
Problems of species analogues in world Littorinidae. The American Malacological Union Ann. Rep. for 1963, Bull. 30, pp. 5-6, December 1963.
Rudd, Velva KE. The genus Dussia (Leguminosae). Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 32, part 4, pp. 247-277, 11 figs., November 1963.
Ruhoff, Florence A. A homonym in Temnostethus (Hemiptera: Anthoecoridae). Proc. Ent. Soe. Washington, vol. 65, p. 246, September 1963.

<<<Page: 137>>>

The proposal of a new name (Hemiptera: Hydrometridae). Proc. Ent. Soe. Washington, vol. 66, p. 32, March 1964.
Scheele, Carl H. The Mitsui donations to the Smithsonian Institution. Japanese Philately, vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 3-5, February 1964.
Schultz, Leonard P. Fishes of North and Middle America. Copeia, no. 1, p. 254, 1964.
—. Attacks by sharks as related to the activities of man. Jn sharks and Survival. D. C. Heath and Co., Boston, pp. 425-452, figs. 1-4, February 1964.
— and Malin, Marilyn H. A list of shark attacks for the world. In Sharks and Survival. D. C. Heath and Co., Boston, pp. 509-567, February 1964.
(See Garrick, J. A. F.)
(See Hubbs, Car! L.)
(See Smith, Hugh M.)
Setzer, Henry W. Directions for preserving mammals for museum study. SIL-380, 20 pp., July 1963.
Shetler, Stanwyn G. An annotated list of vascular plants from Cape Sabine, Alaska. Rhodora, vol. 65, no. 763, pp. 208-224, July-September 1963.
On the interpretation of Article
24 of the International Code. ‘Taxon,
vol. 12, no. 7, pp. 260-262, August—-} ——.
September 1963.
A checklist and key to the spe-
cies of Campanula native or com-
monly naturalized in North America.
Rhodora, vol. 65, no. 764, pp. 319-337,
October—December 1963.
Botany—A passing phase?
Amer. Inst. Biol. Sci. Bull., vol. 13, no.
6, pp. 28-25, December 1963.
Priority and the stabilization of names. Taxon, vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 7783, April 1964.
Smith, Hugh M., and Schultz, Leonard P. The genera of fishes and a classification of fishes by David Starr Jordan. Reprinted with a new foreword by George S. Myers and a comprehensive index by Hugh M. Smith
and Leonard P. Schultz. Stanford University Press, pp. 747-800, 19638. Smith, Lyman B. Vriesea soderstromii. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 52, 53, 1 fig., May—June 1963. Andre’s bromeliad collecting in Colombia and Ecuador. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 138, no. 5, pp. 106-114, 3 figs., September—October 1963. Man in a hurry. In L. O. Williams, Homage to Standley, pp. 27, 28, 1968.
Notes on Bromeliaceae, XX. Phytologia, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 242-261, 4 pls., October 1963.
——. Synopsis of American Velloziaceae, Supplement III. Phytologia, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 262-264, 1 pl., October 1963.
Aechmea nallyi. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 18, no. 6, pp. 124, 125, 1 fig., November-December 1968.
——. Bromeliadata of the month, no. 4: Deuterocohnia. Bromeliana (Greater New York Chapter of the Bromeliad Society), vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 2-4, 1 fig., February 1964,
Bromeliaceae. Jn Bassett Ma-
guire, John J. Wurdack, and collabo-
rators, Botany of the Guayana Highland—Part V., Mem. New York Bot.
Gard., vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 37-41, figs.
23-28, 1964.
Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXI.
Phytologia, vol. 10, no 1, pp. 1-55,
1 pl., March 1964.
and Downs, Robert J. Las especies Peruanas de la familia Xyridaceae. Publ. Mus. Hist. Nat. “Javier Prado,” ser. B, Bot., no. 15, pp. 1-18, pls. 1, 2, 1964.
—— and Reitz, Raulino. Aechmea bambusoides. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 14, no, 2, pp. 31, 32, 1 fig., March-April 1964.
and Steyermark, J. A. Bromeli-
aceae. Jn J. A. Steyermark, Botani-
cal novelties from upper Rio Pragua,
Hstado Bolivar, Venezuela—II. Bol.
Soe. Venezolana Ciene. Nat., vol. 25,
no. 106, pp. 50-58, 2 figs., December
19638.

<<<Page: 138>>>

(See Maguire, Bassett)
Snyder, T. E. The foundation of new termite colonies by supplemental reproductives of species of Reticulo-
—— and Eyde, Richard H. Fossil forests of Oct, Panama. Science, vol. 140, no. 3572, p. 1214, June 14, 1963.
termes. Symp. Genet. et Biol. Italica,| Stewart, T. D. Neanderthal scapulae
vol. 11, pp. 175-179, December 1963. Soderstrom, T. R., and Decker, H. F. Swallenia, a new name for the Cali-
fornian genus Hctosperma (Grami| ——.
neae). 19638.
Spangler, P. J. A description of the larva of Macrovatellus mexicanus Sharp (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae). The Coleopterists’ Bull., vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 97-100, December 1963.
Springer, Victor G. Two species of Indo-West Pacific Blenniid fishes erroneously described from the western Atlantic Ocean. Copeia, no. 2, pp. 452-454, June 14, 1963.
Die Unterwasserfauna der Mittelmeerkiisten (book review), Copeia, no. 1, p. 218, March 30, 1963.
— and John H. Finucane. The Afriean cichlid, Tilapia heudeloti Dumeril, in the commercial fish catch of Florida. Trans. Amer. Fish. Soc., vol. 92, no. 3, pp. 317-318, 1963.
(See Hubbs, Carl L.)
Squires, Donald F. Carbon 14 dating of the Fossil Dune Sequence, Lord Howe Island. Australian Journ. Sci., vol. 25, pp. 412-418, 1963.
Pinnacles on the Continental Shelf. Oceanus, vol. 9, pp. 20-21, 1963.
——. Madreporas rizangiidas, fosiles y vivientes de la Argentina. Neotropica, vol. 9, pp, 9-16, figs. 1-11, 1963.
Madrono, vol. 17, no. 2, p. 88,
Gaimard). New Zealand Oceanographic Inst., Mem. 20, 44 pp., 2 pls., 1964.
Stern, William L., Brizicky, George K., and Tamolang, Francisco N. The woods and flora of the Florida Keys: Capparaceae. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 34, part 2, pp. 25-43, November 1963.
Flabellum rubrum (Quoy and |——.
with special attention to the Shanidar Neanderthals from Iraq. Anthropos, vol. 57 (for 1962), pp. 779-800, 1963.
Human skeletal remains . The Archeolog, vol. 15, no. 1
(for 1963), pp. 44-53, pls. 13-18, 1964.
Skeletal remains of aboriginal dogs . The Archeolog, vol. 15, no. 1 (for 1963), pp. 54-58, 1964.
Swallen, Jason R. Two new species of Digitaria and Trichachne. Rhodora, vol. 65, no. 764, pp. 355-357, 1963.
Gramineae. Jn Forrest Shreve and Ira L. Wiggins, Vegetation and flora of the Sonoran Desert, vol. 1, pp. 287-298, March 1964.
Switzer, George. Thirty-eighth annual report on the diamond industry. Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, Philadelphia, Pa., 71 pp., 1963.
Van Beek, Gus W., and Mandaville, James P., Jr. A pre-Islamic copper hoe from northeastern Arabia. Antiquity, vol. 37, pp. 138-139, 1963.
Washburn, Wilcomb E. The great ‘autumnal madness: Political symbolism in mid-nineteenth-century America. Quart. Journ. Speech, vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 417-481, December 1963.
(Hditor). The Indian and the
White Man. Anchor Books, Double-
day and Company, 480 pp., 32 pls.,
1964.
A book to emulate. Virginia Quart. Reyv., vol. 40, no. 1, pp. 186-140, Winter 1964.
Natural light and the museum. In Life is a local story: A collection of talks concerning local history, historic sites, and history museums. Edit. Clement M. Silvestro, American Association for State and Local History, pp. 10-20, 1964.

<<<Page: 139>>>

——. The museum’s responsibility in adult education. Curator, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 83-38, April 1964.
Manuscripts and manufacts. The Amer. Archiv., vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 245-250, April 1964.
Watkins, C. Malcolm. Smithsonian preview. Antiques, vol. 85, no. 1, pp. 86-87, January 1964.
Watson, George E. A _ simultaneous meeting of the robin and the blue jay in one tree. Auk, vol. 80, pp. 377-378, 1963.
A second record of the Palearctic red-throated pipit from St. Lawrence Island, Bering Sea. Condor, vol. 65, p. 477, 1963.
Review of J. C. Welty’s The Life
of birds. Atlantic Naturalist, pp. 7-9, 1963.
——. The mechanism of feather replacement during natural molt.
Auk, vol. 80, pp. 486-495, October 1963.
serine birds on the islands of the
Agean Sea. 237 pp. -+ appendices
(219 pp.), 13 figs., Univ. Microfilms.
(See Ripley, S. Dillon)
(See Deignan, Herbert G.)
Wedel, Waldo R. The Great Plains. In Prehistoric Man in the New World, edit. Jesse D. Jennings and Edward Norbeck. Rice Univ. Semicentennial Publ., Univ. Chicago Press, pp. 193220, 1964.
Welsh, Peter C. A craft that resisted change: American tanning practices in 1850. Tech. and Cult., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 299-317, Summer 1963.
Wetmore, Alexander. An additional race of the pileated tinamou from Panama. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 76, p. 178, August 1963.
(Review) Birds of the World,
by Oliver L. Austin, Jr. In Expl.
Journ., vol. 41, no. 3, p. 52, September
1963.
An extinct rail from the Island of St. Helena. Ibis, vol. 103b, no. 3, pp. 379-881, pl. 9, September 1963.
Ecology and evolution of Pas-|——.
— —. American purple gallinule Porphyrula martinica (Linnaeus), life history (part). Jn Bannerman, D. A., The Birds of the British Isles, vol. 12, pp. 227-229, October 1963.
An early report of the cattle
egret in Colombia. Auk, vol. 80, no.
4, p. 547, October 1963.
Additions to records of birds known from the Republic of Panama. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 145, no. 6, pp. 1-11, December 1963.
—— and Borrero, H., J. I. Description of a race of the double-striped thickknee (Aves, family Burhinidae) from Colombia. Auk, vol. 81, no. 2, pp. 231-233, April 30, 1964.
and Bullis, Harvey R. Jr. The birds of Serrana Bank in the western Caribbean Sea. Condor, vol. 65, no. 4, p. 229, July 1963.
White, John H. The Centipede. Railway and Locomotive Hist. Soc., Bull. 109, pp. 11-15, 2 figs., October 1963.
The Janus: A locomotive’s history revised. Journ. Transport Hist., Univ. Leicester, England, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 175-181, 3 illus., May 1964.
Wirth, Michael, and Hale, Mason E., Jr. The lichen family Graphidaceae in Mexico. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 36, part 3, pp. 63-119, 82 figs., 1963.
Woodbury, Nathalie F. S. Paperbound books in anthropology and related fields in print (U.S8.A., Winter-Spring, 1963). Current Anthropology, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 889-402, October 1963.
Woodbury, Richard B. Social implications of prehistoric Arizona irrigation. Actes du VI° Congrés International des Sciences Anthropologiques et Ethnologiques (Paris 1960). Tome II—Ethnologie, I° vol., pp. 491-493, Musee de l’Homme, Paris, 1963.
Indian adaptations to arid envi-
ronments. Jn Aridity and Man: The
challenge of the arid lands in the
United States, edit. Carle Hodge,
Amer. Assoe. Advane. Sci., Publ. No.
74, pp. 55-85, Washington, 19638.

<<<Page: 140>>>

—— and Ressler, John Q. Effects of | Cienc. Nat., vol. 25, no. 106, pp. 54, 55, environment and cultural limitations December 1963. upon Hohokam agriculture, southern|———. In Mathews’ country. Gard. Arizona. In Civilizations in Desert| Journ. New York Bot. Gard., vol. 14, Lands, Univ. of Utah Anthrop. Pap., ae 1, ea 8 figs., January—Febno. 62, pp. 41-55, 1963. hae :
Wurdack, John J. An evaluation of the TOR ere Gp steed dae genus Poteranthera. Yieldiana: Bot4 RYE med BRA? Rea ;
February 1964. any, vol. 29, no. 9, pp. 585-541, 1 fig., ——. Melastomataceae. In Bassett
June 1963. Maguire, John J. Wurdack, and colMelastomataceae. In J. A. Steylaborators, The botany of the Guayermark, Botanical novelties from upana Highland—Part V. Mem. New per Rio Paragua, Estado Bolivar,) York Bot. Gard., vol. 10, no. 5, pp. Venezuela—II. Bol. Soc. Venezolana 135-186, 5 figs., 1964.

<<<Page: 141>>>

Donors to the National Collections
(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance
with law.)
A. G. Parser, Inc., New York, N.Y.: (Through Donald Parser) aquamarine from Minas Gerais, Brazil (2387523, exchange).
Abbott, Dr. R. Tucker (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Aberdeen Auto Parts, Aberdeen, Md.: (Through Vincent Mullin) 2 gasoline pumps, ca, 1922-23 (254113).
Abonnenc, Dr. E., Bondy, France: 2 moth flies from Africa (253902).
Abrasive Dressing Tool Co., Detroit, Mich.: (Through Sidney Krandall) lot of rough diamonds from Thailand (251818).
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. R. Tucker Abbott) 39 marine and fresh-water mollusks from Cook Islands, Hawaii, and New Caledonia (249482, 253078, exchanges) ; approximately 1,850 marine mollusks from Cocos-Keeling Atoll, Indian Ocean, and Phuket, Thailand, collected on the International Indian Ocean Expedition (251525, exchange); (through Dr. James H. Bohlke) 49 crayfishes and 3 shrimps (249191); (through C. W. Hart) 28 erustaceans, including types (250209, 250754, 251282).
Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R., Moscow, U.S.S.R.: V. L. Komarov Institute of Botany: 209 phanerogams ‘and 19 grasses (252839, exchange); (through Prof, F. Kh. Bakhteev) 87 wood specimens from the U.S.S.R. (249042, exchange) ; (through Dr. K. B. Zinovjeva) 5 tachinid flies from Russia (253551, exchange).
Ackerman, Louise, Huron, Ohio: Crocheted hanging and pattern, The Last Supper (251667).
Adams, Dr. David A. Carolina State Museum)
(See North
Adams, John, Baltimore, Md.: Rachet drill (253646).
Adamson, Col. and Mrs. Keith, Washington, D. C.: Portrait of Mrs. Adam-
son’s grandfather, Herman Haupt (252494). Adelaide, University of, Adelaide,
South Australia: (Through Prof. A. R. Alderman) 1 specimen each of the Artracoona and Pinnaroo, South Australian meteorites (252481, exchange).
Adolfo M., Brother, Cochabamba, Bolivia: 57 phanerogams, 20 grasses, 6 ferns, and 2 cryptogams from Bolivia (246920, 249479, 252115)
Agence Philatelique (See Burundi, Government of)
Agence Philatélique Haitienne (See Haiti, Government of).
Agostina, Dr. Getulio (See Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria)
Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, College Station, Tex.: 24 grasses from Mexico (248497); 82 grasses (249326, exchange); (through Dr. Louis S. Kornicker) 8 corals (249301).
Agriculture, U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.: Thatcher slide rule with metal support and mahogany case (252315). Agricultural Research Service: 404 phanerogams, 41 grasses, 38 ferns, and 2 eryptogams from worldwide localities (248661, 249324, 249534, 251270, 253224) ; (through Lyle T. Alexander) 2 laterite specimens from the Ivory Coast and Nigeria (249045) ; (through Dr. William H. Anderson) 135 land, marine, and fresh-water mollusks from worldwide localities and 49,972 miscellaneous insects (247889, 248495, 252258, 253907); (through Dr. Philip B. Dowden) 8 land and marine snails from the Azores, Grand Cayman, Guate

<<<Page: 142>>>

mala, and Italy (247215) ; (through Dr. J. J. Drea) 705 miscellaneous arthropods and 218 insects from the Mediterranean (252854, 253503) ; (through Dr. Ashley B. Gurney) 2,793 miscellaneous insects from Texas and Virginia (251237) ; (through Dr. R. W. Hodges) 25 lizards from Hgypt collected by Dr. Hodges (248474); (through Hdna Hoover) 65 branchiopods from Greenland (252527) ; (through Dr. Fred G. Meyer) 26 wood specimens from Hthiopia, 97 phanerogams, and 5 grasses (248657, 2490389) ; (through Dr. R. A. Roberts) 5 land snails from Texas (250946). Forest Service: 6 grasses from Louisiana, 8 phanerogams from Peru, and a _ swellograph (248662, 252830, 2538621). National Arboretum: 130 phanerogams, mostly types (249328).
Ahti, Dr. Teuvo (See Helsinki, University of)
Aitken, Dr. T. H. G. (See Trinidad Regional Virus Laboratory)
Ajax Manufacturing Co., Cleveland, Ohio: (Through Wayne N. Sacchini) sample forgings and set of forging dies (253948).
Akerman, Mr. and Mrs. Alex, Jr., Alexandria, Va.: Wooden medicine chest, ca. 1910 (252397).
Alabama, State of: Geological Survey: (Through Thomas A. Simpson) 2 metastrengite specimens from Coosa Co., Ala. (2499382).
Alabama, University of, Birmingham, Ala.: Medical Center: (Through Dr. Harrison R. Steeves III) 6 isopods and 11 barnacles (247047, 250882) ; 14 new isopods from Kentucky and West Virginia (253298).
Alaska, State of: Agricultural Experiment Station: (Through William W. Mitchell) phanerogam from Alaska (250262). Department of Fish and Game: (Through Guy C. Powell) shrimp and 3 crabs (241626).
Alaska, University of, College, Alaska: (Through Dr. Clyde F. Herreid Il) 8 boreal toads from Liard Hot Springs, B.C., Canada (249211).
Alayo D., Dr. Pastor, Marianao, Habana, Cuba: 14 wasps (250600).
Alberta, University of, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada: (Through Dr. R. E. Folinsbee) 551 grams of the Peace River, Alberta, Canada, meteorite (253219, exchange); (through Robin Leech) 15 ice bugs from British Columbia (252110, exchange).
Alderman, Prof. A. R. University of)
Alexander, Andrew S., Charleston, W. Va.: 239 communion tokens, mostly used in Scotland, 18th and 19th centuries (258096).
Alexander, Dr. C. P., Amherst, Mass. : 3,156 miscellaneous insects from North America (251610).
Alexander, Lyle T(See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
Alford, Joe B. (See Society of Petroleum Hngineers of AIME)
Alio, Mr. and Mrs. Constantin G.,
(See Adelaide,
Philadelphia, Pa.: Objects from an 18th-century gristmill in Newton Square (236256).
Allan, Greever (See Post Office Department)
Allen, Mrs. Edna Murray, Wilmington, Del.: Iron cooking pot from McPherson House (253153).
Allen, Dr. H. W., Moorestown, N.J.: 6 wasps from North America (249059).
Allen, Richard §S., Round Lake, N.Y.: 22 sections and parts of early bridges (254091).
Allen-Mitchell and Co., Washington, D.C.: (Through A. Steuart Mitchell) Howard wall clock (249270).
Allison, Lloyd, Durham, N.C.: Specimen of ferrimolybdite (253330).
Allred, Dr. Dorald M. (See Atomic Energy Commission)
Almodovar, Dr. Luis R. (See Puerto Rico, University of)
Amberson, J. M. Department of)
Amelinckx, Dr. S., Mol-Donk, Belgium: Cuprosklodowskite from Katanga, Congo (253392, exchange).
American Express Co., Washington, D.C.: (Through Stephen 8. Halsey) 5
(See Defense, U.S.

<<<Page: 143>>>

132 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM traveler’s checks and 2 credit cards issued by donor (252886).
American Museum of Natural History, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Roger L. Batten) 2 corals from the Tertiary of Alabama and Georgia (250411); (through Dr. Meredith L. Jones) 14 polychaete worms, paratypes (248174); 6 marine invertebrates (250560, exchange); (through Dr. Peter Wygodzinsky) 6 flies from Africa (253514).
American Oil Co. Chicago, Ill.: (Through J. C. Ducommun) memorabilia discovered by Wilson L. Humphreys pertaining to Dr. Robert E. Humphreys’ academic career (252300).
American Security and Trust Co. (See Rohrer, Josephine Arthur )
American Society Gem Counsellors, Boston, Mass.: (Through Dr. Meyer Browne) 2 Swiss watches (249859).
American Telephone and Telegraph Co., New York, N.Y.: (Through F. R. Kappel) 9 components from the Telstar satellite (247512).
American University, Washington, D.C.: (Through Prof. Robert Gates) 30 brachiopods from the Devonian of Michigan (251096, exchange).
Amor, Dr. Analia (See Universidad Nacional de La Plata)
Amorés, Prof. J. L. (See Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas)
Amsterdam, University of, Amsterdam, Netherlands: (Through Dr. J. H. Stock) 21 polychaete worms (250499).
Anaconda Co., Butte, Mont.: (Through William B. Renouard) Ingersoll-Rand rock drill, ca. 1910 (253250).
Anders, Dr. Edward (See Chicago, University of)
Anderson, Hon. Clinton P., Washington, D.C.: Pen used by President Lyndon B. Johnson to sign the legislation establishing the John F.. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts (252883). Anderson, David L. (See Oberlin College)
Anderson, Dr. Paul K. bia University)
(See Colum-
Anderson, Dr. R. H. Government of)
Anderson, Ray (See Anderson, Van)
Anderson, Van and Ray, Tarboro, N.C.: Tusk of extinct walrus collected in Edgecombe Co., N.C. (253558).
Anderson, Dr. William H. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
Andrews, A. Joseph, Washington, D.C.: Handwritten invitation on Executive Mansion stationery, 1892 (250074).
Angel, Jonathan S., Washington, D.C., and Bennett, Michael St. Cyr, Bethesda, Md.: Lamprey (248198).
Anonymous: Pocket knife (247917) ; 20 costume and accessory items, 20th century (249153) ; cross-peen hammer, ball-peen hammer, alligator-type wrench, and 3 scrapers (250541); bronze medal commemorating Detroit’s 250th birthday festival, 1951, by Rene P. Chambellan (252792).
Ansary, Dr. S. A., Dokki, Cairo, Egypt: 10 Foraminifera from a well core taken in the Jurassic, Western Desert of Egypt (252827).
Ansco, General Analine & Film Corp., Binghamton, N.Y.: (Through Philip Mikoda) model of Brady-type field photo wagon (250070).
Anthony, Mrs. Deforest, Washington, D.C.: 9 items of dress accessories, 19th century, and 2 napkins with pictorial design (252400).
Antiques Group, (Through Mrs. Chinese export (250969).
Appleby, Dr. James E. (See Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station)
Appleby, Comdr. Thomas (Ret.), Washington, D.C.: Operator’s Certifieate of Skill in Radiocommunication, 1911 (251545).
Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Ill.: (Through J. R. Farmakes) graphite blocks (250358).
Aristeguieta, Dr. Leandro Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria)
Arizona, University of, Tucson, Ariz.: (Through H. §. Hanson) “Olivine granite” from Brewster Co., Tex. (252164, exchange).
(See Australia,
Bethesda, Md.: Martin K. Worthy) porcelain platter
(See

<<<Page: 144>>>

Arizona State University, Tempe, Ariz.: (Through Dr. Mont A. Cazier) 75 legionary ants from North America (251463).
Arnett, Dr. Ross H., Jr., Washington, D.C.: 231 beetles from Peru (249425).
Arnoldo, Brother M., Curacao, Netherlands West Indies: 25 phanerogams from Bonaire, and Curacao, N.W.I. (248139, 250336).
Aron, Dr. William (See Washington, University of)
Arpad, Michael (See Powell, Mrs. Wellington; and Shulman, Dr. Hmanuel V.)
Arpels, Claude (See Van Cleef & Arpels, Inc.)
Arthur D. Little, Inc. (See Loyola University)
Artz, Hugh M., Boonsboro, Md.: Bag wagon, 1831, and log clamp, 19th century (249865, 251478).
Aslakson, Capt. Carl I, Bethesda, Md.: 2388 miscellaneous marine and land mollusks (250922).
Associazione Elettroteenica ed Elettronica Italiana, Milan, Italy, and Istituto Elettrotecnico Nazionale Galileo Ferraris, Turin, Italy: (Through Franco Tedeschi and Dr. Ing. Mario Loria) 4 reproductions of models constructed by Galileo Ferraris (254122).
Athearn, Herbert D., Cleveland, Tenn.: 15 new species of fresh-water mussel from Florida (252868).
Atkins, H. W., London, England: Bronze medal by Paul Vincze, commemorating Cecil H. King and 60 years seryice on the Daily Mirror (252331).
Atoda, Dr. Kenji (See Tohoku University )
Atomic Energy Commission, Washington, D.C.: (Through Dr. Dorald M. Allred) 1,144 ants from Nevada (249429, 249618) ; (through Dr. Lyman
Spitzer, Jr.) figure 8_ stellarator (251830). (See also Yameogo, Maurice)
Ault, Mrs. Leslie, Cranford, N.J.: 46 19th-century tools (250998).
Austin, Dr. O. L., Jr., Gainesville, Fla.: Bird skin (248322, exchange).
Austin, R. M. (See Nordberg Manufacturing Co.)
Australia, Government of: Australian Museum: (Through Dr. R. O. Chalmers) meteorite from Antarctica and 5 from New South Wales, Australia (248443, 254020, exchanges) ; (through Dr. J. W. Evans) 5 fishes from Australia (252513, exchange); (through Dr. Donald F. McMichael) marine bivalve mollusk (252473) ; (through Dr. A. B, Walkom) 14 marine mollusks from Australia, New Hebrides, and New Zealand (190898, exchange). Botanic Museum and Herbarium: Phanerogam and 24 grasses from Australia (253599, exchange) ; (through Dr. 8. L. Everist) 26 phanerogams and 50 grasses from Australia (250349, 251264, exchanges). Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics: (Through Dr. John Roberts) 7 brachiopods from the Carboniferous of Australia (251063, exchange). Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization: 562 phanerogams, 35 grasses, 83 ferns, and 16 eryptogams from New Guinea (249588, exchange) ; (through Dr. R. D. Hoogland) 814 phanerogams, 43 grasses, and 25 ferns mostly from New Guinea (252842, exchange) ; (through H. 8S. McKee) 92 phanerogams, 22 grasses, and 8 ferns from Guadaloupe, Puerto Rico and Trinidad (250113, 251446). Queensland Institute of Medical Research: (Through Dr. R. Domrow) 5 mites, including a holotype, and 4 slides from Australia (251594, 251878, 253919). Royal Botanic Gardens and National Herbarium: 58 phanerogams and 5 ferns from Australia (248652, exchange) ; (through Dr, R. H. Anderson) 54 phanerogams, 29 ferns, and 2 cryptogams from Australia (247705, 253057, exchanges). South Australian Museum: (Through Dr. G. F. Gross) marine water strider (250598).
Avis, Dwight E. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Axelrod, Dr. Herbert R., Jersey City, N.J.: 434 fishes and a fresh-water mollusk from Brazil and Peru (248498, 248991, 251920, 252019). (See also

<<<Page: 145>>>

Entel, Mac; Géry, Dr. Jacques R.; and Socolof, Ross)
Ayre, Katie May, Washington, D.C.: Woman’s cloak, slipper, embroidered searf, petticoat band, silver hairpin, and a hat pin, 18th and 19th centuries (247408).
Babcock & Wilcox Co., Washington, D.C.: (Through R. C. Dannettel, Jr.) model of a Wilcox boiler, 1856 (251001) ; (through Francis R. Russell) N.S. Savannah reactor and 4 models of reactor installations and demonstrations of the method of preparation of reactor fuel elements (249728, 253943).
Baccus, Dr. Howard P., Arlington, Va.: 2 specimens of serpentine from Israel (253601).
Baghdad, University of, Abu Ghraib, Iraq: (Through Dr. Fred A. Barkley) 55 phanerogams, 151 grasses, and 2 eryptogams from Iraq (248583); 87 phanerogams and 2 grasses from Iraq (250281, exchange).
Bahral, Lt. Col. David, Tel Aviv, Israel: 14 mollusks (253120, exchange).
Bailey, Prof. S. F., Davis, Calif.: Vial of thrips from Ecuador and North America (248832, exchange). (See also California, University of)
Bailey, W. F. (See Skelly Oil Co.)
Baker, Dr. Arthur A. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Baker, James H, Baxer, Oreg.: 424 caddis flies, stoneflies, lacewings and katydids from North America (251248, 251589).
Baker, Sid G., North Kamloops, B.C., Canada: Jamesonite from British Columbia and chalcodite from Longvale, Calif. (250783, 252478).
Bakhteev, Prof. F. Kh. (See Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)
Baldwin, Wayne J. (See California, University of)
Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corp., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Morgan White) 3 Pelton turbine buckets and a segment of a wheel with 5 buckets (252496).
Ball, Dr. George E., Edmonton, Alberta, Canada: 425 centipedes from Arizona, British Columbia, and Cali-
fornia, and 156 miscellaneous insects from Alaska (251235, 251593, 251612).
Ball, Dr. Gordon H. (See California, University of)
Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, Ind.: (Through Charles D. Wise) 185 crayfishes (250140).
Ballent, Joseph E., Tampa, Fla.: (Through Dr. Donald F. Squires) 7 eorals from the Tertiary of Tampa (248340).
Bank Melli Iran Sports Club, Tehran,
Iran: Plaque commemorating the American ascension on Mt. Everest (248399).
Banker, Paul, Woodlawn, Md.: 10
U.S. Marine Corps band uniform items, 1890-1913 (253324).
Banks, Dr. Harlan P. University )
Barbera, Mrs. Louise Mary H., District Heights, Md.: U.S. Navy band uniform, music books, and 2 medals (253613).
Barkley, Dr. Fred A., Abu Ghraib, Iraq: 100 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and a fern from Iraq (252806). (See also Baghdad, University of)
Barlow, F. D. (See Louisiana State University)
Barnaby, James, Short Hills, N.J.: Willis planimeter with attachment (252501).
Barnard, Dr. J. Laurens (See Beaudette Foundation for Biological Research)
Barnard, Logan W. (See Rocky Mountain Dental Products Co.)
Barnes, Robert, Judson, Ind.: 1-cent piece of Liberia, 1961 (252090).
Barr, Dr. Ralph A., Fresno, Calif.: Mosquito from North America (251461, exchange).
Barr, Dr. Thomas C., Jr., Lexington, Ky.: 219 miscellaneous beetles from North America, including 11 holotypes and 2 paratypes (250610, 253506, 253912, 253917).
Barron, Col. E. M., El Paso, Tex.: 15 minerals from various localities (251088, 253765).
(See Cornell

<<<Page: 146>>>

Barry, Charles K., Honolulu, Hawaii: 4 fishes from tropical western Pacific (248213).
Barry, Edward J., Richmond Heights, Mo.: Missouri World War I commemorative medal (248150).
Bartholomai, Dr. C. W. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Bartlett, Mrs. Andrew, Washington, D.C.: 4 accessories of dress, 20th century (250822).
Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 83 phanerogams, 3 grasses, 10 ferns, and 31 mosses from Ohio and West Virginia (249189, 2517738, 252098).
Bartsch, Dr. Elizabeth Parker, Lorton, Va.: 7,800 phanerogams, 120 grasses, 2,000 ferns, and 300 cryptogams from Iowa and Virginia collected by Dr. Paul Bartsch (249615).
Bashlow, Robert, New York, N.Y.: Obverse die used by J. J. Conway & Co. in striking 5-dollar goldpieces in 1861, and 3 restrikes in silver, goldine, and bronze (249848, 251161).
Basilewsky, Dr. P. (See Musée Royal de l’Afrique Centrale)
Baskin, Salem N. (deceased): (Through Mrs. Newton Minow) sampletype embroidered drawstring pocketbook, 19th century (250523).
Bassett, Preston R., Ridgefield, Conn. : Michelson rotating mirror and 9 glass blower’s tools (241017, 250972).
Batchelor Fund, Charles and Rosanna, Smithsonian Institution: Stamp of Bahawalpur and 1 of Newfoundland (251186).
Batham, Dr. E. J. (See Otago University)
Batson, Dr. W. T. (See South Carolina, University of)
Batten, Dr. Roger L. (See American Museum of Natural History)
Bayer, Dr. Frederick M. (See Miami, University of)
Beachum, Gary, Falls Church, Va.: World War I helmet (248354).
Beaman, Dr. John H. (See Michigan State University )
Beans, Mr. and Mrs. G. H., Jr., Alexandria, Va.: Horseshoe crab from Oregon Inlet, N.C, (250385).
Beardsley, John W., Honolulu, Hawaii: Holotype and paratype of mealy bug from Hawaii (253496). (See also Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Assoc.)
Beardsley, Robert S., Madeira Beach, Fla.: Fish skull (246044).
Bears Bluff Laboratories, Wadmalaw Island, 8.C.: (Through Dr. G. Robert Lunz) 5 nemertean worms from South Carolina (252576).
Beaudette Foundation for Biological Research, Solvang, Calif.: (Through Dr. J. Laurens Barnard) 111 amphipods (247387).
Beaver, Alfred T., Washington, D.C.: Funeral badge (248944).
Beck, Dr. D. Elden (See Brigham Young University)
Becker, Ralph E., Washington, D.C.: 112 Jacquard woven pictures (2516638) ; letter appointing W. L. Ames Deputy Marshall for inauguration of U.S. Grant, baton, and sash used on that occasion (251858) ; 68 pieces of political sheet musie (251917); 131 fabric objects (252230).
Becker Manufacturing Co., New York, N.Y.: (Through Peter J. Rosa) 89 coin reproductions (252066, 252329).
Beckert, Ferdinand, Seat Pleasant, Md.: 27 iron utensils, bedroom icebox, ca. 1878, crowbar, and a splitting tool (251851).
Beeman, Lt. R. N. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Beets, Virginia, Washington, D.C.: 2 buttons and a paper hat from ‘March on Washington,” 1963 (250459).
Behlen, Eugene F., Washington, D.C. : 1896 political campaign oversize dollar (253824).
Belém Virus Laboratory, Belém, Para, Brazil: (Through Dr. Robert EH. Shope) 122 bats from Belém (252384).
Belfort Instrument Co., Baltimore, Md.: (Through Richard C. Higbee) portrait, photograph, 4 letter books, and diploma of Julien P. Friez (252312).

<<<Page: 147>>>

Bell, James M. Department)
Bell, Kermit O., Jr., Fayetteville, Ark.: 13 fishflies from Arkansas (252862).
Bell, Mary E., Oakton, Va.: Flute by Wylde of London (249582).
Bemis, J. R. (See Ozan Lumber Co.)
Benesh, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn.: 23 scarab beetles from the U. S. (251230).
Benke, Paul A. (See Colt’s Patent Fire Arms Manufacturing Co., Inc.)
Bennett, Michael St. Cyr (See Angel, Jonathan §.)
Benson, Joseph (See Joint Committee on the Preservation of the Garrick Building Ornament and World Book Encyclopedia )
Bentley, Fred P., San Jose, Calif.: 2 rainbow obsidian specimens from Modoe Co., Calif. (249646).
Berg, Mrs. Edith G., College Park, Md. : Six-keyed flute (249396).
Berg, Dr. Rolf (See Universitetets Botaniske Museum )
Berg, Dr. Rolf Y., Davis, Calif.: 50 ants from North America (251229).
Bergquist, R. A. (See Western Hlectric Co., Inc.)
Berkebile, Donald, Takoma Park, Md.: 2 items of U.S. Army winter underwear (251788) ; 2 gasoline pumps, ca. 1916-18 (254115).
Berkeley, Cyril. (See Canada, Government of; and Pacific Biological Station)
Bermuda, Government of: Government Aquarium and Museum: (through Spencer Tinker) eel from Bermuda (252188).
Berry, F. H. partment of the)
Bertossa, Antonio, Ruhengeri, Republic Rwandaise: 12 unindentified phosphate minerals from Buranga, Rwanda (253022, exchange). (See also Ministére des Affaires Hconomiques; and Rwanda, Government of)
Berwick, Mrs. Clara W., Norwood, Mass.: 74 pieces of American glass and a Dedham pottery platter (248370).
(See Post Office
(See Interior, U.S. De-
Bessey, Lenora (deceased): (Through Mrs. Austin H. Clark) wedding dress, 1777 (252525).
Bhatti, J. S., Jabalpur, India: 8 thrips from India (258898, exchange).
Bierwagen, Dr. Elmer E., Princeton, N.J.: Brachiopod from the Devonian of Montana (247661).
Biezanko, Dr. C. M., Pelotas, Brazil: 1,540 miscellaneous insects from Brazil, Germany, and Poland (249067, 249078, 249426, 249627, 251609, 252784, 253515).
Billing, Wyly M., Jr., Miami, Fla.: 2 ferns (253060). (See also Fantastic Gardens)
Bingham, Mrs. Millicent Todd, Washington, D.C.: 14-piece canister set and sugar bucket (253797).
Bingham, Mrs. Walter V., Washington, D.C., and Hodgkin, Dr. W. H. (deceased) : Mahlon Loomis experimental wireless apparatus (152233).
Bishop, Dr. Philip, Washington, D.C. : 59 foreign postage stamps and covers (253887).
Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Honolulu, Hawaii: 54 phanerogams, 7 grasses, and 5 ferns (249320, exchange) ; (through Dr. J. L. Gressitt) 32 beetles from New Guinea (248921, exchange) ; 6 beetles from islands south of New Zealand and 190 bird skins from North Borneo (249075, 252167) ; (through Dr. Tsing C. Maa) 8 bot flies from the Old World (248349).
Bittinger, Mrs. Charles, Washington, D.C.: Pair of lamp mats (248936).
Black & Decker Manufacturing Co., Towson, Md.: (Through Robert H. Riley, Jr.) pilot model of donor’s first cordless electric drill (254086).
Blair, Dr. Albert P. (See Tulsa, University of)
Blake, Mrs. Alice H., Miami Beach, Fla.: 4 fossil olive shells from Florida (252160).
Blake, Dr. Emmet R. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Blaker, Mrs. Margaret C., Washington, D.C. : 2 postal covers from Germany (2538880).

<<<Page: 148>>>

Blancett, Esther, Mansfield, Ohio: 20 U.S. postage stamps and 2 foreign postecards (252032, 253872).
Blanchard, A., Houston, Tex.: 28 moths from Texas (247900, 249249, 249428, 250591).
Blanchard, Ruth E. (See Smithsonian Institution)
Blanding, Dr. Sarah Gibson (See Vassar College)
Blandy Experimental Farm, Boyce, Va.: (Through Dr. Walter S. Flory) 137 phanerogams (249541).
Blauston, Dr. Francis M., White Plains, N.Y.: Collection of antique toothbrushes, toothpicks, and a toothbrush rack (253101).
Blumberg, Dr. Baruch S., Rockville, Md.: 2 baskets (251760).
Blydenstein, Dr. John, Bogotdé, Colombia: Phanerogam and 7 grasses from Colombia (250818).
Bohart, Dr. Richard M., Davis, Calif.: 133 mosquitoes from North America (253910). (See also California, University of)
Bohlke, Dr. James E. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Bokermann, Dr. Werner C. A., Sao Paulo, Brazil: 3 beetles from South America (251864, exchange).
Bolling, Eugene W., Upper Montclair, N.J.: 3 shawls given in memory of Virginia Cary Smith Bolling (249729) ; clock in Dutch marquetry case and a Joseph Johnson watch (254081).
Bolton, Richard, Pomonky, Md.: 5 incomplete skeletons found on donor’s farm (252463).
Boolootian, Dr. Richard A., Los Angeles, Calif.: A. Weir Bell collection of slides, specimens, catalog, and reprint library of oligochaete worms (253263).
Born, Dr. W. T. (See Geophysical Research Corp.)
Boston University, Boston, Mass.: (Through Dr. Arthur G. Humes; and Dr. R. U. Gooding) 81 polychaete worms from Bermuda, Madagascar, and the West Indies (252097).
Bostrom, Martin, Orebro, Sweden: 5 first-day covers of Scandinavian countries (253856).
744-993—64——_10
Botanisch Museum and Herbarium, Utrecht, Netherlands: 24 phanerogams from Peru (249616).
Botanische Staatssammlung, Miinchen, Germany: (Though Dr. J. Poelt) 40 lichens (252469, exchange).
-Botanischer Garten und Museum, Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: (Through Dr. G. Wagenitz) 192 wood specimens mostly from Africa (249333, exchange).
Bothwell, Theodora, Fredonia, N.Y.: Jacquard-woven bookmark, late 19th century, and a carnelian ring (249312).
Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Pasadena, Calif.: 7,262 invertebrate fossils from Antarctica, Bolivia, and the Silurian of Great Britain and New Hampshire (250058, 252780, 252825) ; 20 minerals from Vance Co., N.C. (253528).
Bousfield, Dr. E. L. (See Canada, Government of)
Bowden, Mrs. R. Renee, Washington, D.C.: Letter, dated 1748, carried by the Thurn and Taxis Postal System from Copenhagen to Bordeaux via Hamburg (252027).
Bowen, Douglas M., Jr., Hanover, N.H.: Xanthoxenite from New Hampshire (252479).
Bowman, Prof. Paul W., Arlington, Va.: 376 phanerogams, 67 grasses, 7 ferns, and 170 cryptogams from Canada and the U.S. (251257).
Bowsher, Arthur L. (See Sinclair Oil & Gas Co.)
Boyd, Mrs. F. C. C., East Orange, N.J.: 215 primitive media of exchange used in China and Siam and modern coins mostly from the Far FEast (252072).
Boyd, Louise A. San Francisco, Calif.: 18 costume items, 13 cultural history items, 3 horological items, a pair of Derringer pistols, and a military monograph on Murman Railway (250307) ; 269 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign philatelic covers and postage stamps (249856).
Boyer, Raymond, Leonardo, N.J.: 19th-ceentury ice-cream freezer (252821).
Bradford, Faith, Washington, D.C.: Pocket memorandum (2538635).

<<<Page: 149>>>

Bradford, Rev. Louis M., Alexandria, Va.: Battle pennant from Spanish Auxiliary Cruiser, Santo Domingo, journal of ship’s positions, USS Lackawanna, private journal of Commander of USS Lackawanna (251791).
Bram, Ralph A. (See Casal, Dr. Osvaldo H.; Cova Garcia, Dr. Pablo; and Vargas, Dr. Luis)
Brandenburg, E. W., Colorado Springs, Colo.; Stibnite from Cripple Creek, Colo. (250399).
Brandhorst, Carl T., Seward, Nebr.: 21 gall wasps and their galls from North America (251491).
Brannock, Dr. Kent C., Kingsport, Tenn.: 3 garnets, prehnite, and 2 clinozoisite specimens from North Carolina, and 4 celestite specimens from Wise Co., Va. (249378, 250903, exchanges).
Branson, Dr. Branley A., Pittsburgh, Kans.: Paratype of a land snail from Mexico (251832).
Bratter, Herbert M., Washington, D.C.: 7 Chinese and Japanese items of clothing (248910).
Breland, Dr. Osmond P., Austin, Tex.: 10 mosquitoes from North America (258904).
Breyer, Mr. and Mrs. Henry W., Jr., Philadelphia, Pa.: Diamond necklace (251140).
Briggs, Dr. J. C. (See Texas, University of)
Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah: (Through Dr. D. Elden Beck) 11 erayfishes (250303).
Brison, Dr. P. J., Anderlues, Belgium: 13 minerals from worldwide localities (251512, exchange).
Bristow, City of, Okla.: (Through Dr. M. A. Yourman) gasoline firetruck, 1920 (250762).
British Columbia, University of, Vancouver, Canada: (Through Dr. C. C. Lindsey) fish, paratype, from Ecuador (252190).
British Solomon Islands Protectorate: Forestry Department: (Through Dr. T. C. Whitmore) 1,680 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and 177 ferns from the British Solomon Islands (253806).
Britton, Dr. E. B. tain, Government of)
Broadbent, Sam R., Washington, D.C.: 4 American Indian pouches (249632).
Broder, Richard E., Santa Barbara, Calif. : 327 phanerogams, 33 grasses, and 4 ferns from Baja California (252337).
Broderick, R. E. (See Northeastern Lumber Manufacturers Assoc., Inc.)
Brooks, H. A., Worcester, Mass.: Hampden watch (249269).
Brower, Dr. A. E., Augusta, Maine: 5 bot-flies from Maine (251611). (See also Maine, State of)
Brown, Dr. C. J. D. State College)
Brown, Franklin Q., Bethesda, Md.: Toy railroad engines and cars (253333).
Brown, George F., Family of, Belford, N.J.: (Through Neil M. Brown) plans of the submarine Mute (253326).
Brown, Gerald, Washington, D.C.: Official souvenir dollar of Montana Statehood Diamond Jubilee celebration, 1964 (253774).
Brown, James E., Washington, D.C.: Crayfish from West Virginia (251027).
Brown, Neil M. (See Brown, George F.)
Brown, Sam, Hendersonville, N.C.: Marcasite in spinel from North Carolina (252287).
Brown, Dr. W. L., Ithaca, N.Y.: 14 ants from North America (250599).
Brown, W. S. (See Colvilles, Ltd.)
Brown, Dr. Walter C. (See Stanford University )
Brown, Dr. William L., Jr., Ithaca, N.Y.: 4 ants, including a paratype, from Africa and New Guinea, and 4 centipedes from Mexico (251869, 258520).
Browne, Mrs. Francis C., Washington, D.C.: 2 paisley shawls and 2 19th-century pelerines (253954).
Browne, Dr. Meyer (See American Society Gem Counsellors)
Browne, Mrs. Ralph C., Salem, Mass. : K-1 firing device with accompanying data (243208).
Bruce, David K. E., Washington, D.C. : Interior woodwork from 2 Charleston, S.C., drawing rooms (250183).
(See Great Bri-
(See Montana

<<<Page: 150>>>

Bruce, George A., Stone Mountain, Ga.: Chrome diopside cat’s eye (249643).
Brundritt, John (See Canada, Government of)
Buckey, Mrs. Charles William, Arlington, Va.: Pencil sharpener (253335).
Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pa.: (Through Dr. Roy C. Tasker) 175 bird skins from West Pakistan (252865).
Buckup, Dr. Ludwig (See Museu Riograndense de Ciéncias Naturais)
Buehler, Ernest, Murray Hill, N.J.: Silicon crystal transistor (253239).
Buenos Aires, University of, Buenos Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr. Osvaldo A. Reig) 7 frogs from Argentina (253194, exchange).
Buerger, Prof. M. J., Cambridge, Mass.: 7 pieces of prototype X-ray diffraction equipment (253941).
Buffalo Museum of Science, Buffalo, N.Y.: 46 phanerogams from Mexico (245829).
Bulkley, Capt. Morton C., San Francisco, Calif.: 2 Thailand coins issued in 1963 (252081).
Bull, Lucien, Paris, France: Photographic negatives, prints, and apparatus relating to high-speed photography (246492).
Bullard, William C. U.S. Department of the)
Bullis, Harvey R., Jr. (See Harvard University; and Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Bullock, Dr. Dillman §S., Angol, Chile: 32 springtails from Chile (250559).
Bunting, Mrs. Ethel Jane W., Washington, D.C.: 267 ethnological items from Iran and Pakistan, including materials for a Kalamkar textile printing display and a brush from Laos (242185, 246937).
Burbanck, Dr. W. D. University )
Burch, J. B. (See Michigan, University of)
Burch, John Q., Los Angeles, Calif. : 3 paratypes of a new species of mollusk from Mexico (249642).
Burch, Dr. Thomas A., and family, Silver Spring, Md. : 396 marine inverte-
(See Interior,
(See Emory
brates from Guam, Mexico, and western U.S., also a fish (247441).
Burden, L. C. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Burden, Mr. and Mrs. William A. M., New York, N.Y.: 25 archeological materials from Egypt, Greece, Italy, and Palestine (253493).
Burdette, Mrs. John S., Arlington, Va.: Watch (251553).
Burjorjee, Mrs. Lucille P., Washington, D.C.: 4 foreign postal covers (253881).
Burke, Dr. Horace R., College Station, Tex.: 4 weevils, paratypes, from Texas (252372).
Burks, Dr. Barnard D., Washington, D.C. : 224 miscellaneous insects from the U.S. and ii foreign postal covers (249062, 253848).
Burton, Mrs. Josie E. Newcomb (deceased): (Through Guy J. Cappello) 40 items of needlework and lace, 15 items of women’s and children’s dress, and 6 porcelain custard cups (247913).
Burundi, Government of: (Through Agence Philatelique) first-day cover honoring Dag Hammarskjold (252040).
Bush Romero, Pablo, Mexico, D.F.: 15 items, ca. 1742, recovered from the 1960 C.E.D.A.M. trip to Hl Matancero, Mexico (249440).
Bushey, Dr. Harold L., Barbourville, Ky.: 2 bronze medals issued by the
| Daniel Boone Festival at Barbourville,
1963 (251160).
Butcher, Henry P., Volcan, Republic of Panama: Phanerogam from Panama (251271).
Buxton, George M. (See California, State of)
C. & E. Fein Co., Stuttgart, Germany : (Through Kurt Widmaier) 1890 D.C. motor (251699).
Cailler, Hugh E., New York, N.Y.: Chinese porcelain vase (250966).
Cain, Mrs. Benjamin B., Washington, D.C.: English Queen Anne _ desk (248728).
Cain, D. Jamison (See Pittman, Mrs. Velna)

<<<Page: 151>>>

Caldwell, Mrs. Gibson L., Wheeling, W. Va.: Diamond and pearl necklace (2513891).
California, State of: Depariment of Agriculture: (Through George M. Buxton) 2 grasshoppers, paratypes, from the U.S. (251533); (through Tokuwo Kono) 22 thrips from California and Virginia (252783, exchange). Department of Fish and Game: (Through John H. Fitch) fish, paratype, from Santa Catalina Island, 24 isopods, and 2 amphipods (219016, 248592).
California, University of, Berkeley Campus: 41 grasses from Argentina, 215 ferns from Costa Rica and 9 bryophytes from Chile (237084, 2438985, 251266) ; 55 phanerogams from Mexico and South America (251447, gift-exchange); (through Dr. Paul D. Hurd, Jr.) 2 wasps from California (251597); (through Dr. Herbert L. Mason) 3 phanerogams, 9 ferns and a eryptogam (248089) ; (through Dr. Ralph I. Smith) 18 archiannelids and 6 isopods (251040). Davis Campus: (Through Prof. Stanley F. Bailey) 14 thrips from California (249428, exchange); (through Dr. Richard M. Bohart) 16 wasps from South America (248845, 249911). Los Alamos Campus: (Through Peter Mygatt) cross section of Columbus II, a linear pinch device (253944). Los Angeles Campus: (Through Wayne J. Baldwin) fish, holotype, from the eastern Pacific Ocean (248207); (through Dr. Gordon H. Ball) slide containing syntypes of 2 new species of sporozoans (252531) ; (through Lyle E. Pyeatt) 9 cultivated phanerogams (250554) ; (through Mrs. L. R. Saul) 14 specimens and 6 plastotypes of pelecypods from the Cretaceous of California (246889, exchange). Riverside Campus: 35 hermit crabs (247599).
California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, Calif.: (Through John Thomas Howell) 4 grasses (251898) ; (through Dr. Hugh B. Leech) 6 leaf beetles from Central and South America (250378, exchange) ; 21 leaf beetles from the Western Hemisphere (253608).
Califernia Redwood Assoc., San Francisco, Calif.: (Through Sager-Redford Lumber Co.) 2 redwood boards (250516).
Cambodia, Kingdom of: (Through Bernard P. Groslier) 3 rubbings from the Bayon at Angkor (249561).
Cameron Iron Works, Inc., Houston, Tex.: (Through G. 8. Leonard) first successful blowout preventer developed by J. S. Abercrombie (252302).
Campbell, Lt. Col. Duncan, Harrisburg, Pa.: Aircraft emblem of the 1st Observation Squadron, ca. 1980 (250588).
Campbell, Dr. J. M., Washington, D.C.: Hskimo skull from Alaska (252462).
Campden-Main, Simon, Washington, D.C.: 29 reptiles and amphibians from South Viet-Nam collected by donor (253456).
Canada, Government of: Department of Agriculture: (Through Dr, W. J. Cody) 214 phanerogams, 27 grasses, and 7 ferns (250341, exchange) ; (through Dr. T. N. Freeman) 82 small moths from North America (248441, exchange) (through C. D. F. Miller) approximately 450 chalcid flies from North America and Russia (252855, exchange) ; (through Dr. H. EH. Milliron) 14 sawflies (250603). Department of Lish and Game: (Through John Brundritt) approximately 45 crayfishes (249880). Hntomology Research Institute: (Through Dr. K. W. Neatby) 20 parasitic wasps of 4 species from Europe and North America (253502). Fisheries Research Board: (Through Cyril Berkeley) 4 polychaete worms (249460) ; (through Dr. Leo Margolis) 6 new species of copepods, paratypes, from British Columbia (252125). National Museum of Canada: (Through Dr. E. L. Bousfield) 4 sea anemones (237665) ; (through Dr. Arthur H. Clarke, Jr.) 4 marine bivalve scallops, paratypes, from Sable Island, Nova Scotia (251944, exchange). Geological Survey: (Through Dr. Peter Harker) 17 brachiopods from the Permian or Arc

<<<Page: 152>>>

tic Islands, Canada (251134, exchange). National Research Council: (Through Dr. W. S. G. Maass) 35 lichens from eastern Canada (252999).
Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 2 stilbite specimens from Poonah, India (247909); danburite from El Alamo, Baja California, Mexico (249176) ; malachite from the Congo (249825) ; alexandrite from the U.S.S.R. (250954) ; beryl from Salinas, Minas Gerais, Brazil (251811) ; opal in matrix from Queretaro, Mexico (253530) ; vanadinite from Tucson, Ariz. (253762) ; scheelite from Dos Cabesos, Ariz. (253766) ; 265 minerals mostly from Mexico (253744, 253760, 258761) ; gold nugget, 65 grams (253767).
Canisius College, Buffalo, N.Y.: (Through Rey. James J. Ruddick) 4 pieces of electrical laboratory demonstration apparatus (252896).
Canterbury Museum, Christchurch, New Zealand: (Through Ron J. Scarlett) bird skin (251584, exchange).
Cape Haze Marine Laboratory, Sarasota, Fla.: (Through Dr. Eugenie Clark) 8 sharks from Florida and 4 paratypes of a new pipefish from the Red Sea (248646, 251894).
Capener, Dr. A. L., Pretoria, South Africa: 2 tree hoppers and 12 membracids from Africa (250789, 253899).
Capitol Medals, Inc., High Point, N.C.: 2 States of the Union series medals honoring the State of North Dakota (252064) ; (through A. C. Schultz; and Token and Medal Society) 4 medals honoring the States of California and Tilinois (248939, 248940); (through Token and Medal Society) 5 silver and 4 bronze medals honoring the States of Colorado, Montana, New Jersey, and New York (249852, 250468, 252330, 258351); 2 John Fitzgerald Kennedy memorial medals (252887).
Caplin, Mortimer M. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Caplinger, H. S. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Cappello, Guy J. (See Burton, Mrs. Josie HE. Newcomb)
Capps, Mrs. Stephen, Washington, D.C.: Photograph of painting by W. D. Taylor showing harp piano, 1909 (251850).
Caraker, G. E., Deep Springs, Inyo Co., Calif.: Black toad from Deep Springs (250532).
Cardenas, Dr. M., Cochabamba, Bolivia: 487 phanerogams, 35 grasses, 6 ferns, and 4 cryptogams from Bolivia (249316).
Carl, Mrs. G. C., Victoria, B.C., Canada: 3 shrimps (244450).
Carl Zeiss, Inc., New York, N.Y.: (Through Bruce Maxfield) 2 cross-sectioned binoculars, Diasport and Carl Zeiss (250105) ; (through Raoul J. Menendez) 8 sonnar lenses, a planar lens, and a biogon lens (250521).
Carmichael, Dr. Leonard, Washington, D.C.: Cover bearing cancellation commemorating pilgrimage of Pope Paul VI and presentation album containing 278 mint stamps and 8 souvenir sheets (251958, 252489).
Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington, D.C.: (Through Dr. R. BE. Hewitt) 2 fishes from Bermuda (251441).
Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh, Pa.: 228 phanerogams, 67 grasses, and 76 ferns from Colombia (248653, exchange) ; (through W. W. Woodside) 4 Assam paper chits and a New Orleans brass ‘‘quarte” token (252067).
Carriker, Dr. M. A. Jr.. Bucaramanga, Colombia: Land snail from Colombia (250531).
Carson, Dr. Hampton L. (See Washington University)
Carter, William G., Stillwater, Okla.: 25 ants from North America (253082).
Cartwright, O. L., Washington, D.C.: Tsopod and 301 scarab beetles from South Carolina (231304, 2494380).
Casal, Dr. Osvaldo H., Buenos Aires, Argentina: 157 velvet ants from South America (251931, exchange) ; (through Ralph A. Bram) 2 mosquitoes (253612).
Case, Mr. and Mrs. Jean, Ogden, Utah: 4 silicified coral specimens and 4 variscite specimens from Utah

<<<Page: 153>>>

(249048); (through Dr. Francis M. Hueber) limb section of petrified wood from Wyoming (249047).
Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland, Ohio: (Through Prof. Robert S. Shankland) 8 pieces of electrical and physical apparatus (251332).
Casey Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 86 holotypes, 15 allotypes, and 23 paratypes of leaf and darkling beetles (246758).
Cassidy, Dr. William A. (See Columbia University)
Castlen, Dr. Charles R., La Canada, Calif.: 15 ethnological items from Papua, New Guinea, an Australian campaign hat, and a Japanese flag (252811).
Casto, Carroll W. (See West Virginia Centennial Medallion Committee)
Castro, Maj. Cecilio B. (See Honduras, Government of)
Cate, Mrs. Helen W. (See Weyl, Anna Czachorowsky )
Causey, Dr. Nell B., Fayetteville, Ark.: 14 millipedes, including types, and 215 centipedes from Mexico and North America (250592, 251236).
Cavitron Ultrasonics, Inc. Long Island City, N.Y.: (Through Leonard W. Suroff) 2 ultrasonic dental handpieces and an assortment of dental cutting tips (250505).
Cazier, Dr. Mont A. (See Arizona State University )
Centre Technique Forestier Tropical, Nogent-sur-Marne (Seine), France: (Through M. D. Normand) 100 microscopic preparations of woods from Africa and New Caledonia (253056, exchange).
Cerame-Vivas, Maximo (See Duke University)
Chace, E. P. (See Natural History Museum)
Chalmers, Dr. R. O. Government of)
Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea, Smithsonian Institution: Golden sapphire, 22.35 carats (249824) ; 17,300 mollusks, 24 starfishes, and 3 barnacles from worldwide localities (250061) ; (through L. J. Lancaster) 370 marine
(See Australia,
mollusks from the Tonga Islands
(251705). Chamberlin, Mrs. Norman (See Fort Johnson Marine Biological Laboratory) Chan, Bill, Aberdeen, Hong Kong: 6
fresh-water fishes from Hong Kong (251616). Chandler, Rear Adm. Alfred W.,
Chevy Chase, Md.: Models of the teeth of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, and a pair of calipers made and used by Paul Revere (2494138).
Chapel Hills Medals, Inc., Chapel Hill, N.C.: (Through Token and Medal Society) 2 official commemorative medals honoring the U.S.S. North Carolina and its establishment as a memorial to all World War II veterans at Wilmington, N.C. (248732).
Chapelle, Howard I., Washington, D.C.: Postal cover from Viet-Nam (253842) ; taffrail log dial, iron spectacle clew, wooden deadeye and sail hoop, and a 3-blade propeller (254111). (See also El Museo Maritimo)
Chapnick, Howard, New York, N.Y.: 115 black and white photographs taken by Kosti Ruohomaa (252971).
Chappalear, James, Chevy Chase, Md.: 2 first-day covers and 17 first-day programs (253882).
Charles Zies & Sons Co., Baltimore, Md.: (Through Theodore Zies) Mergenthaler milling machine (254090).
Chase, Emily T. (See National Society of the Colonial Dames of America)
Chase, Mrs. Jean Ramsay, Hollywood, Md.: English bracket clock with painted dial (252495).
Chase, Philip H., Wynnewood, Pa.:
119 Confederate Treasury notes (247214). Checker, L. (See Hill 50 Gold Mine)
Cheek, Dr. Randall P. U.S. Department of the)
Chemsak, Dr. J. A., Berkeley, Calif. : 26 beetles from California (250608). Chester B. Stem, Inc., New Albany,
(See Interior,
Ind.: (Through Chester B. Stem) 28 finished boards of various woods (253086).

<<<Page: 154>>>

Chiavassa, H. ment of)
Chicago, Ill, City of: (Through Lewis H. Hill) 3 leaded-glass casement windows, 1885, panel of armorial stained glass, 1894, and 1 lot of hardware and tile fragments (251279).
Chicago, University of, Chicago, IIl.: Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear Studies: (Through Dr. Edward Anders) 25 grams of Orgueil meteorite from France (251081, exchange).
Chicago Natural History Museum, Chicago, Ill.: 4 phanerogams, 111 grasses, and 273 ferns from Central America (249327, 249984, 250684, 252899, 252909) ; 222 phanerogams, 38 grasses, and 3 ferns from Central America, 122 mascerated remains of fossil fishes from the Lower Devonian of Lucas Co., Ohio (248656, 252837, 254024, exchanges) ; (through Dr. Emmet R. Blake) bird skin (251567, exchange). (See also Defense, U.S. Department of)
Chilton Club, Boston, Mass.: (Through Mrs. John O. Stubbs) 2 eartoons by Bruce Bairnsfather (253629).
China, Government of the Republic of: (Through T. Y. Ho) 26 postage stamps of the Republic of China (258887).
Chinese Embassy Hall)
Chirichigno F., Norma (See Ministerio de Agricultura)
Chong, Ana Chee, Colon, Republic of Panama: Upper part of a woman’s dress of the San Blas Cuna Indians (252770).
Christensen, Dr. Carlo (See GitzJohansen, Aage)
Christensen, Mrs. Charles, Kamuela, Hawaii: 3 marine mollusks from Puako, Hawaii (252002).
Christenson, L. W., Cleveland Heights, Ohio: Custom-made stamp viewer with an electrical attachment (244428) ; 2,963 miscellaneous philatelic items and publications of Japan and other foreign countries (252042, 252080, 253874).
Chujo, Dr. M., Takamatsu-shi, Japan: 8 beetles from Japan (251703).
(See Monaco, Govern-
(See Fine Arts
Church, Frank P., Lomita, Calif.: Astronomical clockwork (250512).
Cincinnati, University of, Cincinnati, Ohio: (Through Dr. Hmerson Kemsies) 6 bird skins (249175, exchange).
_Claiborne-Armstrong, Mrs. Louise, Apopka, Fla.: Carriage mantle, carriage dress, and Spanish jacket (252943).
Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. Elvira, Washington, D.C.: 4 Corinthian staters struck in Corinthian colonies (250466) ; Roman bronze tessera, 27 B.C.—A.D. 14 (251151) ; 28 foreign patterns and trial strikings (252077); 3 foreign covers (2588382).
Clain-Stefanelli, Dr. Vladimir, Washington, D.C.: Gold bracteate showing the head of the Romar Emperor, Caracalla, A.D. 196-217 (250461) ; quarter gulden struck in cardboard, 1573 (250462) ; 4 Belgian and French patterns and medalets (250463); 10 ancient, medieval, and modern coins in silver and copper (251152) ; 8 German and Italian silver medals, 17th—-19th centuries, and a Chinese dollar (251180) ; legal documents issued in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, 1792-1822 (252078) ; 19 foreign and U.S. covers (253841).
Clarey, John, Spur Tree, Jamaica: (Through Brother Michael Stomber, C.P.) iron projectile (252385).
Clark, Mrs. Austin H. (See Bessey, Lenora)
Clark, Clyde A., Salem, Oreg.: Sphere of jasper from Bruno Canyon, Idaho (2538653).
Clark, Dr. Eugenie (See Cape Haze Marine Laboratory)
Clark, Dr. L. G. (See Pennsylvania, University of)
Clark, Richard C., Springfield, Va.: Cosmograph motion-picture projector (250519).
Clark University, Worcester, Mass. : 5 phanerogams and grass from Massachusetts (217980).
Clarke, Dr. Arthur H., Jr. Canada, Government of)
Clarke, Elizabeth L., Putney, Vt.: 2 phanerogams from Vermont (249838).
(See

<<<Page: 155>>>

Clarke, M. Augusta (See Clarke, Mortimer)
Clarke, Mortimer (deceased) : (Through M. Augusta Clarke) 78 ancient art objects (245919).
Clay, Dr. Theresa (See Great Britain, Government of)
Clements, D. Thomas (See United Nations Postal Administration)
Clench, Dr. William J. (See Harvard University)
Cleveland, Mr. and Mrs. Richard F., Baltimore, Md.: 5 items of clothing worn by President and Mrs. Grover Cleveland (253358).
Cloos, Dr. Ernst (See Johns Hopkins University)
Closs, Dr. Darcy (See Universidade do Rio Grande do Sul)
Cobban, Dr. W. A. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Cochran, Dr. Doris M. (See Lanzen, Edward M.)
Cody, Morrill, Washington, D.C.: 2 pieces of Mexican pottery (248275).
Cody, Dr. W. J. (See Canada, Government of)
Coghill, Mrs. Muriel A., Bethesda, Md.: Navaho Indian horsehair rope collected by donor in Albuquerque, N. Mex., 1898 (240468).
Cohen, Dr. Daniel M. U.S. Department of the)
Cohen, Dr. Edward I., Waltham, Mass. : 11 flies from Asia and 81 mosquitoes (250588, 253610).
Cohn, Erich, New York, N.Y.: Watercolor, 3 drawings, and 12 etchings by Paul Kleinschmidt and 4 etchings by Ludwig Meidner (253741).
Colby, Susan, Washington, D.C.: 5 foreign covers (253849).
Colgate, Adele S. (deceased): (Through O.K. Myers) 243 Currier & Ives lithographs (245107, bequest).
Collette, Dr. Bruce B. (See Guinean Trawling Survey )
Collier, F. J., Sterling, Va.: Common opal from Sterling Park, Va., (251815).
Collins, Jeremiah A. (See Smithsonian Institution)
(See Interior,
Collins, Prof. Samuel C., Cambridge, Mass.: Collins cryogenic expansion machine, 1942 (254120).
Colorado, University of, Boulder, Colo.: (Through Dale L. Denham) phanerogam from Mexico (249980) ; (through Prof. Russell M. Honea) specimen of stutzite, empressite, and barite from Colorado (2538301, exchange). University Museum: (Through Dr. William A. Weber) isotype of a phanerogam (251272); 231 lichens (2514138, 251719, exchanges).
Colorado Schcool of Mines, Golden, Colo.: (Through Dr. J. J. Finney) Arapahoe, Colo., meteorite, 422 grams (252659, exchange).
Colt’s Patent Fire Arms Manufacturing Co., Inc., Hartford, Conn.: (Through Paul A. Benke) Colt automatic military rifle, bipod with web scabbard, manual, bayonet with web and metal scabbard, and colt .45 125th anniversary model (252173).
Columbia Broadcasting System and WTOP-Radio, Washington, D.C.: (Through Roy Meachum and Granville Klink) microphone used by President Franklin D. Roosevelt and presentation plate given him by the Columbia Broadcasting System (283610).
Columbia University, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Paul K. Anderson) 7 amphipods (232926) ; (through Alvin P. Tramm) 51 pieces of electrical and physical sciences apparatus (249200). Lamont Geological Observatory: Palisades, N.Y.: (through Dr. William A. Cassidy) 66 specimens of the Campo del
Cielo meteorite from Argentina (252821). Colvilles, Ltd., Glasgow, Scotland:
(Through W. 8S. Brown) 7 Roman nails (253939).
Commerce, U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.: Bureau of the Census: (Through Richard M. Scammon) Univaec I computer, mercury tank, and a magnetic tape transport (243210). Coast and Geodetic Survey: (Through William D. Harris) aerial camera (251476) ; (through Dr. Harris B. Stew

<<<Page: 156>>>

art, Jr.) sea cucumber (250753). WNational Bureau of Standards: (Through Dr. W. T. Sweeney) 38 models of hydraulic turbine handpiece with spare parts and special tools (251480). Weather Bureau: (Through Christas Harmantas) 8 radiosondes and radiosonde elements (254096); (through Robert Wright) electromagnetic counter and a pneumatic instrument (251558).
Compton, James land C.)
Conkin, Dr. James E., Louisville, Ky. : 128 Foraminifera, types, from the Mississippian of Missouri and western Illinois (251097).
Connell, Dr. Walter University of)
Conrad, Lyle G., Chevy Chase, Md.: 11 crayfishes and a fish (248124, 248765).
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas, Madrid, Spain: (Through Prof. J. L. Amoroés) 3 meteorites from Spain, and the Cuba meteorite from the West Indies (252396, exchange).
Conservator of Forests, Office of, Kuching, Sarawak: (Through L. S. V. Murthy) 187 wood specimens from Sarawak (249041, exchange).
Continental Productions Ltd., New York, N.Y.: (Through Curtis Mayer) 8 political campaign objects relating to
(See Masek, Ro-
(See Delaware,
the 1960 Kennedy-Nixon campaign (249573).
Conway, John F. (See National Company, Inc.)
Cook, Grafton H., Dowagiac, Mich.: Militia full-dress coat, ca. 1880, and Spanish summer uniform, ca. 1898 (249637).
Cook, Harry L. Department of the)
Cooley, Austin, College Park, Md.: Facsimile recorder, 1923, scrapbook documenting history of photograph transmission, and Kuntz phototube, ca. 1926, partially restored (252175). (See also Litton Industries, Inc.)
Coonley, Prentiss L., Washington,
(See Interior, U.S.
D.C.: Arm chair, and an opal from Virgin Valley, Nev. (251075, 252778).
Coons, Dr. D. O., Bedford, Canada: Set of coins issued by the Canadian Mint, 1963 (249403).
Coons, Mrs. Isabella M., Baltimore, Md.: 9 cameras and related equipment and papers of Frederick W. Mueller (252486).
Cooper, Dr. G. Arthur, Washington, D.C.: 216 brachiopods and trilobites from the Mississippian of Ohio, Ordovician of North Wales, Great Britain, and the Paleozoic and Mesozoic of the British Isles (250407, 251763, 251771).
Cooper, Dr. and Mrs. G. Arthur, Washington, D.C.: Approximately 1,000 fossils from the Middle Ordovician and Silurian of southern Ontario, collected by donors (251455).
Cooper, Mrs. Josephine, Washington, D.C.: Medal issued in 1841 by the Catholic Temperance Society, and a small pamphlet, Washington’s Farewell Address to the People of the United States (249261).
Cooper, Dr. Kenneth W., Hanover,
N.H.: 215 ants from South America (251103).
Cooper, Dr. Robert W. (See San Diego Zoological Garden)
Copeland, Dr. C. W. (See Gray, Randall)
Copeland, Dr. T. P. (See Durey, Richard A.)
Copenhagen, University of, Copenhagen, Denmark: Botanical Museum: 271 phanerogams and 109 grasses from Argentina (247777, exchange).
Corby, Mrs. William S., Chevy Chase, Md.: Double-woven Jacquard coverlet (252487).
Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Edward C. Raney) 10 fishes, paratypes, from Illinois and South Carolina (248028, 250563). Department of Botany: (Through Dr. Harlan P. Banks) 7 plant specimens from the Devonian of New York (251091, exchange).
Corning Glass Works, Corning, N.Y.: (Through Dr. William H. Dumbaugh,

<<<Page: 157>>>

Jr.) synthetic tektite glass, 282 grams (253072).
Corothie, Harry (See Universidad de los Andes)
Couacaud, Mrs. Jean, Port Louis, Mauritius: Mollusk eggs and 3 mollusks (248142, exchange).
Councilor, Mrs. Harry A., Alexandria, Va.: Child’s closestool (253794).
Courtenay, Walter R., Durham, N.C.: 201 fishes from Tennessee (251067).
Coutin, Dr. Thomas J. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Cova Garcia, Dr. Pablo, Maracay, Aragua, Venezuela: (Through Ralph A. Bram) 5 mosquitoes (2538609).
Covel, Mrs. Thomas (See National Society of the Colonial Dames of America)
Cox, Mrs. Mary B. Home)
Crane, Kent, Falls Church, Va.: 7 mammals and 5 birds from Indonesia (249641).
Crane, Winthrop M. George W.)
Crenshaw, Dr. John W., Jr., College Park, Md.: 4 turtles from Vera Cruz, Mexico (249122).
Crichton, Dr. M. Ian, Reading, Berks, England: 112 caddis flies from England (252859).
Critchley, Kenneth D., Worcester, Mass. : Pair of spectacles made in America, ca. 1900 (250656).
Critz, Maj. Gen. Harry H., Fort Campbell, Ky.: U.S. shoulder sleeve insigne, World War II (250534).
Crocker, Mildred F., Washington, D.C.: 2 pairs of spectacles (248424).
Croizat, Dr. Leon, Caracas, Venezuela: (Through Dr. D. W. Taylor) bark hammock from the Guaiko (Waika) Indians of Venezuela (254015).
Crom, Mr. and Mrs. C. G., Springfield, Va.: 5 weapons from the Philippines (253320).
Crosby, Duane F. (See Turtle Mountain Jewel Bearing Plant)
Crosskey, Roger W. (See Great Britain, Government of)
(See Louise
(See Crouch,
Crouch, George W. (deceased) : (Through Winthrop M. Crane) meerschaum pipe (249584, bequest).
Crown Agents, Washington, D.C.: (Through A. J. HE. Davis) 5,196 mint postage stamps of the British Commonwealth of Nations (253840).
Culberson, Dr. William L. (See Duke University )
Cunningham, Dr. Hugh B. (See Iilinois, State of) Cunningham, J. Lester (See J. L.
Cunningham & Co.)
Curd, Alan C., London, England: 1 Japanese and 2 North Korean bank notes (248731).
Curtiss, Gene, Benton, Ky.: 53 minerals from various localities (251511, exchange).
Curtiss-Wright Corp., Buffalo, N.Y.: (Through Richard D. O’Connor) alloy steel abstract (253949).
Cutter, Albert R., Santa Barbara, Calif. : 10 spheres, cut gemstones, and 3 minerals from worldwide localities (250961, 252272, 254019).
Cypert, Eugene (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Dahle, K. N., Miami, Fla. : Chaleedony cabochon and pendant from Malheur Co., Oreg. (248702).
Dale, Mr. and Mrs. W. N., New York, N.Y.: 42 Turkish pottery specimens (251756).
Dandy, J. E. Government of)
Danforth, Dr. Charles G. dale College)
Daniel, Dr. F. (See Zoologische Sammlung des Bayerischen Staates)
Dannettel, R. C., Jr. (See Babcock & Wilcox Co.)
Darling, Thomas, Jr., Alexandria, Va.: 39 ferns mostly from Florida collected by donor (253817).
Darlington, Dr. P. J. University )
D’Aubrey, Jeanette D. (See South African Association for Marine Biological Research)
Davidson, Edward, Ithaca, N.Y.: Goethite and pyrite on calcite from Chihuahua, Mexico (253747).
(See Great Britain,
(See Glen-
(See Harvard

<<<Page: 158>>>

Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents)
Davis, A. Brian, Washington, D.C.: 80 flies from North America (250587).
Davis, Mrs. Brooks, Tucson, Ariz.: Copper from Ajo, Ariz. (251695, exchange).
Davis, Dean H., Jr., Charleston, W. Va.: 49 mining tokens and mining scrip issued by West Virginia companies (250465, 251184).
Davis, Dr. James R. See North Carolina, State of)
Davis, Prof. Ray J., Pocatello, Idaho: 26 phanerogams from Idaho (253226).
Davison, Mrs. Allen (See Torrence, Jane Paull)
Davison, Clinton C., Baltimore, Md.: Agate cabochon from Mexico (248709).
Dawson, Charles E., Ocean Springs, Miss.: 4 fishes from the Persian Gulf (247855). (See also Gulf Coast Research Laboratory)
Dawson, Harris P., Washington, D.C.: 2 marine mollusks from Australia (251464).
Day, Hon. J. Edward (See Post Office Department)
Dean, Miles, III, McLean, Va.: Center bearing rail, 1875 (249862).
Dearborn, John H., Stanford, Calif. : 110 marine bivalve mollusks from MeMurdo Sound, Antarctica (248521).
Deas, Stanley P. (See Southern Pine Association )
Dedlock, Prof. S., Lille, France: Slide of a parasitic helminth worm (250741).
de Castro, Dr. Alceu Lemos (See Museu Nacional)
Deeming, J. C., London, England: Fly from England (251909).
Defense, U.S. Department of: Department of the Air Force: Air Force Systems Command: 3 rifle grenades and a cleaning rod for the AR-15 rifle (254121). Epidemiological Laboratory: 17 phanerogams from Greenland (250331); (through Dr. Thomas J. Coutin) 20 fresh-water mollusks from Greenland (252259). Fifth HEpidemiological Flight: (Through Lt. Richard HE. Johnsen) 35 fishes from the Philippines (251066). Military Personnel Center: 8 U.S. Air Force decorations
(254056). Navigation and Guidance Laboratory: Airborne atomichron, 1960 (253253). Department of the Army: Pair of WAC shoes and hat (250535) ; 1 of 4 drums used in leading the funeral procession of President Kennedy (251348, indefinite loan) ; Simplex projector, KS lamp housing; Simplex LC-3 pedestal with bracket for RCA MI-—9030 sound head ; MI-9010—B magnetic sound head (252366) ; 2 Dahl 35 mm. motion picture cameras with 2 supplementary lenses (252368); 2 U.S. distinctive insignia, Ist battalion and 725th maintenance battalion (252846, 25353838) ; (through L. C. Burden) Soviet grenade from Korea (250536) ; (through Sidney D. Haas) World War II shoulder sleeve insigne (250067) ; (through Col. Robert Traub) 326 miscellaneous insects from Malaya and 28 marine invertebrates (251457). Army Engineer Corps: (Through Alvin A. Snyder) 2 amphipods (249154). Army Weapons Command: (Through Budd A. Willetts) 3 U.S. Army weapons (249487). Biological Laboratories: 1,240 orchids from Thailand (2503833). Brooke Army Medical Center: (Through Maj. Vernon J. Tipton) 54 lice from Panama (252375). Third U.S. Army: Engineer Section: (Through Dr. C. W. Bartholomai) 85 land snails from Fort Rucker, Ala. (250254). Institute of Heraldry: (Through Col. Harry D. Temple) duplicate Air Foree Medal of Recognition awarded to Maj. Gen. Benjamin D. Foulois, with appurtenances (252484). Institute of Research: (Through A. R. Warner) bat from Fort Belvoir, Va. (252866). Medical Field Service School: (Through EH. L. Peyton) 56 mosquitoes from Texas (253512). Preventive Medicine Division: 53 mammals from Panama (254048). Property Disposal Office: Army truck, 1927 (248206). Quartermaster Depot: 13 World War II Army qualification badges and shoulder sleeve insignia (250062). 2nd Infantry Division: U.S. insigne for the 2nd Aviation Battalion, 2nd Infantry Division (253323). Department of the Navy: National Naval Medical Center

<<<Page: 159>>>

(Through Dr. Ernst Schwarz and J. M. Amberson) 95 fresh-water mollusks from Venezuela (248705). Naval Medical Research Units: (Through Chicago Natural History Museum) 194 mammals from Egypt and Sudan (249476) ; (through Comdr. Robert H. Kuntz) 2,359 crabs and shrimps (230196, 235533, 242931, 248620, 249011); 88 fishes from Taiwan (248403) ; 301 bird skins from Formosa (252864) ; (through Col. Robert Traub) 2 fleas, holotype and allotype, from Tanganyika (249068) ; (through Lt. Comdr. William H. Wells) seyllarid and 2 crabs (239401). Naval Observatory: Regulator clock (254094). Naval Oceanographic Office: (Through William Leapley) 12 fishes from the Caspian Sea (248692). Naval Weapons Laboratory: (Through Lt. R. N. Beeman) Mader-Ott harmonic analyzer, 1947 (254098).
Degener, Dr. Otto, Waialua, Oahu, Hawaii: Fungus from Hawaii (249689) ; 407 phanerogams, 6 grasses, and 16 ferns from Hawaii (249971, 252334).
DeGurse, John, Jr., Washington, D.C. : 2 foreign postal covers (253862).
Deignan, Herbert G., Pully, prés de Lausanne (Vaud), Switzerland: 9 bird skeletons from Europe (254028).
de la Rue, Mr. and Mrs. Sidney, Chestertown, Md.: Needlework picture, ‘The Sea Beast,” by Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. (252238).
Delaware, University of, Newark, Del.: (Through Dr. Walter Connell) 17 weevils from Delaware (251282).
Del Noce, Aldo, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 25 percent of a block of four 2-cent “Lake Shade” Panama Pacific Exposition Issue, 1913 (230499).
Demaree, Dr. Delzie, Hot Springs, Ark.: Cultivated phanerogam (250245).
de Mattos Filho, Dr. Armando (See Ministério da Agricultura)
De Mesa, Pedro, Quezon City, Rizal, Philippines: 88 mollusks from the Philippines and 2 flatworms (231151).
Denham, Dale L. (See Colorado, University of)
Denison, Elizabeth Jean, Lennoxville, Quebec, Canada: 80 lichens from eastern Canada (253600).
Denker, Mortimer M., New York, N.Y.: 697 miscellaneous new and used foreign stamps and a Confederate Postmaster’s Provisional cover (249260).
Denning, Dr. D. G., Moraga, Calif. : 2 caddis flies from the U.S. (249070).
Dennis, Mr. and Mrs. Robert N., Williamsburg, Va.: 53 items of stereoscopic equipment (25138038).
Dentry, Gordon, Washington, D.C.: 4-tined wooden fork (252786).
de Oliveira, Dr. Paulo Erichsen (See Divisao de Geologia e Mineralogia)
Departamento de Zoologia, Sio Paulo, Brazil: .(Through Dr. Gertrud Rita Kloss) topotype of a nematode worm (251336) ; (through Dr. P. E. Vanzolini) 64 frogs from central Brazil (248421, exchange).
de Porry, John J., Pinole, Calif.: Cover bearing special “Last Trip” marking (253417).
DeRocco, Henry, East Islip, N.Y.: 35 mm. motion-picture camera with tripod and 20 lantern slides (250518).
De Santis, Dr. Luis (See Universidad Nacional de La Plata)
Despres, Mr. and Mrs. Leon M., Chicago, Ill.: Architectural ornaments from Chicago Stock Exchange Building, 1893-94 (251280).
Deutch, Michael J., Washington, D.C.: 3 18th-century engravings and an Indonesian Temple rubbing (250792).
Deutsche Bundesbank, Frankfurt (Main), Germany: 2 5-Deutsche Mark notes issued in 1963 (248730); 2 10Deutsche Mark notes issued in 1960
251175).
Dewey, Hon. and Mrs. Charles S., Washington, D.C.: Chinese porcelain plate (250975).
DeWitt, J. Doyle, Hartford, Conn.: 4 political campaign items (250770).
Dexter, Dr. Ralph W. (See Kent State University)
De Young, David F., Washington, D. ©.: Marking gage and a collection of planes (25382438).

<<<Page: 160>>>

de Zahara, Marquesa, Washington, D.C.: Ball gown, 1892, baby cap, and neckpiece, 19th century (253123).
Diaz G., Teodoro, Monterrey, Mexico: 140 invertebrate fossils from the Mississippian, Permian, and Cretaceous of Mexico (238332).
Dick, Carl P., Hudson, Ohio: U.S. Army officer’s full-dress uniform, with cape, ca. 1902, and a pair of boots and spurs, post 1912 (249546).
Diem, Nguyen Xuam, Kent, Ohio: 2 pieces of currency presently in use in South Viet-Nam (249853).
Diemand, John A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Advice to Young Men and Boys, by B. B. Comegys (251852).
District of Columbia Public Schools, Washington, D.C.: Dunbar High School: (Through Charles Lofton) 40 pieces of electrical, physical, medical, and engineering apparatus (252354).
Divisao de Geologia e Mineralogia, Rio de Janerio, Brazil: (Through Dr. Paulo Erichsen de Oliveira) 296 marine mollusks from Brazil (2109138, exchange).
Dobie, S. N., Whitsett, Tex. : 11 fossil ferns from Texas (250410).
Dobkin, Sheldon (See Institute of Marine Science)
Dobrotworsky, Dr. N. V., Victoria, Australia: 8 mosquitoes from Australia (249061) ; 56 mosquitoes from Australia (253908, exchange).
Dodd, Mrs. Jean M., Falls Church, Va.: Account and letter book (250456).
Dodge, Dr. H. R., Pullman, Wash.: 114 flies and 130 mosquitoes from North America (253518, 253906).
Dolbear, Benjamin L., Belmont, Mass.: 2 electrically driven gyroscopes, ca. 1860 and 1867 (249285).
Domrow, Dr. R. (See Australia, Government of)
Donahue, Mrs. Ruth, Arlington, Va.: Cover with special cachet, postmarked May 16, 1968, aboard U.S.S. Kearsarge, with Project Mercury Recovery Team (258890).
Donaldson, Dr. Alan C., Morgantown, W. Va.: (Through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson) 3 Ordovician gastropods (248720).
Donaldson, John P. (See Loyola University and Arthur D. Little, Inc.)
Doris, Mrs. James, Webster, N.Y.: Hydroxy-herderite from Newry, Maine (252820).
Dosse, Mr. and Mrs. Adolph F., Fontana, Calif.: Triphyllite from New Hampshire (252278); 3 erystals of tunellite from Boron, Calif. (254018, exchange).
Double, Mrs. Joy, Surfside Beach, S.C.: Jaw containing 2 teeth of pycnodont fish from the Cretaceous of South Carolina (249553).
Douglas, B. M., Washington, D.C.: Original striking in pewter of the 1796 Castorland piece and a pattern half dollar of 1916 (252079).
Dowden, Dr. Philip B. ture, U.S. Department of)
Downey, Maureen E., Washington, D.C.: 500 shrimps, 6 sea anemones, 2
(See Agricul-
lots of plankton samples, 6 echinoderms, and 61 mollusks (249156, 258079).
Doyle, David, Usumbura, Burundi: 39 spears from Burundi (248911).
Doyle, Mrs. Thomas J. (See Hunt, Florence Blanche)
Doze, David, Bozeman, Mont.: 6 albino snails from Wyoming (246271).
Dragon Mine, Titanic District, Utah: 12 halloysite specimens from Dragon Mine (252261).
Drake, Dr. C. J., Washington, D.C.: 3 U.S. postage stamps and 19 foreign covers (2538438).
Drayton, Capt. Harry C. (deceased) : (Through Mrs. Harry C. Drayton) 2 bill hooks (249569).
Drayton, Mrs. Harry C. ton, Capt. Harry C.)
Drea, Dr. J. J. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
Dreisbach, R. R., Midland, Mich.: Chalcid fly from the U.S. (249060).
Dreyfuss, David W., Washington, D.C.: 6 postal cards and a commercial cover of Japan (252359).
Drummond, Dr. W. C., Los Angeles, Calif.: Fragment of cultivated fern (250213).
(See Dray

<<<Page: 161>>>

Dubose, Lt. William P., Jr., Lackland A.F.B., Tex.: 9 coleoptera (249204).
Ducommun, J. C. (See American Oil Co.)
Dufficy, Maurice (See International Truss Plate Corp.)
Dugand, Dr. Armando, Barranquilla, Colombia: 114 phanerogams from Colombia (248518, 250334).
Duggan, Mrs. W. S., Everett, Wash. : 75 marine and land snails from Washington (249629).
Duhaney, L. S., Kingston, Jamaica: Carved-wood American eagle (249459).
Duke, Doyle J., Eagle Pass, Tex.: 138 ethnological items from the Kickapoo tribe of Mexico (242223).
Duke University, Durham, N.C.: (Through Maximo Cerame-Vivas) 104 sea anemones collected by dredge off Beaufort, N.C. (252619) ; (through Dr. William L. Culberson) 64 lichens from the eastern U.S. (253818, exchange) ; (through Dr. D. A. Livingstone) 154 microscope slides showing pollen of African plants (251726, exchange). Marine Laboratory, Beaufort, N.C.: (Through Lawrence R. McCloskey) 13 amphipods, 7 isopods, 2 butterflies and shrimp (249155, 251069, 251635, 252228, 258188); (through Mary E. Potts) polychaete worm (249127).
Dumbaugh, Dr. William H., Jr. (See Corning Glass Works)
Dunn, D. L., and Miller, T. H., Houston, Tex. : 5 slides containing type specimens of chitinozoans (252823).
du Pont, Willis H., Miami, Fla.: 856 silver, copper, and bronze Russian coins and medals (252180).
Durey, Richard A., Johnson City, Tenn.: (Through Dr. T. P. Copeland) 5 proturans from North Carolina (249055).
Durfey, Mrs. Gloria, Miami, Fla.: 3 egg cases of 2 species of mollusks (248726).
Dutro, J. Thomas, Jr. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Dysart, Richard J., Urbana, Ill.: 20 beetles from Guatemala (252171).
Eadie, Arthur F., Taft, Calif.: 2 gypsum specimens from Soda Lake, California (250782). (See also Hadie Engineering Co.)
Eadie Engineering Co., Taft, Calif. : (Through Arthur F. Eadie) 2 bloedite specimens from San Luis Obispo Co., Calif. (253182, exchange).
Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y.: (Through Glenn W. Mentch) 4 Kodak cameras and a collection of photographic cameras (249564, 252789).
Eastop, Dr. V. F. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Eaton, Mrs. George, Covington, Ky.: 108 land and fresh-water mollusks from Iowa, Kentucky, and Ohio (207537, exchange).
Edwards, Lt. Col. Corinne E., Miami, Fla.: 58 marine mollusks from south Lake Worth Inlet, Florida (221651).
Edwards, Mrs. Llewellyn N., Glen Echo, Md.: Glass decanter, ca. 1800, pair of silver teaspoons, and a hound-handled pitcher (249844); plumb bob, plumb bob with reel, terrestrial globe map (252502).
Egleston, Charles, Columbia, S.C.: 1-dollar certificate issued by the Fostoria Industrial Corp., redeemed in 1934 (2533863).
Ehmann, Dr. William D. tucky, University of)
Ehrenreich, J.. New York, N.Y.: (Through Len Silverman) 35 mm. Nikonos camera and supplemental viewfinder attachment for underwater photography (252863).
Eichner, L. C., Clifton, N.J.: Ruling engine for making scales on reticules and locating crosshairs, epicycloidal gear cutters with forming tools and check gage, 1947, and 5 homemade lathe tools (250506, 250996, 251000).
Kiten, Dr. George (See Instituto de Botanica )
Elbel, Dr. Robert E., San Francisco, Calif.: 17 bird skins and 1,762 mites and ticks from Mexico and Thailand (250668, 251592).
Ellis, Mrs. Marion D., Los Angeles, Calif. ; 218 crayfishes, 39 lots of worms, and 2 field notebooks (246901).
(See Ken

<<<Page: 162>>>

El Museo Maritimo, Barcelona, Spain: (Through Capt. de Corbeta Jose M. Martinez-Hidalgo and Howard I. Chapelle) 6 water colors of 18th-century Spanish war vessels (253617).
Emerson, Dr. Alfred E., Chicago, Ill. : 16 termites, including paratypes, from South America (252861).
Emery, J. K., Watertown, Mass.: Gauge, ca. 1940 (254084).
Emory University, Atlanta, Ga.: (Through Dr. W. D. Burbanck) 10 isopods (252227); (through Prof. Robert H. Rohrer) Roget Spiral and electrostatic rocker engine (253641).
Emperor of Japan, His Majesty, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. Tohru Uchida) 4 sea anemones from Japan (252156).
Emrich, Duncan, Washington, D.C.: Approximately 1,480 marine mollusks from Mogadiscio, Somalia (250945).
Enay, R., Lyon, France: 157 plaster easts of ammonites from the Mesozoic of France (250860, exchange).
Entel, Mac, Miami, Fla.: (Through Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod) 7 fishes from Peru (252022).
Epstein, Ronald, Denver, Colo.: Perforated metal strip used for the manufacture of zinc-coated steel cents, 1943 (251157).
Erd, Richard C. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Erickson, Mrs. Martha M., Washington, D.C.: 5 pieces of white-on-white embroidery, 19th century (253089).
Erie Malleable Iron Co., Erie, Pa.: (Through Roger W. Griswold) iron air furnace model (253632).
Ervin, Dennis, Akron, Ohio: 2 gypsum specimens from Ohio (250048).
Erwitt, Elliott, New York, N.Y.: 128 black and white photographs (252364).
Escuela Agricola Panamericana, Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 1,101 phanerogams, 18 grasses, and 7 ferns from Honduras (249970, 251711, exchanges).
Escuela Nacional de Agricultura, Chapingo, México: 6 grasses from Mexico (252701).
Estrada, Emilio, Guayaquil, Ecuador: 20 pottery and stone objects from various sites of coastal Ecuador (252162).
Evans, Capt. Edward J., Arlington, Va.: Roman third bronze piece struck in the name of Fausta, wife of Constantine I, A.D. 307-826 (252074).
Evans, Dr. G. Owen, (See Great Brittain, Government of)
Evans, Dr. Howard E., Cambridge, Mass.: 18 wasps larvae from North America (252380). (See also Harvard University )
Evans, Dr. J. W. Government of)
Everist, Dr. S. L. Government of)
Evyan Perfumes, Inc., New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr. W. Langer) aquamarine cut stone, 1,000 carats, from Morambaya, Minas Gerais, Brazil (284735).
Ewalt, John M., Hyattsville, Md.: Typewriter (253647).
Explorers Club, New York, N.Y.: 22 photographs made during the SpanishAmerican War by official naval photographers (248188).
Eyer, Dr. John R., University Park, N. Mex.: 5 caddis flies from New Mexico (249623).
Kyerdam, Dr. Walter J., Seattle, Wash.: 4 crabs (229751).
Fager, Walter, Jr., South Norfolk, Va.: Iroquois beaded bag (247963).
Fairchild, Dr. G. B., Balboa Heights, Canal Zone: 15 horseflies from Central and South America (252567).
Fairfax County Police Department, Fairfax, Va.: (Through D. L. Hubbard) human skeletal material (249810).
Fancher, Patrick, Ouray, Colo.: En-
(See Australia,
(See Australia,
argite from Longfellow Mine, Colo. (251813). Fantastic Gardens, Miami, Fla.:
(Through W. M. Billing, Jr.) 6 cultivated ferns (249501, 249530). Farmakes, J. R. (See Argonne National Laboratory ) Farnham, Lee P., Washington, D.C.: Writing slate (251847). Farr, Dr. Thomas H. of Jamaica)
(See Institute

<<<Page: 163>>>

Farrance, Jeffery E., Springfield, Va.: Fragment of textile from Lima, Peru (253595) .
Farrar, Margaret E., Washington, D.C.: Paisley shawl (253953).
Fasal, Dr. Paul, San Rafael, Calif. : 24 sets of chessmen from different countries of Asia and Europe (251341).
Fatmi, Ali N. (See Pakistan, Government of)
Faul, Dr. Henry, Dallas, Tex.: 6 moldavites as standards for color (251797).
Faulkner, Douglas, Summit, N.J.: 13 shrimps, a kodachrome slide, and 1 lot of mollusks (249190).
Fauntroy, Rev. Walter, Washington, D.C.: Documents and promotional literature relating to the ‘““March on Washington,” Aug. 28, 1968 (251855).
Fechteler, Adm. William M., Washington, D.C.: 6 Japanese swords and sheaths, and a leather case (250558).
Feeney, Walter, Irvington, N. J.: 3 airmail postal cards and souvenir program with 2 tickets to Society of Philatelic Americans convention (253883).
Feinstein, Bernard, San Francisco, Calif.: 34 mammals from South VietNam (251383).
Fell, Prof. H. B., Wellington, New Zealand: 20 modern brachiopods from New Zealand (250055). (See also Victoria University)
Fenn, William (See Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts)
Ferguson, Dr. Edward, Jr. coln University )
Ferguson, Dr. F. F. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Fernald, Fred M., Silver Spring, Md.: 3 wooden tablets with Muslim religious inseriptions (253255).
Fernald, Dr. Robert L. (See Friday Harbor Laboratories; and Washington, University of)
Fersolin Corp., San Francisco, Calif. : (Through Hldred L. Lane) 2 bags of loamite soil conditioner made from wood (250514).
(See Lin-
Fibron Products, Inc., Buffaio, N.Y.: (Through Robert C. Oshei) 17 pieces of compressed wood products (250964).
Field, G. E. (See Hallett Manufacturing Co.)
Fiji Department of Agriculture, Suva, Fiji: (Through John W. Parham) 8 phanerogams from Fiji (250048).
Filer, Russell (See Filer’s)
Filer’s, Redlands, Calif.: (Through Russell Filer) 2 orpiment specimens from Takab, Afschar, Iran, 2 azurite specimens from Ajo, Ariz., and 28 minerals from worldwide localities (252262, 253073, exchanges).
Fine Arts Hall, Taipei, Taiwan: (Through Chinese Embassy) 4 pieces of modern embroidered textile, and 4 carved wooden panels for theater accessories (250779).
Fine Hardwoods Association, Chicago, Ill.: (Through E. Howard Gatewood) 2 MWinishield step panels (252324).
Fingerman, Dr. Milton (See Tulane University )
Finlay, John, Wilmington, Del. ; Paratype of a marine mollusk from Cuba (248727).
Finney, Dr. J. J. School of Mines)
Finucane, John H (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Firby, Dr. James R., Berkeley, Calif. : gastropods from Mineral Co., Nev.
249227).
Fischer, Dr. Roland L., East Lansing,
Mich.: 159 caddis flies from Japan and
North America (249620, 253085). (See
also Michigan State University)
Fisher, C. C. (See New Mexico Precancel Club)
Fisher, Dr. D. Jerome, Chicago, Ill: Loellingite with scorodite from Custer Mountain Lode, S. Dak. (258764).
Fisher, George G., Detroit, Mich.: 203 used and unused New Zealand postal fiscal stamps (250472).
Fisher, Mrs. Ray D., Portland, Oreg.: 16 examples of textiles, 19th century (250985).
(See Colorado

<<<Page: 164>>>

Fitch, John E. (See California, State of)
Fitzpatrick, Joseph, Jr. ginia, University of)
Fix, Carolyn E., Alexandria, Va.: Pair of Iroquois snowshoes (250941).
Fleetwood, Raymond J., Alamo, Tex. : Inch worm (249422).
Flemer, Mr. and Mrs. Carl F., Jr., Oak Grove, Va.: Carriage, ca. 1860 (254110).
Fleminger, Dr. Abraham (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Flemming, Elsie, Oriskany, N.Y.: (Through Valrita Flemming) 7 political campaign buttons (251854).
Flemming, Valrita (See Flemming, Hisie)
Flett, Harold M., Orting, Wash.: 2
(See Vir-
photographs of the SS Beaver (253536).
Flint, Dr. Oliver S., Jr., Washington, D.C.: 6,858 miscellaneous insects from eastern U.S. (253507).
Florey, Dr. Ernst, Seattle, Wash.: Centipede from Chile (253522).
Florida, State of : Board of Conservation: (Through Ronald C. Phillips) 6 marine _ invertebrates (222859) ; (through Harold W. Sims, Jr.) lobster (248695) . (Through Frank W. Mead) 19 psyllids from Florida (249999, exchange).
Florida, University of, Gainesville, Fla.: 184 phanerogams, 6 ferns, and 4 grasses (252637, exchange); (through J. L. Taylor) isopod (248032). College of Medicine: (Through Dr. John B. Reeyes) Victor portable G.E. electric X-ray machine (252888).
Florida State Board of Conservation, St. Petersburg, Fla.: (Through Dr. Robert F. Hutton) 2 parasitic copepods and a parasitic isopod (233341).
Florida State Museum, Gainesville, Fla.: (Through Wilfred T, Neill) 22 crayfishes from Japan (252138).
Florida State University, Tallahassee, Fla.: 57 phanerogams, 5 grasses, 2 ferns, and 45 cryptogams (251710, exchange) ; (through Dr. Robert K. Godfrey) 3 wood specimens and 3 phanerogams (249329, exchange); (through Dr. Henry M. Stevenson) 38 bird skins
744-993—64——_11
Depariment of Agriculture:
(250119, exchange). Canal Zone Program: (Through Horace Loftin) 3,000 fresh-water fishes from the Canal Zone (249234, exchange).
Flory, Dr. Walter S. Hxperimental Farm)
Fokides, Mrs. Kleon D. chell, Mrs. Emma Bushong)
Folch Girona, Joaquin, Barcelona, Spain: 6 minerals from New Mexico, Mexico, and Spain (253704, exchange).
Folger, Mrs. W. Frank, Washington, N.C.: 2 brackish-water clams from North Carolina (249033).
Folinsbee, Dr. R. E. University of)
Folsom, Dr. Theodore R. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Fontana, Dr. M. G. (See Ohio State University )
Forattini, Dr. Oswaldo P. (See Lane, Dr. John)
Ford, John J., Jr., New York, N.Y.: 203 American financial documents, 19th century (252073).
Foreman, Mrs. Helen P., Oberlin, Ohio: 100 Devonian radiolarian slides with finding list and a reprint of the article in which this material wag described (251098).
Fort, Tomlinson (See Westinghouse Electric Corp.)
Fort Johnson Marine Biological Laboratory, Charleston, S.C.: (Through Mrs. Norman Chamberlin) 31 polychaete worms (250393).
Fort Ticonderoga Museum, Ticonderoga, N.Y.: Colonial belt axhead from the period of the Revolution (250533).
Fortunato, Mrs. Gene, New York, N.Y.: Death mask and a recumbent bust of President Woodrow Wilson (251857).
Fox, Charles J., Denver, Colo.: 100 invertebrate fossils from the Pennsgylvanian of Colorado (252346).
Fox, Mrs. Henry J., Chevy Chase, Md.: Lithograph, Franklin’s Reception at the Court of France, 1778, by Hohenstein (250977).
Frame, Douglas M., Bethesda, Md.:
(See Blandy
(See Mit-
(See Alberta,
2 German World War II knives and a
combat badge (252388).

<<<Page: 165>>>

Frame, Prof. J. S. East Lansing, Mich.: Trimetrie ruler (252890).
Franceschetti, Alfred P., Boston, Mass.: 2 gneiss specimens from Fletcher’s Ice Island (252281).
Franclemont, Dr. J. G., Ithaca, N.Y.: 5 eaddis flies from Africa and 15 moths from Arizona (249074, 253700).
Francois, Dr. Donald D., Sydney, Australia, and Springer, Dr. Victor G., Washington, D.C.: 281 fishes, a worm, and an octopus from Australia (248675).
Frank, H. Bromley, Freeport, Fla.: 8 financial documents (249744).
Frank Paxton Lumber Co., Chicago, Ill.: (Through John Lindsey) 4 pieces of Mansonia lumber and 2 pieces of Philippine mahogany (252873).
Frankenberg, Dr. Dirk (See Georgia, University of)
Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Mrs. Robert N. Yarnall) gas engine, Otto “Silent,” ca. 1880 (250990).
Franssen, Dr. C. (See Instituut voor Plantenziektenkundig Onderzoek)
Fraser, Mrs. George B., Washington, D.C.: 18 land mollusks and 17 miscellaneous insects from Greece and Israel (2505380, 250787).
Frazier, Arthur H., Madison, Wis.: Model “623” Small Price current meter (253257).
Frederick County Civil War Centennial Association, Maryland: (Through Hon. Charles McC. Mathias, Jr.) souvenir half-dollar (248693).
Frederich, Leon, Portland, Oreg.: 5 bird skeletons (249828). Freeman, Dr. T. N.
Government of)
Freer, Dr. Ruskin §S., Lynchburg, Va.: 57 phanerogams and 3 ferns from Virginia (251714).
Friday Harbor Laboratories, Seattle, Wash.: (Through Dr. Robert L. Fernald) 2 sea anemones (250217).
Friderici, Alex A., Oklahoma City, Okla.: Fish from Colombia, S.A. (250501).
Friez, Sister M. Pierre, R.S.M., Baltimore, Md.: Letter book and bronze plaque (252814).
(See Canada,
Frishmuth, Harriet W., Norwalk, Conn.: Original plaster model for bust of President Woodrow Wilson by donor (2422934).
Frohman, Louis H., Bronxville, N.Y.: Hammond electrified multiplex typewriter (249411).
Funkhouser, Karl M., Arlington, Va.: Diopside from Montgomery Co., Md., 2 weinschenkite specimens from Vesuvius, Va., and calcite from Glamorganshire, Wales (248708, 248719, 249647) ; 60 weinschenkite and 2 calcite specimens from Virginia (248952, 249892, exchanges).
Furbish, William J., Durham, N.C.: 2 ferrimolybdite specimens from Colorado and Maine (248915).
Furlong, Rear Adm. William Rea (See Tyree, Rear Adm. David M.)
Gajdusek, Dr. D. Carleton, Bethesda, Md.: Salt packet from New Guinea (248650).
Galindo, Dr. Pedro (See Gorgas Memorial Laboratory)
Galun, Dr. Margalit University )
Gandy, Dr. B. E., Jackson, Miss.: Approximately 49 land snail eggs from Jackson (249889).
Garcia-Zorron, Dr. Noemi, Montevideo, Uruguay: 25 lichens from Uruguay (242301).
Gardner <A. Sage Library, New Brunswick, N.J.: (Through Peter N. VandenBerge) 11 volumes formerly in the Comegys Library (249397).
Garfield, Harry, Bronx, N.Y.: 4 black and white and 4 color photographs (2455538).
Garvan, Mrs. Francis P., New York, N.Y.: Pair of silver cans made by Samuel Edwards, ca. 1750, an oil painting by Thomas W. Wood, 1823-1903, a gouache by D. Y. Cameron, 1865-1945, and 33 old maps (251493).
Gates, Dr. G. E., Bangor, Maine: 18 earthworms (248288).
Gates, Prof. Robert. University )
Gates, Robert F., Alexandria, Va.: Cuprite from Bisbee, Ariz. (251084, exchange).
(See Tel-Aviv
(See American

<<<Page: 166>>>

Gatewood, E. Howard Hardwoods Association)
Gaud, Silverio Medina (See Puerto Rico, University of)
Gay, Mrs. Ellis, East Rochester, N.Y.: Letter written by Susan B. Anthony, 1876 (240749).
Gay, George H., Syosset, N.Y.: Flight jacket, Purple Heart and Navy Cross Medals, and Presidential Unit Citation
(See Fine
(258618) . Gelenczei, Dr. Emil F., Madison, Wis.: (Through Hubert A. Howson)
16-volume, limited-edition set of the works of Washington Irving (253801).
General Electric Co., Ashland, Mass.: (Through Alian L. Reagan) 2 General Hlectric clocks (249638).
General Motors Corp. La Grange, Iil.: F. T. diesel electric locomotive model, 1939, and G.P. 30 diesel electric locomotive model, 1962 (244714).
General Services Administration, Washington, D.C.: Hlectriec typewriter, IBM (254085). (See also Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
General Steel Industries (See National Museum of Transport)
Gentry, Dr. Howard Scott, Washington, D.C.: Pelote bat and mold for pelote ball from central Sinaloa, Mexico (249967).
Geologisches Institut der Universitat zu Koln, Cologne, Germany: (Through Dr. U. Jux) 250 mollusks from the upper Oligocene of Krefeld, Germany (254023, exchange).
Geophysical Research Corp., Tulsa, Okla.: (Through Dr. W. T. Born) seismic instrument unit typical of a truck installation (252301).
George Vanderbilt Foundation, Stanford, Calif.: (Through Dr. Robert R. Rofen) 19 miscellaneous insects from Thailand and 1,484 marine invertebrates (230087).
Georgia, University of, Athens, Ga.: (Through Dr. Dirk Frankenberg) 12 isopods, holotype and _ paratypes (248621) ; (through Prof. William H. Waggoner) 2 sets of chemical samples (253256).
Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Ga.: (Through Dr. W. HE. Moody) hydroxyapatite from Holly Springs, Ga. (252696, exchange).
Gerlach, Herbert W., Providence, R.I.: Shrink rule (253644).
Gerstman, Ewald H., Franklin, N.J.:
Mooreite from Sterling Hill, N.J. (253329). Géry, Dr. Jacques R., Dordogne,
France, and Axelrod, Dr. Herbert R., Jersey City, N.J.: 11 fishes, holotypes and a paratype, from South America (253460).
Gharabegian, Washington, D.C.: 2 five ryals issued by Iran, 1953-59 (248941).
Giacoma, Mrs. J. Pete, Tombstone, Ariz.: 11 photographs of Christopher Latham Sholes’ house (252881).
Gibson, Mrs., S. Perth, Western Australia: 40-gram Australite from near Gnowangerup, Western Australia (251079).
Gibson, Dr. Thomas U.S. Department of the)
Giddings, Elizabeth R., San Francisco, Calif.: 29 lace, needlework, and costume items (249010).
Giles, Edgar S., New York, N.Y.: 6 Silver spoons, snuff box, spectacles, card case, cigarette holder, mesh bag, and 5 daguerreotypes (249958).
Gillaspy, Dr. J. E., Mankato, Minn.: 2 wasps, paratypes, from North America (251605).
Gillespie, Prof. James P. Marshall University )
Gilmartin, Mrs. Amy Jean, Guayaquil, Ecuador: 278 phanerogams, grass, and 21 ferns from Ecuador (242522, 248517).
Gitz-Johansen, Aage, Trgrgd, Denmark: (Through Dr. Carlo Christensen) 52 original watercolor paintings “Birds of Greenland” (251523, deposit).
Glaser, John D., Baltimore, Md. : 1,001 ground beetles from Maryland (248926, exchange).
Glendale College, Glendale, Calif.: (Through Dr. Charles G. Danforth) 7 isopods (248616).
(See Interior,
(See

<<<Page: 167>>>

Glenn, Jerry L., Corvallis, Oreg.: 300 fresh-water mollusks from the Pleistoeene of Willamette Valley, Oreg. (250865).
Glossbrenner, A. S., (See Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co.)
Glover, Charles C., Jr., Washington, D.C.: 626 miscellaneous foreign and U.S. postal stationery cut squares, envelopes, and ecards (252361).
Glynn, Dr. Peter (See Puerto Rico, University of)
Godfrey, Dr. Robert K. (See Florida State University )
Goff, Donald, Rehoboth Beach, Del.: Shark from Delaware (249232).
Goldblatt Tool Co., Kansas City, Mo. : (Through Alex A. Levy) complete level and a machined level blank (249255).
Goldsmith, Edith, Methuen, Mass. : (Through John T. McRae) Egyptian eat mummy (251758).
Goodbody, Dr. Ivan M. sity of the West Indies)
Gooding, Dr. R. U., Boston, Mass. : 20 fishes (251936). (See also Boston Uni-
(See Univer-
versity )
Goodland, R. J. A. (See McGill University )
Goodwin, Jack S. (See Smithsonian Institution)
Goodwin, Dr. W. J., New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Alan Stone) 17 fairy shrimps from Libya (231301).
Gordon, Frances, Washington, D.C.: Postal cover from Pakistan (2538850).
Gordon, Dr. I. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Panama, Republic of Panama: 25 bird skins and 8 eggs (249228); (through Dr. Pedro Galindo) approximately 400 mammals from Panama (2538981) ; (through Mrs. Sarah B. Pipkin) 130 flies from Panama (253519).
Gosline, Dr. William A. (See Hawaii, University of)
Gottlieb, Nathan (See Normac Printing and Envelope Corp.)
Gotwald, William H., Jr., University Park, Pa.: 2 scarab beetles from Pennsylvania (250788).
Graham, Garrett R. ty Hospital)
Graham, John, South Oamaru, New Zealand: 150 Recent brachiopods from off South Island and 31 star fishes from New Zealand (250394, 253177, exchanges).
Graham, Maj. Peter J. F., Washington, D.C.: Ushabti figurine from Hgypt (254013).
Grant, Gilbert, Holly Ridge, N.C.: Marine mollusk from Topsail Beach, N.C. (254051).
Grant, J. A. Government of)
Graves, Prof. Robert C., Flint, Mich.: 20 scarab beetles from North America (258084).
Gray, Milton B. (See Sapelo Island Research Foundation, Inc.)
Gray, Randall, Woodward, Ala. (Through Dr. C. W. Copeland) favositid coral from the Middle Silurian of Alabama (251092).
Great Britain, Government of: British Museum (Natural History): 8 thrips, paratypes, 150 phanerogams, 4 grasses, and 50 lichens from Africa and Hurope (251598, 251717, 2523836, exchanges) ; (through Dr. HE. B. Britton) leaf beetle, paratype, from Central America (2503875), exchange); (through Dr. Theresa Clay) 4 slides of lice from Africa (248491, exchange) ; (through Roger W. Crosskey) 2 tachinid flies from Australia (253905) ; (through J. EH. Dandy) 7 ferns (250347, exchange) ; (through Dr. V. F. Hastop) 33 aphids on slides (249993) ; 37 aphids from Europe and Africa (250848, exchange) ; (through Dr. G. Owen Evans) centipede, paratype, from Australia (250017) ; (through Dr. I. Gordon) 151 shrimp and 25 crayfishes (250024, exchange); (through J. A. Grant) 4 Indian flower bugs (251227, exchange) ; (through R. W. Ingle) 10 stomatopods (250214, exchange); (through G. J. Kerrich) 2 chaleid flies from India (248550, exchange); (through Dr. N. A. Mackintosh) 22 copepods, including 2 paratypes (249721) ; (through Dr. G. E. J. Nixon) 12 parasitic wasps from
(See Jay Coun-
(See Great Britain,

<<<Page: 168>>>

Hurope (253081); (through Dr. Kenneth P. Oakley) plaster-of-Paris cast of the vault of a Peruvian skull (248410, exchange); (through Dr. David R. Ragge) 7 cockroaches from Africa and the West Indies (252111); 29 grasshoppers from the Old World (253923, exchange); (through Dr. William J. Rees) 3 sea anemones (252568, exchange); (through EH. R. Speyer) 8 thrips from Australia and Virginia (251228, exchange). Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food: (Through H. L. G. Strayan) 68 aphids from Iceland and England (253896, exchange). Royal Botanic Gardens: 521 phanerogams, 56 grasses, and 2 ferns (251261, 258222, exchanges). War Office, Army Medal Office: (Through Maj. Gen. R. E. T. St. John) 11 World War II service medals of Great Britain (254058).
Grebenc, Lucile, Smithville Flats, N.Y.: Woman’s beaded dress, early 1920 (253143).
Green, Mrs. Jean M. vania, University of)
Greenough, Mr. and Mrs. William, II, Washington, D.C.: Federal period sideboard (249568).
Greer, Dr. Creed C., Clarksburg, W. Va.: Black chloritie schist pipe from Ritchie Co., W. Va. (253318).
Greeson, Mr. and Mrs. Lewyl E., Arlington, Va.: (Through Otis H. Greeson) overshot coverlet (254072).
Greeson, Otis H., College Park, Md.: 4 medals of World War II (254061). (See also Greeson, Mr. and Mrs. Lewyl E.)
Gregory, N. W. (See Larus & Brother Co., Inc.)
Gressitt, Dr. J. L. seum, Bernice P.)
Grice, Dr. George D. (See Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)
Griffin, David F., Chicago, Ill.: 68 tapes, covers, and parts of covers bearing U.S. and foreign postage meter impressions (251188).
Griswold, Roger W. leable Iron Co.)
(See Pennsyl-
(See Bishop Mu-
(See Erie Mal-
Grondahl, L. O., Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through Dr. W. J. King) Grondahl, copper-cuprous oxide rectifier (252184).
Gronouski, John A. (See Post Office Department)
_Groslier, Bernard P. (See Cambodia, Kingdom of)
Gross, Dr. G. F. ernment of)
Guffey, N., Washington, D.C.: 3 topaz specimens (253769).
Guimaraes, Mrs. A. S., Dearborn, Mich. : 22 examples of costume, 1939-56 (249453).
Guinea, Government of: (Through Permanent Mission of Guinea to the United Nations) 2 first-day covers of Guinea (253885).
Guinean Trawling Survey, Lagos, Nigeria: (Through Frank Williams and Dr. Bruce B. Collette) 30 fishes (252023).
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Miss.: (Through Charles EH. Dawson) 46 copepods (2478938) ; (through Dr. Gordon Gunter) 5 mudpuppies from Lamar Co., Miss. (251294) ; (through M. Roy Hood) 4 crabs (249575).
Gulf Oil Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through Dr. R. D. Wyckoff) electromagnetic geophone and cutaway electromagnetic geophone (250522).
Gunnell, E. Mitchell, Denver, Colo.: Enargite from Ouray Co., Colo., and ecyanotrichite from Lemhi Co., Idaho (251450, exchange).
Gunning, Dr. Gerald E. University )
Gunter, Dr. Gordon, Ocean Springs, Miss. : Skull of beaked whale from Florida (2540384). (See also Gulf Coast Research Laboratory)
Gurney, Dr. Ashley B., Washington, D.C.: 436 insects from Texas and Virginia (250595, 253511, 253926). (See also Agriculture, U.S. Department of; and Walker, Dr. Thomas J., Jr.)
Gustafson, J. A. (See New England
(See Australia, Gov-
(See Tulane
Butt Co.)
Haas, Jerry A., Lexington, Ky.: (Through Sidney D. Haas) 2 World War II shoulder sleeve insignia

<<<Page: 169>>>

(250063); 8 different U.S. Navy shoulder patch insignia and photograph of the North Island Naval Air Station patch (254059).
Haas, Sidney D., Lexington, Ky.: 18 distinctive insignia of Utah National Guard and 10ist Airborne Division (250537). (See also Defense, U.S. Department of; Haas, Jerry A.; Scott, Brig. Gen. James D.; Smith, Brig. Gen. Edward P.; Taylor, Lt. Ernest; and Utah National Guard)
Haefner, Richard C., Lancaster, Pa.: 4 minerals from Lancaster Co. (248713, exchange).
Hagemeyer, Mr. and Mrs. Richard H., Washington, D.C.: 19 marine mollusks from Majuro Atoll, Marshall Islands (250526).
Haggard, L. R., Lynnwood, Wash.: Strontianite from La Conner, Wash. (249686).
Hahn, Richard J. (See Penn Township Police Department)
Haiti, Government of, Port-au-Prince, Haiti: (Through Agence Philatélique Haitienne) first-day cover bearing “Freedom from Hunger” stamp (252088).
Hak, Dr. Jaroslav, Kutna Hora, Czechoslavakia: (Through Dr. G. Kullerud) novakite, type, from Czechoslovakia (250959).
Hale, Dr. Mason E., Washington, D.C.: 1,690 lichens from Minnesota (2538065).
Hale, William H., Portsmouth, Va.: Fossil crab from Washington State (249649).
Hall, Dr. Edward T., Chicago, Ill.: 21 ethnological items from Truk Island, Micronesia (249806).
Hallett Manufacturing Co., Mobile, Ala.: (Through G. H. Field) 4 pieces of cativo lumber (258622).
Halliburton Co. Duncan, Okla.: (Through Phil Montgomery) model of marine cementing unit (253952).
Hallman, Edward N., Lakeland, Fla.: Cultivated fern (247245).
Halsey, Stephen S. (See American Express Co.)
Halsman, Philippe, New York, N.Y.: 6 photographs (250520).
Hamada, Shoji, Masakocho, Tochigi Prefecture, Japan: Ceramic vase designed and produced by donor (254070).
Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 45 first-day covers from Canada, the U.S., and United Nations (253886).
Hamilton, James Ladd, Bowie, Md.: 24 ceramic items (251755).
Hamilton Watch Co., Lancaster, Pa.: (Through D. Thomas Reel) gill scale, master balance, and 9 pieces of watchmaking machinery (248951, 249410).
Hamlin, William H., Palisades, N.Y.: 10 Foraminifera, types, from Quilcene, Wash. (252232).
Hancock, Kenneth M. (See M. S. Hancock, Inc.)
Handley, Dr. Charles O., Jr., Falls Chureh, Va.: 87 mammals from southwest Virginia (254038).
Handley, Dr. Charles O., Sr., Charleston, W. Va.: Bird skin (252341).
Hanscom, Fred O., Lebanon, Maine: (Through William J. Hartigan) 2 postal accounting documents and a Post Office Department penalty envelope, 1884 (249401).
Hansen, Harold, Washington, D.C.: 1,111 miscellaneous insects from South America (249424).
Hanson, H. S. (See Arizona, University of)
Hardin, D.C.: Wisenhower (250064).
Hardwood Corporation of America, Asheville, N.C.: (Through John B. Veach) 8 finished boards of different woods (251650).
Hardy, Dr. D. Elmo, Honolulu, Hawaii: 4 holotypes and 2 allotypes of 4 species of flies from Colombia and 140 parasitic flies from Bolivia (248929, 252476).
Seaborn D., Washington, broadside, 1944
Hardy, Jerry D., Solomons, Md.: Armadillo from Seotland Co., N.C. (251922).
Hardy, Dr. John William (See Occidental College)
Harker, Dr. Peter (See Canada, Government of)

<<<Page: 170>>>

Harlow, Prof. H. Gilbert (See Union College)
Harman, Dr. Walter J. (See Louisiana State University)
Harman, Wilbur L., Bowie, Md.: Pair of men’s suspenders, mid-19th century, and 7 fashion magazines, early 20th century (252003).
Harman, William E., Jr. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Harmantas, Christas (See Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Harmer, Walter J., Darien, Ga.: 10 marine mollusks from Darien (252257).
Harral, Henry D. (See Pennsylvania, State of)
Harrington, Dr. Eleanor S., Vero Beach, Fla.: 875 brackish-water snails from Florida (247125).
Harris, Col. Collas G., Great Falls, Va.: 25 ethnological specimens from New Guinea (249367).
Harris, Henry E., Boston, Mass.: Standard Postage Stamp album (249259).
Harris, Richard L. (See United States Lines Co.)
Harris, William D. (See Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Harry W. Dietert Co., Detroit, Mich. : (Through Jess Toth) permmeter and permeability meter (253951).
Harry Winston, Inc., New York, N.Y.: Octagon emerald-cut diamond known as the “Portuguese” diamond (244400, exchange).
Harsh, R. H., Hollywood, Md. : 2 meter impressions of Virginia (249083).
Harshaw Chemical Co., Cleveland, Ohio: (Through P. R. Pine) electrolytic cell for the production of elemental fluorine (249730).
Hart, Arch D. (See Woods Oceanographic Institution)
Hart, C. W., Philadelphia, Pa.: 60 crayfishes (249837). (See also Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia )
Hartigan, William J. (See Hanscom, Fred O.)
Hartke, Christian H., Los Angeles, Calif.: 8 items, consisting of Allen and Wheelock rifle, accessories, and docu-
Hole
ments supporting ownership by John Brown (245395).
Hartley, Charles F., Royal Oak, Mich.: 525 miscellaneous flies from Thailand (250590).
Hartman, Dr. Olga (See Southern California, University of)
Hartman, Mrs. P. C., Washington, D.C.: 3 dolls (258331).
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.: 4 grasses from the Bahamas (248496); (through Dr. Howard H. Evans) 16 wasps, including types, from North America (251059, exchange) ; (through Dr. I. Mackenzie Lamb) 5 lichens from South America (228643). Botanical Museum: Phanerogam, isotype (253234, exchange). Gray Herbarium: 109 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 10 ferns (251259, exchange); 7 fragments and photographs of fern types from New Guinea (253235, exchange) ; (through Dr. Rolla M. Tryon) 174 miscellaneous ferns (249976, exchange). Museum of Comparative Zoology: (Through Dr. William J. Clench) 5,623 miscellaneous fresh-water and marine mollusks mostly from New England (249431, 249523, exchanges) ; (through Dr. P. J. Darlington) caddis fly from Panama (249427, exchange) ; (through Dr. Howard EH. Evans) 96 wasps from North and South America (248973) ; (through Drs. Giles W. Mead and Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 2 fishes from French Guiana (249468).
Harvard University, President and Fellows of, Cambridge, Mass. : (Through Dr. L. Gard Wiggins) 16 components of the Harvard-IBM Mark I automatic sequence controlled calculator (248831).
Harvey, Dr. O. L., Silver Spring, Md.: 7,080 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign postage stamps, covers, and related philatelie items (249855).
Hashimoto, Dr. Hiroshi, Shimoda, Shizuoka Pref., Japan: 10 flies from Japan (250008, exchange).
Hasse, William F., Jr., New Haven, Conn.: 132 stock certificates, bonds, checks, and other financial papers (253095).

<<<Page: 171>>>

Hatch, John Davis, Lenox, Mass.: (Through Dr. Richard H. Howland) 39 political campaign items relating to Wendell L. Willkie and Franklin D. Roosevelt (253828).
Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Curitiba, Parani, Brazil: 205 phanerogams and 10 grasses from Brazil (248359, 248655, 249981, 2503835, 252661).
Hattenschwiler, Peter, Greenville, S.C.: 5 bagworm moths from North America (251571, exchange) ; 8 moths from North America (253080).
Hattin, Dr. Donald, Bloomington, Ind.: (Through Dr. Erle G. Kauffman) 4 invertebrate fossils from Graneras shale near Beloit, Kans. (249052).
Hattori, Dr. Sinske (See Hattori Botanical Laboratory)
Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Obi, Nichinan, Miyazaki Pref., Japan: (Through Dr. Sinske Hattori) 101 mosses from Japan (253228, exchange).
Hauck, Richard, Bloomfield, N.J.:
Jamesonite from Ontario, Canada
(251816).
Havas, George D. (See Library of Congress)
Hawaii, University of, Honolulu, Hawaii: (Through Dr. William A. Gosline) 11 fishes from Hawaii (248608).
Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Assoc., Honolulu, Hawaii: (Through John W. Beardsley) 20 small moths from Hawaii (248932).
Hayashi, Dr. S. Kinichi)
Hays, Raymond, Jr., Hyattsville, Md. : 10 Japanese wooden rulers (249215). (See also Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.: Food and Drug Administration: (Through Raymond Hays, Jr.) 8 bottles of thalidomide drug samples (251482) ; (through L. Shelton) 5 fishes from Iceland (249233) ; (through Robert Thompson) fish from Argentina (247901). National Institutes of Health: 2 steppe lemmings (254037). Public
(See Sakurai, Dr.
Health Service: (Through Dr. F. F. Ferguson) 50 fresh-water and land snails from Puerto Rico and Surinam (218395); (through Dr. William L. Jellison) 12,780 fleas and a raccoon from North America (253895, 254041) ; (through Dr. Robert L. Rausch) skulls of 2 polar bears from St. Lawrence Island (254036) ; (through Dr. Conrad E. Yunker). 565 lice from Panama and a erab (249018, 252856); (through Dr. Conrad E. Yunker and Dr. Alexander Wetmore) bird skin (252471).
Hean, Mrs. Mary, Hyattsville, Md.: Collar, gloves, and comb, early 1920 (252447).
Heatwole, Dr. Harold, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico: 4 water scavenger beetles from Venezuela (252413).
Heefner, Dr. Mark L., Treasure Island, Fla.: (Through Mrs. Mark L. Heefner) dentures carved of ivory (253642).
Heefner, Mrs. Mark L. (See Heefner, Dr. Mark L.)
Heilman, Robert A., Lebanon, Pa.: 134 mosses, 2 phanerogams, 76 ferns, and 38 cryptogams from Pennsylvania (253067, 253812).
Heim, Prof. Roger, Paris, France: Bronze medal (252083).
Heller, Friedrich (See Staatliches Museum fiir Naturkunde in StuttgartZweigstelle)
Helsinki, University of, Helsinki, Finland: (Through Dr. Teuvo Ahti) 450 lichens (253068, exchange).
Hendersen, Dr. Edward P., Washington, D.C.: 1,017 grams of the Bendegé meteorite from Brazil (253929).
Hendricks, Roy (See Thomsen, Mrs. C. N.)
Henry, Dr. Robert L. (See Wabash College)
Heraldic Art, Cleveland, Ohio: commemorative medallions (25386387).
Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 721 phanerogams and 211 grasses from Brazil (248248, 251298, 253804) ; (through Father Raulino Reitz) 210 mosses from Santa Catarina (248242).

<<<Page: 172>>>

Herbarium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indonesia: 2,880 phanerogams, 6 grasses, and 2 ferns from Indonesia (250808, exchange).
Herbarium Bradeanum, Guanabara, Brazil: 322 phanerogams from Brazil (248080).
Herber, Dr. E. C., Carlisle, Pa.: 12 fresh-water snails from North Carolina and Tennessee (248878).
Herman, Dr. Sidney S. (See Lehigh University )
Hermann, Dr. Frederick J., Adelphi, Md.: 92 phanerogams, 945 cryptogams, 278 bryophytes, and a fern (249332, 252833, 253066).
Herreid, Dr. Clyde F., Alaska, University of)
Hewitt, Dr. R. E. (See Carnegie Institution of Washington)
Heyamoto, H. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Hibbard, Dr. Claude W. gan, University of)
Hicks, Steacy D. University of)
Higbee, Richard C. Instrument Co.)
Higgins, Dr. Robert P. Forest College)
Higham, Dr. Robin, Chapel Hill, N.C. : Pair of British flying boots and goggles and an MK IV first-aid outfit, World War II (248382).
Hill, A.C., North Oxford, England: Marconi television receiver, 1937-38 (2463849).
Hill, Lewis H. (See Chicago, City of)
Hill 50 Gold Mine, Mount Magnet, Western Australia: (Through UL. Checker) gold ore from Mount Magnet (251078).
Hill School, Pottstown, Pa. (Through Charles C. Whiteley) slice of the Canyon Diablo meteorite from Arizona (254021).
Hilton, Omar (See Potlatch Forest, Inc.)
Hiltunen, Jarl K. Department of the)
Hinckley, Dr. Alden D., Nausori, Fiji: 5 earwigs from Fiji (248923).
II (See
(See Michi(See Rhode Island, (See Belfort
(See Wake
(See Interior, U.S.
Hinton, Dr. H. E., Bristol, England: 4 beetles, paratypes, from Mexico (252873).
Historical Documents Co., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Charles Promislo) 89 modern antiqued reproductions of Colonial and Revolutionary currency, early New York notes, Republic of Texas currency, and Confederate notes (253097).
Ho, T. Y. (See China, Government of the Republic of)
Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 22 crayfishes (248882, 250211). (See also Johnson, Dr. Rose Mary)
Hodges, Dr. R. W. U.S. Department of)
Hodgkin, Dr. W. H. Mrs. Walter V.)
Hodson, Frank A., Washington, D.C.: Wellington #2 typewriter (249566).
Hoese, H. D. (See Texas, University of)
Hoffer, Dr. A., Prague, Czechoslovakia: 100 chaleid flies from Europe (253505, exchange).
Hoffman, Dr. Richard L., Blacksburg, Va.: 230 miscellaneous insects, including holotypes and paratypes, from North America (250597, 252477, 253521, 253920, 253922). (See also Radford College)
Hoffman, Victor J., Tucson, Ariz.: 5 natrolite specimens from San Benito Co., Calif., and approximately 80 miscellaneous minerals from Tiger, Ariz. (251882, exchange).
Hoffman, Mrs. Wyn, Juneau, Alaska: (Through Dr. Robert B. Short) 4 slides of fossils, including syntypes and paratypes, from the Mesozoic of Washington (249942).
Hoffmeister, J. Edward (See Rochester, University of)
Hoffstatter, Ferdinand, Beuel-Limperich bei Bonn, Germany : 7 contemporary bronze and silver medals and plaquettes manufactured by donor’s establishment (249849).
Hogans, Mrs. Henry, Evansville, Wis.: Paisley shawl, 1868 (249936).
(See Agriculture,
(See Bingham,

<<<Page: 173>>>

Holloway, George, Northridge, Calif. : Beryl from Brazil (246603, exchange).
Holmes, James S., Washington, D.C.: Pair of stirrups from Japan and 2 bronze handles (249808).
Holmgren, Dr. Arthur H. State University )
Holsinger, John R. University of)
Holt, Dr. Perry C. Polytechnic Institute)
Holtzclaw, Henry J. U.S. Department of the)
Homan, Bill H., New York, N.Y.: 21,743 philatelic specimens of Paraguay, including stamps, proofs, essays, and drawings (2520386).
Honduras, Government of: Armed Forces: (Through Maj. Cecilio B. Castro) Gatling gun (254053).
Honea, Prof. Russell M. (See Colorado, University of)
Hood, M. Roy (See Gulf Coast Research Laboratory; and William Carey College)
Hoogland, Dr. R. D. (See Australia, Government of)
Hoolbaans, A. (See Netherlands, Government of the)
Hooper, Mrs. Curtis J., Fairfield, Conn.: Handwoven coverlet (250524).
Hoover, Edna (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
Hopkins, Mr. and Mrs. Robert O. D., Contoocook, N.H.: 5 pieces of Chinese currency issued during the 20th century (248938) ; 161 engravings, collection of proofs, and 3 essays, mostly from China (249157, 249164, 251474).
Hoppin, Mrs. William W., New York,
(See Utah (See Kentucky, (See Virginia
(See Treasury,
N.Y.: Group of early embroideries, yarns, skeins of silk and canvas (252370).
Hornick, Rose Mary, Arlington, Va.: 2 used stamps of Poland (2533855).
Horowitz, Dr. Alan, Littleton, Colo.: 500 invertebrate fossils from the Upper Devonian of the Northwest Territories, Canada, and 500 brachiopods from the Mississippian of Lake Valley, N. Mex. (253927).
Hostrup, C. C., Wood Acres, Md.: Telescope, late 19th century, binoculars,
ca. 1880, and drawing instruments, ca. 1860 (251004).
Hough, Helen Y., Washington, D.C.: 2 fragments from the Star Spangled Banner which flew over Fort McHenry (249545).
Houston, Walter S, Middletown, Conn.: 49 grams of Seguin, Kans., meteorite (251082).
Howard, Mrs. Faye B. (See Santa Barbara Museum of Natural History)
Howe, D. F., Chula Vista, Calif.: Grass from California (251723).
Howell, John Thomas (See California Academy of Sciences)
Howland, Dr. Richard H., Washington, D.C.: Forgery of “Minoan” sealstone from Crete (249962) ; 2 receipted bills of 1863 and 1865 (250458) ; ancient bronze coin and modern silver coin (251155) ; 2 overshot coverlet fragments (251665) ; 103 covers, foreign postage stamps, and foreign covers (253878). (See also Hatch, John Davis)
Howland, W. O. (See Wayne Pump Co.)
Howson, Hubert A., New York, N.Y.: Minute book of the Jorum Club and A Jorum Idyl, book privately printed in Philadelphia, 1884 (253800). (See also Gelenezei, Dr. Emil F.)
Hubbard, D. L. (See Fairfax County Police Department)
Hubbs, Dr. Carl L. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography )
Hubricht, Leslie, Meridian, Miss. : 446 marine invertebrates, 11 reptiles, 9 fishes, 188 fresh-water mollusks, and a mammal from Louisiana and Mississippi (248035, 251024).
Huddle, John (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Hudson, Dr. George E., Pullman, Wash.: 15 alcoholic birds (245242, exchange).
Hueber, Dr. Francis M. (See Case, Mr. and Mrs. Jean)
Hughes, Mrs. Henry J., Schuylerville, N.Y.: (Through Old Saratoga Historical Association of Schuylerville, New York, Inc.) length of printed cotton fabrie (251661).

<<<Page: 174>>>

Hull, George, Washington, D.C.: Token issued in the name of George III, 1788 (251165).
Hull, Mary Ann (See Rigsby, Kathee)
Hulm, Dr. John K. (See Westinghouse Electric Corp.)
Humboldt State College, Arcata, Calif.: (Through Dr. Fred Telonicher) gorgonian (231137).
Humes, Dr. Arthur G., Boston, Mass. : 2 fishes from Madagascar (250814). (See also Boston University; and Institut de Recherche Scientifique 4 Madagascar)
Hummelinck, Dr. P. Wagenaar (See Zoologisch Laboratorium )
Humphrey, Dr. Philip S., Washington, D.C.: 3 miscellaneous insects from Brazil (250582). (See also Smithsonian Institution)
Hunt, Florence Blanche (deceased) : (Through Mrs. Thomas J. Doyle) double-woven Jacquard coverlet (251662).
Hunter, Dr. George W., III, Gainesville, Fla.: 220 land and fresh-water mollusks from Costa Rica (248423).
Huntzinger, David H., American Fork, Utah: 77 caddis flies, ant lions, stoneflies, and dragonflies from Utah (250596, 251239).
Hurd, Dr. Paul D., Jr. (See California, University of)
Husband, Dr. Robert W., East Lansing, Mich.: 4 land snails from Honolulu, Hawaii (244509).
Husseini, Mohammed Adbullah, Karachi, Pakistan: 104 marine and freshwater mollusks, 36 specimens and 7 lots of marine invertebrates, 3 brachiopods, 28 specimens and 4 lots of reptiles and amphibians, 5 lots of fishes, mammals, geological specimens from the vicinity of Karachi, and 12 miscellaneous insects from Asia (246660, 249776, 251074, 251602).
Hutcheson, Jack, Selma, Ala.: Tooth of shark from the Upper Cretaceous of Alabama (250896).
Hutchins, Dr. R. E. (See Mississippi, University of)
Hutton, Dr. Robert F. (See Florida State Board of Conservation)
Hynd, W. R. B., Surrey, England: 9 lacewings from England (251241, exchange).
Iliff, Dr. and Mrs. Charles, Baltimore, Md.: Stained-glass window (251654).
Illinois Natural History Survey: Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr. Hugh B. Cunningham) 23 phanerogams and 6 grasses from Colombia (251998).
Improvement of Insect Collection Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 218 miscellaneous beetles from Brazil (251618).
Imshaug, Dr. Henry (See Michigan State University)
India, Government of: Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi: (Through Dr. S. Pradhan) 21 miscellaneous insects from India (252716, exchange). Forest Research Institute: (Through K. Ramesh Rao) 101 wood specimens from India (249834, exchange).
Ingle, R. W. Government of)
Institut de Recherche Scientifique a Madagascar, Tananarive, Madagascar: (Through Dr. Arthur G. Humes) 54 copepods, types (250392).
Institute of the Biology of Inland Waters, Jaroslavl, U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. Mordukhai-Boltovskoi) 52 polychaete worms from the _ U.S.S.R. (248899, exchange).
Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica: 259 phanerogams, 27 grasses, and 2 ferns from the Lesser Antilles and Jamaica (249812, 251718, exchanges); (through Dr. Thomas H. Farr) 40 flies and 7 lacewings from Jamaica (250099, 252857).
Institute of Marine Science, Miami, Fla.: (Through Sheldon Dobkin) 5 shrimps from Florida (251879); (through Dr. E. 8. Iversen) photozoan, type (249012); (through Walter A. Starck II) 2 shrimps and an axiid (251443).
Instituto de Botanica, Sio Paulo, Brazil: 5 phanerogams (248668); 138 phanerogams from Brazil (250340, exchange); (through Dr. George Hiten)
(See Great Britain,

<<<Page: 175>>>

88 phanerogams, 309 grasses, and 10 ferns from Brazil (251676).
Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogati, Colombia: 6 ferns from Colombia (249782).
Instituto de Investigacion de Zonas Desérticas, San Luis Potosi, Mexico: 2 phanerogams, isotype and paratype (251725).
Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Manaus, Brazil: 282 plants from Brazil (250109).
Instituto Oceanografico, Cumana, Venezuela: (Through Dr. Pedro Roa Morales) 6 parasitic isopods (232925).
Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 6 phanerogams from Brawil (251268).
Instituto Politecnico Nacional, Mex-
ico, D.F.: 3 grasses from Mexico (251483); 266 phanerogams, 24 grasses, and a fern from Mexico
(252777, exchange).
Instituut voor Plantenziektenkundig Onderzoek, Wageningen, Netherlands: (Through Dr. C. Franssen) 19 thrips from the Netherlands (252917, exchange).
Insular Lumber Sales Corp., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through J. L. Stearns) 6 pieces of dark red Philippine mahogany (253956).
Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Drs. W. L. Klawe and Gilbert L. Voss) 29 cephalopods from Alaska (251921).
Inter-Governmental Philatelic Corp., New York, N.Y.: 2 mint stamps of Nigeria (252041).
Interior, U.S. Department of the, Washington, D.C.: Fish and Wildlife Service: 15 phanerogams and grass from the Northwest Territories collected by H. W. Murdy (253225) ; 791 bird skins, 85 skeletons, and a nest (258986) ; (through F. H. Berry) 10 fishes from Baja California, Mexico (248574) ; (through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 3 marine mollusks from the Gulf of Mexico and 97 miscellaneous marine invertebrates (249253, 250496); (through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and Dr. Daniel M. Cohen) 5,761 fishes from various
localities, 4 lots of sea anemones, 1 lot of crabs, and 1 lot of amphipods (247715) ; (through Dr. Randall P. Cheek) fish (252202) ; (through Hugene Cypert) 2 spotted turtles from Waycross, Ga., a spotted sucker from Okefenokee, and 77 fishes from various localities (249510, 250199); (through Join H. Finucane) 6 fishes from the Gulf of Mexico (251354); (through H. Heyamoto) 10 sharks from the North Pacifie (252189); (through Jarl K. Hiltunen) 50 polychaete worms (251357) ; (through Susumu Kato) shark jaw from the eastern Pacific (249124) ; (through Harry D. Kennedy) 31 water beetles from California (252474) ; (through Willis King) fish from Green River, Echo Park, Utah (249485) ; (through Dr. Joseph Kutkuhn and Harry L. Cook) 3 shrimps (237518) ; (through Dr. Richard H. Manville) 2,382 bats, mostly from northeastern South America, from the Arthur M. Greenhall collection and 251 mammals from North America (254042, 254045); (through Dr. George C. Miller) 3 crayfishes (250884) ; (through Clarence F. Pautzke) sheet of Migratory Bird Hunting stamps, 1963-64, and die proof (251187); (through Dr. Walter T. Pereyra) 7 deep-sea marine mollusks from Oregon (249829) ; (through Dr. Dale W. Rice) whale vertebra from the Marshall Islands (254033); (through Dr. George B. Saunders) 48 marine invertebrates, and a vial of frog eggs (232144); (through Paul J. Struhsaker) fish (2538129) ; (through John R. Thompson) 5 mud shrimps (2338245). Geological Survey: 10 fossil specimens from the Eocene of Montana (203629); 3 metamorphic aragonite-bearing rocks (250404) ; fossil teeth from the Upper Devonian to Pennsylvanian and Permian of Fremont Co., Wyo. (250808, 254026); 3 dermal tesserae of fishes (280805) ; 14 fish remains from the Permian of Wyoming (254027); (through Dr. Arthur A. Baker) fragmentary shark tooth and 2 minute dental caps from Dona Ana Co., N. Mex. (246961) ; head

<<<Page: 176>>>

and anterior body part of pirate perch and scales of sucker from the Miocene of Washington (246963) ; 10 killifishes from the late Pliocene of Nevada (246964) ; 1,207 minerals from worldwide localities (247298, 248193); 7 vertebrate fossils from the Humboldt Range, Nev. (248037) ; approximately 150 kimseyite specimens from Magnet Cove, Ark. (251777); (through Dr. W. A. Cobban) 46 type specimens of Upper Cretaceous fossils (252822) ; (through J. Thomas Dutro, Jr.) 29 slabs and specimens of invertebrate fossils from southwest Virginia and the Mesozoic of New Mexico (248722, 248723); (through Richard C. Erd) buddingtonite, type, from California (250047) ; (through Dr. Thomas Gibson) 45 invertebrate fossils and 3 hard eorals collected by Gosnold Cruise 29 (250409, 250498) ; (through William E. Harman, Jr.) Zeiss horizon aerial camera and related equipment (250978) ; (through John Huddle) 114 conodonts from the Upper Devonian of the Great Basin (250057); (through Dr. Harry S. Ladd) 13 corals from the Fiji Islands and Hawaii (251767, 252987); (through Dr. Thomas B. Nolan) 11 minerals from near Lake George, Park Co., Colo. (249728) ; (through W. A. Oliver, Jr.) 6 corals from the Ordovician of Alaska (252353) ; (through Dr. A. R. Palmer) 310 trilobites, types and figured, from Alabama to Nevada (249226, 249451) ; (through R. J. Ross, Jr.) 16 trilobites, type and paratype, from the Seward Peninsula (252348); (through Dr. William J. Sando) 14 corals from Arizona and 17 fossil specimens (251769, 253531) ; (through Dr. Robert S. Sigafoos) 8,256 phanerogams, 822 grasses, and 276 ferns from Alaska (253058) ; (through Norman Sohl) 8 pelecypods (250060) ; (through Dr. I. G. Sohn) 28 slides containing ostracodes, including types (252349, 252352); (through Dr. Dwight W. Taylor), 3,800 fresh-water mussels from northwest U.S. (255867) ; (through Ruth Todd) 119 Foraminif-
era, including 18 slides, metatypes, from the Central Pacific, Martha’s Vineyard Island, Mass., Upper Cretaceous, lower to middle Hocene and lower Miocene near Port-Gentil, Gabon (249448, 249449, 249450); (through George D. Whitmore) 6 projectors, Zeiss tracing table, multiplex table and support frames, and Wilson photoalidade (249407) ; (through Dr. Druid Wilson) 3 Tertiary barnacles (252347) ; (through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson) invertebrate fossil from Eureka Co., Nev., and paratype of a gastropod (249651, 253532). National Park Service: (Through William C. Bullard) 7 freshwater mollusks from Death Valley, Calif. (246939); (through L. Kay Thomas) phanerogam (248666).
International Business Machines Corp., New York, N.Y.: (Through D. R. McKay) replica of Charles Babbage’s Difference Engine (252309).
International Truss Plate Corp., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.: (Through Maurice Dufficy) 2 Pow-R-Lock plates, 2 Denwood truss connectors, and gang nails (252871).
Ireton, Patricia (See Rhode Island, University of)
Irwin, Dr. Howard S., New York, N.Y.: 28 phanerogams and grass from Mexico (251262).
Isham, Lawrence B., Washington, D.C.: Postal cover from Germany (253891).
Israel, Bank of, Jerusalem, Israel: (Through E. Kaplansky) 10 printings of notes issued by donor from 1955-60 (250076).
Israel, Government of: (Through Dr. Y. Lavi) 6 plaster casts of Hebrew weights (250511). Ministry of Post: 28 mint stamps and 24 first-day covers (253855).
Istituto Elettrotecnico Nazionale Galileo Ferraris (See Associazione Blettroteenica ed Elettronica Italiana)
Iversen, Dr. E. S. (See Institute of Marine Science)
Iverson, Suzanne, Cajamarca, Peru: 19 ferns from Peru (251884).

<<<Page: 177>>>

Ives, Mrs. Herbert Eugene, Upper Montclair, N.J.: Photographic material of Frederic H. and Herbert E. Ives (251656) .
J. L. Cunningham & Co., Chicago, Tll.: (Through J. Lester Cunningham) 24 snails from the Pennsylvanian of Farmington, Ill. (236301, exchange).
Jackson, Mrs. John Early, Arlington, Va.: Printed wall hanging from Iran
(249966).
Jackson, Robert D., Washington, D.C.: 7 meadow mice from Maryland (254039) .
Jacobs, Madelyn E., Washington,
D.C.: 263 miscellaneous used and unused foreign postage stamps (252035, 252356).
Jago, John B., San Francisco, Calif. : Roquesite from France and calumetite
from Houghton Co., Mich. (250450, 254017, exchanges); scapolite from Madagascar (253524).
James, Edward O., Charleston,
W. Va.: 740 pieces of mining scrip and related items (251147).
James, Dr. Maurice T., Pullman, Wash.: 2 snipe flies from North America (252851).
Japan, Government of: Geological Survey of Japan: (Through Dr. Masatsugu Saitoh) 4 minerals from various localities (253768, exchange). Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 8 ethnological items from Japan (251039). Ministry of Posts and _ Telecommunications: (Through Shoichi Sato) colored prints, Japan’s First Post Office Department and Nihonbashi Telegraph Office (253869).
‘Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 9 sheets of phanerogams from Brazil (225395).
Jardin Botanico, Madrid, Spain: 58 phanerogams, 6 grasses, and a fern from Spain (249322, exchange).
Jay County Hospital, Portland, Ind.: (Through Garrett R. Graham) Victor X-ray machine (251549).
Jeanell, Dr. Rene, Paris, France: 63 ground beetles from Africa (249054, exchange).
Jellison, Dr. William L., Hamilton, Mont. : 16 bat flies (251222). (See also Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Jennings, A., Nadi Airport, Fiji Islands: 40 marine mollusks from the Fiji Islands (248214).
Jersey Production Research Co., Tulsa, Okla.: (Through R. EH. Rohn) 36 slides containing type specimens of fossil spores and pollen from West Africa (248285).
Jewett, Kenneth E., Peterborough, N.H.: Jewett collection of tinware (251349).
Jewett, Dr. Stanley G., Jr., Portland, Oreg.: 632 miscellaneous moths and 2,421 caddis flies and stoneflies from North America (287811, 249626, 250685).
Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominican Republic: 18 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and a fern (251256).
Johansson, Edward, Birmingham, Mich.: Set of Johansson gauge blocks (254088) .
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Dr. Ernst Cloos) approximately 3,700 fossils from the Cambro-Ordovician through Cretaceous of Maryland (210512, exchange).
Johnsen, Lt. Richard E. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Johnson, Charles E., Washington, D.C.: Bronze paperweight and autograph book containing interesting autographs and memory verses (250460) ; tile bearing likeness of William Jennings Bryan, William H. MHarrison medal, and program of ceremonies “1789 The Washington Inauguration 1889”’ (258357) ; book, The Roosevelé Bears and Their Travels and Adventures, and stick pin with teddy bear (258826).
Johnson, Dr. D. S. versity of)
Johnson, Dr. David H., Washington, D.C.: 7 mammals and a bird from yvarious localities (254040).
(See Malaya, Uni

<<<Page: 178>>>

Johnson, Letitia Gillespie, Rome, Ga.: Menu from a dinner given in honor of President and Mrs. Grover Cleveland (249264).
Johnson, Dr. Martin W. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Johnson, Mrs. R. C., Jr., San Francisco, Calif.: 2 ladies’ collars (242440).
Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. L., (address unknown): Pair of English side chairs (249394).
Johnson, Dr. Rose Mary, Fredericksburg, Va.: (Through Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.) 7 crayfishes (249120).
Johnson, Roy, Jr., Monterey, Calif. : 2 centipedes from California (253142).
Joint Committee on the Preservation of the Garrick Building Ornament and World Book Encyclopedia, Chicago, Tll.: (Through Joseph Benson) 7 lots of architectural ornaments (245916).
Jondahl, Alfred, Fort Lee, N.J.: 2 first-day covers bearing stamps of Argentina honoring President John F. Kennedy (253639).
Jones, James R., New York, N.Y.: Libyan camel saddlebag and 13 stone tools (249458).
Jones, Dr. Meredith L. (See American Museum of Natural History)
Jones, Richard L., Casa Grande, Ariz.: 8 brochantite and 3 azurite specimens from Silver Hill, Ariz. (2538743).
Josiah Wedgwood & Sons, Ltd., Stokeon-Trent, England: (Through Sir John Hamilton Wedgwood) creamware dinner plate (253624).
Joy Manufacturing Co., Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through J.D.A. Morrow) 2 propellers from the first axial flow coalmine fan (252790).
Julian, Mrs. Richard S., Pell Lake, Wis.: 53 U.S. Naval items (253327).
Justice, U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.: Federal Bureau of Investigation: Partial skeleton, with skull, of an Indian from Nevada (252465).
Jux, Dr. U. (See Geologisches Institut der Universitat zu K6ln)
Kabata, Dr. Z. (See Marine Laboratory)
Kale, Dr. Herbert W., II, Athens, Ga.: 27 brackish-water mollusks recovered
from the stomach of a bird from North Carolina (251627).
Kamijo, Dr. K., Bibai, Hokkaido, Japan: 3 chalcid flies from Japan (248931, exchange).
Kano, Dr. Rokuro, Tokyo, Japan: 31 flies (250710).
Kanouse, Essie (deceased); (Through Mrs. Addie Niswanner) black-lace shawl, 1849 (250312).
Kansas, University of, Lawrence, Kans.: Phanerogam, isotype (248678) ; 197 phanerogams, 348 grasses, and 2 ferns (252841, exchange); (through Dr. C. D. Michener) 11 bees, paratypes, from Australia and 6 bees from North America (231991, exchange).
Kaplansky, E. (See Israel, Bank of)
Kappel. F. R. (See American Telephone and Telegraph Co.)
Kato, Susumu (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Kauffman, Dr. Erle G. (See Hattin, Dr. Donald; and Shuler, Jay)
Kay, Dr. Alison, Honolulu, Hawaii: Paratype of a marine mollusk from Kauai (252260).
Keally, Mrs. Mildred Tabor, New York, N.Y.: Jade bowl and cover (248671).
Keck, Darvin W., Oklahoma City, Okla.: 74 lichens from Oklahoma (249978, exchange).
Keeton, Dr. William T., Ithaca, N.Y.: 86 centipedes from Mexico and the U.S. (249248).
Kehr, Dr. Karl H., Bogoté, Colombia : Phanerogam from Colombia (253232).
Kelly, Kenneth L., Bethesda, Md.: 305 miscellaneous used and unused U.S. and foreign postage stamps and 5 covers (249399, 250078); assortment of personal memorabilia of Drs. H. F. Kelly and Ida Johanna MHeiberger (249415).
Kelso, Dr. James L., Pittsburgh, Pa.: Plaster cast of South Arabian stamp (251754).
Kemsies, Dr. Emerson (See Cincinnati, University of)
Kennedy, Daniel B., Washington, D.C.: Hel pot from Potomac Indians and 7 photographs (249634).

<<<Page: 179>>>

Kennedy, Harry D., Bishop, Calif.: 214 caddis flies from California (251238, 251240). (See also Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Kent State University, Kent Ohio,: (Through Dr. Ralph W. Dexter) 2,113 miscellaneous invertebrates, sea anemone, and a hermit crab (220289, 246976).
Kentucky, University of, Lexington, Ky.: (Through Dr. William D. Ehmann) 38.7 grams and a thin polished section of the Walltown meteorite (251080, exchange) ; (through John R. Holsinger) 10 crayfishes (250139).
Kerckhoff Marine Laboratory, Corona Del Mar, Calif.: (Through Dr. Willis EH. Pequegnat) 95 sea anemones (227178).
Kerrich, G. J. Government of)
Kerr-McGee Oil Industries, Ine., Oklahoma City, Okla.: (Through A. T. F. Seale) Kerr-McGee offshore drilling rig 54 (253823).
Kerzhner, Dr. I. M., Leningrad, U.S.S.R.: 4 water striders from China and Viet-Nam (249624).
Kessler, Seymour, Levittown, N.Y.: 6 philatelic specimens (252362).
Keyes, Ian (See New Zealand, Government of)
Kielan-Jaworowska, Dr. Zofia Polska Akademia o0zoologi)
Kier, Dr. Porter M., Washington, D.C.: 40 echinoderms from South Carolina (252575).
Kimball, C. P., West Barnstable, Mass.: 81 moths from North America (2538518).
King, Elbert A., Jr. (See National Aeronautics and Space Administration )
King, George, Fairfax, Va.: 7 firstday covers and programs (253863).
King, Mrs. M. E., Honolulu, Hawaii: 18 marine mollusks from the Philippines and 3 from western Australia (234219, 244542).
King, Col. Norman D. Islands)
King, Dr. Robert M., Frederick, Md.: 8 reptiles and 19 land snails from Thai-
(See Great Britain,
(See Nauk Zaklad Pale-
(See Ryukyu
land (248975, 251465) ; 11 Hong Kong
and Malaya contemporary coins (250467).
King, Dr. W. J. (See Grondahl, L. O.)
King, Willis partment of the)
Kingsolver, Dr. John M., Washington, D.C.: 5,562 miscellaneous beetles from Central and North America (249063, 251233).
Kinley, Mrs. Clara, Arlington, Va.: Jacquard woven bookmark and picture (253955) .
Kirkby, Mrs. Ruth A., Bloomington, Calif. : 250 invertebrate fossils from the Pleistocene and Tertiary of California (251453, 251924).
Kirov Order Lenin Forest Academy, Leningrad, U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. A. A. Yatsenko-Khmelevsky) 17 wood specimens from the U.S.S.R. (249088, exchange).
Kissinger, Dr. D. G., South Lancaster, Mass.: 33 £4beetles from Florida (250609) ; 38 weevils from the U.S. (253915, exchange).
Klaben, Mrs. Tillye Braun, Washington, D.C.: Pair of shoes, 1887 (253266).
Klawe, Dr. W. L., La Jolla, Calif.: 2 heads of porpoise from the eastern Pacific (248218). (See also InterAmerican Tropical Tuna Commission)
Klein, Gershon, Bronx, N.Y.: 2/3 taler struck in 1765 in the name of Charles of Brunswick-Wolfenbuettel, 1735-80 (249847).
Klein, Marvin, Islamorada, Fla. : 19thcentury brass spike recovered by donor from Alligator Reef, Fla. (249547).
Klement, Dr. Oscar, Leutkirch, Germany: 3 cryptogams (251775).
Klinger, J. (See Klinger Scientific Apparatus Corp.)
Klinger Scientific Apparatus Corp., Jamaica, N.Y.: (Through J. Klinger) 4 models of crystalline forms of element “iron” (249256).
Klink, Granville Broadeasting System Radio)
Kloss, Dr. Gertrud Rita partmento de Zoologia)
(See Iuterior, U.S. De-
(See Columbia and WtTOP-
(See De

<<<Page: 180>>>

Knerer, Gerd, College Park, Md.: 16| and 19 phanerogams from western U.S.
sawflies from Hurope (249057).
Knez, Mrs. Eugene I., Washington, D.C.: Chinese ink bottle (253321).
Knobloch, Dr. Irving (See Michigan State University )
Knutson, Dr. L. V., Ithaca, N.Y.: 5 caddis flies from Crete (249077).
Kobayashi, Dr. Keisuke, Nada-Ku (Rokko), Kobe, Japan: Bird skin (249455, exchange).
Kohn, Dr. Alan J., Seattle, Wash.: Marine mollusk from Alligator Harbor, Fla. (248933).
Koney, E. J., Burlingame, Calif, : Russian post card picturing home of Anton Chekhov and bearing 2 stamps (252357).
Kono, Tokuwo (See California, State of)
Kopf, Irving, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 18 used stamps of Cambodia, 3 used and 8 mint stamps of Thailand (253640).
Korea, Government of: Forest Eaperiment Station, Seoul, Korea: (Through Sung Yun Lee) 56 wood specimens from Korea (249221, exchange).
Kormann, Kurt, Karlsruhe, Germany: 153 dragonflies and caddis flies from Europe (250664, exchange).
Kornicker, Dr. Louis S. (See Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas)
Kosztarab, Dr. Michael, Blacksburg, Va.: 6 scale insects from Ohio and Indiana (253497).
Kotler, Joseph Mark (See North Shore Coin Club of Illinois)
Koyama, Dr. Tetsuo, Hongo, Tokyo, Japan: 20 phanerogams and 3 grasses from Japan (241474).
Kramer, Wilhelm, Friedrich-Ebertstrasse, West Germany: Commemorative cover (252037); (through Frank A. Taylor) post card bearing a special eancellation observing President Kennedy’s visit to Germany, June 23, 1963 (249572).
Krandall, Sidney Dressing Tool Co.)
Krauss, Dr. N. L. H., Honolulu, Hawaii: 579 miscellaneous insects and other arthropods from North America,
744-993 64—_12,
(See Abrasive
(248924, 248927, 249982, 253498).
Kriger, S., Washington, D.C.: Ceremonial bone apron from Tibet and a Koran holder from India (248527, exchange).
Krogstad, Dr. Blanchard O., Chapingo, Mexico: 20 tiger beetles from Mexico (252785).
Krombein, Dr. Karl V., Washington, D.C.: 486 bees and wasps from North America (251608).
Krotki, Carl, New York, N.Y.: Grossularite from Quebec, Canada (252268).
Kithn, Dr. Robert, Hannover, Germany: Koenenite with sylvite from Bergmannssegen, Germany (250406).
Kulkarni, Dr. C. V., Bombay, India: (Through Dr. Ernest A. Lachner) 6 fishes from Bombay (251888).
Kullerud, Dr. G. (See Hak, Dr. Jaroslav)
Kummel, Dr. Bernhard, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through Dr. H. L. Yochelson) 10 bellerophon gastropods from the Triassic of Salt Range, West Pakistan (248918).
Kuntz, Comdr. Robert E. fense, U.S. Department of)
Kuroko, Dr. H., Fukuoka, Japan: Moth from Asia (249071, exchange) ; 102 moths from Japan (251460).
Kutkuhn, Dr. Joseph (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Kyoto, University of, Kyoto, Japan: (Through Dr. M. Tagawa) 960 ferns from Japan and the Ryukyu Islands (251449, exchange).
Laborel, Dr. Jacques (See Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle)
Lachner, Dr. Ernest A. (See Kulkarni, Dr. C. V.)
Ladd, Dr. Harry S. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Laffoon, Dr. Jean L., Ames, Iowa: 8 scarab beetles from Iowa (251615).
Lakela, Dr. Olga, Tampa, Fla.: 29 phanerogams from Florida (249219, 249979).
Lalemand, J., Brussels, Belgium: 12 uncirculated coins of Belgium and Luxembourg (250075).
(See De

<<<Page: 181>>>

Laliberte, Dr. Firmin, Quebec, Can-
ada: 5 beetles from North America (250228).
Lamarsh, Dr. John R. (See New York University )
Lamb, Dr. I. Mackenzie (See Harvard University )
Lambrecht, Dr. E. D. (deceased) : (Through Mrs. Paul C. Reid) light bulb (253285).
Lancaster, L. J. Fund, Frances Lea)
Lane, Eldred L. (See Fersolin Corp.)
Lane, Dr. John (deceased) : (Through Dr. Oswaldo P. Forattini) 82 flies (250419, exchange).
Lange, Dr. W. Harry, Davis, Calif.: 8 aphids from California (253504).
Langer, Dr. W. (See Evyan Perfumes, Inc.)
Langley, Harry P., Washington, D.C.: 32 agate specimens from Yemen (249645).
Langridge, H. P., Lantana, Fla.: Bird skin (249053).
Lanzen, Edward M., Minneapolis, Minn.: (Through Dr. Doris M. Cochran) 2 telescoping fishing poles from Japan (249635).
Larrimore, Mr. and Mrs. F. C., Baltimore, Md.: Cabochon of chiastolite in matrix from Lancaster, Mass. (251817).
Larsen, Mrs. Ellouise Baker, Lima, Ohio: 868 pieces of Staffordshire china (171126).
Larson, Mrs. Helen R., Bethesda, Md.: Eskimo woman’s costume from Greenland (249366).
Larson, Omer R., Minneapolis, Minn. : 4 snails from Minnesota (248960).
Larus & Brother Co., Inc., Richmond, Va.: (Through N. W. Gregory) replica of tobacco hogshead (249254).
Lassiter, Mrs. Dillard B., Washington, D.C.: 2 bronze commemorative medals (248068).
Lau, Dr. Alfred B. (See Mexican Indian Training Center, Inc.; and Salud, Gilberto)
Laughlin, Kendall, Phanerogam (248664).
Lavi, Dr. Y. (See Israel, Government of)
(See Chamberlain
Chicago, MIIl.:
Lawless, Dr. Kenneth R. (See Virginia, University of)
Lawrence, Donald A. (See Southern Illinois University)
Lazarian, Edward, Cochituate, Mass. : Wax impression of Colonial Postmaster’s seal (253878).
Leapley, William (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Leatherman, Mrs. Sylvia B., South Bl Monte, Calif.: Fern (251956).
Leaveil, Lutie C., Bala-Cynwyd, Pa.: Carte-de-visite photograph of Abraham Lineoln (251477).
Lee, David J., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia: 8 biting midges, paratypes, from Australia (250589).
Lee, Sung Yun (See Korea, Government of)
Lee, Dr. Yong No (See Tokyo, University of)
Lee C. Moore Corp., Tulsa, Okla.: (Through J. R. Woolslayer) 3 scale models of drilling rigs (253630).
Leech, Dr. Hugh B. (See California Academy of Sciences)
Leech, Robin (See Alberta, University of)
Leer, Mrs. Sophia E., Washington, D.C.: 5 U.S. Army documents that belonged to donor’s father, Blacksmith Wilhelm Achterkirch (252389).
Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa.: (Through Dr. Sidney 8S. Herman) 22 polychaete larvae from Chesapeake Bay, polychaete tubes and 17 copepods from Bermuda (252226, 253134).
Lehman, Dr. H. E. (See North Carolina, University of)
Lehmann, Richard W., and Lewis, D. Eric, Keesler AFB, Miss.: (Through William L. Witt) 60 ecrayfishes from Mississippi (253196).
Leigh, Egbert G., Jr., Washington, D.C.: 6 marine mollusks from the Red Sea (250528).
Lellinger, David, Washington, D.C.: 40 ferns from Oklahoma collected by donor (249975).
Lemaire, Robert J., Grand Island, Nebr.: 29 phanerogams, 7 grasses, and a fern from Kansas, Louisiana and Nebraska (249969).

<<<Page: 182>>>

Le Menager, H. V., Washington, D.C.: Jacquard coverlet sample, 1853 (249565).
Leonard, Mrs. F. Morton, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Coverlet and 2 quilts (250982).
Leonard, G. S. (See Cameron Iron Works, Inc.)
Leonardi, M., Trona, Calif.: Northupite from California (253745, exchange).
Levin, Dr. H. L., St. Louis, Mo.: Trilobite from Kimmswick limestone near St. Louis (251765).
Levorson, Calvin O., Riceville, Iowa: 300 fossils from the Devonian of Rockford, Iowa (248614).
Levy, Alex A. (See Goldblatt Tool Co.)
Lewis, Dr. Alan G. shire, University of)
Lewis, Mrs. Bertha M., Newark, N.J.: Engraving of President Lincoln and his family, 1866 (252183).
Lewis, D. Eric (See Lehmann, Richard W.)
Lewis, Mrs. Frank A., Hempstead, N.Y.: Opal cabochon from Mexico and rhodonite from New Jersey (250396).
Lewis, Dr. John B. (See McGill University )
Leyden, T. T., Fresno, Calif.: 2 beeswax phonograph cylinders which record speeches by William Jennings Bryan (249785).
Libby, Mrs. Paul, Alexandria, Va.: Lace-trimmed and embroidered cap (252614).
Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.: 18 political campaign posters, 1900 (251192); (through L. Quincy Mumford) 6,613 pieces of obsolete currency (248278) ; 3,495 U.S. and foreign philatelic covers and postal stationery (248949, 249654, 252880); (through Jennings Wood) 2 portrait plaques of Harriet Beecher Stowe and Walt Whitman, by Sidney Morse (242293-3). Stamp Club: (Through George D. Havas) 2,849 miscellaneous used foreign postage stamps (252181, 252491).
(See New Hamp-
Licharev, Prof. Boris, Leningrad, U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson) 11 gastropods and 2 brachiopods from the Permian of the U.S.S.R. (248816, exchange).
Lieber, Dr. Werner, Heidelberg, Germany: 8 minerals from Germany (251487, exchange) ; 7 minerals and a publication, Die Phosphat-Paragenese in Hagendorfer Pegmatit, by H. Strunz (258732).
Limbaugh, Dr. Conrad (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography )
Lincoln, Mrs. Evelyn N., Washington, D.C.: Bound copy of President John F. Kennedy’s Inaugural Address (252798).
LincoiIn University, Jefferson City, Mo.: (Through Dr. Edward Ferguson, Jr.) 3 slides of ostracods, holotype and paratypes (248634).
Lindberg, David, Concord, Calif.: 4 fresh-water and land snails from California (248148).
Lindley, K. C. sion Co.)
Lindquist, H. L., New York, N.Y.: 2,041 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign first-day and souvenir covers (252029).
Lindsey, Dr. C. C. (See British Columbia, University of)
Lindsey, John. (See Frank Paxton Lumber Co.)
Link, Edwin A., Binghamton, N.Y.: 2 glass bottles, ca. 1650-1700, and an iron breechblock, ca. 1692, recovered from the sea at Port Royal, Jamaica (250068) ; 3 green-glass fragments and brass spike from Caesarea, and bundle of cemented spoons from EH] Matancero (252371).
Lipps, Prof. Lewis College)
Litton Industries, Inc., Beverly Hills, Calif.: (Through Austin Cooley) photograph transmission equipment manufactured by Dr. Arthur Korn, ca. 1937 (252176).
Livingstone, Dr. D. A. University )
Lloyd, Mrs. Charles, Sandwich, Mass. : 4 sheets of decorative transfer prints (250978).
(See Wood Conver-
(See Shorter
(See Duke

<<<Page: 183>>>

Loesch, Dr. Harold (See National Fisheries Institute of Ecuador)
Loftin, Horace (See Florida State University)
Lofton, Charles (See District of Columbia Public Schools)
Logan Museum of Anthropology, Beloit, Wis. : 96 ethnological items from Java and Bali (253494, exchange).
Lohmire, Stella, Barnsville, Ohio: Hair wreath (251548).
Lollis, Edward W., II, Kigali, Rwanda, Africa: 7 minerals from Africa (252816).
Long Beach State College, Long
Beach, Calif.: (Through Dr. Donald J. Reish) 2,216 polychaete worms from the Bering Sea (249107); 347 marine invertebrates from Eniwetok Atoll (250206).
Longwood Gardens, Kennett Square, Pa.: 11 phanerogams and 11 ferns (252829).
Loomis, H. F., Miami, Fla.: 148 millipedes from Central America and 10 types (250790, 251234, 253921).
Loria, Dr. Ing. Mario (See Associazione Elettrotecnica ed Hlettronica Italiana )
Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif.: (Through Roy Snelling) 50 ants from California (250605).
Los Angeles State and County Arboretum, Arcadia, Calif.: 25 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 3 ferns (248836).
Louise Home, Washington, D.C.: (Through Mrs. Mary B. Cox) silk quilt, 1883 (251664).
Louisiana, State of: Forest Insect Laboratory: (Through Dr. John GC. Moser) 3 beetles from North America (253916).
Louisiana, University of Southwestern, Lafayette, La.: 19 phanerogams and 62 grasses from Canada and Louisiana (248203).
Louisiana State University, New Orleans and Baton Rouge, La.: 29 phanerogams and 8 grasses from British Honduras (250728); (through F. D. Barlow) 54 grasses from Mexico (252617) ; (through Dr. Walter J. Harman) 15
polychaete and 5 oligochaete worms (250210, 250683).
Louisville, University of, Louisville, Ky.: (Through Rudolph Prins) 7 crayfishes (248895).
Loveridge, Dr. Arthur, St. Helena Island, South Atlantic: 8 marine mollusks, lacewing, and silverfish from St. Helena Island (249078, 251591).
Lovi, Arthur, Pensacola, Fla.: 13 stamps issued by Tonga, commemorating the first gold coinage of Polynesia, 1962 (251472).
Lowery, Dr. B. B., Sydney, Australia: Approximately 500 ants (250606).
Loyola University, New Orleans, La., and Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.: (Through John P. Donaldson) Collins helium cryostat (252803).
Lucas, Mrs. Stephen B., Rockford, Ill. : 13-star U.S. National flag (246661).
Ludington, M. H., Silver Spring, Md.: 5 postage stamps and 15 forgeries of postage stamps of British possessions in North America (249082).
Lunz, Dr. G. Robert (See Bears Bluff Laboratories)
Lutz, Dr. Bertha, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 41 frogs belonging to 12 species from Brazil (253457, exchange).
Lyko Mineral & Gem, Inc., Hl Paso, Tex.: 3 wernerites and a zircon from Oaxaca, Mexico (249448); (through William J. Lyons) sklodowskite from Chihuahua, Mexico (252480) ; (through Jack R. Young) 10 minerals from Mexico (252271, 253750) ; wulfenite from Los Lamentos, Chihuahua, Mexico (253763, exchange).
Lyman, Frank, Dozier, Ala.: 12 land and fresh-water snails from Alabama and Hong Kong (250327).
Lynch, Dr. James E., Seattle, Wash. : 4 fishes from California (250220).
Lyon, Prof. R. J., Los Angeles, Calif. : 24 gall wasps from California (249072).
Lyons, William J. (See Lyko Mineral & Gem, Inc.)
M. S. Hancock, Inc., Casco, Maine: (Through Kenneth M. Hancock) 1 each of pine and hemlock boards (252872).
Maa, Dr. Tsing C. (See Bishop Museum, Bernice P.)

<<<Page: 184>>>

Maass, Dr. W. S. G. Government of)
Mack, Mrs. C. Floyd, Sr., San Antonio, Tex.: U.S. Navy uniform (253614).
MacKeever, Frank C., New York, N.Y.: 22 grasses from Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket (253803).
Mackerras, Dr. I. M., Canberra, Australia: 25 flies (251607).
Mackintosh, Dr. N. A. Britain, Government of)
MacLeod, Ellis G., Cambridge, Mass. : 69 lacewings and caddis flies from North America (249069).
Macomber, Alvin Z. (See Tariff Commission, U.S.)
MacVeagh, Mrs. Katharine, Santa Barbara, Calif.: 2 pieces of jewelry (251809).
MacVean, Mrs. D. A. J. B.)
Magner, Daniel F., Washington, D.C.: 12 items of contemporary clothing from India and Iran (249214).
Maiden, R. G., Saltville, Va.: Human skull without lower jaw (221893).
Maine, State of: Forest Service: (Through Dr. A. E. Brower) 4,296 caddis flies from Maine (251242).
Major, Prof. John K. (See Western Reserve University)
Makino Herbarium, Tokyo, Japan: 16 phanerogams and 2 ferns from Japan (242289, exchange).
Malaya, Federation of: Forest Research Institute: 289 phanerogams from Malaya (249533, 252335, exchanges). National Museum: (Through Haji A. Mubin Sheppard) 9 items of clothing for a puppeteer and theatre lamp and stand from Kelantan, Malaya (249559).
Malaya, University of, Singapore, Malaya: (Through Dr. D. S. Johnson) 7 horseshoe crabs (248033).
Maldonado-Capriles, Dr. J., Mayaguez, Puerto Rico: 2,491 miscellaneous insects from Nepal and Pakistan (252383) ; assassin bug from tropical America (253495).
Manca, Albino, New York, N.Y.: East coast memorial medal in bronze, 1963 (252084).
(See Canada,
(See Great
(See Webster,
Mangan, James Thomas, Oak Lawn, Ill.: 9 gold “celeston” pieces and a silver “joule” (251149).
Mangor, Elovius (See Norway, Govvernment of)
‘Manning, Dr. Raymond B. ami, University of)
Manson, D. C. M., Levin, New Zealand: 26 weevils from New Zealand (244032, exchange).
Manton, Dr. S. M., London, England: 5 centipedes from Tasmania (252782).
Manville, Dr. R. H. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Margolis, Dr Leo (See Canada, Govyernment of)
Marine Laboratory, Aberdeen, Scotland: (Through Dr. Z. Kabata) 5 copepods (250205).
Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis.: Distinctive insigne of donor’s Army Reserve Officers Training Corps (254054).
Marsh, Dr. Frank L., Berrien Springs, Mich.: 2 parasitic flies from Illinois (252878).
Marshall, Byron C., Hot Springs National Park, Ark.: 19 isopods, 14 fishes, 3 fish flies, 108 amphipods, 22 caddis flies and lacewings, and a lubber grasshopper, mostly from Arkansas (247710, 248234, 249622, 249747, 249749, 252234, 252858).
Marshall, Mrs. George Catlett, Southern Pines, N.C.: Collection of Gen. George Catlett Marshall’s Army uniforms (252848).
Marshall, Prof. H. P. Polytechnic Institute)
Marshall, Mrs. John Cameron, Washington, D.C.: 8 pieces of 20th-century women’s apparel (249151).
Marshall University, Huntington, W. Va.: (Through Prof. James P. Gillespie) fern from West Virginia (251722).
Marston, Norman, Manhattan, Kans.: 2 bee flies from Colorado (251608).
Martin, Mrs. Wade, Woodstock, Vt.: 5-dollar note issued by the Continental Congress, Feb. 17, 1776 (249085).
(See Mi-
(See Virginia

<<<Page: 185>>>

Martin L. Ehrmann Co., Beverly Hills, Calif.: 100 minerals and gems from worldwide localities (246090, 249989, exchanges); golden-green beryl from Brazil, 1,363 carats (251617, exchange).
Martinez, Prof. Maximino (See Universidad Nacional Auténoma de México)
Martinez-Hidalgo, Capitan de Corbeta Jose M. (See El Museo Maritimo)
Maryland, University of, Baltimore, Md.: School of Medicine: (Through Dr. Robert Traub) 260 mammals and 12 birds from West Pakistan and 2 fishes from Mexico ( 251940, 254030).
Masek, Roland C., and Compton, James, Sykesville, Md.: 3 _ bottles (251848).
Mason, Dr. Herbert L. (See California, University of)
Mason, Dr. John F., New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr. A. R. Palmer) trilobite (250968).
Mason, Kenneth R. (See Tariff Commission, U.S.)
Mason, Mrs. Martha Johnson, Somers Point, N.J.: 4 silver and bronze prize medals (252065).
Mason, Thomas H., Sussex, England: Denier struck in the name of Bohemund III, Principality of Antioch, 1140-1201 (2538773).
Masonic and Eastern Star Home of the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C.: (Through George F. Worth) piece of silk printed with Thomas Jefferson’s address, Mar. 4, 1801, and newspaper ‘containing his second inaugural address, Mar. 12, 1805 (253827).
Massachusetts, University of, Amherst, Mass.: (Through Hugh Montgomery) 8 books formerly in the Benjamin B. Comegys’ library (241214).
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through Prof. John A. Tucker) 142 specimens of electrical apparatus (244197); (through Dr. J. R. Zacharias) atomic clock (254080).
Masse, Chester, Middleton, Mass.: Political-campaign glass (248948).
Massey, Prof. A. B. (See Virginia Polytechnic Institute)
Matejka, James J., Jr., M.D., Chicago, Tll.;: Used airmail stamp of France and 3 used and unused airmail stamps of Syria (252031).
Mather, Bryant, Jackson, Miss.: 116 caddis flies and lacewings from Mississippi (249617, 251244).
Mathias, Hon. Charles McC., Jr. (See Frederick County Civil War Centennial Association)
Mathieu, Jean M., Urbana, IIL: Scarab beetle from Mexico (253914).
Matthews, Benjamin A., New York, N.Y.: U.S. paid reply postal card issued in 1892 (250079).
Matthews, Dr. Erie G., Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico: 418 scarab beetles from Florida and India, and 3 from Puerto Rico (252881, 252382).
Matthews, Mary P., Washington, D.C.: 7 pamphlets and programs relating to American politics and social reform (248734).
Maxfield, Bruce (See Carl Zeiss, Inc.)
Max-Planck Institut fiir Chemte, Mainz, Germany: (Through Dr. H. Wiinke) Beddgelert, Wales, England, meteorite, 10.5 grams (252166, exchange).
Maxson, Dr. Asa C., Longmont, Colo. : 300 aphids and 20 hymenoptera parasites from the U.S. (249251).
May, Mrs. Herbert A., Washington, D.C.: Cape made from breast of swan and 10 fur pieces (248125, 253124).
May, Maj. Marjorie D., Arlington,
Va.: Uniform of the Army Nurse Corps
(252887).
Mayer, Curtis (See Continental Productions Ltd.)
Mayfield, C. Virginia and Dorothy T., Washington, D.C. : 20 pieces of flatware, 1 lot of towels, flatiron, 2 albums, shawl, and glue pot (250078, 2518438).
Mayfield, Dorothy T. (See Mayfield, ©. Virginia).
Mayo, Mrs. Edith P., Washington, D.C.: Lapel button, handbill, and mimeographed circular relating to the Student Filibuster for Civil Rights, 1964 (2538825).

<<<Page: 186>>>

Maytag, Robert E. Estate of: (Through Francis C. Miller) Oldsmobile, 1918 (241988, bequest).
McBride, Robert, Bethesda, Md.: 6 garnets with thin section from Madison Co., Mont. (252279).
McCabe, Charles (See New York Daily Mirror).
McCain, John C. (See Virginia Institute of Marine Science).
McCall, Francis J. (deceased) : Papyrus fragment with hieratic characters, ca. 7th century B.C. (249398) ; 30 U.S. first-day covers, 11 foreign eovers, and 35 first-day ceremony and philatelic event programs (2538865).
McCarthy, Mrs. Hileen (See Smithsonian Institution).
McCauley, Prof. James E., Corvallis, Oreg.: 5 parasitic helminth worms, holotype and paratypes, from Newport, Oreg. (251524).
McCauley, Robert H., Hagerstown, Md.: 26 pitchers and 4 bowls, all transfer-decorated Liverpool earthenware (248881) ; 35 items of Liverpool pottery (252565).
McCloskey, Lawrence R. (See Duke University).
McCoid, Mr. and Mrs. W. J., Shelton, Wash. : Food chopper (251042).
McCombs, Mrs. Tempie, Surfside Beach, 8.C.: Part of the symphysis of lower jaw of a crocodilian from the Cretaceous of South Carolina (248074).
McConihay, John J. and Lucille, South Charleston, W. Va.: Mining scrip issued by Dell Coal Co. (251183).
McConihay, Lucille (See McConihay, John J.).
McConnaughey, Dr. Bayard H. (See Oregon, University of).
McCoy, Earl W., Silver Spring, Md.: 2 mid-19th-century felloe saws (252799).
McDaniel, Sidney, State College, Miss.: 88 lichens from Arkansas and Mississippi (248181).
McDonald, Ian C., Dallas, Tex.: 45 wasps and bees from North America (252577).
McFarland, Dr. Frank T., Berea, Ky.: Phanerogam (249835).
McFarland, Noel, Valyermo, Calif.: 18 miscellaneous moth larvae and pupae from North America (251221).
McGill University, Montreal, Canada: (Through R. J. A. Goodland) 1,380 phanerogams, 388 grasses, 46 ferns, and 3 eryptogams from British Guiana collected by R. J. A. Goodland (252340). Bellairs Research Institute: (Through Dr. John B. Lewis) 4 shrimps, 6 crabs, a hermit crab, and 1 lot of plankton samples (238527, 251820); (through Dorothy Pocock) 15 shrimps (238514).
McGugan, Prof. A., Calgary, Alberta, Canada: 21 Mississippian brachiopods from Flathead Pass, Alberta, Canada (250408).
McGuinness, Al, Eugene, Oreg.: 14 minerals from Idaho and Oregon (249644, 252231, exchanges).
McHenry, G. Ruth, Savannah, Ga.: 2 pairs of forceps and a rectal speculum (251003).
McKaig, W. Wallace, Cumberland, Md.: Letter signed by Washington Irving, 1852, and 3 bills, 2 with signature of George Washington, 1786-87 (247092).
McKay, D. R. (See International Business Machines Corp.)
McKay, Mrs. Robert, Monticello, Fla. : Dress worn by donor’s mother in 1913 (251816).
McKean, Herbert B. Forests, Inc.)
McKee, H. S. ernment of)
McKenzie, Dr. K. G. sota, University of)
McKinney, J. V. C., Rockfall, Conn.: Box vise (248950).
McLean, James D., Alexandria, Va.: 32 Foraminifera from the lower Tertiary of the Gulf Coast (251100).
McMacken, Elbert H., Ramona, Calif.: 3 hambergite specimens from San Diego Co., Calif. (252273).
McMichael, Dr. Donald F. (See Australia, Government of)
McPherson, Archie, Sewickley, Pa.: Oil lamp (253945).
McRae, John T. Edith)
(See Potlatch (See Australia, Gov-
(See Minne-
(See Goldsmith,

<<<Page: 187>>>

McVaugh, Dr. Rogers (See Michigan, University of)
Meachum, Roy (See Columbia Broadcasting System and WTOP-Radio)
Mead, Frank W. (See Florida, State of)
Mead, Dr. Giles W. University )
Medway, Lord, Kuala Lampur, Malaya: Shrew, paratype of a new subspecies, from Sarawak (249640).
Meehan, Ruth L., Washington, D.C.: Woman’s comb, late 19th century (2493388).
Meem, Mrs. Harry G., and Rogers, Mrs. Ann Carroll Meem, Washington, D.C.: 91 examples of 19thand 20thcentury textiles, clothing, and accessories (250072).
’ Mehring, Dr. Arnon L., Adelphi, Md.:
Approximately 23,917 mollusks and 6 lots of brachiopods, from the Cenozoic of Florida to Maryland (251680).
Mehta, Dhirubhai, Bombay, India: 8 mint stamps and 7 first-day covers of India (2538857).
Meigs, Mr. and Mrs. Fielding Pope, Jr.. Rosemont, Pa.: 223 family heirlooms and memorabilia (248268).
Mekkelsen, Martin (See Waltham, City of)
Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through Frederick R. Park) slice of Vera meteorite from Sante Fe province, Argentina (251451).
Melville, M. L. (See National Cash Register Co.)
Mencken, August, Baltimore, Md.: 7 toy steam engines and motors (220719).
Menendez, Raoul J. (See Carl Zeiss,
(See Harvard
Inc.) Mentch, Glenn W. (See Eastman Kodak Co.)
Merrill, Dr. Arthur S., Woods Hole, Mass.: 81 fossils from the Recent off South Carolina (251454).
Merrill, Ralph, Berkeley, Calif.: 2 epistilbite crystals from Connecticut (252286).
Merz, Joy, address unknown: Tetrahedrite on pyrite from Quiruvilca, Peru (253751).
Meshorer, Jaakov, Jerusalem, Israel : 5 ancient bronze coins from Caesarea, bronze coin from Gadara, and an Arab coin weight (251173).
Meves, Mrs. Clara E., Washington, D.C.: Lamp (253636).
Mexican Indian Training Center, Inc., Corboda, Veracruz, Mexico: (Through Dr. Alfred B. Lau) 1,318 miscellaneous insects from Mexico (251456).
Meyer, Edwin H., Scottsdale, Ariz. : 9 trial run Ohio State sales-tax stamps (245507).
Meyer, Dr. Fred G. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
Meyers, Bernard F., Washington, D.C.: U.S. Army uniform and accessories (249544).
Miami, University of, Miami, Fla.: Institute of Marine Science: (Through Dr. Frederick M. Bayer) 25 copepods, marine mollusk, holotype, from off southeastern Florida, and 14 shrimps from Panama (251070, 252900, 254050) ; (through Dr. Raymond B. Manning) 578 crabs (247230) ; 5 stomatopods from Tahiti (247272) ; (through Dr. Harding B. Owre) 8 chaetognaths, holotype and 7 paratypes (249341) ; (through Lowell Thomas) 373 miscellaneous marine animals from Chile and echinoderms from New Zealand, also 275 mollusks and 8 fishes (251835).
Miami University, Oxford, Ohio: (Through Fred R. Rickson) 6 microscope slides of woods (249040, exchange).
Michener, Dr. C. D. University of)
Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 542 grasses from Mexico (247269) ; 760 grasses from Assam (2538069, exchange); (through J. B. Bureh) 11 mollusks from Eniwetok Atoll, Marshall Islands, Liberia, and Monrovia (253270, exchange) ; (through Dr. Claude W. Hibbard) 1,278 branchiopods from Kansas (250635); (through Dr. Rogers MeVaugh) 2,629 wood specimens from worldwide localities (239710, exchange); (through Dr. William R. Murchie) 210 slides of oligochaete worms, types (240807); (through Dr.
(See Kansas,

<<<Page: 188>>>

W. J. Nungester) miscellaneous collection of laboratory apparatus (253100) ; (through Dr. Warren H. Wagner, Jr.) 8 phanerogams and 283 ferns (250780, exchange).
Michigan State University, East Lansing, Mich.: 24 lichens from South Dakota (250484) ; 141 lichens from Long Island (249974, exchange); (through Dr. John H. Beaman) 12 mosses from Guatemala and Mexico (253227); (through Dr. Roland L. Fischer) 244 eaddis flies from the U.S. (250354, 252376) ; (through Dr. Henry Imshaug) 407 lichens collected by Dr. Imshaug (217877, 225572, 228906, 283400) ; (through Dr. Irving Knobloch) 5 ferns from Panama and 8 ecryptogams from Mexico (250348, 250488).
Mickelson, Sidney (See Mickelson’s Picture & Framing Gallery)
Mickelson’s Picture & Framing Gallery, Washington, D.C.: (Through Sidney Mickelson) wood engraving, St. Nicholas Church, Newcastle Upon Tyne, 1799, by Charlton Nesbit, after Robert Johnson (253627).
Miehalski, Mrs. Stanley, Jacksonville, Fla.: Cultivated fern (250153).
Mikkelsen, Aage Andreas, Lindenhurst, N.Y.: Daguerre Studio advertisement, 1858, “Blitz” box camera, and guillotine shutter (250979).
Mikoda, Philip (See Ansco, General Aniline & Film Corp.)
Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Bethesda, Md.: 10 political campaign items, sales catalog of “Boston Store, the Home of True Heonomy,” Chicago, Ill., combination tin cookie cutter and vegetable grater, and beaded bag for pocket watch (250242).
Milici, Dr. Robert C. see, State of)
Miller, C. D. F. ernment of)
Miller, Cole, Charlotte, N.C.: Rhodoehrosite from Argentina (253074).
Miller, Francis C. (See Maytag, Robert E., Estate of)
Miller, Dr. George C. U.S. Department of the)
(See Tennes-
(See Canada, Goy-
(See Interior,
a Miller, Harry C. (See Sargent and Greenleaf, Inc.)
Miller, T. H. (See Dunn, D. L.)
Milliron, Dr. H. E. (See Canada, Government of)
Mills, Eric L. (See Yale University)
Milne, George M., Point Pleasant, N.J.: (Through Charles H. Wuerz, Jr.) 4 unused postage stamps of Thailand (250077).
Milner, Mrs. R. T., Chevy Chase, Md.: Miscellaneous material concerning the Federal Government and State poll tax (249854).
Mineralogisk-Geologisk Museum, Oslo, Norway: (Through Dr. Henrich Neumann) hambergite, type, from southern Norway (251691, exchange).
Ministére des Affaires Economiques, Ruhengeri, République Rwandaise: (Through Dr. A. Bertossa) pyrochlore and lueshite from the Congo (251693, exchange).
Ministério da Agricultura, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Servico Fflorestal: (Through Dr. Armando de Mattos Filho) 345 wood specimens from Brazil (251274, exchange).
Ministerio de Agricultura, Lima, Peru: (Through Norma Chirichigno F.) 129 fishes from Peru (253128).
Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria, Caracas, Venezuela: Instituto Botdnico: 1,001 phanerogams and a fern from Venezuela (248130, 244851, 245504, 246742, 248429, 248914, 250330, 2503382, 250337, 250750, 252662) ; 324 phanerogams and a grass from Venezuela (248665, 250339, 253365, exchanges) ; (through Dr. Getulio Agostini) 17 phanerogams and 8 ferns from Venezuela (250879) ; (through Dr. Leandro Aristeguieta) phanerogam (250112) ; (through Dr. Julian A. Steyermark)
23 phanerogams from Venezuela (249480, 252908). Minnesota, University of, Minne-
apolis, Minn.: (Through Dr. K. G. McKenzie) 15 slides of ostracods from Lower California (251281).
Minow, Mrs. Newton (See Baskin, Salem N.)

<<<Page: 189>>>

Mississippi, University of, State College, Miss.: (Through Dr. R. E. Hutchins) 16 ants from Mississippi (248925).
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Mo.: 29 phanerogams from Peru (236405, 252468) : 4 grasses from Panama collected by Dr. John D. Dwyer (248826) ; 7 phanerogams from Hcuador (249536); 166 phanerogams and 11 grasses from Panama, 301 phanerogams from Mexico (249540, 249978, 258814, exchanges).
Missouri Numismatic Society, St. Louis, Mo.: (Through Mrs. Bernice Stevenson) silver memento issued in commemoration of donor’s 25th anniversary (253352).
Missouri School of Mines and Meitallurgy, Rolla, Mo.: (Through Col. Glenn R. Taylor) distinctive insigne of the ROTC Unit at the Missouri School of Mines and Metallurgy (251466).
Mitchell, A Steuart (See AllenMitchell and Co.)
Mitchell, Daniel, Plattsburg, N.Y.: Benjamin Rush medal struck at Philadelphia, 1808 (251148).
Mitchell, Mrs. Emma Bushong (deeeased): (Through Mrs. Kleon D. Fokides and Mrs. Gervais T. Moss) 19th-century coverlet (249079).
Mitchell, Dr. Richard S. (See Virginia, University of)
Mitchell, Dr. T. B., Raleigh, N.C.: 46 bees, mostly paratypes, from North America (250677, exchange).
Mitchell, William W. (See Alaska Agricultural Experiment Station)
Mitsui, Baron Takaharu, Tokyo, Japan: Letter-carrying box, 8 Japanese letters, and 276 artists’ drawings (250712).
Mizelle, Dr. John D., Sacramento, Calif.: Parasitic helminth worm, type (248566) ; 6 trematode worms, holotypes, from California (248956).
Mobile River Saw Mill Co., Mount Vernon, Ala.: (Through Claude M. Sears) 4 magnolia boards (250515).
Mohn, Prof. Paul E. (See New York, State University of)
Molaison, Mr. and Mrs. J., New Orleans, La.: Late 19th-century fluting iron and its original container (249080).
Moller, George L., Hoboken, N.J.: Hodgkins silver medal awarded in 1895 (250796).
Monaco, Government of: (Through H. Chiavassa) 76 mint stamps of Monaco (253854).
Monnig, Oscar E., Fort Worth, Tex.: Comanche No. 1 meteorite, 550 grams (251752, exchange). ae
Montana State College, Bozem “1, Mont.: (Through Dr. C. J. D. Brown) 8 agruloids (247711).
Montevideo, University of, Montevideo, Uruguay: (Through Dr. Raul Vaz-Ferreira) 11 fishes from Uruguay (250033, exchange).
Montgomery, Hugh setts, University of)
Montgomery, Phil (See Halliburton Co.)
Montreal, University of, Montreal, Quebee, Canada: Marie-Victorin Herbarium: 239 phanerogams, 11 grasses, and 10 ferns from Newfoundland (248658, exchange).
Moody, Dr. W. E. tute of Technology)
Mooney, Arthur J., Sayville, N.Y.: 3cent note issued in 1862 by Farmers’ Bank (251875).
Moore, Mr. and Mrs. Reuel S., Washington, D.C.: Jacquard woven ribbon and sewing case (250640).
Moore, Dr. Thomas E., Ann Arbor, Mich.: 12 cicadas from the U.S. (249625).
Morales, Dr. Pedro Roa (See Instituto Oceanografico)
Morales V, Teodoro, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic: 278 insects from the Dominican Republic (253607).
Mordukhai-Boltovskoi, Dr. (See Institute of the Biology of Inland Waters)
Moreland, Grover, Alexandria, Va.: Agate from Brazil (252819).
Morris, Elkan J., Fairbanks, Alaska: Snake from Mexico collected by donor (245058) ; collection of reptiles and amphibians and a jar of 29 fishes from
(See Massachu-
(See Georgia Insti

<<<Page: 190>>>

Mexico and Panama collected by donor (248029).
Morris, Mr. and Mrs. Elliston P., Southampton, Pa.: 2 pieces of medical equipment (252497).
Morris, Mrs. George Maurice, Washington, D.C.: Slat-back chair, 18th-century Pennsylvania type, and 4 upholstered mahogany side chairs, ca. 183040 (252322).
Morris, Mrs. Roy Thomas, Washington, D.C.: Apache Indian beaded pouch allegedly from the wife of Geronimo, and a beaded necklace (2527738).
Morrow, J.D. A. (See Joy Manufacturing Co.)
Morton, C. YV., Washington, D.C.: Made for the Smithsonian: 657 photographs of fern types (248659, 251721).
Moscow, University of, Moscow, U.S.S.R.: Botanic Garden: 158 phanerogams, 12 grasses, and 2 ferns from the U.S.S.R. (253820, exchange).
Moser, Dr. John C. (See Louisiana, State of)
Mosle, Alexander G., New York, N.Y.: 122 items of lacquer, ceramics, sculpture, textiles, and other applied arts from Japan, and a ceramic vase from Korea (156760).
Moss, Mrs. Gervais T. Mrs. Hmma Bushong)
Moulton, Dr. James M. land, University of)
Mower, Robert E., Marion, Mass.: Miniature tureen made at Sandwich, Mass., ca. 1830-40 (250967).
Muelle, Dr. Jorge C. (See Museo Nacional de Antropologia y Arqueologia )
Mulholland, Alexander B. C., Ipswich, Mass.: Frame, exterior and interior woodwork of a i17th-century house (252318).
Miiller, Christine, Mélln/Hamburg, Germany: 238 insects from North Germany (251595).
Muller, John D., Jr., Charleston, S.C.: 2 phanerogams from South Carolina (251269).
Miiller, Dr. Klaus J., Berlin-Charlottenburg, Germany : 75 brachiopods from the Devonian of Germany (251452).
(See Mitchell,
(See Queens-
Mullin, Vincent (See Aberdeen Auto Parts)
Multhauf, Dr. Robert P., Washington, D.C.: U.S. airmail crash cover and foreign cover (2538877).
Mumford, L. Quincy (See Library of Congress)
Mumford, Dr. Russell E., Lafayette, Ind.: 748 mammals from Indiana (248604).
Munro, Dr. H. K. Republic of)
Murbarger, Nell, Costa Mesa, Calif.: 14 echinoderms mostly from Mexico (252992).
Murchie, Dr. William R. gan, University of)
Murphy, James C., Rockville, Md.: Stevens .22 caliber rifle (250950).
Murphy, Dr. John N., La Jolla, Calif. : American Civil War Confederate Hall rifle (249944, exchange).
Murray, Mrs. Anne W., Washington, D.C.: 12 U.S. postage stamps and a foreign cover (253879).
Murray, John H., Washington, D.C.: Woman’s black-linen hat, 1959 (249152).
Murthy, L. S. V. (See Conservator of Forests, Office of)
Musée Royal de l’Afrique Centrale, Tervuren, Belgium: (Through Dr. P. Basilewsky) 1380 water beetles from Africa (253178, exchange).
Museo Civico di Storia Naturale “Giacomo Doria,’ Genoa, Italy: (Through Dr. Enrico Tortonese) 2 fish from Sicily and 11 gorgonians (231124, 249309).
Museo Nacional de Antropologia y Arqueologia, Lima, Peru: (Through Dr. Jorge C. Muelle) plaster-of-Paris cast of vault of Peruvian skull showing five healed trephine openings (249218, ex-
(See South Africa,
(See Michi-
change). Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 8 phanerogams from Brazil
(252929) ; (through Dr, Alceu Lemos de Castro) T hippas (280989, exchange).
Museu Paraense “Emilio Goeldi,” Belém, Para, Brazil: 4 phanerogams from Brazil (235507, 249330).

<<<Page: 191>>>

Museu Ricgrandense de Ciéncias Naturais, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil: (Through Dr. Ludwig Buckup) gorgonian (230717).
Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle, Belgrade, Yugoslavia: (Through Dr. Zivomir Vasic) 206-gram mass of the Dimitrovgrad, Yugoslavia, meteorite (252512, exchange).
Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France: 1,148 phanerogams and 3,422 ferns (249220, exchange) ; (through Dr. Jacques Laborel) 3 corals collected by the R/V Calypso (250927).
Muzii, Dr. Erminio O., Bethesda, Md.: 34 polychaete worms from Virginia (252409).
Muzzrole, Richard J., Washington, D.C.: 2 stone dresser’s hammers, 19th eentury (253242). (See also Ohlke, Clarence C.)
Myers, O. K. (See Colgate, Adele 8.)
Mygatt, Peter (See California, University of)
Myrick, Albert C., Pasadena, Md.: Crinoid from the Devonian of Berkeley Springs, W. Va. (249650).
Nafius, V. H. (See Techno Instrument Co.)
Nash, Carolyn R., Washington, D.C.: Pair of blue yarn slippers made by Mrs. William McKinley (251856).
Nasir, Dr. Pir, Cumana, Venezuela: 10 fresh-water snails from Venezuela (251121).
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Washington, D.C.: Motion picture auto camera and aircraft sequence camera (250071); (through Elbert A. King, Jr.) 2 specimens of the Wabar meteorite from Saudi Arabia (254022).
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 44 meteorites, 196 australites, and 12 moldavites (247668); 1,408 grams of moldavites (251796).
National Cash Register Co., Dayton, Ohio: (Through M. L. Melville) Ellis adding machine typewriter (2523808).
National Company, Inc. Malden, Mass.: (Through John F. Conway) atomic clock (254092).
National Fisheries Institute of Ecuador, Guayaquil, Ecuador: (Through Dr. Harold Loesch) sea anemone, 5 polychaete worms, 159 hydroids, 7 hippids, and 13 plankton (248483).
National Museum, Manila, Republic of the Philippines: 607 phanerogams, 103 grasses, 50 ferns, and 12 ecryptogams from the Philippines (251258, 251260, 252834, exchanges).
National Museum of Transport and General Steel Industries, St. Louis, Mo.: St. Louis Car Division: (Through Dr. John P. Roberts) 2 paper wheels, ca. 1880 (254099).
National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C.: 87 australites from Mulka, Western Victoria, Australia (251798).
National Society of the Colonial Dames of America, Washington, D.C.: (Through Emily T. Chase and Mrs. Thomas Covel) gas chandelier (251146).
National Trust for Historic Preservation, Mt. Vernon, Va.: 30 Majolica tiles from Spain, early 19th century (249562).
National Woman’s Party, Washington, D.C.: Campaign objects, clippings, and other material relating to the Women’s Suffrage Movement (252882).
Natural History Museum, San Diego, Calif. : 246 phanerogams, 9 grasses, and a fern from Mexico (252828, exchange) ; (through E. P. Chace) caprellid, shrimp, 4 amphipods, 2 hermit crabs, 20 crabs, and 8 isopods (238518, 237509).
Natusch, Mrs. G. G., Wellington, New Zealand: 10 modern brachiopods from New Zealand (251762).
Neal, Oscar (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Neatby, Dr. K. W. (See Canada, Government of)
Nebraska, State of: Department of Health: (Through Dr. William F. Rapp, Jr.) 4 erayfishes (248083) ; 50 mosquitoes and 15 bryozoans from Nebraska (252578, 252850).
Neill, Wilfred T. (See Florida State Museum )
Neinken, Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer, New York, N.Y.: 5,667 paper currencies,

<<<Page: 192>>>

documents of value, and related material issued in Austria and the AustroHungarian Empire (252075) ; 4,134 for-
eign currencies, documents of value, and related material (252076); 69 album pages illustrating ancient and modern coins (258094).
Nelsen, Dr. Robert J., Rockville, Md.: High speed hydraulie dental handpiece and related material (251002).
Nelson, E. A., Crandon, Wis.: Anthophyllite from Forest Co., Wis. (251542).
Nelson, Robert C., Jr., New York, N.¥.: Chrysoberyl cat’s eye from Ceylon, 171.50 carats (251251, exchange) ; heart-shaped kunzite from Brazil, 880 earats (253007, exchange) ; 2 cut kunzites from Brazil (253525).
Nelson, Mrs. William D., Waynesboro, Pa.: 3 pieces of hair jewelry, 19th century (249337).
Netherlands, Government of the: (Through A. Hoolbaans) 20 mint stamps of The Netherlands (253888).
Neumann, Dr. Henrich (See Miner-
alogisk-Geologisk Museum )
New Crown Station, Fink, Northern Territory, Australia: 7% tektites from Fink (251077).
New England Butt Co., Providence,
R.I.: (Through J. A. Gustafson) 11 early steam engine nameplates (252398).
New Hampshire, University of, Durham, N.H.: (Through Dr. Alan G. Lewis) 109 copepods, including 1 holotype and 6 paratypes (251041).
Newman, Dr. M. T., Portland, Oreg.: 2 human partial bones (249968).
Newman, Dr. Murray A. (See Vancouver Public Aquarium)
Newman, Dr. William A. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
New Mexico Precancel Club, Santa Fe, N. Mex.: (Through C. C. Fisher) 386 U.S. precanceled stamps of New Mexico mounted in an album (253884).
New York, State of: Bxecutive Department: Distinctive insigne of the 69th Infantry, New York State guard (254057).
New York, State University of, Buffalo, N.Y.: (Through Prof. Paul E. Mohn) 10 specimens of electrical apparatus (248795).
New York Botanical Garden, New York, N.Y.: 213 phanerogams (248138, 248141, 250749, 252526) ; 1,650 phanerogams, 10 grasses, and 116 ferns (248654, 253808, exchanges) ; 203 specimens of plants from Mexico (253809, exchange).
New York Daily Mirror, New York, N.Y.: (Through Charles McCabe) Zeiss Icon, Ernemann, plate camera and beltStyle “spy” camera (251655).
New York Daily News, New York, N.Y.: (Through Walter Ranzini) 5 cameras (250517).
New York University, New York, N.Y.: Polar Coffin planimeter and Bushnell-Coffin planimeter (252307) ; (through Dr. John R. Lamarsh) picklebarrel reactor (251515).
New Zealand, Government of: Auckland Institute and Museum: (Through Dr. A. W. B. Powell) 110 marine and land shells, including 2 paratypes, from New Zealand (250525, exchange). Department of Scientific and Industrial Research: (Through H. W. Valentine) 28 chalcid wasps reared from native New Zealand insects (250602). Geological Survey: (Through Ian Keyes) 5 plaster casts of Tertiary corals, types (249827).
Niagara) Mohawk Power Corp., Buffalo, N.Y.: (Through E. B. Strowger) Sailer’s recorder, Lincoln synchroscope, Thomson astatic ammeter, 2 Westinghouse generator nameplates, and a Holzer-Cabot time clock (248256). (See also Westinghouse Electric Corp.)
Nichols, Frank, Tibooburra, N.S.W., Australia: 2 australites from New South Wales (251795).
Nicolson, Dan H., Ithaca, N.Y.: 1,055 phanerogams and 6 ferns (249321).
Nielsen, Dr. Lewis T. (See Utah, University of) Niswanner, Mrs. Addie (See
Kanouse, Hssie) Nixon, Dr. G. E. J. ain, Government of)
(See Great Brit

<<<Page: 193>>>

Nolan, Dr. Thomas B. U.S. Department of the)
Nordberg Manufacturing Co. Milwaukee, Wis.: (Through R. M. Austin) model of Nordberg Radial Diesel/Gas engine, 1950 (253251).
Normac Printing and Envelope Corp., New York, N.Y.: (Through Nathan Gottlieb and Maxwell Schwimer) memorial printing of President Kennedy’s inaugural address (251296).
Norman, C. D. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Normand, M. D. (See Centre Technique Forestier Tropical)
Norsworthy, Juanita (See Valdosta State College)
North, Mrs. Agnes Hope, Sea Cliff, L.I., N.Y.: 48 phanerogams, 5 ferns, and 5 eryptogams from Australia (253223).
North Carolina, State of: Wildlife Resources Commission: (Through Dr. James R. Davis) 14 brackish-water mollusks from North Carolina (239585).
North Carolina, University of, Chapel Hill, N.C. : 325 phanerogams, 46 grasses, and 2 ferns from southern U.S. (249317,
(See Interior,
exchange); (through Dr. H. EH. Lehman) echinoid from Bermuda (247779) ;_ (through Dr. Austin B.
Williams) 7 new species of shrimp, including paratypes, from North Carolina (253163).
North Carolina State Museum, Raleigh, N.C.: (Through Dr. David A. Adams) 38 bird skins from New Caledonia (252863).
North Dakota State University, Fargo, N. Dak.: 83 phanerogams, 4 grasses, and a fern from North Dakota (251716, exchange) ; (through Dr. R. L. Post) 32 thrips from North Dakota (252379, exchange).
Northeastern Lumber Manufacturers Association, Inc., New York, N.Y.: (Through R. HE. Broderick) 4 finished eastern white pine boards and 1 finished eastern hemlock board (2523238).
North Shore Coin Club of Illinois, Glencoe, Ill.: (Through Joseph Mark Kotler) wooden nickel issued by donor commemorating its quinquennial coin show, 1963 (249850).
Norway, Government of: (Through Elovius Mangor) 28 mint stamps and postal cards of Norway (250892).
Nowell, Mrs. Ernest B., College Park, Md.: Child’s dress, silk taffeta ribbon, and 2 collars (250983).
Nungester, Dr. W. J. University of)
Nutter, Maj. Gen. W. H. (See Speer, Mrs. E. M.)
Nutting, Dr. William B., Amherst, Mass.: 9 slides of mites (246427, exchange). ;
Oakley, Dr. Kenneth P. Britain, Government of)
Oatley, T. B., Natal, Republic of South Africa : 3 bird skins (251981, exchange).
Ober, Mr. and Mrs. Woodbury S., Orange, Va.: Raphael P. Thian Confederate currency album (237493).
Oberg, Kalervo, Washington, D.C.: 9 potsherds (249964).
Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio: (Through David L. Anderson) 47 telephone and telegraph items related to Hlisha Gray (253039).
Occidental College, Los Angeles, Calif.: Moore Laboratory of Zoology: (Through Dr. John William Hardy) 2 bird skins (251132, exchange).
(See Michigan,
(See Great
O’Connor, Richard D. (See CurtissWright Corp.) Odessa Meteoritical Society, Inc.,
Odessa, Tex.: (Through Thomas HE. Rodman) 2 specimens of the Odessa, Ector Co., Tex., meteorite (248095, ex-
change).
Oehser, Paul H., Washington, D.C.: First-day cover of the Bahamas (253831).
Ogilby, Remsen B. Josephine Arthur)
Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station, Wooster, Ohio: (Through Dr. James E. Appleby) 16 flies from North America (250586).
Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio: 5 grasses from Ohio (251291) ; (through Dr. M. G. Fontana) model of a Bessemer Converter (253950) ; (through Dr. E. D. Rudolph) 12 lichens from Guatemala (248244); 20 lichens from Antarctica (251265, exchange).
(See Robrer,

<<<Page: 194>>>

Ohlke, Clarence C., Adamstown, Md.: (Through Richard J. Muzzrole) 41 items from the site of Bear Branch School, Frederick Co., Md., 1839-89 (253795).
Old Saratoga Historical Association of Schuylerville, New York, Inc. (See Hughes, Mrs. Henry J.)
Olive, Dr. A. Thomas, Winston-Salem, N.C.: 9 aphids, including 8 holotypes, from North America (251462).
Oliver, W. A., Jr. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Olsen, Dr. Stanley J., Tallahassee, Pla.: Life mask of Audubon by Havell (249805).
Olsson, Axel A. (See Weyrauch, Dr. W.; and Williams, Mr. and Mrs. John B.)
Ontiveros, M., El Paso, Tex.: 3 mineral specimens (253758).
Oregon, University of, Eugene, Oreg.: 230 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and 2 ferns from Mexico, collected by Dr. LeRoy E. Detling (245937) ; (through Dr. Bayard H. McConnaughey) 3 mesozoa, syntypes and paratypes (248617).
Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oreg.: 146 phanerogams, 9 grasses, and 5 ferns (253059, exchange).
Osborne, Dr. F. F., Quebec, Canada: 25 specimens of post-Pleistocene fossils from Quebec Province (249050).
Oscar Heyman & Brothers, Inc., New
York, N.Y.: Topaz from . Brazil (249444). Oshei, Robert C. (See Fibron Prod-ucts, Inc.)
Otago University, Portobello, New Zealand: (Through Dr. HE. J. Batham) 37 barnacles from New Zealand (252910).
Overholser, Dr. Winfred, Washington, D.C.: Peruvian pot of early Lima period (251757).
Owen, Billy C., Charleston, S.C.: 4 marine shells from the Philippines (248420).
Owen, Lt. Col. D. L., Guilford, Surrey, Hngland: British cap device (249858).
Owre, Dr. Harding B. (See Miami, University of)
Oxford University, Oxford, England: (Through A. Roy Perry) 50 bryophytes from Great Britain (251420, exchange).
Ozaki, Dr. H., Tokyo, Japan: Gastropod from the Tertiary of Japan (250235).
Ozan Lumber Co., Prescott, Ark.: (Through J. R. Bemis) 2 pieces of Arkansas soft pine boards (252875).
Pacheco, Prof. Francisco, Chapingo, Mexico: 47 beetles from the Western Hemisphere (251614).
Pacific Biological Station, Nanaimo, B.C., Canada: (Through Cyril Berkeley) 3 polychaete worms, holotype (250216).
Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program (See Smithsonian Institution)
Packard, Mr. and Mrs. Kent, Paoli, Pa.: Portrait of Daniel Webster (249685) ; obverse and reverse impressions of medal commemorating British Naval victory of 1794 (250464).
Pajaud, Dr. Daniel (See Université de Paris)
Pakistan, Government of: Geological Survey: Quetta, Pakistan: (Through Ali N. Fatmi) 4 ammonites from the Upper Cretaceous of Pakistan (250021, exchange).
Palmer, Dr. A. R. (See Mason, Dr. John F.; and Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Parham, John W. (See Fiji Department of Agriculture)
Park, Frederick R. (See Mellon Institute)
Parker, Dr. Robert H. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Parnau, John L., Stockton, Calif.: 5 ferrierite specimens from Tuolumne Co., Calif. (252284).
Parodi, Dr. Jose (See Pla, Mrs. Josefina ) Parrillo, Carmine V., Providence,
R.I.: Test indicator (2538643).
Parser, Donald (See A. G. Parser, Ine.)
Parsons, Mrs. Charles E., Bethesda, Md.: 38 mint and used foreign postal ecards (252492).

<<<Page: 195>>>

Parsons, Mrs. John W., Baltimore, Md.: 19 marine snails from Bermuda (253287).
Parsons, William H., Meadville, Pa.: 8 chlorite specimens from Washington, D.C. (248670).
Patrick, John, Berkeley, Calif.: 6 minerals from worldwide localities (252150).
Patterson, Mrs. Morehead, Washington, D.C.: 9 American costume items, 19th and 20th centuries (248146).
Paul, Dr. Henry E., Norwich, N.Y.: Telescope (251009).
Pautzke, Dr. George C. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Pavilick, Edmund G., Queens Village, N.Y.: Double calipers and a scriber, 19th century (253246).
Pawley, James T., Annandale, Va.: Newspaper, Baltimore Clipper, bearing an account of President Abraham Lincoln’s death, Apr. 15, 1865 (248786).
Payne, Jerry A., Clemson, S8.C.: 35 caddis flies from the U.S. (249628).
Peacock, Daniel B. (See Peacock, Richard B.)
Peacock, Richard B. and Daniel B., Fairfax, Va.: 202 mammals from North Carolina and Virginia (254035).
Pearce, John N., Washington, D.C.: German World War II Nazi armband (253620).
Pecora, Dr. W. T., Washington, D.C.: 23 minerals from Montana (250053). (See also Seymour, Larry J.)
Pelletier, Mrs. Pearl M., Alexandria, Va.: Christening dress worn by donor’s husband, 1877 (252877).
Penfield, Loren Hall, Montreal, Quebee, Canada: Hacksaw, ca. 1810 (251555).
Penn Township Police Department, Hanover, Pa.: (Through Richard J. Hahn) mummified human left forearm and partial hand (249636).
Pennington, T. D., Oxford, Hngland: 47 phanerogams, 35 grasses, and 138 ferns from Ecuador collected by the Fielding-Druce Expedition (248279).
Pennsylvania, State of: Department of Highways: (Through Henry D. Harral) stone milepost, ca. 1810 (2538928).
Pennsylvania, University of, Philadelphia, Pa.: Library: (Through Mrs. Jean M. Green) book from the Comegys library (251844). Leptospirosis Field Laboratory, Managua, Nicaragua: (Through Dr. L. G. Clark) 419 mammals from Nicaragua (247744).
Pennsylvania State University, University. Park, Pa.: (Through Dr. Ronald A. Pursell) 54 miscellaneous cryptogams (250844, exchange).
Pequegnat, Dr. Willis E. (See Kerckhoff Marine Laboratory)
Pereyra, Dr. Walter T. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Permali, Incorporated, Mount Pleasant, Pa.: Rail joint, threaded rod, 4 nuts, and a rotating shaft, all made of processed wood (251648).
Permanent Mission of Guinea to the United Nations (See Guinea, Government of)
Perry, A. Roy (See Oxford University)
Pessagno, Dr. Emile A., Jr., Davis, Calif.: 21 radiolaria, types, from the Upper Cretaceous of Puerto Rico (249452).
Peters, Harry T., Jr.. Orange, Va.; Peters, Mrs. Natalie W., Islip, N.Y., and Webster, Mrs. Natalie P., New York, N.Y.: Circus poster (252319).
Peters, Mrs. Natalie W. (See Peters, Harry T., Jr.)
Peters, William L., Salt Lake City, Utah: 3 caddis flies from the Canal Zone (251590).
Peterson, Dr. B. V., Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: 8 blackflies from North America (250585, exchange).
Peterson, Mendel L. Washington, D.C.: 4 tokens bearing political connotations, 3 medals, 89 coins, tokens, and medals from Medieval times to the 20th century, and 417 German emergency coins, 1915-23, and tokens (248942, 249267, 253328, 253348, 253349) ; engraying of President Lincoln (249402) ; naval line-throwing projectile (249441) ; commemorative medal of the Coalbrookdale Bridge and Ketley incline, 1792 (250082) ; uniform of noncommissioned

<<<Page: 196>>>

officer, Tist New York Regiment, ca. 1890, and a McKeever Cartridge Box (252391) ; 2 amulets and 105 Korean copper coins dating from the 17th century (258091) ; 830 Chinese charms, 7 gambling counters, and 38 Chinese tokens (253093) ; 40 imitations of ancient and modern Greek and Roman eoins (253344) ; medal of B. Courtois, Representative in the ‘Conseil des Anciens,’ French Republic, 1789 (253345) ; 720 Chinese copper coins, 1st century B.C. to 19th century A.D. (253346) ; Italian coin balance with 16 weights, early 19th century and English guinea balance, 18th century (253347) ; 5 U.S. Navy uniform items (253615) ; 2 U.S. airmail covers (253852).
Petit, Richard E., Ocean Drive Beach, §.C.: Marine bivalve mollusk from South Carolina, holotype (248182).
Pettibone, Dr. Marian H., Washington, D.C.: 7 polychaete worms from Florida, paratypes, and 560 marine invertebrates (2482385, 252528).
Peyton, Dr. E. L., Fort Sam Houston, Tex.: 5 crabs (252530). (See also Defense, U.S. Department of)
Phelan, CMSgt. Thomas F., Peru, Ind.: 26 brachiopods and 2 crinoids from the Middle Devonian and Silurian of Indiana (249225).
Phelps, Dr. William H., Caracas, Venezuela: Bird skin (252343); 4 bird skins (252344, exchange).
Philadelphia Zoological Garden, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. Frederick A. Ulmer, Jr.) 3 isopods (282142).
Philip, Dr. Cornelius B., Hamilton, Mont. : 7 horseflies from Mexico (253901, exchange).
Philip, Mrs. Hoffman, Santa Barbara, Calif.: Gold snuffbox (250821).
Phillips, Ronald C. (See Florida, State of)
Pick, Albert, K61n -Weidenpesch, Germany: Katanga 10-franc note portraying President Tshombe (251150); 5kroner emergency note, Norway, ca. 1940 (252326); 5 traveler’s checks issued in Belgium, Germany, and Switzerland (253353).
744-993—64——_13
Pierce, Richard, Moline, Ill.: 3 agate cabochons and 5 pieces of rough agate, Lake Superior (250398).
Pierson, Mrs. J. O., New Orleans, La.: (Through Dr. Charles Sprague) collection of dental office material and equipment of Dr. C. Edmund Kells (254077).
Pike, Mrs. Annie Laurie, San Jose, Calif.: J. H. Lester sewing machine, ea. 1858 (248684).
Pinch, William W., Rochester, N.Y.: 8 meteorites and 24 minerals from worldwide localities (250356, 250543, exchanges) ; crinoid from the Devonian of Genesee Valley, N.Y. (251099); rutilated quartz sphere from _ Brazil (251814) ; trilobite and cephalopod from the Devonian of Jacox Run, near Genesee, N.Y. (253077). By
Pine, P. R. (See Harshaw Chemical Co.)
Pinhey, Dr. Elliot C. G., Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia: 398 dragonflies from Africa (251741, exchange).
Pipkin, Mrs. Sarah B. (See Gorgas Memorial Laboratory )
Pires, Dr. J. Mure¢a (See Universidade de Brasilia)
Pittman, Mrs. Velna, Meigs, Ga.: (Through D. Jamison Cain) post office cash box (250473).
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., Corpus Christi, Tex.: (Through W. A. Pumphrey) 2 specimens of sylvite with halite and anhydrite from Duval Co., Tex. (252270).
Pla, Mrs. Josefina, and Parodi, Dr.
Jose, Asuncién, Paraguay: Ceramic sculpture (252878). Plowden, Geoffrey (See Plowden,
Mrs. Philip)
Plowden, Mrs. Philip, Sussex, England: (Through Geoffrey Plowden and David Stockwell) silver goblet by R. & W. Wilson, Philadelphia, 1851 (251470).
Plummer, Mrs. Berniece, Rochester, N.Y.: Mussel from the Niagara River, Ontario (249435).
Pocock, Dorothy (See McGill University )
Poelt, Dr. J. (See Botanische Staatssammlung)

<<<Page: 197>>>

Poland, Government of: (Through Przedsiebiorstwo Eksportu) 1383 mint stamps and first-day covers of Poland (253859) .
Poling, James W., New York, N.Y.: 2 marine mollusks from Puerto Rico and a mollusk from New Caledonia (248041).
Polska Akademia Nauk Zaklad Paleozoologi, Warsaw, Poland: (Through Dr. Zofia Kielan-Jaworowska) 2 lots of polychaete worm jaws, Ordovician of Poland (249714).
Porotto, Fortunato, Washington, D.C.: 71 pieces, 12 covers, and 2 inserts of porcelain, French, 19th century (250970). (See also Porotto, Susan de Forest Day.)
Poretto, Susan de Forest Day and Fortunato, Daytona Beach, Fla.: 153 etchings, engravings, and drawings by various artists and 2 pistols in a case
(249889) .
Porto, Dr. S. P. S., Murray Hill, N.J.: Laser experimental crystal (251547).
Post, Dr. R. L. (See North Dakota State University )
Post Office Department, Washington, D.C.: (Through Greever Allan) 3,445 foreign mint postage stamps, souvenir sheets, meter impressions, postal stationery, postmarks, and booklets (247890, 251914, 253032, 253119): (through James M. Bell) 90 mint U.S. postage stamps (250919) ; 1,000 1and 83-dollar boating stamps (253835) ; (through Hon. J. Edward Day) American canceling machine (249257) ; (through John A. Gronouski) Emerson facing-canceling machine, Pitney-Bowes 2-module letter-sorting machine, and 10 prototype money order print-punch machines (251209).
Potlatch Forests, Inc., Lewiston, Idaho: (Through Herbert B. McKean) 16 finished boards of various woods (250965). Bradley-Southern Division, Warren, Ark.: (Through Omar Hilton) 15 finished pieces of lumber (250513).
Potts, Mary E. (See Duke University)
Pough, Dr. Frederick, New York, N.Y.: 2 specimens anhydrite with hornblende from Faraday Mine, Ontario, Canada and 3 anhydrites from Canada (250784, 250960) .
Powell, Dr. A. W. B. (See New Zealand Government of)
Powell, Guy C. (See Alaska State of)
Powell, Mrs. Wellington, New York, N.Y.: (Through Michael Arpad) 2 19th-century side chairs (253334).
Pradhan, Dr. S. (See India, Government of)
Pratt & Whitney Company, Inc., West Hartford, Conn.: (Through J. K. Schofield) Rogers-Bond Universal comparator, 1885 (250997).
Presidential Art Medals, Inc., Englewood, Ohio: 23 bronze medals representing past Presidents, signers of the Declaration of Independence, and famous Americans (252068) ; 26 silver medals representing famous Americans (252884) ; 2 John Fitzgerald Kennedy memorial medals (252885).
Prestridge, James A. (See Southern Cypress Manufacturers Association)
Pretoria, University of, Pretoria, South Africa: 26 phanerogams, 273 grasses, and 7 ferns from Africa (249318, exchange).
Price, Dale C., Cambridge, Mass.: Brass hand-operated fog whistle (254112).
Price, John W., Lancaster, Pa.: 40 slabs and 2 easts of trilobites and brachiopods from Lancaster, Pa. (249049).
Price, Dr. Roger D., St. Paul, Minn.: 13 mosquitoes from North America (253900).
Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.: (Through Dr. A. G. Shenstone) 5 electrical machines (248688).
Prins, Rudolph (See Louisville, University of)
Promislo, Charles (See Historical Documents Co.)
Provo, R. E., Washington, D.C.: 2 Civil War firearms (249857).
Przedsiebiorstwo Eksportu (See Poland, Government of)

<<<Page: 198>>>

Puerto Rico, University of, Mayagtiez, Puerto Rico: 76 marine algae from Puerto Rico (249813, exchange) ; (through Dr. Louis R. Almodovar) 11 marine algae from Puerto Rico (251720) ; (through Silverio Medina Gaud) 150 thrips from Puerto Rico (251600) ; (through Dr. Peter Glynn) 4 shrimps (249242, 249745); (through Dr. John E. Randall) 6 fishes, holotypes and paratypes of new species, and a shark from Curacao and Puerto Rico (248404) ; (through Mrs. Germaine L. Warmke) 500 minute marine gastropods from La Parguera and 750 marine mollusks from Puerto Rico and Barbados, B.W.I. (249438, 250529).
Pugh, Dr. Jean E., Newport News, Va.: 36 erayfishes (248883).
Pulawski, W. J. See Uniwersytetu Wroclawskiego)
Puleston, Peter, Brookhaven, L.L., N.Y.: 48 moths from Florida (249076).
Pumphrey, W. A. (See Pittsburgh Plate Glass, Co.)
Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.: 329 phanerogams, 138 grasses, and 20 ferns from the Bahamas and West Indies (250130, 253482, gift-exchange).
Pursell, Dr. Ronald A. (See Pennsylvania State University)
Pyeatt, Lyle E. (See California, University of)
Quaas, Harry L., Phoenix, Ariz.: 4 autunites from Washington (250958).
Queensland, University of, Brisbane, Australia: (Through Dr. James M. Moulton) 176 shrimps (233127, 234240, 234692, 235498).
Quick, Aletah (See Quick, Lelande)
Quick, Lelande (deceased): (Through Mrs. Lelande Quick) opal from Australia (252291).
Quick, Mrs. Lelande (See Quick, Lelande)
Quick, Lelande and Aletah, La Jolla, Calif.: 15 agates and spheres from the U.S. and Brazil (252290).
Quigley, Mrs. Mary M., Washington, D.C.: 16 proturans and 2 rockjumpers from Plummers Island, Md. (253925).
Quinby, Elsie Howland, Washington, D.C.: 18th-century arm chair (254078).
Rabideau, Mrs. Shirley, Madison, Wis.: 931 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign stamps (253867).
Rabor, Dr. D. S., Negros Oriental, Republic of the Philippines: 156 alcoholic birds (252168).
Radford, Keith W. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Radford College, Radford, Va.: 251 flies from Virginia (250584) ; through Dr. Richard L. Hoffman) 2 leeches, holotype and paratype (248529) ; crayfish and 3 isopods from Virginia and West Virginia (250391).
Radoslovich, Dr. E. W., Washington, D.C.: Paragonite in kyanite schist from Switzerland (248717).
Ragge, Dr. David R. Britain, Government of)
Rakowski, John, Fort Myers, Fla.: 5 specimens of gypsum from Fort Myers, Fla., and an epidote from Chaffee Co., Colo. (251087).
Raley, Robert L., Newark, Del.: Iron flesh fork (250453). (See also Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts)
Ralph, Dr. Patricia M. (See Victoria University )
Ramsay, Sandy, Glasgow, Scotland: Prehnite from Scotland (250052).
Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, Claremont, Calif.: 31 ferns from New Caledonia (252221) ; (through Dr. Robert EF. Thorne) 14 phanerogams (253233) .
Randall, Dr. John E. (See Puerto Rico, University of)
Raner, E., Zagreb, Yugoslavia : 4 mint postage stamps of Yugoslavia (248733).
Raney, Dr. Edward C. (See Cornell University )
Ranzini, Walter (See New York Daily News)
Rao, K. Ramesh (See Forest Research Institute)
Rapp, William F., Jr., Lincoln, Nebr. : 123 caddis flies from Nebraska (249621) ; 50 fresh-water diatom microslides (2523838). (See also Nebraska, State of)
Rasetti, Dr. Franco, Baltimore, Md.: Approximately 3,500 trilobites, Cambrian of Tennessee (252824).
(See Great

<<<Page: 199>>>

Rausch, Dr. Robert L. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Ray, Mrs. Ida Hartig, Washington, D.C.: Mourning picture, 1889 (252320).
Raymond, Mrs. Wayte, New York, N.Y.: 1,167 modern coins of the world (240869).
Reagan, Allan L. (See General Electric Co.)
Reddell, James (See Texas Speleological Survey )
Redfearn, Dr. Paul L., Jr., Springfield, Mo.: 27 bryophytes from Missouri (253819, exchange).
Redlands, University of, Redlands, Calif.: (through Prof. Gray Ward) general radio type string oscillograph, ea. 1930 (251306).
Reed, Dr. Clyde F., Baltimore, Md.: Fern from China (248660) ; 6 phanerogams, grass, and a fern (250342, 253810).
Reed, Sarah R., Washington, D.C.: 2 dolls (253802).
Reed, Dr. Theodore H. sonian Institution)
Reel, D. Thomas (See Hamilton Watch Co.)
Rees, Dr. William J. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Reese, Dr. Ernest S. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Reese, Dr. William D. (See Southwestern Louisiana, University of)
Reeves, Dr. John B. (See Florida, University of)
Reid, Mrs. Paul C. (See Lambrecht, Dr. E. D.)
Reig, Dr. Osvaldo A. Aires, University of)
Reinhard, Prof. H. J., College Station, Tex.: 8 tachinid flies from the U.S. (258391).
Reinthal, Dr. Walfried J., Knoxville, Tenn.: 23 butterflies from North America (248986, gift-exchange).
Reish, Dr. Donald J. (See Long Beach State College)
Reitz, Father Raulino (See Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues” )
Renouard, William B. (See Anaconda Co.)
(See Smith-
(See Buenos
Rentz, David C., San Francisco, Calif.: 28 thrips from California (251226).
Reynoldson, Le Roy A., Washington, D.C.: Pencil box, ca. 1870; toy fire engine and toy cannon, ca. 1890; medical magneto used as cure-all (252398).
Rhode Island, University of, Kingston, R.I.: Narragansett Marine Laboratory: (Through Steacy D. Hicks) 60 amphipods (240025); (through Patricia Ireton) 6 crayfishes (248907).
Rhodes University, Grahamstown, South Africa: (Through Dr. J. L. B. Smith) 7 fishes from South Africa (247586, 248801) ; 16 sharks from South Africa (249117, exchange) ; fish, paratype, from Mozambique (249311) ; fish, paratype, from Mozambique (250232, exchange).
Rhodesia and Nyasaland, Federation of: 2 mint stamps (252039).
Ricardi, Dr. Mario, Concepcién, Chile: 4 phanerogams, types from Chile (249328, 249983).
Rice, Dr. Dale W. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Rice, Richard L., Hillsboro, Oreg.: 32 minerals from Arizona, Canada, and Washington (248460, exchange).
Richards, Elisabeth, Germantown, Pa.: 8 textiles collected from the Igorots, Philippine Islands, 1906—09 (249365).
Richards, Dr. O. W., London, England: 7 flies from Africa and Chile (252236, exchange).
Richardson, Dorothy, Washington, D.C.: 3 foreign covers (253851).
Rickson, Fred R. (See Miami University)
Riedle, Florence, Georgetown, British Guiana: Seed apron from the Cikiyona tribe of Brazil (252461).
Riesenberg, Dr. Saul H., Washington, D.C. : Quiver with 13 arrows, bone point from Africa, and bone point from Tierra del Fuego (251759).
Riggs, Mrs. Augustus, IV, Woodbine, Md.: Fabergé seal, umbrella handle, and fob seal (251348).
Rigsby, Gordon (See Rigsby, Kathee)

<<<Page: 200>>>

Rigsby, Kathee, Merrie, and Gordon; and Hull, Mary Ann, Waynesville, Mo.: (Through William L. Witt) 45 crayfishes (248884).
Rigsby, Merrie (See Rigsby, Kathee)
Rijksherbarium, Leiden, Netherlands: 441 phanerogams, 23 ferns and grass from Malaysia (249539, 250174, exchanges).
Rijskmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through Dr. J. van der Vecht) 53 wasps from South America (251601, 251604, exchanges).
Riley, Robert H., Jr. (See Black & Decker Manufacturing Co.)
Ring, Bernard, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 3 covers of the 8th Annual Convention of the American First-Day Cover Society (252490).
Rivosecchi, Dr. Leo, Rome, Italy: 4 black flies (251223, exchange).
Roberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore, Md.: Brass crib with furnishings, ca. 1900 (249395).
Roberts, Dr. Frank H. H., Jr., Washington, D.C.: 2 paintings and a scrapbook (250457).
Roberts, Henry B. Richard J.)
Roberts, Dr. John Government of)
Roberts, Dr. John P. (See National Museum of Transport and General Steel Industries)
Roberts, Dr. R. A. U.S. Department of)
Robinson, Dr. A. G., Manitoba, Canada: 13 aphids from Manitoba (252235).
Robinson, Mrs. G. Edgar, Washington, D.C.: 3 examples of woman’s costume, 1895-1900 (249940).
Robinson, George E., St. Petersburg, Fla.: Brass-framed tintype (248798).
Robinson, George H., Falls Church, Va.: 7 fresh-water mollusks from Fairfax Co., Va. (248725).
Robinson, Dr. Harold E., Washington, D.C. : 191 flies (251606).
Robinson, John S., Jr., Falls Church, Va.: Burton Rogers tube tester, ca. 1929, and a Timmons loud speaker, ca. 1925 (250986).
(See Taylor, Dr.
(See Australia,
(See Agriculture,
Rocca Fund, Smithsonian Institution: Tourmaline from Brazil (249224).
Rochester, University of, Rochester, N.Y.: (Through J. Edward Hoffmeister) 566 hard corals, 2 mollusks, and 626 fossil corals (94120).
Rockefeller Institute, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Bruce R. Voeller) 22 cultivated ferns (248081).
Rocky Mountain Dental Products Co., Denver, Colo.: (Through Logan W. Barnard) professional kit of Nuk Sauger preventive and interceptive orthodontic program (252889).
Rodman, Thomas E., Odessa, Tex. : 10 limonite concretions from Odessa (252043). (See also Odessa Meteoritical Society, Inc.)
Rodney, W. G. (See S. Smith and Sons (England), Ltd.)
Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 3,626 miscellaneous minerals from worldwide localities (2477386, 248157, 248187, 248408, 248470, 248672, 248710, 248715, 248718, 248780, 249279, 249420, 249445, 249820, 249821, 249822, 249823, 249826, 249934, 250050, 250397, 250953, 251086, 251089, 251090, 251800, 251803, 251810, 251860, 252275, 252277, 252292, 252294, 252295, 252558, 252650, 252677, 252748, 252754, 252779, 253168, 253169, 253366, 253527, 253608, 253604, 253756, 253757) ; 199 minerals from Mexico (248253, 248706, 248712, 248716, 249751, 249815, 249817, 249819, 249986, 250046, 250049, 250400, 250955, 251802, 251808, 252276, 252293, 253076, 253526, 253605, 253752, 253753) ; 214 minerals from the U.S. and Mexico (248703, 248704, 249223, 249447, 249818, 250402, 251799, 252755, 253602, 258754, 253755); 20 minerals from the U.S. (248711, 248714, 248916, 249816, 251088, 251801, 252296, 252411, 252412, 2528138, 253759); approximately 500 gem crystals (250952).
Rofen, Dr. Robert R. (See George Vanderbilt Foundation)
Rogers, Mrs. Ann Carroll Meem (See Meem, Mrs. Harry G.)
Rogers, Ken E., Auburn, Ala.: 194 grasses from Alabama and Mississippi (248140).

<<<Page: 201>>>

Rohde, Dr. K., Kuala Lumpur, Malaya: 3 species of trematode helminths from Malaya, types (250364).
Rohn, R. E. (See Jersey Production
Research Co.)
Rohrer, Josephine Arthur, Estate of, Washington, D.C.: (Through Remsen B. Ogilby and American Security and Trust Co.) 68 items, including vases, 3-piece tea set, spoons, ladle, snuffer, snuffer tray, costume and textile items (250794).
Rohrer, Prof. Robert H. (See Emory University )
Romeiser, George C. (See Southern Hardwood Producers, Inc.)
Romer, J. D., Hong Kong: Sand fly from Hong Kong (2489380).
Roosevelt, Mr. and Mrs. Kermit, Washington, D.C.: Leather chaps worn by President Theodore Roosevelt, “teddy bear’ manufactured in 1903, and models of the ships, St. John and St. Andrew (252493).
Rosa, Peter J. (See Becker Manufacturing Co.)
Rose, Dr. Francis L., New Orleans, La.: New species of salamander from Jefferson Co., Ala., type and 3 paratypes (248477).
Rosenblatt, Dr. Richard (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography )
Rosengurtt, Dr. Bernardo, Montevideo, Uruguay: 127 grasses from Uruguay (252470).
Ross, Dr. Arnold, Gainesville, Fla.: Barnacle, holotype, Pleistocene of Florida, and 65 barnacles from the Bahamas (251095, 252529).
Ross, Gary N., Baton Rouge, La.: 37 phanerogams from Mexico (250338).
Ross, R. J., Jr. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Ross, Dr. Robert (See Virginia Polytechnic Institute)
Rothschild, Norman, New York, N.Y.: Practos and instoscope extinction meters (253088).
Rothstein, Arthur, New York, N.Y.: 34 photographs (248904).
Rout, John C. (deceased) : 23 postage stamps of Spain ‘and the Peoples Republic of China (253845).
Rowell, Dr. A. J.. Nottingham, England: 42 fossils from Hngland, Russia, and Australia (252850).
Rowley, James J. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey, England: 572 grasses (248663, 251275, 252831, 253807, exchanges) ; 376 phanerograms collected by the Royal Society Expedition to Mt. Kinabalu, North Borneo, 1961 (248667, exchange) ; 146 phanerograms and 4 grasses from Thailand (249811, exchange).
Royal College of Science and Technology, Glasgow, Scotland: (Through George H. Thomson) mercury column resistance (252118).
Royal Forest Department, Bangkok, Thailand: (Through Tem Smitinand) 19 pharerogams and 19 wood specimens from Thailand (249319).
Ruddick, Rev. James J. (See Canisius College).
Rudloe, Jack, Panacea, Fla.: Carved wooden knife-rest from Madagascar (258319).
Rudolph, Dr. E. D. (See Ohio State University )
Ruggieri, Prof. Guiliamo, Palermo, Italy: 31 brachiopods from Sicily (2523851).
Ruiz-Teran, Prof. Luis (See Universidad de los Andes)
Runyon, Robert, Brownsville, Tex.: 30 phanerogams and 8 grasses from Texas (249197, 250727).
Russell, Francis R. (See Babcock & Wilcox Co.)
Russell, Stanton B., Arlington, Va.: 19th-century machine (253947).
Rwanda, Government of: (Through Dr. A. Bertossa) 16 minerals from Rwanda (245396).
Ryan, James T., Washington, D.C.: 111 postage stamps of the Peoples Republic of China (253861).
Ryther, H. Morgan, Belchertown, Mass.: (Through Charles H. Wuerz, Jr.) 57 used and unused stamps of Thailand (250471).
washing

<<<Page: 202>>>

Ryukyu Islands, Government of: (Through Col. Norman D. King) 163 mint postage stamps and postal cards of the Ryukyu Islands (2538875).
S. Smith and Sons (England), Ltd., Glasgow, Scotland: (Through W. G.
Rodney ) Kelvin type ammeter (248569).
Sabrosky, Curtis W., Washington, D.C.: 297 flies from North America
(252852) ; 5 U.S. and foreign airmail eovers (253847). (See also Somers, Mrs. Elizabeth)
Sacchini, Wayne N. (See Ajax Manufacturing Co.)
Sadlick, Dr. Walter, Pocatello, Idaho: 4 lobsters from the Cretaceous of Montana (249051).
Saffel, Stephen, Morgantown, W. Va.: Fly from North America (251970, exchange).
Sager-Redford Lumber Co. (See California Redwood Assoc.)
St. John, Bruce See Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts)
St. John, Maj. Gen. R. HE. T. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Saitoh, Dr. Masatsugu (See Japan, Government of)
Sakagami, Dr. Shoichi F., Sapporo, Japan: 15 shore flies from Japan (252377).
Sakurai, Dr. Kinichi, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. 8. Hayashi) Yugawaralite from Kanagawa Pref., Japan (258748) .
Salter, William E., Washington, D.C.: 150 invertebrate fossils from the Pennsylvanian of New Mexico (249652) ; 6 marine mollusks from Milford, Conn. (250944).
Saltonstall, Leverett, Washington, D.C.: Sponge with likeness of John F. Kennedy, campaign novelty (252995).
Salud, Gilberto, Cérdoba, Mexico: (Through the Rey. Alfred B. Lau) Moth from Mexico (249421).
Sandels, Dr. Margaret R., Tallahassee, Fla.: 85 items of lace, needlework, and embroidery patterns, and a silk bonnet (247850).
Sanders, Rey. C. S., Richmond, Va.: (Through Mrs. John Paul Tyler) 112 ancient coins, seals, and bronze figurines collected in Asiatic Turkey, 1890— 1906 (249957).
‘Sanders, Clifford E., Kingsport, Tenn. : 10 mammals from Luangwa Valley, Northern Rhodesia (248862).
Sanders, Dr. Howard L. (See Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)
Sanders, Ottys, Dallas, Tex. : 25 jellyfishes, holotype and paratypes (248166).
San Diego Zoological Garden, San Diego, Calif.: (Through Dr. Robert W. Cooper) 59 primates from Africa and South America (249126).
Sando, Dr. William J. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Santa Barbara Museum of Natural History, Santa Barbara, Calif.: (Through Mrs. Faye B. Howard) 6 mollusks, including 2 paratypes, from Mexico (249252).
Santesson, Dr. Rolf (See Uppsala, University of)
Sao Paulo, University of, Sio Paulo, Brazil: (Through Dr. Paulo Sawaya) 5 echinoderms (249300).
Sapelo Island Research Foundation, Inc., Sapelo Island, Ga.: (Through Milton B. Gray) 5 fiddler crabs and a stomatopod (2479038) ; 12 isopods, types, from Georgia (253016).
Sargent, F. H., Picayune, Miss.: 8 grasses from Mississippi (252776).
Sargent, Mrs. Francis H. (See Simmons, Mrs. Nora Jane Smith)
Sargent and Greenleaf, Inc., Rochester, N.Y.: (Through Harry C. Miller) combination padlock (254093).
Sarnoff, Dr. Stanley, Bethesda, Md.: Hlectrophrenie resuscitator (2538099).
Sass, Dr. Donald B., Alfred, N.Y.: 2 invertebrate fossils from the Upper Devonian of northwestern Pennsylvania (250785).
Sato, Dr. Masami, Mito, Japan: 5 eryptogams (249972).
Sato, Shoichi (See Japan, Goyernmen't of)
Sattler, Dr. Klaus (See Zoologische Sammlung des Bayerischen Staates)

<<<Page: 203>>>

Saul, Mrs. L. R. (See California, University of)
Saunders, Dr. George B. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Saunders, Comdr. W. N., Silver Spring, Md.: Collection of 19th-century planes (253247).
Sawaya, Dr. Paulo (See Sio Paulo, University of)
Sawicki, Edward E. J., Theodore, Ala.: 9 agate cabochons from Clarke Co., Ala. (252289).
Sawyer, Mr. and Mrs. R. Tom, Ho-HoKus, N.J.: Model gas turbine locomotive, 1954 (252892).
Scammon, Richard M. merce, U.S. Department of)
Scarlett, Ron J. (See Canterbury Museum)
Schaldach, W. J., Tubac, Ariz.: 78 bird skins from Mexico (250948).
Scheele, Carl H., Arlington, Va.: 47 U.S. and foreign covers and 1 mint aerogramme of Japan (253889).
Schlee, Mrs. George, New York, N.Y.: 2 dresses, 1946 (253462).
Schmidt, Benjamin E., Baltimore, Md.: Alaskan jade cabochon (248917).
Schmidt, Mrs. Nevada Evans, Sarona, Wis.: Fruit jar, 19th century, flatiron, and 2 pieces of ornamental beadwork by the Mic Mac Indians (246936).
Schofield, J. K. (See Pratt & Whitney Company, Inc.)
Scholl, C. Russell, Clinton, Md.: Side chair (2533382).
Schrader, Howard, Princeton, N.J.: DeForest oscillion triode, ca. 1916, and a Signal Corps TB-1 vacuum tube, ca. 1918 (249268).
Schroebel, W. W., Rockville, Md.: 8 Marine mollusks from the Marshall Islands (248191).
Schultz, A. C. (See Capitol Medals, Inc.)
Schultz, Dr. Harald, Sio Paulo, Brazil: 2 plaster-of-Paris face masks of Indians, NE. Brazil (246538).
Schwartz, Dr. Albert, Miami, Fla.: 58 frogs and lizards, including 10 paratypes, from the West Indies (253458).
(See Com-
Schwarz, Dr. Ernst (See Defense, U. S. Department of)
Schwarz, Dr. M., Linz, Austria: 85 bees from Europe (252107, exchange).
Schwengel Fund, Gen. Frank R., Smithsonian Institution: Approximately 7,600 mollusks, 9 lots of marine invertebrates, and a fish collected in Tahiti, by Dr. Harald A. Rehder in 1963 (245528).
Schwimer, Maxwell (See Normac Printing and Envelope Corp.)
Schwulst, Maj. David E., Quantico, Va.: U.S. World War II jungle medical kit (250066).
Scott, Jack, Washington, D.C.: 29 marine mollusks from the coasts of Alabama and Florida and 2 crabs (2513890, 252472).
Scott, Brig. Gen. James D., West Austin, Tex.: (Through Sidney D. Haas) erest of the 249th Signal Battalion (250065).
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Dr. Abraham Fleminger) 196 copepods, including types from Gulf of California and the eastern Pacific, and 5 amphipods (250441, 251884); (through Dr. Theodore R. Folson) 324 amphipods and 10 shrimps (247045) ; (through Dr. Carl L. Hubbs) 2 sharks from the eastern Pacific (252540) ; (through Drs. Carl L. Hubbs and Richard Rosenblatt) shark from off San Diego Co., Calif. (249794) ; (through Dr. Robert H. Parker) 146 marine invertebrates (230217) ; (through Dr. Martin W. Johnson) 3 slides of copepods, including holotype, allotype, and paratypes (248829); 1,300 marine water striders, worldwide (2528538) ; 111 amphipods from the Arectic basin (258424); (through Dr. Conrad Limbaugh) 97 miscellaneous marine invertebrates and 3 mollusks (220360); (through Dr. William A. Newman) 70 Recent brachiopods from waters off California (246094, exchange) ; 4 barnacles (247601); (through Keith W. Radford) 43 parasitic isopods from Baja California (252139); (through Drs. Ernest 8S. Reese and Conrad Lim

<<<Page: 204>>>

baugh) 1,613 marine invertebrates (222491) ; (through H. George Snyder) 34 marine water striders from the Pacifie Ocean (253897).
Scullen, Dr. Herman A., Corvallis, Oreg.: 443 wasps from the Old World (251932).
Seale, A. T. F. (See Kerr-McGee Oil Industries, Inc.)
Sears, Claude M. (See Mobile River Saw Mill Co.)
Seccio de Botanica e Ecologia, Lourenco Marques, Mocambique: 23 phanerogams, 28 grasses, and a fern from MoGambique (249537, exchange).
Sedivy, Dr. Josef, Prague, Czechoslovakia: 5 parasitic wasps from North America (251861, exchange).
Semple, Dr. A. T., Turrialba, Costa Rica: 25 phanerogams and 29 grasses from Central and South America (247591).
Sering, Harry, Indianapolis, Ind.: 8 mineral specimens (253529, 258772).
Setzer, Dr. Henry W., Washington, D.C.: Foreign cover (253868).
Seymour, Larry J., Havre, Mont.: (Through W. T. Pecora) “jet” quartz from Bearpaw Mountains, Mont. (250405).
Shankland, Prof. Robert S. (See Case Institute of Technology)
Sharp, Dr. A. J. (See Tennessee, University of)
Shaw, Dr. J. N., Corvallis, Oreg.: 17 fresh-water snails from Oregon (246745).
Shea, Mrs. S. Hazen, Washington, D.C. : 82 campaign and fraternal society badges and buttons, Paisley shawl, various military items, hematite cylinder seal, and 31 ethnological items from worldwide localities (248406, 251753, 251988).
Sheffield, Mr. and Mrs. William Moreau (address unknown): 4 American Indian baskets and 380 Alaskan Eskimo items of carved ivory (249965).
Shelton, L. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Shenstone, Dr. A. G. (See Princeton University )
Shepard, Charles D., Washington, D.C.: Elevator machine, ca. 1898 (253245).
Sheppard, Haji A. Mubin (See Malaya, Federation of)
‘Shetler, Stanwyn G., Washington, D.C.: 295 eryptogams from Michigan (252774).
Shillinglaw, David L., Chicago, Ill.: Copy of letter written by donor to Newton D. Baker and reply, 1936 (247593).
Shope, Dr. Robert E. (See Belém Virus Laboratory)
Short, Omar, Washington, D.C.: 13 items of women’s costume of the 19th and 20th centuries, crochet hook, thimble, and piece of border lace (248573).
Short, Dr. Robert B. (See Hoffman, Mrs. Wyn)
Shorter College, Rome, Ga.: (Through Prof. Lewis Lipps) approximately 300 fossil vertebrates and gastropods from the Pleistocene of Bartow Co., Ga., collected by teaching staff and biology students (253930).
Shuler, Jay, Greenville, S.C.: 5 invertebrate fossils from the Hocene of South Carolina (247073) ; (through Dr. Erle G. Kauffman) 20 invertebrate fossils from the Eocene of South Carolina (249048).
Shulman, Dr. Emanuel V., Hillcrest Heights, Md., and Arpad, Michael, Washington, D.C.: 2 Tiffany stainedglass windows, 1897 (251653).
Shulman, Mr. and Mrs. Will, Livingston, N.J.: Caleite from Thomasville, York Co., Pa. (258075).
Shushan, Dr. Sam, Boulder, Colo. : 50 lichens from the U.S. (253230, exchange).
Sidney Krandall and Sons, Detroit, Mich.: Star sapphire from Ceylon (249670).
Siegenthaler, Dr. Irvin E., Stillwater, Okla.: 143 phanerogams, 69 grasses, and 8 ferns from Ethiopia (251715).
Sigafoos, Dr. Robert S. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Sigal, Dr. Jacques, Vincennes (Seine), France: 16 washed residues containing Foraminifera, Eocene of France (252483, exchange).

<<<Page: 205>>>

Silva Taboada, Gilberto, Marianao, Habana, Cuba: 81 miscellaneous marine invertebrates (220240).
Silverman, Len (See Ehrenreich, J.)
Simmons, Ernest G. (See Texas, State of)
Simmons, Mrs. Nora Jane Smith (deceased): (Through Mrs. Francis H. Sargent) pine quilting frame, ca. 1830 (252876).
Simpson, Dwight S., Estate of: (Through Mrs. Dwight S. Simpson) 2 half-models, Bertha D. Nickerson and Friendship Sloop (254107).
Simpson, Mrs. Dwight S. (See Simpson, Dwight 8S.)
Simpson, Thomas A. (See Alabama, State of)
Sims, Harold W., Jr. (See Florida State Board of Conservation)
Sinclair, Dr. Ralph M., Nashville, Tenn.: 34 Asiatic clams from Alabama, California, and Tennessee, and a snail from Tennessee (253288). (See also Tennessee, State of)
Sinclair Oil & Gas Co., Tulsa, Okla. : (Through Arthur L. Bowsher) section of core with lithostrotionid coral from the Wolfcamp formation, Hutchinson Co., Tex. (251093).
Sinkankas, John, San Diego, Calif.: Tourmalinated quartz from Brazil and sphalerite from New Jersey (249667, exchange).
Siske, John, Arlington, Va.: Model of John Smeaton’s boiler, 1765 (251554).
Sittig, Mr. and Mrs. Edgar, Shawneeon-Delaware, Pa.: Slag fragments from the Stiegel glass factory (251918).
Skelly Oil Co, Tulsa, Okla: (Through W. F. Bailey) model of Velma oil pool (252791).
Skutch, Dr. Alexander F., San Isidro del General, Costa Rica: 39 phanerogams, 3 ferns, and a eryptogam from Costa Rica (249781).
Slater, John C., Chula Vista, Calif. : (Through Capt. Robert Waldron) brass running light from an unknown former Revenue Cutter (254065).
Slight, Charles E., Laurinburg, N.C.: U.S. stamped envelope (250080).
Smalley, Dr. Alfred E. (See Tulane University )
Smith, Dr. A. C., Honolulu, Hawaii: 52 ethnological items from the Waiwai tribe of British Guiana, and a Kava bowl from Fiji Islands (249809).
Smith, Dr. Clyde F., Raleigh, N.C.: 7 Slides of aphids from the U.S. (248922).
Smith, Brig. Gen. Edward P., Fort Bragg, N.C.: (Through Sidney D. Haas) 40 U.S. distinctive insignia and
backgrounds for ground badges (252386) .
Smith, Dr. J. L. B. (See Rhodes University )
Smith, Dr. Leslie M., Davis, Calif. : 39 insects from Mexico, Panama, and the U.S.: (249058).
Smith, Mrs. Lloyd S., Arlington, Va.: 8 examples of costume, 19th and 20th centuries (249796).
Smith, Dr. Ralph I. (See California, University of)
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.: (See also the following funds: Charles and Rosanna Batchelor, Canfield, Casey, Chamberlain, Improvement of Insect Collection, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Rocca, Roebling, Gen. Frank R. Schwengel, Springer, and Walcott) Astrophysical Observatory: Dalton caleulating machine, ca. 1915 (251557). Bureau of American Ethnology: 1,157 archeological items from Coclé and Herrera Proyinces, Panama (219603) ; 6,031 archeological items from Signal Butte, Scotts Bluff Co., Nebr., collected by Dr. W. D. Strong, 1982 (249360). River Basin Surveys: 108 archeological specimens from Eldorado Co., Calif. (249361) ; 18,603 archeological items from the Medicine Creek Reservoir, Frontier Co., Nebr. (248669) ; 698 archeological items from Mercer and Williams Cos., N. Dak. (249357) ; 7 archeological items from Pottawatamie Co., Kans. (249858) ; 3,022 archeological specimens from the Dardanelle Reservoir, Ark., 1957-58
251288) ; large photograph of early 20th-century harvesting scene (252317) ; 5,250 archeological items from

<<<Page: 206>>>

site 89P07, Oahe Reservoir, Potter Co., S. Dak. (253317). Deposits: (Through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) 547 bird skins, an egg and nest, 26 skeletons, mollusks, and pottery sherds (248920). Hditorial and Publications Division: (Through Mrs. Hileen McCarthy) 166 U.S. and foreign used stamps, 188 U.S. and foreign covers, and 92 mint and used postage stamps of Ghana (252355, 253871). Freer Gallery of Art: Bronze medal commemorating 50th anniversary of Medallic Art Company and bronze medal commemorating 25th anniversary of the Commission of Fine Arts (253092). International Exchange Service: (Through Jeremiah A. Collins) 51 U.S. and foreign covers (253866). Library: (Through Ruth HB. Blanchard) 5,809 U.S. and foreign covers and used stamps (253834) ; (through Jack S. Goodwin) 55 U.S. and foreign used stamps and covers (258864). Made in Laboratories: Wooden dagger (2487438) ; model of a wind vane, ca. 1860 (249271); 5 pieces of Ampere demonstration apparatus (250502) ; model of an 1844 Masters chemical ice maker and freezer (250503); 8 reproductions of glass slides showing original electron diffraction exposures (251393) ; model of Holloway steam engine, 1819 (252392) ; replica of a traverse board (253106) ; 5,085 photographs of type specimens of plants (2538598); photographs of 382 phanerogams, 24 grasses, 76 ferns, and 180 eryptogams (2538138); chip log (254102) ; model of a 2-wheeled dray (254114). Collected: U.S. National Museum: 150 mammals, birds, and 2 reptiles and amphibians from Panama collected by George Barrett, Sr. (254031) ; 1,353 phanerogams and 46 ferns from New Caledonia collected by Dr. M. G. Baumann-Bodenheim and associates (248212, 252832) ; approximately 200,000 bryozoa from a number of measured stratigraphic intervals in the Simpson group, Ordovician of Oklahoma, collected by Dr. Richard S. Boardman, 1962 and 1963 (251770) ; 5,901 miscellaneous insects, 880 mollusks, 4 birds, reptiles, 720 marine in-
vertebrates, and ethnological items from Rapa, collected by Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Gates Clarke (248750) ; 396 insects from Mexico and South America collected by Mrs. Doris Blake and Dr. Doris M. Cochran (253606); 200 phanerogams and 40 woods from Baja California, Mexico, collected by Dr. Richard S. Cowan (245732); 1,076 insects from Austria and Germany collected by Dr. Ralph E. Crabill, Jr. (251596); 618 marine invertebrates, approximately 85 mollusks, and 1 lot of fishes from India and Italy collected by Charles EH. Cutress (248522) ; collection of miscellaneous arthropods from Mexico collected by Drs. Donald R. Davis and W. Donald Duckworth, July—August 1963 (253909); 1,280 butterflies and moths from North America collected by William D. Field, 1962 and 1963 (251458, 251459) ; 5,904 miscellaneous insects from Jamaica collected by Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., July-August 1962 (242625) ; approximately 350 mammals from the early Tertiary, middle and lower Eocene, and Paleocene of Wyoming, collected by Dr. C. L. Gazin and Franklin L. Pearce, 1963 (247667) ; 121 fishes from Port Louis, Mauritius, collected by Dr. Robert H. Gibbs (248985); 525 lichens from Florida collected by Dr. Mason EH. Hale (253063) ; 1,565 mammals, birds, 58 reptiles and amphibians, a fish, 42 mollusks, from Panama collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., and Frank M. Greenwell, 1963 (245109) ; 1,000 mammals, birds 161 reptiles and amphibians, 11 mollusks from Panama collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., 1964 (251037) ; 65 mammals and 5 amphibians from southwest Virginia collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr. (254032) ; 220 minerals from Australia collected by Dr. Edward P. Henderson (252812) ; 270 erayfishes collected by Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. (248966) ; 1,200 Recent echinoids from off Key West and Fort Myers Beach collected by Dr. Porter M. Kier and Norman F. Sohl, June— July 19638 (251766) ; 282 mammals, insects, 120 reptiles, 2 marine inverte

<<<Page: 207>>>

brates, and 70 mollusks from Mauritius and Malagasy Republic collected by Kenneth I. Lange, Howard EH. Uible, and Everett D. Cashatt (249927) ; 1,392 mammals, insects, 5 reptiles from Southern Rhodesia, South Africa and South West Africa collected by Alvin L. Moore, Arthur C. Risser, and Ronald E. Cole (248891); (through Dr. Philip S. Humphrey) 2,227 fishes from the central Pacific and 2 crabs from Johnson Atoll collected by the Pacific Ocean Biological Survey program (252024, 253451); 459 bird skins and 89 mammals collected by the Pacific Ocean Biological Survey program (253934, 254029); 146 marine and freshwater mollusks from the Hawaiian, Johnston, and Kure Islands, and Tutuila, American Samoa, collected by the Pacifie Ocean Biological Survey program (254048) ; 751 artifacts recovered from underwater sites in the vicinity of Bermuda, collected by Fred Maytag, Hugh O’Brien, Edward B. Tucker, M. L. Peterson, Alan B. Albright, and John Ellis, 19638 (244119) ; 32,125 marine invertebrates collected by Mrs. La Nelle Peterson (248131); 631 mammals, insects, and 53 reptiles from Iran, collected by Gary L. Ranck and Lee Herman (249167) ; 188 bryophytes from Mexico collected by Dr. Harold E. Robinson (253061) ; 13 specimens of tobacco, toys, and rosaries from Mexico and 2 lots of pinion nuts collected by Dr. J. N. Rose, 1897-1910 (252771) ; 27,003 marine invertebrates, mammals, 9,355 insects, botanical specimens, 26 bottom samples and fossil eollections, 79 fishes, 75 mollusks, and 41 rocks collected by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt (247268) ; 9 fishes from Seidel Creek, near Redmond, Wash., collected by Dr. Leonard P. Schultz and Alfred Strohlein (250764); 7 bot fly larvae from North America collected by Dr. Henry W. Setzer (252169); 25 phanerogams and 6 grasses from the Pacific Islands collected by Dr. I. C. Sibley (252836) ; 479 phanerogams, 58 grasses, and 27 ferns from Alaska collected by
Dr. William J. L. Sladen (2385754) ; 11 phanerogams, 542 grasses, and a eryptogam from Trinidad collected by Dr. Thomas R. Soderstrom, 1963 (251255) ; 100,000 ostracodes and other invertebrate animals from Israel and Europe collected by Dr. I. Gregory Sohn (249756); 33,340 miscellaneous insects, snails, 2 fishes, 2 mollusks, 1,564 marine invertebrates, reptiles and amphibians from Mexico and the U.S. collected by Dr. Paul J. Spangler, July—August 1963 (253913); 684 marine invertebrates, 88 mollusks, 34 reptiles and amphibians, 2 lots of fishes collected by Dr. Donald S. Squires and Thomas Baker (240186) ; 238 phanerogams, 10 grasses, 30 ferns, and 3 eryptogams from Florida collected by Dr. W. C. Sturtevant, 1959 (252339) ; 205 grasses from South Africa collected by Dr. Jason R. Swallen (253070) ; 1,608 mammals from Panama collected by Edwin L. Tyson (237935) ; 48 specimens of Texas Acanthaceae collected by Dieter Wasshausen (250781) ; 18 mineral specimens from Maryland collected by John S. White, Jr. (258523, 253746). Found in Collections: Albee Hlectro-Operative bone set (249086) ; 801 archeological items from miscellaneous sites (249362, 252459, 252460) ; terra cotta antefix (249963); black silk veil, ca. 1880 (250980) ; 89 vacuum tubes (250988); engraving, The Machine at Marly, 1705 (250998); 2 rod targets (251005) ; panel parts of a barometer (251556) ; Bourdon pneumatic demonstration apparatus tube, Thatcher calculating rule, analytical balance, weights and measures demonstration apparatus, and 3 pieces of chemical blown glassware (251559) ; slide rule, 2 hydrometers, and a thermometer (251560); water level (251561); 48 minerals from worldwide localities (251806, 252815) ; 3 desk baskets (251846); surveyor’s eross (2523810); planimeter (252312) ; photographs on cloth sensitized with iron salts (252865); 2 Colt Flash pistols and a box of magnesium cart

<<<Page: 208>>>

ridges (252367) ; 2 mollusk shells covered with Tlinket Indian basketry (252772) ; patent model of Try-Square, 1857 (252898) ; pocket altazimuth compass (253102) ; Powers water-powered air compressor, ca. 1915 (253241) ; World War I enlisted man’s dress uniform, U.S. Marine Corps sword and scabbard, ca. 1934, officer’s dress uniform, 1900-03, and a cape (254063) ; 2 German-type vacuum tubes (254076) ; 2 typewriters, Patent Office models (254082) ; gyroscopic collimator (254095). National Air Museum: 152 used postage stamps of Ghana (251190). National Zoological Park: Fish (251889) ; 2 bird skins, 10 skeletons, and 2 alcoholics (253933); (through Dr. Theodore H. Reed) 3 panes of glass from Holt House bearing political slogans from the 1820’s (249263) ; 9 mammals (254044). Purchased: 7 pieces of electrical apparatus (2057384) ; 60 ethnological items from the Endo Marakwet people of Kenya (234926) ; stone sundial, ca. 15th or 16th century (240061) ; 170 ethnological items from Taiwan, China (242416) ; 79 Chinese theatre items from Taipei, Taiwan (242417); model of Atlantic Coast Line railroad #1800 locomotive (242519) ; 103 ethnological items from contemporary Japan, and a cultivating machine with parts (242908); silver keyed bugle (248422); statues and related textile and brass paraphernalia to compose a village shrine of India, 40 items (2438774) ; 255 contemporary ethnologieal items from Burma (244829); 6 Nigerian plaster casts (246020); 5 easts of Bushmen (246099) ; 76 items of home furnishings from Korea (247433); beaded bag, bandana, and 2 dresses, 19th and 20th centuries (248145); 2 fashion magazines and 2 Godey’s (248202) ; model of a B. & O. flour car, 1832 (248211) ; silk on linen sampler, 1791 (248383); illustrated volume, Domestic Needlework, by Seligman & Hughes (248457) ; marble statue with pedestal, Nydia, the Blind Girl of Pompeii, by Randolph Rogers
(248479) ; purse, late 17th or early 18th century (248480); Queen Anne mirror, ca. 1740 (248531); dress and petticoat, French, ca. 1760, and man’s robe with vest, ca. 1770 (248544); 5 replicas of antique glass thermometers (248673) ; 2 measuring instruments, 17th century (248674) ; 3 Chippendalestyle side chairs, late 19th century (248776) ; walnut cradle from Pennsylvania, 18th century (248777); New Jersey chair (248896) ; 28 stereoscopic views (248935) ; 18387 U.S. penny and metal coin bearing likeness of President Lincoln (248945) ; Delaware chair (249035) ; cupboard, ca. 1740 (249036) ; Portuguese small footed dish (249081) ; Pennsylvania dough trough (249129) ; chest from New Castle, Del. (249131) ; balance, scoop, 2 spoons, and 4 golddust boxes from Ashanti, Ghana (249216) ; 9 household objects and utensils used in French colonial period (249244); chair, copper pan, armoire, and door (249245) ; 20 campaign items, including a William Jennings Bryan poster, and 18 additional gift items (249265) ; model of Watt’s “Lap Engine,” 1788 (249295) ; 50 yards of brocade (249364); set of two anthropometrie calipers (249868) ; 6 copies of rock paintings from the Tassili mountain area of eastern Algeria (24938783) ; model of a magic lantern (249406) ; 2 17th-century lodestones (249409) ; U.S. rifle, model 1841, colonial halberd, ea. 1750, pugilist’s championship belt (249438) ; the journal of Samuel Nutt on Baitle of the Capes of the Chesapeake, 1781 and Battle of the Saints, 1782 (249439) ; replica of mechanical cyclotron model (249511) ; model of Stephenson horse car, 1875-80 (249516) ; 4 plaster casts (249560) ; 3 engravings, Moses and Jethro, by Karel Van Mander, Birth of St. John the Baptist, by Perino del Vaga, and Zwo Nymphs of Diana, by Jan Saenredam (249568) ; model of Sommeiller’s first rock drill, 1861 (249567); Victorian couch (249570); 255 frogs from Colombia (249630) ; Queen Anne chair, ca. 1740-50.

<<<Page: 209>>>

and a walnut desk-box, 18th century (249655) ; 8 playing cards, ca. 1800 (249656) ; écuelle, crucifix, and reliquary of silver, acanthus leaf decorative plaque, and rocking chair (249746); model of Letter-of-Marque schooner Lyn (249753); bell-metal cauldron (249845); 2 hetchels, 2 skillets, and a painted wash stand (249846) ; color lithograph, Empire Hook and Ladder Polka (249861) ; model of a Pullman Standard 1 boxcar (249863) ; model of Troy Wagon Works trailer, ca. 1916 (249866) ; stagecoach horn, ca. 1840 (249867) ; model of Baltimore clipper Sea Lark (249868) ; model of a Chesapeake Bay skiff (249869) ; 2 railroad lanterns, ca. 1850-80 (249870) ; model of schooner Flying Fish (249871) ; watercolor painting, by Professor Bergen, of World War I German U-boat Alarmtauchen (crash dive) (249985); 10 sharks from the western Pacific (250039) ; chiaroscuro woodcut, The Holy Family, by Abraham Bloemart (250069); profile milling machines, 1850-60 (250081) ; Mexican-type packsaddle (250304); 308 phanerogams and 26 grasses from New Caledonia (250348, 251448) ; reproduction of Franklin clock, 1757 (250359) ; replica of B. I. Faraday’s original apparatus (250360); man’s vest, 18th century (250362); land grant document, 18th century (250455); carved domino board and chair (250474) ; animated counting device (250507) ; mechanical planetarium and a parallel rule (250508); armillary sphere (250509); 2 star finders, Whitall’s hemisphere, 1862, and Whittaker’s planisphere (250510); model of Harrison ice machine, 1855 (250715) ; models of the Menai suspension bridge and Angelsey tower (250725); wool-on-linen sampler, ca. 1880 (250798); 19 items associated with tobacco smoking from the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries 250795) ; model of diesel-electric road switcher, 1941 (250798) ; 109 mammals from British Guiana (250915); U.S. Indian War haversack, post Civil War
(250949) ; rare Chinese Export porcelain punch bowl, ca. 1760 (250968) ; bust of George Washington by Staffordshire Potters, ca. 1780 (250971); 9 prints of civil-engineering subjects (250991) ; model of Holden ice plant, 1877 =(250992); water-color sketch Bridge Over the Elbe, ca. 1790 (250994) ; collection of wood-threading taps and dies and carpenter’s clamps (250995) ; model of Cleftridge Bridge, 1871 (250999) ; astronomical chart, ca. 1690, and broadside describing planetarium, 1711 (251006) ; model showing the fermentation of glucose (251008) ; model of Karlsbriicke bridge over Donaukanal, Vienna (251139); blank chest, early 19th century (251145) ; 3 Roman denarii struck ca. 68-66 B.C. (251169) ; Quasi-War enlistment certificate of 1799 (251219) ; 5 archeological specimens (251284); 5 apothecary jars, 2 tobacco jars, iron doorbell, all English, ea. 1800-40, French ceramic jar, ca. 1720 (251382) ; model of PB4Y (B—24) aircraft (251469) ; soup bowl and dinner plate from the administration of President James K. Polk (251471) ; denarius, Judaea, A.D. 1382-1385 (251473) ; engraving, Cadmus’ Companions Devoured by a Dragon, by Hendrick Goltzius (251475); diorama, Jce Cutting on the Hudson River, late 19th century (251479) ; bloodletting scarificator and set of dental hand instruments (251481); replica of Stanley transformer, 1886 (251546); 50 pharmaceutical tin containers, 2 tincture bottles, and 11 1-ounce glass bottles (251548) ; brass suppository mold, portable apothecary scale, and Konseal filling and closing apparatus (251550) ; dental foot bellows, 9 medicinal containers, and German paper-weighing seales (251551) ; 10 pieces of electrical, medical, and physical apparatus (251552); 6 lots of plankton specimens from Tonga Islands (251628) ; Sequoia gigantea tree section (251659); 5 locks, latch, 3 calipers, coffee mill, and Cooleys patent (251660); Huropean proportional dividers, 18th century

<<<Page: 210>>>

(251709) ; U.S. Naval Commissioned Officer’s sword, formerly owned by Rear Adm. David W. Taylor, ca. 1920—50 (251792) ; framed copper-plate engraving of a Ship-of-War, English, 1750 (251793) ; stoneware churn (251845) ; 42 antique objects of early California (251849) ; Henry Clay-Theodore Frelinghuysen political-campaign banner, 1844 (251853); rolling pin, warming pan, branding iron, flesh fork, wooden bucket (251919); man’s 18th-century coat (252053); 28 items of costume material, 18th and 19th centuries (252112); 1,088 caddis flies from Brazil (252172) ; 44 colonial and state bank notes, 18 vignettes, and 3 ancient Greek coins (252178) ; side chair, burl bowl, tablecloth, knife box, napkins, rollertowel rack (252237); wrought-iron latch, set of wrought tongs, and an ornate bullring (25238038); 30 letters written in 1852 by Dr. Rueben C. Moffatt (252304); model of Stagg Field racquets court (252305) ; scientific display of Discovery of Electron (252306) ; alembic and moors head (252311); replica of Champlain astrolabe and replica of mariner’s astrolabe (252816) ; 2 uncut 4-subject sheets of obsolete bank notes (2528382); 36 ancient Greek and Roman coins (252333, 252488); scraper (2523894); Roman surgery set, figure of Isis nursing Horus, 26th dynasty, and two votive offerings of Greece, 2nd or 3rd centuries B.C. (252498) ; fertility statuette, African, ca. 1860, Clyster syringe, late 18th century, otoscope set, late 19th century, framed votive offering of a hand, Swaziland, 19th century, hearing aid, and small brass microscope (252499) ; bronze weight, A.D. 100, alabaster weight, 8rd century B.C., glazed faience weight, alabaster pestle, 26th-30th dynasty, all of Egypt; terracotta weight from Greece, amulet, 8thcentury Islamic, and Roman mortar from Syria, A.D. 100-200 (252500) ; engraving, The Flight Into Egypt, by Hendrick Goudt, after Adam Elsheimer, 1618 (252787); serigraph, Con-
struction in Gray, by Norio Azuma (252788) ; 6 modern bronze medals (252793) ; bronze plaquette and medal (252794); 9 coin buttons imitating 18th-century coins of Austria and Salzburg (252795); saw and pot hooks (252797) ; water-wheel model (252801) ; replica of stained-glass medallion, “The Turner” in the cathedral at Chartres, France, 13th century (252802); U.S. Lockheed F-80 (252847) ; woodcut, Portrait of a Physician, by Hans Jelinek (252879); replica of Moissan’s fluorine apparatus (252891) ; 7 imitations of gold California tokens (252895) ; 105 ferns from Africa and Malaya (253064); slate print (253087) ; 13 sermons and broadsides (253090); 68 obsolete state bank notes (258098) ; model of steamer Bunker Hill (258103); 14-second hourglass (253104) ; model of yacht America (253105) ; model of an 1804 merchant ship (253107) ; model of San Francisco scow schooner James F. McKenna (253108) ; lathe tool (253240) ; engraying, Famous American Inventors (253249); replica of Blanchard gunstock lathe, 1820, and gunstocks (253252) ; 4 ancient Egyptian amulets (253254) ; model of ship Hannibal (253258) ; broadside, An Act for further regulating the Plantation Trade (253336) ; 2 engravings, Savannah as it Stood on the 29th of March, 1784 and An Hast Perspective View of the City of Philadelphia, in the Province of Pennsylvania (2538387); silver bulbous pint ean, ca. 1750-60 (258338) ; 17th-century hornbook (2538339); Massachusetts broadside, 1761 (253340) ; sea chart by Johannis Van Keulen, 1683 (253341) ; 6 medals commemorating American and British historical and numismatic figures and events (253342); 8 medals and 2 plaquettes by Paul Vineze (253343, 2538539); collection of i18th-century fabrics (253452); 2 uncut 4-subject sheets of obsolete bank notes (253540) ; 27 pharmaceutical stock bottles (253541) ; cover sheet of a piano composition entitled Les Indiens & Paris

<<<Page: 211>>>

and Desert (253596) ; portfolio, Prints and Poems, by Andrew Stasik and Harold G. Henderson (253628) ; blacksmith shop equipment and tools (253631) ; model of the barkentine Kohala (253649) ; muffin pan and a steel fork (253776) ; 2 jugs, 2 spoons, potato masher, wooden spade, and a mallet (253777) ; frying pan (253778); Chinese gourd bottle (253779) ; gold pan, Chinese pottery jar, flatiron, tin dipper, and a sewing machine (253780) ; cast-iron stove and an iron kettle (253781); iron pot (253782); bean pot (253783) ; silver spoon, 1848, Chinese jar, pair of crucibles with gold dust, candle snuffers, Chinese scissors, brass tinder box (253784) ; ice-cream scoop, 8 Chinese jars, candle mold, churn lid, shoulder yoke, scoop (253785) ; chopping block, Chinese skimmer, stoneware jar, iron pot, tin dipper, apple corer, pot cleaner (253786) ; spice box and a wooden bowl (253787) ; 2 English Delft plates, wooden box, Shaker box, iron divider, Mason’s line winder, perforated-board window ventilator, cast-iron teakettle, and stoneware jar (253788) ; 3 iron pots, Chinese hand scale, cooking pot with cast-iron lid, Chinese basket, ladle, pair gilt carved corners (253789); knife, 5 pairs of knives and forks, 2 ironstone plates, knife sharpener, baking dish, and ironstone bowl (253790) ; iron mortar (253791); ladder-back rocking chair (253793) ; trivet, utility hook, long-handled pan, revolving gridiron (253796) ; Chinese vinegar jar, Chinese wok, cowboy bench, dough box, opium bottle (253798); Shaker box, Delft plate, and earved box (253799) ; 183 phanerogams from South Africa (2538822); 60,000 slide mounts of thrips from the J. Douglas Hood collection, including holotypes and paratypes from worldwide localities (253894); lacquered table and service of stainless-steel dishes from Korea (254014) ; skeleton of a galago (254046) ; skeletons of an opossum and a marmoset (254047) ; lithograph, Washington at the Battle of Trenton (254055) ; model of Grum-
man “TBE” aircraft (254066) ; model of U.S. sidewheel steamer Powhatan, 1850 (254069) ; model of Fulton Steam Battery Demologos (254068) ; microscope lamp (254078) ; microscope lamp with porcelain chimney (254079) ; typewriter, Remington Model 10 (254088) ; 2 clock escapements (254089) ; replica of 17th-century Pascal calculating-machine section (254097); model of an ice wagon, ca. 1900 (254100) ; model of a milk wagon, ca. 1900 (254101) ; model of fast cargo boats Augusta and Raymond (254108); hack passenger wagon, ca. 1900 (254104) ; lithograph of Baldwin geared locomotive, ca. 1840 (254105) ; model of steam schooner Whitney Olson (254106) ; model of Mason Bogie locomotive, 1876 (254108) ; model of Union Pacific Railroad ccach, 1868 (254116); model of Cincinnati and Lake Erie Railroad interurban car (254117) ; model of Chicago and North Western class “D” locomotive (254119). Office of the Registrar: (Through Helena M. Weiss) 3838 U.S. foreign covers and 136 U.S. and foreign used stamps (2538829).
Smitinand, Tem (See Royal Forest Department)
Smyth, Mrs. Robert L., San Francisco, Calif.: 100 water colors of Central American plants by Marie Louise Evans (2389791).
Snelling, Roy County Museum)
Snyder, Alvin A. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Snyder, H. George (See Seripps Institution of Oceanography)
Society of Medalists, New York, N.Y.: Medal commemorating man’s advance into space (249851); 2 bronze medallions issued in 1963 by donor (252071).
Society of Petroleum Engineers of AIME, Dallas, Tex.: (Through Joe B. Alford) film, Oil from the EHarth (249408).
Society of St. Ursula of the Blessed Virgin, Marygrove, Kingston, N.Y.: 75 photographs and films of the raising of the gondola Philadelphia (254060).
(See Los Angeles

<<<Page: 212>>>

Society of Washington Printmakers, Arlington, Va.: (Through Prentiss Taylor) intaglio, Image III, by Lois Fine; woodcut, The Valley, by Isabella Walker; lithograph, Nova Scotia, by Louis Lozowick (253625).
Socolof, Ross, Palmetto, Fla.: (Through Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod) 10 fishes from Colombia (248612, 252021).
Sogandares, Dr. Franklin (See Tulane University)
Sohl, Norman (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Sohma, Dr. Kankichi (See Tohoku University )
Sohn, Dr. I. Gregory, Washington, D.C.: 10 mollusks from Israel and 14 minerals from Israel and Texas (250527, 251812). (See also Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Solbrig, Dr. Otto T., Cambridge, Mass.: 12 grasses from California (248913).
Solecki, Dr. Ralph, New York, N.Y.: Pair of Kurdish leather shoes from Iraq (249217).
Somers, Mrs. Elizabeth, Sturgis, Mich.: (Through Curtis W. Sabrosky) 2,681 U.S. and foreign postage meter impressions, covers, and used and unused postage stamps (250797).
Sonner, John M., Alexandria, Va.: Piece of “U”’ rail, ca. 1855 (249864).
Soper, Ellis C., Franklin, N.C.: Agatized wood from near Deseado, Argentina (251807).
Soukup, Dr. J., Lima, Peru: 44 phanerogams and 3 grasses from Peru (243555).
South Africa, Republic of: Department of Agriculture: (Through Dr. H. K. Munro) 2 fruit flies from Africa (253908).
South African Association for Marine Biological Research, Durban, Natal, South Africa: Oceanographic Research Institute: (Through Jeanette D. D’Aubrey) 5 sharks from South Africa (251587, exchange).
South African Museum, Capetown, South Africa: 4 plaster casts of Zimbabwe objects (244210, exchange) ; (through Dr. Frank H. Talbot) 3
744-993—64——_14
sharks, jaws and tails of sharks, and 2 catfishes (250087).
South Carolina, University of, Co-
lumbia, 8.C.: (Through Dr. W. T. Batson) 380 lichens from South Carolina (249186).Southern California, University of, Los Angeles, Calif.: (Through Dr. Olga Hartman) sea pen and 2 vials of sponges (227012).
Southern Cypress Manufacturers Association, Jacksonville, Fla.: (Through James A. Prestridge) 4 boards of Southern cypress and 2 boards of pecky cypress (251651).
Southern Hardwood Producers, Inc., Memphis, Tenn.: (Through George C. Romeiser) 2 yellow cypress boards (252874).
Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Ill.: (Through Donald A. Lawrence) 25 caterpillars from Illinois (253517).
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Tex.: Grass from Texas (251429).
Southern Pine Association, New Orleans, La.: (Through Stanley P. Deas) 2 boards each of long-leaf pine and southern pine and 4 boards of southern yellow pine (251649).
Southern Rhodesia, Government of: 14 mint stamps of Southern Rhodesia (253858).
Southwestern Louisiana, University of, Lafayette, La.: (Through Dr. William D. Reese) 50 ecryptogams and 42 mosses from Louisiana (248912, 250345, exchanges); (through Dr. John W. Thieret) 60 phanerogams and 7 grasses from Louisiana (248889).
Spalding, Albert C., Washington, D.C.: Early 20th-century luncheon cloth (252369).
Spangler, Dr. Paul J., Washington, D.C.: 7,811 water beetles from North America and 505 caddis flies from the U.S. (252170, 253510); 3,018 miscellaneous insects from Plummers Island, Md. (253924).
Speer, Mrs. E. M., Highland Falls, N.Y.: (Through Maj. Gen. W. H. Nutter) Acme motion-picture projector (249405).

<<<Page: 213>>>

Spencer, Lincoln S. (deceased) : (Through Robert 8S. Spencer) Thompson steam-engine indicator, ca. 1904, and Willis planimeter (253403).
Spencer, Robert S. (See Spencer, Lincoln S.)
Spencer, William, North Plainfield, N.J.: Todorokite with several associated minerals from Sterling Hill, N.J. (248707).
Sperry Rand Corp., Gainesville, Fla.: (Through W. L. Vergason) cutaway model of Klystron 410-R electronic tube (250987).
Speyer, E. R. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Spilman, T. J., Washington, D.C.: 26 springtails from Pennsylvania (253508).
Spinner, Alfred D., Silver Spring, Md.: Wood block from India, late 19th century (251657).
Spitzer, Dr. Lyman, Jr. (See Atomic Energy Commission )
Sprague, Dr. Charles (See Pierson, Mrs. J. O.)
Springer, Dr. Victor G. (See Francois, Dr. Donald D.)
Springer Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 1,023 blastoids and crinoids from Iowa and Missouri (250054).
Spurlock, Edward J. (See Wernett, Cpl. Lemont)
Squires, Dr. Donald F. (See Ballent, Joseph E.; and Woods Hole (Oceanographic Institution)
Staatliches Museum fiir Naturkunde in Stuttgart-Zweigstelle, Ludwigsburg, Germany: (Through Friedrich Heller) 202 leafhoppers from Hurope (253501).
Staatsinstitut fir Allgemeine Botanik und Botanischer Garten, Hamburg, Germany : 98 ferns from New Zealand (249977, exchange).
Stack, Benjamin, New York, N.Y.: 35 silver coins from the Low Countries, 12th and 16th centuries, and 5 counters from England (252825); 138 German documents of numismatic interest, early 16th and 17th centuries (2538850) ; specimen printings of Austro-Bohemian obligations, 1763 (258775).
Stack, Harvey G., New York, N.Y.: 1,899 necessity mintings issued in France, Monaco, and the French colonies, 1914-26 (247660) ; 2 English silver medals, 17th century (2511638); 5 ancient Roman silver and bronze coins (251166) ; 2 rare pattern 40-reis pieces of Brazil, 1889 (251179) ; 5 early English promissory notes drawn by. or paid to the Bank House of Francis Child (252085) ; 2 silver medals of the 16th and 18th centuries and a medieval lead bulla of Messina (252095).
Stack, Joseph B., New York, N.Y.: 13 ancient Greek, Gaulish, and Ostrogothic silver coins (251171, 251185) ; 9 medieval groats of Bulgaria, Ragusa, and Serbia (252069); original parchment bond bound in velvet concerning an 11,127,000-pound loan to Uruguay, 1883 (252098).
Stack, Morton, New York, N.Y.: Ancient silver denarius struck in the Baetica (251153) ; silver medallion (251154) ; 2 ancient coins of Metapontum and Julius Caesar, respectively (251158) ; 3 Renaissance medals and a copy of a lead bulla of Pope Paul II, 1464-71 (251172) ; 2 Hudson Bay Co. notes, 1821, and a Banque de Quebec note, 1837 (252094).
Stack, Norman, New York, N.Y.: Tetradrachm struck at Alabanda, 2nd century B.C. (251159); 5 English historical silver medals (251167) ; George Washington gilt bronze medal, modeled after Gilbert Stuart’s portrait (251176) ; 3 modern bronze medals of France and the Netherlands (251181); 9 ancient Greek bronze coins from Sicily (251182) ; 20 European medieval coins, 9th-16th centuries (252091).
Stack’s, New York, N.Y.: Silver medallion commemorating the embarkation of Charles II at Scheviningen, 1660 (251162) ; 13 ancient Greek bronze eoins (251164) ; 17 Italian and Spanish medieval coins, 9th-17th centuries (251168) ; 48 European medieval silver eoins (251170, 252088) ; 19 French medieval coins in silver, 10th—16th centuries (251174); daguerreotype portraying John Little Moffat (251177); 5 steel

<<<Page: 214>>>

and copper dies with portraits of William Penn and Presidents George Washington and Abraham Lincoln (251178) ; 6 tintypes portraying the Bechtler family (252070) ; notebook with entries by U.S. Mint Engraver J. B. Longacre concerning the design of the 1856 flyingeagle cent (252082) ; 28 medieval and modern silver coins (252086) ; 3 ancient Greek silver coins and 6 German medieval silver coins (252087) ; high relief $20.00 and $10.00 goldpieces, 1907, and personal notes concerning their history (252089).
Stanford University, Stanford, Calif. : 61 phanerogams, 41 grasses, and 17 ferns from western North America (252840, exchange) ; (through Dr. Walter C. Brown) 7 frogs, including a paratype, and lizards from the Philippines (248222).
Stanley, Betsy, Silver Spring, Md.: 20 marine mollusks from Hyannis Port, Mass. (250786).
Stansfield, Mrs. George, Alexandria, Va.: Phenix steam atomizer, ca. 1900 (249414).
Starck, Walter A., II (See Institute of Marine Science)
Staton, Mrs. Robert, Falls Church, Va.: Pair of black-suede shoes, ca. 1960 (251954).
Steadman, Peter, Aitutaki, Islands: Spider crab, 249017).
Stearns, Dr. Harold T., Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii: 3 marine mollusks from off Lahaina, Maui (253238).
Stearns, J. L. (See Insular Lumber Sales Corp.)
Steeves, Dr. Harrison R., III (See Alabama, University of)
Steffan, M. J. R., Paris, France: 30 chalcid flies from Europe (249229, exchange).
Stellmack, John A., State College, Pa.: 3 crayfishes, paratypes (248622).
Stem, Chester B. (See Chester B. Stem, Inc.)
Stentz, Carl E., Newport Beach, Calif.: Epidote from California and barite from Sterling, Colo. (252533, exchange).
Cook
Stephenson, Larry, Victorville, Calif. : 3 true bugs from the U.S. (251599).
Stern, Dr. William L., Washington, D.C.: Miscellaneous arthropods from the Philippines (253911).
. Sternal, Mrs. John, Flint, Mich.: Set of picture blocks (252200).
Stevens, Mrs. Mary Langhorne Cloyd, Radford, Va.: 6 items of costume, 19th century (253267).
Stevenson, Mrs. Bernice (See Missouri Numismatic Society )
Stevenson, George B., Tavernier, Fla.: Phanerogam from Florida (252467).
Stevenson, Harry, Wittenoon, West Australia: 49 riebeckite specimens from Australia (252818).
Stevenson, Dr. Henry M. (See Florida State University )
Stewart, Dr. Harris B., Jr. Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Stewart, Prof. John W. (See Virginia, University of)
Stewart, Lorna M., Washington, D.C. : 2 pencils relating to the American campaign for women’s suffrage (251191).
Stewart, Dr. T. Dale, Washington, D.C.: Political novelty (253356).
Steyermark, Dr. Julian A. (See Venezuela, Government of; and Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria)
Steyskal, George, Washington, D.C.: 65 flies from Michigan (249064, 253516) ; 33 cuckoo wasps from North America (249250).
Stickney, Mrs. Benjamin R., and Stickney, Benjamin R., Jr., Annandale, Va.: Original patent papers from the web intaglio-printing presses; a letter from Andrew Mellon; 170 foreign and domestic unused postage, revenue, and specimen stamps; and a die proof of the one-peso postage stamp of Mexico (250470).
Stickney, Benjamin R., Jr. (See Stickney, Mrs. Benjamin R.)
Stock, Dr. J. H. (See Amsterdam, University of ; and Zoologisch Museum)
Stockwell, David (See Plowden, Mrs. Philip)
Stomber, Brother Michael, C. P. (See Clarey, John)
(See

<<<Page: 215>>>

Stone, Dr. Alan (See Goodwin, Dr. W. J.)
Stermer, Dr. Per (See Universitetets Botaniske Museum)
Straka, Jerome A., New York, N.Y.: Ferahan carpet (25193838).
Strauss, Mrs. Lewis L., Washington, D.C. : 58 pieces of lace, embroidery, and crochet, 18th-20th centuries, from the collection of her mother, Mrs. Jerome J. Hanauer (2536338).
Straw, Richard, Mirafiores, Lima, Peru: 206 miscellaneous insects from South America (253146).
Strayan, H. L. G. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Strelak, Joseph (deceased) : 34 firstday wrappers and aerogrammes (253844).
Strong, William A., Cleveland, Ohio: 2 fishing reels, ca. 1920-30 (250925).
Strowger, E. B. (See Niagara Mohawk Power Corp.; and Westinghouse Hlectric Corp.)
Struhsaker, Paul J. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Stubbs, Mrs. John O. (See Chilton Club)
Sudlow, W. R. (See Texas Instruments, Inc.)
Sullivan, Mrs. Jean M., Willoughby, Ohio: Doll (248876).
Surber, Eugene W., Browntown, Va.: 8 amphipods from Ohio (252645).
Suroff, Leonard W. (See Cavitron Ultrasonics, Inc.)
Sutherland, Mrs. W. A., Washington, D.C.: 28 pieces of porcelain from HEngland, 18th-19th centuries (250974).
Suttkus, Dr. Royal (See Tulane University )
Swanson, Dr. Leonard E., Gainesville, Fla.: 3 parasitic helminth worms (248542) ; fluke from Amazonian freshwater porpoise of Homosassa Springs, Fla. (250108).
Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stockholm, Sweden: 500 ecryptogams from Scandinavia (249222, exchange).
Sweeney, Dr. W. T. (See Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Swensen, Mrs. Jean H., New York, N.Y.: Lithograph, Fishing in Bermuda, by donor (249404).
Switzer, James R., Washington, D.C.: Skull of an extinct whalebone whale (249653).
Syracuse University, Syracuse, N.Y.: State University of Forestry: 24 grasses from Colorado (253805).
Syz, Dr. Hans, Westport, Conn.: 36 pieces of porcelain, 18th century (250446, 251652).
Szancer, Dr. H., Flushing, N.Y.: 14 Polish Army postage stamps and souvenir sheet, and 69 U.S. and Canadian commemorative covers (253838).
Taber, Thomas T., Madison, N.J.: 3 railroad signals, 1880-1905 (254109).
Taber, Mrs. Thomas T., Madison, N.J.: Lace collar and 2 shawls (248248).
Tagawa, Dr. M. (See Kyoto, University of)
Tagliabue, Marco, Brescia, Italy: 3 marine mollusks and a fossil mollusk from Italy (254049).
Talbot, Dr. Frank H. (See South African Museum)
Taliaferro, Hallie L., Rock Springs, Wyo.: Woman’s corset, quilted petticoat, and a pair of slippers, 18th century (251939).
Talmadge, Robert R., Willow Creek,
Calif.: 10 mollusks from California (241205). Talnadge, S., Chula Vista, Calif.:
Cultivated fern (253231).
Talpey, Thomas E., Basking Ridge, N.J.: 5 phanerogams from Puerto Rico (250555).
Tariff Commission, U.S., Washington, D.C.: (Through Kenneth R. Mason and Alvin Z. Macomber) 10 U.S. franked envelopes (253876).
Tasker, Dr. Roy C. (See Bucknell University )
Tate, John F. P., Roanoke, Va.: Watch (249860). Tateoka, Dr. Tuguo, Yokohama,
Japan: 20 grasses from the Philippines (252163).
Tavares, Dr. Sérgio, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil: 48 phanerogams and grass from Brazil (248247).

<<<Page: 216>>>

Taylor, Dr. Dwight W. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the; and Croizat, Dr. Leon)
Taylor, Lt. Ernest, Fort Lee, Va.: (Through Sidney D. Haas) 38 distinetive insignia (251468).
Taylor, Frank A., Washington, D.C.: Henry Ford Centennial bronze medal, 1963, engraved by Ralph Menconi (252092). (See also Kramer, Wilhelm)
Taylor, Col. Glenn R. (See Missouri School of Mines and Metallurgy)
Taylor, J. L. (See Florida, University of)
Taylor, Dr. J. S., Wilderness, Cape Province, South Africa: 19 bees and wasps from South Africa (249619).
Taylor, James B., Salisbury, N.C.: 20
minerals from Rowan Co. N.C. (253770). Taylor, Prentiss (See Society of
Washington Printmakers)
Taylor, Dr. Richard J., Wichita, Kans.: Approximately 5,000 mollusks, Tertiary of the Maryland-Virginia area (250412) ; (through Henry B. Roberts) approximately 150 fossil decapods and bone fragments, Miocene and Pleistocene of Maryland (248721).
Techno Instrument Co., Los Angeles, Calif.: (Through V. H. Nafius) TI-551la recorder-reproducer (252299).
Tedeschi, Franco (See Associazione Hlettrotecnica ed Hlettronica Italiana)
Teixeira, Lucy M., Washington, D.C.: Hge beater, 1891 (248729).
Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel: (Through Dr. Margalit Galun) 7 lichens from Israel (253816, exchange).
Telford, Dr. Allan D., Albany, Calif. : 2 euckoo wasps from North America (249056).
Telonicher, Dr. Fred (See Humboldt State College)
Temple, Col. Harry D. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Tennessee, State of: Department of Conservation: (Through Dr. Robert C. Milici) 24 fresh-water and land mollusks from the Tennessee River (223786). Department of Public Health: (Through Dr. Ralph M. Sinclair) 17 mollusks from the Tennessee
River (248192).
Tennessee, University of, Knoxville, Tenn.: (Through Dr. A. J. Sharp) 20 lichens from Tennessee (248240).
Territory of Papua and New Guinea: Department of Forests: (Through Dr. J. S. Womersley) 75 phanerogams, 7 grasses, 6 ferns, and 4 cryptogams from New Guinea (252843, exchange).
Texas, State of: Game and Fish Commission: (Through Hrnest G. Simmons) leech (248355).
Texas, University of, Austin, Tex. : 92 phanerogams (249325, 249535, exchange). Institute of Marine Science: Port Aransas: (Through Dr. J. C. Briggs) 6 sharks from Port Aransas (249121); (through H. D. Hoese) 3 fishes from Port Aransas (249518).
Texas A&M University, College Station, Tex.: 2 grasses from Mexico (253050).
Texas Instruments, Inc., Houston, Tex.: (Through W. R. Sudlow) explorer seismic amplifier (252298).
Texas Research Foundation, Renner, Tex.: 468 phanerogams and 55 ferns from Central America and Mexico (251263, 253815, exchange) ; 989 photographs of phanerogams (252466, exchange).
Texas Speleological Survey, Austin, Tex.: (Through James Reddell) 57 isopods from Texas and Mexico and 6 erayfishes from Mexico (249795, 251707, 252579).
Thatcher, Franklin L., Alexandria,
Va.: Gordon style, treadle-operated platen jobbing press, 19th century (253742).
Thieret, Dr. John W., Lafayette, La.: 81 phanerogams, 15 grasses, and a fern from Louisiana (251712). (See also Southwestern Louisiana, University of)
Thomas, L. Kay (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Thomas, Lowell (See Miami, University of)
Thompson, Fred G., Coral Gables, Fla.: Paratype of a new genus and species of mollusk from Costa Rica (251729).

<<<Page: 217>>>

Thompson, John R. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Thompson, Mrs. Libbie Moody, Galveston, Tex.: Rare vase from China (251761).
Thompson, Mrs. Ralph, Washington, D.C.: Dress and costume accessories, 1906, a set of leather-working tools, and a plumb line (248147).
Thompson, Robert (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Thomsen, Mrs. C. N., Takoma Park, Md.: (Through Roy Hendricks) 19 hand tools (253645).
Thomson, George H. (See Royal College of Science and Technology)
Thomson, Dr. John W. (See Wisconsin, University of)
Thomssen, R., Salt Lake City, Utah: 3 minerals from Arizona and Colorado (252288).
Thorne, Dr. Robert F. (See Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden)
Thornton, Dr. Wilmot A., Durango, Colo.: 855 mammals from Colombia (245531).
Tinker, Spencer (See Bermuda, Government of)
Tippy, R. R., Oak Ridge, Tenn.: 79 pieces of coal-field scrip from Tennessee, Kentucky, Alabama, and _ Virginia (252179).
Tipton, Maj. Vernon J. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Titschack, Prof. E., Hamburg, Germany: 25 thrips, including paratypes, from Germany and Spain (247297, exchange).
Titterington, Dr. P. F., St. Louis, Mo.: Maxillary fragment from Vera Cruz, Mexico (252464).
Todd, Dr. Ruth (See Interior, U.S. Department of the; and Woszidlo, Dr. H.)
Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan: (Through Dr. Kenji Atoda) 5 sea anemones (248741); (through Dr. Kankichi Sohma) 4 microscope slides of pollen (2512738, exchange).
Token and Medal Society (See Capitol Medals, Inc.; and Chapel Hill Medals, Inc.)
Tokyo, University of, Tokyo, Japan: Department of Botany: (Through Dr. Yong No Lee) grass from Japan (251276). Makino Herbarium: 107 phanerogams, 9 grasses, and 4 ferns from Japan (251713, exchange).
Tonge, D. R., Bencubbin, West Australia: Riebeckite from Wittenoon, West Australia (252817).
Torrence, Jane Paull, Living descendants of: (Through Mrs. Allen Davison) all-white quilted counterpane, CivilWar period (254071).
Tortonese, Dr. Enrico (See Museo Civico di Storia Naturale ‘Giacomo Doria’)
Toth, Jess (See Harry W. Dietert Co.)
Townsend, C. C., Twickenham, Middlesex, England: 100 cryptogams from Hurope (251267, exchange).
Tramm, Alvin P. (See Columbia University )
Trapp, Francis W., Falls Church, Va.: Aragonite from Montgomery Co., Md.
(252285); prehnite with apophyllite from Centreville, Va. (258702, exchange).
Traub, Col. Robert (See Defense, U.S. Department of ; and Maryland, University of)
Treasury, U.S. Department of the, Washington, D.C.: (Through General Services Administration, Region 3) HyScore air pistol, caliber .177 (252781). Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division: (Through C. D. Norman) machine gun with tripod and mount, Marlin Model 1906 (251375). Bureau of the Mint: 32 coins of regular domestic coinage, 1964 (25386388); 62 coins and medals (252327). Bureau of Engraving and Printing: (Through Henry J. Holtzclaw) 251 certified plate proofs of U.S. postage stamps (252182); Stickney rotary printing press, coiling machine, coil-measuring table, 2 postage-stamp rolls, 2 Stickney-press pla'tes, stamp die, 2 stamp rolls, and 27 glass transparencies showing steps in manufacture of a U.S. 5-cent stamp (2538538). U.S. Coast Guard: Steam Whistle (245171) ; clock recovered from the wreck of

<<<Page: 218>>>

Vineyard Lightship (250951)); chronometer from the cutter Hudson (253534) ; bronze copy of the galvano of Alexander Hamilton commemorative medal (253535) ; oil painting of the U.S. Revenue Cutter Massachusetts by Hunter Wood and replica of seal of the U.S. Treasury Department (2535387) ; 7 U.S. Coast Guard medals and ribbons (2535388) ; U.S. Coast Guard beach cart with accessories (254062) ; 2 oil-burning post lanterns used to mark the entrance channel of the Kasilof River in Alaska (254067). Bureau of Customs: 2 strands of opal beads (248458) ; 90 gems and minerals from Brazil (249046) ; 10 rings with cut stones, a gold bracelet watch, and a diamond (249442, 250044) ; brooch, ring, platinum and diamond (249446); 18 French, German, Italian, and Spanish firearms and an Italian switchblade knife (249542, 249543); 378 pieces of jewelry, a star sapphire, and 21 uneut diamonds (250051, 250403, 250957, 250962, 252268, 252265, 252266) ; 2 Czech submachine guns, 2 web canvas ammunition carriers, and 4 clip magazines (250539) ; diamond brooch, emerald and diamond ring, and a gold bracelet (250956) ; 22 jade specimens (251085, 252264); Beretta automatic pistol (251467) ; 401 strands of colored pearls and an opal and gold ring 251805); 109 cut emeralds, approximately 309 carats (251915) ; Iver Johnson hammerless revolver and a Smith & Wesson revolver, Russian model (252233) ; 1,103 minerals from Brazil and Mexico (252267) ; partially smelted ores of tungsten, nickel, cobalt, silver, and platinum (252814). Internal Revenue service: 3 automatic firearms (253619) ; (through Dwight E. Avis) 5,772 counterfeit bottled-in-bond strip stamps in 481 full sheets (253354) ; (through Mortimer M. Caplin) 41,880 unused U.S. Internal Revenue Stock Transfer stamps of new design (249258) ; 90,000 Rectification Tax stamps, series of 1946, and 15,000 order forms for marihuana, revised, series of 19387 (252080) ; 5,200 Internal Revenue
machine
10-cent documentary commemorative stamps, 1962 (252033, 258839) ; (through H. S8. Caplinger) Belgian “Tuckaway’’ double-barrel shot pistol (250791) ; (through Oscar Neal) Astra pistol, 9 mm. (251790) ; (through Paul D. Younce) 9 automatic weapons, pre-1917 (252390). U.S. Secret Service: (Through James J. Rowley) Graflex fingerprint camera and accessories (253500).
Trembly, Royal H., Hyattsville, Md.: Overshot coverlet, 19th century (251666).
Trenham, Mrs. Byrd, Washington, D.C.: Edison mimeograph stencil press, lantern-slide projector, and a miscellaneous group of leather-working tools (251658) .
Trinidad Regional Virus Laberatory, Port of Spain, Trinidad: (Through Dr. T. H. G. Aitken) 56 flies and 500 larvae, holotypes and paratypes, from Trinidad (251224).
Triplehorn, Dr. Charles A., Columbus, Ohio: 22 beetles from North America (253918).
Tryon, Dr. Rolla M. (See Harvard University )
Tucker, Prof. John A. (See Massachusetts Institute of Technology)
Tulane University, New Orleans, La. : (Through Dr. Milton Fingerman) 3 ocypodid crabs (250253) ; (through Dr. Gerald E. Gunning) 5 fresh-water bivalve mussels (253019) ; (through Dr. Alfred E. Smalley) stomatopod from the Gulf of Mexico (250823) ; (through Dr. Franklin Sogandares) 4 flies from North America, including holotype and 3 paratypes (252374); (through Dr. Royal D. Suttkus) 48 fishes (215988, 250219, exchanges) ; (through Harold EB. Vokes) 5 fresh-water mollusks from Canada (249379, exchange).
Tulsa, University of, Tulsa, Okla.: (Through Dr. Albert P. Blair) 62 crayfishes (247445, 248097).
Turtle Mountain Jewel Bearing Plant, Rolla, N. Dak.: (Through Duane KF. Crosby) capped-jewel model and plate-jewel model (249639).

<<<Page: 219>>>

Tyler, Mrs. John Paul (See Sanders, Rev. C. 8.)
Tyler, Richard O. Press)
Tyree, Rear Adm. David M., USN, Port Haywood, Va.: (Through Rear Adm. William Rea Furlong, USN, Ret.) U.S. National flag flown at South Pole in 1961 and colored photograph (253616).
Uchida, Dr. Tohru (See Emperor of Japan)
Ulmer, Dr. Frederick A., Jr. (See Philadelphia Zoological Garden)
Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.: (Through Prof. H. Gilbert Harlow) G. Coradi polar planimeter, 1888 (252804).
United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, Washington, D.C.: (Through Harold A. Vogel) 1,610 miscellaneous mint foreign postage stamps (246753).
United Nations Postal Administration, United Nations, N.Y.: (Through D. Thomas Clements) 100 5and 11-cent General Assembly stamps (252028) ; 480 mint stamps and postal stationery of the United Nations (253860).
United States Lines Co., New York, N.Y.: (Through Richard L. Harris) model of SS American Challenger (254118).
Universidad Central de Venezuela, Maracay, Edo. Aragua, Venezuela: 109 grasses from Venezuela (250890).
Universidad de los Andes, Mérida, Venezuela: (Through Sr. Harry Corothie) 55 microscope slides of woods (245827, exchange); (through Prof. Luis Ruiz-Teran) 7 mounted sheets of phanerogams from Venezuela (250752).
Universidad Nacional Autonoma de México, México, D.F.: (Through Prof. Maximino Martinez) 2 phanerogams, type (250313).
Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata, Argentina: 5 photographs of phanerogam types (2538021, exchange) ; (through Dr. Analia Amor) 2 sipunculids from Argentina (251902) ; (through Dr. Luis De Santis) 5 mounted thrips from Argentina and Peru (250604, exchange).
(See Uranian
Universidad Nacional de Trujillo, Trujillo, Peru: 47 phanerogams and 13 grasses from Peru (235906, 247590, 251724, 252775).
Universidad Nacional de Tucuman, Tucuman, Argentina: (Through Dr. Abraham Willink) 4 paratypes of wasps (250601). Instituto Miguel Lillo: (Through Dr. W. Weyrauch) 39 land snails from Argentina (250040).
Universidade de Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil: (Through Dr. J. Mure¢a Pires) 209 phanerogams and 20 grasses from Brazil (249188).
Universidade do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil: (Through Dr. Darcy Closs) 60 marine mollusks from Argentina. and Brazil (2494384, exchange).
Université de Paris, Paris, France: (Through Dr. Daniel Pajaud) 12 brachiopods from the Jurassic of England and France (251873, exchange).
Universitetets Botaniske Museum, Oslo, Norway: (Through Dr. Rolf Berg) 18 fragments of ferns (219781) ; (through Dr. Per St¢rmer) 305 bryophytes from Norway (252844, exchange).
University of the West Indies, Kingston, Jamaica: (Through Dr. Ivan M. Goodbody) 20 shrimps, 5 porcellanids, 15 erabs, and 2 sea anemones from the West Indies (237511, 242062).
University School of Forestry, Brno, Czechoslovakia: Botanical Institute: (Through Dr. Antonin Vezda) 25 lichens (252838, exchange).
Uniwersytetu Wroclawskiego, Wroclaw, Poland: (Through W. J. Pulawski) 1380 identified European wasps (250084).
Unknown: 5 pieces of modern foreign paper currency (252560).
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden: 60 lichens (249814, exchange) ; (through Dr. Rolf Santesson) 88 lichens from Hurope (253229, exchange).
Upton, Mrs. Frank M., Boulder, Colo. : Leather loose-leaf book containing color photographs of decorations and medals awarded to donor’s late husband (254064).

<<<Page: 220>>>

Uranian Press, New York, N.Y.: (Through Richard O. Tyler) 22 illustrated publications of the Uranian Press (250976).
Utah, University of, Salt Lake City,
Utah: (Through Dr. Lewis T. Nielsen) |.
110 mosquitoes from North America (250294, exchange).
Utah National Guard, Salt Lake City, Utah: (Through Sidney D. Haas) 5 distinctive insignia of the Utah National Guard (250948).
Utah State University, Logan, Utah: 11 grasses from Utah (250819); (through Dr. Arthur H. Holmgren) fern from Utah (254016).
V. Ottilio & Sons, Paterson, N.J.: Mack truck (251010).
Valdosta State College, Valdosta, Ga.: (Through Juanita Norsworthy) 26 ferns from Georgia (250880, 251679).
Valentine, E.W. (See New Zealand, Government of)
Van Cleef & Arpels, Inc., New York, N.Y.: (Through Claude Arpels) 1 blue and 3 green diamonds (253749).
Vancouver Public Aquarium, Vancouver, B.C.: (Through Dr. Murray A. Newman) head, vertebrae, and fins of basking shark (243109).
Vanden, George W., Jessup, Md.: World War II Japanese field telephone and telegraph (252174).
VandenBerge, Peter N. ner A. Sage Library)
Van den Bold, Dr. W. A., Baton Rouge, La.: 28 ostracodes, type, from the Miocene and Pliocene of Trinidad (251764) .
Vanderpoel, John A., Seattle, Wash. : (Through Charles H. Wuerz, Jr.) 12 postage stamps of Siam (248947).
van der Starre, Walter, Victoria, Australia: 34 scarab beetles from Australia (252849, exchange).
van der Vecht, Dr. J. (See Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie)
Van Dyke, Mrs. Henry, St. Petersburg, Fla.: 122 Haitian philatelic items (252084).
Van Lint, Mr. and Mrs. Victor J., Riverside, Calif.: Collection of postage stamps, one-quarter interest (251697).
(See Gard-
Van Nierop, Johanna, Washington, D.C.: Batik, 20th century, and lace flounce, 18th century (253634).
Vanzolini, Dr. P. E. (See Departmento de Zoologia)
Vargas, Dr. Luis, Mexico, D.F.: (Through Ralph A. Bram) 6 mosquitoes (2538611).
Vargas C., Dr. César, Cuzco, Peru: 64 phanerogams from Peru (251999, 253811).
Vasié, Dr. Zivomir (See Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle)
Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Sarah Gibson Blanding) astronomical telescope (248757).
Vaz-Ferreira, Dr. Raul (See Montevideo, University of)
Veach, John B. (See Hardwood Corporation of America)
Veazie, Rosalind, Hood River, Oreg.: Marcasite from Montana (252722).
Veber, Rose, Washington, D.C.: 12 Asian ethnological items (246147).
Venezuela, Government of, Caracas, Venezuela: Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria: (Through Dr. Julian A. Steyermark) 3 phanerogams (245484).
Vergason, W. L. (See Sperry Rand Corp. )
Vezda, Dr. Antonin (See University School of Forestry)
Victoria University, Wellington, New Zealand: (Through Dr. H. B. Fell) 6 starfishes (248618) ; (through Dr. Patricia M. Ralph) coral (250893).
Vines, Dr. Robert A., Houston, Tex.: Phanerogam from Texas (249196).
Vinson, William E., Falls Church, Va.: Bird skin (252342).
Virginia, University of, Charlottes-
ville, Va.: (Through Joseph Fitzpatrick, Jr.) 2 shrimps and a erab (246664) ; (through Dr. Kenneth R. Lawless) gasometer (251007);
(through Dr. Richard 8. Mitchell) 17 minerals from Virginia (248135, 250448, exchanges) ; (through Prof. John W. Stewart) 24 pieces of physical apparatus and 34 electrical pieces (251562).
Virginia Institute of Marine Science, Gloucester Point, Va.: (Through John

<<<Page: 221>>>

210 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM C. McCain) 72 eaprellids from Virginia and 7 sea anemones (248528, 250755) ; (through Dr. Marvin L. Wass) 20 amphipods, a crab, paratype, and sea anemone (244603, 249841).
Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Va.: (Through Dr. Perry C. Holt) 12 specimens and 2 slides of oligochaete worms, holotypes and paratypes (249370, 250682) ; (through Prof. H. P. Marshall) Westinghouse compound steam engine and Ball generating steam engine, 1896 (249412) ; (through Prof. A. B. Massey) cultivated fern and phanerogam (249478, 250346) ; (through Dr. Robert Ross) 6,001 fishes from Virginia (250218).
Voeller, Dr. Bruce R. (See Rockefeller Institute)
Vogel, Harold A. (See United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization)
Vokes, Dr. Harold E. (See Tulane University )
Volborth, Dr. A., Reno, Nev.: 16 rock samples on which X-ray gravimetric analysis and neutron activation measurement for oxygen have been done (252269) pollucite from Finland (252274).
von Huhn, Rudolf, Washington, D.C.: Color linoleum cut, Ravenna II, by donor (253626).
von Selzam, Edward, Oconomowoc, Wis.: 12 pairs of earrings (248384).
Voous, Dr. K. H. (See Zodlogisch Museum)
Voss, Gilbert L. (See Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission)
Vuorelainen, Y., Outokumpu, TFinland: Uvarovite from Outokumpu (25384738, exchange).
Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Ind. : (Through Dr. Robert L. Henry) 13 items of electrical and physical-science equipment (249201).
Waddill, G. W., Fort Sumner, N. Mex. : 4 quartz specimens from New Mexico (252280).
Wadsworth, Mrs. Julius, Washington, D.C.: Woman’s coat and 8 pairs of shoes, 1924-25 (253051).
Wagenitz, Dr. G. Garten und Museum)
(See Botanischer
Waggoner, Prof. William H. (See Georgia, University of) Wagner, Dr. Warren H., Jr. (See
Michigan, University of)
Wain, Harry C., Somers, Conn.: Calcite from Bancroft, Ontario, Canada (252282).
Wainwright, Dr. Stephen A. (See Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)
Wake Forest College, Winston-Salem, N.C.: (Through Dr. Robert P. Higgins) 10 marine invertebrates (250895).
Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 20,000 invertebrate fossils from the Jurassic and Cretaceous of central Saudi Arabia collected by Drs. Porter M. Kier and H. G. Kauffman, David Redman, Hal McClure, and Brock Powers, 1962 (248375) ; approximately 20,000 fossils from the Jurassic of Chile (248919) ; 60 echinoids and mollusks from the Miocene near Cape Fear, 8.C., collected by Drs. Porter M. Kier and Druid Wilson, 1962 (250056); 2,000 Lower Devonian plant remains from Canada (252345); 20 trilobites and sponges from the Middle Cambrian of Utah, and crinoids from the Triassic (252440) ; 300 blocks of limestone containing approximately 3,000 to 4,000 silicified specimens, and 1,000 fossil invertebrates from the Upper Cretaceous of Puerto Rico collected by Dr. Erle G. Kauffman and Norman F. Sohl, 1964 (252521) ; 10 graptolite specimens from the Ordovician of Utah (252695) ; 370 vertebrate and invertebrate fossils from various localities collected by Dr. David H. Dunkle and Gladwyn B. Sullivan, 1963 (254025) ; 50 fossil specimens from presumed Oligocene rocks in southeastern Iran, collected by Charles and Virginia Capen (254221).
Waldron, Capt. Robert (See Slater, John C.)
Walker, Dr. Thomas J., Jr., Gainsville, Fla.: (Through Dr. Ashley B. Gurney) 2 katydids from Florida (251245, exchange).
Walkom, Dr. A. B. Government of)
(See Australia,

<<<Page: 222>>>

Wallace, David H., Philadelphia, Pa.: Glass plate bearing frosted likeness of President James A. Garfield (248735).
Walter, Dr. Waldemar M., Denton, Tex.: 160 fresh-water snails from Denton (235144).
Waltham, City of, Mass.: (Through Martin Mekkelsen) Worthington pumping engine name plate, 1873 (250504).
Wang, Dr. Yu Hsi Moltze, Taipei, Taiwan, China: 9 centipedes from Taiwan (250594).
Wanke, Dr. H. (See Max-Planck Institut fiir Chemie)
Ward, Prof. Gray (See Redlands, University of)
Ward, L. W., Richmond, Va.: Fossil crab from White Oak Lodge, Hampton Co., Va. (247110) ; 6 new species of fossil crab from the Tertiary of Virginia (251028).
Warmke, Mrs. Germaine L., Gainesville, Fla.: 625 marine mollusks from Aruba, Netherlands Antilles and Puerto Rico (252869). (See also Puerto Rico, University of)
Warner, A. R. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Warren, Edward, New Bern, N.C.: 52 pieces of stone and ceramic material from Craven Co., N.C. (250942).
Warren, Richard D., Gainesville, Fla. : 4 crayfishes (249118).
Washburn, Dr. Wilcomb E., Washington, D.C.: 4 U.S. and foreign covers (258838).
Washington, University of, Seattle, Wash.: (Through Dr. William Aron) 32 shrimps and an isopod (2384672) ; (through Dr. Robert L. Fernald) 3 polychaete worms (248144).
Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.: (Through Dr. Hampton L. Carson) 2 land crabs from Montserrat, B.W.I. (251948).
Wass, Dr. Marvin L. (See Virginia Institute of Marine Science)
Waters, Earle C., Jr., Geneva, N.Y.: (Through Charles H. Wuerz, Jr.) 12 miscellaneous postage stamps of Siam (249400).
Waters, John W. (See Waters, Samuel 8S.)
Waters, Samuel S., Estate of: (Through John W. Waters) Otto gas engine, ca. 1910 (252800).
_ Watkins, Mrs. Charles H., Middleton, Mass.: 2 hooks (248937).
Watson, Dr. George E., Washington, D.C.: Bird skeleton (253932).
Watson, Dr. George H., Sturbridge, Mass.: 1884 political campaign broadside (249266) ; Blain and Logan politieal campaign handkerchief (252395) ; early pod auger bit and 19th-century Oilean (252894, 253248).
Watts, Gertrude, Duluth, Minn. : Pair of shoe buckles, 1796-1809 (250363).
Waud, Morrison, Chicago, Ill.: 501 U.S. newspaper stamps, proofs, forgeries, and essays, and 669 pieces of U.S. stamped revenue paper, documents, checks bearing revenue stamps, bonds, tickets, and related items (251189).
Wayne Pump Co., Salisbury, Md.: (Through W. O. Howland) kerosene unit, ca. 1890 (253940).
Weaver, Clifton S., Lanikai, Kailua, Hawaii: 2 marine mollusks from the Marquesas and South Africa (248070).
Weber, Jay A., Miami, Fla.: Mollusk and slide of its radula from New Providence, Bahamas (252001).
Weber, Dr. William A. (See Colorado, University of)
Webster, J. B., Kinkirkintilloch, Scotland: (Through Mrs. D, A. MacVean) 7 iron nails of various sizes (249359) .
Webster, Mrs. Natalie P. (See Peters, Harry 0. dir)
Wedgwood, Sir John Hamilton (See Josiah Wedgwood & Sons, Ltd.)
Weeks, Frances Washington, Washington, D.C., and Weeks, Nancy Hunter (deceased): 2 plates from President Madison’s state service and 2 from General Barnes’ china (254074).
Weeks, Nancy Hunter (See Weeks, Frances Washington)
Weems, Dr. H. V., Gainesville, Fla.: 68 centipedes from Florida (253083).

<<<Page: 223>>>

Weems, Capt. Philip V. H., (Ret.), Annapolis, Md.: Weems Memorial Library on navigation and nautical astronomy, and an associated collection of 48 navigation instruments (242229).
Weems, Robert E., Ashland, Va.: Portions of 5 primitive whalebone whales and a pinniped from Westmoreland and King William Cos. Va. (251768).
Weill, Victor H., Washington, D.C.: 167 U.S. canceled postage stamps, mint foreign postage stamps, and foreign covers (253846).
Weiss, Helena M. (See Smithsonian Institution )
Weiss, Joseph Douglas, Chappaqua, N.Y.: Mid 19-century screwdriver (258244).
Weiss, Dr. M. M., Holbrook, L.L., N.Y.: Simplex 16 mm. motion-picture camera and projector (252177).
Weitzman, Dr. Stanley H., Washington, D.C.: Fish from South America, holotype and 6 paratypes (248541) ; 10 fishes from yarious localities (248587, 251778, 252915).
Welch, Mrs. Harold V., Springfield, Tll.: Dress and black lace shawl worn by Mrs. Abraham Lincoln (241232).
Wells, Lt. Comdr. William H. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Welsh, Peter C., Washington, D.C.: U.S. Army distinctive insigne, Ist Medical (251789).
Wenner, J. J., Danbury, Conn.: 20 water-color prints of scenes from the War of 1812 by Rodolfo Claudus (253325).
Wentzel, Volkmar, Washington, D.C.: Marimba and a pair of playing sticks from Chopi, Mozambique (258597).
Wernett, Cpl. Lemont, Center Valley, Pa.: (Through Edward J. Spurlock) U.S. bolo knife, model 1909 (252485).
Wesche, Mr. and Mrs. Harry C., Jr., Fort George G. Meade, Md.: Beaded pouch and 2 belts from the Chippewa of Mille Lacs Lake, Minnesota (2492138).
West, Allan, Washington, D.C.: 7 limonite concretions from Washington, D.C. (249648).
West Virginia Centennial Medallion Committee, Point Pleasant, W. Va.: (Through Carroll W. Casto) presentation case containing 2 official West Virginia Centennial Medallions (252328) ~ Western Electric Co., Inc., Baltimore, Md.: (Through R. A. Bergquist) 2 submarine telephone cables (250989).
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio: (Through Prof. John K. Major) 10 specimens of early optical, astronomical, and electrostatic apparatus (249272).
Westinghouse, Aubrey, Victoria, B. C., Canada: Letter and envelope from George Westinghouse to his son and Certificate of Merit from Kingdom of Italy with letter from Italian Ambassador to U.S. (252185).
Westinghouse Electric Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through Dr. John K. Hulm) 3 superconducting coils (254075)
Westinghouse Electric Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa., and Niagara Mohawk Power Corp., Buffalo, N.Y.: (Through Tomlinson Fort and HK. B. Strowger) first alternator installed in the Adams Station No. 1 at Niagara Falls, N.Y., 1895 (252443).
Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Glen Echo Heights, Md.: 9 bird skins (253935). (See also Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of; and Smithsonian Institution)
Weyl, Anna Czachorowsky (deceased): (Through Mrs. Helen W. Cate) bureau searf, 1880 (250981).
Weyrauch, Dr. W., Tucumdn, Argentina: 96 land mollusks, including 90 paratypes, from Peru (248934) ; (through Axel A. Olssen) 72 marine mollusks from Chile and Peru (251220). (See also Universidad Nacional de Tucuman )
Wheeler, Dr. Marshall R., Austin, Tex.: 14 flies from America (248928, 249247).
Whitcomb, Dr. W. D., Waltham, Mass.: 4 parasitic wasps (249576).

<<<Page: 224>>>

White, Mrs. Arthur, Middleburg, Va.: Shoshone Indian cradleboard and photograph of Shoshone Chief Jack Edmo and family (249363).
White, Charles E., Indianapolis, Ind. : 144 scarab beetles from Indiana (250607).
White, John H., Washington, D.C.: Victor 78-RPM phonograph record bearing two addresses of Warren Harding and U.S. postal ecard dated 1875 (249262, 253830).
White, Dr. John M., Corpus Christi, Tex.: 3 centipedes (250593).
White, John S., Jr.. Lanham, Md.: 13 minerals from various localities (250045, 251804, 252283).
White, Morgan (See Baldwin-LimaHamilton Corp.)
White, Mrs. Walter, Washington D.C. : 1,456 U.S. and foreign post cards, mostly used (252796).
White House, The, Washington, D.C.: Carved oak desk given to the White House in 1878 by Her Majesty Queen Victoria of Great Britain (252541, deposit).
Whitehead, Dr. Donald R. New Brunswick, N.J.: 115 caddis flies from eastern North America (249246).
Whiteley Charles C. (See School)
Whiting, Julia, Middleburg, Va.: 3 beaded pouches, a whip from the Plains area, and an Hskimo pipe stem (249558); 18 ethnological specimens from Zui, Pamunkey, and Penobscot Indians, and 3 archeological items from Egypt (253208); 4 ethnological items from Africa (251297).
Whitman, Mrs. Roger W., Old Saybrook, Conn.: Howe bridge model and a safe-chest (248400).
Whitmore, George D. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Whitmore, Dr. T. C. (See British Solomon Islands Protectorate)
Whitt, Leona C., Washington, D.C.: Flannel petticoat, 1871 (250311).
Whitworth, Arch R., Geraldton, Western Australia: Marine mollusk from Adele Island, Western Australia (253236).
Hill
Widmaier, Kurt (See C. & BH. Fein Co.)
Wiggins, Dr. L. Gard (See Harvard University, President and Fellows of)
Wight, Mrs. Ethel M., West Palm Beach, Fla.: Paisley shawl, ca. 1850 (250984).
Wilber, David, Woodland Hills, Calif.: Manganoan calcite from Montreal, Wis., and adamite from Durango, Mexico (252660, exchange).
Wilby, H. M., Fort Myers, Fla.: Nanduti lace handkerchief (248908).
Wilcox, John A., Albany, N.Y.: 2 leaf beetles, type and paratype, Central and South America (250352).
Wildenberg, Marvin, Long Island, N.Y.: 430 postage stamps of the Republic of Guinea (248948).
Wilding, Mrs. Dorothy L., Silver Spring, Md.: Woman’s fan, 19th century (249297); robe and folding fan from China (249807).
Willetts, Budd A. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
William Carey College, Hattiesburg, Miss.: (Through M. Roy Hood) 11 crabs (248034).
Williams, Dr. Austin B. (See North Carolina, University of) Williams, Frank
Trawling Survey)
Williams, Harry L., Kelowna, B.C., Canada: Serpentine from British Columbia (253771).
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. John B.,, Miami, Fla.: (Through Axel A. Olsson) 10 mollusks from the late Tertiary of southern Florida (250059).
Williams, Dr. T. Walley, Morgantown, W. Va.: 30 fossil mollusks from Rice’s Pit, Hampton, Va. (248339).
Williams, Toby, Delhi, La.: Fossil cephalopod from the Lower Cretaceous of Louisiana (252826).
Willink, Dr. Abraham (See Universidad Nacional de Tucum4n)
Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts, Wilmington, Del.: Through Bruce St. John, William Fenn, and Robert L.
(See Guinean
Raley) 67 items formerly in the Comegys house in Philadelphia (253792).

<<<Page: 225>>>

Wilson, Dr. Druid (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Wilson, R. Thornton, New York, N.Y.: Chinese export porcelain cup and saucer (252297).
Wilson, Dr. Volney C., Schenectady, N.Y.: Photostatic copy of CP-1 re corder trace (247912).
Wilson, William H., Arlington, Va.: American shell fragment, ca. 1812 (249436) ; naval bomb fired into Fort Belvoir during the War of 1812 (249926, exchange).
Wiman, Virginia, Hillcrest Heights, Md.: 48 first-day covers, 30 first-day programs, and 3 stamped posters (253836) .
Windsor, James K., Jr., Hacienda Heights, Calif.: 2 searab beetles from Colorado (252475).
Wirth, Dr. Michael, St. Louis, Mo.: 238 lichens from Mexico (253062) .
Wirth, Dr. W. W., Washington, D.C. : 61 caddis flies and lacewings (253509).
Wisconsin, University of, Madison, Wis.: 10 phanerogams (249331) ; 58 phanerogams, 2 grasses, % ferns, and 5 wood specimens from Mexico (252835, 952845, exchange) ; (through Dr. John W. Thomson) 132 lichens from Alaska (248651, 253821, exchanges).
Wise, Charles D. (See Ball State Teachers College)
Wiseman, Dr. John S., Austin, Tex.: Slide of bird lice, holotype and allotype
(249066).
Wislocki, George S., Washington, D.C.: 43 marine mollusks from Hawaii (252870).
Witkin, Bernard T., Denver, Colo.: Perforated metal strip used for the manufacture of zinc-coated steel cents, 1948 (251156).
Witt, William L., Edgar Springs, Mo.: 19 erayfishes (248885). (See also Lehmann, Richard W.; and Rigsby, Kathee)
Wolfe, Col. L. R., Kerrville, Tex.: Skin of a black vulture (248738).
Wollan, Dr. E. O., Oak Ridge, Tenn. : Spectrometer (253946).
Womersiley, Dr. J.S. (See Territory of Papua and New Guinea)
Wood, Dr. D. M., Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: Black fly, paratype, from North America (251225).
Wood, Jennings (See Library of Congress)
Wood Conversion Co, St. Paul, Minn.: (Through K. C. Lindley) samples of ceiling tile and insulation board products (253623).
Woodbury, Charles, Washington, D.C.: 7 early gasoline engine patterns (254087).
Wooden, William A., Hagerstown, Md.: Copy of the telegraph train order from the funeral train of Mrs. Benjamin Harrison (249084).
Woodring, Dr. J. P., Baton Rouge,
La.: 8 springtails, including holotype and 7% paratypes, from Louisiana (252860).
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Mass: (Through Dr. George D. Grice) 48 amphipods, 6 protozoans, and holotype of a copepod (247894, 249109, 250756) ; 38 copepods collected by the M/V Discovery and 1
slide (253189); (through Arch D. Hart) 10 amphipods (231871); (through Dr. Howard L. Sanders) 2 marine invertebrates (249342) ;
(through Dr. Donald F. Squires) 743 hard corals (248215); (through Dr. Stephen A. Wainwright) sea anemone from English Harbor, Fanning Island (251908).
Woodside, W. W. seum )
Woolever, Mrs. R. B., Oak Harbor, Wash.: 3 marine mollusks from Coupeville, Wash (252055).
Woolslayer, J. R. (See Lee C. Moore Corp.)
World Book Encyclopedia (See Joint Committee on the Preservation of the Garrick Building Ornament)
Worrell, Jimmie, Wilmington, N.C.: 2 brachiopods from North Carolina (252026).
(See Carnegie Mu

<<<Page: 226>>>

Worth, Anthony L., Highland Park, Mich. : 35 minerals from Scofield, Mich. (249044).
Worth, George F. (See Masonic and Hastern Star Home of the District of Columbia )
Worthy, Mrs. Martin K. tiques Group)
Woszidlo, Dr. H., Starnbergerstr, Germany: (Through Dr. Ruth Todd) 12 slides of Foraminifera from the Pleistocene of Schleswig-Holstein (251094).
Wright, Robert (See Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Wuerz, Charles H., Jr., Riverside, Calif.: 158 miscellaneous mint, used, and unused postage stamps of Siam (248946, 249571, 250469, 252360, 253870). (See also Milne, George M.; Ryther, H. Morgan; Vanderpoel, John A.; and Waters, Harle C., Jr.)
Wyckoff, Dr. R. D. (See Gulf Oil Corp.)
Wygodzinsky, Dr. Peter, New York, N.Y. : 38 black flies from South America (249065). (See also American Museum of Natural History)
Yale University, New Haven, Conn.: 15 grasses (251128, 253322); (through Eric L. Mills) 24 amphipods from Long Island Sound and 4 microscope slides (2480380) .
Yameogo, Maurice, Ouagadougou, Upper Volta: (Through Atomic Hnergy Commission) 2 specimens of the Bogou, Upper Volta, meteorite (251794).
Yarnall, Mrs. Robert N. (See Franklin Institute)
Yatsenko-Khmelevsky, Dr. A. A. (See Kirov Order Lenin Forest Academy)
Yochelson, Dr. Ellis L. (See Donaldson, Dr. Alan C.; Kummel, Dr. Bernhard; Licharey, Prof. Boris; and Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Younce, Paul D. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Young, A. E., Cypress, Calif.: Post ecard carried on the Graf Zeppelin flight from Brazil to the U.S., May 1930 (252358).
Young, Brig. Gen. G. R., Washington, D.C.: Kimono from Japan and textile wall hanging from China (249633).
(See An-
Young, Jack R., El Paso, Tex.: Plattnerite and mimetite from Mexico, and specimen of calcite (248701, 250401). (See also Lyko Mineral & Gem, Inc.)
Young, Joseph, Watertown, Mass.: Monkey wrench, 19th century (253648).
Young, Dr. Keith, Austin, Tex.: 46 plastotypes of ammonites and pelecypods from the Upper Cretaceous of the Gulf Coast of the U.S. (248724).
Young, Mrs. M. G., Shreveport, La.: Cultivated phanerogam (249941).
Young, Ronald M., Honolulu, Hawaii: 6 scarab beetles from Hawaii (251231).
Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co., Youngstown, Ohio: (Through A. §. Glossbrenner) model of electric weld pipe mill (253942).
Yourman, Dr. M. A. (See Bristow, City of)
Yunker, Dr. Conrad E. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Zacharias, Dr. J. R. (See Massachusetts Institute of Technology)
Zeller, Dr. Edward, Lawrence, Kans. : 56 boxes of slides of Mississippian Foraminifera (252482)
Zies, Theodore (See Charles Zies & Sons Co.)
Zimmerman, Dr. Elwood C., Peterborough, N.H.: 40 moth larvae from Hawaii (250583).
Zinovjeva, Dr. K. B. (See Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)
Zook, Edgar T., San Francisco, Calif.: Boy’s velvet suit, ca. 1887 (248827).
Zoologisch Laboratorium, Utrecht, Janskerkhof, Holland: (Through Dr. P. Wagenaar Hummelinck) 3 corals (249549).
Zoologisch Museum, Amsterdam, Netherlands: (Through Dr. J. H. Stock) 8 sea anemones (247598) ; (through Dr. K. H. Voous) 22 skeletons of waterfowl from the Netherlands (250290, exchange).
Zoologische Sammlung des Bayerischen Staates, Munich, Germany: (Through Dr. F. Daniel) 75 moths from Europe (254052, exchange) ; (through Dr. Klaus Sattler) 8 moths from Africa (251105, exchange).

<<<Page: 227>>>



<<<Page: 228>>>



<<<Page: 229>>>



<<<Page: 230>>>



<<<Page: 231>>>



<<<Page: 232>>>



<<<Page: 233>>>



<<<Page: 234>>>

