<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>



<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>

The United States
National Museum
Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1960

<<<Page: 5>>>

Unitep States Natronat MvtseM, Unpber DrirectTioN OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, D.C., August 15, 1960. Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1960.
Very respectfully,
REMINGTON KELLOGG, Director, U.S. National Museum. Dr. LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution. II

<<<Page: 6>>>

Contents
LEN RETO DIWGANO Nees Pewee ta ee, a cate) al
JEEXSENMB ELS Weare rpmraare eae ices ep ssn ar istee ten gaeen One eset e tra Sot ke a e Ot eh ea re 8 PANG GIES TOIN Siniee tam aire ciao e ae ha Des! ne ies, Sic rr Ba Cae ech ae Rea g Nia pe palon ae? 30 CARE ROWE © OLE GCTION Sy sams Ce Cree Mat eae ee oes ta eee 43
LIVE SEIGATTONG ANID) EU SIAR CH e tenuate ln eons. ee eas (ls eee iy ANTAL OTEO] OOO A hae Cae Do peta seam, oe ee NCR Tce se Sette ere 2 eee 52 LUSONOES Ge ce ged tee ieee ie PEC IO Py ae es Oa An Pa nce pe o7 TBO IY ARES sae wis geal ody a Nabe ce seni Re eae ORO TE,** Qe UY Ry bates 70 GCOONOGTE iS eee cles Open ah cai oan ari CC RIT Core) ie Ie eg ot ie 74 Sclencegandedke chinolo ovacet sand ued oe ere eerie Suet bert) npn tires 82 AUGUSpAm Ges ViAMUbACTURES <6 sos fare donc! a ke td io ese eee tate oo nae 84 (Gitvyilll Tei eoy e772 a aA eve reread os Pm oy MAINA Ree) as: 6! 5 CaaS 90 PAIN OPE OLCES MEMS GOT Va8 entice fa is ice OMe i on A ee ae oe ee 93
AUB ARN CHAUILO NIG cere ce eu ach Rola it ae Gp meee ne ae Oat. M eee) ata 96
IDONORS Ge) Guns INAGHONAI (COmUBGMONS 6 5 o 6 6 56 2 56 46 6 oo 6 108

<<<Page: 7>>>

June 30, 1960
United States National Museum
Director: Remington Kellogg
Registrar: Helena M. Weiss
Museum or Naturat History Director: Albert C. Smith
Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator
A. Joseph Andrews, exhibits specialist
ArcHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, curator Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator Gus W. Van Beek, associate curator
ErHNoLoay: Saul H. Riesenberg, cura-
tor Gordon D. Gibson, associate curator
Eugene I. Knez, associate curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator Puysican ANTHROPOLOGY: T. Dale Stewart, curator Marshall T. Newman, associate curator
Department of Zoology: Herbert Friedmann, head curator
Mammats: David H. Johnson, curator Henry W. Setzer, associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate
curator
Brrops: Herbert Friedmann, acting curator Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator
REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Doris M. Cochran, curator
Fisues: Leonard P. Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator William R. Taylor, associate curator
Insects: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator Osear L. Cartwright, associate curator
Schultz, curator
Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., associate curator William D. Field, associate curator Sophy Parfin, assistant curator Marine INVERTEBRATES: Fenner A. Chace, Jr., curator Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator Thomas E. Bowman, associate curator Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate curator Mouuusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate curator
Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator
PHANEROGAMS: Lyman B. Smith, curator Emery C. Leonard, associate curator Richard $. Cowan, associate curator Velva E. Rudd, associate curator John J. Wurdack, associate curator Frrns: Conrad V. Morton, curator
Grasses: Jason R. Swallen, acting curator CryptocaMs: Mason EH. Hale, acting curator Paul 8. Conger, associate curator Robert R. Ireland, assistant curator Woops: William L. Stern, curator
Department of Geology: Gustav A. Cooper, head curator
MINERALOGY AND PrrroLoacy: George S. Switzer, curator Kdward P. Henderson associate curator Paul E. Desautels, associate curator toy §. Clarke, Jr., chemist INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND PaLEOBOTANY: Gustav A. acting curator
Wavo . Cooper,
Richard §. Boardman, associate curator Porter M. lier, associate curator Richard Cifelli, associate curator Erle G. Kauffman, assistant curator VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. Lewis Gazin, curator David H. Dunkle, associate curator Nicholas Hotton 1, associate curator Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits specialist

<<<Page: 8>>>

Museum or History AND TECHNOLOGY
Director: Frank A. Taylor
Assistant Director: John C. Ewers
Department of Science and Technology: Robert P. Multhauf, head curator
PuysicaL Sciences: Robert P. Multhauf, acting curator
MECHANICAL AND CrviL ENGINEERING: -
Eugene §. Ferguson, curator; in charge of Section of Tools Edwin A. Battison, associate curator, Sections of Light Machinery and Horology Robert M. Vogel, associate curator, Sections of Heavy Machinery and Civil Engineering TRANSPORTATION: Howard I. Chapelle, curator; in charge of Section of Marine Transportation
Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator John H. White, Jr., assistant curator; in charge of Section of Land Transportation ExLectrriciry: W. James King, acting curator Mepicau ScieNcEs: John B. Blake, curator; in charge of Section of Medical and Dental History Sami K. Hamarneh, associate curator, in charge of Section of Pharmaceutical History and Health
Department of Arts and Manufactures: Philip W. Bishop, head curator
TEXTILES: Grace curator Nancy E. Vaughan, junior curator CERAMICS AND GuaAss: Paul V. Gardner, acting curator GrapuHic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator Fuller O. Griffith, assistant curator
L. Rogers, acting
INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION: Philip W. Bishop, acting curator Charles O. Houston, Jr., associate curator AGRICULTURE AND Forest PRopUCTS: Edward C. Kendall, acting curator
Department of Civil History: Anthony N. B. Garvan, head curator
Peter C. Welsh, associate curator, Arlene P. Krimgold, junior curator
Poriticat History: Wilcomb E. Washburn, curator Mrs. Margaret Brown associate curator Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator Mrs. Anne W. Murray, assistant curator Emily M. Ross, junior curator Cuxutursu History: C. Maleolm Watkins, acting curator John D. Shortridge, associate curator John N. Pearce, assistant curator
Klapthor,
Rodris C. Roth, associate curator Anthony W. Hathaway, junior curator PHILATELY AND Postau History: George T. Turner, acting curator Francis J. McCall, associate curator Carl H. Scheele, assistant curator Numismatics: Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, acting curator Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator
Department of Armed Forces History: Mendel L. Peterson, head curator
Miuitary History: Edgar M. Howell, acting curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., curator
assistant
Navaut History: Mendel L. Peterson, acting curator Philip K. Lundeberg, associate curator

<<<Page: 9>>>

Office of Exhibits: John EK. Anglim, Chief
Rolland O. Hower, assistant chief Benjamin W. Lawless, assistant chief
Henorary Smithsonian Fellows, Collaborators, Associates, Custodians of Collections, and Honorary Curators
Anthropology Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, AnthroBetty J. Meggers, Archeology pology H. Morgan Smith, Archeology Neil M. Judd, Anthropology W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology Herbert W. Krieger, Anthropology W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology Zoology Paul Bartsch, Mollusks1! Allen MeIntosh, Helminthology M. A. Carriker, Jr., Insects J. Perey Moore, Marine Invertebrates Carl J. Drake, Insects Carl F. W. Muesebeck, Insects Isaac Ginsberg, Fishes Waldo L. Schmitt, Marine Invertebrates D. C. Graham, Biology Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Crayfishes R. E. Snodgrass, Insects A. Brazier Howell, Mammals Thomas E. Snyder, Isoptera Laurence Irving, Birds Alexander Wetmore, Birds W. L. Jellison, insects Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera? Crustacea Botany Agnes Chase, Grasses Floyd A. McClure, Grasses Ellsworth P. Killip, Phanerogams John A. Stevenson, Fungi
William N. Watkins, Woods
Geology Ray 8. Bassler, Paleontology C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate PaleRoland W. Brown, Paleobotany ontology Preston Cloud, Invertebrate PaleonJ. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Paletology ontology ?
W. T. Sehaller, Mineralogy
History
Elmer C. Herber, History F. W. Mckay, Numismatics Ivor Noel Hume, Cultural History
Exhibits
William L. Brown, Taxidermy
! Deceased, April 24, 1960. 2 Deceased, October 10, 1960. 3 Deceased, March 21, 1960.

<<<Page: 10>>>

Annual Report of the Director
United States National Museum
Introduction
The staff of the United States National Museum has for almost a decade been modernizing the Museum’s exhibits. Since the first of its new halls, Latin-American archeology, was reopened in 1954, reconstruction of 18 halls has been completed. In the Natural History Museum work is in progress on 6 others, and work on an additional 17 is scheduled.
Modernization of the physical science, technology, and history exhibits has been combined with preparations for occupying the new Museum of History and Technology, now approaching completion. All of these exhibits are scheduled to be modernized before they are transferred to the 48 halls of the new museum. Portions of a number of them are already on temporary display in the Arts and Industries Building, and others are in process of design and construction.
For an exhibits program of this scope to make significant progress, it must be guided by principles that take account of the needs and desires of the Museum’s visitors, who last year numbered approximately 6 million.
Almost two-thirds of our visitors, it is estimated, are tourists. The others are from Washington and the neighboring states. Nearly half a milion of the total are young people who come in school groups—high school seniors on tour from all sections of the Union, foreign exchange students, and classes from schools in the Washington metropolitan area.

<<<Page: 11>>>

In spring 1960 the pouring of concrete for the foundation slab of the Museum of History and Technology was completed, and by mid-summer erection of structural steel was underway. In this view the building is seen from the director's office in the Natural History Museum, across 12th street. The new museum is rising on the Mall between Madison Drive (left) and Constitution Avenue. At far right across the Avenue can be seen buildings of the Federal Triangle.

<<<Page: 12>>>

Most of these visitors come to the Museum to be entertained, or to learn. All expect to see on display objects they have encountered at home or abroad, or heard about, or seen in the movies or on television, or read about in a book. Among the objects they come to see are many unique national treasures.
Quite simply and obviously our task, therefore, is to select and display as many of the more than 54 million objects in our collections as the importance of the individual object warrants and our exhibit space permits.
Furthermore, so that we do not become a mere curiosity shop, we must show these objects in a meaningful context. That is to say, a large museum with the resources of great collections to draw upon for its exhibits has the responsibility to show, in a manner that makes apparent their significance, those carefully selected objects that are of greatest interest, timeliness, and educational value.
Wherever possible, we choose original and authentic objects. For obvious reasons, our new hall of oceanic life will contain the replica of a whale, just as our transportation halls abound in models of trains, fire engines, and ships. No replica, however, can replace our Hope diamond or the original Star Spangled Banner, no model, the Wright brothers’ aeroplane.
In a large museum such as ours, moreover, the visitor rightly expects to see not merely original objects of importance, but a great variety of them. A token sampling of the kinds of minerals, for example, would be acceptable in a small museum lacking an extensive collection. We, on the other hand, would fail in our obligation to our visitors if our new mineral hall, featuring one of the world’s ereat collections, showed less than the 1,800 specimens it now contains.
From this obligation arise two problems that have had to be met in planning and designing each of our new halls: First, how to show the variety of objects needed to represent our collections and to tell their story without reducing our halls to the tedious publicstorage type of display that characterized museums of the past generation. Second, how to provide a satisfactory explanatory context without using so many labe's and graphic devices that they overwhelm the objects and thus deflect the visitor’s attention from the object to the method of display.
In our bird hall, opened in 1956, for examp!e, we selected a context appropriate to the objects and to the hall available for their exhibition. With no more than 4650 square feet of space available, the hall nevertheless contains 10 large habitat groups of unusual or little-known birds, 10 cases of representative birds from major geographic areas, 9 alcoves explaining important biological aspects

<<<Page: 13>>>

of bird life, and a large central synoptic exhibit in which some 400 specimens show relationships among the principal families of birds. Here, without crowding or confusion, an adequate representation of the birds of the world is brought together in an explanatory context that focuses the visitor’s attention both on the exotic and unfamiliar and on biological factors that will contribute to his understanding of the birds he sees every day.
Labels and graphic devices are subordinated, lest they dominate the objects on display and give our visitor the impression that he is walking through a 3-dimensional textbook. This type of exhibit may be suitable for a class visit to the Museum, but we must assume that most of our visitors will take a less specialized attitude and are interested in the objects for their own sake.
Therefore, we so arrange objects that they demonstrate ideas and relationships pertinent to them. The visitor receives these ideas as emanating from his study of the objects, rather than as something merely imputed to them by the accompanying labels and graphic devices. When explanatory texts must be used, we try to keep them short and simple. Our young visitors, and their elders, too, need not digest massive doses of print in order to understand what is before them.
Our First Ladies hall illustrates these points. Opened 5 years ago it displays, in rooms representing appropriate periods in White House history, our collection of dresses of First Ladies of the White House, and highlights a century and a half of changes in costume and interior decor. A minimum of printed label information is needed to convey the essential meaning of the exhibit, which is dominated by the orderly profusion of rare and authentic costumes and furnishings.
A more recent example is our new agriculture hall. As the pictures on pages 17 to 22 indicate, models and full-sized implements, supported by graphic devices and labels, illustrate historic improvements in American farm implements over the past two centuries, and point to the European origins of these implements. At the same time, the visitor willing to pause a moment to study the hall in detail can appreciate from the exhibits some of the consequences of applying machines and power to farm tasks.
At all times in our modernization program we keep in mind the wide range of interests represented by our visitors. The goal we seek is not an exhibit hall that attempts to force knowledge upon the visitor, that drives home a message, that propagandizes him. Rather, our goal is the exhibit hall in which the visitor will find it pleasant to learn, and in which learning is made easy.

<<<Page: 14>>>

Buildings Additions to the Natural History Building
The Congress, by act approved May 13, 1960 (P.L. 86-455), appropriated $13,500,000 toward the construction of additions to the Natural History Building. This is estimated to permit the construction of the east wing and the air-conditioning of the existing building. These are required to provide critically needed laboratories and workrooms for the scientific work of the Natural History Museum and necessary climatic control for the protection of the national collections in art, the natural sciences, and anthropology. The additions will also provide improved facilities for the convenience and comfort of the visiting public.
Mills, Petticord and Mills are the architects for the additions, which will be built under the supervison of the General Services Administration.
At the year’s end, the architects were reviewing the drawings with the staff of the Smithsonian and the General Services Administration in order to make the earliest possible start on the construction of the additions.
Museum of History and Technology
The principal contracts for constructing the Museum of History and Technology were awarded September 16, 1959, and construction began October 5. At the close of the fiscal year the construction of the building was reported to be 20 percent complete. Details of the steps accomplished during the year are contained in the report of the Jomt Congressional Committee (Senate Report No. 1408, 86th Cong. 2d sess., May 23, 1960) as follows:
The Joint Congressional Committee on Construction of a Building for a Museum of History and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution submit this report on the progress of the planning and construction of the building.
The last report submitted by the joint committee, May 20, 1959, described the ecommittee’s review of the detailed plans for the Museum of History and Technology. Since that report, the General Services Administration has obtained competitive bids and awarded contracts for the construction of the building. The low bidders and contractors are the Norair Engineering Corp., Washington, D.C., for construction of the building, $23,738,680; and the Otis Elevator Co., Washineton, D.C., for installations of elevators and escalators, $1,126,982. The General Services Administration also negotiated a contract with the architectural firm of Mills, Petticord & Mills, Washington, D.C., for the supervision of construction. Notice to proceed was given to the contractor, October 2, 1959, and construction began October 5, 1959.

<<<Page: 15>>>

The General Services Administration reports state that some delay has been caused by the steel strike and the weather. The delivery of steel, which was still delayed as of the date at which this report was drafted, should permit the contractor to improve his progress. On March 16, 1960, the construction of the building was reported as 4.3 percent complete. If seasonal weather prevails during the spring and fall, improved progress can be expected to be maintained for the balance of the year.
The contract requires the building to be completed in March 1962.
The obligations to date indicate that the building ean be completed with the required equipment with the appropriated funds.
The regents and staff of the Smithsonian Institution, with the advice of the joint committee, the architects, and the General Services Administration, are working as a team to apply the funds effectively to complete the building as the great national museum which the Congress envisioned it to be. The requirements which were presented as basic when the appropriation was made are being met in the construction of the building.
Within the plan of the building’s external structure, which was carefully reviewed and adopted by the joint committee and subsequently approved by the Commission of Fine Arts, the Smithsonian Institution staff has developed designs for exhibits for approximately 38 major areas of historical and technological presentations. These have been related in a manner which will present a logical sequence of exhibited subjects. Construction has begun on these exhibits, many of which will be ready to install when the building is completed.
These exhibits are being constructed to carry out the purpose of the Museum of History and Technology as it was described to the Congress in previous reports and statements. This is to illustrate within the new halls, by means of the Smithsonian Institution’s justly famous collections, the cultural and technological development of the United States. It will place before millions of visitors each year a permanent exposition commemorating our Nation’s heritage and tracing the history of the basic elements of our way of life.
An imposing central hall where the great Star-Spangled Banner will be appropriately enshrined will introduce the museum visitors to halls exhibiting outstanding collections of significant objects illustrating the cultural and military history of the United States as well as the country’s scientific, industrial, and engineering progress. Personal memorabilia of outstanding Americans, including Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln among others, original patent models of significant inventions, period rooms and furnishings, architectural elements, costumes, weapons, tools, machines, early maps and contemporary prints, documents, scientific instruments, agricultural tools and machines, uniforms, vehicles, musical instruments, philatelic and numismatics collections, textiles, and ceramics are only a partial list of the classes of objects and exhibits which the visitor will see.
In addition to the exhibition halls the building will contain laboratories for the preservation and analytical study of historical objects and shops for exhibits construction and maintenance. Workrooms for the curatorial staff will be adjacent to rooms designed for the preservation of reserve and study collections made up of millions of cataloged objects. These collections, which are of outstanding significance to the scholar, will be available for examination by interested visitors, students, and collectors.
The importance of equipment needed to provide maximum security and protection for the priceless objects in the collections, as well as for the proper lighting of exhibits, for built-in television and electronic guide circuits, for the free flow of crowds of visitors from hall to hall and floor to floor, is revealed in the detailed

<<<Page: 16>>>

plans which have been considered by the joint committee. Also recognized in the plans is the need to provide maximum flexibility within the structure for the future development of new collections and exhibits techniques. Wide column spacing, nonbearing partitions, and underfloor ducts for utilities are typical of the numerous devices incorporated in the plans for present and future use.
The building as it is being constructed is truly a complex modern museum machine. It will show the national collections in outstanding exhibits to countless millions of Americans now and in the future. It will preserve these priceless collections under the best known modern conditions and make them available indefinitely and effectively for scholarly interpretation.
The design architects, the firm of McKim, Mead and White continued to advise the Smithsonian Institution on the progress of the construction.
Mr. John E. Cudd, liaison architect of the Public Buildings Service, General Services Administration, continued to advise on both buildings and performed valued services in communicating the requirements of the Smithsonian Institution to all concerned with the project. His thorough knowledge of both projects and good architectural judgment proved most helpful in many consultations on the work.
Mr. A. R. Eno, supervisory engineer, who is detailed to observe and report to the Smithsonian Institution on the day-to-day progress of the building for the Museum of History and Technology, has watched skillfully over the interests of the Smithsonian and by his expert advice has materially speeded the communication of decisions
on job conditions. Funds Allotted
From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year 1960, the sum of $1,176,217 was obligated by the United States National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and veological materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, technology, industry, graphic arts, and history (this amount includes sums expended for the program of exhibits modernization).

<<<Page: 17>>>

Exhibits
The four halls opened to the public during this year bring to twenty the total of permanent exhibition galleries renovated in the first seven years of the continuing exhibits modernization program.
During the year three halls were opened in the Museum of Natural History—two of them house the series of exhibits entitled ‘The World of Mammals,” and the third interprets fossil fishes and amphibians. The exhibits renovation program in this building is approaching the halfway mark. Extensive areas are now completely modernized, including six of the seven large galleries on the west side of the first floor. Within the next four years all but two of the first floor halls and a third of those on the second floor will have been renovated.
Under the chairmanship of Herbert Friedmann, head curator of zoology, the committee coordinating and supervising the modernization of natural history exhibits has drafted long-range plans for the completion of the program. Extensive advance planning by the curators responsible for the scientific content of exhibition halls is necessary to provide time for field collecting and preparation of specimens and for the detailed specification of models and groups to be constructed for exhibition.
The exhibits program of the Museum of History and Technology, being coordinated by assistant director John C. Ewers, is concerned primarily with the development of exhibits for the new building now under construction, and a number of these have been placed upon temporary display in the Arts and Industries Building. During the year a hall of farm machinery, major portions of the textiles and medicine and pharmacy galleries, as well as individual exhibits in various locations were installed. Exhibits for the halls of civil engineering, costumes, graphic arts, numismatics, petroleum, and underwater exploration also were produced, but most of these are being stored until the new building is ready.
Exhibit unit scripts (listing specimens and specifying associated labels) were virtually completed for nearly two-thirds of the 47 exhibition halls in the new museum.
In the exhibits laboratory, of 22 halls in the graphic design stage, 9 advanced to the production stage during the year. Meanwhile, in the laboratory and in museum workshops historic machines, tools, weapons, scientific apparatus, textiles, and other specimens were

<<<Page: 18>>>

Exhibitions of Norwegian Folk Art in the foyer gallery. Exhibition of Greck Costumes, also in the foyer gallery. This and the exhibit above were designed by the exhibits laboratory for the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service.

<<<Page: 19>>>

renovated for exhibition, and period rooms were carefully reconditioned and stored for later installation.
John E. Anglim continued in charge of exhibition hall design and of the design and preparation of exhibits for the entire museum. Benjamin W. Lawless, with the assistance of Robert Widder in design, Bela S. Bory in production, and Robert Klinger in the model shop, supervised the exhibits work for the Museum of History and Technology. Rolland O. Hower, assisted by Thomas Baker and Peter DeAnna, supervised the renovation of exhibition halls in the Museum of Natural History. The design of the renovated halls in existing buildings has been greatly aided by Richard S. Johnson, design branch chief, and John H. Morrissey, architectural branch chief, of the architectural and structural division of the Public Buildings Service, General Services Administration, and by Luther Flouton, Henry E. Kerr, and Charles J. Nora, design architects of that agency. As hghting consultant, Carroll Lusk, museum lighting specialist of Syracuse, N.Y., provided valuable assistance to designers of exhibition halls for the Museum of History and Technology. Joseph G. Weiner, with the assistance of David M. Davidson and Edna W. Owens, continued the editing of the curators’ drafts of exhibit labels.
In cooperation with Director Philip S. Hopkins and the curatorial staff of the National Air Museum, exhibits designer James Mahoney planned the 78 exhibit units for the renovation of the National Air Museum’s Aircraft Building. Installation of these exhibits, prepared under the direction of Bela S. Bory, is being completed. ‘‘Haniwa,”’ a special exhibition of selected Japanese burial mound figures from the National Museum of Tokyo, was designed by Benjamin W. Lawless and Robert Widder and was shown in the National Gallery of Art from January 9 to February 22, 1960. John E. Anglim, Rolland O. Hower, and members of the exhibits staff in the Natural History Museum designed and installed two large foyer exhibitions for the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service—‘‘Norwegian Tapestries,” December 1959, and “Greek Costumes and Embroideries,’ April 1960. For the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory designer Dorothy Guthrie developed a traveling exhibition, first displayed in April, at the National Academy of Sciences, interpreting the various phases of its satellite tracking operation.
Anthropology
Preparation of exhibits for the first of two modernized halls of North American archeology was initiated, and 17 cases were installed during the year. They include topical exhibits on aboriginal North American uses of tobacco, agriculture and food crops, aboriginal methods of shaping stone, and historic metal trade goods, as well as

<<<Page: 20>>>

interpretations of the prehistoric Indian cultures of Alaska, California and the southwestern United States. The exhibits were designed by Terrell Bridges. Contract construction in the second of the two halls of North American archeology was completed in June. Curator of archeology Waldo R. Wedel is responsible for the scientific planning of all exhibits in both of these halls.
Tentative plans for the modernization of exhibits of Old World archeology were formulated by associate curator Gus Van Beek.
Curator of ethnology Saul H. Riesenberg and associate curator Eugene I. Knez cooperated with Dorothy Guthrie of the exhibits staff in developing the architectural layout for the hall which will interpret the cultures of the peoples of Oceania and Southeast Asia. At year’s end this hall was cleared in preparation for construction. Associate curators Knez and Gordon C. Gibson also consulted with Mrs. Guthrie in developing a tentative layout of exhibits in an adjoining hall which will interpret the cultures of the African, Eastern and Central Asiatic peoples.
In March 1960 the division of physical anthropology placed on temporary exhibition in the lobby of the Museum of Natural History a display honoring the memory of Ales Hrdhéka, Czechoslovakianborn former curator of physical anthropology. This exhibit remained on view until after the annual meeting in May of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists, the national society founded
by Dr. Hrdhéka.
Zoology
On November 25, 1959, two completely renovated halls were opened to the public as ‘The World of Mammals.”’ The variety of the new displays contrasts sharply with the series of synoptic exhibits they replaced. In wall cases are illustrated important biological principles such as how mammals develop into species, how they adapt to different climates and environments, how they develop the colors of their bodies, and the different ways in which mammals walk, obtain their food, and defend themselves. The specimens employed to illustrate these principles were selected to represent the various orders of mammals as well as the major geographic areas of the world.
Other cases contain selected groupings of such familiar types of mammals as cats, dogs, bears, pigs, and primates. Habitat groups of various sizes, depicting large and small mammals in their appropriate natural surroundings, include African buffalo, square-lipped rhinoceroses, lions, zebras, armadillos, and gorillas. Many of the large African mammals in these halls were collected by President Theodore Roosevelt during his history-making African expedition of
563136—60—_2

<<<Page: 21>>>

1909-1910, sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution. A large mural shows how primitive artists the world over have depicted the mammals well known to them.
These exhibits were planned and developed under the scientific direction of Henry W. Setzer, associate curator. Architectural design was by Thomas Baker, who also supervised the preparation and installation of exhibits. Robert C. Hogue painted the backgrounds of the habitat groups, and Watson Perrygo supervised the taxidermy and the preparation of accessories. The mural was painted by Art Smith.
Planning for the large hall of oceanic life was advanced during the year, and progress was made on the construction of the life-size reproduction of a 92-foot blue whale that will be its feature exhibit. Chris Karras designed the architectural layout of this hall, and a committee of staff zoologists under the chairmanship of head curator
To construct a lightweight, accurate model of a thresher shark, a cast of the animal is lined with polyester resin reinforced by fibreglas cloth. Honeycomb cross-sections are used to strengthen the completed model.

<<<Page: 22>>>

Herbert Friedmann developed plans for the scientific content of the exhibits. A contract for the exhibition fixtures was awarded in June.
Tentative planning for a new hall of cold-blooded vertebrates and for the modernization of the hall of vertebrate osteology was begun during the year.
Geology
The opening on June 30, 1960, of a second modernized geology hall provided the first comprehensive review of fossil fishes and amphiblans ever presented to the public by the U.S. National Museum. In this hall the history and development of these two most primitive groups of backboned animals are traced back through hundreds of millions of years of geologic time. Events such as the development of jaws and the transition from life in water to life on land, so important to subsequent vertebrate evolution, are highlighted by diaerams and models. Among the unusual specimens displayed are a 14-foot skeleton of the predatory Cretaceous fish Xiphaciinus, the dermal-armored giant Devonian joint-necked fish Dinichthys, a series, exquisitely prepared, of fishes which inhabited the seas covering Germany during the Jurassic period, and a slab, from New Mexico, showing the crowded bones of the amphibian buettneria, entrapped in an evaporating Triassic swamp.
This hall was developed under the scientific supervision of associate curator David H. Dunkle. Exhibits design was coordinated by Gorman Bond. Fossil specimens were prepared for exhibition in the paleontological laboratory.
Renovation of the hall of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany has progressed. Most of the colorful habitat groups for this hall have been completed by George Marchand of Ann Arbor, Mich., and the complicated and exacting task of assembling the large cephalopod Parapuzosia, which was presented to the museum in many pieces, was accomplished by Robert F. Jones with the advice and euidance of Henry B. Roberts. It provides a fine specimen for an exhibit, ““Giants of the Past.”” Dr. Erling Dorf of Princeton University prepared scripts for the taxonomic exhibits in the paleobotany section. The remainder of the scientific requirements for the hall were specified in scripts written by and under the direction of head curator Gustav A. Cooper.
Architectural construction in the hall of fossil mammals was completed and the installation of exhibits begun. Many of the larger mammal skeletons were installed by the end of the year. This hall was designed by Ann Karras, and is under the scientific supervision of curator C. Lewis Gazin. In the paleontology laboratory preparators

<<<Page: 23>>>

completed their assignments on projects for this hall. Among the materials new to the museum’s exhibit series are the skeletons of two extinct horses, Orohippus and Parahippus, and the Oligocene camel Poebrotherum, completed by exhibits technician John E. Ott; the remains of a large primitive rodent, Jschyrotomos, by Gladwyn Sullivan; and a composite restoration of the Eocene primate Smilodectes, by G. Donald Guadaegni.
By the end of the year, preparation of specimens for the dinosaur hall was begun. Franklin Pearce started mounting the skeleton of the peculiar Triassic reptile Trilophosaurus; Kurt Hauschildt began remounting Dimetrodon, the well-known Permian sail lizard, adding a tail of proper length; and John Ott initiated the removal from matrix, the cleaning, and restoration of a well-preserved phytosaur skull recovered from Triassic rocks in West Texas. Associate curator Nicholas Hotton tr and exhibits designer Ann Karras developed tentative layouts for the modernization of the hall. The perplexing problems of moving and partially remounting a number of the huge and heavy reptile skeletons were studied in detail. Dr. Hotton visited museums in New York, New Haven, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, and Chicago to review dinosaur displays and to discuss procedures with staff members of those institutions.
Thirty new gem stones were added to the exhibition in the hall of gems and minerals, which was opened to the public last year and has proved exceedingly popular with museum visitors.
Science and Technology
A script for the hall of physics, astronomy, and mathematics was completed by head curator Robert P. Multhauf with the assistance of consultants Peter Diamadopoulos and Julian H. Bigelow, while unit designs for a number of exhibits in the physics section were created by Benjamin W. Lawless. In August 1959 one ot the exhibits for this hall, a life-size group depicting the shop and tools of Henry Fitz—this country’s first commercial telescope maker—was installed in the Arts and Industries Building.
Dr. Multhauf has nearly completed the seript for the hall of chemistry. A diorama for this hall, portraying the classical oxygen experiment performed in the laboratory of the 18th-century French scientist Antoine Lavoisier, has been produced and will be placed on temporary exhibition,
Special exhibitions presented by the division of physical sciences during the year include displays on the invention of the cash register (featuring the first cash register, a gift of the National Cash Register Company), the development of the pyrometer (commemorating the

<<<Page: 24>>>

wT JEASEY OSL e ane
Among the earliest scientific instruments to come into general use in the United States were those of the surveyor, as shown in this special exhibit.
The workshop of telescope-maker Henry Fitz, circa 1850, given to the Museum last year, was reconstructed as an exhibit.

<<<Page: 25>>>

inventions of Edward Brown), a loan exhibition of machinery used in compiling the United States census, a display of American surveying instruments, and a collection of astrolabes received from the International Business Machines Corporation.
Curator Eugene S. Ferguson submitted a preliminary script for the hall of tools. He also supervised the trial erection in the laboratory
The first electric coal cutter (left) and the high intensity arc for searchlights (right) were among the many inventions of Elmer A. Sperry that were shown in the exhibition commemorating the 100th anniversary of his birth in 1860.
of a pre-Civil War machine shop and the restoration of the machine tools to be displayed in it. Several exhibits for this hall are being prepared for temporary exhibition.
Edwin A. Battison, associate curator, completed an exhibits script for the hall of light machinery and supervised the erection in the laboratory of the clockmaker’s shop that will be a feature exhibit in this hall. Exhibits for the hall are being designed by Fred Craig.
Associate curator Robert M. Vogel gave scientific supervision to the production of 36 exhibit units, designed by John Brown, for the bridges section of the hall of civil engineering, and wrote the specifica

<<<Page: 26>>>

tions for the construction of a number of the bridge models to be displayed in it.
Curator Howard I. Chapelle continued writing exhibit unit scripts for the watercraft hall, and with the assistance of William Geoghegan prepared drawings and specifications for the construction of 18 exhibition models of historic ship types not represented in the museum collections. The repair and restoration of models in the watercraft collection continued. Approximately two-thirds of the ship models requiring this attention have been or are now being reconditioned.
Assistant curator John H. White wrote the scripts for the street railway and steam locomotive sections of the railroad hall. Exhibits for both the railroad and watercraft halls are being designed by Ronald R. Tavares.
The major portion of the script for the hall of electricity has been completed by acting curator W. James King, aided by consultants Robert A. Chipman and Guenter Schwarz. A diorama depicting the broadcast of a program from the studio of pioneer radio station KDKA in Pittsburgh, Pa., was prepared during the year as one of the exhibits for this hall.
Exhibits of medical and pharmaceutical history were designed by Ronald Elbert and Fred Craig from specifications furnished by curator John Blake and associate curator Sami Hamarneh. ‘Twelve of these exhibits were prepared and installed on the east gallery of the Arts and Industries Building. Others are in production.
Arts and Manufactures
On February 18, 1960, the new farm machinery hall was formally opened in the southeast corner of the Arts and Industries Building. The exhibits illustrate the drive toward mechanization that has been a feature of American agriculture since early in the 19th century. Available space limited the number and variety of actual machines that could be displayed. Accurate models show important steps in the development of the first practical reaping machines, but full-scale machines, Many in operating condition, tell most of the story of labor saving. Among them are a horse-drawn checkrow corn planter of the type in use before the invention of automatic planters; an 1877 Frick portable steam engine used until 1949; the third HartParr tractor, a large, heavy gasoline tractor built in 1902; two small tractors, an Avery Bulldog and a Wallis model K, of the post World War I period; and a McCormick self-rake reaper built about 1900 but of a type that was in use during the latter half of the 19th century. For contrast, many of the hand implements which preceded the machines are shown.

<<<Page: 27>>>

pment
OOd0d000-—+
» 000000000 000000—~—. 4
< —~-00000 =

<<<Page: 28>>>

Models of early reaping machines in the reconstructed hall of agriculture.
The earliest known reaper (top, right) was used in Gaul during the 1st century A.D. The model maker is completing the model (above) of Bell reaper, invented in Scotland, 1826-28. The exhibits in this hall were designed for eventual installation in the Museum of History and Technology, now under construction.
Self-rake reapers of the type shown on the opposite page (top) became common in the period 1850-1900. The one-horse mower (below) dates from around 1875. A ‘‘flop-over’’ hay rake of the type on the wall above it was patented in 1822. Similar rakes were still being manufactured in the early 1900's.

<<<Page: 29>>>



<<<Page: 30>>>

EXHIBITS Zl
Above: Early factory-made iron plows from the period 1838-75. Background scene, from Harper’s Weekly, shows prairie breaking on a 65-squaremile central Illinois farm in 1871.
Opposite, top: The European-type plow (left) was made in 1769 by a German blacksmith at Palatine, N.Y. Most early American plows were of the swing type (right), so they could be maneuvered in rocky, stumpy soil.
Opposite, bottom: Typical ‘“horsepower.’’ Treadmills of this type were used throughout the 19th century to drive small threshers and other farm machinery.
Scientific planning of the content of this hall was done by acting curator Edward C. Kendall; exhibits were designed by Ronald Elbert.
Mr. Carl Rishell has been retained as a consultant to assist in the planning of the hall of wood products for the Museum of History and Technology. He brings a long experience in the timber industry, particularly with Timber Engineering Company, the research organization of the National Lumber Manufacturers’ Association.
On December 9, 1959, the first portion of the textile hall gallery, tracing the history of the development of the sewing machine, was opened to the public. An introductory free-standing unit provides a review of early efforts to develop a mechanical sewing device. Seven cases show the types granted the first U.S. patents, the development of a practical machine, commercial treadle and hand machines of the 1850’s to 1870’s, unusual sewing machine patents of the period, and early sewing machine attachments. The historically important machines of Howe, Singer, and Wilson are shown, together with

<<<Page: 31>>>

Steam power came into use on farms after 1850. The Frick portable steam engine (center) was in operation 1877-1949. Gasoline traction engines came into use about 1900; the two here date from about 1920.
many interesting and unusual machines from the Museum collection, one of the most comprehensive of its kind in the world. Pictures of these are shown on pages 85-89.
A second section of the gallery, opened on May 17, displays printing and dyeing techniques from the early painted cotton fabrics of India through tie-dyeing, batik, block printing, copperplate printing, roller printing, stenciling, and silk screen printing. A special temporary exhibit of rare printed textiles was installed on the rotunda gallery for the opening. It included a 17th-century German resistprinted linen, a painted Indian cotton of about 1700, an Oberkampf toile, an American commemorative print of 1840, and a warp-printed silk of 1867.
Installation of the third and last section of the gallery exhibits was begun in May 1960. Preparation and installation of the textile fabrics in the new gallery exhibits was carried out, under the direction of acting curator Grace L. Rogers, by Nancy E. Vaughan and Doris Bowman of the division staff. Exhibits were designed by Paul Batto.

<<<Page: 32>>>

EXHIBITS ay 23
Examples of 19th century machine-printed fabric with a diagram of the cylinder fabric-printing machine developed in 1783 by Thomas Bell. One of a number of new exhibits added this year to the textile hall opened last year.
Theodore A. Randall, professor of ceramics and head of the department of design of the New York State College of Ceramics, Alfred University, Alfred, N.Y., served as consultant in reviewing the script for the hall of ceramics prepared by acting curator Paul V. Gardner. His suggestions have been particularly helpful in planning the introductory area of the hall and the ceramic studio which will be exhibited. Exhibits designer Dorothy Guthrie made good progress in the design of both the hall of ceramics and the hall of glass during the year.
Displays in the ceramic gallery of the Arts and Industries Building were renovated and rearranged to present recently accessioned objects from the Berwick collection of Sandwich lacy glass, porcelain and elass from the Straus Foundation, and a collection of Portobello pottery lent by Mrs. Miriam F. Belcher.
The Seventh International Exhibition of Ceramic Art was held from August 21 to September 25, 1959. In the three sections of the

<<<Page: 33>>>

exhibition were shown 370 pieces of ceramics—114 contemporary foreign ceramics selected and loaned by the Embassies of the nineteen countries represented, 47 ceramics by invited American ceramic artists of national or international reputation, and 209 pieces by ceramic artists from the Washington, Maryland, and Virginia areas. Prizes were awarded to exhibitors, and during the exhibition demonstrations of wheel throwing and other ceramic processes were conducted.
In May 1960 production was completed on the panel exhibits, illustrating the history and development of photomechanical printing, for the second of two large sections of the hall of graphic arts. These exhibits, designed by Harry Hart from scripts written by assistant curator Fuller O. Griffith, will be stored until the new museum is ready.
Four additional wall print cases were added to the modernized hall of hand processes, and benches were placed in this hall for the use of the public. The design of a large number of exhibits was completed for the hall of photography by exhibits designer John Brown.
Monthly exhibits of pictorial photography were continued during the year, and five special exhibits in graphic arts were shown:
Recent additions to the collection
17th-century Dutch etchings
Biblical etchings by Pierre van der Boreht Portrait engravings
the collection Etchings by Thomas Moran
from
Dr. Charles J. Stine David Vestal
Walt Disney productions Rudolph Eickemeyer
National Photographic Society
Minor White
Marion Carnahan Barnes
13th Annual Exhibition of Marine photography, International
GrRapuic ARTS
21 prints in all media from the collection
21 prints from the collection
21 prints from the collection
20 prints from the collection
21 prints from the collection
45 pictorial photographs
40 pictorial photographs
“The Art of Animation”
Selected Prints from the National Collection
40 pictorial photographs and 42 color slides
41 pictorial photographs
36 pictorial photographs
50 pictorial photographs
July 1-August 27, 1959
August 28—November 30, 1959
December 1, 1959—February 2, 1960
March 1—April 30, 1960
May 1—June 30, 1960
June 1959
July, August 1959
July 14-August 3, 1959
September-October 1959
November—December 1959
January—February 1960
Mareh—April 1960
May 1960

<<<Page: 34>>>

Seripts for five industrial halls and plans for the renovated hall of petroleum in the Arts and Industries Building were in progress. The petroleum hall will comprise a portion of the exhibits intended for the new building, and is based on scripts by Philip W. Bishop, head curator of arts and manufactures. Installation of exhibits will be completed this fall.
Associate curator Charles O. Houston assumed responsibility for the hall of coal. Mr. John D. Morrow, sometime president of the Pittsburgh Coal Company and the Joy Manufacturing Company, was appointed as consultant on October 10, 1959, and has provided the museum with a valuable link with the coal industry and with coal equipment manufacturers. The planning of the hall of iron and steel has continued with the help of consultant Lowell L. Henkel of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces. Dr. Clyde L. Cowan and Mr. William C. Cleveland have continued in their consultative capacities in nuclear energy and general manufacturing, respectively. With their assistance important accessions have been secured and the exhibit plans substantially advanced. Dr. George L.. Weil cooperated in the first phases of the planning of the hall of nuclear energy but was compelled by other obligations to terminate his consultantship in that field.
Civil History
Head curator Anthony N. B. Garvan, assisted by associate curator Peter C. Welsh and junior curator Arlene Krimgold, made substantial progress in planning for the Museum of History and Technology the group of halls which will interpret the growth of the United States. The exhibits to be used in the section devoted to the period 1750 to 1850 were selected.
Following the requirements of curator Wilecomb E. Washburn, exhibits designer Robert Widder virtually completed the design of units for the hall of political history. Objects were selected and prepared for the series of exhibits that portray the history of campaign techniques.
Production of exhibits for the hall of American costume was well advanced at year’s end. Assistant curator Anne W. Murray wrote the script for the hall and Judith Borgogni and Virginia Kneitel designed the exhibits.
A script for the First Ladies hall has been completed by associate curator Margaret Brown Klapthor. Meanwhile, period interiors for the George Washington drawing room and bedroom to be exhibited in the hall were being repaired and reconditioned.
Individual cases devoted to such diverse subjects as George Washington, James A. Garfield, Cyrus Field, Ulysses 8. Grant, and women’s rights were renovated.

<<<Page: 35>>>

Three special exhibitions were held during the year. On January 3, 1960, a special showing of women’s rights material was attended by delegates to the national convention of the National Woman’s Party, held in Washington, D.C. From March 10 to April 30 an exhibition on the history of the United States census, 1790-1960, was presented in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building in cooperation with the division of physical sciences and the Bureau of the Census. In June a colorful and timely exhibition entitled “America Votes” was opened in the West Hall of the Arts and Industries Building. It featured the collection of banners, tokens, lanterns, and other paraphernalia relating to national political campaigns presented by Ralph E. Becker, and political caricatures and cartoons from Harry T. Peters’ collection of American lithography.
C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator of cultural history, continued to prepare exhibit scripts for the hall of everyday life in the American past. The design of exhibits for this hall was begun by John E. Anglim, exhibits chief, and the repair and reconditioning of six period interiors and settings for this hall was undertaken under the direction of George Watson. .
Associate curator John Shortridge, in consultation with exhibits designer Ann Karras, developed plans for the organization and layout of exhibits in the hall of musical instruments.
A special exhibition of Spanish-colonial silver, principally from Ecuador, was installed in the lobby of the Museum of Natural History. The silver was collected early in this century by Daniel C. Stapleton and has been lent by his daughter, Mrs. George W. Renchard, of Washington, D.C.
Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, acting curator of numismaties, and associate curator Elvira Clain-Stefanelli completed the revision of exhibit scripts for the portion of the hall of numismaties to be installed in the Arts and Industries Building. A majority of these exhibits were designed by exhibits designer Harry Hart, and their production was begun in June.
Following the repainting and reflooring of the coin hall in May 1960, two special exhibitions were placed on display in this area. Mr. Louis Ehasberg of Baltimore, Maryland, made available on loan his entire collection, including specially designed exhibit cases. The Eliasberg display has a triple distinction: completeness of the United States series, superb condition of the coins, and attractive presentation. It also
Torches, costumes, flags, lanterns, umbrellas, and other paraphernalia of political campaigns of earlier years were featured in a special election-year
exhibit.

<<<Page: 36>>>

EXHIBITS Dh
features an outstanding series of Latin American coins and foreign gold, as well as primitive media of exchange. A selection from the Willis H. du Pont gift of Russian coins and medals, formerly owned by the Grand Duke Georgi Mikhailovich of Russia, was displayed in another exhibition illustrating the life and military exploits of Peter the Great.
Acting curator of philately George Turner, with the assistance of associate curator Francis J. McCall and assistant curator Carl H. Scheele, made marked progress in writing the exhibits script for the hall of philately and postal history. Attention was given to the
563136—60——3

<<<Page: 37>>>

design of special stamp frames for this hall, and progress was made in remounting the collection in preparation for its exhibition in these cases.
Among the special exhibitions during the year were one of patriotic covers commemorating the approaching Civil War Centennial observances, and another featuring the “Liberty for All” theme used in New York for the National Postage Stamp Show. A featured display of United Nations stamps and postal stationery proved so popular that it has been continued indefinitely.
Special exhibitions also were made available to the American Air Mail Society, Chicago, and to the National Postage Stamp Show, New York.
Armed Forces History
Head curator Mendel L. Peterson, acting curator Edgar M. Howell, and associate curator Philip K. Lundeberg completed scripts for the extensive series of exhibits which will interpret the history of America’s armed forces. Design of a section of these exhibits, equivalent to an exhibition hall, was nearly completed by exhibits designer William Eddy during the year.
The foregoing curators also completed scripts for the hall of military and naval heraldry and the hall of military and naval art during the year, while assistant curator Craddock Goins, Jr., wrote the script for the hall of ordnance with the assistance of Mr. Howell and Dr. Lundeberg.
Considerable improvement in the existing exhibits of the department was made by clearing the area in front of the Star Spangled Banner to provide a better view of this national treasure, and by the installation of naval and Marine Corps uniforms on the west gallery. Models of the dirigible Akron, the aircraft carrier Shangri-La, and the armored cruiser Pennsylvania were placed on exhibition in the hall of naval history.
From November 20 through December 31, 1959, a special exhibition of the recently acquired and unique W. Stokes Kirk collection of United States military insignia and accoutrements was held in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building. This exhibition was designed by Lieutenant Colonel J. Dunean Campbell, U.S.A.R., of Harrisburg, Pa., an authority on United States military insignia.
During January and February 1960 the division of naval history presented in the rotunda an extensive exhibition, “The Evolution of
Census exhibit in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries building. With the statue of Freedom representing U.S. population in 1960, smaller models depict the nation’s population size respectively in 1890, 1840, and 1790.

<<<Page: 38>>>

U.S. Naval Aviation,” which included carrier and aircraft models, selected combat paintings, numerous photographs and _ significant objects, ranging from Kugene Ely’s aircraft propeller to a group of current air-to-air missiles.
A special exhibit of military and naval uniforms and insignia was prepared for the annual meeting of the Company of Military Collectors and Historians at Quantico, Va., May 6 and 7, 1960.

<<<Page: 39>>>

Accessions
During the Fiscal Year 1960
During the year, 2,014,443 specimens were added to the national collections and distributed among the eight departments as follows: anthropology, 57,202; zoology, 346,610; botany, 56,989; geology, 33,079; science and technology, 1,433; arts and manufactures, 1,075; civil history, 1,514,274; and armed forces history, 3,780. This total includes 1,488,864 stamps, 215,686 insects, and 75,014 marine invertebrates. The accessions for the most part were received as gifts from individuals or as transfers from government departments and agencies. A full list of donors will be found on page 108.
Anthropology
An interesting group of ethnological objects presented to President Dwight D. Eisenhower during his recent good-will tour was given to the division of ethnology. A major item includes a full size Iranian desk of khatamkari inlay made by the best craftsmen in the reign of Reza Shah and used by him and the present Shah. It was exhibited at the Brussels International Exhibition in 1958. A continuation of Mrs. Virginia Pollak’s generosity provided an excellent Mende (Sierra Leone) helmet mask, complete with raffia fringe, which is used in initiating girls into the Sande Society. Two hundred specimens from the Wai Wai Indians who inhabit British Guiana, collected by Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator, and Dr. Betty J. Meggers, research associate, of the division of archeology, have been turned over to the division of ethnology. This unique collection includes wooden stools, cassava graters, pottery vessels, articles of clothing and ornament, tools, weapons, and utensils.
A fine Chinese imperial dragon robe of the late Ch’ing dynasty was presented by Mrs. E. E. Daman of Louisville, Ky. An excellent walrus ivory cribbage board, carved in relief with human and animal motifs, collected near Nome, Alaska, was received from Mr. and Mrs.W. DeWitt of Erie, Pa. Fourteen specimens from Korea, donated by Lt. Col. and Mrs. G. W. Kelley of Alexandria, Va., represent articles of Korean costumes made of colorful silk brocade with subdued designs.

<<<Page: 40>>>

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY Archeology Ethnology . Physical Anbioaeloner DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY Mammals . Birds . Reptiles and Anersiniistens Fishes . Nee ae Insects i : Marine TTasrerniatoneeries : Mollusks Helminths .
DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY Phanerogams . Ferns . Grasses Cryptogams . DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY Mineralogy and Petrology .
Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleoletame
Vertebrate Paleontology .
Physical Sciences .
Mechanical and Civil Binefineaanes
Electricity
Transportation
Woods ee
Medical Sciences . Sa DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES
Textiles . : :
Ceramics and Gloss
Graphie Arts . :
Industrial Cooperation
Agriculture and Forest Products DEPARTMENT oF Civin History
Political History .
Cultural History .
Philately
Numismatics . at DEPARTMENT OF ARMED Forces History
Military History .
Naval History .
Tora MusguM CouLLEcrions
ee 897, 198 677, 490 182, 093 37, 615 Tee 28, 225, 046 286, 245 496, 526 149, 482 1, 704, 654 14, 127, 479 1, 735, 501 9, 677, 070 48, 089 ile ops 2, 870, 582 1, 861, 707 227, 075 376, 706 405, 094 Spates 12, 684, 415 377, 375 12, 262, 770 44, 270 Beli 79, 458
3, 030
6, 294
3, 436
24, 736
15, 168
26, 794 bats 133, 987 33, 308 14, 760 46, 756 29, 088 10, 075 oui 9, 074, 268 40, 694 18, 348 8, 899, 949 115, 277 EA 42, 869 36, 738 6, 131
54, 007, 823

<<<Page: 41>>>

The material accessioned in the division of physical anthropology showed a marked increase over that of previous years as a result of a special effort to reduce the backlog of River Basin Surveys collections transferred from the Bureau of American Ethnology. The most outstanding group consists of 148 skeletons from the Sully Site in the Oahe Reservoir, S. Dak., occupied in protohistoric times by the Arikara tribe.
Another important accession consists of 167 plaster-of-Paris face masks of various peoples, mainly from Africa, from Dr. Lidio Cipriani of Florence, Italy. These specimens add appreciably to the division’s large group of face masks and busts, and were specially selected to fill in the ethnic gaps from which there is no representation in the collections. The Cipriani collection will also be used in the Smithsonian’s exhibits modernization program. Through an exchange with the Peabody Museum, Harvard University, the division of physical anthropology received a new cast of the skull and lower jaw of Skhal v, one of the Palestine Neanderthal specimens. The Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research presented a cast of the upper jaw of Zinjanthropus boiser, a lower Pleistocene Australopithecine from Tanganyika, Africa. This is the first cast of the specimen, discovered in July 1959, to reach this country. A bust of Dr. Ales Hrdhéka, the late curator of the division of physical anthropology, was received as a gift from the National Museum Society in Prague, Czechoslovakia, and the Local Committee for the Ale’ Hrdliéka celebration. This bust, prepared by Milan Knobloch, constitutes a valuable addition to the memorabilia of an outstanding scientist in the Smithsonian Institution.
The division of archeology received a total of 56,271 specimens for the year. Outstanding are a group of objects from a prehistoric Oklahoma mound consisting of rare textiles, engraved conch shells, pottery vessels, native copper artifacts, pearls, stone pipes, and chipped stone. Other items are from the Spiro Mound site in Le Flore County, dating probably from the 13th or 14th centuries of the Christian Era and representing a high point in the ceremonial art of the Southeastern United States.
Zoology
Fifty accessions, including a total of 4,242 specimens of mammals, were received in the division of mammals. About half the specimens came from Panama and the Canal Zone as a product of the program of collecting being carried out by Dr. C. O. Handley, Jr., in cooperation with the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, units of the Department of Defense, and various private individuals. Through Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2, more than 300 mammals were received from Formosa. Dr. Robert Traub, of the

<<<Page: 42>>>

Army Research and Development Command, contributed valuable collections trom Malaya, Borneo, and western Mexico. In continuation of the gradual accumulation of representative collections from eastern United States, the division received notable series of specimens obtained in Indiana by Russell E..Mumford, Dwight M. Lindsay, and Ralph D. Kirkpatrick; in Lancaster County, Va., by C. O. Handley, Jr., Louis T. Dymond, and D. I. Rhymer; in Maryland by C. P. Lingebach; and in New Hampshire by Bernard Feinstein.
Important avian material obtained by the division of birds included two lots of Panamanian birds, comprising 1,313 bird skins, 93 skeletons, and 1 alcoholic specimen, all collected by A. Wetmore. Other significant accessions were 749 skins, 43 skeletons, and 1 alcoholic specimen ot North American birds transferred from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 246 birds from Formosa transferred from the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2; 123 bird skins from Colombia by exchange with the Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogot4; and 236 birds from Bechuanaland and Southern Rhodesia by purchase from the National Museum of Southern Rhodesia.
Cooperating with the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory of Panama in its studies of tropical diseases, Museum scientists collected over 1600 specimens of mammals in Panama in 1960. Here the collection is laid out for cataloging.

<<<Page: 43>>>

Noteworthy, although small, lots of reptilian and amphibian material were received from areas previously unrepresented in the national collections. The most interesting of these collections are: 14 reptiles from Saudi Arabia, donated by Dr. R. L. Peffly; 6 reptiles from Swan Island near Honduras, by transfer from the Coast and Geodetic Survey Ship “Explorer,” through Dr. Harris B. Stewart, Jr.; and 23 specimens of Leurognathus marmoratus, a very rare species of salamander, from Georgia, the gift of Dr. B. S. Martof.
The largest accession of fishes received during the year is a lot of 8,500 freshwater specimens collected by W. R. Taylor and R. H. Kanazawa in the southern Appalachians, and another comprising 2,285 deep-sea specimens from the western Atlantic, transferred from the Fish and Wildlife Service. Mr. Harvey Bullis, Jr., donated a 15-foot thresher shark, a cast of which will be placed on exhibition. This specimen is unique among sharks because of its long tail.
The most important insect material received is the scale insect (Coccid) collection deposited by the Department of Entomology, Cornell University, estimated to contain about 50,000 specimens, rich in type specimens. The division also acquired the John S. Caldweil collection of nearly 13,000 lantern flies and psyllids, as well as the Mark Robinson collection of 16,210 scarab beetles. About 16,969 miscellaneous insects from various parts of the world were given by N. L. H. Kraus; O. L. Cartwright donated an additional 10,000 scarab beetles from his personal collection, and he also collected 2,774 specimens for the Museum; Dr. K. V. Krombein contributed 3,467 specimens of mostly Hymenoptera and Lepidoptera; and Dennis E. Puleston presented 2,764 miscellaneous arthropods collected by him in Tahiti.
This was a record-breaking year for accessions of marine invertebrates. The most important and most comprehensive of these are 6,900 shrimps and other invertebrates from the tropical and subtropical western Atlantic, transferred from the Fish and Wildlife Service, through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and John R. Thompson; a lot of 12,475 Antarctic invertebrates received from the Navy Hydroeraphic Office, through Dr. Robert R. Rofen; a collection of about 2,400 identified medusae from the Arctic Ocean, received from the Department of the Navy, through Dr. Cadet Hand; a collection of over 18,000 crustaceans from northern Alaska, presented by Dr. E. E. Reed of Colorado State University; and over 24,000 crustaceans and other invertebrates, mostly from Lake Pontchartrain, received from Tulane University through Dr. Royal D. Suttkus.
The outstanding accession of mollusks is the C. R. Laws collection comprising about 12,500 specimens, purchased through the Frances Lea Chamberlain Fund. ‘This collection is the result of many years of labor by one of New Zealand’s outstanding malacologists. The

<<<Page: 44>>>

second largest accession was a gift from W. H. Old, Jr., containing 8,200 specimens, including many rare and otherwise important species. Two important collections of Pacific marine mollusks were received, totaling about 3,950 specimens.
Botany
Among the important collections received as exchanges were 3,793 plant specimens from the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, including 3,050 ferns, many of them isotypes and valuable historic collections such as those of L’Herminier from Guadeloupe, Leprieur from French Guiana, and Bourgeau from Mexico; 5,808 plants of Indonesia from the Herbarium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indonesia; and 2,582 photographs of type specimens received from the Chicago Natural History Museum. Other collections include 896 specimens acquired from the Texas Research Foundation, Renner, Tex., and collected by Dr. C. L. Lundell and Perey Gentle in Texas, Mexico, and Central America; 567 specimens received from the Gray Herbarium, Harvard University, and collected in Costa Rica by Miss Edith Scamman and in Peru by Dr. and Mrs. Rolla M. Tryon; and 162 plants of Israel from the Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel.
Gifts include 4,498 plants collected on Trinidad, Tobago, and other West Indian islands by Dr. Richard S. Cowan on the 1959 Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition; 5,476 plants presented by Dr. José Cuatrecasas, collected by him in Colombia; 1,226 excellent specimens of Pennsylvania plants given by Muhlenberg College, Allentown, Pa.; 396 specimens, largely ferns, constituting the personal herbarium of the late Mr. Frank N. Irving, received from Mrs. Florence Skougaard, Washington, D.C.; and 855 specimens collected in Santa Catarina, Brazil, by Rev. Pe. Raulino Reitz and R. Klein, received from the Herbario Barbosa Rodrigues, Itajai, Santa Catarina, Brazil.
Mr. C. V. Morton collected 1,395 specimens in boreal Quebec and Ontario while on a field trip preceding the LX International Botanical Congress at Montreal, and Robert R. Ireland obtained on field trips 2,678 mosses from Virginia, Missouri, and Kentucky. Transferred from the Geological Survey, Department of the Interior, were 1,868 plants of Polynesia collected by Dr. F. R. Fosberg, and 1,348 plants of Alaska collected by Dr. L. A. Spetzman. There were obtained from Dr. M. Jacobs, Leiden, Netherlands, 611 plants collected by him in Borneo, and from the University of Zurich, through Dr. H. Hiirlimann, 615 specimens from New Caledonia.
Geology
Among the important gifts received in the division of mineralogy and petrology are: a 740.25 carat carbonado diamond, French Equa

<<<Page: 45>>>

torial Africa, from Diamond Distributors, Inc.; kurnakovite, Boron, Calif., from Mr. Arch Oboler; and a fine Australian opal weighing 25.5 carats, a part of the original Washington A. Roebling collection, from Mrs. Donald Roebling.
Outstanding among the mineral specimens received in exchange are: arsenopyrite from Mexico, metaheinrichite from Oregon, inderite from California, the Ahlfeld collection of Bolivian minerals, and a selection from the Pennypacker collection of minerals of Cumberland, England. Newly described species acquired in exchange are: strontioginorite, Germany; orthochamosite, Czechoslovakia; gastunite, Arizona; eardleyite, Utah; belyankinite and labuntsovite, U.S.S.R.
About 457 specimens were added to the Roebling collection by purchase from the Roebling fund and by exchange. Among these the following are outstanding: danburite, Mexico; apophyllite and spodumene, Brazil; and tourmaline, California. Several specimens of outstanding exhibition quality were added to the Canfield collection by purchase. Among these are: corundum, Tanganyika; hemimorphite, Mexico; opal, Australia; hubnerite, Colorado; stibnite, California; and the newly described species, yoderite.
Gems acquired for the Isaac Lea collection by purchase from the Chamberlain fund include a cat’s eye silimanite from South Carolina; a tourmaline cat’s eye from Brazil weighing 76 carats; a 29 carat yellow apatite from Mexico; a 375 carat rose quartz from Brazil; a cut stone of microlite weighing 3.7 carats, from Virginia; and a 48.2 carat colorless zircon from Ceylon.
Several meteorites new to the collection and received in exchange are: Lillaverke, Varik, Laughalsen, Muonionalusta m1, Ekeby, Follinge, Hedaskoga, and Homark, all from Sweden; Ramsdorf, Germany ; Raco, Argentina; and Aswan, Egypt. A specimen of the Al Rais, Saudi Arabia, meteorite was received as a gift from the Saudi Arabia Government, and Mr. W. S. Houston donated a portion of the Winkler, Kans., fall.
Of the gifts accruing to the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, the most important are: 600 specimens, including types, of Cambrian invertebrate fossils from the Wind River Mountains, from Dr. Christina L. Balk; 63 specimens of Oligo-Miocene ostracodes from Trinidad, given by Dr. W. A. van den Bold; 2 lots of Cretaceous and Tertiary Foraminifera from Trinidad, from Dr. Hans M. Bolli; 70 figured specimens of pelagic Foraminifera from the north and equatorial Pacific Ocean, from Dr. John 8S. Bradshaw; 2,025 specimens of invertebrate fossils from eastern Fiji, from the University of Rochester through Dr. J. E. Hoffmeister; 226 invertebrate fossils from MacKenzie Valley, Northwest Territories, Canada, from Mr. Alfred Lenz; 9 giant Eocene oysters from North Carolina, from Mr. Eston

<<<Page: 46>>>

Miller; 44 holotypes of Foraminifera from Cretaceous and Lower Tertiary of New Jersey, from Mr. R. K. Olsson; 56 specimens of Eocene crabs from Venezuela, from Dr. W. M. Furnish; and 13 type specimens of Mississippian sponges from Montana, from Dr. R. C. Gutschick.
Gifts made possible through purchase from the Walcott fund include: 37 specimens of invertebrate fossils from Czechoslovakia; 1,095 specimens from the Pennsylvanian of Oklahoma; 189 invertebrates from Normandy, France; 35 rare brachiopods from Sicily; 1,146 specimens of Mesozoic echinoids from France; and 507 invertebrate fossils from Belgium.
The most important exchanges received through the year are: 160 Devonian invertebrate fossils from Northwest Territories, Canada, from Dr. W. G. E. Caldwell; 115 specimens of fossil mollusks and corals from the Island of Pavuvu in the South Pacific, from Mr. James EK. Conkin; and 1,100 specimens of Tertiary invertebrate fossils from Japan, from Tohoku Imperial University through Dr. Shoshiré Hanzawa.
Funds from the Walcott bequest permitted the division of vertebrate paleontology to acquire 200 fossil mammalian specimens from various Kocene strata of southwestern Wyoming through field explorations by the curator, Dr. C. L. Gazin, and Mr. Franklin Pearce. Among other outstanding additions to the collections received as gifts are two record-sized tracks of carnivorous dinosaurs from Upper Cretaceous rocks in Utah, presented by the Kaiser Steel Corporation, and a unique skull of the Cretaceous fish Ananogmius zitteli, donated
by Dr. J. Lloyd Watkins, Wichita Falls, Tex. Science and Technology
The division of physical sciences acquired an outstanding collection of 21 astrolabes through the generosity of the International Business Machines Corporation. These instruments, representing the craftsmanship of Persia, India, North Africa, and Europe, date from the 13th to the 19th centuries. An equally elegant 16th century instrument was presented by Lessing J. Rosenwald. The latter is a folding sundial and compass to which several engraved maps and traveler’s itineraries of central Europe have been added.
Also added to the scientific collections were the magnetometer used by Alexander Dallas Bache at Girard College (1840-45), from the Carnegie Institution; the first cash register of James Ritty (1879), from the National Cash Register Company; several examples of the first nylon produced, from the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., Inc.; and a replica of the experimental furnace used by Dr. Alwin Mittasch in connection with the development of the commercial

<<<Page: 47>>>

synthesis of ammonia (1909-12), from the Badische Analin und Soda-Fabrik AG.
The division of mechanical and civil engineering acquired the tools and machines of the famous American instrument firm of Wm. Bond and Son, Boston. Included are a chronometer dated 1812, the first made in this country, and an example of Wm. Bond’s important invention, the chronograph. Other important acquisitions of this division include a rare wooden-bed engine lathe of about 1830, and several lathes and associated machine shop fixtures of about ten years later. These materials were located in an abandoned Rhode Island shop through the help of Helen I. Fraser, of the New London Historical Society, and James Kleinschmidt, of Mystic Seaport, Conn.
Among a number of valuable builders’ half-models received by the division of transportation were two Cape Cod catboats from Martha’s Vineyard, the gift of Manuel S. Roberts. The collections of the section of land transportation were augmented by the locomotive “Pioneer” and a Camden and Amboy Railroad coach from the Pennsylvania Railroad Company. ‘These are the first full size pieces of steam railroad equipment to be added to the collections since 1885.
The division of electricity received from the National Bureau of Standards several wavemeters used in the standardization of radio equipment in the 1920’s, and from the University of Michigan a Fleming cymometer and several early magnetrons. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology donated the G. H. Clark collection of documents and photographs on the history of radio.
The division of medical sciences reports a relatively small number of accessions in comparison with the previous year. Some of these are a 13th century metal mortar and pestle made in Nishapur, Persia; an 18th century microscope made by Dollond of London; a 19th century set of nested, brass Troy weights; and one of the earliest types of ionization chambers designed for practicing radiologists.
Arts and Manufactures
Of special interest among the fabrics acquired by the division of textiles are a collection of Jacquard woven pictures, a 19th century warp-printed scene requiring over 100 blocks to produce one repeat, and a roller-printed portrait on silk, all presented by Mr. Arthur E. Wullschleger. An interesting collection of 19th-century plush, beaded, and embroidered fabrics was given by Dr. and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael. A handwoven linen tablecloth was given by Mr. George C. Claghorn. An unusual damask tablecloth, woven in 1860, with scenes from stories in the Old Testament, was donated by Mrs. Loren EK. Souers. The first pair of experimental nylon hose, made in 1937, and several bobbins of the early experimental nylon yarn were de

<<<Page: 48>>>

posited by E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., Inc. These are interesting and historically significant additions to the exhibit on manmade fibers.
The division of ceramics and glass received from Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower a 13-piece porcelain tea set, produced about 1770 in Wiirtemberg, Germany, by the Ludwigsburg factory, one of the greatest of the 18th century porcelain manufactories. This tea set was presented to the President and Mrs. Eisenhower by His Excellency Theodor Heuss, President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Mrs. Clara W. Berwick made another generous gift of 102 pieces of
Technicians preparing a special exhibit of astrolabes, the gift of International Business Machines Corp.
American and European glass. One outstanding art object in this group is a dark blue glass plate with an enameled decoration taken from the 12th century creation mosaic in one of the domes of St. Marks Cathedral in Venice, Italy.
The division of graphic arts acquired an important group of fine prints. These include a superlative impression of the chiaroscuro woodcut David and Goliath, by one of the earliest masters of this art, Ugo da Carpi (1455-1523); two fine color etchings by Johan Teyler (1650-1700), the earliest pioneer in this medium; a superb large color mezzotint, Cupid Shaping his Bow, by Edouard Gautier-Dagoty (1717-1785); and a chiaroscuro woodcut, Pluto, by the Dutch artist Hendrick Goltzius (1558-1616). Among the outstanding accessions received as gifts is a collection of 255 portrait engravings by important Huropean artists of the 16th—19th centuries presented by Colonel and

<<<Page: 49>>>

Mrs. Robert P. Hare, ur. These engravings include examples of the work of such artists as Wierex, Bolswert, Leoni, Muller, Audran, and Nanteuil, and include contemporary portraits of such distinguished personages as Philip 11, Charles 1, Galileo, Sir Thomas Chaloner, and Thomas Carlyle.
The division of industrial cooperation received several specimens representative of the development of oil field exploration equipment. A 1925 Suess torsion balance was a valuable acquisition. A portable pipe line pumping unit as developed by S. 8. Smith of the Shell Oil Co. and first used in the North African campaign of 1942-43 was transferred from the Department of the Army. Some interesting specimens for the hall of nuclear energy have been acquired. <A diffusion cloud chamber and a neutrino detection chamber were transferred with the cooperation of the National Science Foundation. Mr. Everett L. DeGolyer, Jr., presented an electromagnetic detector for reflection seismographic exploration. This important souvenir of his father, Dr. Everett Lee DeGolyer, a pioneer in American oil field development and a former Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, was developed by Dr. J. Clarence Karcher with Dr. DeGolyer’s encouragement, and is symbolic of the predominance of this technique in oil field discovery since 1925.
The division of agriculture and forest products acquired a large number of farm implements and machines, many of them collected from farms in Ohio as the result of the distribution of an illustrated list of wanted machines. One is a horse-drawn checkrow cornplanter of an early type donated by Clayton Kantner. Another important accession is the Hart Parr tractor donated by the Oliver Corporation. This is the third unit made by the Hart Parr Company, which made its first tractor in 1902. This machine symbolizes the switch from steam to gasoline on American farms, and it also commemorates the general adoption of the name “‘tractor’’ as descriptive of gasoline traction engines. A companion piece to the big tractor is a Wallis Model K tractor donated by Massey-Ferguson, Inc. This model appeared in 1919 and is a direct descendant of the 1913 Wallis Cub, the first of the frameless tractors. Another item is a handsome McCormick ‘‘daisy”’ self-rake reaper from around the turn of the century, donated by the Farmers’ Museum of the New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, N.Y.
Civil History
President Dwight D. Eisenhower presented an intricately carved group of figures, chariots, and horses, in ivory and sandalwood, given to him by the President of India and representing a scene from the Mahabharata. Among the items received by the division of political

<<<Page: 50>>>

ACCESSIONS Al
history from Lincoln Isham were the gold and enamel bracelet worn by Mrs. Lincoln as First Lady and a black onyx lapel watch worn by her after the death of her husband. Two dessert plates from the state china used at the White House during the administration of President James K. Polk were given by Mr. and Mrs. B. Woodruff Weaver. Additions to the collection of American period costume included a wedding dress of about 1800, given by Mrs. Susan Inglehart; an 18th-century woman’s brocade caraco jacket, presented by Mrs. James L. Collins, Jr.; and two dresses worn in Maryland in colonial days, donated by Miss Katherine K. Scott.
The division of cultural history received, from the family of Harry T. Peters, the “America on Stone” collection. It is a definitive collection of nearly 2,000 lithographs by printmakers other than Currier and Ives. Political cartoons, sporting pictures, and urban views are only a few of the many classifications in which the collection has authoritative representation. The Cooper Union Museum donated a group of 76 musical instruments, predominantly plucked-string instruments such as lutes and guitars, which were needed to round out existing collections. An important transfer from the National Park Service comprises 37 pieces of mid-19th-century cast-iron architectural elements from the waterfront district of St. Louis.
The division of philately and postal history received the A. H. Wilheim collection of United States plate number and position blocks of stamps of between 1894 and 1958. Nearly every printing plate used in the production of United States stamps is represented in all positions. An excellent reference collection of Japan’s 1-sen value of 1872 was donated by L. W. Christenson. John P. V. Heinmuller presented an album of Zeppelin covers, completing the transaction started last year. B.H.Homan, Jr., transferred his previously loaned specimens of Saxony stamps as a gift. Supreme Court Justice John M. Harlan donated a considerable number of early United States covers extracted from the papers of his grandfather, Supreme Court Justice John M. Harlan.
Added to the numismatic collections were some important specimens. One of these is the collection of Russian coins and medals struck in the name of Czar Peter the Great, donated by Willis H. du Pont. Mr. du Pont also included 11 volumes of Grand Duke Georgii Mikhailovich’s monumental and very rare monograph on Russian coins. The coins and medals as well as the books came from the private collection of the Grand Duke. This accession included a virtually complete collection of Russian bronze and silver coins struck since 1700, paralleled only by the Hermitage collection in Leningrad. Another noteworthy accession is the anonymous donation of 736 Canadian silver and copper coins, including the rare and famous 50-cent piece of 1911 formerly owned by King Farouk of Egypt.

<<<Page: 51>>>

Dress helmet of the First Treop, Philadelphia City Cavalry, circa 1839, recently acquired with the W. StokesKirk collection of military insignia and headgear.
Armed Forces History
One of the three original 49-star flags prepared in advance of the new design was presented to the division of military history by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Two exceptionally fine swords owned by General Benjamin Lincoln of the Continental Army were received from one of his descendants, Mrs. Henry K. Cowen. One was carried by him during the Revolution, and the other was presented to him by General Washington after General Lincoln received the surrender of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown.
Outstanding among the naval material received during the year in the department of armed forces history was a collection of 134 builders’ half-models of 19th-century warships, constituting a veritable national treasure by virtue of its exceptional scope, from the United States Naval Academy. Other notable accessions included models of the U.S.S. Pennsylvania (the birthplace of carrier aviation), the aircraft carrier Shangri-La, and the dirigible Akron; thirteen oil paintings illustrating United States Coast Guard operations in World War II, from the Treasury Department; and a collection of relics of the Spanish American War and World War II, from the United States Coast Guard Academy.
The collections were further enhanced by the W. Stokes Kirk collection of United States military insignia and accoutrements, totaling approximately 3,000 items. It is considered by many authorities to be unmatched in scope, volume, and rarity.

<<<Page: 52>>>

Care of Collections
TransLent for ferred to Transstudy to Accessions Exchanged educaferredto _investiga(transacwith other tionalinother govtors and Departments and tions) 1960 ‘Received institu_ stitutions, ernment otherinSpecimens Divisions (new ) on loan tions etc. agencies stitutions identified Anthropology . 85 0 At 1, 138 163 706 58, 310 TOOlOay . . . 770 1,082) 8 408 %& 25 567 58,560 66, 273 Botany. . . . 310) | BOO A NG 776 0 18,909 16,365 Geology... 367 112 7, 459 50 263 5,860 20, 068 Science and Technology . 209 21 5 0 0 69 320 Arts and Manufactures. . 124 451 7 0 a 64 6, 042 Civil History . 464 1,181 0 0 O 1,305. 93 789 Armed Forces JeliGwOwW o o 90 545 0 1 0 119 5, 682 Tomas, . 2223 7,20 IG MA WOW Sa mee Bee, e420
Anthropology
Chief exhibits specialist A. Joseph Andrews cleaned, repaired, and treated with preservatives 424 pieces of basketry from the collections in the division of ethnology. In addition he treated and repaired a variety of ethnological objects from all parts of the world, such as slate carvings from the northwest coast Indians, African and Korean masks, the prow of a Pacific Island canoe, an Apache bracelet, an Arapaho buffalo doll, Zulu figurines, a Japanese sword, the wood carving of an Ibis from an Egyptian tomb, and prehistoric pottery. He also modeled, molded, cast in hydrocol, bronzed, and mounted two heads of Australian aborigines. The scientific illustrator for the department, George R. Lewis, prepared many drawings of diverse types, as well as charts and maps, for purposes of publication.
One hundred and thirty-four paintings by George Catlin have now been cleaned, relined, and restored by Henri Courtais. The original canvases of this unique ethnological collection have been removed from their 75-year-old wooden frames and stretchers and made to adhere to a thin aluminum backing. The meticulous removal of old
43 563136—60——4

<<<Page: 53>>>

coats of varnish and layers of smoke and dust has revealed background colors heretofore unknown, and in the process some historical information has been uncovered. When the 450 paintings have all been completely renovated, the style and freshness of George Catlin will have been rediscovered.
All ethnological items stored in the ceramic gallery of the Arts and Industries Building have been re-examined and some have been reclassified. Asian ceremonial masks have been grouped to make them more accessible and to preserve them more effectively, and the entire Burmese collection has been studied and checked against the catalog cards by Miss Onma Maw, a staff member of the Burmese National Museum. Assistant curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., and museum aide Clarence A. Bender extensively revised catalog records, photograph archives, and files in order to facilitate research and to prepare old exhibit halls for renovation.
In the division of archeology, museum aide George Metcalf has completed the classification and listing of several large accessions. Associate curator Van Beek continued the program of systematizing the storage of the Old World archeological collections, arranging them according to types within culture areas. A large number of Greek and Roman lamps were transferred from the division of ethnology during the last few years. Approximately half the lamps in the archeological collection have now been studied. With the assistance of museum aide Robert Jenkins, a number of specimens, chiefly pottery, were cleaned by chemical and mechanical methods to remove the heavy incrustation acquired while the specimen was buried in soil and debris.
The study collections in the division of physical anthropology have had the attention of associate curator Marshall T. Newman and museum aide Richard Jensen. They have sorted out, repaired, and accessioned the large collection ot skeletal remains recovered earlier by William Bass in Sully County, Oahe Reservoir, S. Dak. Mr. Jensen also studied and classified a series of smaller collections from various sites explored in recent years by the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys. The inventory of subadult skulls begun last year was continued. The objective is to make this segment of the collections more accessible and to obtain data on suture closure for research purposes.
Zoology
In the long-term project of incorporating the mammal collections of the Fish and Wildlife Service with those of the Museum of Natural History, special effort was devoted to the rabbits and squirrels, and the detailed arrangement and index carding are well advanced. A

<<<Page: 54>>>

large collection of baleen plates, formerly stored in crates in the attic, was fumigated and placed in insect-proof cases in the east court shed. As a result of the program of renovating exhibits, several hundred mounted specimens were removed from the exhibition halls. Many of these are the only representatives of their species in the collection, or have scientific value for other reasons. A start has been made on the large task of checking their histories, assessing their value for the research collection, and deciding what disposition to make of them.
All bird material received was fumigated, identified, cataloged, and incorporated into the main collection except for lots being held out for study. A number of important specimens received from Formosa were remade for study. During the year several thousand specimens were reidentified by associate curator Deignan and museum aide Feinstein and also by Mr. Burleigh and Dr. Aldrich of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
All specimens of reptiles and amphibians received were identified, cataloged, and processed. The inventory of the lizard collection was well advanced and may be completed by the close of the present fiscal year.
The collections of fishes are in an excellent state of preservation, and those processed and cataloged are arranged in an orderly manner and are readily accessible. The storage space in the basement of the
Restoration of the national collection of 450 Catlin Indian paintings is being carried out by conservator Henri Courtais.

<<<Page: 55>>>

bird house in the National Zoological Park is almost completely filled. Eight small storage tanks were constructed during the year but have not been installed.
Material progress was made toward incorporating into the main collection important lots of insects. From the Monrés group of leaf beetles, Mrs. Doris Blake has labeled and transferred some 55,000 specimens. From the Tippman, Spangler, and Caldwell collections 52,026 specimens have been labeled and incorporated. The expansion and rearrangement of the Scarabaeidae involved labeling and incorporating some 46,210 specimens from the Cartwright and Robinson collections.
Under the direction of associate curator Frederick M. Bayer, the sponges, coelenterates, and annelid worms have been moved to new locations in order to make room for material that could not be accommodated under the old arrangement. Associate curator Charles E. Cutress, assisted by summer intern Philip L. Perkins, relocated the sea anemone collection. The alcoholic stacks, except for the echinoderm alcoves, which must be attended to during the coming year, and the crayfishes, are now better arranged than has been possible for several years. Museum aide Livingston has completely checked and refilled the alcoholic lots of euphausiids, penaeid shrimps, barnacles, crayfish types, and a few sections on the upper deck of the stacks.
The physical condition of the mollusk collections was improved by extensive rearrangement of portions of the study material and the cataloging of an unusually high number of lots of specimens. Museum aides Byas and Pendergrass rearranged the duplicate collection in the attic and labeled all cases and drawers. All the open steel racks have been replaced by standard quarter-unit cases and the collection is now dustproof. With the cooperation of the U.S. Geological Survey, the molluscan library was reorganized and the books renumbered and carded.
Botany
Only minor and routine changes were made in the arrangement of the collections. There is some crowding in the division of phanerogams, and a general expansion will be needed within the next year. The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the processing of new material are summarized in the following table:
1958-59 1959-60
Specimens and photographs mounted). 9 1. eae) Sl 336 sols a9 Specimens Lew aired ie practere ens ede cet ale eee ae pom eae ne 9,137 12, 584 Specimens stamped and recorded isse ites 2804 oo AG
Specimens incorporated in herbarium) 2-60.94 1.2.9.) .) 32,106) 48N729

<<<Page: 56>>>

There are now 57,924 types in the segregated type herbarium, including 40,137 phanerogams, 10,050 grasses, 3,372 ferns, and 4,365 cryptogams. ‘This is an increase of 414 during the year.
Geology
In the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, associate curator Porter M. Kier, with the help of summer intern Marvin Schroeder, reorganized the large collection of type echinoderms. These are now arranged alphabetically by the name under which they were described. This method has the advantage of permanency. Museum aide James P. Ferrigno has been assisting associate curator Richard Cifelli in the task of taking care of the collection of Foraminifera. Priority has been given to the cataloging, labeling, remounting, and distributing of specimens into the collections. To ease the problem of distribution, thousands of specimens and of slides must be remounted to the modern type of storage slide. To facilitate the preparation of foraminiferal samples, which must be boiled with chemicals and then screened, the large room in the “acid” house was partitioned. This provides a small but adequate laboratory for this type of processing.
Associate curator Richard S. Boardman, assisted by Mr. Tully Robison of the U.S. Geological Survey, inaugurated a year-long proeram of sectioning primary types of Lower Paleozoic bryozoans that resulted in the accumulation of 1,200 thin-sections. <A similar number of sections was made of topotype specimens of other species. The collection of thin-sections was increased by about 74%. In addition to this work, all type specimens of bryozoans were resealed to prevent loosening of the specimen on the slide. Museum aide Henry B. Roberts continued his work on the fossil crabs, and he curated and studied a collection of decapods from the Marshall Islands. Museum aide Louis Reed finished numbering the nonsilicified Glass Mountain specimens, which were placed in permanent storage in the north attic, and helped to organize and place incoming material, such as the Renfro and Pakistan collections.
In the division of vertebrate paleontology the number of specimens restored and renovated, while limited to exhibit materials, is noteworthy, but the mounting backlog of unprepared materials, resulting from research programs, exchanges, and gifts, in all probability will not be much reduced until total completion of the division’s four exhibit modernization projects.

<<<Page: 57>>>

Science and ‘Technology
Restoration of objects for exhibits in the new Museum of History and Technology probably occupies more of the time of members of this department than any other activity. The result of this has become most apparent in the division of transportation, where approximately half the collection of automobiles, and something more than half the older ship models that are to be exhibited, have been restored. An important aspect of this program is that it enables the staff to replace parts which were missing when some of the more important objects were received. For example, the Duryea automobile has finally been supplied with head lamps.
The Ramsden dividing engine, one of the most important items in the collection of instruments, was restored to its original condition. Other items restored include a group of printing telegraphs, the surveying equipment (18th century) of John Johnson, a considerable quantity of dental equipment, and several machine tools for installation in the pre-Civil War machine shop.
Arts and Manufactures
Substantial progress has been made in renovating and recording the collections in the division of agriculture and forest products. Museum aide John Wingo has cleaned, repaired, and lacquered the better patent models of farm and food processing machinery, and encased them in transparent plastic to make them dustproof. Approximately 5,450 items have been inventoried in the division of ceramics and glass, and the program of transferring objects from storage in the Museum of Natural History to the storage gallery of the Arts and Industries Building is virtually complete. Cataloging and accessioning of new objects and inventories of collections received from the division of ethnology and the National Collection of Fine Arts are progressing satisfactorily.
In the division of graphic arts, progress is being made in the task of rematting prints for storage in new storage units. Museum aide James W. Norwood matted and made minor repairs to about 1,200 prints and separated them into categories of size and color. Reorganization of the photographic collections continued as museum aide Rudolph G. Morris located, cleaned, recataloged, and reorganized between 8,000 and 9,000 specimens. Museum aides John Carter and Linwood Lucas have continued to renovate specimens and to reorganize stored material in the division of industrial cooperation.
In the division of textiles the reorganization of the fabric storage by type and technique was initiated and has progressed adequately. Fabric mounting and the reinforcing of fragile pieces was completed

<<<Page: 58>>>

by museum aide Doris Bowman. A cataloging backlog of several hundred laces was eliminated this year by the joint efforts of junior curator Nancy Vaughan and Miss Johanna Van Nierop, lace consultant. Museum aide Everett Parker has begun reorganizing the storage of hundreds of textile patent models. These models are being checked, cleaned, and stored in lockers.
Tests conducted in cooperation with the U.S. Secret Service and the Bureau of Standards have provided a method for quickly determining certain rather elusive modern counterfeits. Here the x-ray back-reflection patterns of two gold ceins, which appear similar and genuine under usual visual examination methods, show a definite difference. The rings on the right, for a struck, genuine piece, are much narrower and less spotty than those on the left, for a centrifugally cast, counterfeit piece. The method is reliable, relatively easy to apply, and nondestructive.
Civil History
In the division of cultural history, junior curator Anthony W. Hathaway completed a systematic reorganization of the study collections on a cultural area basis, following the Human Relations Area File outline of world cultures and the Index of American Cultures of Winterthur Museum. William Dowd, of Cambridge, Mass., skillfully restored to playing condition three 17th-century keyboard instruments. Exhibits specialist Edgar Johnson brought to playing condition a viola d’amore and a rare 18th-century one-keyed flute. Equally spectacular was the reconditioning of the wooden statue of William Pitt, carved by ship’s figurehead carver Joseph Wilson

<<<Page: 59>>>

about 1795 and presented by Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood. The last surviving figure of the carved images which populated the garden of ‘Lord’? Timothy Dexter, the statue was in an advanced state of decay. George H. Watson, of Sturbridge, Mass., has worked continuously on the preservation, restoration, and preparation for exhibit of the woodwork and room interiors to be installed in the Museum of History and Technology.
In the care of the numismatic collections material progress was made in the removal of Krylon sprays from coins. This spray has made it difficult to distinguish even between recent proofs and regular strikes. The lacquer was difficult to remove but ““CD Cement 94” and Krylon thinner, used as solvent, proved the most effective cleaning agents. The preservation of paper currency and other documents of value was continued and various types of film have been investigated.
Experiments concerning the use of X-ray spectrography as a nondestructive method for determining the composition of metallic objects were continued this year on a limited scale. Other experiments concerned the application of the principle of X-ray diffraction as a nondestructive means for determining techniques used inthe manufacture of coins and medals.
The preservation and classification of new specimens in the division of philately and postal history continued throughout the year. The program of regrouping stamps in new stockbooks, initiated in 1955, is partially completed. Major C. C. Fisher, consultant, has classified and mounted the precancel collection, using special albums developed for this purpose. The postal stationery collection has been stored in new specially manufactured file cabinets.
A concentrated effort has been made in the division of political history to meet the conservation problems by proper fumigation. Regrouping and reorganization of storage materials continued. Repairs by outside experts were performed on several political banners in the collections. George Washington’s four-poster bed and the
Rose Elizabeth Cleveland dress were renovated for exhibition in the First Ladies Hall.
Armed Forces History
Considerable progress was made in the restoration, renovation, and rearrangement of the military collections. Exhibits specialist Donald Berkebile and museum aide Calvin Dickey repaired and cleaned approximately a third of the weapons designated for exhibition in the Museum of History and Technology. The extensive collections of leather ordnance material and saddles were treated with preservatives and are now being stored in more accessible units.

<<<Page: 60>>>

The deterioration, from dry rot, of approximately 300 World War I posters was arrested by the use of a lamination process. The facilities of the preservation laboratories of the National Archives were used in this work.
Summer intern Dennis Sheehan and museum aide Donald Kloster continued the rearrangement of the military reference collections. Mr. Sheehan completed a cross-reference file of all firearms and checked all the hand guns in the reference collections against the card catalog files. Mr. Kloster continued the removal of material from the north gallery and north hall and arranged it in the new storage units acquired for the topical reference collections.
In addition to his other duties, museum aide John L. Rawls had undertaken the major long-range task of repairing and restoring a number of the warship half-models recently acquired from the United States Naval Academy. Steps have been taken to restore ten of the older warship models, ranging from the Constitution to the battleship Wyoming and the dirigible Akron. This program of model renovation will be completed prior to the opening of the new Museum of History and Technology. Museum aide Alan Albright continued the treatment and restoration of materials recovered from underwater sites. Both inorganic substances, such as metals and ceramics, and organic materials, such as leather and wood, were treated, and improvements were made in the techniques of restoration. Mr. Albright also began the imbedding of friable objects in plastic, a technique which will be used with increasing frequency.

<<<Page: 61>>>

Investigation and Research
Museum of Natural History
Subsequent to attendance at the LX International Botanical Coneress in Montreal during August, Dr. A. C. Smith, Director, continued to serve on the editorial committee of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature; a new edition of this document, incorporating decisions taken at the Congress, is in preparation. At the meeting of the American Association of Museums, held in Boston in May, Dr. Smith acted as chairman of the science museums section and organized a symposium on “The Role of the Research Museum in Science.” In his capacity as organizer for the section of botany of the X Pacific Science Congress, to be held in Honolulu in 1961, he arranged with various conveners to plan nine symposia on topics of interest to botanists.
Anthropology
Head curator Frank M. Setzler has in press a report on the Welcome Mound that he excavated on the Columbia-Southern Chemical Corporation property near New Martinsville, W. Va., in the fall of 1957. This paper describes the first carbon-14 date (341 B.C.) from this archeological horizon in West Virginia and a unique tubular effigy pipe, as well as several effigy pipes from other Adena sites. Just before the close of the year three reports, containing results of his investigations in Arnhem Land, Northern Territory, Australia, were published in volume 2 of Records of the American-Australian Scientific Expedition to Arnhem Land.
A detailed report on Mr. Setzler’s excavations of Marlborough Town near Stafford, Va., was completed. In this connection he and co-author C. Malcolm Watkins gave two talks on the significance of this early and important historical site. During the celebration at Columbus, Ohio, of the Diamond Jubilee of the Ohio Historical Society, Mr. Setzler was named an honorary life member of the Society, and he delivered a paper on the excavation of the Welcome Mound, W. Va.
Archeology.—Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of archeology, continued progress on his manuscript of the 1952 investigation conducted

<<<Page: 62>>>

jointly with Princeton University, at the Horner Site, a 7,000 year old game kill near Cody, Wyo. He also prosecuted his study of a large collection from the Missouri River near its junction with the Cheyenne, investigated during his official detail to the River Basin Surveys in 1951 and 1955-57. In November, Dr. Wedel attended the Darwin Centennial Celebration at the University of Chicago as official delegate of the Smithsonian Institution. He also participated in sessions of the 17th Plains Archeological Conference at Lincoln, Nebr., conferred with various staff members of the Nebraska State Historical Society and the Smithsonian River Basin Surveys office in Lincoln, and studied collections in the museums of the Society and of the University of Nebraska.
In connection with the 25th annual meeting of the Society for American Archeology at New Haven, Conn., in May, Dr. Wedel delivered a paper entitled ‘Plains Archeology, 1935-1960,” as part of a survey of progress in American archeology during the past quarter century. During these meetings he examined documents, in the Western Americana collections of the Yale University Library, concerning early historic explorations on the Upper Missouri and in the northern Plains.
Associate curator Clifford Evans and Dr. Betty J. Meggers, research associate, delivered two scientific papers at the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association in Mexico City, December 26— 29, one on an archeological evaluation of obsidian dating and another on tropical forest agriculture. Following the meetings, three weeks were spent visiting regional archeological museums in Mexico and studying the unpublished collections of Early Formative materials excavated by the New World Archeological Foundation at Tuxtla Gutierrez, Chiapas. Some of the early materials from the site of Chiapa de Corzo show definite affiliations with the Formative Period of coastal Ecuador and coastal Guatemala.
A most significant new research project was the collaboration of Drs. Evans and Meggers with geologists Drs. Irving Friedman and Robert Smith of the U.S. Geological Survey in the preliminary development of a new system of dating using obsidian. Because obsidian hydrates, and thus develops in the outer layer a change that can be observed and measured, rates of hydration can be established for various areas and the thickness of the hydration layer can be used to determine the date when the artifact was manufactured. A preliminary report was delivered at the 1958 annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association and was published in the journal American Antiquity. A grant from the National Science Foundation will place the project on a full-time basis by utilizing the services of an assistant for a 2-year period, beginning in September 1960.

<<<Page: 63>>>

Dr. Evans continued as an advisor on anthropological matters and a member of the selective committee of the Organization of American States fellowship and applied social science programs. In May 1960 he was appointed to a 4-year term as a member of the Advisory Board of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, in addition to serving on the Latin American Selective Committee of that Foundation.
Dr. Gus W. Van Beek, associate curator, continued his research on pre-Islamic South Arabian culture, with special emphasis on the development of a pottery chronology for this region, a project he began before joining the staff. Progress has been made on the classification and the preparation of the pottery section of the manuscript. In connection with this program, Dr. Van Beek began an investigation of the possible use of x-ray photography in the analysis of the forming techniques employed in making ancient pottery. He is being assisted in this project by Miss Lucile Hoyme, anthropological aide in the division of physical anthropology, who serves as radiologist. The quite promising preliminary results were presented by Dr. Van Beek in a paper, ‘‘The Multiple-Piece Technique of the South Arabian Potter,’ read before the annual meeting of the American Oriental Society in New Haven, Conn. While in New Haven, he studied the Yale Babylonian collection and consulted with staff members on the technique of making seal impressions; this information will be of considerable value for the modernization of the Old World exhibits.
Lectures were delivered on South Arabian archeology to the Maryland Academy of Sciences in Baltimore, and to the Anthropological Society of Washington. Dr. Van Beek served as representative of the Smithsonian Institution and archeological advisor at a number of meetings called by the Department of State concerning United States participation in the archeological salvage program of the United Arab Republic and the Republic of Sudan.
Museum aide George Metcalf has advanced his research report on several prehistoric village sites in central Nebraska to the point where over half is in rough draft manuscript form. He published in American Antiquity a contribution to Plains archeology entitled “Coiled Sherds from the High Plains.”
Neil M. Judd, research associate, continued his preparation of a manuscript covering researches on the archeological materials collected by him in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex.
Physical anthropology.—Curator T. Dale Stewart participated in a symposium on the ‘“‘Peopling of the Americas” at the December meeting of the American Anthropological Association in Mexico City. The point of view he developed, based mainly on genetic inferences drawn from living Indian populations, provides no basis for believing

<<<Page: 64>>>

that the present status of these populations required the passage of a long period of time since man first arrived on this continent. For his report on the fragmentary Neanderthal skeleton known as Shanidar 11, all the bones have been described and practically all of the illustrations prepared. The section of the report relating to the pelvis was given special treatment for separate publication in Science.
In spring 1960 Dr. Stewart revised his chapter in the textbook “Tegal Medicine,” providing new data on skeletal aging based on examination of remains of American soldiers killed in North Korea. He also prepared a short article for the Federal Bureau of Investigation Law Enforcement Bulletin describing the similarity, under certain circumstances, of bear paws and human hands and feet. Bear hunters often dissect out the hands and feet separately and throw them away; these bones may be mistaken by laymen and law enforcement agents for corresponding parts of the human body.
From December 7 to 11 in Guatemala City he served at the invitation of the Instituto de Nutricién de Centro America y Panama (INCAP) as consultant on race in a conference on atherosclerosis in Latin American populations. On June 1, Dr. Stewart left for Baghdad, Iraq, to reconstruct the skull of Shanidar mu. This 1960 Shanidar Expedition, jointly sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution and Columbia University, continued the collaboration between Dr. Stewart and Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, formerly of the Smithsonian staff. When the postcranial skeleton of Shanidar 1 has been cleared of the tons of cave deposits, Dr. Stewart will visit Shanidar Cave and remove the skeleton to Baghdad for study.
Associate curator Marshall T. Newman completed a manuscript on Indian skeletal remains from the Lake Springs, Ga., site. It demonstrates the presence of the Iswanid variety of the Southeastern Archaic period in eastern Georgia and adds to the knowledge of a roundheadedness unusual for this cultural horizon. Dr. Newman completed a report analyzing the palm and fingerprints of 400 Guatemalan Indians; significant is its successful application of dermatoglyphic methods to problems of biological distances between Maya Indian populations. He also reported on ‘The Dermatoglyphics of Middle American Indians,” to be published in the volume of physical anthropology of the forthcoming ‘‘Handbook of Middle American Indians.” Also for this Handbook, he prepared with Dr. D. F. Roberts, of Oxford University, an analysis and summary of the correlations between bodily physiology and climate for these Indians. On the relationship of body mass and proportions to nutritional status in 60 series of New World natives, he completed a comprehensive paper that will clarify the influence of the important environmental factor of diet upon physique for a large segment of mankind. Dr. Newman has continued his analysis of growth patterns

<<<Page: 65>>>

in the Vicos Quechua children, a research project directed toward appraising the growth rates of these Indian children under a continuing program of dietary supplementation.
Miss Lucile E. Hoyme, anthropological aide, concentrated on furthermg two studies begun before she left for England in 1957. The posture of fossil man is of interest both as a basic scientific problem and as a practical problem in planning exhibits dealing with human pre-history. Osteological evidence has been given conflicting interpretations; therefore, it has seemed worthwhile to examine some of the more crucial reports in the context of contemporary evolutionary theory. Miss Hoyme has also continued her inventory of juvenile crania. Although the study’s primary benefit will be to make our juvenile collections more useful, the data derived are of scientific importance in themselves, for they will permit conclusions on the variability in sequence of tooth eruption, the incidence of premature vault suture closure, and the age of basilar suture closure in these hitherto unreported populations.
Ethnology.—Curator Saul H. Riesenberg pursued his analysis of Micronesian and Samoan culture. Three short papers have been published in the past year, and a monograph on the political organization of Ponape is nearly ready for publication. A study trip to Houghton Library, Harvard University, and to the Whaling Museum and Old Dartmouth History Society, New Bedford, Mass., enabled him to make further progress on his ethnohistorical studies of Micronesia. At the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association in Mexico City in December he gave a paper on ‘‘Political Advancement on Ponape: Fact and Theory.”
Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, associate curator, continued research on the social organization of the Southwestern Bantu. <A paper dealing with one aspect of this subject appeared in print during the year, a second has been accepted for publication, and a third was presented orally at the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association. Dr. Gibson also continued his work on an annotated bibliography of anthropological bibliographies, the first section of which was published. At the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association in Mexico City, Dr. Gibson presented a paper entitled ‘Levels of Residence Among the Herero.”’
Associate curator Eugene I. Knez is now completing a paper concerned with mutual aid groups in Korea. A preliminary ethnological report of Korean village life has been completed.
Research by visiting investigators.—Among the distinguished visitors and scientists who utilized the collections and other resources of the department of anthropology in furthering their research were the following:

<<<Page: 66>>>

Alfredo HE. Evangelista, Philippine National Museum; Simon Kooijman, Rijksmuseum voor Volkenkunde, Leiden, Holland; Irene Emery, Textile Museum, Washington, D.C.; Onma Maw, National Museum of Burma; Arthur Woodward, Los Angeles County Museum; Carl Schuster, Woodstock, N.Y.; L. R. Sethi, Cultural Attache, Embassy of India, Washington, D.C.; Wan Soo Han, Seoul, Korea; Seiroku Noma, Tokyo National Museum; Li Chi, Academia Sinica, Formosa; Fred Eggan, University of Chicago; Philip H. Lewis, Chicago Natural History Museum; James A. Ford, American Museum of Natural History; Joe Ben Wheat, University of Colorado Museum; Fred Wendorf, Museum of New Mexico; Emilio Estrada, Guayaquil, Ecuador; Olga Linares Tribaldos, of Panama, now a eraduate student at Harvard University; Dorothy Willner, Iowa State University; Douglas Schwartz and Martha Rolingson, University of Kentucky Museum; José M. Cruxent, Museo de Ciencias Naturales, Caracas, Venezuela, currently a fellow of the Guggenheim Foundation; Jorge Iribarren Charlin, Museo Arqueologico, La Serena, Chile; Julian Caceres Freyre, Instituto de Filologia Folklore, Buenos Aires, Argentina; Immanuel Ben-Dor, Candler School of Theology, Emory University; Awni Dajani, Department of Antiquities of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan; Ruth Amiran, Department of Antiquities of Israel; Theresa Goell, New York; Ray L. Cleveland, Arabian Publication Project at Johns Hopkins University; Father Albert Jamme, Catholic University; Erik Sjoqvist, Princeton University; W. G. Lambert, Oriental Seminary, Johns Hopkins University; Joseph A. Callaway and Jerry Vardaman, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, Louisville, Ky.; R. D. Barnett, British Museum, London; Bruno Kirsch, New York, and consultant to the Medical Library of Yale University; Elizabeth Leszezynska, Department of Anatomy, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University; Malcolm D. Jones, University of California Medical School; Stanford Lavine, Washington Hospital Center; Dan Morse, Peoria Municipal Tuberculosis Sanitarium; Robert T. Morrison, Hutchinson, Kans.; Antonio U. Briones, Medical-Legal Laboratory of the Philippine Constabulary; Teuku Jacob, Howard University School of Medicine, Saul Jarcho, New York City; Kazuro Hanihara, Sapporo Medical College, Sapporo, Japan; and Lawrence Oschinsky, National Museum of Canada, Ottawa.
Zoology
The 1960 Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition, made possible by the continuing generosity of Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin, of Wilmington, Del., visited and made general collections of invertebrate material on the coast of the Yucatén Peninsula, Cozumel Island, and the Cayman Islands. Three members of the staff of the department of zoology were included in the personnel of the expedition, Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, Dr. J. F. G. Clarke, curator of insects, and Dr. Waldo'L. Schmitt, research associate in marine invertebrates and expedition leader. The collections brought back contain much interesting material that will be useful for future studies.
Mammals.—Curator David H. Johnson completed the final report on the mammals he collected in the Northern Territory of Australia on the American-Australian Scientific Expedition to Arnhem Land of 1948, and published a preliminary paper describing four new species and subspecies of mammals in this collection. He also pre

<<<Page: 67>>>

Newly opened hall, ““Mammals of the World” gives the visitor an understanding of mammals functioning in their environment. A group of African hartebeests faces the entrance.
A wide variety of topical exhibits illustrate how mammals have become adapted to their surroundings and depict important characteristics of these adaptations.
PLATING poset

<<<Page: 68>>>

Kiyo
Naina cnnditigas of environment bee eoderd the Seakited pefetitlee masamabs of Listealls to ds Walap date a sqrtety of focms whieh superficially o pesetibileccortale Geer advancal maminale Gerepy ing sliatiar cavtranuiente elsewhere is the world.
The Opis phaalsngrr. called ying mined Yo te mative Seateaths, uae ceey iwserh Bike the true Sisingg myslercl ul wsaihenst Asia
Roth Bare developed lian der rabromrs tw waalde thew 88 sausy tnraugh wpen forests whi ae sand bath are active ents af night.
‘Thee mareupial olf of Tasmenia ty af dactibe
appenrsace. boi iio mat sorte eamten Fike tbe
tod Natl of Neri Anecriens ‘ % Bork siakeeate dababilt brushy coomeery, oe
adajird for yopning dena their por}. Hed are
ery dooiracttye ef dmtentie anlealy
The = sifahy of Australis iva robe shir hase le the Spriisg Rare wf eat aed ent
View Boas 183 For hebasoriorg during Ohe Teas hebp: oer essai their eheiny Y :
the ie et at tabs, Bah aie: ad imily bso votes ba fouls mss + gat, Bins and danerte:” Nelibsiy by 8 Brae
Other exhibits define the mammal biologically and describe aspects of the group as viewed by man, who, himself a mammal, tends to think of the lower orders in terms of his own interests, and considers some harmful, others beneficial.
Near this display, “Cats of the World,” is a similar case showing representative ‘Dogs of the World.”
563136—60——_5

<<<Page: 69>>>

Primates are appropriately shown overhead in the new mammal hall. Facing this exhibit is a mural showing how man, another primate, in various centuries and various civilizations has represented the mammals familiar to him.
————— Specimens secured by the Smithsonian-Roosevelt Expedition, 1909-10, were reconditioned for the new mammal hall and were placed in habitat groups such as these of the African buffalo, in a papyrus swamp (opposite, top), and the Thomson gazelle, on the Great Plains of Africa (below).
pared a report on the systematic aspects of the collection of mammals made on Ponape and other Micronesian islands by the field investigators of the Pacific Island Rat Ecology Project sponsored by the Pacific Science Board. Considerable progress was made on the study of the mammals of Korea being done jointly by Dr. Johnson and Dr. J. Knox Jones, Jr., of the University of Kansas; a report on the insectivores of Korea was finished and published, and the manuscript of a report on the rodents was almost finished at the end of the year.
Associate curator Henry W. Setzer continued his studies of Egyptian mammals collected by U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3. He began work on the carnivores and on the jirds (genus Meriones), and in December made a visit to the American Museum of Natural History in New York to study spiny mice (genus Acomys) and other mammals.

<<<Page: 70>>>

( camnccmlima

<<<Page: 71>>>

In September, associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., accompanied by D. I. Rhymer of the taxidermy staff, returned for further field work in Lancaster County, Va., supplementing collections that he and L. T. Dymond had made there in the previous May.
Continuing for the fourth year his survey of the mammals of Panama in cooperation with the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Dr. Handley left Washington on January 12, accompanied by D. I. Rhymer. They arrived at Almirante, Bocas del Toro, on the Caribbean coast of western Panama, on January 15, and for the next 8 weeks collected intensively in that humid coastal region. An excursion was made into the interior up the turbulent Changuinola River. More than 1,600 mammals were collected in Panama, in addition to birds, reptiles, and other animals.
On the invitation of the Venezuelan Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Handley and Mr. Rhymer spent the period from March 17 to April 11 at the Parque Nacional Rancho Grande, in the coast range west of Caracas, Venezuela. This visit, designed to initiate a survey of the mammals of Venezuela, resulted in a valuable collection of about 64 species and 800 specimens of mammals.
Birds.—Head curator Herbert Friedmann read page proofs of his monograph on the parasitic weaverbirds, being published as a bulletin of the Museum. With A. L. Rand and M. A. Traylor he published an extensive study of the birds of Gabon; he also presented as a vice-presidential address to section F of the American Association

<<<Page: 72>>>

Lions and zebras face each other in the new mammal hall. Background in each case periodically lights up to remind viewer that in life one is hunter, the other hunted.
for the Advancement of Science a survey of current changes in the environment of zoological research. ‘Together with his colleagues, Dr. 8. J. Ajl and M. Papa, he completed a study of the interference phenomenon between the wax-splitting bacterium from the honeyguides and the bacillus of tuberculosis. In his study of the hostparasite relations of the cowbirds, he brought his manuscript to 80 percent of completion, and, with D. E. Davis and T. S. Bober, he started a study of the possible endocrine basis of parasitic breeding in these birds. His studies on the nature of the wax-splitting enzyme produced by the bacterium from the honey-guides was also advanced during the year.
Associate curator Herbert G. Deignan read the page proofs of his study of the types of birds in the national collection and completed the manuscript of a checklist of the birds of Thailand.
B. R. Femstein, museum aide, continued his studies of the auks of the North Pacific, working on the least and crested auklets.
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, research associate and former Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, resumed his field studies in Panama from January to April and continued study of his Panamanian and Colombian collections. Atthe American Ornithologists’ Union meeting, in Regina, he received the Union’s Brewster Award and Medal.

<<<Page: 73>>>

Reptiles and amphibians.—Curator Doris M. Cochran read the page proofs of her critical catalog of the reptilian and amphibian types in the U.S. National Museum; this paper lists 1,742 names of types, with current synonymy. In collaboration with Dr. C. J. Goin of the University of Florida she continued her studies of Colombian frogs.
Fishes.—Curator Leonard P. Schultz published a research report on the generic status of the South American characid fishes Mimagoniates and Glandulocauda and another on a review of the pompadour, or discus fishes, genus Symphysodon of South America. Volume 2 of the ‘Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands” by Schultz, Chapman, Lachner, and Woods, also appeared during the year. Two other research projects by Dr. Schultz are completed but not published. A study of silver hatchetfishes of the Western Atlantic, undertaken as a cooperative project to be included in a forthcoming volume, ‘‘Fishes of the Western Atlantic,” gives descriptions, illustrations, and frequency distributions of counts for the identification of the three genera and eleven species of this group, along with their ecology.
Dr. Schultz and associate curator Ernest A. Lachner continued the final manuscript revisions of volume 3 of “Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands,’ undertaken in conjunction with the atom bomb experiments. This extensive and basic ichthyological work has occupied nearly all of the research time of Dr. Lachner this year.
Another cooperative project, this one initiated by the American Fisheries Society, was the preparation by R. M. Bailey, E. A. Lachner, C. C. Lindsey, C. R. Robins, P. M. Roedel, W. B. Scott, and L. P. Woods of a list of common and scientific names of fishes from the United States and Canada. Intended to promote stability of common names of American fishes, it was published in May 1960.
Dr. Lachner and associate curator William R. Taylor completed a short paper describing a new cardinal fish of the genus Archamaa, from Northern Australia. Another paper was completed in cooperation with E. E. Deubler, Jr. Under preparation by Dr. Lachner are studies of the Gobiidae, Eleotridae, and Taenioididae, and he is well along in his reviews of the diskfishes, order Echeneiformes, and revisions of the cardinal fishes, family Apogonidae, and the goatfishes, family Mullidae.
Dr. Taylor has two research projects under way. His study of the fishes of the Arnhem Land Expedition, 1948, about 55 percent completed, discusses the fishes of a faunal area little known at present. His revision of the North American catfishes, genus Noturus, with an analysis of the higher groups in the family Ictaluridae, will be the first comprehensive study of the genus since 1877.

<<<Page: 74>>>

Dr. Taylor and Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aide, made a field trip from August 26 to September 5 to collect fishes in the Tennessee and adjoining river systems in Virginia, Tennessee, Georgia, and Alabama. On another trip from September 16 to 20 in the Neuse and Tar River systems of North Carolina the collectors obtained rare species of catfishes of the genus Noturus.
Mr. Kanazawa completed two papers, both describing new species of eels, has almost finished two others, and has begun a revision of the eels of the family Congridae.
Insects.—Curator J. F. Gates Clarke, as a member of the 1960 Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition during part of March and April, participated in the exploration of the east coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. Although collecting was not rich, numerous new forms were discovered and many new records were obtained. His faunal study of the Microlepidoptera of the Juan Fernandez Islands, now completed, has revealed the multiple origins of the fauna and has shown a high degree of endemicity in the islands. His work on the Meyrich types of Microlepidoptera, a continuing project, has resulted in the completion of volume IV, part of the galley proof now being on hand; volume V is 75 percent complete. Several small projects, primarily descriptions of new species, are in progress. In December Dr. Clarke was elected President of the Entomological Society of Washington.
Associate curator Oscar L. Cartwright is continuing his studies of the scarab beetles of the genera Ataenius and Onthophagus. The species of both of these genera are suspected of, or have been reported as, being intermediate hosts of parasites of domestic and other animals. No adequate or comprehensive paper dealing with these beetles exists, and Mr. Cartwright’s work will contribute much to knowledge of the taxonomy, zoogeography, and biology of them. The enormous amount of material examined and identified is reflected in the 7,506 specimens of beetles determined by him during the fiscal year. In August Mr. Cartwright made field observations and collections along the northern Virginia coast.
Associate curator Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., visited the Museum of Comparative Zoology to examine typical and ordinary specimens of myriapods held by that institution, and to discuss problems of mutual interest with colleagues. While in the vicinity of Cambridge, he engaged in local collecting to obtain topotypical specimens and to enlarge our series of certain species. On March 28 he departed with Dr. Richard L. Hoffman for an extended study trip to European museums, a tour of duty that will embrace studies of Myriapoda in London, Copenhagen, Lund, Hamburg, Frankfort, Munich, Vienna, Geneva, and Paris.

<<<Page: 75>>>

Associate curator William D. Field is continuing his studies in the Lycaenidae, with particular reference to the difficult genus Thecla. Studies being conducted concurrently are a revision ot the genus Vanessa, covering the world fauna, and a revision of the amatid moths of the genus Ceramidia, harmful to bananas. The latter study is of particular interest in facilitating the ready identification of these moths, which are of considerable economic importance in Central America.
Miss Sophy Parfin, assistant curator, is continuing her studies of the immature stages of Nigronia serricorna (Neuroptera). This is significant because no life history of any of these fish flies has been described. Miss Parfin is also engaged in a study of the bionomics of ant-lions, for which no adequate papers dealing with their life histories and identification are available. A revision of the Nearctic Ascalaphidae is also in progress.
Marine invertebrates.—The curator, Dr. Fenner A. Chace, Jr., has continued the study of the stomatopod and non-brachyuran decapod crustaceans of Clipperton Island in the eastern Pacific.
Associate curator Frederick M. Bayer, who devoted a major part of his time to the rearrangement of the collections in order to find space for material recently received and identified, corrected proofs of his paper on the Octocorallia of the West Indian region, and studied material from the British Museum (Natural History) and the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Associate curator Thomas E. Bowman completed the description of a new isopod of the genus Lironeca, found in the gill chambers of the Hawaiian moray eel, and completed in collaboration with Juan G. Gonzales of the University of Puerto Rico the descriptions of four new species of the copepod genus Pseudocyclops from Puerto Rico. He has also made some progress on the completion of a manuscript initiated by the late C. R. Shoemaker on the Pacific American species of the gammarid amphipod genus Synchelidiwm, and, with Z. Kabata of the Marine Laboratory at Aberdeen, Scotland, he is redescribing the holotype of the lernaeopodoid copepod Tracheliastes grandis Wilson and synonymizing that species with Vanbenedenia kroveri Malmgren.
Associate curator Charles E. Cutress has completed the description of a new genus and species of sea anemone from New Zealand and has started a report on the sea anemones of the Chatham Islands.
J. Perey Moore, research associate, writes that “time passes rapidly when measured in terms of accomplishment, and I realize regretfully on entering my 91st year that it is I who have slowed down.” Dr. Moore however, obviously is not idle. During the year, he continued his study of the leeches of the southern states and completed a review of Eduardo Caballero’s contributions to knowledge

<<<Page: 76>>>

of the leeches of Mexico, to be presented at a meeting honoring that gentleman on his retirement.
Mildred 8S. Wilson, research associate, continued to work on the monograph of the North American fresh-water calanoid copepods. During the year, she extracted from the world literature morphological characteristics and distribution summaries of species or species groups occurring in or related to groups in North America.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., research associate, despite a heavy administrative workload, has completed the description of a new crayfish from Alabama, a paper dealing with the troglobiotic crayfishes of the genus Cambarus, and (with Margaret Walton) two papers on new ostracods of the genus Entocythere from Florida and from Georgia and Tennessee. In addition, he has made progress on manuscripts on Mexican and Cuban ostracods of the genus Entocythere, on Cuban crayfishes (with A. Villalobos), and (with T. C. Barr) on troglobiotic crayfishes of the genus Orconectes.
During the year Dr. L. B. Holthuis, of the Natural History Museum of Leiden, began work here on the decapod crustaceans collected during Pacific Science Board surveys of the Caroline Islands, and later he began a revisionary study of the scyllarid lobsters of the world and of the palinurid lobsters of the Indo-Pacific region. The last two projects are portions of current systematic research on the marine fauna of the tropical Pacific, sponsored by the Atomic Energy Commission and the Office of Naval Research.
During the year, 21 specialists in other institutions agreed to identify material of various invertebrate groups. Of the 30 shipments, including more than 3,150 specimens, sent to these official and unofficial collaborators, 16, including 177 specimens, have already been returned. The specialists rendering these services and the groups involved are:
Dr. E. L. Bousfield: amphipod crusta-| Dr. Meredith Jones: polychaete worms.
ceans. Dr. H. 8S. Jones: cumacean crustaceans. Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann: holothu-| Dr. J.G. Mackin: isopod crustaceans. rians. Dr. N. T. Mattox (deceased): conchosDr. Ralph W. Dexter: fairy shrimps. tracan crustaceans. Dr. John 8. Garth: crabs. Mr. Anthony J. Provensano, Jr.: hermit Dr. G. E. Gates: earthworms. crabs. Dr. Olga Hartman: polychaete worms.| Dr. Mary D. Rogick: bryozoans. Dr. Willard D. Hartman: sponges. Dr. Olive 8. Tattersall: mysidacean Mr. Edward Hasbrouck: nematodes. crustaceans. Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth: pyenogonids. Dr. William Randolph Taylor: algae. Dr. Dora P. Henry: barnacles. Dr. W. Vervoort: copepod crustaceans. Dr. L. H. Hyman: flatworms. Dr. Marvin L. Wass: hermit crabs.
Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder finished his paper on the marine mollusks of Los Roques and Orchila Islands, Venezuela, to be published by the Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle in Caracas. He also prepared a report, to be published by the Committee on Polar

<<<Page: 77>>>

Research of the National Academy of Sciences, on our present knowledge of the Antarctic and on future research objectives. Progress was made also on a number of smaller research projects. From March 17 to May 7, Dr. Rehder participated in the 1960 SmithsonianBredin Expedition, which concentrated most of its efforts along the east coast of the Yucatan Peninsula.
Associate curator Joseph P. E. Morrison continued his studies of the family Melampidae (Ellobiidae) and of certain brackish-water genera of the family Mactridae. In November he spent 3 weeks in the field studying the brackish-water molluscan fauna of the northern shore of the Gulf of Mexico from the Mississippi River delta to Cedar Keys, Fla. In May and June Dr. Morrison spent several weeks on the coasts of Mississippi and North Carolina, primarily to acquire notes and material for planned exhibits in the hall of oceanic life but also to further his research projects.
Research by visiting investigators.—The 39th annual meeting of the American Society of Mammalogists was held in the Museum in June 1959, and this brought an unusually large number of visiting scientists to the division of mammals. Among these and other visitors were:
A. W. F. Banfield, National Museum of Canada; M. Eisentraut, Stuttgart, Germany; George E. Erikson, Harvard Medical School; Vagn T. Flyger, Maryland Department of Research & Education; John E. Frisch, University of Chicago; Theodore Galusha, Frick Laboratories, American Museum of Natural History; Jack L. Gottschang, University of Cincinnati; Francis Harper, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Philip Hershkovitz, Chicago Natural History Museum; Donald F. Hoffmeister, University of Illinois; William L. Jellison, Rocky Mountain Laboratory, Hamilton, Montana; J. Knox Jones, Jr., University of Kansas; K. V. Komarek, Thomasville, Georgia; Thomas H. Manning, Ottawa, Ontario; Charles A. McLaughlin, Los Angeles County Museum; Joseph C. Moore, American Museum of Natural History; Egardo Mondolfi, Ministry of Agriculture, Caracas, Venezuela; Ishwar Prakash, Jaipur City, India; and Frank J. Schwartz, Maryland Department of Research & Education.
Among those who worked in the division of birds during the year were:
W. H. Behle, University of Utah; W. H. Fries and Mrs. Fries, Providence, Rhode Island; Philip Humphrey, Yale University; R. W. Marquardt, Oklahoma State College; Burt Monroe, Jr., Louisiana State University; Harry C. Oberholser, Cleveland, Ohio; Paul Slud, American Museum of Natural History; Robert W. Storer, University of Michigan; and Francis 8. L. Williamson and Leonard W. Peyton, Arctic Health Research Center, Anchorage, Alaska.
In addition to 48 other visitors who studied in the division of fishes, the following 8 foreign scientists utilized the collections:
Wilhelm Harder, Hamburg University, Hamburg, Germany; M. A. Hatanaka, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan; Florence M. Hopkins, Isle of Wight, England;

<<<Page: 78>>>

Norman B. Marshall and Olga Marshall, British Museum (Natural History), London, England; Yata Haneda, Yokosuka City Museum, Japan; F. H. Weibezahn, Museo de Ciencias Naturales, Caracas, Venezuela; and Carlos Prentice, Peces Amazonicos, Iquitos, Peru.
The insect collections continue to receive increasing attention from visitors. Foreign entomologists studying here during the fiscal year were:
R. L. Aranjo, Instituto Biologico, S&0 Paulo, Brazil; Theodoras Buehelos, Phytopathological Station, Patros, Greece; J. S. Moure, University of Paranda, Brazil; Gilberto Silva, Havana, Cuba; Henry Howden, Canadian Department of Agriculture, Ottawa; P. J. Rajagopalan, Puna, India; D. 8. Kettie, Ministry of Health, Montego Bay, Jamaica; Newton Dias dos Santos, Museo Nacional, Rio de Janiero, Brazil; F. de Zayas, Department of Agriculture, Havana, Cuba; Osear D. Beingolea, La Molina Experiment Station, Lima, Peru; Leopoldo Caltagirone, Estacién Nacional Entomologia, La Cruz, Chile; Daley de Albuquerque and Mrs. de Albuquerque, Museo Nacional, Rio de Janiero, Brazil; H. Attiah, Ministry of Agriculture, Cairo, Egypt; Aly Aly El Moursy, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada; Jan Boczek, Plant Protection Institute, Poznan, Poland; George E. Ball, University of Alberta, Edmonton; Mercedes Delfinado, Bureau of Health, Manila, Philippines; Robert Domrow, Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, Australia; Manuhu Sasa, University of Tokyo, Japan; W. W. Gibson, Rockefeller Foundation, Mexico City; D. P. Annecke, Department of Agriculture, Pretoria, South Africa; W. R. M. Mason, Canadian Department of Agriculture, Ottawa; Karlis A. Princis, University of Lund, Sweden; P. G. Kuschel, University of Chile, Santiago; C. Artigas Coch, University of Concepcién, Chile; Luis Pefia, Santiago, Chile; Chrysanthus Soegiarto, University of Indonesia, Djakarta; Alvaro Cordero-Rojas, San José, Costa Rica; Norman B. Tindale, South Australia Museum, Adelaide; Bienvenido P. Marapoo, University of San Carlos, Cebu City, Philippines; J. R. Vockeroth, Canadian Department of Agriculture, Ottawa; and J. W. Evans and Mrs. Evans, Australian Museum, Sydney, Australia.
Some of the investigators who visited the division of marine invertebrates to study material in the national collections were:
E. L. Bousfield, National Museum of Canada, Ottawa; J. Stanley Brode and Mrs. Brode, Santa Monica City College, Santa Monica, Calif.; Bonnie Eldred, Florida State Board of Conservation, St. Petersburg; C. W. Hart, Jr., Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia; Olga Hartman, Allan Hancock Foundation, University of Southern California, Los Angeles; Willard D. Hartman, Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale University; L. B. Holthuis, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Netherlands, for an extended stay; Charles F. Lytle, Indiana University, Bloomington; Raymond B. Manning, Marine Laboratory, University of Miami, Fla.; Patsy McLaughlin, Fish & Wildlife Service, Seattle, Wash.; Willis E. Pequegnat, Pomona College, Claremont, Calif.; Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr., Marine Laboratory, University of Miami, Fla.; Patricio Sanchez, Universidad Catolica, Santiago, Chile; Norman Tebble, British Museum (Natural History), London; Jacques Theodor, Institut Royal des Sciences Naturelle de Belgique, Brussels; John R. Thompson, Fish & Wildlife Service, Pascagoula, Miss.; Marvin L. Wass, University of Florida, Gainesville; and Harry Wells and Mrs. Wells, Cape Hatteras Marine Laboratory, Buxton, N.C.

<<<Page: 79>>>

The following investigators utilized the collections and library of the division of mollusks:
John B. Burch, Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan; Arthur D. Merrill, Fish & Wildlife Service, Woods Hole, Mass.; Gilbert L. Voss, Marine Laboratory, University of Miami; Tadashige Habe, Amakusa Marine Biological Laboratory, Amakusa, Japan; K. W. Ockelmann, Marine Biological Laboratory, Helsinggr, Denmark; Virginia Orr, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia; Norman E. Weisbord, Florida State University; W. B. Miller, Point Mugu, Calif.,; R. Tucker Abbott, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia; S. Stillman Berry, Redlands, Calif.; Irene Lubinsky, McGill University, Montreal; and Donald F. Squires, American Museum of Natural History, New York.
Botany
Phanerogams.—Curator Lyman B. Smith enlarged his studies of the phytogeography of southern Brazil by the preparation of a synopsis of the American Velloziaceae. He continued the study of his 1956-57 collections from the planalto of Santa Catarina and also of further large collections from Padre Raulino Reitz, director of the Herbario Barbosa Rodrigues. Dr. Smith completed the descriptions for his monograph of the Bromeliaceae, bringing the total to over 1,800 species, and commenced the preparation of keys. With Dr. R. J. Downs, of the Department of Agriculture, he prepared a treatment of the Brazilian Xyridaceae. During the past year he visited Harvard University and the New York Botanical Garden to carry on research, and studied live Bromeliaceae in six different gardens in Flotida. In August he presented two papers on South American botany at the [X International Botanical Congress at Montreal.
Associate curator E. C. Leonard continued the preparation of a Flora of Hispaniola, revising his manuscript with the help of loans from Harvard University and the New York Botanical Garden. His work on the Acanthaceae was largely in the form of preliminary papers for his floristic treatments.
Dr. Velva E. Rudd, associate curator, completed the greater part of a taxonomic revision of American Ormosia. She continued assembling data for a floristic treatment of the papilionate legumes of Mexico. In connection with this project Dr. Rudd studied at the New York Botanical Garden, the Chicago Natural History Museum, the University of California at Los Angeles, the Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, the California Academy of Sciences, the University of California at Berkeley, and Stanford University. She gave a paper on Ormosia at the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at Chicago.
Associate curator Richard S. Cowan continued his monographic studies of the genus Swartzia. In connection with his floristic review of the Rutaceae for the Flora of the Guayana Highland he prepared

<<<Page: 80>>>

a paper that included all the new species, new records, and notes based on the remainder of the collections of the family made by Dr. Bassett Maguire and his associates, and he revised his treatment of the Leguminosae of the same region to include recent collections. He presented a paper on the floral morphology of certain Rutaceae at the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at Chicago.
Associate curator John J. Wurdack, on joining the staff in February, commenced the preparation of a paper on the Melastomataceae for the Flora of Santa Catarina. Dr. Wurdack is also continuing the study of his collections-from the Guayana Highland of northern South America.
Grasses.—Head curator Jason R. Swallen continued his studies on the grasses of southern Brazil. Progress consisted of the identification of recent material collected by various botanists and further study of his own collections.
Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, continued her work on the comprehensive catalog of grass genera and species.
Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, continued his studies of the bamboos with the aid of a grant from the National Science Foundation. Under the title ‘The bamboos—Perspectives on Selected Aspects of the Bambusoideae,” a book-length manuscript of nearly 300 pages, illustrated by 88 figures, many of them original, was delivered to the Maria Moors Cabot Foundation of Harvard University. Its publication in the present calendar year is expected. The text and illustrations of the first part of this manuscript will serve as the basis for an introduction to the revision of the genera of the Bambusoideae currently under preparation for the new edition of Die Natiirlichen Pflanzenfamilien. A key to the 21 genera of bamboos under cultivation in the United States and Puerto Rico was prepared for inclusion in a bulletin on bamboo to be published shortly by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton made a study of certain ferns common in cultivation and in the wild that have been known under the generic name Rumohra; the decision was reached that Rumohra is properly considered monotypic, and that most of the ferns referred to it represent a new genus, to which the name Byrsopteris was assigned ; other species represent yet another genus, for which the name Polystichopsis is available. He continued with his studies on the type specimens of ferns, publishing papers during the year on Alsophila, Thelypteris, Blechnum, and Pleurosorus. He began also a study of the ferns of Cuba, for eventual publication in the Flora of Cuba by Leén and Alain. He spent some time in the study of phanerogams, especially in preparing a synopsis of the genus Solanum in Argentina and in work on the genus Columnea, of the Gesneriaceae.

<<<Page: 81>>>

In August, Mr. Morton spent 16 days in field work in boreal Canada, visiting the spruce forest of Quebec and Ontario and the subarctic regions around James Bay. Botanical collections, numbering 1,395 specimens, were made for the Museum. In September, he spent two weeks in the high Sierra Nevada Mountains in California, where additional botanical collections, not yet accessioned, were made.
Cryptogams.— Acting curator Mason E. Hale continued work on a monographie revision of the lichen genus Parmelia in the Western Hemisphere. A majority of the available type specimens from tropical America were examined, Standley’s Central American material was annotated, and a complete index of all taxa described from the Americas was prepared. Dr. Hale spent five weeks in March and April collecting Parmelia specimens in southern Mexico, an area especially rich in this genus. Another trip was made to the Farlow Herbarium of Harvard University for library and herbarium studies. Work continued on the long term project of writing a lichen flora of the eastern United States. Dr. Hale completed the manuscript for an introductory text in lichenology, which will be published by the Smithsonian Institution. At the LX International Botanical Congress at Montreal, Dr. Hale delivered a paper on “Systematics of the Parmelia trichotera Group in North America.”
Associate curator Paul Conger carried forward work on research projects in progress, including a study of the diatoms of Chincoteague Bay, a revision of the genus Grammatophora, and an analysis of diatom samples of the British, Australian, and New Zealand Antarctic Expedition. He also completed analysis of samples of diatoms from four small lakes at the head of Ungava Bay, Canada, which contained over 400 species. This information will eventually be assembled with pertinent ecological data into a floristic list of the diatoms of this interesting area.
Assistant curator Robert R. Ireland continued his studies of the moss flora of Virginia. Two field trips were made to the Shenandoah National Park. He completed a manuscript on the distribution of Pogonatum alpinum, an arctic-alpine moss occurring in the southern Appalachian Mountains.
Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. José Cuatrecasas continued his research on the flora of Colombia under a grant from the National Science Foundation. He has been working on a revision of the Colombian Compositae, a group of approximately 800 species. Padre Luis Camargo revised the Colombian species of Berberis under a grant from the Guggenheim Foundation. Dr. Kittie F. Parker continued her research on the western flora, especially Compositae. Dr. Oscar Tovar, of the University of San Marcos, Lima, Peru, has been working at the herbarium since September on

<<<Page: 82>>>

the grasses of the Central Andes, under a grant from the Guggenheim Foundation. Joyce W. Vickery, of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Sydney, Australia, spent two weeks in September identifying grasses which are introduced in Australia. Dennis Anderson, of the Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa, spent a week during July studying the specimens of Phalaris in preparation of a revision of the genus. Tuguo Tateoka, National Institute of Genetics, Misima, Japan, and Taka Tateoka spent two weeks in February gathering material for cytological study at the Institut Botanique, Montreal.
Others who have visited the department, usually to consult the collections of the National Herbarium in connection with their research projects, were:
Rogers MeVaugh and John I. Mickel, University of Michigan; Robert E. Woodson, Jr., Missouri Botanical Garden; Thomas R. Soderstrom, Yale University; Peter Raven, University of California at Los Angeles; Clair W. Brown, Louisiana State University; Donovan 8. Correll, Texas Research Foundation; David L. Emory, Mercersburg Academy; Clyde F. Reed, Baltimore; Edith Seamman, Rolla M. Tryon and Mrs. Tryon, E. G. Worthley, Reed C. Rollins, and William L. Dawson, Harvard University; Ira L. Wiggins, Stanford University; Lewis Anderson, Duke University; Floyd Brown, Austin Peay State College, Clarksville, Tenn.; Margaret Fulford and Jane Taylor, University of Cincinnati; S. Kk. Harris, Boston University; A. W. Herre, Santa Cruz, Calif.; Rudolf Schuster, University of Massachusetts; Robert Holmes, Scripps Institution of Oceanography; Louis de Lisle, University of Arizona; and Gerald Thorne, University of Wisconsin.
The IX International Botanical Congress, held in Montreal, attracted an unusual number of foreign visitors who stopped at the Smithsonian Institution on their way to or from the Congress. Among them were:
Arturo Burkart, Instituto de Botdnica Darwinién, San Isidro, Argentina; R. A. Dyer, National Herbarium, Division of Botany, Pretoria, South Africa; Ernesto Foldats, Instituto Botanieo, Caracas, Venezuela; Frances M. Jarrett, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England; Olov Hedberg, Institute of Systematic Botany, Uppsala, Sweden; Juan Hunziker, Instituto de Botdniea, Ministerio de Agricultura, Buenos Aires, Argentina; José Jiménez A., Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominiean Republic; Siro Kitamura, Kyoto University, Japan; A. J. G. H. Kostermans, Herbarium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indonesia; Tetsuo Koyama, Botanical Institute, University of Tokyo, Japan; J. Léonard, Université de Bruxelles, Belgium; Shigeru Miki, Osaka City University, Osaka, Japan; A. E. Porsild, National Museum of Canada, Ottawa; Marcel Raymond, Montreal Botanieal Garden, Montreal; Olof Selling, Riksmuseum, Stockholm, Sweden; R. Weibel, Conservatoire Botanique, Geneva, Switzerland; Lorenzo R. Parodi, Facultad Agronomia, University of Buenos Aires; Efraim Hernandez, Mexico City; Helen Blackler, St. Andrews, Scotland; Helmut Gams, University of Innsbruck, Austria; and Fritz Mattick, Botanical Museum, Berlin, Germany.
Other Government departments, particularly the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture, continued to use the

<<<Page: 83>>>

National Herbarium in connection with the work of their staff members.
Geology
Mr. Lawrence B. Isham, illustrator for the department, continued his outstanding services to the staff geologists by preparing numerous drawings, plates, and labels.
Mineralogy and petrology.—Curator George Switzer completed his annual review of the diamond industry, and with Roy 8. Clarke, Jr., completed work on a reexamination of the rare mineral hambergite. In addition, he continued his studies on a long-term research project dealing with the sulfates and related minerals. In August Dr. Switzer examined major mineral collections in England, France, and Austria. During the year he addressed mineralogical societies in Des Moines, Towa, and Detroit, Mich.
Associate curator Paul E. Desautels completed descriptions of unusual multiform fluorite crystals and of the rare mineral legrandite, both from Mexico, and continued work on a mineralized vein at Centreville, Va., and on the lead oxychloride minerals of Laurium, Greece. In early June he traveled to southern Ilhnois and Kentucky, visiting mines in these areas in order to study mineral occurrences and obtain specimens.
Roy S. Clarke, Jr., chemist in the division, completed an analysis of the only tektite known from Martha’s Vineyard, Mass., and analyses of the rare mineral hambergite from California and Madagascar and of legrandite from Mexico. He is continuing work on a long-range study of the solubility of calcium borate minerals.
Associate curator E. P. Henderson completed articles on tektites and meteorites for the McGraw-Hill ‘Encyclopedia of Science and Technology.” In addition, he continued work on several long-term projects, including a study of hexahedrites and metallic inclusions in iron meteorites. Accompanied by Grover Moreland, head of the museum lapidary shop, Mr. Henderson visited the Battelle Metallurgical Laboratory in Columbus, Ohio, to study sectioning techniques applied to meteorites.
Between the end of January and the middle of June Mr. Henderson made an extended trip around the world in pursuance of his studies of meteorites and tektites. Nearly two months were spent in Manila, Philippine Islands, studying the tektite collection of Dr. H. Otley Beyer, perhaps the largest such privately owned collection in the world. Subsequently, Mr. Henderson visited 15 institutions in 10 different countries of Asia and Europe; these visits put him in touch with many specialists on meteorites and tektites and strengthened cooperative relationships between their institutions and the Museum.

<<<Page: 84>>>

Patewntolngy i+ the sebeatlfie weds, throwgh femalle of he Mite af geshugiral period. By *
Mural at the entrance of the new hall of fossil fishes and amphibians compares graphically the age of man with the vastness of geologic time.
Vertebrate paleontology.—Curator C. Lewis Gazin has continued his investigation of the lower Eocene mammalian faunas of the Knight formation. For the various faunas involved he has completed study of materials representing 7 of the 13 orders of mammals then extant, including the highly diversified insectivores, primates, rodents, and carnivores. The Knight investigation is supplemental to an earlier report published in 1952 and is based on later, more extensive collections from a variety of localities representing successive horizons in the lower Eocene, the earliest of which had not been reported previously from southwestern Wyoming. Dr. Gazin completed a study of the relationships of Apheliscus and Phenacodaptes, genera of Eocene and Paleocene mammals that he has demonstrated belong in the same phyletic line and are related to the pantolestid insectivores.
563136—60——6

<<<Page: 85>>>

Fieldwork by Dr. Gazin, assisted by Franklin L. Pearce, chief of the laboratory of vertebrate paleontology, was carried on in the Eocene of southwestern Wyoming during the summer of 1959. <A remarkably good collection of the remains of relatively small mammals was obtained from the middle Eocene Bridger formation, adding to the collections of the Museum materials pertinent to the curator’s
cor b pryeedeely applies we the Desean tariie mene eatalioheal ome the wd as tow wasuleans Tare of
Sexe she th petted ihe find bat ag siren Heepalane emerge.
The Arthrodire, whose fossil skull appears at the left, lived in the Devonian seas that covered the middle of the North American continent some 300 million years ago. This joint-necked predator is among the exhibits in the newly opened hall of fossil fishes and amphibians.
studies of the early Tertiary mammals of the Rocky Mountain region. The geologists were also successful in obtaining additional fossil mammal materials from lower Eocene horizons of the Knight formation in the vicinity of Bitter Creek and Big Piney, Wyo.
Pursuant to his research, Dr. Gazin visited Princeton University, the American Museum of Natural History, Yale University, Amherst College, and the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard for study and comparison of materials, particularly of the rather varied carnivore fauna of the Knight formation. In April Dr. Gazin left for Europe to study early Tertiary mammals in certain of the leading museums of France, Switzerland, West Germany, Austria, Belgium, and England, and to attend the International Geological Congress to be held in Copenhagen in August.

<<<Page: 86>>>

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Ha
Although heavily occupied with matters pertaining to the preparation and installation of fossil fish, amphibian, and reptile exhibits, associate curator David H. Dunkle made excellent progress in his continuing study on the Mesozoic origins of living orders of ray-finned fishes. With the help of interne David Schulz and museum aide John Gassaway, a number of skulls of amioid and pycnodontid fishes from the
Fossil fishes from the Age of Reptiles (left) and others from the Age of Mammals (right). This hall is the first to be completed of the five paleontology halls now undergoing reconstruction.
Jurassic of Cuba were sectioned serially, enlarged projections drawn, and two wax reproductions completed. In addition, through courtesies extended by the American Museum of Natural History, photoeraphs of two rare specimens of a marine Jurassic amiid, Liodesmus, were obtained from Germany, permitting completion of a report on a related fish from the upper Cretaceous of North America. The preparation, drawing, and study of three specimens of a lower Cretaceous elopid fish from Texas were also pursued to an advanced stage of development for publication. This material, originally submitted for examination by Texas Christian University, marks the oldest recognized member of the tarpon family from the United States. Associate curator Nicholas Hotton mr began the study of fossil amphibian and reptile material collected in Permian beds of Kansas that have hitherto been thought nearly barren of vertebrate fossils.

<<<Page: 87>>>

The fauna appears to be almost entirely new, and Dr. Hotton and museum aide John Gassaway made a field trip in May and June to collect more of this material and to try to trace vertebrate-bearing strata into the better known and more productive beds of Oklahoma and Texas. <A further aim of this trip was the general augmentation of the Museum’s collection of Permian amphibians and reptiles. In
A swamp-dwelling reptile, Diadectes was one of the early plant eaters and lived in the Permian Age, 180-200 million years ago.
company with Dr. Ellis Yochelson and Mr. Henry Berryhill, of the U.S. Geological Survey, Dr. Hotton also took part in a field trip to outcrops of the Dunkard series (Permian) in Ohio to collect vertebrate and other fossils and to study the beds from the point of view of paleoecology. In March Dr. Hotton studied fossil reptiles at the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Several field trips have added fine study material to the collections, and although it is too soon to report some of the results, substantial progress can be reported in the Glass Mountains studies. Research assistant Richard E. Grant reports the completion of about 800 pages of manuseript covering the Rhynchonelloidea and part of the Spiriferoidea,

<<<Page: 88>>>

both large groups. Included are about 160 species. Head curator G. A. Cooper is describing the Productoidea, the largest single group in the collection. He has described about 60 species and has amassed over 400 pages of manuscript. The number of species described thus far by Cooper and Grant, 220 species, is estimated at not quite half the total represented in this prolific fauna.
These fossil triassic amphibians, Buettneria perfecta, were probably trapped in a pool that dried up some 175 million years ago.
In July, Drs. Cooper and Grant went to the Glass Mountains of Texas and there met Messrs. John Skinner and Garner Wilde of the Humble Oil Company, Drs. Charles and J. P. Ross from Yale University, Mr. Richard Moyle from the University of Iowa, and others for a field conference on the stratigraphy of the Glass Mountains. About a week was spent in the region, primarily studying and arguing about difficult problems. Collections were made at a few new localities. After the conference Cooper and Grant visited a Permian locality in the Chinati Mountains and then went to Van Horn, Tex., where they were joined by Dr. Francis G. Stehli from the Pan American Petroleum Company. North of Van Horn the party collected fossils

<<<Page: 89>>>

on the old Corn Ranch at the foot of the Sierra Diablo near Victorio Peak, a region from which all parties had been barred for years. But Mr. Coates, foreman of the ranch, kindly helped in many ways, especially by the loan of a jeep to get large blocks out of the rough country. Over 30 blocks were collected at this locality and then the party moved on to the Guadalupe Mountains, where blocks were taken at a few places. The last stop of the trip was at White City and the Carlsbad Caverns, where collections were made from the Capitan limestone at several places. In early August the party returned to Washington. In the first week of May, Drs. Cooper and Grant visited a few collecting places for Pennsylvanian fossils in the vicinity of Jacksboro, Tex., as an incident to the packing for the Museum of portions of the Renfro fossil collection.
Associate curator Richard S. Boardman completed his revision of the Ordovician bryozoan genera Batostoma, Anaphragma and Amplexopora, a paper which redefines these genera on the basis of new thin sections of the type species, supplemented by a restudy of all related species in the Museum collections. He has started a study and revision of the Paleozoic trepostomatous bryozoans. This will involve resectioning all types and the study of additional species. A third project, on the rhomboporoid Bryozoa of the Hamilton group of New York, is farther advanced. It involves about 15 species and will require the sectioning of many specimens and the restudy of all described material. Dr. Boardman left in June for Great Britain, Norway, and Sweden, where he will study and collect from Ordovician and Silurian rocks. Although primarily interested in bryozoans, he expects to collect many other types of fossils, especially corals on the Island of Gotland, Sweden.
Associate curator Porter M. Kier reports considerable progress on his monograph of the cassiduloid echinoids. His visit to Europe in June will provide the information on type specimens needed to bring this work to completion. During the year Dr. Kier spent many hours laboriously cleaning the amazing echinoids from the Mississippian of Belgium loaned by the Abbey at Maredsous, and from other places such as Harvard University and the University of Liége. These echinoids are amazing for their large size, some of them being a foot, or nearly so, in diameter. He cleans them by grinding away the hard black limestone in which they are enclosed. The echinoid ossicles are white, and consequently, except for the time involved, it is not difficult to separate echinoid and limestone. Dr. Kier also extended a project on the Ocala limestone echinoids collected in Florida, a study just getting underway.
In October Dr. Kier joined Dr. Norman Sohl, of the U.S. Geological

<<<Page: 90>>>

Survey, on a collecting trip along the Chattahoochee River in Alabama. The river is being dammed and many collecting localities will be lost to science by submergence. More than 1,800 specimens of fossil echinoids were collected. During the year he made several other trips to study echinoids: to Philadelphia with Mr. Henry B. Roberts to the Wagner Free Institute of Science and the Academy of Natural Sciences, to the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard, and to the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore.
Associate curator Richard Cifelli is working on three projects. The first is an examination of Streblus becacarrii (Linné) to make sure of the internal structure, which has been misinterpreted, and to determine the morphological limits of the species. He is using thin sections and will construct clay models in order to interpret the structure. Another of his projects is a study of the seasonal variation of pelagic Foraminifera between Woods Hole and Bermuda. Plankton hauls are being taken from 15 stations once each season along a traverse from Woods Hole to Bermuda, the species identified, the number of specimens of each species counted, and the distributions of species plotted and compared with oceanic data made available by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. Dr. Cifelli’s third project is a study, just developing, of the Foraminifera from the Stockade Beaver shale (upper Jurassic) from the western interior of the United States. In connection with the plankton project, he collected samples of pelagic Foraminifera on a cruise out of Woods Hole to Bermuda in August. In June he joined Dr. Ralph Imlay, of the U.S. Geological Survey, to collect Jurassic Foraminifera in Idaho and Colorado.
Erle G. Kauffman joined the staff as assistant curator June 15, 1960. He has in progress research on Cretaceous pelecypods.
Museum aide Henry B. Roberts made a study of the fossil decapod crustaceans from the Marshall Islands, a project of particular interest because it is the first report of such fossils in the area. Another project is to describe the new species of fossil crabs in the collections of the Museum. For several years Geological Survey parties have brought in fossil crabs, and specimens have also been obtained from other sources. Some fine new species appear in the collections which Mr. Roberts is planning to describe. In this connection he visited Philadelphia in January to study fossil crabs at the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Research associate C. Wythe Cooke is continuing his studies on the Mesozoic and Tertiary Echinoidea, and Dr. R. S. Bassler, research associate, is continuing his study of leperditiid ostracodes, which should soon be completed. Dr. Arthur J. Boucot was appointed research associate in May for eight months while collecting and studying in Kurope.

<<<Page: 91>>>

Research by visiting investigators.—Among those utilizing the materials in vertebrate paleontology were:
Barry Cox, King’s College, London; Yota Haneda, Yokosuka City Museum, Kurihama, Japan; R. V. Shah, Baroda University, Bombay, India; Georges Vandebroek, University of Louvain, Belgium; Walter Auffenberg, University of Florida; Craig Black, Carnegie Museum; E. H. Colbert, American Museum of Natural History; Robert DeMar, University of Chicago; Eric Erickson, Harvard University; Richard Estes, University of California; Ted Galusha, Frick Laboratory, American Museum of Natural History; Coleman Goin, University of Florida; Jean Hough, Long Island University; H. J. Jerison, Antioch College; John Lanee, University of Arizona; Wann Langston, National Museum of Canada; G. Edward Lewis, U.S. Geological Survey, Denver; Paul McGrew, University of Wyoming; Bryan Patterson, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University; H. P. Roelig, Columbia University; A. S. Romer, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University; H. J. Sawin, University of Delaware; Bobb Schaeffer, American Museum of Natural History; E. L. Simons, University of Pennsylvania; G. G. Simpson, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University; Leigh Van Valen, American Museum of Natural History; and Walter Wheeler, University of North Carolina.
Among American and foreign visitors using the invertebrate fossil collections were:
W. M. Furnish and Richard Moyle, University of Iowa; R. C. Moore, University of Kansas; Norman D. Newell, American Museum of Natural History; Roger Batten, University of Wisconsin; Harry B. Whittington, Museum of Comparative Zoology; June R. P. Phillips Ross, Yale University; Arturo Amos, University of Buenos Aires, Argentina, who came to the Museum as a Guggenheim Fellow last September and who plans to stay through July; A. J. Rowell, University of Nottingham, England, who has spent some months here working on brachiopods for the Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology; Shéshiré Hanzawa, Tohoku Imperial University, Sendai, Japan; and Estaban Boltovskoy, Departmento de Oceangrafia, Buenos Aires.
Museum of History and Technology
Research of staff members of the Museum of History and Technology is necessarily focused on areas that contribute to the development of exhibits for the new building. Nevertheless research projects that will lead to publication are in progress, and reports of a number that have been completed are published in Bulletin 218, ‘‘Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology, Papers 1-11” (for a full list of the subjects treated, see p. 97).
Science and Technology
Physical sciences.—Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, head curator, completed for publication research projects on the development of scientific instruments for the recording of meteorological data and for oceanographic sounding. He is continuing work on similar projects concerning the development of chemistry and electrochemistry. Dr.

<<<Page: 92>>>

Multhauf read a paper on the research museum of physical science at the annual meeting of the American Association of Museums in May. His paper on mine pumping in Agricola’s time and after was published as part of Museum Bulletin 218. He continues to serve on the councils of the History of Science Society and the Society for the History of Technology.
Mechanical and civil engineering.—Curator Kugene S. Ferguson completed his history of kinematics of mechanism, a study in which the academic and practical approach to the problems of mechanism design are traced from the time of James Watt, in the late 18th century, to the modern period. A summary of the results of the study was presented as a paper before the annual meeting of the American Society for Engineering Education. His paper on John Ericsson is in press. He is now engaged in the preparation of a book-length study of American technology in the 19th century. Mr. Ferguson continues to serve as a member of the museum committee of the Society for the History of Technology.
Edwin A. Battison, associate curator, is continuing his studies of the development of the low-cost watch in this country. His paper on the Auburndale Watch Company was published as part of Museum Bulletin 218. He was re-elected to the museum committee of the National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors, of which he is a fellow.
A study of the development of subaqueous bridge foundations, completed by associate curator Robert M. Vogel, outlines historically the various means employed to effect a solid bearing in water for bridge works. There was previously no comprehensive account of this important subject. Mr. Vogel is now engaged in a study of the documentation of historic bridges. His study of the elevator systems of the Eiffel Tower is in press.
Transportation.—The needs of new model construction have made desirable a continuous research program combined with the preparation of scaled plans. Curator Howard I. Chapelle read page proofs of his catalog of the watercraft collection and completed articles on Chesapeake Bay bugeye, the New Haven Sharpie-type boat, and several shorter pieces. His paper on the original steamship Savannah is scheduled for publication by the Museum.
He was designated advisor to the United States delegation to the Third Caribbean Fisheries Seminar at St. Martin, Netherlands Antilles, July 3 to 8, 1959, by the Department of State, and has been appoimted a member of the advisory committee of the Maritime Museum of Canada, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
John H. White, Jr., assistant curator, has in progress an interesting study of the activities of the early mid-western locomotive builders,

<<<Page: 93>>>

a subject yet to be fully explored, and another on the Bissell safety truck for locomotives. He is also engaged in studies of two historic railroad subjects: the College Hill Railroad (Cincinnati) and President Lincoln’s private railroad car.
Electricity.— Acting curator W. James King completed three of five sections of his detailed monograph on the development of electrical technology in the 19th century. They are scheduled for publication by the Museum. He is engaged in organizing for research use the extensive Clark collection of radio materials received this year.
Medical sciences.—Dr. John B. Blake, curator, saw his book “Public Health in the Town of Boston, 1630-1822”; through the final stages of publication by the Harvard University Press. He has continued research in dental history, particularly with a view to improved documentation of study and exhibit specimens in the collections, and is working on a study of public health in the United States in the period 1900-1950. In April and May Dr. Blake studied collections and exhibit techniques in the major medical-historical museums of western Kurope. He continues to serve as secretary-treasurer of the American Association for the History of Medicine.
Associate curator Sami K. Hamarneh, who joined the staff on September 24, 1959, has continued his studies on Abu-al-Qasim al-Zahrawi (Abulcasis), one of the outstanding physicians of the Arabic period, with particular reference to pharmaceutical aspects of his writings. His paper on al-Zahrawi’s surgical treatise is being published by the Museum.
Research by outside investigators.—Many persons visit the marine transportation section, including staff members of the National Geographic Society with regard to ship pictures, plans, descriptions, and details. Victor Searcher consulted the section of land transportation in connection with his study of President Lincoln’s inaugural journey. Among other visitors who consulted the collections of the department of science and technology were the following:
F. G. Williams and C. E. Smart, Gurley Instrument Co., Troy, N.Y.; John
Kusner, Washington, D.C.; G. R. Thompson and Paul Scheips, U.S. Army Signal Corps, Historical Section; and John N. Blythe, U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office.
Arts and Manufactures
Textiles.— Acting curator Grace L. Rogers continued her investigation of the samplers in the Museum collection in preparation for a history and catalog. Her paper on the Scholfield carding machine appeared in Museum Bulletin 218, and her history of the sewing machine is being reviewed in preparation for publication by the

<<<Page: 94>>>

Museum. In July 1959 Miss Rogers became echibonten adviser of the Encyclopedia Britannica for textiles.
Junior curator Nancy Vaughan initiated research into early machine-made nets. Although net laces were made by machine as early as the late 18th century, relatively little published information on this subject is available. In general works on lace, costume, and decorative textiles, no distinction is made between the early types and the more common mid-19th century machine-made nets.
Sewing machine exhibit, prepared for hall of textiles in new Museum of
History and Technology, is temporarily displayed in Arts and Industries building.
Mr. Milton Eisler, who began work as a physical science technician in the division’s textile laboratory in March, is engaged in extensive research into the cleaning and preservation of all types of textile materials, including such subjects as stabilizing fragile fabrics for safe handling, developing safe cleaning techniques for each of the various natural fibers, investigating methods of accelerated aging to determine the effects of present techniques, and identifying adhesives appropriate to mounting fragile textiles.
Ceramics and glass.—Several research projects in progress by acting curator Paul V. Gardner are: studies of Minton pate-sur-pate in the Alfred Duane Pell collection; the Charles X Sévres Porcelain Cabinet; Ador, court goldsmith to Snidkanine the Great; and English 18th-century enamels, renaissance jewelry, and ancient glass in the John Gellatly collection. Mr. Gardner spent from January 11 to February 26 in Europe as a consultant for the Department of State and in pursuing his research projects. In connection with his official

<<<Page: 95>>>

assignment he carried out an inventory of the Embassy residence in Prague, Czechoslovakia, that involved about 1,200 items of ceramics, glass, and other decorative art objects. In addition, a number of museums and factories in Czechoslovakia, Austria, Italy, Germany, Holland, France, and England were visited to examine unusual specimens and methodologies in the manufacture of glass and ceramics.
Graphic arts.—An article by curator Jacob Kainen, ‘‘Why Bewick Succeeded, a Note in the History of Wood Engraving,”
appeared in Museum Bulletin 218, ‘Contributions from the Mu-
Patent models of Greenough, Bean, and Corliss, 1842-43, part of a threedimensional history of the early development of the sewing machine.
The first American sewing machines to receive patents continued in the tradition of trying to imitate the familiar operation of hand sewing. About a decade earlier Walter Hunt had touched upon the solution to practical machine sewing with his lock stitch, but he failed to exploit his invention and the idea went unnoticed.

<<<Page: 96>>>

seum of History and Technology.” His monograph of John Baptist Jackson (1700?-1780?), an English artist who pioneered in color printing from wood blocks, is in press. Mr. Kainen’s work on the Dutch engraver Hendrick Goltzius (1558-1617) continued, its main purpose being to examine some phases of Goltzius’ style.
Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator, now resigned, continued research on his study of Henry Fitz, Jr., who may have made daguerreotype portraits as early as 1839; some such portraits are included in the national collection.
Pooling of the basic patents of Elias Howe, John Bachelder, Isaac Singer, and P. B. Wilson led to the manufacture of a practical sewing machine.
By the middle of the 19th Century % became obvious that no individual inventor was able to successful sewing machine without # upon the patent of andther result. the most important patent holders pooled they patents in a trast known as
the Sewing Machine Combination. Participating s Howe, Grover & Baker, the Singer Co. and Wheeler & Wilson. Any manufacturer desiting to use any or all of these patents had to
were E ELIAS HOWE
pay the Combination a royalty ef $15 per machine.

<<<Page: 97>>>

Assistant curator Fuller O. Griffith is in the final stages of his study and illustrated catalog of the lithographs of Childe Hassam (1859— 1935), which have been unwarrantably neglected, although they probably constitute his most original body of work. This catalog will be the first to be prepared on the lithographs of this well-known American artist.
Industrial cooperation.—Head curator Philip W. Bishop completed his contribution to ‘Histoire Générale des Techniques,” to be published in 1960 or 1961, by Presses Universitaires de France and he continued his research on the history of the development of manu-
Below: Embroiderers, button holers, bobbin winders, tuckers, and other special attachments began to appear in the early 1850's. Two early sewing machine motors and a fan attachment to keep the seamstress cool (right) are also exhibited. Opposite: High cost of machines produced by the Sewing Machine Combination led to development of less expensive hand machines. These and the other exhibits in the series are based on research done for a history and catalog, now in preparation, of the sewing machine collection.
RONBIN WINE fesievs ferred
Lured pars
braid
weet in 1859. Nuc oF this purpose were
similar in stracture and purpose, but turned the edge of the fabric beg stitched instead of stitching » special binding edge tn the work.

<<<Page: 98>>>

facturing techniques. His paper on the beginnings of cheap steel was published in Museum Bulletin 218. He is collaborating with Burton Faust, of the U.S. Patent Office, in connection with researches into the history of saltpetre mining and processing in the United States, and with Lawrence A. Johnson, of Syracuse, N.Y., who is exploring the history of the tools used in the preparation and cutting of the sugar loaf.
Dr. Charles O. Houston, Jr., associate curator, has begun preparation of a definitive chronology of innovation in the coal industry.
Agriculture and forest products.—Acting curator E. C. Kendall presented a paper on 18th-century American plows and their European origins at a meeting of the Agricultural History Society in Louisville, Ky. The study is based on the Museum’s collection of
Machines manufactured by licensed companies were very high-priced because of the = 1 rovalty on cach machine. This brought on a
wave of small hand-turned chain-stitch machines y which were mechanically poor but much cheaper 2 x : in price.
BBA, GUMS meh hii ot

<<<Page: 99>>>

early American plows and on the examination of plows in many collections in the northeast and middle Atlantic areas. Included in the paper is information on plows obtained from study of the actual implements in the course of a trip through western Europe several years ago. His paper on John Deere’s steel plow was published in Museum Bulletin 218.
Research by visiting investigators.—Visitors who utilized the materials of the department of arts and manufactures in connection with research projects included:
John Russell, art critic for the London Times; J. 8. G. Simmons, Oxford University Press; Gordon Hendricks, New York City; and Lawrence J. Riley, K & W Film Service Corporation.
Civil History
Substantial progress was made in research projects during the year by members of the department staff. Head curator Anthony N. B. Garvan completed three comparatively brief projects. A paper on his explorations of the theoretical impact of the camera and the calculating machine upon historical analysis was presented to the National Microfilm Association in April 1960, and is to be printed in the proceedings of the Association under the title, ‘‘Primitive Tools of Scientific Historical Analysis.” In a study that analyzes parallel symbols in furniture, painting, architecture, sculpture, coinage, and ceramics of the New England Puritans, some effort is made to compare the cause of the decline with that in a similar movement, i.e., 12th century Cistercian architecture. It is to be published in “Comparative Studies in Society and History” in October 1960. And in a study of the relation of cultural attitudes to landscape, paintings and photographs are given as evidence of the cultural limitations to American vision and ecological adaptation. This study will be published in 1960.
In addition, the head curator carried on the directorship of the Index of American Cultures. The second culture, Philadelphia, 1725 to 1775, was approximately 40 percent completed by the end of the year. This project is creating a file of historical materials drawn from historically valid original documents, together with photographs of objects produced in the culture area during the chronological period noted. In its compilation the techniques of the Human Relations Area File are being applied. Late in spring the Human Relations Area File was acquired for research use by the Smithsonian Institution staff, and has been placed temporarily under the supervision of the head curator.
Peter C. Welsh, associate curator, has completed a study of the Brandywine, an early flour milling center. This study establishes Wilmington not only as a flour milling center but also as an industrial

<<<Page: 100>>>

town in the late 18th century. He also undertook research on the manufacture of leather between 1850 and 1900, investigating the mechanization of the leather industry to determine if possible why tanning lagged so far behind other industry in the application of machinery to production. A somewhat different study of an important early national symbol—Major Jack Downing in political caricature—was undertaken in spring of 1960.
Arlene Krimgold, junior curator, completed a study of the Muslim Institution of Waqf. She also began a study of native American flora and fauna adapted for European use during the early 17th century.
Political history.—Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, curator, continued his editorial annotation of all significant documents bearing on Bacon’s Rebellion in Virginia in 1676 and 1677. His paper on the effect of Bacon’s rebellion on the legislative, executive, and judicial relationships between England and the colony of Virginia is scheduled for publication by the Museum. A larger long-range project is his investigation of the legal and moral justification for the dispossessing of the Indians. He is analyzing the arguments of the English for American expansion in North America and the consequences of the dispossession of the Indians. More recently, Dr. Washburn has undertaken an investigation of the technique of American political campaigns, making an effort to correlate campaign techniques and descriptions of campaigns by contestants.
Associate curator Margaret B. Klapthor completed her catalog of presentation silver in the Museum and continued work on her catalog of the White House china in the collection.
Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator, continued preparation of his catalogs of the George Washington relics and of the Ralph E. Becker collection of Americana, part of which was recently received as a gift and part as a loan.
Assistant curator Anne W. Murray carried on the compilation of her catalog of the John Brenton Copp collection and also of her descriptive catalog of the Museum’s collection of Quaker costumes and accessories.
Emily M. Ross, junior curator, continued the work begun by museum aide James Channing on the Gustavus Vasa Fox catalog. In addition she commenced a study of General John A. Halderman, first U.S. Minister Resident and Consul General to Siam between 1880 and 1885.
Cultural history.—Acting curator C. Malcolm Watkins continued his study of the colonial ceramics of Jamestown, Va., and other sites. This study is an important work because it will throw great light on the ceramics used in the colonies through trade and local craftsmanship. He also completed his portion of the Marlborough investigation
563136—60-——7

<<<Page: 101>>>

and finished his report on the artifacts found at the site of the now vanished town in Stafford County. His paper on 17th-century North Devon pottery is in press.
John Shortridge, associate curator, continued his catalog of the musical collection and his study of the mechanics of harpsichord plucking action. His study of Italian harpsichord building is in press, with publication scheduled for 1960.
Mr. Shortridge initiated a series of musical programs in which the playing of ancient musical instruments in the collection was demonstrated by volunteer musicians. The first program, June 30, 1959, was devoted to 15th century classical and instrumental music for recorders, viols, and a portative organ. Following this initial success, a program on January 18 presented a repertoire of 17th-century music featuring three recently restored keyboard instruments. Another, on March 1, featured chamber music of the 18th century and used a onekeyed flute by Grenser of Dresden, about 1770, a viola d’amore by Georg Aman of Augsburg, 1704, and a restored harpsichord dated 1694.
Associate curator Rodris Roth read proof on her paper dealing with tea drinking in 18th-century America. She continued work on her study of American household floor coverings of that period; evidence is being gathered from prints, paintings, newspapers, diaries, and other accounts of the period in order to establish a more precise interpretation. She has also undertaken a study of fireplace equipment used in 18th-century America.
Assistant curator John N. Pearce undertook an account of an unpublished Seymour desk and in addition is bringing to conclusion his study of two-handled paneled bowls in New York, a study which he had begun at Winterthur Museum in 1957. For the Encylopedia of World Art, Mr. Pearce has engaged to write on cities of the United States an article that describes in a brief and systematic fashion the major American centers with notes on their topographical and historical features and monuments.
The report of research associate Ivor Noel Hume on the excavations at Rosewell in Gloucester County, Va., was accepted for publication by the Museum. It deals with an archeologically controlled excavation of the site involving laboratory analysis and restoration of artifacts, and contains descriptions of artifacts, with photographs and reconstruction drawings, and drawings of maps of excavations.
Philately and postal history.—Acting curator George T. Turner continued his research on revenue stamps of the United States and his investigation of John W. Klein, the man who published the first philatelic work in America. He gave several talks during the year on the Museum stamp collection and on various aspects of philately.

<<<Page: 102>>>

Francis J. McCall, associate curator, continued his analysis of the postal history of the Federation of Malaya and his study of the Sandwich Islands mail between 1820 and 1875, basing most of this study on the file of original mission correspondence between individuals in the Hawaiian Islands and on the mainland, now in the Houghton Library, Harvard University.
Assistant curator Carl H. Scheele began an investigation of the ownership, operation, and contracts of the Pony Express in the years 1860 and 1861.
Numismatics.—Acting curator Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli completed a brief survey of United States gold coins based on the Museum’s collection. He continued work on his biographical dictionary of American medalists and engravers and his study of the ancient coins of northern Greece.
Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator, continued her study of Italian coins of the 19th and 20th century and gold coins of the world since 1800. An article on the coinages of Germany and the German States was prepared for a special publication to include over 380 types. An historical account will center on the financial aspects of modern gold coinages. Her study of the tetartemorion of Rhegium, an unpublished denomination, proved this to be an important link for establishing a clear picture of the output of small denominations in Rhegium during the 5th century, B.C. <A new project in connection with modern medallic art is concerned with the study of the engravers of coins and medals for Peter the Great. It draws on the material available in the Willis H. du Pont collection of Russian coins and medals formerly owned by the Grand Duke Georgii Mikhailovich, recently received by the museum. A catalog of the collection is planned.
Research by visiting investigators.—Among numerous visitors who consulted the collections of the department of civil history may be mentioned:
Erich Boehringer, German Archeological Institute, Berlin; Herbert Cahn, Basel, Switzerland; Mrs. John C. L. Adams; Major Edward F. Davis; Alfred L. Bush; George Godin; James J. Matejka; Ernest Mayers; Frank E. Patterson; George Brett; James T. Ryan; Mrs. Ben Maxwell; F. M. Cowen; C. R. Vanderpool; O. L. Harvey; Col. R. B. Truett; John A. Dalber; Col. Carl J. Steig; Joanne Fitzgerald; Perry Sapperstein; and Sister Fidelma.
Armed Forces History
Military history.—Acting curator Edgar M. Howell read page proof on his study on the Hermann Stieffel collection of Indian War paintings, scheduled for publication in July 1960 as Paper 12 in

<<<Page: 103>>>

Museum Bulletin 225. A second study on the Steiffel paintings has been accepted for publication by American Heritage. Mr. Howell also completed, in conjunction with Lt. Col. J. Duncan Campbell, consultant to the department, the draft of a comprehensive, descriptive and critical catalog of American military insignia in the national collections. Mr. Howell completed research and initiated writing of a paper on the war paintings of Harvey Dunn. This is the first of a series to be prepared on the official combat artists of World War I. In conjunction with Lt. Col. Campbell he initiated archeological investigation of three War of 1812 fort sites at Sackets Harbor, N.Y. A number of significant specimens were recovered and comprehensive plans were made for continuing investigation.
Assistant curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., in conjunction with his preparation of the script for the hall of ordnance, added considerable data to the file he is compiling for a catalog of the arms collection. These data include patent papers and abstracts of documents from the records of the Chief of Ordnance, in the National Archives. Documentation was added to the history of the Hall rifle previously prepared by Mr. Goins.
Museum aide Donald Kloster is completing his paper on the American usage and changes in the floral motif ‘“Rosemaling” as brought to the United States by Norwegian immigrants.
Naval history.—Mendel L. Peterson, head curator of the department, participated in an expedition exploring the sunken city of Port Royal in Jamaica, in collaboration with the National Geographic Society and Mr. Edwin A. Link. A collection of several hundred specimens dating from the late 17th century was assembled and is now in the Institute of Jamaica in Kingston. Mr. Peterson continued his study of the marking and decoration of muzzle-loading cannon. Completion of the project depends on the photographing and study of specimens in the collections of Europe and Latin America.
Associate curator Philip K. Lundeberg assumed responsibility for a study of the development of United States naval vessels; it is designed to interpret the division’s expanding collections of American warship models and half-models. Dr. Lundeberg is one of several co-authors of a comprehensive history of the United States and world sea power, entitled ‘Sea Power,” edited by E. B. Potter and Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz. As part of another collaborative effort, Dr. Lundeberg began research on Secretaries of the Navy who served during the era of the New Navy, 1881-1897. Special attention is being given to the role of the Secretaries in formulating plans for vessels of the famous ‘‘White Squadron,” models of several of which are in the division’s collections.

<<<Page: 104>>>

Museum aide Alan B. Albright performed underwater exploration at Sackets Harbor, N.Y., on sites dating from the War of 1812, and studied preservation techniques used at the laboratories in Williamsburg. He also studied plastic imbedding techniques at the Armed Forces Medical Museum. |
Research by visiting investigators.—Assistance was provided to other government and private agencies throughout the year. Among organizations so assisted were the National Geographic Society and the division of naval history and the bureau of naval weapons of the Department of the Navy. Individuals who utilized the department’s collections in their research included:
Frederick P. Todd, Director of the Museum, United States Military Academy;
Colonel John Hamilton, Director of the Fort Ticonderoga Museum; and Captain Arthur Kennard, Assistant Master, Armouries, Tower of London.

<<<Page: 105>>>

Publications
The scientific publications of the United States National Museum continued under the editorship of John 8. Lea, assisted by Ernest E. Biebighauser, and Michael J. Walker.
In addition to the Annual Report, the Museum issued 28 publications based on research in the national collections. Of these, 4 were in the Bulletin series, 22 in the Proceedings series, and 2 were Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.
At the close of the year, 16 Proceedings papers and the following Bulletins were in press:
82. vol. 1, part 5. A monograph of the existing Crinoids, the Comatulids, suborders Oligophreta and Macrophraeta, by Austin Hobart Clark and Ailsa McGown Clark.
219. The National watercraft collection, by Howard I. Chapelle (publication scheduled for November 23, 1960). 220. Type specimens of amphibians and reptiles in the U.S. National Museum, by Doris M. Cochran. 221. Type specimens of birds in the United States National Museum, by Herbert G. Deignan. 222. John Baptist Jackson: His chiaroscuros and color woodcuts, by Jacob Kainen. 223. The parasitic weaverbirds, by Herbert Friedmann. 224, Robber flies of the world: The genera of the family Asilidae, by Frank M. Hull. 225. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 12-18, by members of the staff and others. Paper 12. Hermann Stieffel, soldier-artist of the West, by Edgar M. Howell (publication scheduled for July 8, 1960). Paper 13. North Devon pottery and its export to America in the 17th century, by C. Malcolm Watkins. Paper 14. Tea drinking in 18th century America: Its etiquette and equipage, by Rodris Roth. Paper 15. Italian harpsichord building in the 16th and 17th centuries, by John D. Shortridge. 226. Checklist of the birds of Thailand, by Herbert G. Deignan. 228. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 19—, by members of the staff and others. Paper 19. Elevator systems of the Hiffel Tower, 1889, by Robert M. Vogel.

<<<Page: 106>>>

Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 172. These, listed on pages 100 to 107, were distributed as follows:
PubliPubli-
Department cations Department cations AmGhropologye loo. cutee vs) eee 29 Civil History. .... . wir a es 4 BO GAMY erate, celia sien Roa valerie ee 40 Artsand Manufactures. .... 6 Gealosyiansas canes: Se sidenen 20 Armed Forces History. . ... . 1 ZOOlOsy™ =. ie Ba eases nl es 59 — Science and Technology. .... 13 otalicers.: tte cee: be Agia 7/7
Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1959 through June 1960
The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1959. Pp. vi+178, illustr., January 15, 1960.
202, vol. 2. Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands, by Leonard P. Schultz
and collaborators: Wilbert M. Chapman, Ernest A. Lachner, and Loren P. Woods. Pp. ix+ 488, figs. 91-132, pls. 75-123, May 11, 1960.
216, part 2. Ichneumon-flies of America north of Mexico: 2. Subfamilies Ephial-
217.
218.
tinae, Xoridinae, and Acaenitinae, by Henry and Marjorie Townes and
collaborators: G. Stuart Walley, Luella Walkley, Dale Habeck, and George
Townes. Pp. vii+676, 378 figs., June 24, 1960.
Birds of Anaktuvuk Pass, Kobuk, and Old Crow, by Laurence Irving. Pp.
viii+ 409, 36 figs., 13 pls., March 22, 1960.
Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 1-11,
by members of the staff and others. Pp. v+201, November 16, 1959.
Paper 1. The Scholfield wool-carding machines, by Grace L. Rogers. Pp. 1-14, 10 figs.
Paper 2. John Deere’s steel plow, by Edward C. Kendall. Pp. 15-25, 10 figs.
Paper 3. The beginnings of cheap steel, by Philip W. Bishop. Pp. 27-47, 2 figs.
Paper 4. The Auburndale Watch Company, by Edwin A. Battison. Pp. 49-68, 23 figs.
Paper 5. Development of the phonograph at Alexander Graham Bell’s Volta Laboratory, by Leslie J. Newville. Pp. 69-79, 8 figs.
Paper 6. On the origin of clockwork, perpetual motion devices, and the compass, by Derek J. de Solla Price. Pp. 81-112, 22 figs.
Paper 7. Mine pumping in Agricola’s time and later, by Robert P. Multhauf. Pp. 113-120, 8 figs.
Paper 8. The natural philosophy of William Gilbert and his predecessors, by W. James King. Pp. 121-139, 1 fig.
Paper 9. Conestoga wagons in Braddock’s campaign, 1755, by Don H. Berkebile. Pp. 141-153, 10 figs.
Paper 10. Old English patent medicines in America, by George B. Griffenhagen and James Harvey Young. Pp. 155-183, 16 figs.
Paper 11. Why Bewick suceeded: A note in the history of wood engraving, by Jacob Kainen. Pp. 185-201, 15 figs.

<<<Page: 107>>>

From VOLUME 35
Part 1. Supplemental notes on the American species of Passifloraceae with descriptions of new species, by Ellsworth P. Killip. Pp. ii+1-23, 11 pls., May 10, 1960.
From VOLUME 36
Part 1. A revision of the South American species of Parmelia determined by Lynge, by Mason E. Hale, Jr. Pp. 1-41, 5 pis., May 18, 1960.
PROCEEDINGS From VoiumeE 108 Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-v, 599-627, May 11, 1960. No. 3408. A revision of thebutterfly genera Theochila and Tatochila (Lepidoptera: Pieridae), by José Herrera and William D. Field. Pp. 467-514, 93 figs., July 24, 1959.
From Vouume 109
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-iii, 483-498, May 18, 1960.
No. 3412. Marine Mollusca of Point Barrow, Alaska, by Nettie MacGinitie. Pp. 59-208, 27 pls., September 18, 1959.
No. 3415. Biting midges of the genus Culicoides from Panama (Diptera: Heleidae), by Willis W. Wirth and Franklin S. Blanton. Pp. 237-482, 91 figs., July 29, 1959.
From VouumeE 110
No. 3416. Grasshoppers of the Mexicanus group, genus Melanoplus (Orthoptera: Acrididae), by Ashley B. Gurney and A. R. Brooks. Pp. 1-93, 18 figs., 5 pls., July 9, 1959.
No. 3417. A revision of American bats of the genera Huderma and Plecotus, by Charles O. Handley, Jr. Pp. 95-246, 27 figs., September 3, 1959.
No. 3418. A revision of the Apion subgenus Trichapion Wagner in the New World (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), by David G. Kissinger. Pp. 247-389, 19 figs., October 23, 1959.
No. 3419. A description and classification of the final instar larvae of the Ichneumonidae (Insecta: Hymenoptera), by J. R. T. Short. Pp. 391-511, 64 figs., October 23, 1959.
No. 3420. Mammals of northern Colombia, preliminary Report No. 8: Arboreal rice rats, a systematic revision of the subgenus Oecomys, genus Oryzomys, by Philip Hershkovitz. Pp. 513-568, 6 figs., 12 pls., February 24, 1960.
No. 3421. The rodent-infesting Anoplura (sucking lice) of Thailand, with remarks on some related species, by Phyllis T. Johnson. Pp. 569-598, 75 figs., November 10, 1959.
From VouvumeE 111
No. 3422. A new American genus of Cryptopid centipedes, with an annotated key to the Scolopendromorph genera from America north of Mexico, by Ralph E. Crabill, Jr. Pp. 1-15, 16 figs., January 27, 1960.
No. 3423. <A fourth contribution to the knowledge of Neotropical platyrhacid millipeds (Diplopoda: Polydesmida), by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 17-81, 1 fig., February 2, 1960.
No. 3424. Millipedsfrom Dominica, British West Indies, by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 33-41, 2 figs., January 22, 1960.

<<<Page: 108>>>

. 3425. Notes on larvae of nine genera of Aphodiinae in the United States
(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae), by Manohar Lal Jerath. Pp. 43-94, 89 figs., February 2, 1960.
. 3426. A synopsis of the Atopetholidae, a family of spiroboloid millipeds, by
Richard L. Hoffman and Barbara 8. Orcutt. Pp. 95-165, 12 figs., March 14, 1960.
. 3427. Centipedes of the Smithsonian-Bredin expeditions to the West Indies,
by Ralph E. Crabill, Jr. Pp. 167-195, 24 figs., April 8, 1960.
. 3428. Meloid beetles (Coleoptera) of the West Indies, by Richard B. Selander
and John K. Bouseman. Pp. 197-226, 12 figs., March 14, 1960.
From VouuME 112
3432. . Flies of the family Conopidae from eastern Asia, by Sidney Camras. Pp. 107-131, June 24, 1960.
3433. Fireflies of the genus Pyractonema (Coleoptera: Lampyridae), by Frank A. McDermott. Pp. 133-157, 9 figs., June 24, 1960.
3434. North and South American copepods of the genus Hemicyclops (Cyclopoida: Clausidiidae), by Richard U. Gooding. Pp. 159-195, 10 figs., June 17, 1960.
3435. Chironomid midges of California. I. Chironominae, exclusive of Tantarsini (=Calopsectrini), by James E. Sublette. Pp. 197-226, 2 figs., June 28, 1960.

<<<Page: 109>>>

Publications by Members of the Staff of the United States National Museum
July 1959 through June 1960
Bailey, Reeve M., Lachner, Ernest A., Lindsey, C. €., Robins, C. Richard, Roedel, Phil M., Scott, W. B., and Woods, Loren P. A list of common and scientific names of fishes from the United States and Canada. American Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ. No. 2, 102 pp., May 1960.
Battison, Edwin A. The Auburndale Watch Company. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 4, pp. 49-68, 23 figs., 1959.
Bayer, Frederick M. Octocorals from Surinam and the adjacent coasts of South America. Studies on the fauna of Surinam and other Guyanas, vol. 3, pp. 1-48, 21 figs., 1959.
The alcyonarian and black corals
(Anthozoa; Octocorallia and Antipa-
tharia) described and figured by
G. E. Rumphius.
Memorial Volume, De Wit, H. C. D.,
ed., ch. 10, pp. 225-247, 3 pls.,
Baarn, Netherlands, 1959.
(See Deichmann, Elisabeth).
Berkebile, Don. H. Conestoga wagons in Braddock’s campaign, 1755. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 9, pp. 141-153, 10 figs., November 1959.
Bishop, Philip W. The beginnings of cheap steel. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 3, pp. 27-47, 2 figs., 1959.
Blake, John B. Public health in the town of Boston 1630-1822. Harvard Historical Studies, vol. 72, Harvard Univ. Press, xvi+278 pp., 1959.
American Association for the
History of Med.: report of the thirty-
In Rumphius|——. New
second annual meeting. Bull. Hist. of Medicine, vol. 33, No. 4, pp. 348365, July-August 1959.
Boardman, Richard S. A revision of the Silurian bryozoan genus Trematopora. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 139, No. 6, pp. 1-13, 2 pls., 1959.
Bowman, Thomas E. Description and notes on the biology of Lironeca puht, n. sp. (Isopoda: Cymothoidae), parasite of the Hawaiian moray eel, Gymnothorax eurostus (Abbott). Crustaceana, vol. 1, pt. 2, pp. 84-91, 4 figs., 1 pl., May 1960.
Carriker, M. A., Jr. Itinerario del autor durante sus recolecciones en la region de Santa Marta, Colombia de Junio de 1911 a Octubre de 1918. Novedades Colombianas, vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 214-222, September 1959.
species of Mallophaga (Alcedoffula and Philoptebus) from Colombia and the United States. Neotropical Miscellany No. 12, Novedades Colombianas, vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 205-213, 9 figs., 1959.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr., Mackin, J. G., Hubricht, Leslie, Banner, Albert H., and Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. Malacostraca. In Ward & Whipple’s Fresh-water Biology, Edmondson, W. T., ed., 2nd ed., ch. 31, pp. 869— 901, 41 figs., 1959.
(See Waterman, Talbot H.)
Chapelle, Howard I. Conventional boat building methods are not obsolete. Boats, vol. 56, No. 9, pp. 12-14, 55-56, September 1959.
Cifelli, Richard. Bathonian Foraminifera of England. Bull. Mus. Comp.

<<<Page: 110>>>

Zool., vol. 121, No. 7, pp. 265-368,
pls. 1-7, 1959.
Notes on the distribution of English Bathonian Foraminifera. Geol. Mag., vol. 97, No. 1, pp. 33-42, 1960.
Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. Our gold coins. The Middle Atlantic Numismatic Assoc. Journ., vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 10-12, 21-23; No. 2, pp. 6-10, 17-19, 1960.
Clarke, J. F. Gates. Recent Smithsonian Institution entomological accessions. Ent. News, vol. 70, No. 8, pp. 220-222, illustr., 1959.
Cochran, Doris M., and Goin, C. J. A new frog of the genus Limnomedusa from Colombia. Copeia, No. 3, pp. 208-210, fig. la—c, 1959.
Cooke, C. Wythe. Cenozoic echinoids of eastern United States. U.S. Geol. Survey, Prof. Paper 321, pp. i-iii, 1-106, 43 pls., 1959.
Cooper, G. Arthur. Genera of Tertiary and Recent rhynchonelloid brachiopods. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 139, No. 5, pp. i-iv, 1-90, 22 pls., 1959.
Cowan, Richard S. Rutaceae of Santa Catarina. Sellowia, No. 12, pp. 7998, 4 figs., May 1960.
and Brenan, J. P. M. Typification of Piptadenia Bentham. Taxon, vol. 9, No. 2, p. 56, 1960.
Crabill, Ralph E., Jr. A new Floridan Pectentunguis with a reappraisal of its type species and comments on the status of Adenoschendyla and Lestoschendyla. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 49, No. 9, pp. 324-330, 14 figs., 1959.
A new American genus of
cryptopid centipedes, with an anno-
tated key to the scolopendromorph genera from America north of Mexico.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 111, No.
3422, pp. 1-15, 16 figs., January 1960.
Centipedes of the Smithsonian-
Bredin expeditions to the West
Indies. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.
111, No. 3427, pp. 167-195, 24 figs.,
April 1960
Concerning the aberrant genus Nothobius, with a redescription of its type-species. (Chilopoda: Geophilo-
morpha: Himantariidae). Ent. News, vol. 71, No. 4, pp. 87-99, 13 figs., 1960.
A remarkable form of sexual dimorphism in a centipede (Chilopoda: Lithobiomorpha: Lithobiidae). Ent. News, vol. 71, No. 6, pp. 156— 161, 3 figs., June 1960.
Cuatrecasas, José. New chiropterophilous Solanaceae from Colombia. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 49, No. 8, pp. 269-272, August-— September 1959.
Studies in South American
Plants, V. Brittonia, vol. 11, No. 3,
pp. 163-172, July 1959.
(See Smith, Lyman B.)
(See Williams, Louis O.)
Cutress, Charles E., and Pequegnat, Willis E. Three new species of Zoantharia from California. Pacific Science, vol. 14, No. 2, pp. 89-100, 11 figs., April 1960.
Deichmann, Elisabeth, and Bayer, Frederick M. The lemon-colored plexaurids from the West Indies and Brazil. Breviora, No. 115, 12 pp., 5 pls., November 25, 1959.
Deignan, H. G. The genera Pericrocotus, Hemipus, Tephrodornis (Campephagidae) and the Asiatic bulbuls (including Indian-Ocean Hypsipetes). In Peters, Checklist of birds of the world, vol. 9, pp. 207-221, 223-238, 243-251, 275, 277-299, 1960.
Drake, Carl J. A new tingid from New Zealand (Hemiptera). Trans. Roy. Soc. New Zealand, vol. 87, pts. 1 and 2, pp. 67-68, 1 fig., 1959.
Three new water striders from
Brazil (Hemiptera). Bull. Southern
California Acad. Sci., vol. 58, part 2,
pp. 107-111, 1 pl., 1959.
and Davis, Norman T. The mor-
phology, phylogeny, and higher classi-
fication of the family Tingidae, including the description of a new genus and species of the subfamily Vianaidinae (Hemiptera: Heteroptera). Ent.

<<<Page: 111>>>

Americana, vol. 39 (n.s.), pp. 1-100,
75 figs., 1960.
and Lauck, David R. Descrip-
tions, synonymy, and check-list of
American Hydrometridae (Hemip-
tera: Heteroptera). The Great Basin
Naturalist, vol. 19, Nos. 2 and 3, pp.
43-52, 17 figs., 1959.
The genus Veloidea Gould (He-
miptera: Velidae). Proc. Biol. Soc.
Washington, vol: 72, pp. 161-166, 13
figs., 1959.
and Ruhoff, Florence A. A new moss-feeding tingid from Mexico (Hemiptera). Bull. Brooklyn Ent. Soc., vol. 54, No. 5, pp. 136-139, 1 fig., 1959.
Dunkle, David H. Acanthodii. Encyclopedia Sci. and Techn., McGrawHill, 1960.
Antiarchi. Encyclopedia Sci.
and Techn., McGraw-Hill, 1960.
Arctolepiformes. Encyclopedia
Sci. and Techn., McGraw-Hill, 1960.
Arthrodira. | Encyclopedia Sci.
and Techn., McGraw-Hill, 1960.
Brachythoraci. Encyclopedia
Sci. and Techn., McGraw-Hill, 1960.
Placodermi. Encyclopedia Sci.
and Techn., McGraw-Hill, 1960.
Stegoselachii. Encyclopedia Sci.
and Techn., McGraw-Hill, 1960.
U.S. National Museum. Soc.
Vert. Paleont. News Bull., No. 57, p.
11, October 1959.
U.S. National Museum. Soc.
Vert. Paleont. News Bull., No. 58,
p. 12, February 1960.
U.S. National Museum. Soc. Vert. Paleont. News Bull., No. 59, pp. 15-16, June 1960.
Evans, Clifford. Inca. Jn The World Encyclopedia, 1960 ed., Chicago, pp. 79-82, 1960.
Archeology—Western Hemi-
sphere. In The Americana Ann.,
New York, pp. 43-45, 1960.
and Meggers, Betty J. A new dat-
ing method using obsidian: Part II.
An archeological evaluation of the
method. Amer. Antiq., vol. 25, No.
, Meggers, Betty J., and Cruxent, José M. Preliminary results of archeological investigations along the Orinoco and Ventuari Rivers, Venezuela. In Actas del XXXIII Congreso Internacional de Americanistas, San Jose, Costa Rica, July 1958, pp. 359-369, 1960.
—— and Quimby, George. American Indian. Jn the World Book Encyclopedia, 1960 ed., Chicago, pp. 108— 139, 1960.
(See Meggers, Betty J.)
Ewers, John C. A century of American Indian exhibits in the Smithsonian Institution. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1958, pp. 513-525, 8 pils., 1959.
——. Selected references on the Plains Indians. Smithsonian Anthrop. Bibliographies, No. 1, 36 pp., 1960.
A Blood Indian’s conception of
tribal life in dog days. The Blue Jay,
Saskatchewan Nat. Hist. Soe., vol.
18, No. 1, pp. 44-48, 3 pls., Regina,
1960.
(Editor) Adventures of Zenas Leonard, fur trader. Univ. Oklahoma Press, pp. xxv-+172, 16 pls., 1 map, 1959.
Feinstein, B. R. Bird specimens from Assateague Island and neighboring areas. The Raven, vol. 31, Nos.3 & 4, pp. 33-43, 1960.
Field, William D. (See Herrera, José)
Friedmann, Herbert. Changing environment of zoological research. Science, vol. 131, pp. 590-593, 1960.
, Rand, A. L., and Traylor, M. A. Birds from Gabon. Fieldiana: Zool., vol. 41, No. 2, pp. 221-411, 1959.
Garvan, Anthony N. B. The artifact in history. The Present World of History, American Assoc. of State and Local History, 1959.
The New England porringer: An index of custom. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1958, pp. 543552, 1959.
Gazin, C. Lewis. Paleontological exploration and dating of the early
4, pp. 523-537, 2 tables, April 1960.1 Tertiary deposits in basins adjacent

<<<Page: 112>>>

to the Uinta Mountains. Inter-
mountain Assoc. Petroleum Geolo-
gists, Guidebook, 10th Ann. Field
Conf., Wasatch and Uinta Mts.,
pp. 131-138, 1 fig., 1959.
Early Tertiary Apheliscus and Phenacodaptes as pantolestid insectivores. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 139, No. 7, pp. 1-7, 2 pls., 1959.
Gibson, Gordon D. Herero marriage, human problems in British Central Africa. The MRhodes-Livingstone Journ., No. 24, pp. 1-37, 1959.
A bibliography of anthropologi-
cal bibliographies: The Americas,
Current Anthrop., vol. 1, No. 1, pp.
61-75, January 1960.
On a common statistical fallacy. Amer. Anthrop., vol. 61, No. 5, part 1, pp. 892-895, October 1959.
Griffenhagen, George B., and Young, James Harvey. Old English patent medicines in America. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 10, pp. 155-183, 16 figs., 1959.
Hale, Mason E., Jr. The Mediterranean lichen Parmelia perreticulata in central Texas. The Southwest Nat., vol. 3, No. 8, p. 212, 1959.
New or interesting species of
Parmelia in North America. The
Bryologist, vol. 62, No. 1, pp. 16-24,
1959.
New or interesting Parmelias
from North and tropical America.
The Bryologist, vol. 62, No. 2, pp.
123-132, 1959.
Studies on lichen growth rate
and succession. Bull. Torrey Club,
vol. 86, No. 2, pp. 126-129, March—
April, 1959.
A revision of the South American species of Parmelia determined by Lynge. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 36, part 1, pp. 1-41, 1960.
Hamarneh, Sami K. Early Arabic pharmaceutical instruments. Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical Pharmacy ed.), vol. 21, pp. 90-92, 4 figs., February 1960.
Handley, Charles O., Jr. A revision of American bats of the genera Huderma
and Plecotus. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 110, No. 3417, pp. 95-246,
September 3, 1959.
A checklist of Virginia’s mam-
mals. Virginia Wildlife, vol. 20, p.
13, September 1959.
Ungulata. Encyclopedia Americana, vol. 27, pp. 279-281, 1959.
Herrera, José, and Field, William D. A revision of the butterfly genera Theochila and Tatochila (Lepidoptera: Pieridae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 108, No. 3408, pp. 467-514, 93 figs., 1959.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Walton, Margaret. Three new ostracods of the genus Entocythere from the Hiwassee drainage system in Georgia and Tennessee. Journ. Tennessee Acad. Sci., vol. 35, No. 1, pp. 17-23, 20 figs., January 1960.
(See Chace, Fenner A., Jr.)
(See Walton, Margaret)
Hoffman, Richard L. A fourth contribution to the knowledge of neotropical platyrhacid millipeds (Diplopoda: Polydesmida). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 111, No. 3423, pp. 17-31, 1 fig., 1960.
and Orcutt, Barbara S. A synopsis of the Atopetholidae, a family of spiroboloid millipeds. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 111, No. 3426, pp. 95-165, 12 figs., 1960.
Hotton, Nicholas III. The chorda tympani and middle ear as guides to the origin and divergence of reptiles. Evolution, vol. XIV, No. 2, pp. 194-211, figs. 1-4, June 1960.
Houston, Charles O. Philippine Bibliography 1. An Annotated preliminary bibliography of Philippine bibliographies since 1900. Univ. Manila, 69 pp., 1960.
Philippine Studies. The poor relation in American scholarship. Univ. Manila, 20 pp., 1960.
Johnson, David H. Fournew mammals from the Northern Territory of Australia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 72, pp. 183-188, November 4, 1959.

<<<Page: 113>>>

True and false dates of publication. Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 41, No. 2, pp. 302-303, May 20, 1960. (See Jones, J. Knox, Jr.)
Jones, J. Knox, Jr., and Johnson, David H. Review of the insectivores of Korea. Univ. Kansas Publs., Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. 9, No. 22, pp. 549— 578, February 23, 1960.
Kainen, Jacob. Why Bewick succeeded: A note in the history of wood engraving. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 11, pp. 185-201, 15 figs., 1959.
Kendall, Edward C. John Deere’s steel plow. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 2, pp. 15-25, 10 figs., 1959.
Killip, Ellsworth P. Supplemental notes on the American species of Passifloraceae with descriptions of new
species. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 35, part 1, pp. 1-11, 1-23, 11 pls., May 1960.
King, W. James. The natural philosophy of William Gilbert and _ his predecessors. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 8, pp. 121-139, 1 fig., 1959.
Lachner, Ernest A. (See Schultz, Leonard P., and Bailey, Reeve M.) Leonard, E. C. Five new species and one new variety of Acanthaceae recently collected in Venezuela. Bol. Soc. Venezolana Cienc. Nat., No. 95,
pp. 7-15, 5 figs., December 1959.
A new genus of Acanthaceae
from Mexico. Wrightia, vol. 2, No.
1, pp. 1-3, 1 fig., September 1959.
The Machris Brazilian Expedi-
tion. Botany: Phanerogamae, Acan-
thaceae. Contr. Sci. Los Angeles
County Mus., No. 32, pp. 3-19, 12
figs., 1959.
(See Monachino, Joseph.)
Lundeberg, Philip K., and others, Sea Power. E. B. Potter, Ed., PrenticeHall, pp. 541-564, 1960.
McClure, F. A. Typification of the genera of the Bambusoideae_ 11. Taxon, vol. 8, pp. 208-209, July 1959.
Meggers, Betty J. The law of cultural evolution as a practical research tool.
In Essays in the Science of Culture in honor of Leslie A. White. Edited by Gertrude Dole and Robert L. Carneiro, Thomas Y. Crowell Co., New York, pp. 302-317, 1960.
Comment on the ecology of
tropical farming systems. In Planta-
tion Systems of the New World,
Social Science Monographs vir, Pan
American Union, Washington, pp.
98-99, 1959.
and Evans, Clifford. O emprégo
do método comparativo na inter-
pretagéo arqueolégica. Revista So-
ciologia, S&o0 Paulo, Agosto, vol. 20,
No. 3, pp. 397-409, 1958 (received
October 1959).
(See Evans, Clifford.)
Metcalf, George. Coiled sherds from the high plains. Amer. Antiq., vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 119-120, July 1959.
‘Monachino, Joseph, and Leonard, E. C. A new species of Justicia from Florida. Rhodora, vol. 61, No. 727, pp. 183-187, 1 fig., July 1959.
Morton, C. V. Two new species of Columnea in cultivation. Baileya, vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 55-61, 2 figs., June 1959.
The identification of a Costa
Rican Blechnum. Amer. Fern Journ.,
vol. 49, No. 2, pp. 66-69, July 7, 1959.
Remarks on some 1958 dealers’
catalogs. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 49,
No. 2, pp. 72-76, July 7, 1959.
Some new combinations in
Thelypteris. Amer. Fern Journ.,
vol. 49, No. 3, pp. 113, 114, September
29, 1959.
Sur la nomenclature de deux
fougéres rare d’Espagne. Bull. Soc.
Bot. France, vol. 106, Nos. 5-6,
pp. 231-234, October 1959.
The correct name of the fern
usually called Alsophila blechnoides.
Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 49, No. 4,
pp. 151-153, December 30, 1959.
The Machris Brazilian Expedi-
tion. Botany: Pteridophyta. Contr.
Sci. Los Angeles County Mus.,
No. 35, pp. 3-7, January 20, 1960.
Observations on cultivated ferns,
The ferns currently known as

<<<Page: 114>>>

Rumohra. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 50, | Rogers, Grace L.
No. 1, pp. 145-155, 1 pl., April 1960. Moore, J. Percy. Hirudinea. In Ward & Whipple’s Fresh-water Biology, Edmondson, W. T., ed., 2nd ed., ch. 23, pp. 542-557, 13 figs., 1959.
Muesebeck, C. F. W. New reared species of Lygocerus Foerster (Hymenoptera: Ceraphronidae). Ent. News, vol. 70, No. 4, pp. 91-96, 5 figs., 1959.
Multhauf, Robert P. Mine pumping in Agricola’s time and later. U.S. Nat. Mus. Buil. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 7, pp. 113-120, 8 figs., 1959.
The scientist and the “improver” of technology. Technology and Culture, vol. I, No. 1, pp. 38-47, Winter, 1959.
Newville, Leslie J. Development of the phonograph at Alexander Graham Bell’s Volta laboratory. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 5, pp. 69-79, 8 figs., 1959.
Parfin, S. and Gurney, A. B. Neuroptera. In Ward and Whipple’s Fresh-water Biology, Edmondson, W. T., ed., ch. 37, pp. 973-980, 4 figs., 1959.
Price, Derek J. de Solla. On the origin of clockwork, perpetual motion devices, and the compass. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper 6, pp. 81-112, 22 figs., 1959.
Rehder, Harald A. L’Identité de I’Ile Grimwood de Hugh Cuming. Bull. Soc. Etudes Oceanniennes, Nos. 127 & 128, pp. 46-48, June—-September 1959.
Riesenberg, Saul H. A New Guinea canoe prow. Journ. Polynesian Soc., vol. 68, No. 1, pp. 45-46, 1 pl., March 1959.
A Pacific voyager’s hoax. Eth-
nohistory, vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 238-264,
1959.
and Kaneshiro, Shigeru. A
Caroline Islands script. Bur. Amer.
Ethnol. Bull. 173, Anthrop. Paper
No. 60, pp. 269-333, 3 pls., 4 figs.,
1 map, 1960.
The Scholfield woolcarding machines. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 218, Contr. Mus. Hist. Techn., Paper No. 1, pp. 1-14, 10 figs., 1959.
Rudd, Velva E. The genus Aeschynomene in Malaysia. Reinwardtia, vol. 5, part 1, pp. 23-36, June 1959.
Ruhoff, Florence A. (See Drake, Carl J.)
Schultz, Leonard P. The generic status of Mimagonistes and Glandulocauda, South American characid fishes. Tropical Fish Hobbyist, vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 6-11, 63-64, 5 figs., 1959.
A review of the pompadour or
discus fishes, genus Symphysodon of
South America. Tropical Fish Hob-
byist, vol. 8, No. 10, pp. 5-17, 8 figs.,
1960.
and collaborators (Chapman, Wilbert M., Lachner, Ernest A., and Woods, Loren P.). Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 202, vol. 2, pp. i-ix, 1-438, figs. 91-132, pls. 75-123, 1960.
Setzer, Henry W. The spiny mice
'(Acomys) of Egypt. Journ. Egyptian Public Health Assoc., vol. 34, No. 3, pp. 98-101, December 28, 1959.
The baculum of Poecilictis libyca. Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 41, No. 1, pp. 138-139, February 20, 1960.
Setzler, Frank M., and McCarthy, F. D. The archeology of Arnhem Land, Australia. Records of the AmericanAustralian Scient. Exped. to Arnhem Land, Melbourne Univ. Press, vol. 2, pp. 215-295, 7 figs., 19 pls., 1960.
and Cummins, Harold. Dermatoglyphics of Australian aborigines. Records of the American-Australian Scient. Exped. to Arnhem Land, Melbourne Univ. Press, vol. 2, pp. 203-214, 9 tables, 1960.
—, Trotter, Mildred, and Duggins, Oliver H. Hair of Australian aborigines. Records of the AmericanAustralian Scient. Exped. to Arnhem Land, Melbourne Univ. Press, vol. 2, pp. 195-202, 6 tables, 1960.
Shoemaker, Clarence R. Three new cave amphipods from the West Indies. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 49,

<<<Page: 115>>>

No. 8, pp. 273-283, 4 figs., September 1959.
Smith, A. C. Seven new species of Tongan plants and various notes. In Plants of Tonga, Yuncker, T. G., B. P. Bishop Mus. Bull., vol. 220, through pp. 45-271, 7 figs., July 1959.
Smith, Lyman B. An overlooked Portea. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 9, No. 2, p. 24, March-April 1959.
Notes on Bromeliaceae, x11.
Phytologia, vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 1-6,
1 pl., July 1959.
Three new Greigias from Mexico.
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 9, No. 4,
pp. 51-53, 3 figs., July-August 1959.
Guzmania teuscheri, a new orna-
mental from Ecuador. Bromel. Soc.
Bull., vol. 9, No. 6, pp. 86-87, 2 figs.,
November—December 1959.
Notes on Bromeliaceae, x11.
Phytologia, vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 105-111,
1 pl., February 1960.
. A bromeliad census. Bromel.
Soc. Bull., vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 6-7,
January—February 1960.
Notes on Bromeliaceae, xiv.
Phytologia, vol. 7, No. 4, pp. 169-178,
2 pls., April 1960.
and Downs, Robert J. Notulae
Euphorbiacearum. Sellowia, No. 11,
pp. 149-154, 1959.
and Downs, Robert J. Resumo
preliminar das Euforbidceas de Santa
Catarina. Sellowia, No. 11, pp. 155-
231, 34 figs., 1959.
and Downs, Robert J. Xyriddceas
do Herbario do Museu Paraense
Emilio Goeldi. Bol. Mus. Paraense
Emilio Geoldi, n. ser., No. 2, pp. 1-9,
1959.
and Downs, Robert J. Resumo
preliminar das Amarantdceas de Santa
Catarina. Sellowia, No. 12, pp. 99-
120, 8 figs., May 1960.
and Downs, Robert J. Resumo preliminar das Cariofiléceas de Santa Catarina. Sellowia, No. 12, pp. 121134, 6 figs., May 1960.
—— and collaborators (J. Cuatrecasas, Richard A. Howard, Robert C. Foster, Bassett Maguire, Robert J. Downs). The Machris Brazilian Ex-
pedition. Botany: Phanerogamae, Amaranthaceae and other families. Contr. Sci. Los Angeles County Mus., No. 30, pp. 3-16, 7 figs., 1959.
Snodgrass, R. E. The anatomical life of the mosquito. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 139, No. 8, pp. 1-87, 30 figs., 1959.
Snyder, Thomas E. Fossil termites from Tertiary amber of Chiapas, Mexico. Journ. Paleont., vol. 34, No. 3, pp. 493-494, 3 figs., May 1960.
(See Wetmore, Alexander)
Stevenson, Jonn A. The beginnings of plant pathology in North America. In Plant Pathology, problems and progress, C. S. Holton, 1908-1958, pp. 14-23, 1959.
Stewart, T. D. Physical anthropology. Handbook of Latin American Studies No. 21 (1958), Univ. of Florida Press, pp. 37-42, 1959.
Bear paw remains closely re-
semble human bones. FBI Law En-
forcement Bull., vol. 28, No. 11, pp.
18-21, November 1959.
The restored Shanidar I skull.
(Reprinted by permission from
Sumer.) Ann. Rep. Smithsonian
Inst. for 1958, Publ. 4853, pp. 473-
480, 13 pls., 1959.
Description of the skeletal remains from Doniphan and Scott Counties, Kansas. Jn An Introduction to Kansas Archeology, by Waldo R. Wedel. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 174, pp. 669-683, figs. 107-109, pls. 94-97, 1959.
Form of the pubic bone in Neanderthal man. Science, vol. 131, No. 3411, pp. 1487-1438, May 1960.
Swallen, Jason R. New Mexican grasses. Bol. Soc. Bot. Mexico, No. 23, pp. 26-37, 1958.
Switzer, George. Thirty-fourth annual report on the diamond industry, 1958. Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, vol. 129, 15 pp., 1959.
Van Beek, Gus W. A new interpretation of the so-called South Arabian house model. Amer. Journ. Arch.,vol. 63, No. 3, pp. 269-273, 1959.

<<<Page: 116>>>

Walton, Margaret, and Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. Two new eyeless ostracods of the genus Hntocythere from Florida. Quart. Journ. Florida Acad. Sci., vol. 22, No. 2, pp. 114-120, 20 figs., June 1959.
Waterman, Talbot H., and Chace, Fenner A., Jr. General crustacean biology. In The Physiology of Crustacea, Waterman, Talbot H., ed., Academic Press, vol. 1, ch. 1, pp. 1-33, 40 figs., 1960.
Watkins, C. Malcolm. Glassmaking and glassmakers in the Nation’s capital. Antiques, vol. 76, No. 2, pp. 1384-136, August 1959.
Wedel, Waldo R. An introduction to Kansas Archeology. With Description of the skeletal remains from Doniphan and Scott Counties, Kansas, by T. D. Stewart. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 174, 723 pp., 109 figs., 97 pls., 1959.
Wetmore, Alexander. Notes on certain grouse of the Pleistocene. Wilson Bull., vol. 71, No. 2, pp. 178-182, 4 figs., 1959.
The birds of Isla Escudo de
Veraguas, Panamd. Smithsonian
Mise. Coll., vol. 139, No. 2, pp. 1-27,
3 figs., 2 pls., 1959.
Black-capped petrel, Pterodroma
nasitata (Kuhl). Jn Bannerman,
D. A., The Birds of the British Isles,
vol. 8, pp. 146-150, 1959.
563136—60——_8
Audubon’s shearwater, Puffinus
Vhermintert Vherminiert Lesson. In
Bannerman, D. A., The Birds of the
British Isles, vol. 8, pp. 108-111, 1959.
Cave-dwelling amphipods. Nat.
Spel. Soc. News, vol. 17, No. 10, p. 142, 1959.
Letter regarding A.O.U. meeting
in Regina, Saskatchewan. In Let-
ters, Blue Jay, vol. 17, No. 4, p. 139,
1959.
, Snyder, Thomas E., and Porter, Bennit A. James Zetek, 1886-1959. Journ. Econ. Ent., vol. 52, No. 6, pp. 1230-1232, 1 pl., December 1959.
White, John H., Jr. The Mt. Adams and Eden Park inclined railway, the Kerper Road. Bull. Hist. and Philos. Soc. Ohio, pp. 243-276, 6 pls., October 1959.
Williams, Louis O., and Cuatrecasas, José. A _ critical new Bursera from Costa Rica. Tropical Woods, No. 110, pp. 30-32, April 1959.
Wilson, Mildred Stratten. Branchiura and parasitic Copepoda. In Ward & Whipple’s Fresh-water Biology, Edmondson, W. T., ed., 2nd ed., John Wiley & Sons, ch. 30, pp. 862-868, 5 figs., 1959.
and Yeatman, Harry C. Free-
living Copepoda. In Ward & Whip-
ple’s Fresh-water Biology, Edmondson, W. T., ed., 2nd ed., John Wiley &
Sons, ch. 29, pp. 735-861, 222 figs.,
1959.

<<<Page: 117>>>

Denors to the National Collections
(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance with law.)
Abbot, Elinor. B.)
Abbot, Marion B. and Elinor, Washington, D.C.: Fresh-water mussel from St. Paul, Minn. (225670).
Abbott, Dr. R. Tucker. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and Purchon, Dr. R. D.)
Abendroth, Mrs. A., Teresépolis, Brazil: 2 phanerogams from Brazil (228163).
Academia Republicii Populare Romine, Bucharest, Rumania: (Through Dr. P. B&narescu) 795 fishes from Rumanian waters, including types (229404, exchange).
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. R. Tucker Abbott) 3,000 marine mollusks from the Philippines and 600 miscellaneous mollusks (227240, 228094, exchanges); (through Dr. James E. Bohlke) fish, holotype, from the Gulf of Mexico (228936, exchange); (through Dr. Selwyn S. Roback) 5 North American midges (226714); (through Dr. Robert Robertson) gorgonian (229559).
Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R., Moscow, U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. E. L. Krinov) specimens of 3 meteorites from the U.S.S.R. (227814, exchange); (through Professor Vlasov) labuntsovite, type, from Khibina, Kola Peninsula, U.S.S.R. (228131). Zoological Institute: (Through Dr. A. Stackelberg) 186 flies from Russia (228885, exchange); (through Dr. V. A. Zaslavskij) 39 adult and 43 larval weevils from the U.S.S.R. (230527, exchange).
Acock, Leroy, Falls Church, Va.: World War I naval officer’s boat cloak (228955).
Acree, Mrs. Leslie M., Gordonsville, Va.: Wooden washboard and bed rope tightener (139258).
(See Abbot, Marion
Acufia, Julian. (See Estacién Experimental Agronémica)
Adams, Mrs. Arthur S., Washington, D.C.: 2 linen chemises, fan, and campaign handkerchief of the 19th century (225494).
Adkinson, Dr. Burton W. National Science Foundation)
Affleck, Mrs. P. G., Washington, D.C.: (Through V. H. Polkinhorn) sewing bird, 19th century (227446).
African Institute for Medical Research, Johannesburg, Union of South Africa: (Through Dr. F. Zumpt) earwig from Africa (226711).
AGFA, Leverkusen/Rhineland, Germany: AGFA OPTIMA 35mm still camera (228476).
Agrell, Dr. S. O. University of)
Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, College Station, Tex.: 8 grasses from the U.S. and Mexico (219376); (through Prof. Manning A. Price) 3 ticks, holotype, allotype, and paratype, from Texas (226570).
Agriculture, U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.: Agricultural Research Service: Phanerogam collected by H. 8. Gentry (225858); 167 phanerogams, 4 grasses, and 5 ferns collected in southern Europe by Dr. F. G. Meyer (225981); phanerogam (226749); 3 land snails from Panama (227391); 150 phanerograms, 29 grasses, and 1 fern (227798); 61,732 miscellaneous insects from various localities (230540); (through Dr. W. H. Anderson) 5 land snails from Guatemala and Trinidad (225583); (through Edna M. Buhrer) black coral (227010) ; (through Dr. P. W. Oman) 743 land and fresh-water snails from Bahama Islands, Belgium, British Guiana, British Honduras, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ecuador, French
(See
(See Cambridge,

<<<Page: 118>>>

Morocco, Greece, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Spain, Venezuela, Florida, Hawaii, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, and Utah (224909, 225408, 225705, 226518, 226645, 227152, 227177, 227297, 227537, 227708, 227748, 228086, 228213, 228239, 228708, 228854, 228915); 318 land and fresh-water mollusks from Bermuda, Cuba, Ecuador, Italy, Peru, Spain, Uruguay, Wisconsin, South Carolina, and New York (225349, 225521, 227627, 227690); 2 earthworms (227018) ; (through Dr. R. I. Sailer) 174 land and fresh-water snails and mollusks from Belgium, British Honduras, Cuba, Ecuador, France, Ghana, Jamaica, Mexico, Morocco, Peru, Portugal, Switzerland, and the United States (225905, 226006, 226081, 226154, 226253, 226346, 226822, 227935, 228016); (through Dr. Ivan Shiller) phanerogam from Texas (221106); 3 phanerogams, types (228678). Forest Service: 54 phanerogams collected in Lee Experimental Forest, Va., by Elbert L. Little, Jr., and George P. Jarrett, 1951 (228477); sandalwood from Hawaii (229817); 114 insects from North America (230526); (through Dr. Elbert L. Little, Jr.) 3 phanerogams and 31 grasses from British Guiana (229494); (through John C. Moser) 10 ants from Louisiana (226712). Soil Conservation Service: Phanerogam and 2 grasses from Florida (227475, 228525).
Alabama Department of Conservation, Montgomery, Ala.: (Through Dr. H. D. Kelly) 50 copepods (225018).
Alabama Polytechnic Institute, Auburn, Ala.: (Through Dr. Rudolf W. Becking) 70 lichens from North Carolina and Tennessee (225535).
Alaska Department of Fish & Game, Kodiak, Alaska: (Through Guy C. Powell) 2 crabs (227972).
Alaska Department of Health, Juneau, Alaska: Division of Public Health Laboratories: (Through R. B. Williams) 1 nematomorph worm, (225579),
Albanese, John S., Union, N.J.: 9 minerals from Franklin, N.J. (226743, 227279, 227769, 228136, 230424),
Alexander, Dr. Charles P., Amherst, Mass.: 19 insects from North America (229456).
Alexander, L. T. (See E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc.)
Allan, Greever. (See Post Office Department) Allyn, S. C. (See National Cash
Register Co.)
Alsaker, Dr. R. L., St. Petersburg, Fla.: 88 marine mollusks (225376).
Altena, Dr. van Regetern, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through Mrs. John J. Kaicher) 3 mollusks from Indonesia (224500).
Alvarino, Mrs. Angeles. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Alverson, Franklin G. (See InterAmerican Tropical Tuna Commission)
American Brass Co., Waterbury, Conn.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Brown & Sharpe American Standard dise wire gage (226406).
American College of Cardiology, New York, N.Y.: Bronze copy of the Groedel Medal of Award (226756).
American Museum of Natural History, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Junius Bird) 248 sherd type samples from Yarinacocha, Peru (228465); (through Dr. Mont A. Cazier) collection of beetles, comprising 1,012 larvae, 35 adults, and 85 pupae (229864) ; (through Dr. William K. Emerson) sea anemone (227121); (through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) cast of bird bones, type, from the Lower Miocene, Sioux County, Nebr. (227126, exchange).
American Pharmaceutical Association Washington, D.C.: (Through George B. Griffenhagen) plastic medicine teaspoon (228959).
Ames, Marguerite E., Washington, D.C.: (Through Vice Adm. A. C, Richmond) Bible from U.S.S. Bear (225995).
Anderson, Charles A., Prescott, Ariz.: 3 porphyry copper ores from Bagdad, Ariz. (226564).
Anderson, Dr. W. H. ture, U.S. Department of)
Andre, Dean Floyd, Ames, Iowa: 2 insects (226534),
(See Agricul

<<<Page: 119>>>

Anonymous: 2 spears from West Africa (230010); 1 pice, 4% anna in copper, and 1 rupee bank note (225693) ; Viola da Gamba (229483).
Araijo, Virgilio de Portugal, Luanda, Angola: 14 insects from Africa and the Orient (227419).
Aristeguieta, Dr. Leandro. Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria)
Armstrong, Mr. and Mrs. Charles, Naperville, Ill.: 25 invertebrate fossils from the Silurian and Devonian of the midwest (228428, exchange).
Armstrong, Paul. (See Armstrong Bros. Tool Co.)
Armstrong Bres. Tool Company, Chicago, Ill.: (Through Paul Armstrong) tool holder (228957).
Armstrong Cork Co., Lancaster, Pa.: (Through George M. Scattergood) 4 glass labels (225921); (through George M. Scattergood and John Walton) glass medicine tumbler (227909).
Arnhem Land Expedition: (Under auspices of Government of Australia, National Geographic Society, and Smithsonian Institution) (Through Dr. R. L. Specht) 32 phanerogams and 13 grasses collected in Arnhem Land in 1948 (226746, collected for the Museum).
Arnold, W. G., St. Louis, Mo.: 3 wooden nickels commemorating the 20th anniversary of the Missouri Numismatic Society, 1938-58 (228683).
Arnow, Theodore, Santurce, Puerto Rico: 17 gorgonians (224802).
Aron, Dr. William, Seattle, Wash.: (Through Dr. Daniel M. Cohen) 8 fishes from the North Pacific Ocean (228144).
Aronson, Louis V., Il. Corporation)
ARS Polana. ment of)
Ashbrook, Arthur G., Pittsburgh, Pa.: Original cartoon drawn by Cyrus C. Hungerford and 1 original page of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (225698).
Ashland Oil and Refining Co., Ashland, Ky.: (Through Robert L. Gray) Scale model of a towboat and tow and 8 oil barges (226969).
(See
(See Ronson
(See Poland, Govern-
Ashworth, Arthur M., Warwick Neck, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Brown & Sharpe micrometer caliper (226407).
Astin, Dr. A. V. U.S. Department of)
Athearn, Herbert D., Cleveland, Tenn.: 10 fresh-water mussels from Amherst County, Va. (226823).
Atkins, John. (See Interior, Department of the)
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Co., Wilmington, N.C.: (Through J. W. Hawthorne) hand boring machine (228491).
Atlantic Research Cerp., Alexandria, Va.: (Through William P. Barnes, Jr.) 2 telescope mirror polishing tools (226338).
Atwater, Rev. David T., Brooklyn, N.Y.: 41 fish and fresh-water mites from Lake Memphremagog, Vt. (226401).
Atyeo, Dr. Warren T., Lincoln, Nebr.: 14 insects, paratypes (226951).
Austin Peay State College, Clarksville, Tenn.: (Through Dr. Haskell C. Phillips) 27 lichens from Tennessee (226610).
Australia, Government of: Australian Museum: (Through Dr. Gilbert Whitley) 2 fishes, types, collected in Australia by the Endeavour (225719, exchange). Botanic Gardens: 65 phanerogams, 7 ferns and 1 cryptogam (227519, exchange); 75 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and 1 fern chiefly collected in Victoria by H. Aston, 1958-59 (230255, exchange). Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics: (Through Dr. J. J. Veevers) 34 brachiopods from the Devonian and Carboniferous of Fitzroy Basin, Western Australia (228280, exchange). Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization: 117 phanerogams and 33 grasses from Australia and tropical coastal Queensland (229153, exchange); (through Dr. A. M. Richards) 12 insects from New Zealand (230059, exchange). (See also Arnhem Land Expedition)
Axelrod, Herbert R., Jersey City, N.J.: 52 fresh-water fishes, including
(See Commerce,

<<<Page: 120>>>

2 holotypes and 39 paratypes, from miscellaneous localities (227465, 228901). (See also Socolof, Ross)
Azimi, Parviz, Tehran, Iran: (Through Sylvia Czayo) 2 skulls from Kardeh Cave, Khorasan State, Northern Iran (229140).
Baas, Philip B. R., Jr., Tenafly, N.J.: Model of a water-gas generating plant constructed in 1927 (227939).
Babcock, Dr. O. G., Sonora, Tex.: 825 insects, including Diptera, Coleoptera, and Hymenoptera, and 18 arachnids from South Africa (227431, 229806).
Bacescu, Dr. M. (See Muzeul National de Istorie Natural ‘‘Grigore Antipa’’)
Badische Anilin and Soda-Fabrik AG, Ludwigshafen a. Rhein, Germany: Replica of oven used by Dr. Alwin Mittasch in research on the ammonia synthesis (229926).
Bailey, Dr. Stanley F. fornia, University of) Baker, Arthur A.
Department of the)
Baker, James H., Baker, Oreg.: 236 small moths, 1 millipede, 22 centipedes, 1 scorpion, and 2 spiders from Oregon (227129, 227780).
Baker, James K. Department of the)
Baker, Mrs. O. E., College Park, Md.: 2 Virginia colonial notes, 2 obsolete bank notes, and 1 U.S. fractional currency piece (225988).
Baldwin, Prof. John T., Jr. (See William and Mary College)
Baldwin, Wayne J. (See California, University of)
Balk, Dr. Christina L., Socorro, N. Mex.: 600 middle and late Cambrian invertebrate fossils from the Wind River Mountains, Wyo. (225664).
Balkissonn, Mrs. Basdeo, Washington, D.C.: Articles of clothing and accoutrements used by donor’s father during World War I (227579).
Ball, Dr. G. E., Edmonton, Alberta,
(See Cali-
(See Interior, U.S.
(See Interior, U.S.
Canada: 128 centipedes from New Mexico (226948). Ball, Dr. Gordon H. (See Heyne-
man, Dr. Donald)
Baltars, Eduards, Baltimore, Md.: 10 phanerogams and 2 grasses from Maryland (228162).
Baltimore, City of, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Clarence E. Keefer) gage panel from the Bethlehem steam engine, 1908 (228814).
Baltimore, Wesley S., Washington, D.C.: Mason’s level (230374).
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co., Baltimore, Md.: 4 glass negatives of the B & O Railroad ticket office, Washington, D.C., 1918 (229804); (through L. W. Sagle) 14 patent models of locomotives and railroad equipment and an automobile speedometer (228817).
Banarescu, Dr. P. (See Academia Republicii Populare Romine)
Bandy, Dr. Mark C., Colorado Springs, Colo.: 17 minerals from various localities (230012, exchange).
Banks, Donald J., Auburn, Ala.: 4 grasses from Alabama (227278).
Banner, Dr. Albert H. (See Hawaii, University of)
Barbehenn, Dr. Kyle R. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Barber, Marvin L., Waycross, Ga.: Bevel protractor (226245).
Barbour, David H. (See Norman L. Armstrong, Ltd.)
Barker, Carleton P., Providence, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Darling, Brown & Sharpe triangular steel rule (226408).
Barnes, Col. Theodore, Washington, D.C.: U.S. Grant campaign novelty (222819) ; bronze inkstand that belonged to Henry Clay and man’s jeweled enamel and gold watch and key (230167); 7 items of historical memorabilia and campaign Americana (230168).
Barnes, William P., Jr. (See Atlantic Research Corp.)
Baroni, Mrs. Anthony, Arlington, Va.: Fitted box of sewing machine attachments, 1883 (229874).
Barquist, Maj. Richard F., Fort Knox, Ky.: Wheatear from Greenland (226469).
Barr, Dr. Thomas C., Jr., Cookeville, Tenn.: 7 centipedes from Virginia and Tennessee (226625); 2 cave beetles,

<<<Page: 121>>>

holotype and allotype, from the U.S. (229808). (See also Tennessee Polytechnic Institute)
Barr, Dr. W. F., Moscow, Idaho: 4 beetles from Idaho (226945).
Barsanov, G. P. (See Moscow Government University of M. V. Lomonsov)
Bartholomew, Elizabeth West Virginia University)
Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 46 phanerogams, 6 grasses, and 2 ferns from Ohio and Virginia (227955).
Barton, A. J., Stony Brook, L.L., N.Y.: 3 salamanders from Bell, Ky. (229888).
Barton, Hank, Falls Church, Va.: Putnam High School centennial medal, 1955 (225987).
Battison, E. A. (See Seff, Herman H.)
Baty, Marcia S. (See Baty, Mrs. Mary E. and Samuel Stanhope)
Baty, Mrs. Mary E. (deceased): (Through Marcia S. Baty) 19 pieces of jewelry, 1890-1920 (227654).
Baty, Samuel Stanhope (deceased): (Through Marcia 8S. Baty) framed manuscript will of William Dobbin, written in 1767 (226898).
Baughman, George R., Los Angeles, Calif.: Caliper square (226402).
Baughman, U. E. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Baughman, Mrs. Virgil, Winchester, Va.: Ist, 2nd, and 8rd right metacarpals of a fossil seal (226655).
Beattie, Robert, Lane Cove, N.S.W., Australia: 7 brachiopods and 6 fossil fish, from Australia (228342, exchange).
Beatty, Harry A., New York, N.Y.: 32 crabs, 5 porcellanids, 2 shrimps, and 1 hippa (152750).
Beaudette Foundation, Solvang, Calif.: Phanerogam (226499); (through Dr. E. Yale Dawson) 21 eryptogams from Clipperton Island (225678).
Bebee, A. E., Omaha, Nebr.: Gold 50-piastra piece of Egypt, 1958, and Post Office receipt, dated 1789 (228295).
Bechtel, Mrs. Edwin De T., New York, N.Y.: 75 medals (225983).
A. (See
Becker, Ralph E., Washington, D.C.: 129 American political campaign items (227739).
Becking, Dr. Rudolf W. bama Polytechnic Institute)
Beckvold, Edwin H., Dorchester, Mass.: Twist drill and steel wire gage (226244),
Beeley, James A., Houston, Tex.: Section of bent oil pipeline (229667).
Beers, Robert, Hyattsville, Md.: 2 tremolites from Gilmore Quarry, Baltimore Co., Md. (229443).
Beil, Dr. Hanswilhelm, Gd6ttingen, Germany: Corrensite from Hunstollen, near Gottingen (225359, exchange); 2 batavites from Kropfmuhl, near Passau, Bavaria, Germany, and 2 zeyringites from Unterzeiring, Styria, Austria (226453, exchange); 8 minerals from various localities (229797, exchange).
Bell, Katherine F., Washington, D.C.: Suit and blouse of the early 20th century (227492).
Bell, Ralph C., and McReynolds, Robert G., Salina, Kans.: Chain mail fragments (224642).
Bell, Wayne A., Arlington, Isopod (227119).
Bengry, Dr. Ronald P. (See Institute of Jamaica).
Bennett, Dr. Charles F., Los Angeles, Calif.: 10 shrimps and 2 crabs (226054).
Bennie Cotton, Inc., Worcester, Mass.: (Through David E. Cotton) iron phoenix column (225996).
Berdan, Jean M. (See McAlester, Dr. A. L., and Murray, Prof. Grover E.)
Berg, Dr. C. O., Ithaca, N.Y.: 60 flies and their immature stages and 19 tachinid flies with puparia from Mexico and Central America (229807).
Bernthal, Rev. J. B., South Milwaukee, Wis.: Psalm Book (227738).
Berry, Paul A., Guthrie, Okla.: 748 miscellaneous insects from El Salvador (226573) ; 318 miscellaneous beetles from San Salvador, El Salvador (229454).
Bertolet, Clarence E., Philadelphia, Pa.: 699 items of Iceland postal stationery (228951).
(See Ala-
Va.:

<<<Page: 122>>>

Berwick, Mrs. Clara W., Norwood, Mass.: 37 pieces of rare European and American glass (222179); 66 pieces of rare blown and pressed glass (225023).
Besairie, Dr. H. (See Service Géologique)
Bethlehem Steel Corp., Washington, D.C.: (Through Robert F. Willey) 3 historical naval objects (230144).
Bettle, Griscom, Wynnwood, Pa: 1 British brass button from Manasquan, N.J., wreck (228482). ;
Bevan, Billy. (See Bevan, Tommy)
Bevan, Tommy, and Bevan, Billy, Washington, D.C.: 2 bobwhites (227776).
Bianco, William, Silver Spring, Md.: 5-keyed boxwood clarinet (226039).
Bideaux, Richard, Tucson, Ariz.: Arsenopyrite from Santa Barbara, Mexico (228349, exchange).
Biezanko, Dr. C., Pelotas, Brazil: 496 Lepidoptera and miscellaneous insects (225849) ; 722 miscellaneous insects from Argentina and Brazil (227568, 227571).
Bigi, Avv. Prof. Federico, Repubblica di San Marino: 5 die proofs of San Marino Lincoln postage stamps (225920).
Biguet, Prof. J., Lille, France: 3 parasitic helminths, including paratypes, from France (226084).
Bingham, Mrs. Walter VanDyke, Washington, D.C.: 18 pieces of men’s and women’s wearing apparel, 19th century (229077).
Bird, Dr. Junius. (See American Museum of Natural History).
Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Honolulu, Hawaii: 1,855 marine mollusks, principally from the central and western Pacific, and 16 brachiopods (229149, exchange); (through Dr. Charles H. Edmondson) 3 pallets representing paratypic material of a new speciés of shipworm from Palau (227434, exchange); (through Marie C. Neal) phanerogam (230345).
Bixler, Mrs. P. S. (deceased): (Through Mr. and Mrs. Murrel B. Salter) vertical feed Davis sewing machine, late 19th century (226751).
Blaich, Mrs. Mildred, Washington, D.C.: 4 pottery specimens from excavations in Honduras, July 1959 (226937).
Blair, Charles S., Birmingham, Ala.: 50 Silurian invertebrate fossils from Alabama (226738).
Blake, Dr. John B., Washington, D.C.: Bifocal spectacles used by donor’s father (225997); barbed wire, early type (230577).
Blanc, F.L. (See California, State of)
Blancett, Esther G., Washington, D.C.: 100 U.S. Christmas seals, 1959 (228256); 76 U.S. and French stamps and seals (230472).
Blanchard, Ruth E. (See Smithsonian Institution)
Blasier, Paul F., Washington, D.C.: 2 philatelic covers commemorating the inaugural jet flight New York to Brussels, Jan. 24, 1960 (230484).
Blauweiss, Jack, New York, N.Y.: Star sapphire from Burma (228992, exchange).
Blaylock, Lt. Col. Robert G. (See Defense, U.S. Department of) Bloomer, Howard, Lorton, Va.:
(Through Dr. Harald Rehder) Cape May warbler (226619). Beohart, Dr. George E. Dr. Richard M.) Bohart, Dr. Richard M., Davis, Calif.: 36 wasps, including paratypes,
(See Bohart,
from the United States (210181, 227065). Bohart, Dr. Richard M., Davis,
Calif., and Bohart, Dr. George E., Logan, Utah: 4 wasps, including paratypes, from the United States (226912).
Bohlke, Dr. James E. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Bolli, Dr. Hans M., Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 52 Cretaceous Foraminifera, types, from Deep Well, Trinidad (225831); (through Ruth Todd) 8
Foraminifera, paratypes, from the upper Cretaceous, and 5 Foraminifera from the Oligocene, all from Trinidad, B.W.lI. (226733).
Boltovsky, Dr. Esteban. icio de Hidrografia Naval)
Bonet, Dr. Federico. (See Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biologicas)
Bookhout, Dr. C. G. (See Duke University)
(See Serv

<<<Page: 123>>>

Bocne, Dr. Bert R. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Borchert, Paul, Colorado Springs, Colo.: Silver medal issued in honor of the Colorado ‘‘Rush to the Rockies’ Centennial, 1859-1959 (228759).
Berrero, H., Dr. José I., Bogotd,
Colombia: 123 .bird skins (225910, exchange).
Borst, Prof. Lyle B. (See New York University)
Borton, Marjorie, New York, N.Y.: (Through Robert H. Burgess) white coat and trousers of chief carpenter’s mate, U.S. Navy, ca. 1910 (225993).
Bosma, D. (See Netherlands, Government of)
Boston University, Boston, Mass.: (Through Dr. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.) fish, holotype, from off California (228935).
Bostrom, Martin, Orebro, Sweden: First-day cover of Norway commemorating the Bi-Centenary of the Royal Academy of Science (230143).
Botanische Staatssammlung, Munich, Germany: (Through Dr. J. Poelt) 40 lichens (227247, exchange).
Botanischer Garten und Museum, Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: (Through Dr. D. KE. Meyer) 6 ferns (229370, exchange).
Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Cambridge, Mass.: 36 invertebrate fossils from the
Devonian, Seboonook formation (229595). Bowen, Dr. N. L. (See Carnegie
Institution of Washington)
Bowers, Mrs. Joseph F., Washington, D.C.: Pair of woman’s shoes of the 20th century (229562).
Bowles, Bart, Rockville, Md.: Gypsum with marcasite inclusions and marcasite on calcite from Penfield, N.Y. (226322).
Bowling Green State University, Bowling Green, Ohio: (Through Dr. Edward J. Karlin) 5 medusae (227624).
Boyd, Bessie B. (deceased): (Through E. A. Mitchell, Jr.) sword and scabbard and pistol (222195, bequest).
Bradford, Faith, Washington, D.C.: Miniature furnishings of an American doll house, period 1945-55 (225696); first-day cover of the Virginia Dare stamp and insurance policy bearing a U.S. Internal Revenue stamp of 50-cent denomination canceled March 2, 1872 (226767).
Bradshaw, Dr. Jehn S., La Jolla, Calif.: 71 pelagic Foraminifera from north and equatorial Pacific Ocean (226736).
‘Branch, Mrs. Nina. State Board of Health)
Brandhorst, Carl T., Seward, Nebr.: 20 land snails from Nebraska (228660).
Branscomb, W. Maurice, Arlington, Va.: Chain-stitch sewing machine of the 1860’s (229875).
Brawner, William W. (See Waggaman-Brawner Realty Corp.)
Bredin, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce. Bredin Fund)
Bredin Fund, Smithsonian Institution: (Through Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Bredin) 4,498 plants, 6,468 insects, 7,000 marine invertebrates, 146 fishes, and 2 reptiles collected by Dr. Waldo Schmitt, Dr. Richard 8. Cowan, and Dr. Thomas E. Bowman on the 1959 Smithsonian-Bredin expedition to the West Indies (223851).
Breeland, Dr. Samuel G., Cristobal, Panama Canal Zone: 300 biting midges from Panama (230542).
Breese, M. H., Trinidad, B.W.1.: 6 beetles from Trinidad (230251).
Brenes, R. R. (See Heyneman, Dr. Donald)
Brennan, Dr. James M., Hamilton, Mont.: 18 slides of chiggers from Africa, Mexico, and Peru (226479). (See also Hoffman, Dr. Anita Sandoval)
Brennan, Peter D. (See Mills, Ruth T.)
Brierly, Dr. William B., Westborough, Mass.: 9 items of archeological soapstone and diabase objects from Millbury, Worcester Co., Mass. (229344).
Briggs, Dr. John C., Vancouver, Canada: 1 fish, paratype, from San Juanito Island (227108).
(See Florida
(See

<<<Page: 124>>>

Brighton, A. G., Cambridge, England: 8 fossil echinoids from British Somaliland (227559).
Bristol, Lee H., Jr. Myers Company)
Bristol-Myers Co., New York, N.Y.: (Through Lee H. Bristol, Jr.) letter signed by Florence Nightingale, February 16, 1868 (225759).
British Guiana Department of Agriculture, Georgetown: (Through Dr. R. H. McConnell) 12 fishes from British Guiana (226531).
Broadbelt, H. L. and family, Hershey, Pa.: 8 Baldwin locomotive drawings (226968).
Broadley, Donald G. (See National Museum of Southern Rhodesia)
Brock, Vernon E. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Brooke, Mrs. Frederick H.,Washington, D.C.: 2 small Navaho blankets (228125).
Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Paul R. Burkholder) 3 bottles of Antarctic diatoms (225626).
Brooks, Dr. A. R., Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada: 14 insects from Saskatchewan (229473); 46 Hemiptera from Canada (230521, exchange).
Brooks, Herbert B., Washington, D.C.: 3 pieces of electrical apparatus (230389).
Brother Salle)
Brother Fabius, Montréal, Canada: 22 lichens collected at Mount Washington, N.H. (227042).
Brown, Anna M., Upperco, Md.: McKinley memorial pendant (227912).
Brown, Mrs. Donald W., Montross, Va.: Antique truss with unusual gold stamped decoration (226634).
Brown, Glen F., Arlington, Va.: Specimen of the Al Rais, Saudi Arabia meteorite (226321).
Brown, Dr. John C., Los Gatos, Calif.: 7 copepods and 4 barnacles (226055).
Brown, John S. (See St. Joseph Lead Co.)
Brown, Richard M. U.S. Department of the)
(See Bristol-
Alain. (See Colegio de la
(See Interior,
Brown, Robert U., New York, N.Y.: 481 U.S. and foreign postage stamps, first-day covers, and associated philatelic memorabilia (229378).
Brown, Stanley W., Washington, D.C.: 141 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign used postage stamps (230031).
Brown, Dr. W. L., Jr., Cambridge, Mass.: 2 centipedes and 3 ants from New Hampshire and Maine (227421); 29 insects (229809); 12 beetles, 1 millipede, and 5 centipedes from Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone (230025).
Brown, Dr. W.L. (See also Harvard University)
Brown, William L., Washington, D.C.: 2 bison embryos and 2 whitetailed deer (230514).
Brown & Sharpe Manufacturing Ce., Providence, R.I.: (Through George A.
Hawkins) 7 measuring instruments (226405). Browne, Mrs. Robert P., Long
Island, N.Y.: 56 mementos and documents belonging to Chaplain John R. Matthews, USN (226851).
Bruce, George A., Forest Park, Ga.: Fused glass from the first atomic explosion (227408). (See also International Import Co.)
Bruce, James A. Department of)
Brucker, Wilber M. U.S. Department of)
Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., Washington, D.C.: 66 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign stamps, covers, and philatelic material (228254) ; 64 presentation booklets containing 3,420 U.S. stamps autographed by Arthur E. Summerfield, 1957-60 (230469).
Buahin, G. K. A., Kumasi, Ghana: 18 beetles from Ghana (230250).
Buchanan, Dr.W.D. (See Thornton, Dr. M. J.)
Buffalo Historical Society, Buffalo, N. Y.: (Through Kenneth R, Hopkins) 36 miscellaneous buttons and badges of the late 1800’s and early 1900’s (226885).
Buhrer, Edna M.* (See Agriculture, U. 8S. Department of)
(See Defense, U.S.
(See Defense,

<<<Page: 125>>>

Bull, Prof. Hempstead. gan, University of)
Bullerman, Maj. W. D., Waco, Tex.: U.S. 2-cent piece, dated 1868 (225918).
Bullis, Harvey R., Jr. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Bullock, Capt. H. R., Edgewood, Md.: 11 insects, all types, from Japan and Korea (230135).
Bullowa-Moore, Mrs. Catherine, St. Petersburg, Fla.: 766 coins and medals, 3 original designs for commemorative half dollars, 4 engravings by I. B. and F. Piranesi, and 9,388 U.S. postage stamps (228809).
Bultemann, H. W., Bovenden, West Germany: 2 minerals from Germany (230246, exchange).
Bundeminister fiir das Fernmeldewesen. Republic of)
Burbanck, Dr. W. D., Woods Hole, Mass.: 2 polychaete worms, 2 nematode worms, 12 isopods, and 29 amphipods (226299). (See also Emory University)
Burch, Mrs. Rose, Los Angeles, Calif.: 2 marine mollusks from southwestern Australia (226478).
Burgess, Robert H. Marjorie)
Burke, Dr. Horace R., College Station, Tex.: 4 insects, including 2 paratypes, from Anderson County, Tex. (226713, 230529).
Burke, Robert Emmet. Fleda La Verne)
Burkholder, Dr. Paul R. lyn Botanic Garden)
Burks, Dr. Barnard D., Washington, D.C.: 3 beetles and 1 wasp from Maryland (226701); 18 miscellaneous foreign covers (230037).
Burleigh, Dr. T. D. U.S. Department of the)
Burling, George H., Barrington, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) improved scale for draftsmen (226409).
Burnett, Harry. (See Florida State Plant Board)
Burns, Jack F., Pittsburgh, Pa.: Cuban 1-peso scrip, 1869 (226239).
(See Michi-
Postund (See Germany,
(See Borton,
(See Osgood,
(See Brook-
(See Interior,
Burns, Dr. John M., Berkeley, Calif.: 2 pairs of skipper butterflies from South Carolina (226698).
Burns, Robert D., Houghton, Mich.: Cordierite from Geco Mine, Manitouwadge, Ontario (230240).
Burnstine, Bernard N., Washington, D.C.: Mother-of-pearl snuffbox of 1800 (227840); unmarked watch (230379).
Burton, Lt. Col. C. R., Arlington, Va.: 59 documents relating to the career of Nathaniel G. Wilcox (229403).
Burton, Justice Harold H., Washington, D.C.: Cover bearing a ‘free frank” of Edith Bolling Wilson (227585).
Bush, John H. (See Millipore Filter Corporation)
Bush, Romero, Sr. Pablo, Mexico, D. F.: 56 artifacts of the 18th century recovered from the wreck of the Matanceros found off the coast of Yucatan (230275).
Bushey, Harold L., Barbourville, Ky. 2 wooden nickels commemorating the Daniel Boone Festival in Barbourville 1959 (228296).
Bushnell, Mrs. Donald H., Washington, D.C.: Album of trade cards, 19th century (229478).
Buxton, Dr. George M. fornia, State of)
Caldwell, Dorothy, Washington, D.C.: Early 19th-century Staffordshire teapot (225867).
Caldwell, Prof. W. G. E., Saskatoon, Canada: 160 Devonian invertebrate fossils from the Ramparts formation, Canada (228747, exchange).
California, State of, Sacramento: Department of Agriculture: (Through F. L. Blane) 7 fruit flies, including types, from California (230518); (through Dr. George M. Buxton) 10 insects from California (230024); (through Dr. T. C. Fuller) 3 phanerogams from California (226038).
California, University of: Berkeley Campus: 474 phanerogams, 51 grasses, 61 ferns, and 3 cryptogams (225778, 230560, gift-exchange); (through Annetta Carter) 7 ferns from New Guinea (227828); (through Dr. Paul D. Hurd)
(See Cali

<<<Page: 126>>>

71 North American carpenter bees (226622) ; (through G, Thomas Robbins) 16 phanerogams from California (226233). Davis Campus: (Through Dr. Stanley F. Bailey) 1 insect from Utah (225877, exchange); insect, paratype (227761). Los Angeles Campus: (Through Wayne J. Baldwin) 1,104 fishes from the eastern Pacific (225741) ; (through Dr. Boyd W. Walker) 10 fishes from Mexico (226131); 2 fishes from Australia (214442, exchange). Mount Hamilton Campus: (Through Dr, A. E. Whitford) barometer, thermometer, and an anemometer (229396). Riverside Campus: (Through Dr, Paul DeBach) 95 chalcid flies, cotypes, from California (226954).
California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, Calif.: 350 phanerogams, 19 grasses, and 2 ferns collected in California by John Thomas Howell (226748, exchange); 3 ferns from California (227789); (through Dr. Edward S. Ross) 1 insect from the Philippines (225957, exchange).
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif.: (Through Dr. Heinz A. Lowenstam) 27 Cretaceous brachiopods from Madagascar and 1 Recent from off Galapagos Islands (222305, exchange).
Cambridge, Sgt. Philip, Cardiff, Wales: 100 assorted invertebrates from the Mesozoic and Tertiary of Great Britain (230239, exchange).
Cambridge, University of, Cambridge, England: (Through Dr. S. O. Agrell) 56 rocks from Scotland (224247, exchange).
Cameron Iron Works, Inc., Houston, Tex.: (Through W. UL. Reynolds) Christmas tree assembly (230368).
Camp, Howard, Newnan, Ga.: Locomotive builder’s plate and whistle (226090).
Campbell, Lt. Col. J. Duncan, Harrisburg, Pa.: 2 U.S. Navy and 2 USS. Marine Corps bronze collar devices and 23 insignia and buttons (225994, 228953).
Canada, Government of: Department of Agriculture: 194 phanerogams, 36
grasses, and 4 ferns from Canada (213392, 229636, exchange); (through Dr. Henry F. Howden) 1 insect, paratype, from Mexico (226509, exchange). Geological Survey of Canada: (Through Dr, D. J. McLaren) 2 plaster casts of a brachiopod from Canada (229795). National Museum of Canada: (Through Dr. Howard Crum) lichen (228353); 2 lichens collected by C. E. Garton (228646).
Canaris, Dr. Albert G., Corvallis, Oreg.: 21 land snails from Oregon and Washington (226525) ; slide of tapeworm from Killdeer, Coos Co., Oreg. (226670).
Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 2 opals from the White Cliffs, Australia (225607); 6 minerals from Montana, Colorado, Idaho, and Nevada (225733); hemimorphite from Santa Eulalia, Chihuahua, Mexico (227064); 3 minerals from Tanganyika and Uganda (230417).
Carbaugh, Charles E., Fayetteville, Pa.: (Through Dr. J. P. E. Morrison) 2 Spencer rimfire cartridges (227452).
Cardenas, Dr. Martin, Cochabamba, Bolivia: Phanerogam (229628).
Carmichael, Dr. Leonard, WashingD.C.: Cacheted cover commemorating the first Official Missile Mail of the U.S. Post Office Department, June 8, 1959 (225760) ; string of cork floats (226391); parts of the original apparatus used in the United States for recording human electroencephalograms by H. H. Jasper and donor (227074); 14 steel cutlery items (229146); 22 assorted metal splints in wooden box (229394); 2 rifles and 8 carbines, 19th century (229881).
Carmichael, Dr. and Mrs. Leonard, Washington, D.C.: Costumes, costume accessories, and textiles of the 19th and 20th centuries (226521).
Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington, D.C.: (Through Dr. N. L. Bowen) 250 rocks consisting of alkaline oceanics from Mt. Elgon, Uganda (227768) ; (through H. E. D. Pollock) 62 potsherds representing wares and types from the ruins of Mayapan, Yucatan, Mexico (228790).

<<<Page: 127>>>

Carnie, Capt. S. K., New York, N.Y.: 8 roughed bird skeletons from Iran (225706).
Carter, Annetta. University of)
Carter Oil Co. and Jersey Production Research Co., Tulsa, Okla.: (Through Wade W. Turnbull and F. W. Johnson) 11 pieces of geophysical prospecting equipment (230569).
Cartwright, Oscar L., Washington, D.C.: 11 land mollusks from South Carolina (226472); 360 miscellaneous insects collected in Maryland (226721); 4 philatelic covers of Great Britain (228257); 32 tineid moths from Assoteague Island, Va. (229468); 10,000 beetles from North America (229472).
Cary, Mrs. C. Reed, Philadelphia, Pa.: 3 Sphinx moths from the West Indies (230554).
Casorso, Dr. D. Rey, Bogota, Colombia: 26 fresh-water snails from Colombia (226556).
Castellar, Prof. Gilbert. (See Catholic University of America, The)
Castle, Peter. (See Victoria University of Wellington)
Catholic University of America, The, Washington, D.C.: (Through Prof. Gilbert Castellar) 39 pieces of chemical apparatus (229658) ; (through Dr. H. C. Hanson) 38 lichens from Colorado and Virginia collected by Dr. Hanson (222120).
Catts, E. P., Berkeley, Calif.: 10 insects from California (230258).
Causey, Dr. David, Fayetteville, Ark.: Barnacle, holotype (228878).
Causey, Dr. Nell B., Fayetteville, Ark.: 401 centipedes from southern United States (225848, 227128); 51 centipedes and 2 millipedes from various localities (230537).
Cavanaugh, Mrs. W. L. liere, Clara)
Cazier, Dr. Mont A., Portal, Ariz.: 4 insects (229457). (See also American Museum of Natural History)
Centennial Coins, Walla Walla, Wash.: 2 59-cent pieces commemorating the centennial of Walla Walla, 1859-1959 (228810).
(See California,
(See Val-
Central Fisheries Experiment Statien, Pusan, Korea: (Through Won Tack Yang) 28 amphipods (225430).
Central Research Laboratory, Norwood, Mass.: (Through Dr. Edwin R. Willis) 2 cockroaches from the West Indies (226478).
Central Veterinary Laboratory, New Haw, Weybridge, Surrey, England: (Through Dr. John H. Rose) nematode from Great Britain (227231).
Centro Nacional de Agronomia, Santa Tecla, El Salvador: 197 phanerogams and 2 grasses (225856, exchange).
Chamber of Commerce, Buffalo, Wyo.: Souvenir 50-cent piece, 1884-1959 (227990).
Chamber of Commerce, Kansas City, Kans.: 1 50-cent brass token and 3 wooden nickels commemorating the centennial of Kansas City and Wyandotte Co., 1959 (228175).
Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea, Smithsonian Institution: Star orthoclase, cat’s eye orthoclase, cordierite, and white sapphire, from Ceylon (225973, 225974); cut gemstone of microlite and a garnet from Amelia, Va. (226465, 228283); rose quartz from Minas Gerais, Brazil, and spinel from Moguk, Upper Burma (227564); yellow apatite from Durango, Mex., and pale yellow fluorite from Rosiclare, Il. (227771); tourmaline cat’s eye from Brazil (229604); cat’s eye sillimanite from Oconee County, S.C. (229852); 12,510 marine, land, and fresh-water mollusks from New Zealand, and 646 books and reprints dealing with the Recent and fresh-water mollusks of New Zealand (230284); 2,100 marine mollusks from Mangaia, Cook Islands, and Vahitahi, Tuamotu Islands (230349) ; (through Dr. W. J. Clench) 2,180 land and fresh-water mollusks, including 5 paratypes, from Crooked Island group, Bahamas (229621).
Chamberlayne, Dr. Earl C. Pan American Sanitary Bureau)
Chamberlin, Dr. R. V., Salt Lake City, Utah: 3 centipedes, type, from the U.S. (230252).
(See

<<<Page: 128>>>

Chambers, Cal C. ries, Inc.)
Chandler, Henry P., Arlington, Va.: Synthetic carborundum (228792).
Chapman, Joseph R. (See Clayton, Mr. and Mrs. Earl)
Charette, Leopold A., Burlington, Vt.: 1 phanerogam (226629, exchange).
Chase, Philip H., Wynnewood, Pa.: Original contract between S. Straker and Sons, London, and the Confederate States of America regarding the manufacture of chemicograph plates for the
(See Texas Found-
printing of Confederate notes, 1863 (228684). Chaudoin, Robert L., New York,
N.Y.: Souvenir philatelic cover commemorating the establishment of a U.S. Navy Post Office at Hights Coast, Antarctica (229325).
Cheng, Dr. Chang Yu. Research Institute)
Chermock, Frank H., Baltimore, Md.: 6 moths, types, and 5 _ butterflies, ' paratypes, from Pennsylvania and Maryland (226566).
Chesapeake Biological Laboratory, Solomons, Md.: (Through Dr. Frank J. Schwartz) skull and skeleton of a little piked whale from Maryland (230351).
Chicago, University of, Chicago, IIl.: 10 phanerogams collected in Bolivia by Dr. M. C4rdenas (225689) ; (through Dr. Barbara F. Palser) 20 phanerogams from Bolivia (229492).
Chicago Natural History Museum, Chicago, Ill.: 2,582 prints of Macbride type photographs of phanerogams (228972, exchange); 831 phanerogams, 125 grasses, and 2 ferns collected in the U.S. by H. R. Bennett (229634, exchange); (through Dr. Charles H. Seevers) 108 beetles and 78 larvae from Central and South America (230532, exchange); (through Loren P. Woods) fish, holotype, from the Gulf of Mexico (229810).
Christenson, L. W., Cleveland Heights, Ohio: 6 early covers and 3 complete booklets of Japan (226964); 10 reproductions of Japanese local stamps (227802) ; specialized collection of 4,758 Latvia covers, stamps, and related ma-
(See Tobacco
terial (227900); 750 Latvian postage stamps printed on the backs of captured German war maps, and Russian and German bank notes, 1918-20 (228288) ; reproduction of Dr. Ichida’s reference notes of the early postal cancellations of Japan (230470); 4-volume specialized reference collection of the 1-sen postage stamp of Japan, 1872 (230483).
Christian, Dr. John J., Bethesda, Md.: Shrew from Maryland (227440).
Cincinnati, University of, Cincinnati, Ohio: (Through Dr. Leonard Larsen) 284 minerals from England and Iowa (225660, exchange).
Claghorn, George Culton, Morristown, N.J.: Linen tablecloth woven about 1810 (230027).
Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. E., Washington, D.C.: 18 silver and 4 copper ancient and medieval coins (228480, 229650) ; 15 ancient and medieval silver and 12 copper coins, also 4 replicas in silver of ancient Greek coins (229381).
Clain-Stefanelli, Dr. V., Washington, D.C.: 20 miscellaneous postage stamps, meters, and cover (228255); Post Office return receipt and 3 foreign covers (230474).
Claridge, M. F., Oxford, England: 3 chalcid flies from England (226626).
Claringbull, Dr. G. F. (See Great — Britain, Government of)
Clark, Rosamond, Boston, Mass.: 2 Wedgewood plates of the late 18th or early 19th century (229868).
Clark University, Worcester, Mass.: 33 lichens from Massachusetts (227831) ; 96 lichens from Massachusetts (230466, exchange).
Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates, Washington, D.C.: 3 harvestmen, 9 centipedes, and 2 millipedes from Maryland (226946).
Clay, Dr. Theresa. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Clay, Dr. William M. ville, University of)
Clayton, Mr. and Mrs. Earl, Noxon, Mont.: (Through Joseph R. Chapman) 7 lots of trilobites (224497).
Clemson College, Clemson, §&.C.: (Through Frances McAlister) 4 beetles from South Carolina (226482).
(See Louis

<<<Page: 129>>>

Clench, Dr. W. J. (See Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea; Harvard University; and Smithsonian Institution)
Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Cleveland, Ohio: (Through James R. Skelly) 11 birds from Ohio (228729, exchange).
Cleveland Transit System, Cleveland, Ohio: (Through John Peterson) 163 streetcar drawings (229023).
Climpson, Mrs. Harley R., Bethesda, Md., and Yanch, C. Darby, Silver Spring, Md.: Grubbing hoe (230576).
Cloud, Dr. Preston E. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Coch, Dr. Jorge Artigas. versidad de Concepcién)
Cockrum, Dr. E. Lendell, Tucson, Ariz.: 37 mammals from Arizona (228287).
Coe, Dr. Wesley R., Chula Vista, Calif.: (Through Martin W. Johnson) 53 slides of nemertean worms (228274).
Coeyman, Mrs. Emily, Washington, D.C.: Portable high-frequency machine (228483).
Cohen, Dr. Alvin, Pittsburgh, Pa.: Tektite from Nechov, Bohemia (228132). (See also Orcel, Prof. J.)
Cohen, Dr. Daniel M. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the, and Aron, Dr. William)
Colbert, F. A. (See Pulsometer Engineering Co., Ltd.)
Colby, Susan, Washington, D.C.: 2 envelopes and postcard bearing foreign stamps, and philatelic cover of India (229728, 230471).
Cole, Dr. A. C. University of)
Cole, Gordon. (See MinneapolisHoneywell Regulator Co.)
Cole, Samuel, Attica, Ind.: (Through E. R. Honeywell) powder horn (224309).
Colégio Anchieta, Pérto Alegre, Brazil: 34 phanerogams from Brazil (226675).
Colegio de la Salle, Vedado, Cuba: (Through Brother Alain) 2 phanerogams and 5 ferns collected in Cuba by Brother Alain (227333).
Colegio “La Salle,’ Cochabamba, Bolivia: 59 phanerogams and 1 fern
(See Uni-
(See Tennessee,
collected in Bolivia by Dr. Adolpho Jiménez (221025).
Coliege of Medical Evangelists, Loma Linda, Calif.: (Through Dr. Gayle H. Nelson) 24 beetles from southwestern U.S.A. (227416, exchange).
Collignon, Gen. M., Giéres, France: 2 fossil echinoids from the Jurassic of Madagascar (221700).
Collins, Mrs. Frances E., Pawtucket, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) proportional steel rule (226410).
Collins, Mrs. James L., Jr., Carlisle Barracks, Pa.: Jacket from 18th-century caraco dress (224896).
Collins, Jeremiah A., Washington, D.C.: 28 miscellaneous foreign meter impressions (228071).
Collis, Albert, Newburyport, Mass.: Uniface restrike in copper from a socalled Washington cent, 1792 (230463).
Colorado, University of, Boulder, Colo.: (Through Dr. William A. Weber) 206 lichens from Europe and the western U.S. (230447, exchange).
Columbia University, New York, N.Y.: (Through Warren F. Goodell, Jr.) original equipment used in the experiments of Drs. Garwin, Lederman, and Weinrich on the nonconservation of parity in meson decay (230268).
Commerce, U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.: Bureau of the Census: (Through Lowell T. Galt) census sorting machine, tabulator, and 24-column key punch (229657). Coast and Geodetic Survey: (Through R. E. Gebhardt) 27 geodetic instruments (225703); (through Rear Adm. H. Arnold Karo) Talcott zenith telescope and (geodetic) telescope transit (226636) ; 2 paintings and a drawing of geodetic work, survey marker, and an oil painting of USC&GS ship Patierson (230280); (through Dr. Harris B. Stewart, Jr.) 4 lots of reptiles, 5 fishes, 16 mollusks, 5 marine invertebrates, 49 insects, and 5 lots of plants collected in the Swan Islands by members of the oceanographic expedition of the ship “Hxplorer” in March 1960 (229960). National Bureau of Standards: (Through Dr. A. V. Astin) 36 pieces of experi

<<<Page: 130>>>

mental equipment used in research on parity nonconservation in beta decay (217062); (through Dr. Francis M. Diefendorf) early electrical apparatus (228178); (through Dr. Archibald T. McPherson and A. H. Frazier) 6 current meters and 1 gelometer (225869). Weather Bureau: 12 items of meteorological apparatus (228768); (through Robert Wright) 44 meteorological instruments (230396).
Common, Dr. I. F. B., Canberra, Australia: 3 insects, paratypes, from Australia (225851).
Compy, E. Z. W., San Francisco, Calif.: 21 marine mollusks from Kampot, Cambodia (228603).
Conkin, James E., Louisville, Ky.: 115 fossil mollusks and corals from Pavuvu Island, South Pacific (227616, exchange).
Conley, Blaine, Swan River, Minn.: 11 mollusks from the Upper Cretaceous, Mesabi Range near Swan River, Minn. (229358).
Cook, J. Marjorie, Baltimore, Md.: Place card used at graduation dinner of Arundell School, Baltimore, showing donor as a militant suffragist demanding votes for women, 1916 (228686).
Coonley, Mrs. Prentiss, Washington, D.C.: Black dress designed by Norman Norell (228279).
Cooper, Dr. G. Arthur, Washington, D.C.: 327 brachiopods from the Permian of Oregon (228467).
Cooper, Dr. and Mrs. G. Arthur, Washington, D.C.: 2,000 Devonian invertebrate fossils from northern Michigan and Ohio (227239).
Cooper, Dr. Kenneth W., Hanover, N.H.: 39 miscellaneous insects from Florida (226705) ; 129 wasps from Africa (229460); 9,915 specimens of Hymenoptera, worldwide (229469); 95 cuckoo wasps, including holotype, from the U.S. (230021).
Cooper Union Museum, New York, N.Y.: 89 musical instruments (227687).
Coos County Coin Club, Coos Bay, Oreg.: 2 Oregon centennial medals (226963).
Copenhagen, University of, Copenhagen, Denmark: Botanical Museum: (Through Kjeld Holmen) 95 bryophytes (225765, exchange).
Corcoran, Elizabeth, Washington, D.C.: 6 Plains Indian items, 2 Finnish sheath knives and a Tathan & Egg flint lock pistol (227887).
Corea, Luis F., Washington, D.C.: 13 marine mollusks from Israel (227435).
Corgan, James X. (See Sinclair Oil and Gas Co.)
Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. 2 phanerogams (225815); (through Dr. Henry Dietrich) 14 wasps, paratypes (228590, exchange); (through Dr. Edward C, Raney) 1 fish, holotype, from Charlotte Co., Va. (230509, exchange) ; (through Dr. Herbert H. Schwardt) 50,000 insects from various localities (230545) ; (through Dr. John W. Wells) 13 invertebrate fossils from the Devonian of Nevada (228129). Bailey Hortorium: 4 phanerogams (229630, gift-exchange); 69 phanerogams and 3 grasses from Mexico (229633, exchange).
Corrin, Brownlee Sands. (See Goucher College)
Corwin, Gilbert. (See Mason, Arnold C.)
Corwin, W. H. ment Companies)
Cosminsky, Philip R., Falls Church, Va.: Scepter quartz from Lincoln Co., N.C. (227063).
Costlow, Dr. John D., Jr. University)
Cotton, Mrs. Andrew S., Aurora, II: Black and white lithograph of Andersonville Prison (223936).
Cotton, David E. (See Bennie Cotton, Inc.)
Cousley, Sam A., Englewood, N.J.: Campaign necktie, decorated with portraits of President Eisenhower, and inscribed “I like Ike’’ (228813); Taft and Sherman political campaign street banner of 1908 (230493).
Cowen, Mrs. Henry K., Milwaukee, Wis.: Sword and scabbard carried during War of the Revolution by Maj. Gen. Benjamin Lincoln (226019); sword,
(See Taylor Instru-
(See Duke

<<<Page: 131>>>

sword knot, and scabbard presented to Gen. Benjamin Lincoln by Gen. George Washington (227808).
» Cowlin, Dr. R. W. (See Pacific Northwest Forest and Range Experiment Station)
Cox, Claude E., Detroit, Mich.: Overland automobile engine, 1904 (229520).
Crabill, Dr. Ralph E., Jr., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 8 centipedes, including 2 plesiotypes, from California (226486) ; 23 myriapods, spiders, and insects (226724); 175 spiders, 20 scorpions, 13 phalangids, 3 centipedes, and 6 insects (229475); 193 insects, spiders, millipedes and centipedes from Virginia, 1 centipede, paratype, from New Mexico (227417, 230026).
Craig, Dr. Wilfred S., Ames, Iowa: 14 insects from Iowa (225948).
Cramer, Alma H., Washington, D.C.: Length of brocaded silk taffeta (227445).
Craston, John J., Silver Spring, Md.: 4 colemanites from Bigadic, Turkey (229606).
Crawford, Dr. E. A., Jr., Boone, N.C.: 20 ostracods, types (226587).
Cress, Inez Hall, Phoenix, Keyed boxwood flute (227620).
Critchlow, Evan C., Pawtucket, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Darling, Brown & Sharpe caliper square (226411).
Crockett, Joseph P., Alexandria, Va.: Blowgun, 22 darts and quiver, spear, breast covering, and an apron (228917).
Cross, Mrs., Washington, D.C.: Hair bouquet (229611).
Ariz.:
Crowell, A. Harry. (See Fitz, Wyman) Crewley, Harold G., Washington,
D.C.: 2 fish spears from Lake Murray, Papua (228128).
Crown Agents, The, Washington, D.C.: (Through A. J. E. Davis) 67 miscellaneous mint postage stamps of the British Commonwealth (228156, 230480).
Crum, Dr. Howard. Government of)
Cuatrecasas, Dr. José, Washington, D.C.: 1,099 phanerogams, 50 grasses, 27 ferns, and 47 cryptogams from
(See Canada,
Colombia (226750,229626) ; 3,540 phanerogams, 255 grasses, 200 ferns, and 258 cryptogams (230448).
Cumming, Robert B., Gainesville, Fla.: 31 frogs collected in Bolivia by donor (228701).
Cummings, Capt. D. E., Washington,
D.C.: American Express Co. sign (226967). Cureton, F., I, Stockton, Calif.:
Meneghinite from Santa Cruz, Calif. (224818).
Custis, Eleanor P., Washington, D.C.. 40 costume accessories of the 19th and 20th centuries (226079).
Cypert, Eugene. (See Interior, U.S Department of the)
Czayo, Sylvia. (See Azimi, Parviz)
Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Brno, Czechoslovakia: (Through Dr. J. Pelikin) 27 thrips from Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia (225894, exchange).
Dahl, Dr. Richard G:son, Oskarshamm, Sweden: 140 flies from Europe (229890, exchange).
Daman, Mrs. E. E., Louisville, Ky.: Imperial dragon robe (225966).
Damman, A. W. H., St. John’s, Newfoundland: 54 lichens collected in Newfoundland by donor (227466).
Daniels, John, Rutherford, Calif.: Water turbine and a Thomson-Houston generator (225634).
D’ Attilio, Anthony, Valley Stream, N.Y.:5 mollusks from Zanzibar (226470).
Davallon, Parviz, Washington, D.C.: 2 fragments of terra cotta figurines found in the ruins of Shahpour, Shiraz, Iran, Oct. 17, 1950 (226936).
Davidge, Mrs. John W., Washington, D.C.: Uniform of U.S. Navy surgeon, 1835, and naval uniform accessories of early 19th century (225699).
Davies, Dr. William E. U.S. Department of the)
Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents)
Davis, A. M., Pleasant View, Va.: Monazite from Amherst Co., Va. (229445).
Davis, Clifton J. (See Hawaii Department of Agriculture and Conservation)
(See Interior,

<<<Page: 132>>>

Davis, Dr. David E., University Park, Pa.: 2 skulls of young woodchucks (230517).
Davis, Harry T. State Museum)
Davis, Malcolm. Institution)
Davis, Ronald B., Mount Desert, Maine: 141 lichens from Mount Desert (225054, 225608, 227956).
Davis, Walter G., Casper, Cable tool drilling rig (230366).
Dawson, Dr. Charles E. (See Gulf Coast Research Laboratory)
Dawson, Dr. E. Yale. (See Beaudette Foundation)
DeBach, Dr. Paul. University of)
de Barros Mello, Francisco, Santon, Sio Paulo, Brazil: (Through Mrs. Lucille Dudgeon) 21 Brazilian coins in copper, nickel, and silver, and Il Peruvian Sol (228260).
Deblock, Dr. S. (See Université de Lille)
Defense, U.S. Department of: Department of the Air Force: (Through E. A. Seaman and Craig Phillips) 75 fishes from Anchorage, Alaska (227778) ; (through Lt. Col. Frederick S. Wolf) smooth snake from near Taranto, Italy (229727). Department of the Army: Regimental color and a spearhead for the Ansbach-Bayreuth Regiments (223705, exchange); 2 U.S. rifles (226492); portable flame-thrower gun and horse gas mask, World War II models (226768); brass shell case (227253) ; tank model (227254); 3 rifles (227493); Chinese Communist officer’s uniform (227578); inert projectile (227580); 3 howitzer shells (227583) ; (through Lt. Col. Robert G. Blaylock) Mau Mau weapon (227133); German projectile, 3 U.S.S.R. hand grenades, and a Chinese hand grenade (229388) ; (through Wilber M. Brucker) 2 modern Korean vases (2293438); (through Col. Robert R. Robertson) model of a military portable pipeline pumping unit (230372). Army Medical Research Unit: (Through Capt. Vernon J. Tipton) 585 bats from Panama (227779); (through
563136—60——9
(See North Carolina
(See Smithsonian
Wyo.:
(See California,
Lt. Col. Robert Traub) 177 mammals, 48 birds, and insects (225888) ; 65 mammals, bird, and reptile from Durango, Jalisco, and Nayarit, Mexico (229620); 1,846 mosquitoes from Malaya (230520). Office of the Chtef of Engineers: Grass from the Canal Zone (227118). (Through Maj. Thomas G. Murnane) fruit bat from Panama and 2 bats from the Canal Zone (225841, 226230). Depariment of the Navy: 6 items of submarine equipment (228956) ; (through Dr. Cadet Hand) 2,411 medusae, including holotype and 4 paratypes (224901). Bureau of Ships: Photograph and commemorative plaque of the Trieste (229542). Hydrographic Office: (Through James A. Bruce) 3 hydroids, 2 bryozoans, polychaete worm, 14 amphipods, and 2 starfishes (226035); (through Dr. John Lyman) 12 copepods (225559); (through R. R. Rofen) 12,475 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, 4 fishes and 750 mollusks (224443). Navy Medical Research Units: (Through Dr. Robert E. Kuntz) 125 shrimps, 1 crayfish, 39 crabs, 246 bird skins, nest and 5 eggs (225793, 227089); 3 bats from Leyte, P.I. (226474); sea turtle from Bashi Channel, south of Formosa (229407); 301 mammals from Formosa (230352); (through Dr. Robert E. Kuntz and Lt. William H. Wells) 1,270 fresh-water fishes from Taiwan (228143).
DeFoliart, Dr. G. R., Madison, Wis.: 44 black flies from western United States (226725) ; 7 insects (2301386).
Degener, Dr. Otto, Waialua, Oahu, Hawaii: 55 phanerogams, 30 grasses, 25 ferns, and 76 cryptogams (225709) ; 320 phanerogams, 24 grasses, 20 ferns, and 24 midges, from Hawaii, Canada, and Mexico (226947, 229631).
DeGolyer, Everett L., Jr., Dallas, Tex.: Electromagnetic detector (230364).
Deichmann, Dr. Elisabeth. (See Harvard University)
Deignan, Herbert G., Washington, D.C.: Bird (230507).
Delaware County Historical Society, Manchester, Iowa: (Through Homer C.

<<<Page: 133>>>

Platt) Ulysses plaque (225992).
Demaree, Dr. Delzie, Hot Springs, Ark.: 140 grasses (225682); 3 cryptogams, 14 phanerogams, and 57 ferns from the U.S. (229244).
de Mattos, Prof. Ayrton. tuto de Histéria Natural)
de Mellan, Dr. Botma, Johannesburg, Union of South Africa: 31 slides and 2 vials of parasitic mites from South Africa (226324).
Denton, Thomas C., Bethesda, Md.: (Through Mary Mrose) erednerite from Dikel Mine, Morocco (228674).
DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind.: 2 phanerogams, types, from Peru (228164) ; phanerogam, isotype (229374).
de Porry, John J., Falis Church, Va.: “Last Day Cover’? commemorating discontinuance of the Belfast and Moosehead Lake Railroad (229127).
De Santis, Dr. Luis. (See Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Museo)
de Villoutreys, Count, Monte Carlo, Monaco: 40 fossil echinoids from France (227401, exchange).
De Witt, Mr. and Mrs. W., Erie, Pa.: Ivory cribbage board from Nome, Alaska, 1909 (229609).
Dews, Jule, Frederick, Md.: Uncirculated Hawaiian 25-cent piece, dated 1883 (226757).
Diamond Distributors, Inc., New York, N.Y.: (Through Bernard Jolis) black diamond from French Equatorial Africa (229353).
Diaz-Ungria, Carlos. man, Dr. Donald)
Dickinson, Mrs. John A., Bethesda, Md.: 11 items of 19th-century costume (230122).
Dickson, Mrs. Frederick Stoever, II. (See Fahnestock, Mrs. Louis)
Diefendorf, Dr. Francis M. Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Dietrich, Dr. Henry. (See Cornell University)
Dittbrenner, E. E., East Greenbush, N.Y.: 4 Japanese copper amulets, 1 silver coin, 1 copper coin, and 1 gold koban (223507).
S. Grant memorial
(See Insti-
(See Heyne-
(See
Dobrotworsky, Dr. N. V., Victoria, Australia: 6 insects from Australia (225744).
Doering, Richard, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 4 phanerogams from Brazil (230561).
Doering, Walter H. M., Sao Vicente, Brazil: 11 phanerogams from Brazil (227797, 229154).
Doig, Mrs. Arthur, Washington, D.C.: 39 pieces of rose medallion Chinese Export porcelain (225755).
Donahue, Mrs. Lucile King, Arlington, Va.: Pair of hair earrings of mid19th century (229886).
Dorchester Pottery, Dorchester, Mass.: (Through Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Henderson) stoneware garden seat (225866).
Doty, Dr. Maxwell S., Honolulu, Hawaii: 7 marine mollusks from Kwajalein Atoll, Marshall Islands (226471).
Downing, Joseph Dudley, Paris, France: (Through Mrs. Gabrielle Edgcomb) 3 collages by donor (229375).
Drake, Dr. Carl J., Washington, D.C.: 37 miscellaneous United States and foreign covers bearing postage stamps and meter markings (228155, 230032); 3 pieces of glass, a powder horn, powder flask, miniature canteen, shot mold, pistol, and pen (230558).
Dreisbach, R. R., Midland, Mich.: 9 spider wasps from Central and South America, types (226620, exchange).
Driskill, Elvin, Doniphan, Mo.: 2 wooden nickels issued in connection with the Ripley County Centennial, 1959 (228173).
Drooz, A. T. Commonwealth of)
Drummond, Dr. W. C., Los Angeles, Calif.: 2 cultivated ferns (226489, 228799).
Dubois, Lt. Col. George B., Chevy Chase, Md.: Pottery vessel from Cholula Pyramid, Mexico (227059).
Dudgeon, Mrs. Lucille. (See de Barros Mello, Francisco)
Dudley Observatory, Albany, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Curtis L. Hemenway) Hough registering thermometer and Hough registering barometer (229884).
(See Pennsylvania,

<<<Page: 134>>>

Duke University, Durham, N.C.: (Through Dr. C. G. Bookhout) 22 sponges, including holotypes (228116); (through Dr. John D. Costlow, Jr.) 2 crabs (227826).
Dumville, Mrs. B. B., Arlington, Va.: Black fur muff, period 1918-20 (225481).
Dunbar, Dr. Carl O. (See Yale University)
Dunkle, Dr. David H., Washington, D.C.: Skeleton of fossil fish (229597).
Dunkle, Dr. David H., Washington, D.C., and Eggleton, Dr. Richard, Denver, Colo.: Portions of fossil vertebrate from the Triassic of Chantilly, Va. (225661).
Dunn, Mrs. Arthur W., Washington, D.C.: 6 prints by Felix Buhot, Herbert Dicksee, Axel H. Haig, and Max Rosenthal (229502); carved elephant tusk from Congo Free State before 1910 (229608) ; infant’s dress of 1900 (229885).
du Pont, Willis H., Wilmington, Del.: 2,737 Russian coins and medals struck in the name of Czar Peter I, and 11 volumes of Grand Duke Mikhailovich’s monograph on Russian coins (210914).
Durr, Mrs. George, Norwichtown, Conn.: Shelf clock (230381).
Dye, Glenn W., Wildwood, N.J.: 13 U.S. covers franked with different examples of 20th-century local posts (228948); U.S. envelope precanceled Atlantic City, N.J., and U.S. Cadillac local post envelope ‘‘Pony Express Centenary”’ (228804); philatelic cover bearing U.S. local ‘‘Cadillac Post’? honoring the Boy Scouts of America, February 1960 (230270).
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Wilmington, Del.: (Through L. T. Alexander) 9 early samples of nylon made by du Pont (227591).
Eardeley, J. W., Washington, D.C.: 2 posters titled ““Armed Forces Insignia”’ (227581).
Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y.: (Through Keith B. Lewis) Kodak Cine automatic turret camera and Kodak Cine showtime projector (228475).
Edgcomb, Mrs. Gabrielle. Downing, Joseph Dudley)
(See
125 Edmondson, Dr. Charles H. (See Bishop Museum, Bernice P.)
Edwards, Mrs. R. B., Yulee, Fla.: 5 medals (227938).
Eggler, Dr. Willis A. University)
Eggleton, Dr. Richard. Dr. David H.)
Ehmann, Dr. William D., Lexington, Ky.: 7 tektites from eastern Lee, Brazos, and Fayette Counties, Tex. (226560).
Eichner, L. C., Clifton, N.J.: Electrical exercising apparatus (226635, exchange).
Einhorn, Nathan R. Congress)
EKisenhower, President Dwight D., Washington, D.C.: Various items of painting, inlaid and carved wood, stone, pottery and metals, received by the President as gifts from the governments of European and Asiatic countries during his Goodwill Tour of 1959 (229785) ; (through Robert E. Merriam) 49-star flag (226541).
Eisenhower, Mrs. Dwight D., Washington, D.C.: 13-piece porcelain tea service (228851).
Eklund, Dr. Carl R., Arlington Hall, Va.: Dovekie from Greenland (226468).
Elbel, Dr. Robert E., Norman, Okla.: 4 insects, holotype, allotype, and 2 paratypes (230020); 450 bird lice from Thailand (230522).
El-Chichini, Saad. Republic)
Elder, Robert A., Jr., Washington, D.C.: Glass vase from Czechoslovakia, 20th century, and a glass fragment (230557).
Eleutherian Mills-Hagley Foundation, Wilmington, Del.: Saw blade (228494).
Elkins, Edward, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 2 covers franked with “Penny Black” stamps of Great Britain, 1 with red and 1 with black Maltese Cross cancellation (228758).
El-Moursy, Dr. Aly Aly, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada: 4 insects from Egypt (226942).
(See Tulane
(See Dunkle,
(See Library of
(See United Arab

<<<Page: 135>>>

Emerson, Dr. William K. (See American Museum of Natural History)
Emory University, Atlanta, Ga.: (Through Dr. W. D. Burbanck) 23 isopods (227963).
Epstein, Jorge, Boston, Mass.: Chinese ginger jar (229476).
Erben, Mrs. E., New York, N.Y.: Souvenir of the siege of Paris, 1870-71 (229954).
Ermakov, N. P. (See Moscow Government University of M. V. Lomonsov)
Escola de Agronomia do Nordeste, Areia, Paraiba, Brazil: 3 lichens and 9 phanerogams collected in Brazil by Prof. Jayme Coélho de Moraes (224522, 226607); 154 phanerogams and 37 grasses from Brazil (226125, 227093, 229486, 229625).
Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biologicas, Mexico, D. F.: (Through Dr. Federico Bonet) 17 gorgonians and a millepore (228121).
Essex County National Bank, Willsboro, N.Y.: 2 wooden nickels commemorating the 350th anniversary of Willsboro, 1609-1959 (228172).
Estacao Agronémica Nacional, Sacavém, Portugal: 93 phanerogams and 7 grasses from Portugal (226603, exchange).
Estacion Experimental Agronémica, Santiago de las Vegas, Cuba: (Through Julian Acufia) 58 phanerogams collected in Cuba by Julidn Acufia (229869, exchange).
Etherington, Mrs. Edwin Deacen, Washington, D.C.: Doll (228796).
Eustis, Mrs. Martha, Bethlehem, Pa.: (Through Mrs. Robert Seidle) Gold color wedding dress of 1835 (225392).
Evans, Mrs. Clifford, Washington, D.C.: Lappet moth caterpillar from Anne Arundel Co., Md. (227433).
Evans, Dr. and Mrs. Clifford, Washington, D.C.: Necklace, feather band ornament, woman’s pubic covering, and basket for sifting cassava flour from South America (226938).
Evans, Dr. Howard, Washington, D.C.: Triphyllite from Smith Mine, N.H. (225724).
Evans, Dr. Howard E., Ithaca, N.Y.: 6 insects, including type, allotype, and 4 paratypes, from Mexico (230544).
Ewart, Dr. William H., Riverside, Calif.: Approximately 20 insects from California (226533).
Kyerdam, Walter J., Seattle, Wash. 5 crustaceans (228673).
Fabian, Dominick, Portland, Oreg.: First-day cover of the U.S. boy scout stamp (230272).
Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Museo, La Plata, Argentina: (Through Dr. Luis De Santis) 16 thrips, including paratypes, from Argentina and Peru (226804, exchange).
Fahnestock, Mrs. Louis (deceased): (Through Mrs. Frederick Stoever Dickson IT) pink silk trousseau dress of 1873 (225209).
Fain, Dr. A., Antwerp, Belgium: 3 mites, paratypes, from English New Guinea and Belgium (226696) ; 62 mites from Africa (229455).
Fair, J. S., Jr. (See Pennsylvania Railroad Co.)
Farfante, Dr. Isabel Pérez. (See Oficina Fomento Maritimo Cubano)
Farmers’ Museum, Cooperstown, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Louis C. Jones) 14 items of farm machines and implements (213356).
Father Walter W. Kempf, Sa0 Paulo, Brazil: 17 ants, paratypes (226727, exchange); 51 legionary ants from the Americas (227426, exchange). (See also Provincialado dos Franciscanos)
Faure, Dr. J. C. (See South Africa, Division of Entomology)
Feeney, Walter, Irvington, N.J.: 449 first-day covers of United States stamps (228159).
Feinstein, Bernard, Washington, D.C.: 3 birds from Virginia (230248); 28 mammals from Mount Washington, N.H. (230512).
Feist, Irving, Shrewsbury, N.J.: A bird (228357).
Fejos, Dr. Paul. (See Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research)
Felch, Lauren L., Boston, Daguerreotype plate (230261).
Mass.:

<<<Page: 136>>>

Ferguson, Dr. Denzel E., State College, Miss.: 35 salamanders from Oregon, type and paratypes (229409).
Ferlet, L. M., Jdr., San Antonio, Tex.: 8 medusae (226778).
Fernandez-Yépez, Dr. F. (See Universidad Central de Venezuela)
Fessenden, G. R., Baltimore, Md.: 2 ferns (228478).
Figueira, Armando J. G. Muncipal do Funchal)
Figueiras, Prof. Manuel Lopez. Universidad de Oriente)
Filer’s, Redlands, Calif.: 16 minerals from various localities (225975, 226317, 226318, 230001, exchanges), 7 minerals from various localities (228229).
Finland, Geological Survey of, Otaniemi, Finland: (Through Dr. Aarne Laitakari) 5 minerals from Finland (229600).
Fiscker, Dr. Max. torisches Museum)
Fish, Dr. A. Geofirey. University)
Fisher, Avery, Long Island City, N.Y.: Fisher high-fidelity radio phonograph combination (229305).
Fisher, Maj. C. C., Arlington, Va.: 127 Tennessee and 1 Alaskan precanceled stamps, 7 late Bureau prints, and 1 Washington, D.C. local precancel envelope (230468).
Fisher, Dr. Donald W. York, University of)
Fitz, Arthur V. A., St. Simon’s Island, Ga.: Hand telescope (226769).
_ Fitz, Wyman, Washington, D.C.: (Through A. Harry Crowell) 20 pencil sketches of Japanese coastal scenes drawn by Daniel Campbell (229503).
Fix, Carolyn E., Washington, D.C.: Orchid from Virginia (225859).
Fleetwood, Raymond J. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Fletcher, Charles Henry, Newburgh, N.Y.: 2 wooden nickels commemorating the 250th anniversary of Newburgh (225611).
Fletcher, Dr. Harvey, Sydney, Australia: (Through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson) 21 gastropods and casts from the Permian of Australia (227413, exchange)..
(See Museu
(See
(See Naturhis-
(See McGill
(See New
Florida, University of, Gainesville, Fla.: 3 phanerogams from Florida (227786, 230451); (through Harold F. Hirth) 16 amphipods (228369) ; (through Dr. James B. Lackey) cryptogam (225452) ;s (through Dr. Daniel B. Ward) 4 plants (227689, 228904).
Florida State Board of Conservation, St. Petersburg, Fla.: (Through Dr. Robert F. Hutton) 14 copepods, 3 isopods, and 1 shrimp (228539, 228830) ; (through Ronald C. Phillips) 5 bryozoans and 1 isopod (217785); (through Dr. Franklin Sogandares-Bernal) 227 crustaceans from Florida (219039); (through Dr. Victor G. Springer) 2,609 fishes from Florida, collected mostly by Dr. Springer (218896, exchange); 2 gorgonians (224906); 1 fish, paratype, from the Gulf of Mexico (226207).
Florida State Board of Health, Vero Beach, Fla.: (Through Mrs. Nina Branch) approximately 10,000 sand flies from Florida (225911).
Florida State Plant Board, Winter Haven, Fla.: (Through Harry Burnett) 1 lichen (229763).
Florida State University, Tallahassee, Fla.: (Through Dr. R. K. Godfrey) 214 bryophytes from Turkey and the Union of South Africa collected by Dr. Godfrey (226235); (through Dr. Meredith Jones) 4 isopods, a shrimp, and 2 stomatopods (226255).
Flower, Dr. Rousseau H., Socorro, N. Mex.: 5 corals, primary types, from Texas (230413).
Folch-Girona, Joaquin, Barcelona, Spain: 7 minerals from various localities (225939, exchange); 3 unidentified uranium minerals from Villar de las Yeguas, Salamanca, Spain (226562).
Fontenele, Osmar. (See Servico de
‘Piscicultura)
Foote, B. A., Moscow, Idaho: 4 land snails from Idaho (227752).
Ford, Dr. H. G., Battle Creek, Mich.: 3 nasal mites from the U.S. (229465).
Fosberg, Dr. F. Raymond, Washington, D.C.: 22 phanerogams, 1 grass, 29 ferns, and 76 cryptogams (229627, 230450).

<<<Page: 137>>>

Foster, Charles W., Rushville, N.Y.: 2 groups of Seneca Indian shell wampum beads from Ontario Co., N.Y. (226238).
Foster, Mulford B., Orlando, Fla.: 3 phanerogams (226960, 229158).
Foust, Mrs. H. C., Indian Head, Md.: Spirograph motion picture projector (226219).
Franklin, W. Neil. B. D.)
Fraser, Mrs. George B., Washington, D.C.: 3 terracotta vessels and a bronze coin from Italy (229439).
Frazier, A. H. (See Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Fredriksson, Dr. Kurt. Geological Survey of)
Freeland, Lt. Col. Walter K. Walker, Charles M.)
Freeman, Oliver M., Tryon, N.C.: 5 phanerogams and 6 ferns from Florida (229196).
Freeman, Paul. Government of)
Freitag, Charles R., Cheverly, Md.: Phanerogam and fern from Maryland (228479).
French, Charles F., Troy, N.Y.: Proof impression from a 4-subject currency plate engraved in 1823 (226336).
(See Gibbs, Mrs.
(See Sweden,
(See
(See Great Britain,
Friedrichs, Dr. A. V., Jr. (See Louisiana Wild Life aud Fisheries Commission)
Friis, Herman R. (See General Services Administration)
Fritchman, Dr. Harry K., II, Boise, Idaho: 6 marine mollusks, holotype, and paratypes, from California (226927).
Frendel, Prof. Clifford, Cambridge, Mass.: 24 unknown minerals from Texas and an unknown radioactive mineral from Montana (225839).
Frost, Dr. S. W., University Park,
Pa.: 28 miscellaneous beetles (225980) ;
South African scarab from Florida (226715). (See also Pennsylvania State University)
Frye, Prof. Theodore C. ington, University of)
Frymire, Prof. Grady P., Guayaquil, Ecuador: 208 miscellaneous insects from Keuador, 2 marine invertebrates, and
(See Wash-
reptiles (229314). (See also Guayaquil, University of)
Fuller, Robert S., Grand Cayman, B.W.1.: 10 land snails from Grand Cayman (225937).
Fuller, T. C. (See California, State of)
Funkhouser, Karl, Arlington, Va.: Hematite from near Cardiff, and 2 calcite specimens from Llanbarry Iron Mine, Glamorganshire, Wales (226186, exchange).
Furcron, Dr. A. S., Atlanta, Ga.: Twin City, Ga., meteorite, 405 grams (222248, exchange).
Furnish, Dr. William M., Iowa City, Iowa: 56 crabs from the Eocene of Venezuela (229848).
Gaines, Richard V., Mexico, D.F.: 2 minerals from Mexico (223750, exchange); (through Mary Mrose) libethenite on dioptase from Baja California, Mexico (226229); chalcostibite and harmotome from Mexico (228793).
Gailonio, Anthony, Providence, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) metallic triangular architect’s scale (226412).
Galt, Lowell T. (See Commerce U.S. Department of)
Gamble, T. W. Steel Corp.)
Ganier, Albert F., Nashville, Tenn.: Golden mouse from Virginia (227437).
Gans, Edward, Berkeley, Calif.: 10 Byzantine bronze coins (226337) ; medallion representing President Ulysses 8. Grant (229380).
Garber, Paul, Washington, D.C.: Clay and Frelinghuysen campaign ribbon of 1844 (230494).
Garoian, Prof. George, Carbondale, Iil.: 2 lots of tapeworms from herring gulls, holotypes and paratypes, from Michigan (227845).
Garvan, Dr. Anthony, Washington, D.C.: Manuscript entitled Mr. Dooley on the Hague Conference, by Finley Peter Dunne (226491); political campaign kerchief of 1904 and a walking stick of 1888 (227905); tobacco cutter (229360).
(See United States

<<<Page: 138>>>

Garvin, Norman, Rockville, Md.: 8 items of uniforms and equipment of World War I (227451).
Gasch, Manning, McLean, Va.: Woodturning lathe with great wheel and 6 lathe tools (226633).
Gaskins, Thomas, Palmdale, Fla.: Shell of a peninsular turtle from Palmdale (226094).
Gebhardt, R. E. U.S. Department of)
Geekie, Marion Robert, Washington, D.C.: Silver-inlaid snuffbox (228676).
Geer, Prof. Roger L., Ithaca, N.Y.: “Sweet System’? micrometer caliper and auxiliary equipment (229517).
Gehringer, Dr. Jack W. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
General Electric Research Laboratory, Schenectady, N.Y.: (Through J. R. Morgan) replica of the experimental plasma tube of Dr. Irving Langmuir (228179).
General Services Administration, Washington, D.C.: 8 items of men’s and women’s clothing, contemporary (225495); 50 cut stones, mostly amethyst, 2 star sapphires, and 6 shell cats’ eyes (225837); 4 diamonds and 1 lot of diamonds (225971, 230421); gold and diamond necklace and clip, and diamond and emerald necklace and ear clips (226741); 19 miscellaneous firearms (227249); (through Herman R. Friis) 21 maps (230397).
Georgia Department of Mines, Mining and Geology, Atlanta, Ga.: (Through Dr. Vernon J. Hurst) 4 tourmalines from Etowah River, Dawson Co., Ga. (226460, exchange).
Gerber, Mrs. Anna Carr, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 8-blade woodearving knife and a wood chain wall hanging (229801).
Germany, Republic of, Bonn: (Through Bundesminister fiir das Postund Fernmeldewesen) 6 mint stamps of Germany (228153).
Gery, Dr. J. R., Briey, France: 25 fishes, paratypes, from French Guiana (228028, exchange).
Giacomelli, Lorenzo Orestes, Buenos Aires, Argentina: Specimen of the Raco, Argentina, meteorite (226563).
(See Commerce,
Gibbs, Mrs. B. D., Knoxville, Tenn.: (Through W. Neil Franklin) Columbian Exposition lapel ribbon (228108).
Gibbs, Dr. Robert H., Jr. Boston University)
Gibson, Mrs. Barbara Denger, Hyattsville, Md.: Washington National Monument Society certificate dated July 4, 1850 (225861).
Gibson, Mrs. Bethune M., Kensing-
(See
ton, Md.: 126 butterflies from Africa (230023). Gibson, Dr. Gordon, Kensington,
Md.: Carved fork and spoon from Hast Africa (230009); 26 ethnological items from Africa (229340).
Gibson, Dr. William W. feller Foundation)
Gier, Dr. L. J. College)
Gilbert, Dr. Perry, Ithaca, N.Y.: 101 parasitic copepods (228413).
Gilbert & Baker Manufacturing Co., West Springfield, Mass.: (Through Irving C. Jacobs) Springfield gas machine pump and 3 gasoline pumps (230264, 230265).
Giles, Donald. College)
Gillingham, W. J. (See Schlumberger Well Surveying Corp.)
Glazer, Sydney, Brookline, Milling machine (225762).
Godard, Harry W., Winnipeg, Canada: 44 used Canadian official stamps, perforated ‘O.H.M.S.” (225862); 96 mint stamps of Canada (227134).
Godfrey, Dr. R. K. (See Florida State University)
Goldstein, Nathan, II, Greenville, Miss.: 2 United Nations covers honoring Dixipex II (228293).
Gonzalez, Juan G. (See Institute of Marine Biology)
Goodell, Warren F., Jr. bia University)
Gooding, R. U., Seattle, Wash.: 113 copepods, including types (219210); 1 shrimp and 27 callianassids (223028, 225561); 3 marine invertebrates (227962). (See also Humes, Arthur G.)
Goodwin, Dr. Albert F., Gloversville, N.Y.: French Revolution medal com-
(See Rocke-
(See William Jewell
(See Oregon State
Mass.:
(See Colum

<<<Page: 139>>>

memorating the attack on the Tuileries, 1792 (225984).
Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Panama, Republic of Panama: (Through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) 5 bird skins (225676).
Gosline, Dr. William A., Honolulu, Hawaii: Club and spear from Hawaii (225721). (See also Hawaii, University of)
Goucher College, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Brownlee Sands Corrin) material from 1956 Presidential campaign (226888).
Goudey, Hatfield, Reno, Nev.: Callaghanite from Basic Refractories Quarry, Gabbs, Nev. (225914).
Gower, Harry P., Los Angeles, Calif.: (Through Dr. W. T. Schaller) kernite and lesserite from Boron, Calif. (225730).
Graf, A. B., Rutherford, N.J.: 1 plant (223739).
Graninger, Fernleigh. U.S. Department of).
Grant, Maj. Chapman, Escondido, Calif.: (Through Dr. George B. Rabb) 12 lizards collected in Cuba by Lt. Andrew Spielman (230093).
Grant, Gen. U.S., 3rd. (See Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War)
Graul, Werner, Munich, Germany: 6 off-strikes in silver of 10-ducat pieces commemorating historical events (228710).
Graves, Prof. Robert C., Flint, Mich.: Scarab beetle from Illinois (230555).
Gray, Prof. George. (See Yale University)
Gray, Rhoda S., Front Royal, Va.: Infant’s white wool cloak and child’s pink silk dress, late 19th century (226014).
Gray, Robert L. and Refining Co.)
Great Britain, Government of: British Embassy: (Through Brig. J. V. B. Jervis-Read) model of British antiaircraft gun and mount, World War II, made at Military College of Science, Woolwich (220648). British Museum (Natural History): 90 phanerogams from
(See State,
(See Ashland Oil
Africa and South America (225644, exchange); 111 phanerogams and 11 grasses (226682, exchange); 184 photographs of ferns, types (227796, exchange); 3 insects from New York and North Carolina (228825, exchange); (through Dr. G. F. Claringbull) tobermorite from Scotland, rhabdophane and andrewsite from England, thermokalite from Italy (225729, 226228, exchange) ; (through Dr. Theresa Clay) 2 insects, paratypes, from Tasmania (230523); (through Paul Freeman) a fly (225502, exchange); (through J. D. Macdonald) skin of tropical bird (227044, exchange) ; (through Dr. W. J. Rees) gorgonian (227120); (through Dr. Ethelwynn Trewavas) 2 fishes, paratypes, from South America (223821, exchange).
Greaves, Maj. Fielding Lewis. (See Greaves, Nellie D.)
Greaves, Nellie D., Alexandria, Va., and Greaves, Maj. Fielding Lewis, Coke, Gloucester Co., Va.: 500 colonial artifacts excavated by Ivor Noel Hume from a trash pit at ‘“‘Rosewell,’’ Gloucester Co., Va. (228677); 12 miscellaneous bricks from the ruins of ‘“‘Rosewell,”’ Gloucester Co., Va., 1726-44 (230427).
Green, Hugh T., Victoria, Australia: 3 fossil echinoids from the Miocene or upper Pliocene of Australia (229442).
Green, Margaret, Candler, N.C.: 11 lichens from North Carolina (228368).
Greenwell, Sybil M., Washington, D.C.: Velvet ant from Charles Co., Md. (227068).
Greeson, Otis H., Washington, D.C.: Charles P. Ulrich’s aquatint, Cincinnati, U.S.A. (228165); set of brass nested weights (229165) ; chemical mortar sight (229880).
Gregg, Dr. Robert F., Boulder, Colo.: 15 ants from South Dakota (226719).
Gressitt, Dr. J. Linsley. (See National Academy of Sciences) Grice, Dr. George D., Jr. (See
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution) Griffenhagen, George B. (See American Pharmaceutical A'ssociation) Greben, M. M., Arcata, Calif.: Apophyllite from King’s Valley, Oreg. (229269, exchange).

<<<Page: 140>>>

Grove, Dr. J. H. M. J.)
Grunwaldt, Dr. R. W., Munich, Germany: 140 wasps from Manchuria (230171, exchange).
Guagliumu, Dr. P. de Agricultura y Cria)
Guayaquil, University of, Guayaquil, Ecuador: (Through Prof. Grady P. Frymire) bee and 2 beetles from Ecuador (229368).
(See Thornton, Dr.
(See Ministerio
Guillemin, Prof. Claude. (See Université de Paris) Guimaraes, Dr. José Henrique. (See
Instituto Oswaldo Cruz)
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Miss.: (Through Dr. Charles E. Dawson) 251 marine invertebrates (226306); 11 shrimps, 1 callianassid, 5 crabs, 6 sea anemones, and 2 stomatopods (225407, 225593, 228122) ; 62 fishes from the Gulf of Mexico (225533); (through Dr. Donald R. Moore) starfish and crustacean (226805) ;
8 gorgonians, 19 sea anemones, 39 crustacea, 56 echinoderms (211987, 226805).
Gunnell, E. Mitchell, Denver, Colo.: Melonite from Gresson Mine, Cripple Creek, Colo. (230244, exchange).
Gunther, Frank A. (See Meyer, Fred G.) Gunther, Lloyd, Albuquerque, N.
Mex.: 5 gypsum specimens from Lincoln Co., N. Mex. (227409).
Gurney, Dr. Ashley B., Washington, D.C.: 150 Orthoptera, mostly grasshoppers, from Pennsylvania (226694) ; 117 beetles and centipedes from western Massachusetts (226695); small moth from Pennsylvania (226702); 250 insects, mostly Orthoptera, from Virginia and Assateague Island (226703); 6 centipedes from Pennsylvania and New York (226704); 41 centipedes, millipedes, and insect larvae from Kentucky (226723); 340 grasshoppers and ant lions from Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Nevada (227422).
Gutschick, Dr. R. C., Notre Dame, Ind.: 13 sponges, types, from the Lower Mississippian, Sappington formation (228923).
Haas, Ralph M., Crawfordsville, Ind.: Copy of Chicago Tribune, Nov. 2, 1948, bearing the headline ‘‘Dewey Defeats Truman” (227213).
Hackman, Dr. Walter, Helsinki, Finland: 3 flies, paratypes, from Hawaii (226950).
Hagemyer, Richard H., Washington, D.C.: 48 marine mollusks from the Marshall Islands (226812).
Hagen, Richard S. (See _ Illinois, State of) Haig, Janet. (See Southern Cali-
fornia, University of)
Haiti, Government of, Port-au-Prince, Haiti: (Through Haiti Philatelic Agency) 34 mint stamps, 3 covers, and 6 first-day covers of Haiti (226687, 230487).
Haiti Philatelic Agency. (See Haiti, Government of)
Hakulinen, Dr. Rainar, Hameenlinna,
Finland: 50 lichens from Finland (229490, exchange) Hall, Ernest C., Warren, Ohio:
Raplin ice machine, ca. 1900 (228780).
Hall, Jack C., Riverside, Calif.: 64 bee flies from North America (226627).
Hallman, Russell, Bridgeton, N.J.: 2 trial strikings of one-cash pieces made for China (225986).
Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 50 Canadian stamps and first-day covers of the U.S., Canada, and the United Nations (228152, 230481).
Hamilton, William (address unknown): 33 miscellaneous insects from Israel (209859).
Hamner, H. J. Refining Co.)
Hanahan, Jack, Belmont, N.C.: 2 anatases in muscovite and 3 muscovites from North Carolina (225912, exchange); rhodolite and pyrophyllite from North Carolina and autunite from Tennessee (226558, 226742).
Hancock, E. C., Commerce, Tex.: 20 flies from Texas (227023).
Hand, Dr. Cadet. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Handley, Dr. Charles O., Jr., Washington, D.C.: 5 bird skins (226939).
Haneda, Dr. Yota. (See Yokosuka City Museum)
(See Humble Oil and

<<<Page: 141>>>

Hannaney, J., Baghdad, Iraq: 12 mint postage stamps and 1 first-day cover of Iraq (228151).
Hanson, Dr. H. C. (See Catholic University of America, The) Hanzawa, Dr. Shéshir6é, Sendai,
Japan: 1,100 brachiopods, pelecypods, gastropods, scaphopods, and cephalopods from the Tertiary of Japan (228850, exchange).
Hardesty, M. N., Washington, D.C.: Yellow-naped parrot from the Amazon (230508).
Hare, Col. and Mrs. Robert P., III, Washington, D.C.: 255 engravings and a pair of arm chairs (226630, 227069).
Harlan, Justice John M., Washington, D.C.: 152 stampless covers, stamped envelope, postal stationery, and revenue stamps used in Kentucky, 1829-83 (228259).
Harmer, Walter J., Darien, Ga.: 346 land and fresh-water mollusks from Georgia (222527).
Harris, Mrs. Barnett, Clearwater, Fla.: Planarian worm, bryozoan, 2 amphipods, and 28 hermit crabs (226774).
Harris, Dr. Emmett D., Jr., Belle Glade, Fla.: 40 weevil larvae and eggs and 13 weevils from Florida (226262, 226691).
Harris, M. E., Chicago, Ill.: 2 copper tokens commemorating the 100th meeting of the Oak Park Coin Club, Chicago, Tll., 1959 (228811).
Harris, W. B. (See Jones, E. L.)
Hartman, Dr. Frank A., Columbus, Ohio: 137 bird skins and 3 hummingbird nests from Panama (225424).
Hartman, Mrs. George B., Washington, D.C.: Woman’s silk umbrella of the 19th century (229277).
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.: Farlow Herbarium: 8 lichens from St. Helena Island (228945, exchange). Gray Herbarium: 567 ferns collected in Costa Rica by Edith Scamman and in Peru by Dr. and Mrs. Rolla M. Tryon, Jr. (226329, exchange). Museum of Comparative Zoology: (Through Dr. W. L. Brown) 2,120 ants from various regions of the world
(226567, 227420, 229865); (through Dr. W. J. Clench) brachiopod from the Falkland Islands (223638, exchange) ; (through Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann) gorgonian (225373); (through Dr. Giles W. Mead) eel from the Galapagos Islands (226390, exchange); (through Dr. Herbert W. Levi) 5 centipedes from the U.S., Africa, the Caribbean, and New Zealand (226448). Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology: Cast of skull and lower jaw (216545, exchange).
Harwood, P. D., Ashland, Ohio: 3 scarab beetles from Ohio (227781).
Hasselman, B., New Haven, Conn.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Darling, Brown & Sharpe centre gage (226413),
Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Paran4, Brazil: 283 phanerogams, 12 ferns, and 44 grasses from Brazil (223600, 224452, 224453, 226536, 226994, 227688, 228084, 228832, 229572).
Hatten, Charles W. (See Pan American International Oil Co.)
Hattori, Dr. S. (See Hattori Botanical Laboratory)
Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Nichinan-shi, Japan: (Through Dr. S. Hattori) 100 cryptogams (227131, exchange).
Haverschmidt, Dr. F., Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana: 20 small mammal skulls from Surinam (227507).
Hawaii, University of, Honolulu, Hawaii: (Through Dr. Albert H. Banner) 2 isopods (226129); (through Dr. William A. Gosline) 2 fishes, including paratype and holotype, from Hawaii (218914, exchange); (through Dr. Benjamin C. Stone) fern from the Solomon Islands (226332).
Hawaii Board of Commissioners of Agriculture and Forestry, Honolulu: (Through Dr. Michio Takata) 115 fishes, including 3 sharks and 1 stingray from Hawaii (227834).
Hawaii Department of Agriculture and Conservation, Honolulu: (Through Clifton J. Davis) 15 beetles (230347).
Hawboldt, Frank H., Chester, Nova Scotia, Canada: Model of the Hawboldt

<<<Page: 142>>>

hydraulic turbine built by donor’s father in late 19th century (227586).
Hawkins, George A. (See Brown & Sharpe Manufacturing Co.; American Brass Co.; Ashworth, Arthur M.; Barker, Carleton P.; Burling, George H.; Collins, Mrs. Frances E.; Critchlow, Evan C.; Gallonio, Anthony; Hasselman, B.; Jackson, Howard K.; Kern, Chester H.; Kippax, John W.; Lambert, Anthony J.; Lawton, John T.; Nisbet, William; O’Mara, Thomas J.; Shapazian, John M.; Sharpe, Henry D.; and Wood, Albert G.)
Haworth, James A., Lonsdale, R.L.: Darling, Brown & Sharpe caliper square (226424).
Hawthorne, J. W., Wilmington, N.C. (See Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Co.)
Hays, Stuart R., Williamsburg, Va.: Ticket to the impeachment trial of President Andrew Jackson, 1868 (229815).
Hazard, Louisa B., Washington, D.C.: 28 items of costume and household use of the 19th century, and a Cherokee basket (229482).
Head, Mrs. Golden E., Orlando, Fla.: Replica of The New York Herald for April 15, 1865, replica of The Vicksburg Daily Citizen for July 2, 1863, and chromolithograph, Batile of Gettysburg (226765).
Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.: Public Health Service: (Through W. B. Horning) 4 isopods (227695). Arctic Health Research Center: (Through Leonard J. Peyton) 22 bird skins from Old Crow, Yukon Territory (227017); (through Francis 8. L. Williamson) 25 yellow warblers (227018). National Institutes of Health: (Through Dr. Kyle R. Barbehenn) 8 shrews from Montgomery Co., Md. (229453); (through Dr. Bert R. Boone) X-ray film of 8-year-old child showing tetralogy of Fallot, and cardiac catheter (227910). National Microbiological Institute: (Through Dr. William L. Jellison) 11 fleas from North America (229866).
Hebrank, Prof. E. F. University of)
(See Illinois,
Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel: 145 phanerogams, 13 grasses, and 4 ferns from Israel (227893, exchange).
Hecht, Robert E., Rome, Italy: Group of 19 Greek and Greek Colonial bronzes and 1 stater of Tarentum (228174).
Heil Scientific, Inc., St. Louis, Mo.: 37 pieces of chemical apparatus (225570).
Heinmuller, John P. V., New York, N.Y.: Zeppelin flown covers housed in 12 albums (227584).
Heinrich, Dr. E. William, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 5 minerals from Canada, Mexico, New Mexico, and North Carolina (229142).
Heldt, Dr. Thomas J., Detroit, Mich.: 5 mammals from Alaska, Brazil, Oklahoma, and Texas (228932).
Hemenway, Dr. CurtisL. (See Dudley Observatory) Hempel and Wiistefeld. (See Voigt-
lander, A. G.)
Henbest, Lloyd G. U.S. Department of the)
Henderson, Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. (See Dorchester Pottery)
Henderson, E. P., Washington, D.C.: Marcasite concretion from St. George’s, Newfoundland (226320).
Henderson, William A., Jr., Old Greenwich, Conn.: 25 wurtzites and sphalerites from Thomaston Dam, Thomaston, Conn. (225668, exchange).
Hendricks, John G., Boonton, N.J.: 4 minerals from Sterling Hill, N.J. (227995, exchange); 3 minerals from New Jersey (229145).
Henry, W. Barklie. mann, L. R.)
Henzlik, R., Lincoln, Nebr.: 40 ants from North America (225675).
Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajaf, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 744 phanerogams, 124 grasses, and 1 cryptogam from Brazil (223945, 228241).
Herbarium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indonesia: 5,310 phanerogams, 45 grasses, and 453 ferns from Indonesia (224792, exchange).
Hermann, Dr. Frederick J., Beltsville, Md.: 657 phanerogams, 27 grasses, and 1 fern (229487, 230563).
(See Interior,
(See Oster

<<<Page: 143>>>

Herr, Dr. Wilford. (See Max-PlanckInstitut fiir Chemie)
Hewatt, Dr. Willis G., Fort Worth, Tex.: 12 sea anemones (225532).
Heyman, Mrs. Theresa, Oakland, Calif.: 2 early Italian silver coins (229651).
Heyneman, Dr. Donald, Brenes, R. R., and Diaz-Ungria, Carlos, Los Angeles, Calif.: (Through Dr. Gordon H. Ball) holotype of trematode parasite (229237).
Hickey, Ann Maria Hammond (deceased) : (Through Mrs. Lina H. Strong) double-woven coverlet, ca. 1845 (225701).
Higgins, H. C., Keyport, N.J.: 100 land and fresh-water mollusks from the Philippines (228933).
Higgins, Robert P., Durham, N.C.: 3 kinorhynchs, including type and 2 paratypes (223212).
Hightower, J. W., Wilmington, N.C.: Models of a Diesel-Electric Road Switcher locomotive and a pulpwood car (228763).
Hildebrand, Dr. Henry, Corpus Christi, Tex.: 24 aleyonarians (227964).
Hile, Raymond, Washington, D.C.: Inkwell-pen box (230426).
Hill, Louis W., Jr., St. Paul, Minn.: 2 books entitled Highways of Progress and Addresses of James J. Hill (226216).
Hill, Margaret Ellen, Ponape, Eastern Caroline Islands: 32 archeological items from the Island of Kusaie and from Nukuoro Atoll, Eastern Caroline Islands (229339).
Hill, R. E., Albuquerque, New Mex.: 2 wooden nickels issued by the Albuquerque Treasure House, 1959 (228066).
Hilton, Mrs. Michael (deceased): (Through Donald Hilton Young) portion of a Jacquard coverlet, 1852 (228755).
Hinrichs, Hans. (See Museum of Steam and Marine Engineering)
Hirth, Harold F. (See Florida, University of)
Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottesville, Va.: 5 crayfishes, types (229410).
Hodges, Mrs. Grace, Washington, D.C.: Century of Progress playing cards, 6 items relating to the service of Herbert Hodges in World War I, a Civil War pamphlet, an engraved card from Vice President Nixon, and an engraving of the White House (230495).
Hodges, H. H., Costa Mesa, Calif.: 5 serpentines from California (227124, 229355).
Hodges, Ronald, Ithaca, N.Y.: 18 small moths from Arizona and North Carolina (229459).
Hoffman, Dr. Anita Sandoval, Mexico, D.F.: (Through Dr. James M. Brennan) 6 slides, 4 holotypes and 2 paratypes, of chigger mites from Mexico
(226697). : Hoffman, Edwin Michael, Black Mountain, N.C.: Worm snail from
Puerto Rico (228751).
Hoffman, Dr. Glenn L. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Hoffman, Richard L., Washington, D.C.: 130 insects, mostly millipedes and centipedes, including holotypes (230556).
Hoffman, Richard L., Washington, D.C., and Hubricht, Leslie, Baltimore, Md.: 167 insects from Alabama, Tennessee, and Texas (230551).
Hoffmeister, Dr. Donald F., Urbana, Ill.: 4 bats from Illinois and Kentucky (226360).
Holland, Dr. George F. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Holland, Mrs. Joshua H., Washington, D.C., and Weaver, Robert D., Rock Creek Hills, Md.: Blanket chest of the 18th century, a low-post bedstead, and arolling infant chair (220425).
Holmen, Kjeld. (See Copenhagen, University of)
Holmes, Francis W., Amherst, Mass.: 20 used Belgian stamps and 1 mint Belgian stamp (225363).
Holst, Don, Washington, Barbed wire, early type (230572).
Holt, Dr. P. C., Blacksburg, Va.: 70 oligochaete worms, holotypes and paratypes (226289).
Holthuis, Dr. L. B. (See Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie)

<<<Page: 144>>>

Holton, Charles W., Essex Fells, N.J.: Victorian parlor and bedroom suites, including a crystal chandelier, 2 floral paintings (228471).
Holtzclaw, Henry J. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Homan, B. H., Jr., New York, N.Y.: 2,598 proofs and stamps of Saxony (222356).
Homan, C. D., Oglesby, Tex.: 30 invertebrate fossils from the Lower Cretaceous of Texas (227973).
Honeywell, E. R. (See Cole, Samuel)
Hoogstraal, Dr. Harry, New York, N.Y.: 81 centipedes from Egypt (225846).
Hopfinger, John C., Brewster, Wash.: |-
172 insects from Washington (226802).
Hopkins, G. H. E. (See Zoological Museum)
Hopkins, Kenneth R. Historical Society)
Hornibrook, Dr. N. de B., Lower Hutt, New Zealand: 23 slides of New Zealand Foraminifera and 12 Foraminifera (226288, exchange).
Horning, W. B. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Hoskins Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich.: (Through Leslie 8. Morrison) electric furnace, ‘‘Cheerie’”’ toastove, and electric soldering iron (225029).
Hotchkiss, Grosvenor. (See Western Union Telegraph Co.)
House, Dr. Michael R., Durham City, Great Britain: 20fossil cephalopods, including types of goniatites, from New York, Michigan, and the Devonian of Virginia (227892).
Houston, Walter Scott, Manhattan, Kans.: Specimen of the Winkler, Kans., meteorite, weighing 2.7 grams (225667).
Howden, Dr. Henry F. (See Canada, Government of)
Howell, Mrs. Louise Fitz, Southold, N.Y.: Page from record book and 2 account books of Henry Fitz, Jr. (227573, 229524).
Hoyme, Lucile E., Washington, D.C.: Ceramic artifacts excavated from Turf Tavern in Oxford, England (225690).
Hubricht, Leslie, Baltimore, Md.: 98 crustaceans, 3 mollusks, and approxi-
(See Buffalo
mately 50 insects (227697, 229558). (See also Hoffman, Richard L.)
Hull, Dr. Frank M., University, Miss.:3 robber flies, paratypes (223648).
Humble Oil and Refining Co., Houston, Tex.: (Through E. J. Hamner) 13 piecesof geophysical equipment (230370).
Humboldt Universitat zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany: (Through Dr. F. Peus) 16 insects from Germany (227498, exchange).
Humes, Dr. Arthur G., Boston, Mass.: 2,513 crustaceans, including copepod paratypes, and 1 _ lobster
(227965, 228014, 229243).
Humes, Dr. Arthur G., and Gooding, R. U., Boston, Mass.: 27 sea anemones, 2 shrimps, 5 spiny lobsters, 7 callianassids, 26 hermit crabs, and 3 crabs (227541).
Hummelinck, Dr. P. Wagenazar, Utrecht, Holland: 174 flatworms, including paratypes (226005).
Hurd, Dr. Paul D. (See California, University of)
Hurst, Dr. Vernon J. (See Georgia
Department of Mines, Mining and Geology) Huston, Stewart, Coatesville, Pa.:
3 manuscripts pertaining to Coachee (229519).
Hutterly, G. C., Washington, D.C.: Clock (230376).
Huttleston, Dr. Longwood Gardens)
Hutton, Dr. Robert F. (See Florida State Board of Conservation)
Hyland, Dr. K. E., Jr., Kingston, R.1I.: 3 nasal mites, types, from a catbird from Michigan (226624).
Hyne, Mr. and Mrs. John G., McLean, Va.: Young spectacled caiman from Beni River, Bolivia (228555).
Iglehart, Mrs. Susan H. C., College Park, Md.: Wedding dress and veil of the early 19th century (230120).
Illg, Dr. Paul L., Seattle, Wash.: 43 copepods and 4 crabs (225552). (See also Interior, U.S. Department of the; and Washington, University of)
Illinois, State of, Springfield, Il.: Division of Parks: (Through Richard 8S.
Donald G. (See

<<<Page: 145>>>

Hagen) dinner plate owned by General and Mrs. Ulysses 8. Grant (227904).
Illinois, University of, Urbana, IIl.: (Through Prof. E. F. Hebrank) 13 steam engine indicators and 2 gas engine indicators (228496).
Illinois State Natural History Survey Division, Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr. R. W. Larimore) 2 centipedes from Illinois (229367); (through Dr. Lewis J. Stannard) 3 insects from the U.S. and 2 insects from Brazil (226476).
Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.: 2 phanerogams collected in Trinidad by N. W. Simmonds (225686).
Improvement of the Insect Collection Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 12,941 lanternflies (226623).
India, Government of: Geological Survey: (Through Dr. B. C. Roy) 7 meteorites from India (186449, exchange). Government Museum: (Through Dr. 8. T. Satyamurti) 2 paleoliths from India (202973, exchange).
Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Sweden: 64 Swedish postal markings and cancellations and 12 covers bearing special Swedish cancellations (228069, 230361).
Institut Francais d’Afrique Neire, Dakar, French West Africa: (Through Dr. A. Myra Keen) 3 marine mollusks, paratypes, from Senegal, French West Africa (227680).
Institute for Medical Research, Kuala Lumpur, Malaya: (Through W. W. Macdonald) 6 mosquitoes from Malaya (225844).
Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica: Science Museum: 2 phanerogams from Jamaica (225426, 227787) ; 46 phanerogams and 3 ferns from Jamaica (226293, exchange); (through Dr. Ronald P. Bengry) 57 gorgonians (225529, 227105); (through George R. Proctor) 246 ferns collected in the West Indies (228798, exchange).
Institute of Marine Biclogy, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico: (Through Juan G. Gonzdlez) 15 copepods and 7 coelenterate larvae (228877).
Instituto Agrondmico, Minas Gerais, Brazil: 32 phanerogams from Brazil (220896, 225595, 225596); 104 phanerogams and 13 grasses (223534, giftexchange).
Instituto Agronémico do Sul, Pelotas, Brazil: 41 grasses from Brazil (226611).
Instituto Botanico, Madrid, Spain: 16 phanerogams from Spain (226576, exchange).
Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogoté, Colombia: 9 phanerogams from Isla de San Andrés, Colombia (228944, exchange); (through Maria Teresa Murillo P.) 2 ferns from Colombia (223435, 227746); (through Dr. Lorenzo Uribe Uribe) 34 phanerogams and 34 ferns collected in Colombia by the donor (228511).
Instituto de Histéria Natural, Curitiba, Parand, Brazil: 108 phanerogams from Brazil (226196, 228063) ; 24 grasses from Brazil (229488); (through Prof. Ayrton de Mattos) 5 phanerogams (229157).
Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: (Through Dr. José Henrique Guimarées) 10 tachinid flies from Brazil (227415, exchange).
Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Franklin G. Alverson) 192 crustaceans (228880); (through Dr. W. L. Klawe) 154 miscellaneous invertebrates, 32 mollusks, and 3 insects (228272, 228879); (through Dr. Paul N. Sund) 12 chaetognath worms, holotypes and paratypes (227029).
Interior, U.S. Department of the, Washington, D.C.: (Through Ross L. Leffler) die proof and complete sheet of 30 Migratory Bird Hunting Stamps, series 1959-60 (226632). Bureau of Mines: (Through John J. Mulligan)
mummified seal from Taylor Dry Valley, Antarctica (230090). Fish and Wildlife Service: Analytical balance
(230395); salamander and 2 snakes from Okefenokee Swamp, Ga. (226345) ; 10 phanerogams and 11 grasses from Texas (226399); (through Vernon E. Brock and Robert T. B. Iversen) 28

<<<Page: 146>>>

tuna from off Angola, Africa, and sharks from Oceania (223938); (through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 2,226 fishes from the Western Atlantic, brachiopod from the Gulf of Mexico, and thresher shark taken off Petit Bois, Miss. (225026, 228924, 228934); (through Dr. T. D. Burleigh) 44 bird skeletons and 749 bird skins (225792) ; (through Dr. Daniel M. Cohen) 46 marine invertebrates (226996); (through Eugene Cypert) cryptogam from Georgia (228656); (through Raymond J. Fleetwood) yellow bat from southern Texas (229081); (through Dr. Jack W. Gehringer) fish collected at Bonita Beach, Fort Myers, Fla., by Gerry Braden (230353); (through Dr. Glenn L. Hoffman) 11 fresh-water mollusks from West Virginia (227711); (through Dr. Paul L. Illg) poeobioid worm (229321); (through Raymond 8B. Manning) stomatopod, holotype (228054); (through Dr. Richard H. Manville) 72 mammals (230350); (through Dr. Eugene L. Nakamura) 20 fishes from the Marquesas Islands (230355); (through Dr. A. L. Nelson) 166 conchostracans, a copepod, 9 amphipods, and a mollusk (221542); (through Dr. Paul Springer) 19 fresh-water snails from Maryland and Virginia (228044); (through Dr. Donald W. Strasburg) 2 sea anemones and a crab (229594); (through John R. Thompson and Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 6,901 marine invertebrates and 167 mollusks (226053); (through George W. Warner) 7 lampreys from the Koyukuk and Yukon Rivers (225212); (through Dr. Marvin L. Wass) 188 hermit crabs and 40 barnacles (225563); (through Roland L. Wigley) 4 isopods, including holotype, allotype, and paratypes (228109). Geological Survey: 50 minerals from various localities (223939); 3,027 phanerogams, 116 grasses, 63 ferns, 10 cryptogams, and 56 lichens (225712, 226490, 227793); (through Arthur A. Baker) fish from the Cretaceous of Colorado and 2 reptiles from the Permian of Colorado (223533, 227556); 176 minerals from Brazil,
Colorado, Tennessee, and Utah (229143, 229228, 229602); 1,505 rocks and thin sections collected in Clinton and Franklin Counties by A. W. Postel (230181); (through Dr. Preston E. Cloud) 573 marine invertebrates and _ insects (211046); 1,362 slides of Foraminifera studied and described by Helen Tappan (226735); 18 rock and ore samples (227565); (through Dr. William E. Davies) fairy shrimp (225764); (through Lloyd G. Henbest) 20 lots of larger Foraminifera from the late Paleozoic and Mesozoic of North America (225650); (through Dr. Thomas B. Nolan) 20 cubanites from Mackinaw Mine, Snohomish County, Wash. (223332); set of rock samples (225471); 5 bastnaesite specimens from the Open Pit Mine, Mountain Pass, Calif. (226088); 41 minerals from various localities (226089); 29 bottom samples of Foraminifera from the Marshall Islands (226114); 181 rocks from the Marianas Islands, Western Pacific (227215); 11 slides of Recent Foraminifera containing 168 specimens from the Gilbert and Marshall Islands, and Martha’s Vineyard (227513); 19 invertebrate fossils from various localities (227940); 3 chromian antigorites from Wood’s Mine, Lancaster County, Pa. (227991); 12 minerals from various localities (228130); (through A. R. Palmer) salt fly larva and a grasshopper preserved in rock salt from Death Valley, Calif. (229849); (through Dr. Norman F. Sohl) 17 echinoids from the Upper Cretaceous of Alabama (226537) ; (through Ruth Todd) 40 Foraminifera from Saipan (224434, 224489); 126 slides containing Cretaceous and Tertiary ostracodes from wells on the Coastal Plain of North Carolina (226190); 18 Recent brachiopods and microscopic mollusks collected in Alaska by D. J. Miller (226615); 8 rocks from Saipan containing Foraminifera (228331, 228595, exchanges); 4 washed residues containing Foraminifera from the Eocene of Mississippi and Alabama (228597); 122 Foraminifera from the

<<<Page: 147>>>

Tertiary of northern Olympic Peninsula (230414). National Park Service: 235 bottles (229803); 4 lots of stoneware and earthenware utensil and _ kiln furniture fragments excavated from Archer Cottage foundations, Yorktown, Va. (230014); diamond ring (230423); (through John Atkins) 24 jellyfishes (226435); (through James K. Baker) 2 centipedes from Mexico (227569); (through Richard M. Brown) millipede from Oregon (230547); (through Dr. George F. Holland) 2 fleas, type and allotype, from Tooele County, Utah (226477); (through Floyd B. Taylor) fish taken off Cape Hatteras (225224); (through Roland H. Wauer) 15 crustaceans and 30 anostracan branchiopods (225374, 228370).
International Business Machines Corp., New York, N.Y.: (Through D. R. McKay) 21 astrolabes collected by Samuel V. Hoffman (215454).
International Import Co., Forest Park, Ga.: (Through George A. Bruce) sinhalite from Ratnapura, Ceylon (226433, exchange).
Iowa, State University of, Iowa City, Iowa: 99 phanerogams, 33 grasses, and 1 fern collected in Iowa by Dr. Ted Van Bruggen (229635, exchange); 206 phanerogams and 39 grasses collected in Towa by Dr. R. F. Thorne (230257, exchange); (through Hunter Rouse) 2 Risdon and Lesner hydraulic turbines (228902).
Ireland, Robert R., Washington, D.C.: 53 grasses from Kansas (229155).
Irving, Frank N. (deceased) : (Through Mrs. Florence Skougaard) 16 phanerogams and 380 ferns collected in Florida and eastern United States by donor (228679).
Isham, Lincoln, Dorset, Vt.: 2 watches worn by Mary Todd Lincoln and a game box used by Tad Lincoln (225754); check written by Abraham Lincoln to Dr. P. Moran, Springfield, Ill., Sept. 5, 1859 (226763); Robert and Mary Lincoln silver urn and an engraving of Mrs. Abraham Lincoln (227132).
Iversen, Robert T. B. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Jaanusson, Dr. Valdar, Uppsala, Sweden: 38 brachiopods from the Cretaceous of Sweden (227411, exchange).
Jackson, Howard K., Yarmouth Port, Mass.: (Through George A. Hawkins) nut and washer gage (229166).
Jacobs, Dr. George J., North Chevy Chase, Md., and Miyamoto Tomoshi, Hiroshima-Shigi, Japan: 10 scorpions from China (227423).
Jacobs, Irving C. (See Gilbert & Baker Manufacturing Co.)
Jakobi, Dr. Hans, Curitiba, Paran4, Brazil: 8 copepods, types, and 3 syncarids, paratypes (229557).
Jameson, E. W., Jr., Davis, Calif.: 5 small mammals from Japan (226575).
Jardim Bot&anico do Rio de Janeiro, Guanabara, Brazil: 6 phanerogams from Brazil (230050).
Jardin Botanique de l’Etat, Brussels, Belgium: 127 phanerogams and 3 grasses from the Belgian Congo (229870, exchange).
Jarvi, Veikko, Negaunee, Mich.: Mattock (230440).
Jeldes, Dr. F., Los Angeles, Calif.: Nematode worm from Chile (228365).
Jellison, Dr. William L. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, Department of)
Jensen, David E., Rochester, N.Y.: Celestite from Dundas, Ontario, Canada, and hexagonite from Balmat, N.Y. (228128, 228281). (See also Wards Natural Science Establishment, Inc.)
Jersey Production Research Co. (See Carter Oil Co.)
Jervis-Read, Brig. J. V. B. (See Great Britain, Government of)
Jewtraw, Charles, New York, N.Y.: Olympic medal for winter sports awarded to Charles Jewtraw, Jan. 25, 1924, at the Olympic games in Chamonix, France, for the 500-meter speed skating race (213157).
Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de Los Caballeros, Dominican Republic: 51 phanerogams, 7 grasses, and 6 beetles from the Dominican Republic (225750, 225857, 230553).
Johannes Gutenberg-Universitiat, Mainz, Germany: Phanerogam from Colombia (227785).

<<<Page: 148>>>

Johnson, A. W., Santiago, Chile: 3 eggs and 3 species of flamingoes (225740).
Johnsen, Charles E., Washington, D.C.: “World” typewriter (227587).
Johnson, Dr. David H., Washington, D.C.: 47 mammals from southern and western United States (228931).
Johnson, F. W. (See Carter Oil Co.)
Johnson, Dr. G. A. L., Durham City, England: 3 brachiopods from the Carboniferous of England (223769, exchange). .
Johnson, Dr. Martin W. Dr. Wesley R.)
Johnson, Dr. Phyllis T., Balboa Heights, Canal Zone: 100 insects from Panama, (229462, 230530).
Johnson, Dr. Robert A., Urbana, II: 2 fantail flycatchers from Thailand (226326).
Jolis, Bernard. tributors, Inc.)
Jones, E. L., Falls Church, Va.: (Through W. B. Harris) noiseless portable typewriter, early model (230377).
Jones, Mrs. Freeman, Washington, D.C.: Toys, eye-glasses case, needlework samples, pocket, snuff box, parasol, lot of eye glasses, paperweight, pendant, shawl, crochet book and samples of crochet work (227245); toy piano music box, a woman’s cap and engagement calendar, and a baby’s cap and dress (227783).
Jones, Hallie I., Miami, Fla.: Copy of Ulster County Gazette, January 4, 1800 (225697).
Jones, Mrs. Harold P., Milton, Mass.: Letter written by Henry Clay to Col. A. Hamilton, son of Alexander Hamilton, given in memory of Mrs. Jones’ late husband (225217).
Jones, Jack, Youngstown, Ohio: 2 wooden trimes commemorating the Penn-Ohio Numismatic Convention Sept. 25-27, 1959 (226494).
Jones, L.E. (See Neumade Products Corp.)
Jones, Dr. Louis C. Museum)
(See Coe,
(See Diamond Dis-
(See Farmers’
563136—60——10.
139 Jones, Dr. Meredith. (See Florida State University)
Jordan, Donald E., Presque Isle, Maine: 9 wooden nickels commemorating the Presque Isle Centennial, 1859— 1959 (228166).
Joy, Joseph F. (deceased): (Through Mrs. Joseph F. Joy) model of the Joy 4-BU automobile coal-loading machine (230263).
Joy, Mrs. Joseph F. (See Joy, Joseph F., deceased)
Joyce, Morton Dean, New York, N.Y.: 1,390 Tuberculosis Christmas
Seals, and set of St. Pierre & Miquelon stamps (227898) ; 42 photographs of the Embossed Revenue die impressions of the British stamps for use in America, 1765-66 (230033).
Judd, Neil M., Silver Spring, Md.: 25 turquoises from Tiffany Mine, Los Cerrillos, N. Mex. (226538).
K.L.M. Royal Dutch Airlines, New York, N.Y.: Philatelic cover issued to commemorate special flight, Amsterdam to Istanbul and return, Oct. 28-29, 1959 (230035).
Kabata, Z. (See Marine Laboratory)
Kaicher, Mrs. John J. (See Altena, Dr. van Regetern)
Kainen, Jacob, Washington, MceKinley-Roosevelt campaign hammer (225695).
Kaiser Steel Corp., Sunnyside, Utah: 2 natural casts of theropod dinosaur tracks (230164).
Kalshoven, Dr. L. G. E., Blaricum, Netherlands: 2 bark beetles from Java (226729).
Kamman, Walter Th., Washington, D.C.: Young stuffed loggerhead turtle from the mouth of the Catatumbo
D.C.: toy
River, Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela (226075).
Kane, Leonard. (See Sonotone Corporation)
Kaneshiro, Shigeru, Washington,
D.C., and Honolulu, Hawaii: Jew’sharp from the Caroline Islands (227234).
Kansas, University of, Lawrence, Kans.: 273 phanerogams, 11 grasses, and 1 fern from Kansas (228943, ex

<<<Page: 149>>>

change); (through Carl W. Rettenmeyer) 284 ants from the Americas and Africa (227570, exchange); 10 paratypes of muscid flies from Panama (230543).
Kantner, Clayton, New Knoxville, Ohio: Check-row cornplanter and onerow “cornjobber”’ (230441).
Karlin, Dr. Edward J. (See Bowling Green State University)
Karo, Adm. H. Arnold. merce, U.S. Department of)
Keefer, Clarence E. (See Baltimore, City of)
Keen, Dr. A. Myra. Frangais d’ Afrique Noire)
Kelley, Lt. Col. and Mrs. George W., Alexandria, Va.: 14 Korean costume items (229341).
Kellogg, Dr. Remington, Washington, D.C.: 2 squirrels (230511).
Kelly, Dr. H. D. (See Alabama Department of Conservation)
Kelly, James, Dayton, Ohio: 1913 Liberty Head nickel (altered date) and a reproduction of Henry Hintermeister’s painting showing Washington inspecting the first coins (229652).
Kennedy, Harry D., Bishop, Calif.: 14 mountain midges from California (226323).
Kern, Chester H., Central Falls, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Darling, Brown & Sharpe metallic triangular architect’s scale (226414).
(See Com-
(See Institut
Kier, Dr. Porter M. (See Saber, Dr. M.) Kile, Charles O., Yap, Western
Caroline Islands: 321 marine mollusks and 3 corals from Yap and _ Ulithi, Western Caroline Islands (225805). Killip, E. P., Big Pine Key, Fla.: 3 sponges and 5 hydroids (225560). Kiln Club of Washington, The, Alexandria, Va.: (Through Mrs. Philip Y. Lee) covered ceramic jar, designed and produced by Ralph E. Fast (228795). Kimball, Charles P., West Barnstable, Mass.: 165 moths from Florida (227567). Kinkema, Mr. and Mrs. Edward, Grand Haven, Mich.: Wooten patent desk (225756).
Kippax, John W., East Providence, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) speed indicator and bevel protractor (226415).
Kiriakoff, Dr. S. G., Ghent, Belgium: 4 insects (229617, exchange).
Kirkpatrick, Ralph D., Fairmount, Ind.: 16 small mammals from Indiana (228140).
Kisch, Dr. Bruno. Collection, Edward C.)
Klappenbach, Dr. Miguel A. (See Museo Nacional de Historia Natural)
Klawe, Dr. W. L. (See Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission)
Klinck, Richard E., East Haddam, Conn.: 5 uncut four-subject sheets of obsolete notes issued by the Bank of New England, East Haddam, Conn. (228261).
Knight, Capt. Kenneth L., Camp Lejeune, N.C.: 35 harvesting ants from Florida (225672).
Knight, Mrs. Richard, Washington, D.C.: Single action pedal harp (226539).
Knight, Ridgeway, Washington, D.C.: Pair of Venetian glass chandeliers (228756).
Knudson, Arthur F., Kirkwood, Mo.: Journal length gage (227135).
Kobayashi, Prof. Teiichi, Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson) 8 plaster casts from Bunkei, Korea (227412).
Koch, Edward P., Flint, Mich.: Ivory fishhook shank from Aleutian Islands, Alaska (226398).
Koenitzer, Lester, New York, N.Y.: 3 bronze and pottery objects from Teheran, Iran (224145).
Kohn, Mrs. Alan, Tallahassee, Fla.: 59 flies from Arizona (2274380).
Kohn, Dr. Alan J., Tallahassee, Fla.: 30 sea anemones (228859).
Kohn, David, Washington, D.C.: 16 used covers of the Confederate States of America (228950).
Komarek, E. V., Thomasville, Ga.: Pocket gopher from Alabama (227438).
Kordon, Joseph, Norfolk, Va.: 1,061 German necessity notes issued during the inflationary period 1918-23 (227611).
(See Streeter

<<<Page: 150>>>

Koyama, Dr. Tetsuo, Tokyo, Japan: 32 phanerogams and 1 grass from Japan (219339).
Kraus, Dr. Otto. (See Senckenberg Natur-Museum und Forschungs-Institut)
Krauss, N. L. H., Honolulu, Hawaii: 15,097 miscellaneous insects from Central America, Mexico, and the Pacific Islands; also 16 phanerogams and 1 grass (226553, 226958, 227617, 229334, 229805, 230541, 230559).
Krinov, Dr. E. L. (See Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)
Krogstad, Dr. Blanchard O., Duluth, Minn.: 2 adults and 3 larvae of flies from North America (226124).
Krombein, Karl V., Arlington, Va.: 740 moths collected in Arizona and New Mexico by donor; 418 wasps and bees from Arizona; and 1,891 miscellaneous insects from various localities (226952, 227067, 230538).
Kuntz, Lisa A., San Francisco, Calif.: 369 miscellaneous insects from Taipei (229863).
Kuntz, Dr. Robert E., San Francisco, Calif.: 8 packets of wings of butterflies and 30 miscellaneous insects from Formosa (229613). (See also Defense, U.S. Department of)
Kurokawa, Syo, Tokyo, Japan: 220 lichens from Japan (226236, 229624, exchanges).
Kyoto University, Maizuru, Japan: (Through Dr, Kiyomatsu Matsubara) 2 fishes, holotype and paratype, from Japan (226554, exchange).
Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan: (Through Dr. Syoiti Miyamoto) 67 water-striders, tingids, and other bugs from Japan (226732, exchange); (Through Dr. Sadayoshi Miyake) 2 echinoderms from Japan (228900).
LaBerge, Dr. Wallace E., Ames, Iowa: 10 bees (226621, 226730).
Laboratory of Forest Biclogy, Vernon, B.C., Canada: (Through Dr. D. A. Ross) 3 insects from British Columbia (226944).
Lackey, Dr. James B. University of)
(See Florida,
141 Laird, Dr. Marshall. (See McGill University)
Laitakari, Dr. Aarne. Geological Survey of)
Lambert, Albert, Millbury, Mass.: 2 quart bottles of Buffalo Lithia Springs water (228689).
Lambert, Anthony J., Warwick, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Willis odontograph (226416).
Landin, Dr. Bengt-Olof. (See Universitetets Zoologiska Institution)
Lane, Prof. John, Sao Paulo, Brazil:
(See Finland,
83 insects from Neotropical area (225934). Langridge, H. P., Lantana, Fla.:
Partial skeleton of a loon from the Arctic (230506).
Langston, James A., Washington, D.C.: 2 pioneer flight airmail covers, 3 notes issued by Georgia state banking institutions, and a two-dollar note issued by the Confederate States of America (225863, 225990).
Lansdale, Mrs. R. H. (address unknown): Example of woven fiber glass from the World’s Columbian Exposition, 1893 (226752).
Larimore, Dr. R. W. (See Illinois State Natural History Survey)
Larsen, Dr. Leonard. (See Cincinnati, University of)
Lasser, Dr. Tobias. de Agricultura y Cria)
Latham, Dana. (See Treasury, U.S. Department of the)
Lawalrée, André, Brussels, Belgium: 23 ferns from Madeira (227788, exchange).
Lawson, J. W., Morro Bay, Calif.: Copper 20-piastre piece of Khalifa Abdulla A. H., 1302-15 (227468).
Lawton, John T., Pawtucket, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Brown & Sharpe triangular steel rule (226417).
Leahy, Fleet Adm. William D., U.S.N., Estate of. (Through Rear Adm. William H. Leahy) 12 porcelain plates (228937).
Leahy, Rear Adm. William H. Leahy, Fleet Adm. William D.)
Leatherman, Mrs. Sylvia B., South El Monte, Calif.: 3 cultivated ferns and a
(See Ministerio
(See

<<<Page: 151>>>

cultivated phanerogam (226916, 227896, 229160).
Leavens, Manuel 8.)
Lee, Mrs. Philip Y. of Washington, The)
Leffler, Ross L. Department of the)
Lekagul, Dr. R. Boonsong. Saha Karn Bhaet Clinic)
Lemos de Castro, Dr. Alceu, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 6 shrimps (226989)
Lenox, Ine., Trenton, N.J.: (Through T. Stephen Neale) ‘‘Collector’s Demitasse,’’ dinner plate, cup, and saucer in “Sculpture” pattern (225917).
Lenz, Alfred, Princeton, N.J.: 226 invertebrate fossils from the Canadian Arctic, Mackenzie Valley, Northwest Territories (226734).
Leonard, Emery
John M. (See Roberts, (See Kiln Ciub (See Interior, U.S.
(See
C., Washington,
D.C.: 762 miscellaneous cryptogams (230566).
Lester, Dr. V. L. (See Thornton, Dr. M. J.)
Levi, Dr. Herbert W. (See Harvard University)
Levick, Dudley, Cincinnati, Ohio: 12 minerals from various localities (230243).
Levinson, A. A., Freeport, Tex.: 2 todorokites from Cuba (227994).
Lewis, Alan, Honolulu, Hawaii: 47 marine invertebrates (228273).
Lewis, Mrs. J. H., Iowa Park, Tex.: Spoon commemorating the Louisiana Purchase (230360).
Lewis, Dr. John B. (See McGill University)
Lewis, Keith B. (See Eastman Kodak Co.)
Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.: (Through Nathan R. Hinhorn) illustrated triangular bandage of the National First Aid Association of America and 5,291 miscellaneous used and unused foreign stamps (228300, 229877) ; (through L. Quincy Mumford) 473 envelopes bearing miscellaneous United States and foreign stamps (226334).
Liebermann, Dr. Jose, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 2 grasshoppers, topotypes, from Argentina (226706).
Limbaugh, Conrad. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Linck, Robert, Villanova, Pa.: 3 cuprites from Riese River, Nev. (225967).
Linde Co., Tonawanda, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Frederick A. Mumpton) 5 minerals from California and Nevada (229450).
Lindquist, Evert, Berkeley, Calif.: 14 mites from Alaska (229471).
Lindquist, H. L., New York, N.Y.: Collection of 4,128 United States covers (227901).
Lindroth, Dr. Carl H. (See Universitets Zoologiska Institution)
Lindsay, Dr. Dwight M., Georgetown, Ky.: 105 small mammals from southern Indiana (227439).
Lingebach, J. C., Washington, D.C.: 2 bird skins and 8 mammals from Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia (230130, 230515).
Lintz, Dr. Joseph, Jr., Bandung, Indonesia: (Through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson)
29 fossil invertebrates, topotypes (227558). Lipscomb, Mrs. Rufus C., Silver
Spring, Md.: 5 items of winter service dress uniform worn by donor as a Yeomanette during World War I and 2 World War I medals presented to donor (225761, 227906).
Lipsky, Charles H., Galesburg, IIl.: 64 sales-tax tokens of various states and 23 provisional sales-tax tokens issued in Illinois from 1933-35 (226758, 226962).
Little, Dr. Elbert L., Jr. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
Little, J. C. (See Waterbury Buckle Co.)
Llano, Dr. George A. Research Council)
Lecal Committee for Ale’ Hrdlitka. (See National Museum Society in Prague)
Locke, R. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Ring
(See National
from the Drake Well drive pipe (226580).
Lockhart, Dr. P. B. (See Thornton, Dr. M. J.)
Lockwood, Mr. and Mrs. Newton L., Plainville, Conn.: Hopkins & Alfred Clock Factory Building (226926).

<<<Page: 152>>>

Lodge, Mrs. J. S., Washington, D.C.: White silk and lace stole, late 19th century (226387).
Lommasson, Dr. Robert C. Nebraska, University of)
Longwoed Gardens, Kennett Square, Pa.: 10 cultivated ferns and 3 cultivated phanerogams (226535, 228801) ; (through Dr. Donald G. Huttleston) 16 ferns and 2 cryptogams (229371).
Loomis, H. F., Miami, Fla.: 142 centipedes, 3 scorpions, 141 millipedes, 3 beetles, 32 miscellaneous insects, and 12 marine invertebrates, including types, from various localities (226483, 226484, 226568, 226718, 227425, 227429, 230019, 230519).
Lorimer, Ralph S., Washington, D.C.: Etching of H.M.S. Britannia (230047).
Louisiana Polytechnic Institute, Ruston, La.: 81 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 1 fern from Louisiana (226577, exchange).
Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, La.: 6 phanerogams and 1 fern from Mexico (230258).
Louisiana Wild Life and _ Fisheries Commission, New Orleans, La.: (Through Dr. A. V. Friedrichs, Jr.) 5 crabs (229278).
Louisville, University of, Louisville, Ky.: (Through Dr. William M. Clay) fish from Kentucky (228470).
Lowenstam, Dr. Heinz A. (See California Institute of Technology)
Lowenthal, Milton, Washington, D.C.: Working model of a cigar vending machine and other items relating to the Havana Consumers Co., founded by donor’s father (229612).
Lucio, Alvaro, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through Mary Mrose) Magnesite from Brumado, Brazil (228794).
Ludwig, Saul, Montclair, N. J.: 408 photographs of New England gravestones, with accompanying descriptive list (226036).
Lundeberg, Dr. Philip Karl, Washington, D.C.: 2 Naval International Code flags (229505).
Lundell, Dr. C. L. search Foundation)
(See
(See Texas Re-
Lush, Mr. and Mrs. Stanley G., Silver Spring, Md.: 2 chalcedony pseudomorphs after coral, from Tampa Bay, Fla. (225734).
Lyman, Frank, Dozier, Ala.: 6 land snails from Washington (227549).
Lyman, Dr. John. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Lynch, Dr. J. E., Seattle, Wash.: 42 marine invertebrates, holotype and paratypes (228078).
M. W. Robinson Co., Inc., Rockfall, Conn.: (Through J. V. C. McKinney) form milling cutter and drill chuck (228493).
Macdonald, J. D. tain, Government of)
Macdonald, W. W. for Medical Research)
MacDougall, Allister F., Westford, Mass.: 17 farm implements and 9 tools (230322).
MacFadden, Mrs. Fay, Los Angeles, Calif.: 598 mosses from western United States (226330, exchange).
MacGinitie, Prof. and Mrs. G. E., Friday Harbor, Wash.: 24 marine invertebrates and 3 mollusks (226034).
Mack, Millard H., Cincinnati, Ohio: 15 philatelic covers with Cincinnati postal markings, 1847-82 (229654).
MacLulich, Dr. D. A., Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: 2 cotypes of a tapeworm
(See Great Bri-
(See Institute
from Algonquin Park, Ontario, Canada (226999).
Malkin, S., Washington, D.C.: 3 apple parers (229364).
Mangor, Elovius. (See Norway, Government of)
Manning, Raymond B. (See Inter-
ior, U.S. Department of the; and Miami, University of)
Manning, S. A., Kingham, Oxon, England: 35 lichens from — Britain (229319, exchange).
Manville, Dr. Richard H. terior, U.S. Department of the)
Mardres, Randy, Hyattsville, Md.: Fossil clam from the Tertiary of Florida (223024).
Marine Laboratory, Aberdeen, Scotland: (Through Z. Kabata) 2 copepods (226128).
(See In

<<<Page: 153>>>

Mario, Aru Carlo, Cagliari, Italy: 19 used stamps of Italy (226113).
Maris, Mrs. William, Santa Barbara, Calif.: 2 Philippine Mestiza costumes collected by donor (227916).
Marks, Dr. Elizabeth N. Queensland, University of)
Marks, J. H. (See Post Office Department)
Martin, David W., Hollandia-Binnen, Netherlands New Guinea: Stag beetle from Dutch New Guinea (228929).
Martin, G. C., Invercargill, New Zealand: 35 lichens from New Zealand collected by G. C. Martin (225749, exchange).
Martin, Joel Mann, Key West, Fla.: Medusa (227269).
Martin, Thomas A., Bayside, Va.: 2 marine snails from Saipan, Marianas Islands (225960).
Martof, Dr. Bernard S., Athens, Ga.: 23 salamanders from Rabun Co., Ga. (226389).
Mason, Arnold C. (deceased): (Through Gilbert Corwin) piece of Yapese stone money (227555).
Mason, Frank A. (See National Highway Post Office Society)
Mason, Mrs. Walter, Rochester, Ind.: 9 pen flourishings by Peter J. Stingly, 1893 (228031).
Massachusetts, University of, Amherst, Mass.: (Through Dr. Marion E. Smith) 3 bumblebees, including type and 2 cotypes, from Central America (227572, exchange).
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through Dr. Harold C. Weber) model of Dubbs’ clean circulation process (230267).
Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture, Hadley, Mass.: 7 agricultural implements and devices of an early period (230323).
Massey-Ferguson, Inc., Racine, Wis.: Wallis Cub tractor (230439).
(See
Matsubara, Dr. Kiyomatsu. (See Kyoto University) Max-Planck-Institut fiir Chemie,
Mainz, Germany: (Through Dr. Wilford Herr) Ramsdorf, Germany, meteorite (227343, exchange).
Max-Planck-Institut fiir Meeresbiology, Wilhelmshaven, Western Germany: (Through Dr. Karl Strenzke) 12 midges from Germany (230552).
Maytrott, Warren W., Vineland, N.J.: Trunk section of a Golden Larch tree (229648).
Mazak, Vratislav. (See Natural History Society of National Museum)
McAlester, Dr. A. L., New Haven, Conn.: (Through Jean M. Berdan) 9 microslides of ostracods, topotypes, from the Lower Helderberg of Indian Ladder, N.Y. (228922).
McAlister, Frances. College)
McBride, Col. Harry A., Washington, D.C.: 26 locomotive photograph albums (228816).
McBurney, W. S. Greenwich, N.Y.: 3 wooden nickels commemorating the Greenwich Sesquicentennial, 1809-1959 (226854).
McCall, Francis J., Washington, D.C.: 62 miscellaneous United States and foreign stamps, covers, and other philatelic items, also presentation program and 28 miscellaneous foreign and domestic covers (228068, 230477).
McCarthy, Mrs. Eileen M., Washington, D.C.: 254 United States and foreign postal meters (228157).
McCauley, Mrs. A. L., Portland, Oreg.: Postage stamp, 11 color trials, progressive plate proofs of Liberia, and four trial color proofs of Croatia (229177).
McCauley, James E., Corvallis, Oreg.: Holotype and paratype of trematode parasite (229300).
McConnell, Dr. Duncan, Columbus, Ohio: Analyzed mastodon tooth from Ohio (229599).
McConnell, Dr. R. H. (See British Guiana Department of Agriculture)
McCord, Mrs. W. N., Washington, D.C.: English pewter spoon of the 16th century (229799).
McCoy, Mrs. Ethel B., New York, N.Y.: Stampless cover of American Colonial posts with letter dated 1764 (230476).
(See Clemson

<<<Page: 154>>>

McCullough, John B. (See Society of Motion Pictures and Television Engineers Historical Museum Committee, The)
McDermott, Frank A., Wilmington, Del.: Insect, holotype, from Paraguay (230528).
McDonough, Ruth, Washington, D.C.: Wooden coffin mask from Egypt (229438).
McElvare, Rowland R., Southern Pines, N.C.: 76 miscellaneous moths from Texas (226475).
McGetrick, Frances, Lanark Village, Fla.: White linen handkerchief, 19th century (226080).
McGill University, Montreal, Canada: Bellairs Research Institute: (Through Dr. A. Geoffrey Fish) 5 shrimps (225790, 229235); (through Dr. John B. Lewis) 2 gorgonians (229750). Macdonald College: (Through Dr. Marshall Laird) 4 diatom samples from the Canadian subarctic (225947).
McGonigal, Mrs. Virginia E., Ann Arbor, Mich.: 9 costume accessories and 3 textiles of the 20th century (226520).
McGuinness, Albert, Eugene, Oreg.: 14 minerals from California, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington (228347, 229345, exchanges).
McKaig, W. W., Cumberland, Md.: Section of railroad from Mt. Savage, Md. (227375).
McKay, D. R. (See International Business Machines Corp.)
McKee, Dr. H. S., Sydney, Australia: Phanerogam from New Caledonia (227895).
McKenney, Charles A., Winchester, Va.: 2 etchings by Axel H. Haig and an etching by Alfred L. Brunet-Desbaines (229377).
McKinney, J. V. C. Robinson Co., Inc.)
McLaren, Dr. D. J. Government of)
MeNally, Lt. Col. James B., Ft. Belvoir, Va.: 6 ethnological objects from the vicinity of Oro Bay, New Guinea (227406).
(See M. W.
(See Canada,
McNamara, Robert T., East Cleveland, Ohio: Silver medal commemorating Alaskan statehood, 1959, and silver medal commemorating Hawaiian statehood, 1959 (228067, 230460).
McPherson, Dr. Archibald T. (See Commerce, U.S. Department of)
McReynolds, Robert G. (See Bell, Ralph C.)
Mead, Dr. Giles W. (See Harvard University)
Mearns, David C., Washington, D.C.: Gold and jet Lincoln memorial pin (229384).
Meen, Dr. V. B. Museum)
Meese, Norman S., San Francisco, Calif.: Marine mollusk from Saipan, Marianas Islands (226653).
Mehra, Prof. P. N. (See Panjab University)
Mehta, Dhirubhai, Bombay, India: 3 first-day covers of India (230040).
Melburn, M. C., Victoria, B.C., Canada: 106 lichens and fungi from Vancouver Island (226394, 228029).
Melson, William, East Riverdale, Md.: Tourmaline from Baltimore Co., Md.; tremolite from quarry on grounds of Maryland School for Boys, Baltimore, Md.; and quartz from near Berkeley Springs, W. Va. (225970, 226739, 226744).
Merrett, P., London, England: Holotype of insect from Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone (230539).
Merriam, Robert E. (See LEisenhower, President Dwight D.)
Merrick, Lt. Col. Henry S., A.U.S., Ret., Washington, D.C.: Aluminum teaspoon (228234).
Messrs. A/S Thor Dahl, Sandefjord, Norway: (Through Hinar Vangstein) ambergris samples (229369).
Meyer, Dr. D. E. (See Botanischer Garten und Museum)
Meyer, Fred G. (deceased): (Through Frank A. Gunther) 47 items of the Boynton and Plummer shaper and auxiliary equipment (228489).
Miami, University of, Miami, Fla.: (Through Raymond B. Manning) 3 crustaceans (230155); (through Dr.
(See Royal Ontario

<<<Page: 155>>>

John E. Randall) 25 mysids and 3 lots of stomach contents (225372); (through Dr. C. Richard Robins) 12 fishes from the Gulf of Mexico (225524); (through Dr. Gilbert L. Voss) 23 isopods and holotype and paratypes of 31 shrimps (226100).
Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 318 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 4 ferns from South America and Malaysia (226747, gift-exchange); (through Prof. Hempstead Bull) 9 items of electrical apparatus (230388); (through Dr. Robert R. Miller) 2 eels, including 1 paratype, from Japan, and 2 fishes, paratypes, from Mexico (200497, 227198, exchanges); 7 shrimps (227389); (through Leo Natonson) patent plate (229661); (through Clarence M. Taube) 30 fishes from Michigan and vicinity (223218, exchange); (through Dr. Warren H. Wagner, Jr.) 3 ferns (229586).
Midwestern © University, Wichita Falls, Tex.: (Through Dr. J. Lloyd Watkins) 4 crustaceans from Pleistocene sediments (227514).
Mielke, Russell. Institution)
Mihalyi, Charles Z., Glenfield, N.Y.:
(See Smithsonian
2 World War I, Lewis Co., N.Y., medals (228954). Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington,
D.C.: 16 U.S. stamped envelopes and items of postal stationery, 6 pieces of woven strip carpeting, a piece of woven tape, a stoneware jar, a broadcast seeder, 2 cigar formers, and 2 hay forks (228291, 228675, 230573).
Miles, Oliver A., East Liverpool, Ohio: 2 wooden nickels commemorating the 15th anniversary of the East Liverpool Coin Club (230461).
Millay, Norma, Austerlitz, N.Y.: Robe and slippers worn by Edna St. Vincent Millay (229119).
Miller, Mr. and Mrs. Eston, Newport, N.C.: 9 giant Eocene oysters from Pollocksville, N.C. (227557).
Miller, Hal, Golden, Colo.: Thorite from the Anna Lee Mine, Wet Mountain, Colo. (227062).
Miller, Mrs. John G., Alexandria, Va.: Korean table candlestick, a pair of floor candlesticks, and a Japanese tea and wine warming container (229342).
Miller, Dr. Richard Gerdon, Carson City, Nev.: 319 fishes from the Antarctic collected by donor (227031).
Miller, Robert N., Washington, D.C.: Banister-back armchair (229480).
Miller, Dr. Robert R. (See Michigan, University of) Millipore Filter Corp., Bedford,
Mass.: (Through John H. Bush) Hydrosol stainless filter holder and a package of Millipore filters (230390).
Mills, J. F., Washington, D.C.: 1 garden tub (226628).
Mills, Ruth T., Washington, D.C.: (Through Peter D. Brennan) 9 first flight and special event covers (228070).
Milmere, Henry L., Washington, D.C.: Lincoln clock (230380).
Milton, Dr. Charles, Washington, D.C.: Apophyllite and prehnite from Bull Run Stone Company Quarry, near Manassas, Va. (228748).
Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria, Caracas, Venezuela: Instituto Botdnico: 55 phanerogams, 3 legumes, and 2 ferns from Venezuela (224455, 225677, 225854, 226745, 226959, 226993, 227442, 227622, 227794, 228160, 229156, 229496, 229622, 229629, 229812, 230029); (through Dr. Leandro Aristeguieta) 3 phanerogams (225748, 227958); (through Dr. Tobias Lasser) phanerogam from Venezuela (210574). Centro de Investigaciones Agronomicas: (Through Dr. P. Guagliumu) 9 miscellaneous insects (227619).
Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulater Co., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Gordon Cole). electrical resistance Pyrometer-controller (227076).
Minnesota, University of, Minneapolis, Minn.: 43 phanerogams, 6 grasses, and 2 cryptogams from the western U.S. (230443, exchange).
Mishou, Frank H., Arlington, Va.: Pair of silver spectacles (227454).
Missbach, George E., Atlanta, Ga.: 3 Confederate covers including one stampless (227902).

<<<Page: 156>>>

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Mo.: Phanerogam from Panama (229489).
Mitchell, Bernard, Falls Church, Va.: Collection of projectiles, fuzes, primers, and army medical supplies, Civil War ammunition and equipment totaling 229 specimens (226832).
Mitchell, E. A., Jr. Bessie B.)
Mitchell, Dr. T. B., Raleigh, N.C.: 2 bees from North Carolina (225371).
Miyake, Dr. Sadayoshi. (See Kyushu University)
Miyamoto, Dr. Syoiti. University)
Monaco, Government of, Principaute de Monaco: (Through Office des Emissions de Timbres-Poste) 52 mint postage stamps and 1 first-day cover of Monaco (228158).
Montana State College, Bozeman, Mont.: 1 grass from Montana (225777).
Montgomery, Dr. Arthur, Easton, Pa.: 8 minerals from Dixon, N. Mex., and 2 scheelites from California (227127, 227560, 228211).
Montgomery, Steven L., South Bend, Ind.: 1 rodent bot fly from South Bend, Ind. (230533).
Montreal Botanical Garden, Mont real, Canada: 11 phanerogams (225683, 225916, 226234); (through Dr. Marcel Raymond) cultivated phanerogam and 2 cultivated ferns (225885, 228800); 10 photographs of phanerogams (226331, exchange).
Moore, Dr. Donald R., Ocean Springs, Miss.: 26 brachiopods from Campeche Bank, Gulf of Mexico (226737). (See also Gulf Coast Research Laboratory)
Moore, Edward W. J., Haslingden, England: 37 Carboniferous goniatites from England (225666, exchange).
Moran, Dr. Reid. (See Natural History Museum)
Moreland, Helen F., Essex, Mass.: Beer mug and a Christmas-tree ornament (229800).
Morgan, J. R. (See General Electric Research Laboratory)
(See Boyd,
(See Kyushu
Morgan, Robert S., Wilmington, Del.: Grover Cleveland = street banner (229878).
Morioka, H., Kyoto, Japan: 5 skins of Japanese birds (226941).
Morris, Capt. Emerson E., Arlington, Va.: 69 etchings by Pierre van der Borcht (227692, exchange).
Morris, Leslie, New Bern, N.C.: Coral from North Carolina (228075).
Morris, Mrs. Ray Thomas, Washington, D.C.: 2 swords of the Civil War period (229389).
Morris, Stanley, Vernon, N.Y.: 33 brackish water snails from Florida (230197).
Morrison, Dr. J. P. EK. baugh, Charles E.)
Morrison, Leslie S. Manufacturing Co.)
Morse, Dr. Leighton B., Washington, D.C.: Harness maker’s tool (230371).
Moscow Government University of M. VY. Lomonsoy, Moscow, U.S.S.R.: (Through N. P. Ermakov, G. P. Barsanov, and §S. M. Stishov) 10 minerals from the U.S.S.R. (223865, exchange).
Moscow State University, Moscow, U.S.S.R.: (Through Prof. N. N. Plavilstshikov) 35 fresh-water fishes from the U.S.S.R. (230131, exchange).
Moser, John C. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
Moser, Louise G., Washington, D.C.: 19th-century Staffordshire sugar bowl (225865).
Moyer, Andrew J. (deceased): (Through Mrs. Andrew J. Moyer) agate from Brazil (230247).
Moyer, Mrs. Andrew J. Andrew J., deceased)
Moyle, Richard W., Iowa City, Iowa: 50 brachiopods from the Lower Permian, Brewster Co., Tex. (227125).
Mozley, Dr. Alan, Schenectady, N.Y.: © 368 fresh-water mollusks from southern Canada (223023).
Mrose, Mary, Washington, D.C.: Dufrenite from the West Phoenix mine, England, and pickeringite from eight miles west of Mt. Everest, Nepal
(See Car-
(See Hoskins
(See Moyer,

<<<Page: 157>>>

(225838, 228791). (See also Denton, Thomas C.; Gaines, Richard V.; and Lucio, Alvaro)
Muesebeck, Dr. Carl F. W., Washington, D.C.: 8 miscellaneous foreign covers (230045).
Muhlenberg College, Allentown, Pa.: (Through Prof. Robert L. Schaeffer, Jr.) 1,097 phanerogams, 95 grasses, 73 ferns, and a cryptogam from Pennsylvania and New Jersey (227130).
Mulligan, John J. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the) Mulliken, Helen P., Washington,
D.C.: Snuffers and tray (229362).
Mumford, L. Quincy. (See Library of Congress)
Mumford, Russell E. University)
Mumm, Robert Jurgen, Pendleton, Oreg.: 2 goldine and one silver oxide plate medals commemorating Oregon’s statehood centennial, 1859-1959, issued for the Hamley trophy saddle at the Pendleton Roundup (228808).
Mumpton, Dr. Frederick A. Linde Co.)
Munro, Dr. H. K. (See Union of South Africa, Government of)
(See Purdue
(See
Murillo P., Maria Teresa. (See Instituto de Ciencias Naturales) Murnane, Maj. Thomas G. (See
Defense, U.S. Department of) Murray, Dr. Grover E., Baton Rouge, La.: 4 brachiopods from the Mississippian of Tamaulipas, Mexico (224742); (through Jean M. Berdan) 6 pieces of fossiliferous Silurian limestone from Ciudad Victoria area, Mexico (225976).
Murray, Dr. J. J., Lexington, Va.: 2 bird skins (225949, 227312).
Murray, William S., Hyattsville, Md.: 5 insects from the Belgian Congo (230137).
Museo Botanico, Cérdoba, Argentina: Phanerogam from Argentina (229485).
Museo de Historia Natural “Javier Prado,” Lima, Peru: 243 phanerogams, 5 grasses, and 6 cryptogams (221241, 221438, 221999, 222569, 224539).
Museo Nacional de Historia Natural, Montevideo, Uruguay: (Through Dr.
Miguel A. Klappenbach) 5 land snails, paratypes, from Uruguay (228580).
Museu Municipal do Funchal, Madeira: (Through Armando J. G. Figueira) 7 shrimps (228881, 229556).
Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 349 phanerogams from Brazil (223679, 225023, 225037); (through Dr. Fernando Segadas-Vianna) 82 grasses from Brazil (225474).
Museu Paraense “Emilio Goeldi,’’ Belém, Parad, Brazil: 29 phanerogams (218975, 227757).
Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France: 2,515 phanerogams, 144 grasses, and 1,450 ferns from America, Indochina, and Madagascar (223419, 227444, gift-exchanges) ; (through Dr. Gilbert Ranson) 9 pearl oysters from Hikueru Atoll, Tuamotus (228394, exchange); (through Dr. Jean Roman) 30 fossil echinoids (228876, 229596, exchanges); (through Mme. Tardieu-Blot) 1,600 tropical ferns from America (229873, exchange).
Museum of Steam and Marine Engineering, St. Louis, Mo.: (Through Hans Hinrichs) 2 Maihak steam engine indicators, 1906 (229655).
Muzeul National de istorie Natural “Grigore Antipa,’’ Bucharest, Rumania: (Through Dr. M. Bacescu) 75 marine invertebrates (226806, exchange).
Myers, Dr. George S. (See Stanford University)
Naf, Dr. Institute)
Nagatomi, Akira, Sasayama, Japan: 13 snipe flies from Japan (225853).
Nagie,L.M. (See Nagle Brothers)
Nagle Brothers, Erie, Pa.: (Through L. M. Nagle) Nagle steam engine
Ulrich. (See Rockefeller
(228958).
Nakamura, Dr. Eugene L. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the) Namegata, Tomitareo, Chiba-ken,
Japan: 32 Japanese ferns collected by donor (226488, exchange).
Nash, Arthur C., Washington, D.C.: 9 pastel drawings by Mrs. Arthur C. Nash (226642).
National Academy of Sciences, Washington, D.C.: Pacific Science Board:

<<<Page: 158>>>

(Through Dr. J. Linsley Gressitit) amphipod, holotype (226921).
National Cash Register Co., The, Dayton, Ohio: (Through S. C. Allyn) 5 cash registers (225455).
National Geographic Society. Arnhem Land Expedition)
National Highway Post Office Society, Gorham, Maine: (Through John E. Slavin) 124 philatelic covers bearing First Trip Highway Post Office cancellations (229161, 229511); (through Frank A. Mason) 4 unused cacheted envelopes prepared for use on Highway Post Office first trips (230486).
National Institut Ossolinski, Wroclaw, Szewska, Poland: Bronze medal commemorating the inauguration of the television station of Lower Silesia, at Wroclaw, Poland, 1957 (226659).
National Museum, Manila, Republic of the Philippines: 111 phanerogams, 20 grasses, 31 ferns, and 4 cryptogams (226237, exchange).
National Museum Society in Prague, Czechoslovakia, Committee of the Section of Anthropology, and Local Committee for AleS Hrdli¢éka Celebration, Humpolec, Czechoslovakia: (Through Dr. Miloslay RuZek) bust of Dr. Ales Hrdliéka by Milan Knobloch (226153).
National Museum of Southern Rhodesia, Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia: (Through Donald G. Broadley) 22 reptiles and amphibians from Southern Rhodesia, including paratype of snake (227829, exchange).
National Research Council, Washington, D.C.: (Through Dr. George A. Llano) 385 specimens of plankton (225462).
National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C.: (Through Dr. Burton W. Adkinson) neutrino detector tank and its associated equipment (230365); (through Dr. Alan T. Waterman) Brussels exhibit ‘Diffusion Cloud Chamber” (224510).
Natonson, Leo. (See Michigan, University of)
Natural History Museum, San Diego, Calif.: (Through Dr. Reid Moran) 1 grass from Socorro Island (227575).
(See
Natural History Society of National Museum, Prague, Czechoslovakia: (Through Vratislav Maz4k) 23 mammals from Czechoslovakia (227489).
Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria: 50 grasses and 100 cryptogams (228752, exchange); (through Dr. Max Fischer) 201 parasitic wasps from Europe (225516, 226657, 230550, exchanges); (through Dr. Rudolf Petrovitz) 3 insects (228987); (through Otto M. Sokol) 5 frogs from Austria and 1 lot of tadpoles from Africa (227848, exchange).
Neal, Marie C. seum, Bernice P.)
Neale, T. Stephen. (See Lenox, Inc.)
Nebraska, University of, Lincoln, Nebr.: (Through Dr. Robert C. Lommasson) cultivated fern (226328).
Nees, Rev. Russell, Henderson, Ark.: 2 scarab beetle larvae from Arkansas (225651).
Nelson, Dr. A. L. U.S. Department of the)
Nelson, Dr. Gayle H. of Medical Evangelists)
Nerney, George E., Attleboro, Mass.: Darling, Brown & Sharpe Jeweler’s gage (226423).
Netherlands, Government of, The Hague: Netherlands Postal and Telecommunications Service: 2 mint postage stamps of the Netherlands commemorating Refugee Year (230489); (through D. Bosma) 14 mint postage stamps of the Netherlands (228148).
Neumade Products Corp., New York, N.Y.: (Through L. E. Jones) film polisher and cleaner, editing board, and a 35mm synchromaster model (228753).
Newbill, Mrs. Leona D., Fort Lauder-
(See Bishop Mu-
(See Interior,
(See College
dale, Fla.: Phanerogam and _ fern (227532). Newcombe, Elizabeth W. (See New-
combe, Helen R.)
Newcombe, Helen R. and Elizabeth W., Washington, D.C.: 2 Victorian sofas and 4 side chairs (215795).
Newman, William A., Berkeley, Calif.: 37 barnacles, including types, shrimps, and crab (227696, 229824).

<<<Page: 159>>>

Newsom, Gene, Paragould, Ark.: Fossil echinoid from Arkansas (228107).
New York, University of, Albany, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Donald W. Fisher) slab of sandstone containing specimens of starfish from the Devonian of New York State (225739).
New York Botanical Garden, New York, N.Y.: 512 phanerogams (227092, 227148, 228065, 229495); 186 phanerogams collected in South America by Dr. Bassett Maguire (229152, exchange); 70 phanerogams from Venezuela and Brazil (229733, gift-exchange) ; (through Dr. Clark T. Rogerson) 2 cryptogams from Mexico (228512).
New York University, New York, N.Y.: (Through Prof. Lyle B. Borst) 8 late 19th-century retort holders (225803).
Niagara County Committee, Niagara Falls, N.Y.: 50-cent souvenir coin and 3 wooden nickels commemorating the Old Fort Niagara Bicentennial (226754).
Nicholson, Alice Denison, Washington, D.C.: Coral and gold pin given to Letitia Christian Tyler by her husband John Tyler (226764).
Nicholson, Desmond, St. Johns, Antigua, British West Indies: 2 fragments of gorgonians and 67 shrimps (225527).
Nicol, Dr. David, Carbondale, IIl.: 75 fossil plants from the Pennsylvanian of Illinois (225840).
Nicolai, G., Amapa, Brazil: Pyrolusite from Serra de Navio, Brazil (226559).
Niedersichsisches Landesamt fiir Bodenforschung, Hannover, Germany: (Through Dr. O. Seitz) 8 plaster casts of clams from Europe (228391, exchange).
Nielsen, Stewart, Provo, Utah: 20 lichens from Utah (228201).
Nisbet, William, Pawtucket, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Darling, Brown & Sharpe square steel rule (226419).
Nishishimamoto, Dr. Shinsho. Ryukyu Islands, University of)
Noguchi, Prof. A., Kumamoto, Japan: 7 mosses, isotypes, from Japan (230562, exchange).
(See
Nolan, Dr. Thomas B. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Nonveiller, Guido. (See Université de Belgrade)
Noren, Carl A., Fresno, Calif.: Annabergite from Goodsprings, Nev. (230011, exchange). ;
Norman L. Armstrong, Ltd., Vancouver, B.C., Canada: (Through David H. Barbour) 2 ambergris samples (228030).
North Carolina, University of, Chapel Hill, N.C.: (Through Dr. Harry W. Wells) 8 sponges (228119).
North Carolina State Museum, Raleigh, N.C.: (Through Harry T. Davis) dust from the Moore Co., N.C., meteorite (226286).
North Dakota, University of, Grand Forks, N. Dak.: (Through Dr. G. C. Wheeler) 21 ants from North Dakota (225745, exchange).
North Dakota Agricultural College, Fargo, N. Dak.: 40 phanerogams, 9 grasses, and 1 fern from North Dakota (227542, gift-exchange); (through Dr. R. L. Post) 22 beetles from North Dakota (229464).
Norway, Government of: Norwegian Embassy: (Through Elovius Mangor) 2 Norwegian stamps commemorating ‘“Tefugee aid’ (229952). Norwegian Postal Department: (Through Elovius Mangor) 4 mint stamps of Norway (227358); (through Torfinn Oftedal) 12 stamps and 4 postcards and letters (225641, 228618).
Norweb, Hon. and Mrs. R. Henry, Cleveland, Ohio: 733 Canadian silver and copper coins (227848) ; 69 Canadian Communion tokens, 1 Higley threepence token, 1737, 3 Mexican silver pesos, and 5 Latin American and Portugese gold coins (228262); 3 Canadian gold coins (228760).
Oberholser, Dr. Harry C., Cleveland, Ohio: 12 miscellaneous used foreign revenue stamps (227450).
Oboler, Arch, Studio City, Calif.: Kurnakovite crystal from Boron Open Pit, Boron, Calif. (227410).

<<<Page: 160>>>

O’Brien, H. M., Comanche, Tex.: Specimen of the Scurry County, Tex., meteorite (161367).
Oehser, Paul H., Washington, D.C.: 50-soles note of Peru, 1951 (228805).
Offenbacker, John, Sidney, Ohio: 12 farm machines and implements (230574).
Office des Emissions de TimbresPoste. (See Monaco, Government of)
Oficina Fomento Maritimo Cubano, Playa Habana-Bauta, Cuba: (Through Dr. Isabel Pérez Farfante) 14 crustaceans
(227827).
Oficina Sanitaria Panamericana, Mexico, D.F.: (Through Dr. D. J. Pletsch) 28 mosquitoes from Mexico (227427).
Oftedal, Torfinn. (See Norway, Government of)
Ogburn, Mrs. William Fielding,
Washington, D.C.: 19 French, American, and English bronze medals and plaques and 29 ethnological items (229383).
Ogden, Warren G., North Andover, Mass.: Milling cutter (228495).
Ohio State Museum, Columbus, Ohio: Cast of shoveler-duck effigy pipe from Ohio (229437).
Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, Okla.: 87 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and 5 ferns (228802, exchange).
Old, William E., Jr., Norfolk, Va.: 4 starfishes, 61 crustaceans, 8,220 miscellaneous mollusks, and 3 shell ornaments from the New Hebrides (224321, 228018); 9 invertebrate fossils from the Ordovician of Melville Peninsula, Arctic, and 6 brachiopods from Australia (228920).
Oliver, Mrs. John B., McLean, Va.: Dresses and lingerie from a trousseau of 1925 (227463).
Oliver Corporation, Chicago, IIL: Hart Parr tractor made in 1903 (230442).
Olsson, Richard K., New Brunswick, N.J.: 44 Foraminifera, holotypes, from the Upper Cretaceous and Lower Tertiary of New Jersey (229352).
Oman, Dr. P. W. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
O’Mara, Thomas J., Cranston, R.I. (Through George A. Hawkins) Darling, Brown & Sharpe metallic triangular scale (226418).
O’Neal, William, Cobalt, Idaho: (Through John S. Vhay) Ludlamite from the Chicago Zone, Blackbird Mine, Cobalt, Idaho (225731).
Orangetown Fire Co. No. 1 of Nyack, The, Nyack, N.Y.: 2 50-cent tokens issued in celebration of the 125th anniversary of the Orangetown Fire Co. No. 1 (226759).
Orcel, Prof. J., Paris, France: (Through Dr. Alvin Cohen) specimen of the Tatahouine, Tunisia, meteorite (228248).
Oregon. State College, Corvallis, Oreg.: (Through Donald Giles) 3 sponges, including holotype (228118).
Orquideario Catarinense, Corupé4, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 3 phanerogams from Brazil (230449).
Ortmann, Clara, Cochecton, N.Y.: Black satin apron, 19th century (225557).
Osgood, Fleda La Verne, Washington, D.C.: (Through Robert Emmet Burke) Andrew Jackson ‘‘Veto Bill of the United States Bank’ as issued by St. Louis Press, August 1832 (225694).
Ostermann, L. R., Westbury, L.L, N.Y.: (Through W. Barklie Henry) model of a steam pumping engine (230375).
Cit, Joseph H., Berlin, N.J.: Adjustable level (229167).
Owens, Mary Dale, Dunedin, Fla.: Navaho Indian silver bead and crescent necklace (228616).
Ozabal, Mrs. Emory, Washington, D.C.: 5 items of Czechoslovakian costume (228352).
Pacific Northwest Forest and Range Experiment Station, Portland, Oreg.: (Through Dr. R. W. Cowlin) 104 miscellaneous insects from South America (226700).
Packer, C. A., Forked River, N.J.: 3 buttons and 7 tools from wreck off Manasquan, N. J. (228252, 230276).

<<<Page: 161>>>

Paddy, Nevin, Belleville, Ill.: 6 brachiopods from the Pennsylvanian of Illinois (224912).
Palmer, A. R. Department of the)
Palmer, Ernest J.. Webb City, Mo.: 20 grasses from Missouri and 75 land and fresh-water mollusks from Missouri and Mexico (216239, 227082).
Palser, Dr. Barbara F. (See Chicago, University of)
Pan American International Oil Co., New York, N.Y.: (Through Charles W. Hatten) 300 invertebrate fossils from the Devonian of the Spanish Sahara, vicinity of Semara (229440).
Pan American Sanitary Bureau, Washington, D.C.: (Through Dr. Earl C. Chamberlayne) 18 mammals from Venezuela (230510).
Panjab University, Amritsar, India: (Through Prof. P. N. Mehra) 61 ferns (227790, exchange).
Park, Anna, Washington, D.C.: Pair of porcelain compotes (225692).
Park, Dr. Orlando, Evanston, IIl.: 15 miscellaneous scarab beetles (229615).
Parke, Davis and Company, Detroit, Mich.: Early drug samples showing development of Chloromycetin (225757).
Parnau, John L., Stockton, Calif.: 6 antlerites from Buchanan Mine, Madera County, Calif. (229444); 25 minerals from Nevada and Washington (230416).
Parsons, Dr. Will. (See Wayne University)
Pascheck, Carl. Department of the)
Patrick, John, Berkeley, Calif.: Prosopite with fluorite and a topaz from Greenland; also blue wulfenite from Tsumeb, South West Africa (223662, 225968).
Patterson, Frank E., Dhahran, Saudi Arabia: 38 mint postage stamps of Afghanistan (228289).
Patterson, Dr. P. M., Hollins College, Va.: Moss from Hawaii (230444).
Paul, Alice, Washington, D.C.: 13 issues of ‘‘The Suffragist”’ and a copy of “Lifting the Curtain’ by Caroline Katzenstein (229646).
(See Interior, U.S.
(See Treasury, U.S.
Peabody, Frank, Cincinnati, Ohio: Autograph presentation album of Emperor William I and Empress Augusta of Germany, containing a medallion done by Otto Rasmussen (228952).
Peacocke, Maj. Harold Gilchrist. (See Tappa, Mr. and Mrs. Albert)
Pease, Mrs. Evelyn, Oxon Hill, Md.: Barred ow! (229365).
Pechuman, Dr. L. L., Lockport, N.Y.: Fly from California (225852, exchange).
Peck, Robert, Washington, D.C.: Envelope bearing U.S. one-cent stamp of 1851 (229814).
Pedder, Dr. A. E. H., Calgary, Alberta, Canada: Coral, type, from the Paleozoic of Alberta, Canada (229959).
Pedersen, Dr. John R., Manhattan, Kans.: 4 moths from Kansas (228928).
Peffly, Dr. R. L., Dhahran, Saudi Arabia: 14 reptiles from near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia (226185).
Pelikan, Dr. J. (See Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences)
Pefia, Dr. Luis E., Santiago, Chile: 2 tiger beetles, paratypes, from South America (230022).
Pendleton, Mrs. Grace Reid, Falls Church, Va.: Plaid dress of 1870 period
(223347). Penn, Dr. George H. (See Tulane University) Pennsylvania, Commonwealth of,
Harrisburg, Pa.: (Through A. T. Drooz) 3 insects from Pennsylvania (227241).
Pennsylvania Railroad Co., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through J. §. Fair, Jr.) locomotive “Pioneer,” 1851, and the Camden and Amboy Railroad Coach, 1836 (230385).
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pa.: (Through Dr. 8. W. Frost) 12 beetles (225842).
Pepper, Bill, Columbus, Ohio: 21 United States postage stamps (228947).
Perkins, Philip, Washington, D.C.: 14 sponges, sea anemones, crabs, and tunicates, and 5 mollusks (226783).
Perloff, Louis, Winston-Salem, N.C.: Plagionite from Germany and diaphorite

<<<Page: 162>>>

with sphalerite from Czechoslovakia
(227238, exchange).
Perrygo, Watson M., Washington, D.C.: 2 bats from Hllerslie, Md. (230513).
Persson, Dr. Herman. (See Swedish Museum of Natural History)
Peter, Mrs. Armistead, Jr., Washington, D.C.: 6 silver and bronze medals, 3 U.S. political buttons, and 3 coins from Canada and Turkey from the Paul Bartlett memorabilia (230363).
Peters, Harry T., Jr. (See Peters, Mrs. Natalie W.)
Peters, Mrs. Natalie W., Webster, Mrs. Natalie P., and Peters, Harry T.., Jr., New York, N.Y.: 1,626 American prints from the Harry T. Peters collection, ‘‘America on Stone’’ (228146, 229033).
Peterson, Cornelius. Department)
Peterson, John, Cleveland, Ohio: Conductor’s signal bell for street railway car (228764). (See also Cleveland Transit System)
Peterson, Mendel L., Washington, D.C.: 109 marine invertebrates and 2 mollusks from Jamaica (226690, 226784); scrapbook containing letters from Capt. Isaac Hull to the Secretary of the Navy, 1813, obituary of Lt. Comdr. William Burrows, and an article on the Enterprize and Boxer (227801); reproduction of “Andre” medal (228757) ; autographic register (228938) ; liner for parka worn by donor in Task Force 39 exploring the Antarctic in 1947-48 (229163).
Peterson, Wallace W., Milwaukee, Wis.: (Through Mrs. Wallace W. Peterson) Dollond microscope (229021).
Peterson, Mrs. Wallace W. (See Peterson, Wallace W.)
Petrovitz, Dr. Rudolf. historisches Museum)
Peus, Dr. F. (See Humboldt Universitat zu Berlin)
Peyton, Leonard J., Anchorage, Alaska: 3 bird skins (227777). (See also Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
(See Post Office
(See Natur-
Phan-Thanh-Tanh, Captain, Fort Benning, Ga.: 6 unused stamps of Vietnam (226099).
Phelan, M/Sgt. Thomas F., MacDill Air Force Base, Fla.: 38 corals from the Tertiary of Ballast Point, Fla. (228134).
Philip, Dr. Cornelius B., Hamilton, Mont.: 49 horse-flies from the Orient (224227).
Phillips, Craig. Department of)
Phillips, Dr. Haskell C. Peay State College)
Phillips, Mrs. Mary Adams, Fairbanks, Alaska: 2 WAF uniforms and accouterments (226887).
(See Defense, U.S.
(See Austin
Phillips, Robert M., Washington, D.C.: 511 Lepidoptera from Burma (230546).
Phillips, Ronald C. (See Florida
State Board of Conservation) Piccard, Jacques. (See Walsh, Lt.
Don)
Pisarski, B. (See Polish Academy of Sciences)
Platt, Homer C. (See Delaware County Historical Society)
Plavilstshikov, Prof. N. N. (See
Moscow State University)
Pletsch, Dr. D. J. (See Oficina Sanitaria Panamericana; and Taiwan Malaria Institute)
Plugge, John Ade, Chevy Chase, Md.: Siamese cat (228139).
Plummer’s Minerals, San Diego, Calif.: Quartz with inclusions of goethite from Villa de Ouro, Mato Grosse, Brazil (225972).
Pocock, Alfred E., Oxford, Ohio: 11 college ‘‘corner envelopes’ (229876).
Poe, Sarah L., Baltimore, Md.: Feather cape (226197).
Poe, Maj. T. H., New York, N.Y.: Amphibian and 10 reptiles from Turkey
(229019). Poelt, Dr. J. (See Botanische Staatssammlung)
Poland, Gevernment of, Warsaw, Poland: (Through ARS Polana) 72 mint postage stamps and 32 first-day covers of Poland (228150, 228946, 230485).

<<<Page: 163>>>

Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland: (Through B. Pisarski) 61 ants from Europe (230348, exchange).
Polkinhorn, V.H. (See Affleck, Mrs. P. G.)
Pollack, Mrs. F., Falls Church, Va.: Planarian worm (226606).
Pollak, Mrs. Virginia M., New York, N.Y.: African helmet mask, 2 stone figures, bellows, and headdress (226557) ; bronze head of Albert Einstein (226578) ; carved figure of a woman and child from French Sudan, Africa (228918).
Pollara, Prof. Luigi Z. (See Stevens Institute of Technology)
Pollock, H. E. D. (See Carnegie Institution of Washington)
Pomtier, Howard H., Boron, Calif.: 15 miscellaneous minerals from Boron Open Pit, Boron, Calif. (230002, exchange).
Popkin, David B., Englewood, N.J.: Cacheted cover honoring the Centenary of Englewood, N.J. (228149).
Porter, Harriet, Washington, D.C.: Set of hickory-nut dolls and chairs in a furnished room (227246).
Porter, Mrs. L. R., Farley, Staffordshire plate, 1883 (228745).
Post, Mrs. Charles Johnson, and Post, Phyllis B., Bayside, N.Y.: Oil painting by Charles Johnson Post depicting
Mo.:
assault on San Juan Hill (215980, exchange). Post, Phyllis B. (See Post, Mrs.
Charles Johnson)
Pest, Dr. R. L. (See North Dakota Agricultural College)
Post Office Department, Washington, D.C.: (Through Greever Allan) 849 mint postage stamps distributed by the Universal Postal Union per Bulletin Nos. 10, 13, 15, and 16 of 1959 (226067); 140 mint foreign stamps and 465 examples of foreign postal stationery (227378); 943 mint foreign postage stamps per Universal Postal Union Bulletin Nos. 23 and 25 of 1959 and Bulletin No. 1 of 1960 (228834); 244 mint foreign postage stamps per Universal Postal Union Bulletin No. 5 of 1960 (2298838); (through J. H. Marks) 127 U.S. mint stamps (229749); 3 15-
cent and 3 25-cent mint U.S. postage stamps, Liberty series (229825); (through Cornelius Peterson) 239 foreign stamps distributed by the Universal Postal Union, per Bulletin No. 8, 1959 (225411).
Pough, Dr. Frederick, New York, N.Y.: Wurtzite from Thomaston, Conn., and sklodowskite from Spain (225725).
Powell, Guy C. (See Alaska Department of Fish & Game)
Prager, Mrs. Henry, Washington, D.C.: Basket, probably from Middle East (229610).
Pratt & Whitney Co., West Hartford, Conn.: Pratt & Whitney pillar shaper and belt shifter (226770).
Price, Douglas W., Davis, Calif.: 3 insects, holotype and paratypes, from San Mateo County, Calif. (229366).
Price, Prof. Manning A. (See Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas)
Price, Mrs. Walter Fielding, Charlottesville, Va.: Wooden lock and key (227782).
Pritchett, Mrs. William D., New Orleans, La.: Cork model of the Smithsonian building and an oil painting of John Rooney (226597).
Privitera, Dr. Carmelo A., St. Paul, Minn.: 14 centipedes from Minnesota (225847, 226943).
Proctor, George R. (See Institute of
Jamaica) Prohme, Clio, Washington, D.C:: (Through Mrs. Pinckney Alston
Trapier) child’s white wool jacket and cotton petticoat, late 19th century
(225961). Prokopec, Dr. Miroslav, Prague, Czechoslovakia: 3 reproductions of
Zdenék Burian paintings of prehistoric man (229436).
Provenzano, Anthony J., Miami, Fla.: 2 isopods and 11 hermit crabs (226108).
Provincialado dos Francisecanos, Sao Paulo, Brazil: (Through Father Walter W. Kempf) 144 ants from South and Central America (230346, exchange).
Pruett, Marcus D., Butte, Mont.: 1 sphalerite specimen from Anselmo Mine, Butte, Mont. (228212, exchange)

<<<Page: 164>>>

Pschorn-Walcher, Dr. H., Delémont, Switzerland: 2 insects, holotype and paratype, from Europe (230138).
Puerto Rico, University of, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico: 2 grasses from Puerto Rico (225887).
Puleston, Dennis E., Brookhaven, L. 1., N.Y.: 2,764 miscellaneous insects, 1389 marine invertebrates, a mollusk, coconut crab, and coconut from French Polynesia (226991, 229728).
Pulsometer Engineering Co., Ltd., Reading, England: (Through F. A. Colbert) Pulsometer steam pump of the late 19th or early 20th century (228647).
Purchon, Dr. R. D., Singapore, Malaya: (Through Dr. R. Tucker Abbott) 125 marine and brackish water mollusks from Singapore (229151).
Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.: (Through Russell E. Mumford) 590 mammals from Indiana (228728).
Pure Oil Co., Chicago, Ill.: (Through Rawleigh Warner) model of the Creole No. 1 Well and half model of the tanker Purelight (230436, 230384).
Pursell, Ronald A., State College, Pa.: 60 bryophytes and lichens collected in Tennessee by donor (227248).
Quaker Hill Museum of Natural History, Pawling, N.Y.: 10 phanerogams and 1 fern from Florida, Mexico, and the West Indies (225687); 12 miscellaneous phanerogams collected by Olive M. Gunnison (228857).
Queensland, University of, Brisbane, Australia: (Through Dr. Elizabeth N. Marks) 4 mosquitoes from western Australia (226571).
Quigley, Mrs. Mary M., Washington, D.C.: 30 flies, 2 lacewings, 280 wasps and bees, 47 beetles, and 11 leafhoppers (230536).
Raasch, Dr. Gilbert O. (See Shell Oil Company of Canada, Ltd.)
Rabb, Dr. George B. (See Grant, Maj. Chapman)
Rainwater, Mrs. H. Ivan, Honolulu, Hawaii: Measuring spoon (227590).
Rakta, Mrs. Krachangsi, Bangkapi, Bangkok, Thailand: 5 coins and 2 bank notes from Thailand (228806).
563136—60——_11
Ramsammy, J. R., Georgetown, British Guiana: 74 phanerogams, 13 grasses, and 3 ferns from British Guiana (222253).
Ramsay, S., Glasgow, Scotland: Prehnite from Boylestone Quarry, Barrhead, Scotland (225832).
Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden, Claremont, Calif.: 18 Mexican oaks and conifers collected by Richard M. Straw (225684, exchange).
Randall, Dr. John E., Miami, Fla.: 4 sea anemones (228672); fish from the Virgin Islands (229452). (See also Miami, University of)
Raney, Dr. Edward C. University)
Ranson, Dr. Gilbert. (See Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle)
Rapoport, Dr. Milton, Philadelphia, Pa.: 24 French Levant airmail stamps, 1918 (228292).
Raun, Gerald G. life Foundation)
Rausch, Dr. Robert, Anchorage, Alaska: 2 bird skins (226940).
Rawleigh, Warner. (See Pure Oil Co.)
Rawls, John, Vienna, Va.: Army campaign hat of Spanish-American War period, artillery pole pad of 1864, and an American sword frog and straps of 1870-80 (229645); olive drab serge U.S. Army Air Corps blouse and 4 insignia, ca. 1933 (230273).
Raymond, Marcel. (See Montreal Botanical Garden)
Redfearn, Dr. Paul L., Jr., Springfield, Mo.: 50 mosses and 108 bryophytes collected by donor (226333, 229484, exchanges).
Redington, C. Richard, Denver, Colo.: 3 unknown radioactive species. from Colorado (225723).
Reed, Dr. Clyde F., Baltimore, Md.: 3 phanerogams from Maryland and Virginia (229159, 229491).
Reed, Dr. Edward E., Fort Collins, Colo.: 8,400 crustaceans and 10,000 miscellaneous invertebrates (226200).
Reed, J. Vernon, Washington, D.C.: Quartz with numerous bubble inclusions from Franklin County, Va. (229447).
(See Cornell
(See Welder Wild

<<<Page: 165>>>

Reed, Dr. Theodore H. sonian Institution)
Rees, Dr. W. J. Government of)
Reese, Dr. William D. western Louisiana Institute)
Rehder, Dr. Harald. (See Bloomer, Howard)
Reinert, Mrs. Elsie Bradford, Essex, Mass.: Infant’s dress and a barrelshaped whiskey bottle made in Pittsburgh in 1872 (229802).
Reischman, Rev. Placidus, Washington, D.C.: 515 crustaceans (224938).
Rettenmeyer, Carl W., Lawrence, Kans.: 10 ants from Central America (226231). (See also Kansas, University of, and Snow Entomological Museum)
Reynolds, W. L. (See Cameron Iron Works, Inc.)
Rhode Island, Univeristy of, Kingston, R.I.: (Through Dr. Donald J. Zinn) 703 copepods, barnacles, tanaids, amphipods, and caprellids (227306).
Rhymer, Daniel I., Washington, D.C.: 41 mammals from the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Tennessee (230516).
Rich, Dr. Gilbert J., Bethel, Maine: Victoria acetylene gas generating machine (226581).
Richards, Dr. A. M. Government of)
Richards, Adrian, Washington, D.C.: 25 rocks typical of the volcanics of San Benedicto Island, Mexico (227407).
Richardson, Col. E. H., New York, N.Y.: 33 butterflies from Formosa (226710).
Richmond, Vice Adm. A. C. Ames, Marguerite E.)
Richmond, Dr. E. A., Moorestown, N.J.: 7 spiders from the U.S. (229474).
Rider, Mrs. John. (See Thompson, J. Clark)
Riemer, Donald N., Auburn, Ala.: 2 nemertean worms (228538).
Riemer, Dr. William J., Tel-Aviv, Israel: 2 toads from west of Ashgelon, Israel, collected by donor (225767).
Riesenberg, Dr. Saul H., Washington, D.C.: 13 miscellaneous ethnological
(See Great Britain,
(See South-
(See Australia,
(See
(See Smith-]items from the Caroline Islands, col-
lected by donor (227232).
Rijksherbarium, Leiden, Holland: 36 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 1 fern, and 140 cryptogams (223225, exchange).
Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through Dr. L. B. Holthuis) 8 crabs, paratypes and syntypes, 3 spiny lobsters, seyllarid, and 3 hippas (225397, 228079, 229555, exchanges); (through Dr. J. van der Vecht) 9 wasps from various localities (227365, exchange); 1 insect, paratype, from the Orient (227482).
Riley, Bill, Baltimore, Md.: Uniform jacket (229504).
Riley, William M., Silver Spring, Md.: 3 U.S. used postcards (230271).
Ring, Bernard, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 3 cacheted covers issued at the 4th Annual Convention of the American First Day Cover Society (227897).
Ristedt, Ernest J., Gainesville, Va.: Ethnological and archeological specimens from Peru (230238).
Roback, Dr. Selwyn S. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Robbins, G. Thomas. (See California, University of)
Roberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore, Md.: Pair of bobbinet lace curtains, Empire shaving stand, framed picture, textiles, antique carpet sweeper, and a silver thimble (227610); 111 items of American costume and accessories of the late 19th and the 20th centuries (224282, 229563).
Roberts, Manuel S., Edgartown, Mass.: (Through John M. Leavens) 2 Martha’s Vineyard catboat half-models (229521).
Roberts, Willard L., Rapid City, S. Dak.: 3 minerals from South Dakota (228249, exchange).
Robertson, Dr. Robert. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Robertson, Col. Robert R. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Robins, Dr. C. Richard. (See Miami, University of)
Rebinson, Mrs. Lucy F., Chandlersville, Ohio: Cultivator (230575).

<<<Page: 166>>>

Robinson, M. D., Kampala, Uganda: 4 insects, paratypes, from South Africa (230132).
Robinson, M. W., Ce., Inc., Rockfall, Conn.: (Through J. V. C. McKinney) form milling cutter and drill chuck (228493).
Robinson, Mark, Springfield, Pa.: 16,210 scarab beetles, holotypes, cotypes, and paratypes, from the United States, Mexico, and Central America
(226367). Roby, Richard S. (See Yale University) Rockefeller Foundation, Mexico,
D.F.: Office of Special Studies: (Through Dr. William W. Gibson) 2 insects, holotypes (226953).
Rockefeller Institute, New York, NeYe: <@hrough Dr) Ulrich Naf) °2 cultivated ferns (227574).
Roebling, Mrs. Donald, Clearwater, Fla.: Opal from Australia (229346).
Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 250 minerals from various localities (225361, 225726, 226464, 226601, 226971, 227773, 227890, 228221, 228519, 229348, 230418); 10 minerals from Amelia, Va. (225665, 226466, 228284); autunite on pegmatite from Spruce Pine, N.C. (225732); 6 uranium minerals from Spain (226683) ; scapolite from Moguk, Upper Burma, 3 tourmalines from Himalaya Mine, San Diego County, Calif., spodumene from Cuiete, Brazil, and 5 andalusites from Minas Novas, Brazil (227563) ; apophyllite from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil (227770); celestite with calcite from Chittenango Falls, N.Y. (228469); 8 minerals from Norway (229050); 62 crystals from Madagascar (229349); 2 emeralds from Colombia (229351); 18 minerals from Colorado, Idaho, Montana, and Nevada (226120, 226589, 227561, 228285, 229605, 230420); 18 minerals from Mexico (227036, 230241, 230419); 5 minerals from Tsumeb, South-West Africa, and Lemhi County, Idaho (227043, 227891, 229347); 5 minerals from Franklin, N.J. (227122, 227562) ; 13 tektites from Texas (227164, 229598); 44 minerals from Switzerland
(227767, 230129); 41 minerals from California, Nevada, Utah, Mexico, South-West Africa, and Tasmania (228222, 228560, 228874, 230128).
_ Rofen, R. R. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Rogerson, Dr. Clark T. York Botanical Garden)
Roman, Dr. Jean. (See Muséum National d’ Histoire Naturelle)
Romanella, R. C., New York, N.Y.: Cat’s eye orthoclase rough from Ceylon (226468).
Ronson Corporation, Woodbridge, N.J.: (Through Louis V. Aronson, II) 3 Ronson cigarette lighters and 1 Ronson electric razor (226028, 228395).
Rose, Dr. John H. (See Central Veterinary Laboratory)
Rosenberg, William, Balsam, N.C.: 2 shrews from North Carolina (228141).
Rosengurtt, Dr. Bernardo, Montevideo, Uruguay: 34 phanerogams from Uruguay (223958, 225860).
Rosenwald, Lessing J., Jenkintown, Pa.: Astronomical-geographical compendium, 1557 (229164).
Roser, Carolyn, Kennett Square, Pa.: Complete upper dentition of eagle ray found by donor (226467).
Ross, Dr. D. A. (See Laboratory of Forest Biology)
Ross, Dr. Edward S. fornia Academy of Sciences)
Roth, Alfred F. M., Trenton, N.J.: 20 mint Naphadag postage stamps and 2 first-day covers of Great Britain (227072).
Roth, George L., Upper Darby, Pa.: Victorian model house (226177).
Roth, Dr. Louis M., Natick, Mass.: Darkling beetle, paratype, from Madagascar (225673).
Rothschild, Louis S., Washington, D.C.: Chippendale mahogany Pembroke table (229147).
Rouse, Hunter. University of)
Rout, John C., Washington, D.C.: Ruler and proportioning scale (227899) ; 95 miscellaneous mint and used United States and foreign postage stamps, many autographed by various engravers
(See New
(See Cali-
(See Iowa, State

<<<Page: 167>>>

and designers (228682); toolmaker’s straight edge and bow calipers (228492) ; 99 U.S. postage stamps having signatures of designer, engraver, letter engraver, and/or Superintendent of Sideography Division (229513) ; 39 mint and used stamps of China and the U.S. (230475).
Rowell, Dr. A. J., Ilkeston, Derbyshire, England: 25 brachiopods from the Paleozoic and Jurassic of England (228282); 50 brachiopods from the Paleozoic and Mesozoic of Great Britain (229905, exchange).
Rowley, Elmer B., Glens Falls, N.Y.: 22 minerals from various localities (225358, exchange).
Roy, Dr. B. C. ment of)
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey, England: Phanerogam (229372).
Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, Canada: (Through Dr. V. B. Meen) 51
(See India, Govern-
minerals from Canada (227123, exchange).
Ruhmkorf, Dr. V. (See Seismos GmbH)
Ruhoff, Theodore B., Laurel, Md.: 90 miscellaneous postage stamps, meters, covers and postal stationery of the United States and foreign countries (228258, 230038).
Russell, Carl P., Orinda, Calif.: Express company envelope and receipt of the Civil War period (230034).
Russell, Donald R., University, Miss.: 7 salamanders, larva, and eggs (228855).
Russell, J. C., San Francisco, Calif.: James A. Garfield memorial ribbon (228412).
Russell, J. Townsend, New York, N.Y.: 3 Eskimo sculptures (227554).
Rutherford, James W., Springfield, Ohio: Narrow hoe (230578).
Ruzek, Dr. Miloslav. (See National Museum Society in Prague)
Ryan, James T., Jr., Washington, D.C.: 23 miscellaneous philatelic items (227449, 228253); lottery ticket of the Canal through Washington to the Eastern Branch Harbor (230030); 164 U.S. philatelic covers bearing various
postal markings and 51 mint stamps of China (230041).
Ryukyu Islands, University of, Naha, Okinawa: (Through Dr. Shinsho Nishishimamoto) 14 fishes from the Ryukyu Islands (230356, exchange).
Saber, Dr. M., Cairo, Egypt: (Through Dr. Porter M. Kier) 7 fossil echinoids from the Jurassic of Egypt (227945, exchange).
Sabrosky, Curtis, Washington, D.C.: 13 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign covers (230044).
Sackett, Prof. and Mrs. Ralph L., Miami, Fla.: 8 items of Quaker clothing and other articles belonging to the family of Lucinda White Coggeshall, Fountain City, Ind. (222523).
Sadlick, Dr. Walter, Pocatello, Idaho: 7 brachiopod species from the Lower Mississippian, Aplington formation of Iowa (223631); 24 gastropods, types, from the Mississippian of Millard County, Utah (229850, exchange).
Sagle, L. W. (See Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co.)
Saha Karn Bhaet Clinic, Bangrak, Bangkok, Thailand: (Through Dr. R. Boonsong Lekagul) 27 fishes from Thailand (214063, exchange).
Sahabi, Dr. Yadollah. (See Tehran, University of)
Sailer, Dr. R. I. U.S. Department of)
St. Joseph Lead Co., Balmat, N.Y.: (Through John S. Brown) Jordanite from Balmat, St. Lawrence County, N.Y. (226618).
Salter, Mr. and Mrs. (See Bixler, Mrs. P. 8.)
Salter, Mrs. William E., Washington, D.C.: Pinking machine (230028).
Sample, Mr. and Mrs. W. Burwell, Pittsburgh, Pa.: Miner’s candle holder, ca. 1888 (230262).
Samsinak, Dr. K., Prague, Czechoslovakia: 10 slides of mites from Czechoslovakia (230139).
Satyamurti, Dr. S. T. Government of)
Scattergood, George M. strong Cork Co.)
(See Agriculture,
Murrel B.
(See India,
(See Arm

<<<Page: 168>>>

Schaeffer, Prof. Robert L., Jr. Muhlenberg College)
Schaller, Dr. W. T., Washington, DC.: Probertite and searlesite from California Mine, Boron, Calif. (227237). (See also Gower, Harry P.)
Scheele, Carl H., Washington, D.C.: 24 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign stamps and covers (230478).
Scheffel, Paul, Montgomery, N.Y.: 2 wooden nickels commemorating the Montgomery Sesquicentennial, 1959 (228170).
Scherba, Dr. Gerald, Chico, Calif.: 75 ants from California (229458, exchange).
Schlinger, Dr. Evert I., Riverside, Calif.: 18 flies from North America (226949, 226692).
Schlink, Norman H. Manufacturing Co.)
Schlumberger Well Surveying Corp., Houston, Tex.: (Through W. J. Gillingham) 8 pieces of exploration equipment (230266).
Schmeliz, Lee D., Hyattsville, Md.: 5 coral snakes and their mimics from tropical America (228556).
Schmitt, Dr. Waldo L., Washington, D.C.: Copepod, 67 amphipods (225657).
Schneider, William, Cincinnati, Ohio: Postmaster’s commission for James Hetherington, dated 1853, and signed by James Campbell, Postmaster General (229653).
Schuh, Joe, Klamath Falls, Oreg.: 23 scarabs from the United States (229619).
Schultz, George A., Durham, N.C.: 82 isopods (225530).
Schuster, Robert O., Davis, Calif.: 53 insects, including 20 paratypes, from North America (216537).
Schwardt, Dr. Herbert Cornell University) -
Schwartz, Dr. Frank J. (See Chesapeake Biological Laboratory)
Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne S., Scarsdale, N.Y.: 61 marine mollusks from Panama and the Hawaiian Islands and 56 brachiopods (227744, 229150).
Scott, Katherine Kirkwood, Milledge-
(See
(See Scovill
H. (See
ville, Ga.: 2 colonial dresses and a dress of the 19th century with accessories (226372).
Scott, William, Hugene, Oreg.:
Miner’s gas testing lamp (228113).
Scott Williams Mineral Co., Scottsdale, Ariz.: (Through Scott J. Williams) 157 minerals from various localities (225484, 228875, 229798, exchanges).
Scovill Manufacturing Co., Waterbury, Conn.: 96 coins, medals, and tokens struck by donor (230362); (through Norman H. Schlink) eyelet machine, rope drop stamp, burnishing lathe, and a foot press (230367).
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Mrs. Angeles Alvarino) 58 chaetognath worms, including types (226652, 228308); (through Conrad Limbaugh) 228 marine invertebrates (225531).
Seaman, E. A. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Sedalia Centennial Association, Inc., Sedalia, Mo.: 2 wooden nickels commemorating the Sedalia, Missouri, Centennial, 1860-1960 (230462).
Seevers, Dr. Charles H. Chicago Natural History Museum)
Seff, Herman H., Columbus, Ohio: (Through E. A. Battison) Liberty Bell watch (229516).
SegadasVianna, Dr. Fernando. Museu Nacional)
Segeler, Curt G., Brooklyn, N.Y.: Groutite from Tacville, N.Y. (227097, exchange).
Seidle, Mrs. Rebert. Mrs. Martha)
Sein, Francisce, Punta Maria, Puerto Rico: 60 ants from Puerto’ Rico (230535).
Seismos GmbH, Hannover, Germany: (Through Dr. V. Ruhmkorf) Mintrop field seismograph outfit, consisting oft the seismometer and the recording uni (223232).
Seitz, Dr. O. (See Niedersachsisches Landesamt fiir Bodenforschung)
Semple, Dr. Arthur T., Turrialba, Costa Rica: 40 phanerogams, and 33 grasses from Colombia and Costa Rica
(See
(See
(See Eustis,

<<<Page: 169>>>

(225052, 228161, 228905); quartz crystals from Madagascar (230245).
Senckenberg Natur-Museum und Forschungs Institut, Frankfurt am Main, West Germany: (Through Dr. Otto Kraus) African centipede (227066, exchange); (through Dr. Wolfgang Struve) brachiopod from the Devonian of Germany (223634, exchange).
Sequin, Albert H., Washington, D.C.: Framed wreath of artificial flowers (228145).
Service Géologique, Tananarive, Madagascar: (Through Dr. H. Besairie) 5 minerals from Madagascar (229357).
Servicio de Hidrografia Naval, Buenos Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr. Esteban Boltovsky) 7 Foraminifera from Recent sediments of the Brazilian shelf (225977, exchange).
Servigo de Piscicultura, Fortaleza, Cearé, Brazil: (Through Osmar Fontenele) 55 fresh-water fishes from South America (227743).
Setzler, Frank M., Washington, D.C.: Basket (229479).
Shapazian, John M., East Greenwich, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Darling, Brown & Sharpe standard steel rule (226420).
Sharpe, Henry D., Providence, R.L.: (Through George A. Hawkins) Brown & Sharpe paper gage micrometer caliper and Darling, Brown & Sharpe square steel rule (226421).
Shaw, Robert A., Silver Spring, Md.: 1 fish from Chesapeake Bay (228142).
Shazly, Dr. E. M. EI, Vienna, Austria: Specimen of the Aswan, Egypt, meteorite (228090, exchange).
Shell Oil Company of Canada, Ltd., Calgary, Alberta, Canada: (Through Dr. Gilbert O. Raasch) 48 invertebrate fossils from the Upper Devonian of Northwest Territories, Canada (228350, exchange).
Shenefelt, Prof. Roy D., Madison, Wis.: 104 insects from North America (230134).
Sherman, Dr. Don K. ington, University of) Shiller, Dr. Ivan. U.S. Department of)
(See Wash-
(See Agriculture,
Shinn, Eugene, Coral Gables, Fla.: 5 gorgonians (224808).
Shipp, Col. William E., Front Royal, Va.: 95 military prints and books (198553).
Shuff, Cmdr. John W., III, Arlington, Va.: Garnet from Gore Mountain, N.Y. (226740).
Shure, Sidney N., Evanston, Ill: 9,497 postage stamps of Israel (222358, 222359).
Silva T., Gilberto, Havana, Cuba: 2 isopods, 11 shrimps, centipede, and 7
bats from Cuba (225763, 225850, 225978). Simmons, Ernest G. (See Texas
Game and Fish Commission)
Simms, Dr. B. T., New York, N.Y.: 183 land and fresh-water snails from Turkey (226308).
Simpson, Anson M., Peoria, Ill.: 43 pottery sherd samples from two village sites in Illinois (228742).
Simpson, Howard E., Baltimore, Md.: Observation car platform cut from a
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad ear (222190). Sinclair Oil and Gas Company,
Tulsa, Okla.: (Through James X. Corgan) 12 mollusks from the Pleistocene of Somalia (227183).
Sinkankas, Capt. John, Arlington, Va.: Spessartite and pyrite and 2 spessartites from Rutherford #2 mine, Amelia, Va. (226462, 227235, 229448).
Sister Julia Marie Van Denack O.S.F., Washington, D.C.: 6 lichens from Wisconsin (227188).
Sister St. John Nepomacine. Trinity College)
Skelly, James R. (See Cleveland Museum of Natural History)
Skinner, Dr. Brian J., Washington, D.C.: 4 magnesites from Australia (229601).
Skougaard, Mrs. Florence. Irving, Frank N., deceased)
Slater, H. Nelson, Jr., Far Hills, N.J.: Model of ‘Puffing Billy’”’ locomotive (224752).
Slavin, John E., Lowell, Mass.: 6 Highway Post Office first-day covers
(See
(See

<<<Page: 170>>>

(227553). (See also National Highway Post Office Society)
Small, Mrs. Gertrude Ullrich, Washington, D.C.: Centerpiece of plated silver and glass (227244).
Smith, Alfred D., Washington, D.C.: 2 unmarked watches (230382).
Smith, Mrs. Carl, New Canaan, Conn.: Hand-sewn seaman’s frock (229390).
Smith, Dr. Clyde F., Raleigh, N.C.: 4 insects, types, from Canada and Maine (230141).
Smith, Frank E., Minneapolis, Minn.: Sheepskin roster of Co. E., 14th Infantry, used during China Relief Expedition (225922).
Smith, James C., North Platte, Nebr.: 2 wooden nickels issued by the American Legion for the Little World Series (227073).
Smith, Prof. Laurence L. (See South Carolina, University of)
Smith, Lawrence W., Washington, D.C.: 2 watches (230378).
Smith, Dr. Leslie M., Davis, Calif.: 4 slides of insects from Arizona, California, and Texas (226480); 14 insects from California (227629, exchange).
Smith, Dr. Lyman B., Washington, D.C.: 855 phanerogams, collected in Santa Catarina, Brazil, by Pe. R. Reitz and R. M. Klein (225679).
Smith, Dr. Marion E. chusetts, University of)
Smith, Ralph Clifton, Alexandria, Va.: 10 original woodblocks engraved by Frank French and Gustav Kruell, and 1 line cut relief after Timothy Cole (229376).
Smith, William, Chillum, Md.: Microcline from Salmon River, Idaho (226977, exchange).
Smithers, C. N., Causeway, Southern Rhodesia: 2 insects, paratypes, from Southern Rhodesia (227418).
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.: (See Arnhem Land Expedition, also following funds; Bredin, Canfield, Chamberlain, Roebling, Springer, Walcott, Improvement of the Insect Collection) (Through Ruth E. Blanchard) 2,846 miscellaneous United States and
(See Massa-
foreign used postage stamps and postal meters (228072). Deposits: (Through Dr. W. J. Clench) 112 mollusks, paratypes, cotypes and idiotype (226574); (through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) 56 birds, 1 beetle, 15 shells, and 610 skins from Panama (222556) ; 703 bird skins, 38 bird skeletons, 1 nest, 7 bats, and 1 shell (228034). Found in Collections: Notebook, “Introductory Lecture to My Chemical Course for November 1848” by Robert Hare (225151); fragments of Ochansk, Perm, U.S.S.R., meteorite (225662) ; painting of ‘Alaskan Indians Raking in Eulachon,’’ by Henry Wood Elliott (225722); specimen of the Shaw, Colorado, meteorite (225834) ; specimen of the Toluca, Mexico, meteorite (225835) ; specimen of the Tonopah, Nevada, meteorite (225836); specimen of the Forest City, Iowa, meteorite (226461) ; water level (226496) ; samples of coal tar dyes (226497); 3 pieces of a Navajo Ute lariat (227233) ; 23 Japanese ethnological specimens (227766); Gunther’s scale (227807); magnetic pocket compass (228301); ratchet wrench (228487); Japanese abacus (228691); Rowland concave diffraction grating (228767); surveyor’s notebook, 1885 (228960); hand telescope (229656); blanket from North America (230127) ; 5 calculating machines (230394); (through Dr. George Switzer) spinthariscope and microscope binocular (226637) ; assay balance (228766). Made in Laboratories: Replica of Hildanus ear speculum (227908); 15 casts of New England tombstones (230432) ; model of John Fitch’s steamboat, 1786 (228235) ; 12 models of agricultural implements (230438); photographs of 670 phanerogams, 9 grasses, 152 ferns, and 129 cryptogams (230452). Astrophysical Observatory: Rowland concave diffraction grating (227592, deposit) ; (through Dr. Fred L. Whipple) 654 mounted spherical meteorite particles and 13 small boxes of unmounted vials from Canyon Diablo Crater, Ariz. (227772). Bureau of Ameican Ethnology: 310 archeological materials from La Venta, Tabasco, Mexico (228466); 183 items of

<<<Page: 171>>>

archeological material from Colville River drainage area, Northern Alaska, collected by United States Geological Survey members, 1949-50 (228740); 351 items of archeological material from along the Kukpowruk and Kokolik Rivers, Alaska, collected by Ralph Solecki in 1949 (228741). River Basin Surveys: 5 fresh-water mussels from Hughes County, S. Dak. (221942); archeological and human skeletal material collected in Oahe Reservoir, Campbell, Stanley, and Sully Counties, 8. Dak. (226498, 228124, 228919,
229853, 229854, 229855, 229856, 229857,
229861, 229862, 230198, 230201, 230203, 230204); Indian skeletal material from Big Bend Reservoir, Buffalo and Lyman Counties, 8. Dak. (229858, 229859, 229860, 230200); Indian skeletal material from Gavins Point Reservoir, Yankton County, 8. Dak. (230199); Indian skeletal material from Jamestown Reservoir, Stutsman County, N. Dak. (230202). Freer Gallery of Art: (Through Russell Mielke) 1 hygrometer (225753, deposit). U.S. National Museum: Collected: 2,382 miscellaneous insects and 58 mollusks from Florida and South Carolina, collected by Oscar L. Cartwright (226722); 272 sea anemones and 86 crustaceans collected by Dr. Charles E. Cutress (229826); 1,600 mammals, 60 reptiles and amphibians, 3 fishes, 11 insects, 37 birds, 3 mollusks, and marine invertebrates from Panama, and 69 small mammals and a snake from Lancaster County, Va., collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., and Daniel I. Rhymer (227436, 227967); 118 mammals from Whitetop Mountain, Va., and skull of a beaked whale from Fenwick Island, Del., collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr. (227441, 230412); 74 mammals from Lancaster County, Va., collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., and Louis T. Dymond (230410); 615 phanerogams collected by Dr. H. Hirlimann, University of Zurich, on the French-Swiss Botanical Mission to New Caledonia, 1951 (226893); 2,678 mosses collected in eastern U.S. by
Robert R. Ireland (230565); 1,800 echinoids from the Upper Cretaceous of Alabama and Georgia, collected by Dr. Porter M. Kier, Dr. Norman F. Sohl, and S. C. Crosby (228127); 11 phanerogams from Jordan collected by Mrs. Eric Kocher (227894); 53 archeological items from sites along the Columbia River in the vicinity of Bonneville, Oreg., collected by H. W. Krieger, 1934 (228743); 22 birds and 118 mammals collected by J. C. Lingebach in Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia (225794); 618 phanerogams, 100 grasses, 137 ferns, and 540 cryptogams from Canada collected by C. V. Morton (229493); 4 naval officers’ brass buttons, right % of USMC hat plate, and 4 fragments forming more than half of one USMC hat plate of the 19th century collected by Mendel L. Peterson (228481); 31 archeological items collected by Frank M. Setzler in West Virginia, 1957 (217543); 200 specimens from mineralized vein in trap rock quarry near Centreville, Va., and 3 psilomelane specimens from near Wickenburg, Ariz., collected by Dr. George Switzer (226561, 229449); 8,500 fresh-water fishes, crustacea, mollusks, and reptiles from various localities collected by Dr. William R. Taylor and Robert H. Kanazawa (227888). Purchased: 33 Egyptian antiquities (223500) ; W. Stokes Kirk collection of early American insignia and military headdress (223708); 643 mollusks, mostly marine, from Netherlands, New Guinea (224133); 18th-century Dutch grain measuring device (224507); surveyor’s compass, ca. 1850 (225752); 4 ceramic pill tiles, Civil War period, and a tin container of ‘‘Pills of Quiniae Sulphr... 1864.” (225868); German miner’s compass, ca. 1700, and aset of Napier Bones, ca. 1620 (225998); 8 volumes of the “New Monthly Belle Assemblee”’ and 6 volumes of A. L. Castellan (226137) ; 4 replicas of scientific apparatus (226396); Hooke’s sounding apparatus, 1667 (226495); 167 face masks of native peoples of Africa, Italy, China, Philippines, and Oceania (226524); meat and

<<<Page: 172>>>

vegetable chopper, meat grinder, 2 apple parers, and 2 coffee mills (226565) ; model of the moon (226582); pen and ink drawing entitled ‘Inmates’ by Mitchell Jamieson (226631); 10 modern silver coins (226760); 7 coins (226761) ; 68 items of Civil War and campaign philatelic material (226766); model of crabbing bateau, Jess Willard (226771); 2 lithographs, 2 water colors, and an oil painting of watercraft (226772); 224 projectiles, fuses, primers, and army medical supplies (226832); eyeball exhibit (226871); 85 phanerogams and 1 grass (226956); 29 ferns from Malaya (226957); 2 Civil War era steel parade torches and 2 White House gas chandelier globes (227070); replica of 14th Century, B.C., Egyptian cord-pivot balance (227075); 6 Colonial bills (227145); ladder-back chair (227243); scale-model tank (227250); gun quadrant and drawing instrument of the 17th century (227535); mortar, pestle, and melting cup, all of metal, of late 13th century or earlier from Nishapur, Persia (227589); 3 models of ships’ boats for H.M.S. Victory (227712); 023 phanerogams, 22 grasses, and 66 ferns from Borneo (227795); 11 early gold and silver coins of Ferdinand and Isabella, Charles V and Phillip II of Spain (227806); collection of costume plates, 1800-67 (228001); 3,191 archeological objects, including prehistoric textiles, engraved marine shells, pottery, stone artifacts, and other items from Spiro Mound, Le Flore Co., Okla. (228126); 14 items of modern cadet dress (228176); 5 English weights of the early 19th century (228180); mercurial barometer (228181); 72 phanerogams from South Africa (228247) ; scale model of tank (228251); 14 German bracteates and a Saxon denier (228390); Oriental Lowestoft pistol-handle urn with cover (228473); Béttger redware vase (228474); replicas of Hooke’s wheel barometer and “‘oat beard’ hygrometer (228484); wooden lathe bed (228488); 39 scientific instruments (228694) ; physical apparatus for the optical representation of vibratory motion according
to Lissajous ‘‘Vibrascope” principle (228765); aermotor gasoline engine (228815); 2 chiaroscuro woodcuts,
“Dancing Nymph with Bow and Arrows’ and ‘Apollo with Lyre,” by John Baptist Jackson, 1753 (228939); chiaroscuro woodcut, ‘‘David and Goliath,” by Ugo da Carpi, 1455-1523 (228940); replica of Hare’s eudiometer (228961); old French milliner’s head, early 19th century; wool challis dress, 1840-50; pair woman’s shoes, 1870; and a pair hand-knit embroidered woman’s stockings (229020) ; 450 preserved paleobotanical materials, including silicified wood, and fossil nuts and seeds, from the Clarno formation, Eocene of Oregon (229354); 123 wood samples from Brazil (229373); 12 medieval silver coins, Byzantine copper coin, and a gold florin of Hungary (229379); 7 clearing-house certificates and 3 postnotes (229382); German or Italian steel cabasset of the late 16th century (229386); 167 original Baldwin locomotive drawings dating from 1870-90 (229391); model of steam vessel, Chancellor Livingston (229392); 2 locomotive lithographs (229393) ; replica of a mirror for reflecting heat and a reproduction of a compound blowpipe, 1813 (229395) ; wrought-iron casement window sash (229477); engraving of Joseph Henry by G. R. Hall (229497); woodcut, Portrait of Algernon Sidney, by John Baptist Jackson after Justus Verus (229498) ; woodcut of Pluto by Hendrick Goltzius (229499); 2 lithographs, an etching, and a woodcut (229500); color monoprint by Robert Broner (229501) ; iron pike head with part of wooden handle, 19th century (229506); colored engraving ‘‘A South East View of the Great Town of Boston in New England in America” by I. Carwitham (229507) ; reproduction of flying pendulum clock from Germany (229515); model of six-horse team ferryboat (229522); Fitz comet-seeker telescope (229523); 9 antique fabrics (229640, 229641); model of dragger Albaiross, 1951 (229659); half-model of a New Haven sharpie (229660); oil painting of packet Isaac

<<<Page: 173>>>

Webb (229943) ; 5 pieces of slip-decorated pottery from Germany (230016) ; Indian painted and quilted skirt (230121); 236 bird skins and 12 mammals (230187); 10 bats from Japan (230249); 17 ferns from Malaya (230256); 12 modern facsimiles of reward posters of 1875-76 (230274); plumb level, 18th century, surveyor’s compass, and an engineer’s bubble level (230277); level and square and 2 sectors (230278); 13 scientific instruments of the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries (230279); 7 financial papers, 1769-1860, a ticket to Berkshire Medical Institution, 1824, and a letter regarding Irish Emigrant relief, 1790 (230324); Fowler phrenological head and a guinea scale of the 18th century (230325); Babylonian medical tablet and reproductions of Babylonian astronomical and mathematical tablets (230326); letter from Oliver Kendall to Isiah and Eliza Fullerton describing the eve of the ‘‘end of the world’”’ (230359); model of steamboat Raritan (230386); 14 astronomical charts and a lithograph of the Surrey Institution (230391); Egyptiansurveyinginstrument (230392) ; Portolan chart of Europe (230428); manuscript document (230429); 4 collotype reproductions of ships (230431); lithograph of Antioch College (230434) ; Farmers Mutual Fire Insurance Policy issued in 1841, 6 highway tax bills, 1811-49, and 6 property deeds (230435) ; model of American reaper of the 18th century (230437); color mezzotint by Edouard Gautier-Dagoty, and 2 etchings by Johan Teyler (230453); color lithograph entitled ‘‘Lithographer’’ (230454); 14 import certificates for the port of New York, 1791-99, and 1 for the port of Philadelphia (230455); 2 Pennsylvania 20-shilling notes of 1759 and 1764 (230456); silver medal commemorating the emancipation of Negroes in the Danish West-Indies, 1834 (230466); 6 ancient Greek coins (230467); scale model of Wright military plane of 1909 (230492); book entitled ‘‘The Navigator,” by Zadock Cramer and a map entitled ““A Compendius Account of the British Colonies
in North America” (230496) ; 4 shipping documents, mid-19th century, and an invitation to the opening of the Erie Canal (230497); 4 prints (230498); blacksmith tools (230570); lamp (230571); thresher, sweep horsepower, sled, rake, harrow, and _ cultivator (230579); harrow, rake, and cultivator (230580); drill, plow, cultivator, and rake (230581). National Zoological Park: 20 bird skins and 118 skeletons (225791); mounted pigeon, “Anzio Boy,” and citation when presented to National Zoological Park (227252); 41 mammals (230411); (through Malcolm Davis) 5 insect larvae from back of reindeer and a tropical spider (225742, 226481); (through Dr. Theodore H. Reed) map of North America published in 1795 and a map showing the permanent system of highways in the D.C. (229867).
Snew Entomological Museum, Lawrence, Kans.: (Through Carl W. Rettenmeyer) 24 ants from North America and Africa (225845).
Snyder, Alvin A. (See Washington District Corps of Engineers)
Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle, Caracas, Venezuela: 253 phanerogams, 6 grasses, 28 ferns, and a cryptogam (221814).
Society of Motion Pictures and Television Engineers Historical Museum Committee, The, New York, N.Y.: (Through John B. McCullough) copy of historical film concerning sound-onfilm methods by Prof. J. T. Tykociner (228812).
Society of Washington Printmakers, Arlington, Va.: Aquatint and etching, “Milwaukee Shore,” by Arthur Thrall (229643).
Socolof, Ross, Palmetto, Fla.: (Through Herbert R. Axelrod) 166 fishes from South America (228882).
Sogandares-Bernal, Dr. Franklin. (See Florida State Board of Conservation)
Sohl, Dr. Norman F. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Soil Conservation Society of America, The, Des Moines, Iowa: Brass soil and

<<<Page: 174>>>

water conservation commemorative medal portraying Hugh Hammond Bennett, issued in 1959 (228294).
Sokol, Otto M. (See Naturhistorisches Museum)
Solyom, Mrs. H. L., Washington, D.C.: Zuni turquoise necklace (230008).
Somalia Philatelic Agency, New York, N.Y.: 5 mint stamps of Somalia (230491).
Sonotone Corporation, Elmsford, N.Y.: (Through Leonard Kane) Sono-
tone hearing aid, Model No. 222 (225758).
Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War, Washington, D.C.: (Through
Gen. U. 8S. Grant, 3rd) gold medal honoring the surviving veterans of the War between the States (223595).
Seuers, Mrs. Loren E., Canton, Ohio: Darned net sampler and Damask tablecloth of the 19th century (230568).
South Africa, Division of Entomology, Pretoria, South Africa: (Through Dr. J. C. Faure) 22 insects from South Africa (226716, exchange).
South Carolina, University of, Columbia, S.C.: (Through Prof. Laurence L. Smith) Hiddenite from Hiddenite, N.C. (229356, exchange).
South Carolina Wildlife Resources Department, Moncks Corner, §8.C.: (Through Robert E. Stevens) 57-pound channel catfish collected in South Carolina by C. B. Dennis (230354, exchange).
Southern, Arthur E., Moseley, Birmingham, England: King Edward VIII Coronation mug (226016).
Southern California, University of, Los Angeles, Calif.: Allan Hancock Foundation: (Through Janet Haig) 4 porcellanid crabs (227944).
Southwestern Louisiana Institute, Lafayette, La.: 2 plants from Bolivia (225688); (through Dr. William D. Reese) 2 ferns from Louisiana (229872).
Southworth, Charles, Thedford, Ontario, Canada: Devonian blastoid from Hungry Hollow formation, Ontario (228925, exchange).
Spaulding, Dr. D. L., Omaha, Nebr.: Gem gravel from Mogok, Burma (229446).
Specht, Dr. R. L. (See Arnhem Land Expedition)
_Speidel, Edwin, Providence, R.I.:
Early 19th-century German coin balance with 18 weights (225982).
Spencer, W., North Plainfield, N.J.: 26 minerals from New Jersey (229796).
Spilman, T. J., Washington, D.C.: 6 centipedes, 2 millipedes, and a spider (226693).
Springer, Dr. Paul. U.S. Department of the)
Springer, Dr. Victor G. (See Florida State Board of Conservation)
Springer Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 100 echinoids from the Tertiary of Florida (227087); 148 fossil echinoids from Crocus Bay, Anguilla, West Indies (227775); 10 invertebrate fossils (229441) ; 1,000 invertebrate fossils from Oklahoma (223030).
Stack, Jeseph B., New York, N.Y.: 1 silver medal and 2 United States money orders (225985) ; 503 British copper and silver tokens of the late 18th and early 19th centuries; also a collection of 808 Scottish, English, and Irish communion tokens (227447); 257 colonial notes of Rhode Island (227448); 11 original artists’ models and 2 steel hubs for U.S. patterns, 3 copper plates for printing money, and 13 German 5-mark patterns and hubs (227805); 5 original artist’s models for German 5-mark patterns, 1951 (228168).
Stack, Morton, New York City, N.Y.: 148 Colonial bills, 4 war bonds, 124 bank notes and scrips (227803) ; 4 uncut sheets of obsolete notes, 3 Army pay certificates, and 1 stock certificate (228169).
Stack, Norman, New York, N.Y.: 6 cowries (226961).
Stackelberg, Dr. A. (See Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)
Stack’s, New York, N.Y.: 305 obsolete state bank notes and scrip (230459) ; 4,388 coins, tokens, and medals of the world (228171); 278 German porcelain
(See Interior,

<<<Page: 175>>>

coins and medals, 115 necessity coins in aluminum and lead, and 6,452 necessity paper notes (227804).
Staehle, Henry C., Rochester, N.Y.: 10 quartz specimens from Beartown Colo. (229141).
Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.: (Through Dr. George S. Myers) 5 fishes, paratypes, from Japan (215588, exchange).
Stannard, Dr. Lewis J., Urbana, II1.: 2 insects (226728). (See also Illinois State Natural History Survey Division)
Stansfield, Mrs. George, Alexandria, Va.: Cap and 6 buttons of the Civil War period (227582).
State, U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.: Gold medal and _ scroll awarded to U.S. Exhibit at Brussels Fair, 1958 (227280); (through Fernleigh Graninger) model of U.S. Pavilion at the Brussels World’s Fair (226966).
Steffan, J. R., Paris, France: Chalcid fly, paratype (226487).
Stevens, Robert E. (See South Carolina Wildlife Resources Department)
Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N.J.: (Through Prof. Luigi Z. Pollara) 29 items of chemical apparatus (222983).
Stewart, Mrs. Dole W. Mrs. Maude P.)
Stewart, Dr. Harris B., Jr. Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Steyskal, George, Grosse Isle, Mich.: 19 flies from Central America, China, and the U.S. (230549).
Stiekman, Marvin, College Park, Md.: 3 home type mail boxes of different designs (230043).
Stiles, Everett C., Bellingham, Wash.: 1 marine mollusk, paratype, from off the coast of Washington (228286).
Stishov,S.M. (See Moscow Government University of M. V. Lomonsov)
Stock, Dr. Jan H. (See Zoologisch Museum) }
Stoker, Mrs. John E., Wilmette, IIl.: Chemise button belonging to Rebecca Latimer Felton (230358).
Steller, F. E., Cleveland Heights, Ohio: Kentucky rifle (222720).
(See White,
(See
Stone, Dr. Benjamin C. (See Hawaii, University of) Strand, William, Arlington, Va.:
Money clip, tie clip, button, and pair of earrings commemorating ‘Republican Centennial 1854-1954” (226243).
Strandtmann, Dr. R. W., Lubbock, Tex.: 28 birds from North Borneo and Thailand (227942).
Strasburg, Dr. Donald W. Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Streeter Collection, Edward C., New Haven, Conn.: (Through Dr. Bruno Kisch) 38 pharmaceutical labels of various sizes and captions (229518).
Strelak, Joseph S., Waukegan, IIl.: 21 first-day wrappers of the United States, United Nations, and Canadian stamps (228681); 15 first-day wrappers of the United States, Canada, and the United Nations (230479).
Strenzke, Dr. Karl. (See MaxPlanck-Institut fiir Meeresbiology)
Strite, Richard K., Hollis, N.Y.: First jet airmail flight cover bearing a United Nations airmail stamp (228803).
Strohecker, Dr. H. F., Coral Gables, Fla.: 24 insects, including 3 paratypes, from various localities in the U.S. (227424, 228967).
Strong, Mrs. Dudley Selah, Plainfield, N.J.: 2 framed photographs and a naval commission (226240).
Strong, Mrs. Lina H. (See Hickey, Ann Maria Hammond, deceased)
Struve, Dr. Wolfgang. (See Senckenberg Natur-Museum und ForschungsInstitut)
Stuart, W. W., Des Moines, Iowa: Damper regulator, clockwork, and Honeywell domestic thermostat and aquastat (226965).
Sturtevant, Dr. William S., Chevy Chase, Md.: Basketry mat (229481).
Sublette, Dr. James E., Natchitoches, La.: 58 midges from North America and Formosa, including holotypes, allotypes, and paratypes (226325, 226569).
Sullivan, Iva Etta, Washington, D.C.: 2 tape lace shawls (229642).
Summerfield, Hon. Arthur E., Washington, D.C.: Presentation album of 50
(See

<<<Page: 176>>>

first ‘‘American Credo” postage stamps (228949).
Sund, Dr. Paul N. (See _ InterAmerican Tropical Tuna Commission)
Surinam Philatelic Agency, New York, N.Y.: 20-cent mint postage stamp of Surinam commemorating the 5th anniversary of Constitution (230490).
Sutherland, Mrs. W. A., Washington, D.C.: 3 Vieux Paris porcelain dishes of the late 18th century (230357).
Suttkus, Dr. Royal D. (See Tulane University)
Svihla, Dr. Arthur, Seattle, Wash.: Dragon fly (225843).
Sweden, Geological Survey of, Stockholm, Sweden: (Through Dr. Kurt Fredriksson) 8 meteorites from Sweden (228921, exchange).
Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stockholm, Sweden: 68 phanerogams, collected in Ecuador by Dr. E. Asplund (220330); (through Dr. Herman Persson) 100 mosses from Sweden (230259, exchange).
Switzer, Dr. George, Washington, D.C.: Quartz crystal group from Sils Domleschg, Switzerland (227060). (See also Smithsonian Institution)
Tahn, M. F., Taipei, Taiwan: 14 moths from Formosa (225671).
Taiwan Malaria Institute, Taiwan, Formosa: (Through Dr. D. J. Pletsch) 67 mosquitoes from Taiwan (227428).
Takata, Dr. Michio. (See Hawaii Board of Commissioners of Agriculture and Forestry)
Tanjeloff, Julio, Buenos Aires, Argentina: Corundum from Brazil (230622).
Tappa, Mr. and Mrs. Albert, Arlington, Va.: In behalf of Maj. Harold Gilchrist Peacocke, Eritrea, Africa: Eritrea municipal flag (227251).
Tardieu-Blot, Mme. (See Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle)
Tarpley, Wallace A., Jackson, S.C.: 16 centipedes from Georgia and South Carolina (227566, 229470); 3 scarab beetles (229614).
Taube, Clarence M. University of)
(See Michigan,
Taulbee, Kelly L., Mt. Sterling, Ky.: 2 photographic prints, ‘‘Lady with a Fan” and ‘‘Devotion” (229644).
Taylor, Floyd B. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)Taylor Instrument Companies, Rochester, N.Y.: (Through W. H. Corwin) Tycos hand model aneroid sphygmomanometer (228690).
Tehran, University of, Tehran, Iran: (Through Dr. Yadollah Sahabi) 14 minerals from Iran (228468, exchange).
Tembe, V. B., Bombay, India: 12 sea anemones (223783).
Tennessee, University of, Knoxville, Tenn.: (Through Dr. A. C. Cole) 25 North American ants (225748, exchange).
Tennessee Polytechnic Institute, Cookesville, Tenn.: (Through Dr. Thomas C. Barr, Jr.) 19 insects, including holotype and allotype, from the U.S. (230524).
Termier, Dr. Henri. de Paris)
Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.: 687 phanerogams, 25 grasses, and 18 ferns collected in Brazil by H. S. Irwin (225576); 723 phanerogams, 31 grasses, and 5 ferns collected in Mexico by Robert King (229811).
Texas Foundries, Inc., Lufkin, Tex.: (Through Cal C. Chambers) Diesel engine (227588).
Texas Game and Fish Commission, Corpus Christi, Tex.: (Through Ernest G. Simmons) 12 marine worms, 43 crustaceans, 16 medusae, and mollusks and trematodes (223432).
Texas Research Foundation, Renner, Tex.: 45 cultivated grasses (209316) ; 199 grasses collected in Texas by Dr. Donovan §. Correll (216542); 42 phanerogams, 61 grasses, and 62 ferns from Guatemala (227091, 227356) ; 307 phanerogams collected in Texas mostly by Dr. C. L. Lundell (228942, exchange) ; 220 phanerogams from Texas (229639, exchange) ; (through Dr. C. L. Lundell) 552 phanerogams, 32 grasses, and 5 ferns from Central America, Mexico, and Texas (227792, exchange); 18
(See Université

<<<Page: 177>>>

phanerogams and 81 ferns from Guatemala (229889).
Thayer, Mrs. Paul, Springfield, Mass.: U.S. Marine Corps treble gilt button, 19th century (227071).
Thayer, Robert H., Washington, D.C.: Great blue heron (229451).
Thompson, J. Clark, Miami, Fla.: (Through Mrs. John Rider) facsimile copy of the Ulster County Gazette (227576).
Thompson, John R. U.S. Department of)
Thomssen, Richard W., Tucson, Ariz.: Mineral from Joplin, Mo. (222499, exchange); 16 minerals from Arizona (225669, exchange); fornacite on dioptase from the French Congo (227236).
Thornton, Dr. M. J., Buchanan, Dr. W. D., Lockhart, Dr. P. B., Grove, Dr. J. H., and Lester, Dr. V. L., South Bend, Ind.: (Through Dr. W. D. Buchanan) Bachem-Ziehn calibrated electroscope used for determining the intensity of X-ray tubes (228853).
Thorp, Robbin W., Berkeley, Calif.: 20 beetle larvae (229467).
Tidrick, Dale, Suitland, Md.: 3 marine fishes collected in the Atlantic Ocean off Cuba by donor (229148).
Tigner, Elmer E., Falls Church, Va.: Winter service dress uniform of the U.S. Marine Corps, worn by donor during World War I (226242).
Tigner, Mrs. Richard E., Cashmere, Wash.: 12 Marine uniform items of World War I (229508).
Timberlake, Prof. P. H., Riverside, Calif.: 5 bees, paratypes, from the U.S. (230531).
Tipton, Capt. Vernon J., Fort Clayton, Canal Zone: 1,353 miscellaneous insects from Panama and the Canal Zone and 1 tapeworm (229730, 230254). (See also Defense, U.S. Department of)
Titschack, Dr. E., Hamburg, Germany: 146 insects from Germany and Canary Islands (226572, 226699, exchanges).
Tittmann, Mrs. Margaret, Kew Gardens, N.Y.: 5,410 postage stamps of Mexico, silver medal and certificate
(See Interior,
awarded at FIPEX, 1956, and life membership certificate of the American Philatelic Society (229813).
Tobacco Research Institute, TsacHu Taiohung, Taiwan: (Through Dr. Chang Yu Cheng) 2 pupae of tobacco budworms (228990).
Tobin, Jack A., Livermore, Calif.: 14 ethnological items from _ various atolls in the Marshall Islands, Micronesia (228250).
Todd, John N., Coral Gables, Fla.: 12 scarab beetles from Florida (226717).
Todd, Ruth. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the; and Bolli, Dr. Hans M.)
Tomlinson, Jack, San Francisco, Calif.: Barnacle, holotype (227088).
Tommelstad, Eilevt, Oslo, Norway: 2 Uchermann-Kragmeter machine impressions used in Oslo, 1903-05 (229162).
Tomoshi, Miyamoto. (See Jacobs, Dr. George J.)
Townes, Dr. Henry K., Ann Arbor, Mich.: 33 wasps, types, from the U.S.A. (230140).
Trapier, Mrs. Aida. Pinckney Alston)
Trapier, Pinckney Alston (deceased): (Through Mrs. Aida Trapier) chintz quilt, linen damask tablecloth, National sewing machine, embroidered scarf, fancy apron, and 2 lace head scarves used by donor’s ancestors (225700); 2 Jacquard-woven table covers of the mid-19th century (229509).
Trapier, Mrs. Pinckney Alston, Washington, D.C.: Naval Belt buckle of the
(See Trapier,
mid-19th century (228299). (See also Prohme, Clio)
Traub, Lt. Col. Robert. (See Defense, U.S. Department of)
Travers, Mrs. Geraldine F. H., Middletown, Conn.: Handmade silk
autograph quilt and a memory book (226368).
Treasury, U.S. Department of the, Washington, D.C.: Bureau of Customs: uncut emerald from Colombia (229293) ; 6 guns, 2 knives with sheaths, 1 machete, and 1 stiletto with sheath (229387). Bureau of Engraving and Printing: 12 proofs from copper plates used for the

<<<Page: 178>>>

printing of paper money during the late 18th and 19th centuries (229649); (through Henry J. Holtzclaw) 5 articles used in the production of postage stamps (226540); (through Carl Pascheck) 4 items of book-binding equipment (230260). Bureau of the Mint: 2 medals struck in commemoration of the 150th Anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin (228396); 20 coins from Philadelphia and Denver mints; 2 sets of U.S. proof coins, 1960; 2 medals prepared for members of the 1960 Assay Commission (229030). Bureau of Internal Revenue: 3 rifles and a _ submachine gun (227453); (through Dana Latham) 1,289,296 obsolete U.S. tobacco and alcohol Internal Revenue stamps (225950); 31,500 Internal Revenue playing card stamps (226227); 15,000 obsolete U.S. revenue playing card stamps (230488). Coast Guard: Stop watch (225702) ; Fuller’s spiral slide rule (225751); 8 water-color and 3 oil paintings of World War II scenes painted by Coast Guard combat artists (226493). United States Coast Guard Academy: 2 paintings, 2 flags, 2 medals, and 1 sword relating to U.S. Coast Guard history (228688). U.S. Secret Service: (Through U. E. Baughman) 25 postage stamps (230036, deposit).
Treen, Paul, New Orleans, La.: Simplex motorbike, 1935 (230387). Trewavas, Dr. Ethelwynn. (See
Great Britain, Government of)
Trinity College, Washington, D.C.: (Through Sister St. John Nepomacine) Sartorius analytical balance (230393).
Trumpeter, Mrs. Gilbert, Slippery Rock, Pa.: German New Testament, dated 1735 (228472).
Tulane University, New Orleans, La.: 7 photographs of types of phanerogams (225915, exchange); (through Dr. Willis A. Eggler) 5 ferns and 12 phanerogams from Mexico (227747, 229632) ; (through Dr. George H. Penn) 1,199 crustaceans and 37 mollusks (225594) ; (through Dr. Royal D. Suttkus) 24,142 marine invertebrates, 45 mollusks (217425).
Tupman, Mary Wyatt. (See Wyait, Carl, Estate of)
Turnbull, Wade W. (See Carter Oil Company)
Turner, George T., Washington, D.C.: 93 miscellaneous stamps and covers of U.S. and various foreign countries (228290, 230473).
Turner, Dr. M. L., Washington, D.C.: Silver fork and spoon (229363).
Turner, Val, Santa Barbara, Calif.: 3 machinists’ tools (228762).
Tuthill, Dr. L. H., Honolulu, Hawaii: 55 insects from Peru (229463).
Tvedt, Reidar. (See United Nations Postal Administration)
Tyler, James C., Stanford, Calif.: 3 fishes collected by donor in the mouth of the Rio de la Plata off Montevideo, Uruguay, while aboard the USS Edisto (226198).
Uchida, Dr. Tohru, Sapporo, Japan: 4 sea anemones, paratypes (227694).
Uhlig, Frederic, New Alexandria, Va.: Program for the launching ceremony of the N.S. Savannah (226295).
Union of South Africa, Government of, Pretoria: Department of Agriculture: (Through Dr. H. K. Munro) 10 fruit flies from Africa (230525).
United Arab Republic, Egyptian Region, Cairo, Egypt: Postal Authority Philatelic Office: (Through Saad _ EIChichini) 36 mint stamps of the United Arab Republic (230039).
United Nations Postal Administration, United Nations, N.Y.: (Through Reidar Tvedt) 200 stamps and 9 items of postal stationery (227469); 100 4-cent and 8-cent World Refugee Year stamps and 10 air-letter sheets (228463); 100 complete sheets of 4-cent and 8-cent Palais de Chaillot commemorative postage stamps (229512); 1 complete sheet of each, 4-cent and 8-cent values, EHCAFE issue, United Nations (230042).
United States National Bank of Portland, Oregon, Klamath Falls, Oreg.: 2 50-cent tokens commemorating Klamath County Centennial celebration (226755).
United States Steel Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through T. W. Gamble) 3 samples of line pipe (226579).

<<<Page: 179>>>

Universidad Central de Venezuela, Maracay (Aragua), Venezuela: (Through Dr. F. Ferndndez-Yépez) 124 Lepidoptera from Venezuela (226720).
Universidad de Concepcién, Concepcién, Chile: (Through Dr. Jorge Artigas Coch) 20 fire ants from Chile (224125).
Universidad de Oriente, Santiago de Cuba, Cuba: (Through Prof. Manuel Lépez Figueiras) 151 phanerogams, 1 grass, 12 ferns, and 34 cryptogams collected in Cuba by Prof. Figueiras (229871).
Universidad Nacional de_ Trujillo, Trujillo, Peru: 20 phanerogams collected in Peru by Dr. A. Lopez Miranda (221103); 29 phanerogams collected in Peru by Prof. Abundio Sagastegui Alva (222001).
Universidad Nacional de Tucuman, Republic of Argentina: (Through Dr. Abraham Willink) specimen of the Raco, Argentina, meteorite (228611, exchange).
Universidade Rural do Estado de Minas Gerais, Vigosa, Minas Gerais, Brazil: 148 phanerogams, 24 grasses, 1 fern, and 1 cryptogam (226107).
Université de Belgrade, Zemun, Yugoslavia: (Through Guido Nonveiller) 6 wasps from Yugoslavia (225333, exchange).
Université de Lille, Lille, France: (Through Dr. 8. Deblock) slide of parasitic helminth from France (228520).
Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada: Institut Botanique: 17 phanerogams (225685, exchange).
Université de Paris, Paris, France: (Through Dr. Henri Termier) 23 fossil brachiopods from the Silurian of Morocco (224917, exchange); (through Prof. Claude Guillemin) 32 minerals from various localities (228133, exchange).
Universitets Zoologiska Institution, Lund, Sweden: (Through Dr. BengtOlof Landin) 13 beetles from eastern Canada (226232); (through Dr. Carl H. Lindroth) 3 springtails, holotypes, from Alaska and St. Lawrence Island (229618).
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, England: 34 phanerogams (229638, exchange).
Uppsala, University of, Sweden: 35 miscellaneous (228147, exchange).
Uribe Uribe, Dr. Lorenzo. Instituto de Ciencias Naturales)
Utah, University of, Salt Lake City, Utah: (Through Dr. James A. Whelan) 3 minerals, types, from Southern Oquirrh Mountains, Utah (227523, exchange).
Utrecht, State University of, Utrecht, Netherlands: 4 phanerogams collected in Surinam by J. C. Lindeman (227443).
Vail, Dr. S. P., St. Simons Island, Ga.: Walkingstick from Georgia (227354).
Valliere, Clara, Phoenix, Ariz.: (Through Mrs. W. L. Cavanaugh) glass goblet made to commemorate the centennial of the Declaration of Independence, 1876 (227318).
Uppsala, lichens
(See
Van Cleve, Dr. Richard. (See Washington, University of) van der Vecht, Dr. J. (See Rijks-
museum van Natuurlijke Historie)
Vangstein, Einar. (See Messrs. A/S
Thor Dahl)
Van Hyning, O. C., Maitland, Fla.: 25 phanerogams from Mexico (225681, 225746).
van Lith, J. P., Rotterdam, Netherlands: 3 wasps, paratypes (226731, exchange).
Van Nierop, Johanna, Washington, D.C.: 34 lace samples (230142).
Van Pelt, Gerald F., Winona, Minn.: Wooden dollar and 2 wooden nickels issued for the Upper Mississippi Valley Coin Convention, 1959 (228297).
Vargas C., Dr. C., Cuzco, Phanerogam from Peru (225855).
Varner, Donald, Washington, D.C.: Vacuum cleaner (230430).
Vartanian & Sons, New York, N.Y.: Emerald (229099, exchange).
Vasconcelos, Francisco Moacyr, Pernambuco, Brazil: Tantalite from Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil (226617).
Peru:

<<<Page: 180>>>

Vazquez, Alberto, Arlington; Va.: 17 insects from the U.S. and Mexico (230133).
Veevers, Dr. J. J. Government of)
Velasquez, Dr. Carmen C., Quezon City, Philippines: 31 freshand brackishwater mollusks from Rizal province, P.I. (227170).
Velek, John, Chicago, Ill.: 21 miscellaneous mint and used postage stamps of Czechoslovakia (228680).
Vermont, University of, Burlington, Vt.: (Through Dr. H. W. Vogelmann) phanerogam and 32 grasses (229113, exchange).
Verrill, Mrs. A. Hyatt, Chiefland, Fla.: 18 beetles, and 3 bugs from Florida (224845).
Vhay, John S. (See O’Neal, William)
Victoria University of Wellington, Wellington, New Zealand: (Through Peter Castle) 1 fish from New Zealand (227598, exchange).
Villalobos, Alejandro F., Mexico, D.F.: 2 shrimps, paratypes (228860).
Viasov, Prof. (See Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)
Vogel, Robert M., Takoma Park, Md.: Hand glass cutter and adjustable wrench (228490).
Vogelmann, Dr. H. W. mont, University of)
Voigtlander, A. G., Braunschweig, Germany: (Through Hempel and Wiistefeld) 30 items of historical photographic equipment and documents (225469).
von Rosen, Dr. Hans, Solna, Sweden: 1 chaleid fly from Sweden (230534).
Voss, Dr. Gilbert L. (See Miami, University of)
Waggaman-Brawner Realty Corp., Washington, D.C.: (Through William W. Brawner) iron stove, 3 gas stoves, and 31 gas lamps, burners, and accessories (226327).
Wagner, Dr. Warren H., Jr. Michigan, University of)
Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 12,000 Tertiary invertebrate fossils from New Zealand (222611); 35 rare brachiopods from the Permian of Sicily (225239); 507 Mesozoic echinoids and
563136—60——12
(See Australia,
(See Ver-
(See
other invertebrate fossils from Belgium and Holland (225736); 1,146 echinoids from the Mesozoic of France (225737, 225738); 1,000 Devonian fossils from New York State collected by Dr. and Mrs. G. A. Cooper and Dr. R. 8. Boardman (225830); 82 echinoids, 5 crinoids, and 102 brachiopods from the Mesozoic and Tertiary of Normandy (226616) ; 240 vertebrate fossils from the middle and lower Eocene of Wyoming (228137); 600 miscellaneous invertebrates and 20 plants from the Pennsylvanian of Oklahoma (228138) ; 98 blocks of Permian limestone from Glass Mountains, the Guadalupes, and _ Sierra Diablo, Tex., and 500 invertebrates from the Permian Capitan limestone of the Carlsbad Caverns area, New Mexico, collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper and Dr. R. E. Grant, summer of 1959 (228749); 10 ecrinoids and 465 mollusks from Holdenville and Vamoosa formations, Pennsylvanian of Oklahoma (228927); 37 invertebrates from the Silurian of Czechoslovakia (229350).
Walker, Dr. Boyd W. fornia, University of)
Walker, Charles M., Fort Knox, Ky.: (Through Lt. Col. Walter K. Freeland) tank crew helmet of World War II (228298).
Walker, Mrs. Robert Hunt, Baltimore, Md.: 3 woman suffrage pins (229385).
Wallace, Dr. George, Pittsburgh, Pa.: 3 chalcid flies, paratypes, from Pennsylvania (226708).
Walsh, Lt. Don, San Francisco, Calif.: Cacheted cover commemorating the historic descent of the bathyscaph Trieste, and 2 associated photographs (230482); (through Jacques Piccard) 49-star United States flag carried by the U.S. Navy bathyscaph Trieste to a depth of 37,800 feet, Jan. 23, 1960 (229816).
Walton, George H., Washington, D.C.: 5 lantern slides (228754).
Walton, John. (See Armstrong Cork Co.)
Ward, Dr. Daniel B. University of)
(See Cali-
(See Florida,

<<<Page: 181>>>

Wards Natural Science Establishment, Inc., Rochester, N.Y.: 6 minerals from Germany (230013, exchange); (through David E. Jensen) 2 holmquistites and 2 scapolites from Canada (225624, exchange); 66 minerals from various localities (228135, 229607, exchanges); 291 minerals from Bolivia (229415, exchange).
Warfield, Thomas P., Baltimore, Md.: 4 Canadian communion tokens (226335) ; 3 rare notes and an early Philadelphia bank check (229514); 25 proof impressions of portrait vignettes and 2 obsolete bank notes issued in Tennessee (230465).
Warner, George W. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Warner, Rawleigh. (See Pure Oil Co.)
Warren, Mrs. Lucian C., Bethesda, Md.: 2 bound volumes of Godey’s Lady’s Book for 1855 (226814).
Washburn, Dr. Wilcomb E., Washington, D.C.: Philatelic cover bearing a stamp of Greece honoring Imre Nagy (230269).
Washington, State College of, Puyallup, Wash.: 2 grasses from Washington (227791).
Washington, University of, Seattle, Wash.: (Through Prof. Theodore C. Frye) 225 mosses collected in Nevada by Dr. Elva Lawton (223676, exchange) ; (through Dr. Paul L. Illg) 1 poeobioid worm (229322); (through Dr. Don K. Sherman) 60 Foraminifera, paratypes, Lower Tertiary of California (227414, exchange); (through Dr. Arthur D. Welander) fish from the China Sea (214944, exchange); (through Dr. Arthur D. Welander and Dr. Richard Van Cleve) 26 fishes from Puget Sound (228639).
Washington District Corps of Engineers, Washington, D.C.: (Through Alvin A. Snyder) 100 copepods (226990).
Wass, Dr. Marvin L., Cullowhee, N.C.: 5 crabs, including holotype and allotype (227014). (See also Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Waterbury Buckle Company, Waterbury, Conn.: (Through J. C. Little) wire-forming machine (229647).
Waterman, Dr. Alan T. tional Science Foundation)
Waterman, Ann, Cambridge, Mass.: 19 mosses from Michigan (230567).
Watkins, C. Malcolm, Washington, D.C.: Souvenir model of Leaning Tower of Pisa (229361); fragments of terra cotta tobacco pipes from the John Taber Pottery site, East Alton, N.H., 1864-72 (230017); bottle sherds, 18th century, from the foundation of John Mercer’s windmill, Marlborough, Va. (230018).
Watkins, Mrs. Charles H., Middleton, Mass.: Shaker bonnet and boy’s cap, 19th century (228835); 2 earthenware drain tiles (230015); 12 earthenware pieces, 8 clay buttons, and clay knob (230433).
Watkins, Dr. J. Lloyd, Wichita Falls, Tex.: Fossil fish from Dallas County, Tex. (229851). (See also Midwestern University)
Wauer, Roland. Department of the)
Wayne University, Detroit, Mich.: (Through Dr. Will Parsons) Quartz with byssolite from El Paso County, Tex. (228926).
Weaver, Mr. and Mrs. B. Woodruff, Washington, D.C.: 2 dinner plates from the President Polk state service (227686).
Weaver, Robert D. Mrs. Joshua H.)
Webb, Mrs. Earline, Silver Spring, Md.: 15 marine mollusks from Puerto Rico (228750).
Webb, George, Hampton, Va.: 9 mollusks from the Miocene of Virginia (225492, 227538).
Webb, J. H., Rochester, Mollusk from Mariveles Bay, (225460).
Weber, Dr. Hareld C. (See Massachusetts Institute of Technology)
Weber, Martha C., Owings, Md.: Portion of skull of a porpoise from shore of Chesapeake Bay, Md. (230415).
(See Na-
(See Interior, U.S.
(See Holland,
Weber, Dr. William A. (See Colorado, University of) Webster, Mrs. Natalie P. (See
Peters, Mrs. Natalie W.)

<<<Page: 182>>>

Weems, Dr. Howard V., Jr., Gainesville, Fla.: 38 centipedes from Florida (225979, 229466); 163 centipedes from various localities (228930).
Wehn, James A., Seattle, Wash.: 2 medals commemorating the Lincoln Sesquicentennial, 1959, and the Washington Territorial Centennial, 1953 (228167).
Weida, Mrs. Opal D., Port Republic, Md.: Red fox from Prince Georges Co., Md. (229603).
Weill, Raymond H., New Orleans, La.: Replica of Confederate States of America half dollar, 1861 (230457) ; 189 Confederate and State Bank bills (230458).
Welander, Dr. Arthur D. ington, University of)
Welder Wildlife Foundation, Sinton, Tex.: (Through Gerald G. Raun) 4 box turtles from Arkansas (228554).
Wellenius, Dr. Otto H., HelsingforsKottberg, Finland: 410 ants from Australia, New Guinea, Europe, and islands off the coast of Africa (226707, exchange).
34 sponges (228117). (See also North
Wells, Dr. Harry W., Buxton, N.C.: Carolina, University of)
Wells, Dr. John W., Ithaca, N.Y.: 15 brachiopods from the Devonian of New York (225829). (See also Cornell University)
Wells, Lt. William H. U.S. Department of)
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr. Paul Fejos) cast of human fossil upper jaw (229435).
Wentz, Mrs. Adrienne K., Washington, D.C.: 3 pieces 20th-century Rookwood pottery (225864).
West, Mrs. John R., Annapolis, Md.: Side chair (225991).
West Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.: 176 phanerogams, 4 grasses, 2 ferns, and 37 mosses (224749, 229637, exchanges); (through Elizabeth A. Bartholomew) 56 mosses (226077).
Westchester County Coin Club, Inc., Pelham, N.Y.: Bronze medal com-
(See Wash-
(See Defense,
memorating the 25th anniversary of the donor, 1934-59 (226762).
Western Union Telegraph Company, New York, N.Y.: (Through Grosvenor
Hotchkiss) Universal stock printer (228177). Westfall, Dr. Minter, Gainesville,
Fla.: 3 shrimps (225795).
Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Washington, D.C.: Bronze medal struck in honor of Dr. Victor van Straelen, 1959 (230464). (See also American Museum of Natural History; Gorgas Memorial Laboratory; and Smithsonian Institution)
Wheeler, Dr. G. C. Dakota, University of)
Wheeler, Dr. Marshal! R., Austin, Tex.: 52 flies, including 18 paratypes, from North and South America (230548).
Whelan, Dr. James A. (See Utah, University of)
Whipple, Dr. Fred L. nian Institution)
White, John H., Washington, D.C.: 2 glass plate negatives showing portraits of President McKinley (227799) ; photograph of a commemorative ribbon, 1828, decorated with a view of an early railroad train; and negative of a photograph of Woodrow Wilson (228687).
White, Mrs. Maude P., Monticello, Miss.: (Through Mrs. Dole W. Stewart) 1 limonite from Monticello (225663).
Whitford, Dr. A. E. (See California, University of)
(See North
(See Smithso-
Whiting, Almon C., Washington, D.C.: 6 wooden stringed instruments (227889).
Whiting, Dr. Marjory, Washington, D.C.: 4 hats from Formosa, 3 baskets from Guam and Ponape, Caroline Islands (228744).
Whitley, Dr. Gilbert. tralia, Government of)
Whitten, Horace, Schriever, La.: 7 fishes, 17 marine invertebrates, and 16 mollusks from Gulf of Mexico south of Houma, La. (225205),
Wicker, Dr. Cyrus French, Charlotte, Vt.: 6 foreign and domestic first flight airmail covers (225919).
(See Aus

<<<Page: 183>>>

Wieser, W. (See Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)
Wiest, Ludwig, Newark, N.J.: Machinists’ tools (228485).
Wigley, Roland L. U.S. Department of the)
Wilhelm, August H. (deceased) : Postage stamp collection (210902, bequest).
Willem, John M., New York, N.Y.: 17 Civil War tokens, 3 German brass counters, and a complete set of South African gold, silver, and copper coins of 1952 (227903).
Willey, Robert F. Steel Corp.)
William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Va.: (Through Prof. John T. Baldwin, Jr.) 15 ferns (228797).
William Jewell College, Liberty, Mo.: (Through Dr. L. J. Gier) 200 miscellaneous cryptogams (227383, exchange).
Williams, Hermann W., Jr., Washington, D.C.: Original cornerstone of Fort Louisburg (228685).
Williams, J. D., Arlington, Va.: 2 bank notes, 19th century (225989).
Williams, Dr. Louis O., Beltsville, Md.: 3 phanerogams, types (225680, 227784).
Williams, Mrs. Margaret Grosch, Crozet, Va.: 3 engraved woodblocks by Osear Grosch (226753); hand-tinted ambrotype (226955).
Williams, R. B. (See Alaska Department of Health)
Williams, R. V., Boulder, Colo.: 28 centipedes and 8 millipedes from Colorado (225674).
Williams, Scott J., Scottsdale, Ariz.: 5 minerals from Arizona and Mexico (225728); 71 minerals from various localities (226319, 227061, 227259, 227504, exchanges). (See also Scott Williams Mineral Company)
Williams, W. C., Hanford, Calif.: Manicure tools (226917).
Williamson, Francis S. L. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)
Willink, Dr. Abraham. (See Universidade Nacional de Tucumdén)
Willis, Dr. Edwin R., Norwood, Mass.: 23 unusual cockroaches from
(See Interior,
(See Bethlehem
Madagascar (226709). (See also Central Research Laboratory)
Wilson, E. F., Topeka, Kans.: 4 Civil War era stereoptican slides (227255).
Wilson, Mrs. R. G., Miami, Fla.: 4 phanerogams (225747).
Wilson, Ist Lt. William T., New York, N.Y.: 55 fishes from Sidi Slimane Air Force Base, Morocco, collected by donor (225388).
Windsor, Edward, Naylor, Md.: 5 pieces of ship timbers recovered from the Patuxent River, believed to be relics from the War of 1812 (226241).
Wise, A. E. (See Zonolite Company)
Wisseman, Dr. Charles L., Baltimore, Md.: Hoary bat from Maryland (227242).
Wolf, Lt. Col. Frederick S. Defense, U.S. Department of)
Wood, Albert G., North Scituate, R.I.: (Through George A. Hawkins) graduated steel shrink rule (226422).
Wood, Bennett, Washington, D.C.: 28 miscellaneous state revenue stamps and 1 private telegraph stamp (228154).
Wood, Dr. D. M., Hamilton, Ontario, Canada: 1 beaver parasite from North America (226726).
Wood, Elbert C., Clermont, Fla.: Child’s bicycle of 1885 (229882).
Woods, Mr. and Mrs. E. Charles, Alexandria, Va.: Victorian table and cabinet, and a Jacobean bed (225691).
Woods, Loren P. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Mass.: (Through Dr. George D. Grice, Jr.) 22 copepods, including holotypes and paratypes, 8 shrimps, and 10 amphipods (227272, 227825, 229560); (through W. Wieser) 10 isopods (225551).
Woodside, W. W., Pittsburgh, Pa.: 2 communion tokens from New Kensington, Pa., and Roney’s Point, W. Va. (228807).
Woolston, Arthur L., Primavera, Paraguay: 75 phanerogams, 5 ferns, and 1 cryptogam from Paraguay (225909, 227978, 229571).
(See

<<<Page: 184>>>

Worthley, E. G., Cambridge, Mass.: 2 cryptogams from Antarctica (230564).
Woytkowski, Felix, Lima, Peru: 39 phanerogams collected in Peru by donor (223959).
Wright, Mr. and Mrs. E. P., Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.: 25 invertebrate fossils from the Ipperwash formation, crinoid and 2 brachiopods from the Arkona formation of Ontario (229359).
Wright, Robert. (See Commerce, U.S. Department of)
Wullschleger, A. E., New York, N.Y.: 7 textile examples of the printing and weaving techniques used to produce pictures in fabrics (229510); 5 silk screens and a length of printed fabric (230373).
Wyatt, Carl, Estate of, Washington, D.C.: (Through Mary Wyatt Tupman) 267 watches (230383).
Wyeth, Mrs. George Austin, Jr., Chevy Chase, Md.: Dress of the bustle period and one of the 1920’s (225339).
Yale University, New Haven, Conn.: (Through Dr. Carl O. Dunbar) 2 brachiopods from the Permian of Greenland (229144, exchange) ; (through Prof. George Gray) Atlas circular slide rule (227907); (through Richard S&S. Roby) 19 items of chemical apparatus and an induction coil (229279). School of Forestry: 136 phanerogams and 2 ferns collected in Panama by William L. Stern and K. L. Chambers (228941, exchange); 83 phanerogams collected in the Florida Keys by William L. Stern and K. L. Chambers (229623, gift-exchange).
Yanch, C. Darby. Mrs. Harley R.)
Yang, Won Tack, Yung Do, Pusan,
(See Climpson,
Korea: 15 amphipods (229054). (See also Central Fisheries Experiment Station)
Yasumatsu, Dr. K., Fukuoka, Japan: 4 chalcid flies from Japan (226485).
Yedlin, Neal, New Haven, Conn.: Quartz coated with chlorite from East
Granby, Conn., and beta-uranophane from Grafton, N.H. (225727); tetradymite from Memphis Mine, Organ, N. Mex. (225913) ; digenite on neptunite from San Benito Co., Calif. (225969) ; 8 minerals from various localities (230242).
Yochelson, Dr. Ellis L. (See Fletcher, Dr. Harvey; Kobayashi, Prof. Teiichi; and Lintz, Dr. Joseph, Jr.)
Yoder, Dr. H., Washington, D.C.: 2 jadeites from Clear Creek, Calif. (225833).
Yokosuka City Museum, Kurihama, Japan: (Through Dr. Yota Haneda) 9 fishes from Japan (227103, exchange).
Young, Donald Hilton. (See Hilton, Mrs. Michael)
Yunker, Dr. C. E., Ottawa, Ontario,
Canada: 11 scorpions from Egypt (229461). Zander, Randolph V., Alexandria,
Va.: “Manilla” or ring money from West Africa (228761).
Zaslavskij, Dr. V. A. (See Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)
Zehner, Mrs. Harry, Washington, D.C.: General Electric monitor top refrigerator (230369).
Zeliff, Dr. C. Courson, State College, Pa.: 22 medusae (226782).
Zen, Dr. E-an, Washington, D.C.: 10 Ordovician brachiopods from western Vermont (228746).
Zinn, Dr. Donald J. Island, University of)
Zonolite Company, Travelers Rest, S.C.: (Through A. E. Wise) 4 zonolites (227774).
Zoological Museum, Tring, Herts., England: (Through G. H. E. Hopkins) 2 insects from Europe (229616).
Zoologisch Museum, Amsterdam, Netherlands: (Through Dr. Jan H. Stock) 15 alecyonarians, crustacean hosts (224744).
Zumpt, Dr. F. (See African Institute for Medical Research)
(See Rhode

<<<Page: 185>>>



<<<Page: 186>>>



<<<Page: 187>>>



<<<Page: 188>>>

Paki) Len

<<<Page: 189>>>



<<<Page: 190>>>

3 ¢ e 5 ay : \ ° . iu a ry ow 4 % if * = r ‘ > ' a. : ; i . ' * <a Fos bind — = ad x ie s z None * c . . ? Se an \ r * ss = = 3 hens sulk & : g ay bs ee 5 ve ’ P e 4 . — ‘ “ one a i “ 7 oo 7 = , aii a 4 van sisi: ; g ar, 2 # at fi fe. prone ~ ao ney eG * 7 <3 ~ * 1 ats hecote ayy ’ . -~ — ’ A i ‘ e o ip 7 a ann + ad ‘ae ot A veers ie 4 af 1 > he, 7— _ t — _ “ we. aan a _ ee . R X * ty Pe ; te "7 is = ~~ = uae eet f 5 7 = —— " = . »— pone ne — _ ee . “ t re d : ~ . “ Se oe ; & . ns e mas, A Fete t 4 x ee me . b — ve “ aa at er meme! “5 een yam hata Dimas pares 5 ae i se = a = tn heme! == sy ~— heater = — , oe F = hceal — \ : per oS = — = es ante *e act a, 5 7 = = = : « “ — 4 — Fipsiancs — er] = ae boas ed sais = — is, — —~ be ~--inne’ enc cent fest ee es pase 5 er aon, <4 see yao = A P hike nial ¢ ‘ = .. a? = = . ~ ~ ‘ x= ‘ 2 ef —_ —— — — a ~ we th ernie! Sar Tl er Newey ~ we ’ ‘ vv 4 % J 2 e . al AL 4 eye * a aie bes is .% . ae — aw — | = eo ae on oes am i a — * se Sod ed aeetany ft or Ase 4 5 _——, ta crores ot —— ~~ ~~ — re a ett dane a ee pares neha x. ‘ean we BE ‘reverent Pentaline Denne ‘ ‘ — i awe — _ —= ne ae Femme = homcat ~ ‘ a all — non —— “ = + = > 7 ; —fron _ a — _ a ee an es a non 7 —— . chin ® Sek ” saps cs < WEE a : . —_ ss 7 16 a — — “ ee teat ae eave Si ~ ~ an ~ ‘ fi . ~ af Se —— i notes -, ~ ea " 5 ‘s _s — on = vy Ba . <i — _ a ln Ke oar: 7 5. ae an bane — hoes —_ 7 — ~~ eo) ne a — oe r. a F. —— <a — ~ = —< ; cs tr nn ~ ra 2 ! + : y , P opel — a ' — — won >= — mats, S e mao . . eee ome Ah. ‘ 7 2 ‘ fig “4 . a ‘i ~ < 7, = ¥ = 3 7 Z 2 ; ;

<<<Page: 191>>>

: os me ee | fo
“Ti ie

<<<Page: 192>>>

\ * 8 e ; 7 2 ~ % % ; x ” 2<~ ‘ Meee wt ~ 4 , a3 7) ‘i » i v bs od 1 4‘ — Pn 5 ee ee Pee me = “i en — fant ie eh — = -

<<<Page: 193>>>

iy hain ;
J cinkaeem IM nine ;
; i ioe. Sah ; é ; 4 Ce ane “ eds , F ei 7 5 ny : ale hh a Ne FS i ad 7 \ \ oh ty : t i c ican a By G une Oy aes: ' : ‘ a ite 0] fant ‘ : : Sie 1 ¢ IL ‘ in Cat 7 aie s s 1, s ' yl z ec Re i is f ; 2 Y at) een o ‘ \ Hi a : i \ 4 ~ L x t mci f z 4 ori My ; ae) i i . i . = 3 “) , a a i i ie
i any ! iy r ( i 5 4 i u G P h i re , v A : y ~ : 5 ; ; H Lv ty rf ; t : K { i : J ; t Y. . t ‘ , f Lb! if wy . if 7 . ! ae 5 5 4 * j * c 2 3) 1 i} i hs \ alr = x : a ; “ } ‘ \ j ‘ Y es) ¥ F ti Ri al : Ze 3 ae 25 ‘ 1 1 ry ‘ us en : F y \ y { c i i i = r . T ¥ a C » a o Ns 16 : a iy ; = he , ; : ‘e ; fie 7 pen = * ee \ f ‘ co, ( if < 1 y 5 * , A vy ; j i F i es ‘ : Y i | oes } ‘ i ic & t 2 Shes ti ‘ } ¥ a ‘ 5 * ip ye i = “i ; ~ ; ' 3 ee te 1 j ae 4 H ' : ny 1 19.7) Na { 1 1 . ~ a . " ; F : xy ee eee : aime < 7 A Ne oe be = if “| , 2 D ' : att % (fs ! Al il nh ={ at = 5 oe ie |e) fa oie ; ‘ ai Sui | ‘ _) as . q if 1 ‘ r pee Fe 0 : hs Fis } a ~ Vy 1 J : : in ; , j i an b ToaeSeet Ly Zi u La ra 1 1y v i ‘ ee ; ' mi u etter nn pity i Gt Ra er je ‘ | ;

<<<Page: 194>>>

