<<<Page: 1>>>

ys ae we Ex x £ re cee yw Pe ces bad) es , e, oo at Aes *y ‘p OR Bs
rel CAAA ECE PERSE kk he cae he aC Onet ee Seg i oy Ye te y Woy 5 @ out spt ge i May wD are kOe
¥ Para M Oy aoe N ya L Naar Peas iy. d MMe H |
vate a ee ay ae we py ae a FM My mm MMS ON ek eee Ne

<<<Page: 2>>>

BethouaNzicavee aman nioaih anaeue Chiral Lee ie a a . f ao ee bs a a ae A i oy iH) aN vs H : ce i Da i Hills
ai ae a uF Hes _.
Ness A oe .
cae Bay Wee a ee oo ae as Lees Raa ee a MENINeRy ae Aa in i an NGS H ae vi iy ae oe i ue
Slew
Se on,
ree preva A eae _ eae rs ere = ary mae es eae se :
aBs H
Aone
“S ete
So tee Petts
Ecees
ee a Witte f ana ; oo on | ee oo ‘a i : oo
. SAY ue ae va a He a ye as A get
Ne i . cu a . oo
a AUF
wettee ant ate
Sees pees
Spe a ocr: ert meaner ete: oer
4 i ‘ Be ‘ ‘ i Aes <1 SANS Sai nes ? a ; i Bes
eI < Roms 7
ON ged het
Seaenes ercen
eas (et
y ih SRE: i on o i ae Rae ve
NUE Sa ‘ a ROSTER) Sts atin SiaiaeH Habe Es) ; ns a 0 ie it
o are
Mies set FUR crane
A Hae) a ie baad is esis “, ‘ Hit
‘t Ses ; Ns ¢
Ni reetibree eh Hee ites 2 ne a
4 A EOTAI NY a ; Ui
BENGE SNE se
. i AE
oe sesh a i ae
ia ude BYB Bash ‘ ASU eA

<<<Page: 3>>>

Annan
a ‘Res eee a ieee ~ ¥
> acts a \ AYLI) Naf
nnn" WANA’
ae i A ny
mangpaneat A
< £ <a ree EEG
< cK G BAECS (rane & SS See: oa RE
NAR eAN AAA
AA Ay
i BEE KML
an ‘ ARe a } NA An
ae <<
A Ww A A AN RaarNaat AW,
f\ [sey An i N\A
ita /
n\ Nn
AAA, ~aAR AN nan
A A Anns Anant Xn
A N aA’ nN rp A A
AR nah Aan
KU en So ae C. < “4 «& : arre” ay RS. = Co CE ES SS
: See Cae SO | Ge eee ES CRE KBox
o< GK CEOS ai a a : Ee See EEE SE EC
Ce. ns cc
See. x 5s Kae OS Se a
SOS SS ge ee ES ee, <a OOS FeO <n oe ame a
AAAAAAA anwnnntn
n—NhA
EEE “ MC. LEEK, GS tet a ASE
$3 Cs Pan @ 2a<ae SS ee < ane ea (_ <<a <c cs << an aie << <<ae eG ea. So <a GRA CIES va, cio ft See = Say ae <@E CEEE SS ‘eee ec Se ere a <<a eS Se <
A mn A p
<x... Gece KEES AOC ite eK CEES, CO

<<<Page: 4>>>

° My >) 7 > a a Ad pend ai

<<<Page: 5>>>



<<<Page: 6>>>



<<<Page: 7>>>



<<<Page: 8>>>

SpEcIAL SESSION.
Of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, showing the Operations, Lpenditures and Condition of the Institution, up te January 1, 1851.
To the Senate and House of Representatives:
In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in Bena of the Regenis, submit to Congress, as a Report of the operations, expenditures and condition of the Institution, the following documents :
1. Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations of the Institution during the year 1850, including Reports from the Assistant Secretaries, qelbye to the Library and Museum.
2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian Fund, and also a detailed account of all the expenditures from the beginning of the Institution
to the end of 1850.
3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made in 18: 50, in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice, including a Report of the Architect on the same.
4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents during their Fifth Annual Meeting.
Oo. An Appendix.
Respectfully submitted, ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor, JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary.
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :
GrNnTLEMEN :—During the past year the several parts of the plan of organization have been “prosecuted as efficiently as the portion of the income which could be devoted to them would permit. The financial affairs are in a prosperous condition, and though the funds are burthened with the erection of a costly building, and the expenditures trammeled by restrictions growing out of the requisitions of the charter of incorporation, yet the results. thus far obtained, are such as satisfactorily to prove that the Institution is domg good service in the way of promoting and diffusing knowledge.
Though the programme of organization has been given in two of the annual reports and extensively published in the newspapers, its eae does not appear to be as widely known and as properly appreciated a could be desired. Indeed it will be necessary at intervals to republish the terms of the bequest, and also the general principles of the plan which

<<<Page: 9>>>

ae 6
has been adopted, in order that the public may not only be informed of what the Institution is accomplishing, but also reminded of what ought reasonably to be expected from its operations. Moreover, there is a tendency in the management of public institutions to lose sight of the object for which they were established, and hence it becomes important frequently to advert to the principles by which they ought to be governed. | beg leave, therefore, as introductory to this report, briefly to recapitulate some of the propositions of the programme of organization, and to state some of the facts connected with its adoption.
Siruson left his property, in case of the death of his nephew, to whom it was first bequeathed, ‘‘to found at Washington under the name of the
fo) Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.’? These are the only words of the testator to
serve as a guide to the adoption of a plan for the execution of his beneyolent design. They are found, however, when attentively considered to ate of legitimate deductions sufficiently definite and comprehensive.
The bequest is made to the United States, in trust for the good of ee
The objects of the Institution are two-fold; first, to increase, se-
cond to diffuse knowledge; objects which, though often confounded with each other, are logically distinet and ought to be separately regarded. The first is the enlargement of the existing stock of knowledge by the discovery of new truths, and the second is the dissemination of these and sas truths among men.
ENO particular kind of knowledge is designated, hence a liberal interpre ae of the bequest will exclude no part of the great domain of science and literature from the degree of attention its importance may demand.
4. Since mankind are to be benefitted by the bequest, any unnecessary expenditure on merely local objects, would not be in accordance with the mene administration of the trust.
Though the funds are generally considered large, and much is expe oe of them, they are really small in proportion to the demands made upon them. The annual income of the bequest, is less than half the cost of ‘dee publication of a single yearly report of the Patent office.
. In order therefore, that the limited income may effect the greatest ea of good, it should be expended in doing that which cannot be done as well by other means.
These views which have commanded the assent of all unprejudiced and reflecting persons, who have studied the subject, have been the guiding principles i in all cases in which I have had any power of direction, and | am happy to say they are fully adopted by the present directors and ofhcers of the Institution.
To carry out the design of the testator, various plans were proposed, but most of these were founded on an imperfect apprehension of the terms of the Will. The great majority of them contemplated merely the diffusion of popular information, and neglected the first and the most prominent requisition of the bequest, namely : the ‘increase of knowledge.” The only plan in strict conformity with the terms of the Will, and w hich oe sally commended itself to men of science, a class to which Smithson himself belonged, was:that of an active living organization, intended principally to promote the discovery and diffusion of new truths by instituting eriginal researches, under the direction of suitable persons, in History,

<<<Page: 10>>>

7 rh] Antiquities, Ethnology and the various branches of Physical Science, and by publishing and distributing among libraries and other public institutions, accounts of the results which might thus be obtained, as well as of those of the labors of men of talent which could not otherwise be given to the world.
This _plan which was probably in the mind of the donor when he gave expression to the few but comprehensive words which indicate the objec ts of the bequest, is found from our experience to be eminently practical. It requires no costly building or expensive permanent establishment. Its
operations, limited only by ‘the amount of the income, are such as to affect the condition of man wherever literature and science are cultivated, while it tends in this country to give an impulse to original thought, which, amidst the strife of politics, “and the inordinate pursuit of wealth, Is of all things most desirable.
It was with the hope of being able to assist in the practical deve! ‘lopment of this plan, that  documents published under ‘their authority.
5. To all incorporated Public Libraries in this country, not included in either of the foregoing classes, now containing more than seven thousand volumes; and to smaller ‘Libraries, where a whole State, or large district w ould be otherwise left unsupplied.
The author of each memoir receives, as his only compensation, a certain number of copies of it, to distribute among his friends, or to present to individuals who may be occupied in the same line of research, In this
way single memoirs are distributed to individuals, and especially to those who are most actively engaged in promoting discoveries. Copies of the reports, and also in some. cases, of particular memoirs, are sent to all meteorological observers. Besides these, we have placed on the list the more prominent Academies and Lyceums, as recipients of the minor publications. It is also intended, in order to benefit the public more generally, to place on sale copies of memoirs and reports, though on account of the number required for the supply of Institutions, we have not as yer, been able to carry this plan into effect.
No copyright has been taken for the Smithsonian publications ; they are therefore free to be used by the compilers of books, and in this way they are beginning to reach the general reader and to produce a beneficial effect on the public mind.
The system of meteorology under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, has, during the last year made good progress. And though the whole number of stations has not been much increased, yet the character of the instruments adopted, and consequently, the value of the observations, has been improved both in precision and variety.
This system is intended to embrace, as far as possible, the whole surface of North America, and to consist of three classes of observers. One class, without instruments, to record the changes in the aspect of the sky, the diveation of the wind, the beginning and “ending of rain, the appearance of the Aurora, &c. Anéther, in addition to fick foregoing, to give an account of the changes of temperature, as indicated by the thermometer. A third class, furnished with full sets of instruments, to record all changes deemed important in the study of meteorology.
To carry on this system, the Institution has received or expects to receive assistance from the following sources:
1. From the sinall appropriation made by Congress, to be expended under the direction of the Navy Department.
2. From the appropriations made by different States of the Union.
3. From the observations made under the direction of the Medical Department of the United States Army.
4. From the Officers of Her Majesty’s service in different parts of the British possessions in North America.
5. From observations made by institutions and individuals, in different parts of the continent, who report immediately to the Smithsonian Institution.
A small appropriation ks been made by Congress for two years past, to be expended under the direction of the Navy Department for meteorolo

<<<Page: 11>>>

rg 16
gical purposes; and Professor Espy, engaged under the act making this appropriation, has been directed to cooperate with the Institution, in promotion of the common object. Besides the aid which we have received from Professor Espy’s knowledge of this subject, the general system has been benefitted in the use of instruments purchased by the surplus of the appropriation, after paying the salary of the director and other expenses.
During the last year, Professor Espy has been engaged ina series of interesting and valuable experiments, on the variations of temperature, produced by a sudden change in the density of air. The results obtained are interesting in addition to science, and directly applicable to meteorology. ‘The experiments were made in one of the rooms of the Smithsonian Institution, and with articles of apparatus belonging to the collection which constituted the liberal donation of Dr. Hare of Philadelphia. An account of these investigations will be given to the Secretary of the Navy in a report.
It was mentioned in the last report that the Regents of the University of the State of New York, in 1849, made a liberal appropriation of funds for the re-organization of the meteorological system of observations, established im 1825, and that Dr. T. Romeyn Beck, and the Hon. Guan Hawley, to whom the enterprise was entrusted, had adopted the forms and the instruments, prepared under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Another appropriation has been made for 1850, and the system has been carried, during the past year, into successful operation by Professor Guyot, late of Neuchatel, in Switzerland. This gentleman, who has established a wide reputation as a meteorological observer, by his labors in his own country, was recommended to Dr. “Beck and Mr. Hawley, by this Institution, and employed by them to superintend the fitting up of the instruments in their places, to instruct the observers in the minute details of their duty, and to determine the topographical character and elevation above the sea, of each station.
The whole number of stations which have been established in the State of New York is thirty-eight, including those which have been furnished with instruments by the Smithsonian Institution, and the Adirondack station by the liberality of Archibald McIntyre, Esq., of Albany. This number gives one station to twelve hundred and Be enty square miles, or about one in each square of thirty-five and a half miles on aside. These stations are at very different heights above the level of the sea. They were selected in conference with Dr. Beck, Professor Guyot and myself. ‘The state is naturally divided into the following topographical regions, namely : a The Southern or Maritime region.
. The Eastern, or region of the Highlands and Catskill mountains, with
the valleys of the Hudson and Mohawk rivers.
3. The Northern or region of the Adirondack mountains, isolated by the deep valleys of the Mohawk, Lake Champlain, the St. Lawrenee and Lake Ontario.
4. The Western, or region of the western plateau, with the small lakes and sources of the rivers.
5. The region of the great lakes, Erie and Ontario.
I regret to state that no efficient steps have as yet been taken to organize the system of Massachusetts, for which an appropriation was made by the legislature, at its last session. I haye lately written to Go

<<<Page: 12>>>

17 fy, el
vernor Briggs, urging immediate action, and offering, on the part of the Institution, to render any assistance in our power, towards furthering so laudable an enterprise. No answer has yet been received.*
The observations made at the different military stations, under the direction of the Medical Department of the United States Army, have been partially re-organized, and a number of new stations, and several of the old ones furnished with improved Smithsonian instruments. ‘The head of the Medical Department of the Army, Dr. Lawson, has assigned the general direction of the system of observations to Dr. Mower of New York, to whom we are indebted for the valuable aid which this extended set of observations will furnish the general system. ‘The immediate superintendence of the reduction of these observations is in charge of Dr. Wotherspoon, to whose zeal and scientific abilities, the cause of meteorology bids fair to be much indebted.
The most important service the Smithsonian Institution has rendered to meteorology during the past year, has been the general introduction into the country, of a more accurate set of instruments at a reasonable price. The set consists of a barometer, thermometer, hydrometer, wind-vane, and snow and rain guage.
The barometer is made by James Green, No. 422 Broadway, New York, under the direction of the Institution. It has a glass cistern with an adjustable bottom enclosed in a brass cylinder. The barometer tube is also enclosed in a brass cylinder, which carries the vermier. ‘The whole is suspended freely, from a ring at the top, so as to adjust itself to the vertical position. The bulb of the attached thermometer is enclosed in a brass envelope communicating with the interior of the brass tube, so as to be in the same condition with the mercury, and to indicate truly its temperature. Each instrument made according to this pattern, is numbered and accurately compared with a standard. In the comparisons made by Professor Guyot, a standard Fortin barometer, by Ernst, of Paris, was employed; also a standard English barometer, by Newman, of London, belonging to this Institution. These instruments, for greater certainty, have been compared with the standard of the Cambridge Observatory, and of Columbia College, both by Newman; also with the standard of the Observatory of Toronto, Upper Canada.
The results of these examinations prove the barometers made by Mr. Green, according to the plan adopted by the Smithsonian Institution, to be trustworthy instruments.
The thermometers are by the same maker, and those intended for the State of New York, were compared with a standard by Bunten of Paris, and with another by Troughton & Simms of London. Those found to differ more than a given quantity, from the standards were rejected.
The instruments for detecting the variation of the hygrometrical condition of the atmosphere, consist of two thermometers, of the same dimensions, accurately graduated. ‘The bulb of one of these is enveloped ina covering of muslin and moistened with water, and that of the other is naked.
The rain and snow gauges, and also the wind vanes, are made under the direction of the Institution, by Messrs. Pike & Son, 166 Broadway, New York. The rain gauge is an inverted cone of sheet zinc, of which the area
*A letter has since been received and the system placed under the direction of this Institution,
Mis—2

<<<Page: 13>>>

ay 18
of the base is exactly one hundred square inches. This cone or funnel! terminates in a tube which carries the water into a receiving vessel. ‘The water which has fallen is measured by pouring it from the gauge into a cylinder, so graduated as to indicate hundreths of inches. A smaller cylinder is also provided, which gives thousanths of inches, and may serve, in cases of accident, as a substitute for the larger cylinder. Therain gauge is placed in a cask sunk in the earth, with its mouth near the level of the ground.
The snow gauge is a cylinder of zinc of the same diameter as the mouth of the rain gauge. ‘The measurement is made by pressing its mouth downwards to the bottom of the snow, where it has fallen on a level surface, then carefully inverting it, retaining the snow, by passing under it a thin plate of metal. The snow is afterwards melted, and the water produced is measured in one of the graduated glass cylinders of the rain wauge.
The wind vane is a thin sheet of metal, (it might be of wood,) about three feet long, carefully balanced by a ball of lead, and attached on the top of a long wooden rod, which descends along the wall of the building to the sill of the window of the observer. It terminates in the centre of a fixed dial plate, and indicates in its movements the direction of the wind by a pointer attached to the rod.
The observer is by this arrangement enabled to determine the course of the wind, by looking down on the dial plate, through the glass of thewindow, without exposing himself to the storm.
Besides the full sets of instruments furnished by the State of New York, from the apprepriation of the Regents of the University, the Smithsonian Institution has furnished a number of sets, to important stations, and in order that they might be more widely disseminated, we have directed Mr. Green to dispose of sets, to individuals, at a reduced price, on condition that they will give us copies of the Fesults of their Observations; the remainder of the cost being paid by this Institution,. A number of persons have availed themselves of this privilege.
To accompany the instruments, and for the use of those who take part in the Smithsonian system of meteorological observations, a series of minute directions, prepared by Professor “Guy ot, has been printed by the Institution. It occupies forty octavo pages, with wood-cut representations of the instruments, and is accompanied by two lithographic engravings, to illustrate the different forms of clouds, and to facilitate their notations in the journals, in accordance with the nomenclature adopted by meteorologists. A set of tables has also been furnished for correcting the barometrical observations, on account of variation of t mper ature. A set of hygrometrical ta Bice. to be used with the wet and dry bulb thermometers, and a set, for the calculation of heights by the barometer, will be prepared.
We may also mention, in connection with this subject, that a series of preliminary experiments has been made, in the laboratory of this Institution, for the purpose of constructing from direct observation, a scale of boiling temperatures, corresponding to different degrees of rarefaction of the air. With a thermometer, each degree of which occupies one inch in length of the scale, the variations of the boiling point corresponding to a slight change in altitude, are found to be more perceptible than those in the length of the barometrical column.

<<<Page: 14>>>

19 an
A series of experiments has also been made, for testing the performance of the Aneroid barometer under extremes of atmospheric pressure. The instrument as usually constructed, has not been found, from these experiments, very reliable, though it may be improved, and thus serve as an indicator of minute atmospheric changes. I think, however, it will not answer for the determination of changes of atmospheric pressure, of considerable magnitude.
For the better comprehension of the relative position of the several places of observation, now embraced in our system of meteorology, an outline map of North America has been constructed, by Prof. Foreman. This map is intended also to be used for presenting the successive phases of the sky over the whole country, at different pomts of time, as far as ane to us, and we have been waiting for its completion, to commence
a series of investigations, with the materials now on hand, relative to the progress of storms.
A valuable collection of returns relative to the Aurora, has been received in accordance with the special instructions which we have issued for the observation of this interesting phenomenon. These are to be placed in the hands of Captain Lefroy, of the ‘Toronto observatory, and incorporated with a emi pe of a similar kind, which he has collected in the British possessions of North America. An account in full of the whole series will be presented by Captain Lefroy, to be published in the Smithsonian Centributions.
The meteorological correspondence is under the charge of Professor Foreman. ‘This is found not enly to involve considerable labor ‘in the way of receiving the regular returns and sending the required blanks and directions, but also in relation to the discussion of questions on almost every branch of science propounded to us by the meteorological observers, which we think it our duty in all cases, to treat with respect, and to answer to the best of our knowledge.
RESEARCHES, &c.
Explorations —T he programme of organization contemplates the institution of researches in Natural History, Geology, &c., and, though the state of the funds would permit of litt le being done in this ‘nae yet we have made a beginning. Besides the assistance rendered to the e: xploration of the botany of New Mexico, by the purchase of sets of plants from Mr. Wright and Mr. Fendler, as mentioned in my last report, a small sum was appropriated, to defray the cost of transportation of the articles which might be collected by Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, in the region of the Upper Missouri. This centleman, a graduate of the institutions at Princeton, had purposed to visit the remote regions above mentioned, for the benefit of his health, and was provided by Professor Baird, with minute directions as to the preservation of specimens and the objects which should particularly engage his attention. His journey was undertaken, and _executed, under. particularly favorable circumstances for exploration. He was accompanied by his brother, Mr. Alexander Culbertson, for many years connected with the American Fur Company, who was familiar with the whole country, and had himself sent valuable specimens of fossil
mammalians to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. Mr. Culbertson first visited an interesting locality called the Mauvaises

<<<Page: 15>>>

will be presented to the Institution in the form of a memoir for the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
Occultations for 1851.—For the purpose of facilitating the accurate determination of geographical points in the United States, a list of occultations and the ue-ordinates of reductions for the years 1848, 1849, and 1850, was prepared and published at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. Congress has since ordered the publication of an American Nautical Almanac, and as lists of occultations will form a part of this ephemeris, Mr. Preston, late Secretary of the Navy, directed that the expense of computing these tables for 1850, should be defrayed from the appropriation for the almanac, provided the printing and distribution were at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. The same course has been authorised by Mr. Graham, the present Secretary of the Navy.
Copies of these tables computed by John Downes, of Philadelphia, have been sent to all persons known to the Institution, who would probably make use of them in the way of improving our knowledge of the geography of this country. They have been furnished partic ularly to officers ef the United States Army, and other persons engaged in exploring our new possessions and determining their boundaries. All persons, to whom thesetables were presented, have been requested to send the result of their observations, made in connection with the use of them, to this Institution, or to publish them in some accessible journal.
Ephemeris of Neptune.—It was stated, in the last report, that the orbit of the planet Neptune, established by the researches of Mr. Walker, and comprised in his memoir published by the Institution, gives the data for calculating an ephemeris or tables of the daily position of this planet, rivaling in precision the tables for any of ihe older planets. Sets of these tables were computed and published for 1848 and 1849, at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, but those for 1850 and 1851, have been computed under the direction of Lieutenant Davis, superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, and at the expense of the appropriation under his charge, while the expense of printing the tables has been borne by this Institution.
These tables are corrected for the perturbing influence of the planets Jupiter , Saturn and Uranus, by deductions from mathematical investigations of Professor Peirce, of Harvard University. They have been used in following the motion ‘of Neptune, by all the principal astronomers of the world, and have every where received the highest commendation, reflecting honor on the Institution and on the science of the country.
The act of Congress authorizing the establishment of the Smithsonian Institution, contemplates the formation of a Museum of Natural History. It would not, however, be in accordance with the spirit of the organization, to expend the income in the reproduction of collections of objects which are to be found in every museum of the country. Natural History can be much more effectually promoted, by special collections ot new objects, by appropriations for original explorations and researches, and above all, by

<<<Page: 16>>>

ies. 29
. to) . . to the world, in a proper form, the labors of naturalists. In conformity
with these views, it has been resolved to confine the collections, principally, to objects of a special character, or to such as may lead to the discovery of new truths, or which may serve to verify or disprove existing or proposed scientific generalizations. A number of special collections, important in this point of view, are mentioned by Professor Agassiz, in the appendix to my last report, and, for a more enlarged statement relating to the same subject, I would refer attention to the accompanying report by Professor Baird, to whom the charge of the collections of Natural History has been confided.
A considerable number of specimens in mineralogy, geology and botany, had been received, previous to Professor Baird’s connection with the Institution, and, since he has entered upon his duty, a large addition has been made to the stock, by the deposit of his own cabinet, and by dona~ tions from various sources.
The collection is principally rich in undescribed species of fishes and reptiles, and especial care will be taken, by Professor Baird, to enhance its value, by procuring, in all cases, as far as practicable, such specimens as help to solve questions of scientific interest. The collection has been arranged in one of the rooms of the basement story, so as to be accessible to the student in this branch of science, and has already done service in this way, by furnishing the facts given in one of the memoirs of the Smithsonian Contributions. Though letters are constantly received requesting the Institution to purchase collections of plants, minerals and other objects of natural history, yet we have declined, in all cases, to avail ourselves of opportunities of this kind to increase the cabinet. Experience has, thus far, shown that specimens of all kinds will accumulate, from donations and exchange, as rapidly as they can be accommodated with room, and properly arranged.
I have given, in my last report, the reasons why it is not thought advisable on the part of the Institution, to accept the gift proffered by Congress, of the great Museum of the Exploring Expedition, and I have no reason to change my opinion on that point.
For a detailed account of the specimens forming the Smithsonian collection, I refer to Professor Baird’s report, herewith submitted.
assistance in the preparation of the necessary drawings, and by presenting
During the past year, we have received information of the loeality of a number of mounds, and other remains of ancient art, in different parts of the United States. A gentleman is now engaged in the examination of the mounds of Western Virginia, with the intention of presenting the results of his labors, for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
The survey of the mineral land in the vicinity of Lake Superior, has disclosed the site of an ancient copper mine, whence, in all probability, the copper of the metal ornaments, instruments, &c., found in the mounds was derived. The remains of the implements and of the ore, as left by the ancient miners, are exhibited in place, and afford an interesting illustration of the state of arts among the mound builders. The geological surveyors have promised to make accurate measurements, and drawings of

<<<Page: 17>>>

23 mr
everything of interest connected with these works, and to present them, with suitable descriptions, to the Institution, for publication.
Mr. E. G. Squier, during his sojourn in Central America, as Charge d’ Affaires of the United States, made some interesting explorations relative to the antiquities of that country, and has sent to this Institution five large stone idols and several Lnallee objects, as the beginning of an Ethnological } Museum. For the cost of shipment and transportation of the three larger of those idols by way of Cape Horn, the Institution is indebted to the liberality of B. Blanco, Esq., of New Y ork.
. For some remarks relative to the importance of forming an Ethnologieal museum, I beg to refer to a paper by Mr. Squier, given in the appendix to this report.
It is a part of the plan of the Institution, to appropriate a small portion of the funds, to the purchase of sets of instruments of physical research, to be used by the officers of the Institution, and under certain restrictions, by other persons. In accordance with this purpose, I was requested, by the Board of Regents, to procure an astronomical cit ‘k, with the electro magnetic registering apparatus, to be lent to Lieutenant Gillis during the continuance of his astronomical labors in Chili. The clock has been imported from Germany, and is now in the hands of the instrument maker, to receive the registering attachments. The whole will be sent to Chih, as soon as the apparatus is completed. I regret that the difficulty of procuring the services of suitable workmen has delayed, so long, the completion of these instruments.
A communication from Lieutenant Gillis, informs us that the Chilian Government has resolved to establish a permanent ‘national observatory at Santiago, and that it will purchase t the instruments above mentioned. The Institution will therefore again, as in the case mentioned in a former report, of the purchase of a telescope, for the same expedition, be the means of promoting science, without an expenditure of its income.
The apparatus for determining the elements of terrestrial magnetism, mentioned in my last report, as having been lent to Colonel Emory, has been delivered to Colonel Graham, to be used on the Mexican boundary survey. ‘To replace these, the Institution has received permission to order another set, from London, at the expense of the government, and thus, by an addition to the number of instruments of this kind, the means of promoting the seience of terrestrial magnetism, in this country , will be increased.
The purchase of standard meteorological apparatus, and also the instruments which have been distributed to different important stations, throughout the country, is a part of the same plan.
During the past year a considerable portion of the apparatus constituting the ‘liberal donation of Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia, has been repaired and fitted up; and it is hoped, during ‘the present season, to complete the repairs of the remainder, and to place the whole ina proper position for exhibition and use.
It has been stated, that the programme of organization is intended te

<<<Page: 18>>>

(‘ay 24
harmonize the several requisitions of Congress, and the resolutions of the Board of Regents, with a system of active operations, the influence of which shall be as widely extended as practicable. ‘Though almost every one will admit the value of libraries, and the importance of collecting in this country as great a variety of books as possible, yet it may well be doubted whether the accumulation of a large number of books, which are to be found in almost every library of the country, is, in the present state of the funds, to be expected or aimed at. It is believed that a portion of the income devoted to the library, may be more efficiently expended in the promotion of the same ends by other means, and hence, it was resolved to make special collections of books; particularly to procure such as are not in the country, and also, in order to render more available those which are now in our libraries, to prepare, as far as practicable, a general catalogue of all the books they contain.
‘In accordance with these view s, Professor Jewett has devised a plan of
facilitating the publication of catalogues of libraries, which bids fair to be of much importance to the literature of the country. This plan has been submitted for examination to a commission of gentlemen well acquainted with the subject, and has received from them a very favorable report recommending its adoption. 28
To the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution :
Sir:—With the close of the year, it again becomes my duty to present to you my annual report upon the affairs of the Library.
The rate of increase is still slow. We cannot expect it to be rapid, until after the appropriation of the full income of the Institution to its permanent objects.
The following table exhibits the number of books and other articles added to the Library since my last report, with the sources from which they have been received.
wu ipa.
n an zz al ~
| a Pinel ig Po kao ne ere a a lal ae eh 3 E Ep 83) Sis yee = ° os =) aaa ro s i) fea) o <3 | ie) isa Inurchasest t=") e) serine ey en 502 9 2 | bills Donations and Exchanges, 470 624 1 3 1,098 452 35 8 12 455 24 936
9 17 455 24 | 2,597
Copyrights, +) = = == =. |
1,424 668
Adding these to the numbers previously reported, we obtain the following statement of the present size of the collections.
nm 7 ~
5 | = to Grays : ra ie eS che 6 uv “ = bb ce “a z ge s cS) a S S S pe =| ra) feo) | a ia = = QA 2) a Purchases, | 2,818 34 | 1,335 2 | 4.189 Donations, 627 1 1,319. 48 27 30 2.051 Copyrights, | 1,339 70 9 32 561 46 | 2,057 Deposits, 873 873 ae 1,423 11,3992 | 61 | 561 | 30| 46 |9,170
These numbers are, it is true, small in comparison with the demands of the community, and with our own hopes and prospects. But it must be borne in mind that the Institution is as yet in but partial operation; that the funds are still, in a great degree, devoted to the buildmg; and that the systematic collection of a Library has hardly been commenced.
The books which have been bought, are for the most part such as were of immediate necessity. The lists which accompany this report, in connection with those previously transmitted, will show the composition of the Library. Though not complete in any department, this collection yossesses from the outset, a decided and peculiar character. The list of foe received by donation and exchange contains the titles of the latest publications of many of the learned societies of Europe, with complete

<<<Page: 19>>>

29 fit]
sets of some of them. It will be an object of the first care, to complete this department. The use which has already been made of those which we possess, and the frequent calls for others, fully demonstrate that the plan of collecting here entire series of the transactions of all foreign academies, and of the ablest scientific journals of every nation, was wisely formed to meet a real and wide-felt want.
The collection of engravings and works upon the history of art, has attracted much interest; not from undiscriminating: idlers, but from: men of taste, and particularly from artists. ‘This collection, though not the largest in the country, is believed to be the choicest. It was made by an American gentleman, distinguished as a scholar no less than as a statesman, with the special design of illustrating the progress and resources 2 the art of engraving in all its branches, from its early masters to th present time. It was the work of many years to gather specimens, so rare and beautiful. It required an educated eyeya “cultivated taste, an earnest study of the history of art, much diligent search, and the aia of many friends and correspondents, to bring together so many of the most valuable prints which have ever been executed. ‘The acquisition of this collection has saved to the Institution all ex xpenditure, either of time or money, for skill and labor thus bestowed. ‘The saving of money cannot but seem important to any one who weighs our means against our wants, and the gain in time gives a longer period of public benefits.
This collection contains some of the best works of nearly every engraver of much celebrity. There is one portfolio of the works of Albert Durer, containing twenty engravings on copper and two on iron; by his own hand s—and among them, most of his best and rarest works; about sixty fine copies on copper, including the famous seventeen by Mare Antonio; thirteen different portraits of Durer, and a large number of wood cuts engraved by him or under his inspection. Another porttolio contains a large collection of the rem of Rembrandt, including some of his most beautiful pieces, particularly the “Christ Healing the Sick, ii an early and fine ie Se There is a portfolio of two “hundred engravings and etchings, by Claude Lorraine, Hollar, and Bega; a portfoh 0) of superb portraits by Nantewul, Wille, Edelink, and others, among them, a first impression of the ‘Louis XIV in armor,’’? by Nanteuil; a portfolio of prints from the old Italian masters, comprising many that are extremely rare; and another from the old German masters, containing about one hundred prints, many of them scarce and of great beauty. There are besides, five portfolios of sheet engravings, including very choice prints. Among them are thirty-one w hich are ‘valued by Longhi, at fifteen hundred dollars.
Among the galleries and published collections, are the ‘‘ Musée Royal, ’ in two volumes folio, proofs before the letter, a superb copy ; Denon’s  Monumens des Arts du Dessin,”’ in four volumes folio, of which only two hundred and fifty copies were published; Baillie’s Works, one hundred plates, folio; Thorwaldsen’s Works, four volumes, folio ; Hogarth’s Works, folio, and the German edition in quarto ; ‘The Boydell Gallery, two volumes, folio; Boydell’s ‘ Shakspeare Gallery,” a remarkably good copy, containing many proofs before the letter, numerous etchings: and several progressive plates; Claude’s “Liber Veritatis, ” an original copy, three volumes, folio; The Houghton Gallery, two volumes, folio; Chamberlain’s Drawings in the Royal Collection, one volume, folio; Rem

<<<Page: 20>>>

mulation. They are additional objects of attention and they neither exclude nor interfere with the principal object. During the first years of the Library, while the money is wanting for extensive purchases, these plans receive a larger redative share of attention than may permanently be given to them; though it is hoped that they will actually continue to increase in extent as in importance,’
One of these means of usefulness, was the gathering of statistical and historical notices of public lbraries in the Wanted States. This occupied a portion of my time during the year 1849. The results of my labors were presented in the appendix to my last report, which has not yet been printed. Inestablishing a central bibhographical bureau, it was of primary importance to survey the field in order to learn the number, condition, and prospects of existing libraries, and to establish with them, relations indispensable to success in any general system of operations.
The formation of the General Catalogue of American Libraries has been another prominent object of my attention, As most of our public libraries possess printed catalogues, it is possible to form one central catalogue, by combining the titles of these, in one alphabetical arrangement. The value of such a work would be, in a measure, limited to. this spot. The only way in which it could be extended further, would be by correspondence. Even thus limited, the scheme is very promising. It is manifest, however, that its benefits would be vastly increased, if copies of the catalogue could be multiplied. The catalogues of the different libraries were, however, foie on plans so various, and in most cases, so faulty, that it was unadvisable to print any catalogue formed from them.
In order to realize from a_ general catalog ue all of the vast advantages which it seems to promise, it is necessary t that the catalogues of all the libraries of which it is composed, should be prepared with ‘uniformity and accuracy ; and in order to secure the co-operation necessary to the construction of catalogues in this manner, some plan must be devised, which would not increase, but if possible, diminish the present cost to each library of making and printing its catalogue.
I had the honor, sometime since, to present, through yourself to the Board of Regents, the outline of a plan which promises ‘to secure these ends and others of not less importance. This plan was referred to a commission of librarians and literary men of the highest standing, for their examination.
The favorable report of this commission, after the laborious and conscientious attention which they gave the matter, leads me to hope, that the project will be carried immediately and vigorously jnto execution.
It would not be possible for me, within the customary limits of a report like this to present all the det (ile of a scheme so extensive; yet it Is proper that [ should dwell somewhat at length upon the exigencies in which it originated; its principal features:; its practicability:; and the benefits which it promises tg our public libraries and to the cause of knowledge.
We can but glance at the nature and extent of the difficulties, which have hitherto been encountered, in attempting to furnish suitable printed catalogues of growing libraries, and which have led, or are leading, to

<<<Page: 21>>>

33 [+ i)
a common abandonment of the hope of affording guides so important to the literary accumulations of the larger libraries of “Europe.
It is, of course, entirely practicable ‘0 publish a complete and
satisfactory catalogue of a library which 1s stationary. But most public libraries are constant! ly and rap idly increasing. This circumstance, so gratifying on every other account, is the cause of the difficulties to w hich T have alluded.
While the catalogue of such a collection is passing through the press, new books are received, the titles of which, it is impossible, in the ordinary manner of printing, to incorporate with the body of the work. Recourse must then be had to a supplement. In no other way, can the acquisitions of the library be made ja to the public. If, as in oe library of Congress, the number of supplements be 1 sige sed to nine, the student m: Ly he obliged to grope his weary way through ten catalogues, instead of one, in order to ascertain whether any book which he seeks is in the library. He cannot be certain, even then, that the book is not in the collection, for it may have been received since the last appendix was printed. Supplements soon become intolerable. The whole catalogue must then be rearranged and re-printe ed. The expense of this process may be borne, so long as the library is small; but it soon becomes burdensome, and ere long insu ipportabl Seven va national establishments.
There is but one course left—not to print at all. To this no scholar consents, except from necessity.
But to this alternative, grievous as it is, nearly all the large libraries of Europe have been reluct antly driven. More than a century has passed since the printing of the catalogue of the Royal Library at Paris was commenced. It is not yet finished. ~ No one feels in it the interest which he would, if he could hope to have it kept up complete, if once it were brought up to a given date.
Dr. Pertz, Chief Librarian of the Royal Lil rary of Berlin, declares that to print the catalogue of a lar: ge library, which is constantly increasing, is to throw away money. Tis opi nion is founded upon the supposed impossibility of keeping up the catalogue, so as continually to represent the actual possessions of ‘the library.
The first volume of the new catalogue of printed books in the British Museum was published in ist ). Itisa folio of four hundred and fiftyseven pages, and contains all the titles, under the letter A, of books in the library at the end of the year 1838. Mr. Panizzi, from the first, strongly opposed the atlerk of any part of the lepton before the whole, up to the prescribed limit (1838 ») should be comp! eted in mi inuscript. ‘Time has shown the justness of his views. The co: nmissioners lately laa by the Queen to inguire into the constitution and management ‘of the } Museum, have, in their report, expressed an opinion decidedly against the printing of the catalogue at all, and principally on the round ‘that it mist ever remain impertect.
One of the witnesses, (the Right Honorable J. W. Croker,) examined before the commissioners, thus strongly states the case with respect to printing :
“You receive, I suppose, into your library every year some twenty thousand volumes, or something like that. Why, if you had a printed catalogue dropped down from Heaven to you at this moment perfect, this
day twelve-month your twenty thousand interlineations would spoil the Mis—3

<<<Page: 22>>>

[a 34
simplicity of that catalogue ; again the next year twenty thousand more ; and the next year twenty thousand more; so that at the end of four or five years, you would have your catalogue just in the condition that your new catalogue is now (the manuscript “part greater than the printed part.) With that new catalogue before your eyes, [ am astonished there should be any discussion about it, for there is the experiment; the experiment has been made and failed.”
Not one European library of the first class, has a complete printed catalogue 1 in a single work. The Bodleian library issued, in 1845, a catalogue in three large “volumes folio, which is generally but erroneously supposed to contain the titles of all books in the collection; but all books of which special catalogues had previously been published, are omitted in it. For a complete catalogue of the Bodleian library, it is necessary to procure, not only the three volumes folio printed in 1845, but also four-other volumes, containing the catalogues of collections belonging to the library. ‘Therefore, one may be obliged to search five catalocues, before he can ascertain whe ther any particular book were in that library up to the end of the year 1834.
The catalogue of 1845 is only brought down to 1835. None, therefore, of the literature of the last fifteen years, and none of the acquisitions ot the library during that period, are contained in it. A supplement. is in ee or perhaps already published, which contains the additions to the library from 1835 to 1847. When this is published, it will be possible to ascertain whether any given book was or was notin the library at the close of the year 1847 ; but it may be necessary to search six catalogues for the purpose.
In view of these facts, it is not surprising that the commissioners upon the British Museum s hould come to: the opinion, that it is unwise to print the catalogue of that library, and should advise that nothing more be attempted than to prepare and keep up a manuscript catalogue. :
But, in this opinion the English public, who look to the end without considering the difficulties of ARs way, do not seem cordially to acquiesce ; and it will perhaps be found necessary to print, even at the estimated cost of £40,000 sterling, and with the certainty that, almost as soon as the
catalogue comes from the press, the republication of it will be as loudly demanded.
This is surely, a disheartening state of things. It applies with equal force to catalog ues of all forms: alphabetical, chronologic al, and classed. tt has been felt and lamented by every one who has had the care of an increasing library.
In seeking a remedy for this evil, the idea occurred to me several years ago, to stereotype the titles separately, and to preserve the plates or blocks in alphabetical order of the titles; so as to be able readily to insert additional titles in their proper places, and then to reprint the whole catalogue. By these means, the chief cost of republication — that of eomposition, together with the trouble of revision and correction of the press, would, except for the new titles, be avoided. The great difficulty which had so long oppressed and discouraged li librarians, and inyolved libraries in expenses so enormous, would thus be overcome.
This idea which had occurred to me before my appointment as librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, assumed, in my mind, new importance ip

<<<Page: 23>>>

35 pee |
connection with the plan of forming a general catalogue of American libraries.
My action in the matter was checked by the discouraging opinions of several stereotypers, whom I consulted. I did not indeed believe the difficulties, which they suggested, to be insuperable ; but I was so situated that it was impossible for me at once, to institute the experiments necessary to show the practicability of stereotyping titles separately.
In the meantime the librarian and directors of the American Antiquarian society, having heard ef the plan, opened a correspondence with me on the subject, with a view of employing it in the republication of their own catalogue. The energetic aid and ingenious suggestions of one of the directors, the Rev. Edward E. Hale, of Worcester, gave a new impulse to the scheme, and induced me to propose its adoption by the Smithsonian Institution sooner than I had anticipated.
The suggestions of Mr. Hale were seconded by the practical skill of Mr. Wilcox, an ingenious electrotypist of Boston, who made the electrotyped page of separate movable titles, which I have already submitted to your inspection. It isa beautiful piece of work. It demonstrated to the conviction of the most incredulous, the practicability of this method of printing catalogues.
After the plan had been made public by a paper, which I presented in August last, to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Mr. John K. Rogers, agent of the Boston type and stereotype foundry, devised a method of accomplishing the purpose by means of the cammon process of stereotyping. He caused a page to be made for exhibition at
the Mechanics’ fair in Boston. He has since been at the expense of another page, very handsomely executed and with several improvements, which I have now the pleasure of submitting to your examination. This page
establishes the applicability of the common stereotype process to our
purpose. The company which Mr. Rogers represents, is ready to enter
into a contract to do the work, at a very small advance upon the usual
price of stereotyping. Whatever the result may be, our thanks are due to
Mr. Rogers for his intelligent and liberal ef forts.
Meanwhile my attention was directed to a new process of ster reotyping, which promises to form an era in the art. A gentleman from Indiana, Mr. Josiah Warren is the inventor. The material which he uses for stereotyping costs not more than three cents an octavo page. ‘The process is so simple, that any man of average inget 1uity could learn to practice it successfully by two or three days instruction. The cost of apparatus for.
carrying on the work is very small. The rapidity of execution is such, that one man can produce at least twenty-five octavo pages a day, all finished and ready for use. The plates give a beautiful impression. They seem as durable as common stereotype plates, and so far as now known, they are not in any great degree more liable to injury.
If this invention bears successfully the severe tests of practical men, it will have been brought forward at a most favorable period for this project. It will be seen, by the specimens which I herewith present, that it offers extraordinary facilities for the kind of work which we require, and it will reduce the expense very greatly.
This preliminary point of the practicability of stereotyping by titles, may therefore be considered as established. That it can be done by the electrotype process, as well as by the ordinary mode of stereotyping, is

<<<Page: 24>>>

oe 36
placed beyond dispute. It seems equally certain that it can be done by Mr. Warren’s method. The choice among these three ways must be determined by their comparative economy, convenience, and elegance. We have not yet had the opportunity to bring this point to a final decision. It is certain, however, that the work can be done. I proceed, therefore, to state the proposed manner of applying this plan to the printing of catalogues of particular libraries, and to the formation of a general catalogue of
to) all the libraries im this eountr yItis as follows:
1. The Smithsonian Institation to publish Rules for the preparation of Catalogues.
2. To request other Tnstitations sntending to pablish catalogues of their books to prepare them according to these rules, with a view to their being stereotyped under the direction of the Smithsonian Mustitution.
3. The Smithsonian Institution to pay the whole evirya expense of stereotyping. or such part thereof as may be agreed on,
4. The stereotyped titles to remain the property of the Smithsonian Tustitution.
5, Every Library uniting in this plan, to have the right of using all the titles in the possession of the Enstitution, as often us desired for the printing of its own catalogue; by the Simithso-
nian Tnstitntion paying only the expense of making up the pages, of the press work, and of distributing, the titles to their proper places.
6. The Smithsonian Institution to publish, as soon as possible, and at stated intervals, General Catalogues of all Libraries coming into this system.
It is believed there is nothing impracticable in any part of this plan, provided that the benefits to be “derived from it, be such as to secure the co-operation of the various libraries in the country. To these benefits, therefore, it is nece essary tO direct particular attention.
And first, let us consider its advantages in an economical point of view to the first institution adopting it.
We will suppose, for example, that the American Antiquarian Society proposes to publish a new catalogue of its library. This institution printed, in 1857, a handsome and valuable catalogue, in five hundred and sixty two ee Svo. pages, mn fine type. The composition cost, we will suppose, one dollar a page. This must all now be reprinted, in order to add the titles of books recerved since 1857, the number of which is almost equal to that of the former catalogue. if a new catalogue be now printed, in ten or twelve years it will be necessary to reprint the whole, and this process will go on, till the expense of reprinting will be quite appalling. Now had the titles of the orignial catalogue been stereotyped, the catalogue, instead of costing for the composition 500 dollars. might have cost, for ‘composition and ste sreotyping, 750 dollars, counting the extra cost of stereotyping in titles 50 per cent. above that of the composition.”
But the necessity of re-composing the first part would no longer exist. Five hundred dollars would therefore be saved in the first reprint, whilst the extra expense of stereotyping was only two hundred and fifty dollars, Thus the net gain would be two hundred and fifty dollars, minus the cost of newly making up and imposing the old matter, wi hich would “be very inconsiderable. But there would be still further gains. It would not be thought necessary to print so large editions, if the work could be reproduced at a trifling expense. The re-arrangement, too, passes from the
*f{am unable to state what would be the exact cost of stereotyping or electrotyping by tities. Tassume 50 percent. extra, as a convenient rate for caleulation, though if Mr. Warreu’s plan succeed, it can be done for much less.

<<<Page: 25>>>

on [e )
hands of the librarian to those of the printer; and the proof-reading has been done, once for all.
The time for applying this system to the first edition is indeed past, but the same reasoning, at the present moment, applies to the second. If the whole be now stereotyped, and two hundred copies struck off, the accessions for the first year may be stereotyped and printed separately, and in the second or third year, a new catalogue may be issued, with the additions incorporated. In the mean time, it is probable, that Inany of the supplementary titles would have been stereotyped for other libraries,
and, thus, the cost of writing them out and of ste es them, be spared to the Antiquarian Society. If the cost of composition for the catalogue about to be published (containing thirty thousand titles or more,) be stated at one thousand dollars, for an additional sum of five hundred dollars the necessity of recomposing would be forever obviated, and the great advantage secured of being able to print every two or three years, at small expense, new editions, each complete to the time of its public ation.
It is thus, I think, demonstrable, that even for the use cf a single library, this plan would be economical.
Let us next consider the advantages which the second Library, adopting the plan, may hope from it, in an economical point of view.
We will suppose, for ite sake of example, that after the catalogue of the Antiquarian Society’s Library has haan stereotyped, and the titles placed under the care of the Smithsonian Institution, it is proposed to issue a new edition of the catalogue of the Library of Congress. What inducements would there be for adopting this plan?
It has been the practice in this Library {o print a new sat he cf the catalogue every ten years, and to issue annual supplements. About onefifth of the cat talogue has been printed five times; two-fifths four times, &c. Now, from what ‘has already been said, it will he manifest how great the saving would bave been had this plan been known and followed from the first, even if the first cost of stereotyping by titles had been twice or three times that of ordinary pene and consequently how great the prospective advantage of adopting the plan, even independently of any general system.
But presume not less than fifteen thousand would be identical with the same number of the Antiquarian Library. At this rate, more than one-fifth of the labor and cost of preparation would be saved by the use of titles prepared and stereotyped by others, over and above the savings already enumerated.

<<<Page: 26>>>

ay 38
After the stereotyping of the Antiquarian Library, and the Library of Congress, we should have perhaps eighty-five thousand stereotyped titles. Of course the third institution adopting the plan would be likely to find a very large number of its titles identical with those already stereotyped: The amount saved by the use of titles already stereotyped would soon, (perhaps in the third Library) be sufficient to counterbalance the extra expenditure for stereotyping for that Library. At any rate, the extra expense would be a quantity constantly and rapidly diminishing, and it would soon (certainly after the fourth or fifth large Library) vanish entirely. ‘The Smithsonian Institution would not therefore be required to assume the charge of an enterprise which might involve it m great and increasing expense, but rather, and solely, to help put m operation, and to guide a system which will almost immediately pay its own way, and “will soon Save enormous sums of money to our public libraries.
That the aggregate economy of this plan would be very great, may be seen from the ‘followi ing statement:
We have in our library fifteen thousand pages, mostly in octavo, of catalogues of public libraries in the United States. These contain at least four hundred and fifty thousand titles. But according to the best estimate which I can make from a comparison of these catalogues, there are among them, not more than one hundred and fifty thousand | differ ent titles. Two-thirds then of the whole cost of printing the catalogues the first time, might have been saved by assuming the extra expers2 of stereoty ping the remaining third.
I have put thus prominently forward the economy to be expected from the proposed enterprise, not because this, in my estimation, is the most powerful argument in favor of it; nor because I should entirely despair of its adoption were it not advantageous m a pecuniary point of view; but because, even if there were no other reasons for it, (provided there were none against it,) the fact of its great economy would be decisive ; and because in the present poverty of our institutions of learning, and in the vast number of plans for the extension of their usefulness, which present themselves for consideration, and claim approval, this might stand a much smaller chance of success if it rested entirely wpon other grounds than the saving of money.
Having now, however, shown its economy when employed by a single Library, ‘and fe great economy in connection with a general sy stem, qT proceed to suggest a few, among the many benefits “to the cause of Knowledge, w hich this plan promises, if generally adoped.
It can hardly be necsssary for me to dwell at length upon the benefits to be expected from a general printed catalogue of all books in the public Libraries of America. By means of it, every student in America would have the means of knowing the full extent of his resources for investigation. The places where the book could be found, would be indicated in the catalogue. A correspondence would be kept up between this Institution and every other library in the country. A system of exchange and of general loans might, with certain stringent conditions, be established, so that all the literary treasures of the country would: be measurably accessible to every scholar. When the loan of a book would be impossible, extracts could be copied, quotations verified, and researches made, through the intervention of this Institution, which would in many eases be nearly as valuable to the student as the personal examination of the
book.

<<<Page: 27>>>

39 et
In connection with this topic IT would add: By law, a copy of every hook for which a copyright shall be secured in this country is required to be delivered to the Smithsonian Institution, and to be preserved therein. It is hoped that additional legislation on ins subject, will, while it lightens the burdens of publishers, secure the observance of this law, with respect to the Smithsonian Institution, in all cases. If then, the books thus obtained be all preserved, they will constitute the complete monumental history of American literature, during the existence of the law. It is useless to enlarge upon the value of such a collection. P
If, now, a list of these publications, as they come into the library, should month by month be published in the St aan Bulletin, and the titles immediately stereotyped, the expense would be trifling of publishing every year a catalogue of the books copyrighted in America during the year, and to print every five years, a general catalogue of American publications up to that limit. Thus, the monthly bulletins, the annual lists, and the quinguennial catalogues would farnosh full ne satisfactory records of American publications.
Again, this general catalogue would enable purchasers of books for public iecanies: ‘to consult, judiciously, for the wants of the country. So poor are we in the books which scholars need ; sO long, at best, must we remain in a condition of provincial dependence in literary matters; that < responsibility to the whole country rests upon the man who selects the books for any public library.
Another important benefit of this system is that it allows us to vary the form of the catalogue, at will, from the alphabetical, to the classed, and to modify the classification as we please. The titles, separately stereotyped, may change their order at command. If, for example, it were required to print a separate list of all books in the country on the subject of meteorology, it would be necessary merely to check off in the general catalogue the titles to be used, and to hand it to the printer to do the rest of the work.
Another great benefit of this project would be to secure uniformity in catalogues. <A good degree of uniformity would be absolutely indispensable to the success of the plan. Entire uniformity is not indeed to be expected. Perfection is not an attribute of the works of man. But a much higher degree of uniformity would result from this plan, than could otherwise be ho ped for. The rules for cataloguing inust be stringent, and should meet as far as possible all difficulties of detail. Noth hing, so far as can be avoided, should be left to the individual taste or judgment of the cataloguer. He should be a man of sufficient learning, accuracy and fidelity, to apply the rules. In cases of doubt, reference should be made to the central establishment to which the whole work should be submitted, page by page, for examination and revision. Thus we should have all our catalogues formed substantially on one plan. Now, even if the plan adopted were that of the worst of our catalogues, if all were on the same plan, this uniformity would render catalogues, thus made, far more useful than the present chaos of irregularities. But we hope that the best possible system may be adopted.
Another general consideration is that this project looks towards the accomplishment of that cherished dream of scholars, a universal catalogue. if the system should be successful in this country, it may eventually be $0 in every country of Europe. When all shall have adopted and carried

<<<Page: 28>>>

out the plan, each for itself, the aggregate of the general eatalogues thus formed — few in number— will embrace the whole body of literature extant, and from them, it will be no impossible task to digest and publish a universal bibliography. How much this would promote the progress of knowledge by showing, more distinctly, what has been attempted and accomp lished, and what ‘vet remains to be achieved, and by thus directing the outlay of intellect aright; how much, by rebuking the rashness which rushes into authorship, ignorant of what ‘other 's have written, and adding to the mass of books without adding to the sum of knowledge; how much by giving confidence to the true and heroic student, who “fears no labor so that it ‘bring him to the commanding height at w hich he aims — the summit of learning i in the branch to which he devotes himself; how much such a work w ould, in these and other ways, promote the great object we have in view, is well deserving the attention of every thoughtful mind. Upon it I may not at present longer dwell.
In America alone can this system be put into immediate se ation. In every large country in Europe the arrears in cataloguing, or the mass of ities accumulated in the libraries, would render the. first ear of the enterprise quite startling. But here all things conspire in our favor — our hibraries ‘are all sinall, and mostly repetitions one of another. But they are prosperous and will rapidly increase. ‘Their supporters are all de sirous of having printed catalogues. A central administration is necessary. This can be accepted by the Sinithsonian Institution, whose position is peculiarly fav orable, and whose funds are consecrated to such purposes. ‘The enterprise requires no, great outlay of money, no gigantic effort. It may go noiselessly, but rapic dly into operation. Ghia is nothing to prevent its immediate usefulness.
The coramissioners appointed to examine and report upon the project, considered not only its general features, but also its minute details. To them were submitted the rules proposed for cataloguing, which were separately discussed, and after having been variously. amended and modified, were recommended for adoption. ‘it is not supposed that this code prov ides forevery case that will occur. ‘The pecuharities of books are, like the idiosyncracies of authors, innumerable. ‘They bafi'e the best efforts at classification, except under general heads. The most elaborately formed laws for recording their titles would be inadequate to provide for entire uniformity or consistency. Doubts and difficulties would inevitably arise as to the application of the laws. These must, to prevent varying decisions, be submitted to one person. Hence it is important that the first part of the work, which will furnish examples for the rest, should be done under the immediate eye of the superintendent.
Easy as the operation may seem, to those who have never attempted it, there is no species of literary labor so difficult, or that requires knowledge so extensive and various, as the cataloguing of a large library. It demands peculiar qualifications of patience and accuracy 3 and 3 as special education —a professional training. ven those most expert must work slowly, if they would avoid mistakes. It is therefore a great consideration that, on this plan, each title, once prepared, is pr epared for all the libraries in which the book occurs; whereas, on any other, time and thought and labor are repeated for every copy of the book.
From the favor with which the plan has been met, it can hardly be doubted that it will receive the hearty and vigorous co-operation of all the libraries

<<<Page: 29>>>

41 ey
in the country. Several are ready to begin upon their catalogues at once. For the reasons already stated, however, it is desirable to begin here. At first the work ‘cannot proceed rapidly. ‘After the accumulation of a considerable number of titles, progress wall be much accelerated.
Great as this enterprise is, 1t will not require the outlay of much money on the part of the Smithsonian Institution to put it in operation, which being once done, it will take care of itself. It will not be a constant drain upon our funds; but on the contrary, it will ere long far more than repay in the facilities for making our own catalogues, all that may at first be expended upon it.
Respectfully submitted, CHARLES C. JEWETT.
December 31, 1850.
To Josrru Henry, LL. D., Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Sir:—TI beg Jeave to present to you a report of/cperations up to January 1, 1851, in the Departinent of Natural History assigned to my charge.
I commence with a list of the most important specimens of Natural History received at the Smithsonian Institution, p rior to January 1, 1851. The dates of reception have not been given, owing to the fact, that most had arrived before July 1, 1850, the period when iny official conneciion with the Institution Sorieiie ed. More detailed accounts of these objects will hereafter be furnished, as well as of those which may in future be received.
List of the Principal Accessions to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, made prior to January 1, 1851. Lient. Lyyen, U.S. N.; Sealed bottles containing Water from the Dead Sea—Cones of the
Cedar of Lebanon.
Miss D. L. Dix; Box of Minerals from North Carolina. Dr. F. B. Woven; Box of Minerals and Fossils from St. Lawrence county, New Yorke Mr. Guest; Box of Minerals from same locality.
Mr. Poixinnorn; Box of Tertiary fossils from North Carolina.
Dr. James Eicurs, Albany, New York; Box of Sands, Clays and Coneretions from the vicinity of the city of Albany, New York.
Dr. Witciam B. Sueru, Indiana; Silurian foss'ls from Indiana. Witriam Paiviirs, Esq., Augusta, Georgia; Box of Minerals from Georgia.
Oscar Freeman and Gitsert Taytor, Civil Engineers; Very large specimens of Crystallized

<<<Page: 30>>>

Par] 42
Calcareons Spar, coated with Quartz, found in tunnelling “St. Anthony’ s Nose,”’ Peekskill, New York.
Faxon D. Arnerron, Esq. ; Specimens of Native Silver from Chili.
Major B. Atvorn, Fort Gratiot, Michigan ; Keg containing Fishes from Lake Huron, caught in the vicinity of Fort Gratiot.
Col. J. f. Apert; Box of Minerals from Arkansas.
R. J. Pottarp, Washington City; Skeleton of Gazelle, (Antelope saiga Pall.) from Turkey. Tuomas Wuececey, Brest, Michigan; Cask of Unionidae and other Shells, from Lake Erie. Joun G. Penpereasr, Sacketts Harbor; Box of Minerals.
Dr. Janep P. Kirrrtanp, Cleveland, Ohio: jar of rare Salamanders.
Major J. HW. Carteron, Fort Leavenworth; Skull of Bighorn, (Ovis montana,)—Horns of Bighorn—Antlers of Black tailed De ver, (Cervus macrotis,)— Skull of NBIelOpe, (Antilope americana,) from Black Hills, Fort Laramie.
W. Pinceos, lowa; Craniaand other relics from various aboriginal mounds-——Paintings in oil on cloth, of various Mounds in the North West, by a wative Sioux Lndian.
Rozerr Howerr, Nichols, Tioga county, New York; Box of Minerals and Fossils from ‘Tioga county, New York.
The following Specimens have been received from Collectors who were assisted in their Explorations by the Smithsonian Institution.
Aveustus Frexpter; Collections of Plants made in the vicinity of Santa Fe, New Mexico, in 1846-47.
Cuarres Wricur; Plants collected in an expedition from Texas to E] Paso, in 1849.
Tuaporus CULBERTSON ; Skins, Skulls and Skeletons of Mammalia, from the Upper Missouri. Fossil vertebrate animals from White River. .
Many specimens brought back by Mr. Culbertson were presented, to the Institution thi ‘ough him, by members of the American Fur Company; among whom may be mentioned Messrs. Alexander Culbertson, Ferdinand Culbertson, Edward T. Denig, Schlagel and Gilbert. Messrs. Denig and F. Culbertson, at the request of Mr. Alexander Culbertson, prepared skins of the Grizzly Bear, and other large Mammalia.
The following Specimens have been deposited in conformity with the } i provisions of the Act establishing the Sinithsonian Institution.
Generar Land Orrice; Minerals illustrating the Geological Survey of the Mineral region of Lake Superior, by Dr. Charles ‘I. Jacksou, contained im uineteen boxes.
Possessing myself large collections in different branches of Zoology, I have deposited them with the Institution. The following list contains a brief enumeration of the most important of these. It will thus be evident to the Naturalist, that the objects already secured by the Smithsonian Institution, if not as numerous as in other collections, are yet valuable as being more than usually complete in certain neglected branches of Natural History.
Summary of Speciinens belonging to S. F. Baird, and deposited by him in the Cabinet of the Smithsonian Institution.
Skins of the principal Mammalia of the Northern aud Middle States, and of Eastern Europe, ke
with namerons specimeus of the smaller species, preserved in alcohol. : S55

<<<Page: 31>>>

A collection of about five hundred species of North American Birds, in skins, consisting of about twenty-five hundred specimens in the various stages of age, sex, and season.
About two hundred and fifty species of European Birds, in one thousand specimens.
Eggs of about one hundred and fifty species of North American Birds. Duplicates of many of them, in some cases amounting to over a hundred of a single species. ‘The nests accompany the eggs of many of these species.
Nests and Eggs of about seventy-five species of European Birds, likewise in duplicate.
A collection of the Reptiles and Fishes of the United States, at present contained in more than five hundred glass jars, and in numerous barrels, kegs and tin vessels. Most of the species are represented by numerous specimens, amounting in certain cases to hundreds and even thousands of a single species. No approximation can, at present, be formed as to the number, either of the specimens or of the species. Very many, especially of the Fishes, are still undescribed. Most of them have been personally collected in special expeditions to various parts of the country, such as Eastern and Western Peunsylvania, the Great Lakes, Northern and Eastern Ohio, Southern and Western Virginia, &c. Others have been furnished by contributors in Georgia, Florida, Mississippi, Arkansas and other states. his collection is especially rich in batrachian reptiles, which are preserved in Jarge numbers in all their peculiar conditions of transformation. ‘There is, in addition to these, a good collection of the fresh water Fishes aud Reptiles of Central and Eastern Europe.
Embryos of many Birds, Mammals, and Batrachian Reptiles.
Skulls and Skeletons of many North American vertebrata, amounting to some six hundred specimens. A considerable wamber, also, belonging to Muropean species.
Also, Microscopical sections of Teeth and Bone of various species of North America ver tebrata.
A large collection of fossil bones from various caves in Pennsylvania and Virginia. This includes nearly all the species of Mammalia now living in the United States, with quite a number of those which are now entirely extinct. Cheloniam remains likewise in large nuwber,
Having thus presented the general statistics of the Museum up to the present time, I next proceed to a statement of the more active operations of the Natural History poe of the Institution. For an account of what had been done up to 1850, by Messrs Lindheimer, Fendler fnd Wright, I would refer to the A ppendix to your last report (for 1849."-'The ex cpeditions undertaken since that time, have been those of Mr. Gualbertzers and myself.
The expedition of Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson took place during the past summer. For several years I have been receiving valuable specimens from different friends, in the Upper Missouri, whose other duties, however, prevented them from collecting as much as could have been wished. Mr. Culbertson being about to visit this region for the benefit of his health, offered to make for the Smithsonian Institution such collections in Natural History, as might be indicated to him as desirable; I accordingly prepared a list of desiderata, and among others, directed his attention to the eocene deposits of White River, known as the Mauvaises Terres or bad lands. He accordingly set out from St. Louis, in April, in company with his brother ae Culbertson, Esq., for many years connected with the American Fur company, and then on his way to look after its affairs in the remote regions

<<<Page: 32>>>

rab 44
of the Yellowstone. From St. Louis they proceeded to St. Josephs in a steamboat, and thence by land, in a carriage to Fort Pierre. A day or two after arriving at this font. Mr. Culbertson started out to the “ Bad Lands”’ with a party, and after several days march reached the spot where Mr. A. Culbertson had previously found the fossil Mammalia, (Poebrotherium Wilsonu, Merycoidodon Culbertsonii, &c.,) presented by him to the Academy of Natural Sciences, and described by Dr. Leidy. Here additional specimens were soon found, and a cart was laden to its utmost capacity. With these, the party retuned to Fort Pierre, whence, after a short rest, Mr. C. eared on board the EE] Paso, and in her, ascended the Missouri to a pomt above Milk river, some hundreds of miles beyond Fort Unien, and higher than any steamboat had ever gone previously. Descending the river again, after but short stops at the various trading posts, Mr. C. arrived in St. Louis in July, and reached his home in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, in August. The main object of his trip, viz:
relief from a distres sing cough, threatening consumption, had been gained,
and his renewed strenoth ola fdened the hearts of his friends. But Shortly
after his return he mas attacked by an unusually fatal form of bilious dysentery, then prevalent in the neighborhood, and died after an illness of a few weeks. Mr. C. left a full journal of all the events connected with his trip, though without any view to its publication. This, which was unrevised by him at his death, I found to contain much interesting matter, relative to the Natural History and topography of the country, the manners and statistics of the Indians, &c. The mz muscript was put into my hands by the parents of Mr. Culbertson, with permission to select for publication such portions as might be dee Wed desirable. I therefore present this journal to you, as containing the only account of the country above Fort Pierre, since 1833, when it was visited by the Prince de Wied. It may be well to Shserver that T have not felt at liberty to alter the original to any material extent, which, combined with the fact of its entire lack of revision by the author, will be a sufficient excuse for any imperfections of style.
The fossil remains procured by Mr. Culbertson, constitute an exceedingly interesting series of Mainmalian and Reptilian species, including many that had never been described. These have been referred to Dr. Leidy, for examination, who has already characterized four species of Mammalia:
Rhinoceros occidentalis. ° i Nebraskensis.
Palaeothericm Baird.
Agcriocherus antiguus.
The other specimens brought by Mr. C. consisted of skulls, skins and skeletons of the larger Mammalia, as buffalo, grizzly bear, prairie wolf, (Canis latra ans ) white wolf, (C occidentalis) wolverine, (Gulo luscus,) beaver, &c., &e. Some of these he collected himself, others had -beéh procured during the previous winter, by Messrs. E. T. Denig, and Ferdinand Culbertson, at the request of Alexander Culbertson. Various specimens were also obtained from other gentlemen connected with the American Fur Company. Itis due to this company to state, that with their usual liberality, they rendered Mr. C. every assistance in pes power, as they had prev iously done to the Prince de Wied, Nicollet, Audubon, Evans and other travelers. The thanks of the Tnstitation are due to Messrs. Denig and F. Cul

<<<Page: 33>>>

45 ‘ Fig bertson, and especially to Mr. Alexander Culbertson for their valuable services. The latter gentleman bore the entire expense of the trip from Fort Pierre to the Mauvaises Terres, besiles paying a considerable sum to hunters and others for many of the specimens sent.
The second expedition referred to as undertaken by myself, had mainly for its object the investigation of the ichthyo logy of Northern New York ani Vermont. With three companions, in the m« mths of July and August last, I visited the northern shores of Take t Char mplain, the valley of the Upper Hudson, Lake George, the St. Lawrence river, lake Ontario and Seneca lake.
In this trip many species of animals, and especially offishes, both described and undescribed§ were obtained, and many interesting facts ascertained with regard to their geographici il distribution. A remarkable new
enlus of C ‘ottoid fishes (Triglopsis,) discovered in lake Ontario, will s shone ie published by the ratty ina monograph prepared by Mr. C. Girard.
I beg leave in conclusion to p resent some general suggestions in regard to future oper ations of the Smithsonian Institution, in the depi irtment of lee Mistory. It is a fundamental principle in its organization, as presented 1 the programme and in your annual reports, not to attempt complete cc A lections of all natural objec ts, but ra tet to gather up such materials for investigation as have been co: nparatively neglec ted by others. It may, indeed, be desirable, for purposes of general examination, to have extensive series of specimens from the three kingdoms of nature—animal, vegetable, and mineral, so far as they can be procured and exhibited without undue expense of time, money and space. For the present, however, attention should be diracted mainly to such branches as hitherto may not have had their due share of attention.
A prominent object in making collections should be to furnish to travellers the means of determining the character of objects collected various parts of North America.
Hitherto, oficers of the army eiienine to Washington have generally been obliged to send or carry these objects out of the > city, for the purpose of identification or verlica ition, thus involving a consider loss of time and credit. These specimens becoming widel y scattered, rarely return hither, and when another occasion arise 8, i whole labor has to be repeatel. By retaining them here and combining with them such series of specimens from North America, and other parts of the world, as may be specially procured for the purpose, yeh little delay in making up reports, need hereafter arise. It will, course, be necessary to call in the aid of the library 1 in procuring aL ce general and special works
which may be required in these investiations. Tow me such help the rich collection of transactions of learned societies, alreac ly in the library of the Institution, and angmenting daily, will greatly tend.
Collections illustratins the gene yal Natural History of North America, become then, an object of primary importance. Much valuable material of this kind is now on hand, and much, it is hoped, will be procured in the various ways hereafter specified. An excee linoly i important aid to this is furnished by the act of Consress establishing the S: nithsonian Institution which specifies that all objects of Natural History belonging, or hereafter to belons to the United States, in whosoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such persons as are authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them. ‘This entrusts to the Institution the custody of all collec

<<<Page: 34>>>

tions publicly and officially made; but there are many valuable specimens procured in a private way whose acquisition must depend on the co-operation and assistance of officers of the various expeditions, and of heads of departments. Officers stationed at the various military posts, have it in their power to do much, by procuring the objects of Natural History in their vicinity, and forwarding them to Washington. It is earnestly hoped that this co-operation may be obtained generally.
Next in importance to North American objects of nature, are those of Europe. The ties uniting the two continents are not merely those of moral, civil and_ political relationship, for the connection existing between the Natural History of the two is almost as intimate. A large proportion of the genera found in the one, eccur in the other, often the same species, or those that are very closely allied. This is true of all orders of animals and
“of most families of plants.
Next to Europe comes iano a region which, in some respects, is more closely allied to our country, than even Europe. This is especilly the ase with respect to the reptiles, some of which, as species of Plestiodon, and others have been considered by eminent herpetologists absolutely identical with North American. Unfortunately there are at the present time almost insuperable difficulties in the way of procuring Japanese specimens; the Dutch Noe being the only ones who have succeeded in exploring even the shores of this country. Little can be done, therefore, except by exchange with the museums of Holland.
With reoard to collections from other countries than those specified, the best rule will be to seek for those series which the other museums of the country do not possess. What these are, I do not, at present, feel prepared to state; but hope to have it in my power in a future report, to illustrate more fully this subject, in a general account of the different collections in North America.
It may, per rhaps, be well to indicate briefly the branches of North American Natural History which have recieved most attention. Mammalia have been ably investigated by Godman, Harlan, Audubon, Bachman and others; the present state of our knowledge of the subject being exhibited in the works of the two last named gentlemen. ‘There is, however, no good collection of these animals; that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, bemg much the best in the country. The private collection of Mr. Audubon is more complete than any other. It is a mortifying fact that this gentleman was obliged to have recourse to foreion museums for the purpose of figuring and “describing certain North American species, which should have been accessible in one collection, at least, in this country.
The ornithological collections of the country, both public and private are very numerous. Among the former, that of the Academy of Natural Sciences, is by far the best. The Ne ‘w York Lyceum, and the Boston Natural History Society have pretty good collections. Of private collections, among the best are those of Messrs. Bell, Giraud and Lawrence, of New York. The ornithology of North America, east of the Mississippi, has been pretty well worked up, but much remains to be done west of this boundary.
General collections of North American reptiles are very rare in this country, that of the Philadelphia academy as usual, being the best among public museums. Pp

<<<Page: 35>>>

47 [en
Fishes have been preserved in several museums throughout the country. The Boston Natural History Society has the best series of North American marine species. The New York Lyceum comes next. Neither possesses many fresh water species, being vastly exceeded in this respect by the collections of Professor Agassiz and my own. ‘There is more difficulty in preserving alcoholic Jannat (as collections of reptiles and fishes must, for the most part necessarily be) than those that are dried; it is to this fact that the scanty eaten atc of these classes of ver tebrat ta, is owing.
Among insects, Coleoptera have been almost exclusively studied. The private collections of Messrs. Leconte, Haldeman, Morris, Harris, Melsheimer and many others, are rich in species. ‘The Messrs. Leconte, father and son, have the largest of these, embracing many hundreds and indeed thousands of undescribed species. The public collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia, and others, are of less value. Lepidoptera, or butterflies and moths, come next. The best collection perhaps of these, is that of Mr. Titian Peale, of Washington; Messrs. Harris, Morris, and Haldeman, and the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, have also good ‘collections.
Comparatively little is known of the other orders of insects. The Neuroptera and Orthoptera of New England have been collected by Dr. Harris ; Diptera, Hemiptera, and Hymenoptera, have been almost entirely neglected. Say is eos the only American Naturalist who has occ upied the whole field of Entomology.
Spiders have been ably investigated and abundantly collected by Hentz, who is still continuing his labors in this department. Much, however, remains to be done.
The Podophthaimian Crustacea are preserved in various cabinets, although many species yet await discovery. Messrs. Say, Dana, and Gibbes, are the principal workers in this field. The remaining orders, as Amphipoda, Entomostraca, Isopoda, &c., &c., have been almost wholly neglected.
The North Pin crican worms have never been collected to any extent.
Of all invertebrata, the hard parts of Mollusca, or shells, have received most.attention in this country. ‘There are numerous valua ble cabinets, public and private, including both domestic and foreign species. The best public collection of American species , 1s probably tl iat of the Acaden ny of Natural Sciences. Among private ones, may be named those of Dr. John C. Jay, John S. Phillips, Asanc Lea, Major John Leconte, J. G. Anthony, Professor Haldeman, and others. Most of these centlemen have had especial reference to ered. in their collections. Nothing, however, has been done towards preserving a series of the animals of shells.
Very little is known of the Radiata of North America. A few s species are preserved in public museums, but by far the most extensive collection is that belonging to Professor Mpassiz.
Phanerogamic plants have received much attention, and the private collections of Drs. Torrey, Gray and others, with numerous public ones of greater or less extent, leave comparatively little to be desired in this respect. Great additions are continually being received from the count ry west of the Mississippi, in collections made by officers of the army and private individuals. Among these should be mentioned Col. Fremont, Col. Emory, Capt. Stansbury, Major Rich, Messrs. Lindheimer, Wright, F eadlen , Gregg, Wislizenus, Drummond, and others.
Cryptogamic botany has been considerably neglected until within a few
. » oa

<<<Page: 36>>>

[akg me 48
years past. The best collections are in the hands of private individuals, as Messrs. Sullivant, Tuckerman, Curtis, Bailey, Lesquereux, and others. <A great deal remains still to be done i in this branch of botany. The work of Dr. Harvey on North American Algw, in preparation for the Smithsonian aeration, will tend greatly to stimulate collectors to pay attention to this order. a
Collections in Palaeontology are quite numerous, though principally local. The best general collection is that of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Their museum is incomparably richer than any other in this country, in collections of fossil vertebrata. ‘The only collection of any extent, of the fossil bones found in the caves of the United States, is in the cabinet of this Institution. Of the interesting Eocene species of the Upper Missouri, Dr. Evans of Washington has made an ex ceedingly valuable collection, under direction of the Land Office. Next to this comes a similar one ade by Mr. Culbertson’for the Smithsonian Institution. ea excellent collection of tertiary fossils is in possession of Professor F. S. Holmes, of Charleston, South Carolina. The tertiary and cretaceous Ae shells in the Pineda phia Academy are very numerous in species
Many of the Mineralogical collections of this country are very complete, both as. respects’ Domestic and Foreign species. Such are the ‘cabinets of Yale College, of the Academy of N latural Sciences of Dartmouth College, of Bowdoin Colle 8 of Messrs. Markoe, Vaux, Clay, Ashmead, Aloer, Bouve, and others. The general interest in the subject of Mineralogy is erent as scarcely to require any additional stimulus, except so far as relates to Geology.
There are various ways in which collections may be made by the Smithsonian Institution, the principal of which are as follow:
Deposits by Government,
pain Individuals, Exchange,
Purchase,
Employment of Collectors, Donations.
To the first of these, I have already briefly referred. Up to the present time nothing has been received, save the series of specimens illustrating Dr. Jackson’s report on the mineral lands of Lake Superior.
In some collections, specimens deposited by individuals form a conspicuous feature. These; when of considerable extent and completeness, or when illustrating some special researches or publications, are often very important, particularly as they are, in most cases, ultimately presented. Single specimens, unless of much value are not generally desirable, as deposits. Free choice must, of course, be left the Institution, to say what shall be received, and what rejected.
To the individual collector, exchange with other individuals or with societies, forms the principal mode of forming his cabinet, beyond what may be personally procurable. This of course, implies that the specimens be gathered in larger quantities than would be necessary for a single collection. Bya judicious system of exchange, based upon a large stock of duplicates, it becomes possible to procure almost any species, “domestic or foreign, at little expense beyond that of transportation. To this end it is desirable to secure large numbers of such objects as may be specified hereafter. &
ih ’

<<<Page: 37>>>

19 [
Purchase is an excellent method of increasing a collection in a short ume. It not unfrequently happens, however, that acquisitions thus made are of comparatively little value, as is found to be the case in regard to most of the Buse taneous museums, public and private, which are offered for sale. It is of course different with respect to collections made for a specific purpose by practised Naturalists, particularly when they contain undescribed species, or serve as the types of standard works. Considerable operations of this kind require large sums of money as will be seen by reference to the annual statement of “expenditures made by the British government in behalf of the National Museum;* and with the numerous drafts on its income, it is not deemed expedient for the Smithsonian Institution ever to do much for its cabinet by direct purchase. It is confidently believed too, that the Museum will increase almost as rapidly as accommodations can be furnished, by donations of individuals, who may have it in their power to make collections, as well as by the special efforts of its officers. This hope is strengthened by the actual experience of other institutions.
The employ ment or assistance of collectors in visiting particular portions of country is productive of very important results at very little expense. In illustration of this, I would refer to the acquisitions made by the Institution through Messrs. Lendler, Lindheimer, Wright, Culbertson,
bs * Expenditures by the British Government for the specimens of Natural History in the British Museum,
FROM 1753 to 1846 INCLUSIVE.
Natural History in general, -° £10,405 3 8 Minerals and Fossils, eee aed: Zoological specimens, 1275) 4 II Botanical, . 1,204 11 7 — — £41,599 12 3 1847. Minerals and Fossils, . Lp lS) Zoological specimens, —J;295. 47° 8 Botanical specimens, ~ 3L 15 0 Preparation of specimens, L3i7 F 5 —_ -——3,297 2 10 1848. Minerals and Fossils, J,11) 36 9 Zoological specimens, 1,085 5 10 Botanical specimens, . . ; 40 1QaES Preparation of specimens, : = slecoo a Lite, O — 3,496 15 4 1849. Minerals and Fossils, = «70! 1270 Zoological specimens, 1080 6 J Botanical specimens, . 40h) Stai3 Preparation of specimens, 945 14 7 — 2768 00 II Total, SSL 16 vee Total Expenditures of all kinds, Natural History, Specimens, Books, Fine Arts, &c. From 1753 to 1846 inclusive, £ 816,063 11 0 1847, ° L 49,854 7 10 1648; = 49,345 211 1849, A779 63 «4 : 963,555 5 1
Mis—4.

<<<Page: 38>>>

and others. In this I am also borne out by my own experience. For several years past, I have been in the habit of visiting different portions of the United States, mainly in search of vertebrate animals. Accompanied on such occasions by zealous volunteers, | have succeeded in accumulating very extensive collections, including very many rare, and even undescribed species, besides obtaining much valuable information in regard to the general history of animals and plants.
It is mainly to the employment of collectors, that the great European museums owe their richness. In most of these a regular corps is employed continually, in travelling through various portions of the world and gathering large numbers of duplicates which are ultimately distributed, in ex-
thew to other institutions.
In cases where memoirs, containing descriptions of animals or plants are presented to the Institution for publication, it should, as far as possible, be made a condition of their acceptance, that a series of the objects described be deposited for the purpose of being placed on record, and as authenticating the species. These should be labelled by the author, and the names thus attached, be ever afterward retamed, even though they may have been incorrect, or may have been modified by subsequent discoveries. Individuals too, should be requested to present similar specimens to be kept in the
same manner, illustrating descriptions published elsewhere than by the Smithsonian Institution.
At some future period, when the number of duplicates is sufficiently large, it may be possible to furnish lyceums, schools, colleges and other institutions with series of specimens properly labelled and arranged, of various branches of Natural History. Individuals too, engaged in special investigations, may hereafter find it practicable to procure objects j im such quantities or of such character, as to render material, if not indispensable aid. ‘This feature will, however, require the cordial co-operation of naturalists and collectors, to render it practicable.
I may remark that for the assistance of those who may be unskilled in the collecting, preservation and packing of specimens, a pamphlet containing the dineenons | is now in preparation, and will shortly be issued by the Instic tution. This will be of considerable size, and in addition to ‘the merely
taxidermical portions, will contain notices of special desiderata, in par ticular portions of the world; a brief indication of the principal divisions of Natural History ; and monies of the most accessible sources to which the begimner must apply for information respecting the different branches of the subject ; the whole illustrated by figures. Respectfully submitted, SPENCER F. BAIRD December 31, 1850.

<<<Page: 39>>>

51 pte
No.l: REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
The Executive committee submitted to the Board the following report of the expenditures, state of finances, &c., of the Smithsonian Institution up to the end of the year, 1850:
The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into
the Treasury of the United States, was--------------$515,169 00 The annual interest on the same at six per cent., iS------------------------------$30,910 04
The interest which had accrued up to July, 1846, when the trust was placed under the care of
the Regents, was----------------------------------242,129 00 Total,----------------------------------$757,298 00 The Regents were authorized to expend on the building, the $242,129,
which had accrued in interest, together with such portions of interest on the original bequest as might remain ‘unexpended i in any year. It was, however thought that the income of the original bequest w ould be small in proportion to the demand made upon it, in carrying out the several parts of the extended plan of organization, and in defraying the necessary expenses of a large building. The Regents, therefore determined to increase the permanent fund by saving from the accrued and accruing interest, the sum of $150,000, and for this purpose they resolved to limit the expenditure on the building and grounds to the sum of $250,000. In order to save a part of the accrued interest, it was further resolved that the building should not be completed at once, arta in the course of a number of years, and that the sum intended for its erection, should be put at interest, so that the income from this source, might in parte defray the expense of the edifice.
To carry out this lan, the $242 000 of accrued interest with an addition of interest sufficient to make up $2 50, 000, were drawn from the Treasury and invested in United States sec anes and in order that the Institution might not suffer loss by any depreciation of these securities, the contracts of the building were made payable in Treasury notes at par value, or jn specie, at the option of the Regents.
This temporary investment has proved entirely successful. It has yielded a constant interest, and also a premium in alrnost every case of sale, on account of the rise in the value of government securities.
Of the original sum thus put at interest, there remains at present, $180,000, whic h, at sixteen per cent., the present premium of government securities is worth $208,800. From this it’ appears, that after “all the expenditure on the building and grounds, on researches, publications and lectures, on the Library, Museum, and Gallery of “Art, not only is the original bequest untouched, but there is now on hand, $208,300, of unexpended income. '
At the last meeting of the Board of Regents, it was resolved to fire-proof

<<<Page: 40>>>

ey 52
the interior of the centre building, at an additional expense of $44,000. The whole cost of the building and grounds in round numbers will then be $300,000. The only way in which this additional expenditure can be met without interferig with the plan of finance above described, is that of extending the time of completing the building. The scheme of adding to the original bequest, will be placed beyond the possibility of failure from any further demands on account of the building, if the petition presented to Congress, to take from the Institution, to be ‘placed with the original bequest, the sum of $150,000 be granted, there will then remain on hand unexpended, a sum sufficient to complete the whole of the exterior, all the interior of the two wings and of the two ranges, and all the rooms of the towers of the building. This space will be sufficient for the wants of the Institution, until the accumulating interest will enable the Regents to finish the remainder in accordance with the fire-proof plan.
At the last meeting of the Board, a new system of keeping the accounts, and making the disbursements was adopted. From the beginning of the Institution | up to this time, the accounts had been kept and the disbursements made by the Chairman of the Executive committee. This method was temporarily adopted, but had been continued until the expiration of the term of service of the Hon. W. W. Seaton, Chairman of the Executive committee, rendered a change necessary. ‘This gentleman had kept the accounts from the beginning, and made the “disbursements without charge to the Institution, and since it was not proper to burthen his successor with such onerous duties, it was resolved that the following system be adopted :
1. That an assistant be appointed to take charge of the funds for the current expenses of the Institution, who shall give security for the safe keeping of all moneys belonging to the Institution, which shall come into his possession.
2. That the funds before mentioned, be deposited until otherwise ordered, with Messrs. Corcoran and Riggs, to the credit of the Treasurer of the Institution.
3. That all bills presented for payment, shall be audited and certified by the Secretary, on whose order, the assistant acting as ‘Treasurer shall pay them.
4. That the Treasurer report to the Secretary monthly, all payments made by him during the preceding month.
5. That all accounts be examined and certified by the Executive committee.
6. That the account books be kept in the Smithsonian building, so that the Secretary and Executive committee may have ready access to them.
The Hon. W. W. Seaton was chosen Treasurer, and signified his acceptance of the office, but that he would receive no compensation for his services.
The new system of accounts went into operation at the beginning of July last, and has been continued up to this time with satisfaction to the committee.
At the beginning of the institution it was not possible before knowing the developement of the plans of organization, in practical operation to adopt a classification of accounts showing the expenditure for different objects. The plan of operations is now however so far established, that a system of classification may be adopted.
The Secretary has accordingly, with the assistance of the other officers of the Institution, prepared a programme of accounts, which may serve until

<<<Page: 41>>>

the building is completed, and afterwards form the basis of a classification for all future operations. This programme which receives the approbation of the committee is as follows:
ie Pay on contracts for building. . Pay of architects and superintendents, including office and incidentals. . Expenses of building committee, including clerk hire. 1 Incidental expenses to building, V1z ( 1.) Experiments on, and tests of, Building Materials. ( 2.) Examination of Quarries. (5. ) Miscellaneous. ( 4. ) Premiums paid Architects. Turniture and Fixtures for uses in common.
Do. do. Publications.
Do. do. Researches.
Do. do. Lectures and Apparatus. Do. do. Library.
Do. do. Museum.
Do. do. Gallery of Art.
6. Grounds.
1. Expenses of the Board of Regents and Committees.
2. Lighting and Heating.
3. Postage.
A. Transportation.
5. Stationery.
6. General Printing.
7. Incidentals eeneral, including Messenger, Clerk hire, &c. 8. Salaries.
IU]. pusricaTions, RESEARCHES AND LECTURES.
1. Publications. ( 1. ) Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. é ) Reports on Progress of Knowledge. 5. ) Other Publications. 2. Researches. ( 1.) Meteorology. 2. ) Computations. 3. ) Investigations. os eon. 1. ) Pay of Lecturers. ( 2.) Illustrations for Lectures. iy, ) Attendance, Lighting, Advertising, &c. . Apparatus. . Salaries.

<<<Page: 42>>>

r1] 54
IV. LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. 1. Library. ( 1.) Cost of Books. ( 2.) General Catalogue. . ) Copyrights. . ) Incidentals to Library, Binding, Messengers, Clerk hire, &c. ) Salaries. seum. . ) Explorations. . ) Expenses of Collections. . ) Cost of Transportation. . ) Incidentals to Museum. 5. Salaries. lery of Art. . ) Purchases. ( 2.) Incidentals.
The Secretary has also with the assistance of Professor Jewett, and Col. W. B. Randolph, of the United States Treasury Department, gone over all the accounts from the beginning of the Institution, and re-arranged them in accordance with this programme. In making this re-arrangement, and critical examination of all the accounts, they have found no errors of any magnitude, and the amount of receipts and expenditure i in this new arrangement perfectly agree with those presented in the general account of Mr. Seaton.
In a few cases payments have been made in accordance with the spirit of the resolutions of the Board, but which fall under no special appropriation, the committee would therefore suggest that a special action of the Board be taken with reference to these.
rw) ee S Ore ok
eo PEO wWUR
Fa OD ee

<<<Page: 43>>>



<<<Page: 44>>>

(a1 56 Dr. FUND ACCOUNT OF
RECEIPTS. 1846 July 1, To James Smithson, net proceeds of his bequest, $ 515,169 00 oe Interest thereon to date, paid by the United States, 242,129 00 Sept. 10, HW. W. Hilliard, Regent, over payment returned, 90 NSAve Wan. -jis Interest on assumed debt, Ist July to 3lst December 1846, first half year, 15,455 6? July 5, Interest on assumed debt, to Ist July 1847,second haJf year, 15,455 07 Oct. I, Interest on $250,000 Treasury notes,to 17th August, six months, 7,500 00: Nov. 26, Proceeds of ‘Treasury notes sold, viz > amount of notes, $10,000 00: Interest to day of sale, 121 67 <TD) A aye $ 805,830 71 1845 Jan. 1, To proceeds of Prof. Henry’s Leetures at Princeton, 8 1,000 00 GG IBY {uterest on assumed debt, to Ist January, 1043, third half year, 15,455 00 April 1, ee on $240,000 Treasury notes to 17th February, 1348, six months, 7,200 90 eé 4, George M. Dallas, Chancellor. premium paid for , $7,000 ‘Treasury notes. 105 09 a ce deposit to credit of Wm. W: Seaton, Chairman, 95 02 May 10, Proceeds of Treasury notes viz, amount cf notes 37,000 00: Premium thereon, 140 OV Interest to day of sale, 45 50
July 7, Interest on assumed debt, to Ist July, 1848,
fourth half year, 15,455 00 Aug. 17, BS $240,000 Treasury notes, to VZth August, six months, 7,200 00 CN Proceeds of ‘Treasury notes viz,amount of notes, 5,000 00 Premium, S200 00 Less commission,, 12.50 187 50 Interest to day of sale, 5 00
Oct. 16 Proceeds of Treasury notes, viz: amount of notes 9,000 0d
Premium, 270 00 Less commission, 1125 958 75 Interest to day of sale, ——-— 85 5 9,344 25 $ 68,232 25 1849 Jan: 5, To Interest on assumed debt, fifth half year, $15,455 14 Feb. 17, Treasury notes, this amount redeemed and funded in United States six per cent stock, 226,000 00 Oe eh, Interest on ‘Treasury notes, $ 226,000, to 17th February, six months, 6,780. 0d April 17, United States six per cent stock sold, viz,amount : of stock $16,000. 00 Preminns, $1,609 00 Less eommission, 4) 00
—1,560 00 17,560 00 July 2, Interest on $210,000 stock, from 17th February,
to 30th June, 1849 4,614 24 sé Ds Gs assumed debt, sixth half year, 45,455 U7 Oct. 20, United States six per cent stock sold, viz, amount of stock, $10,080 00 Premiuin, $ 1,312 50 Less commission 25 00—1,287 50: 11,287 50
$ 297,151 95

<<<Page: 45>>>

57 fi] THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Cr.
1846 July 1, By the United States—assumed debt, $ 515,169 00 Sept. 6, Wim. W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Committee —
From treasury United States, 2,000 09
«© 40. Repaid by Mr. Hilliard, 18)
Dec. 2), From treasury United States, 2,000 60
1347 Feb. 17, Treasury notes, proceeds of warrant on treasnry United States, 250,000 00
ere); Win. W. Seaton, Chairman Exeentive Committee —
From treasury United States, 3.584 07
July 8, Second half year, interest on assumed debt, 15.465 07
Oct. 21, Six months interest on $250,060 treasury notes, 7,500 00
Nov. 26, Proceeds of $10,000 notes sold, 10,121 67
$805,830 71
1848 Jan. 1, By Prof. Joseph Henry, Secretary, on account of his salary, $1,060 00
cole 1, Wim. W. Seaton, Chairman Execative Committee, third half years interest, 15,455 08
April 1, Treasury notes, investment of so much interest on notes received this day, 7,000 00 George M. Dallas, Chancellor, balance of said interest, 200 04
se 4, William W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Comuiittee, deposited by Mr. Dallas, 95 00 May 10, Proceeds of notes sold, Velitssmet July 5, Fourth balf year’s interest 15,455 00 Aug. 2, Interest on Treasury notes due 17th August, 7200 0 “« QA, Proceeds of notes sold, 5,192 5@ Oct. 16, Proceeds of notes sold, 9,344 25 Profit and Loss, premiuin paid for $7,000 treasury notes, * 105 00
ree ie
$ 68,232 25
1849 Jan. 9, By Wm. W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Committee, fifth
half’ year’s interest, $15.45 14 Fehe 17, United States six per cent stock, loan of 1847, 226,005 60 28, Win. W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Comuinittee, 0
interest un ‘Treasury notes, 17th February, 6,750 00
Apri\ 17, Proceeds of stock sold, 17,560 00 July 2, Interest on stock to 30th June, 4,614 24 ih Sixth half year’s interest, 15,455 07
Oct2), Proceeds of stock sold, : 11,287 50
tenes
$ 207,151 95

<<<Page: 46>>>

EXPENDITURES. 185) Jan. 2, By William W. Seaton, Chairman Executive Committee, in-
terest on stock to Ist Jannary, $ 6,000 00 4, Seventh half year’s interest, 15.445 07 July 2, William W. Seaton, Treasurer, interest on stock to 30th June, 6,000 00 9, Righth half year’s interest, 15,455 07 Dis Proceeds of stock sold, 11,375 00 Sept. 19, do. do 11,600 00 Dec. 22, Furnitnre sold on account of pay of architects, &ce., 50 71 31, Interest on stock to 3lst December, 1550, 5,400 V0 irae a es aa
$75,335 85

<<<Page: 47>>>

ads! AT 26K Gee's = (90 SOS =| -TIT 00. 0S x9 008 ag ats el ge aati 00 0G6'I : : ; : hee : 100 OGS'L : : : : : ‘gyoayiyory pied stunioarg OL OSG ‘ aa | : : 192 OGG : 0 : : ‘sanuenb JO WonVUnUEX | ¢9 C9 5 joe cr 0 29 lel Qap ° A : ‘sirliayeu Suipying Jo sjsai pur uo syrautsedxy 60 G9E'T 0 9 : Al 15 o¢e'T Wess : : F ‘sauMUMlog, Supping jo sasuad xo Of 910°CT lah 690% el Fels 98 6FGS OL Gre < . ; : “ow ‘syuapuaiuiiodng ‘siaanyory Jo Aud 00 O0O0'OFL $00 COUPES |00 OUS'OS$ [00 Ols'sh $ (00 0686S | ° : ‘ : 6 ‘Furppng sof siozyuos uo Avg | | "SGNOO0UD ‘SANALXIA GNV AUNLINGNd “ONIGTOG TI ‘ayesois5 | ‘QGgT dwax | “G7BT IeaR | ‘QPST waz | “LYS eae : .| -oaq STS OL!
uaars aLofag sjunoaan fo aurupsSoud ay) YpUN aaUnp.LoIID UL pasuUDLLD “QGRT wah ay, fo pua oy) 0p worngrpsuy ayz fo Susuursog ayz wowf sounppuaday ay} 2]v fo quawan)y jnLouay v sr surmozjof ay,

<<<Page: 48>>>

ejuaplouy 00 €0L (00 OL ° ; 5 ! . | : g : ‘op ‘uonryiodsur.y Jo ysog 0G 2éL (00 6hS OG FSI . : : ‘ . : : ‘anasn fy ‘suonoal}og Jo sesuadxof 00 OST 00 OST. . : oe : : : ‘ : ‘ : : winasn py ‘Suonuiojd yof 06 GES ie 666° 86 66S 00 OSL . ° : ° . . . ‘Keaquy ‘souepeg 96 SCGG eL 0624 (00 OU9 . : . (S07 ‘aasuassapy ‘any ylalgQ ‘2 Bupuig) = Iqv] 0} sjeinopiouy 99 G&G 99 IP : 00 ¢¢ ‘ ‘s1ysuddod GG 948 8S 16S {ise y ‘ C * : ° e S ‘onsopmed OQ [vteuayy FG SL0'8 PL 8238'S 98 G9E 66 SPS ye a8 : : : ; ; ‘syoog JO 80D
‘LUV JO AUDTIVS GNV ‘NWOUSOW “AUVUAIT “AT 00 OST'T 60 000'L 00 OSL ‘ . : : 2 c e G . “929 ‘suoneorqng ‘salueg Gl LEG Of RE @9 SIL v0 08 p G . ° . g ‘souuioa'T 10) SuNysy pue sourpusly Ge C6 : 6G CH : i : Q : : S gy . ‘saunjoa'J a sujeaedde pur saone Qsnif GO 962 c0 169° 00 2% Y : : : : . . . ; ‘s10.1}9a"]_ JO keg 00 OFG 00 06 00 0S {00 O0OT iB 7 . ° : ‘ ° : ‘suonRsiseauy OO OGL . : 00 SZg (ee Sea . C . . : $ . , ‘suonRiudwoy

<<<Page: 49>>>

fel 2] | 62
From the foregoing exhibit it will be seen that the funds of the Institution have been carefully husbanded, are now in a good condition, and that, though the cost of the building will exceed the first estimate, yet the original plan of saving a portion of the accrued interest to increase the capitai, will, in due time be carried out.
The Committee are of opinion, that an expenditure of twenty-five thousand dollars may be allowed from the annual income for defraying the expenses of the Institution, and for carrying on the several parts of the proeramme, during the present year, and they will hereafter introduce a resolution to that effect.
Signed, A. D. BACHE, J. A. PEARCE,
JOS“"Gie FT OTLEN:
Committee.
Up to the 3d of July, 1850, the accounts of the Institution, were kept by the Chairman of the Executive Comunittee, who also acted as Treasurer. At that time a new system of accounts was adopted, according to which they were placed under the charge of the Secretary and the Executive committee, and I was appointed Treasurer. Agreeably to this arrangement, there was deposited to my credit with Corcoran & Riggs, for the current expenditure of the Institution, sums amounting to $49,880 78, of unexpended income of the preceding half year, as detailed and accounted for in the accompanying statements.
Signed W. W. SEATON, Assistant,
JAlcting as Treasurer.
[The Treasurer’s statement is included in the preceding detailed account. }
Now EEE REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE.
The Building committee, in compliance with their appropriate duty, present the following report of the operations, expenditures, and progress on the building, during the year 1850.
At the last session of the Board, resolutions were adopted, directing a survey of the whole building, and a report on the manner and faithfulness in which the building®contract had been executed, and the best plan for finishing the remainder of the building.
It was found by this examination, that the exterior of the building had been well constructed, but that in order to reduce the cost, a plan had been adopted and materials employed for the interior, not proper for a building destined to contain property too valuable to be exposed to even a re

<<<Page: 50>>>

63. | es!
mote danger of fire, and which, especially so far as it shall consist of donations, will involve the implied condition that it shall be safely preserved.
In accordance with this result, a resolution was adopted, directing the interior of the centre building to be constructed in fire-proof, and that the time of finishing it be extended until the accumulating interest would be sufficient to meet the additional ex ‘pense.
According to the decision of the Architect, who, by the terms of the original contract, is the umpire betw een the Re gents antl the contractor, the latter is entitled to the sum of $185,154 for completing the whole exterior of the building and the enue of fie wings, ranges, and towers. When this much is finished, the present contract wall terminate ; though the same contractor has agreed, should the Regents choose to acc ept his proposition, to finish the remainder of the interior in fire-proof, on the terms mentioned in the annexed report of the Architect.
Agreeably to the estimates of Mr. Renwick, and the proposition of Mr. Cameron for fire-proofiing, the whole cost of the building when finished, will be $284,000; but as the preliminary expenditure for premiums to architects, and other incidental charges connected with the work are not included in this estimate, the committee think it will be safer to state the whole cost at, say in round numbers, 500,000.
Since the commencement of the building, there has been expended on the grounds $3,747 51. The committee, Herat are pleased to be able to inform the Boat that but little more expenditure on this account will probably be necessary beyond that which is requisite for the preservation of the trees and shrubs already planted.
An appropriation has been made by Congress for the general improvement of the public grounds, or, as they are commonly called the Mall. Mr. Downing, the well ‘known writer on Ral Architecture, at the request of the President, is now preparing a plan for converting the whole mall, including the Smithsonian grounds, into an extended landscape garden, to be traversed in different directions by gravelled walks and carriage drives, and planted with specimens, properly labelled, of all the varieties of trees and shrubs which will flourish in this c sHimate.
In the opinion of the committee, the adoption of a general plan for the improvement of the public grounds is an object of much importance. A small appropriation, annually expended with reference to a well digested plan, would do more in a few years to produce lasting effects, than many times the same sum, expended in accordance with the peculiar fancy of each succeeding super intendent.
If the plan before mentioned be adopted, (and the committee ae that it will be,) the Smithsonian lot will form a part of an extended park, of which the Smithsonian building, by its site and picturesque style of architecture, will form a prominent and most attractive feature.
For the accommodation of those who attend the lectures, plank walks have been put down from the doors of the building to the east and west extremities of the Smithsonian grounds. Much difficulty is still found, however, 1 in getting access to the building during muddy walking 3 but in the opinion of the committee, it belongs to the corporation of the city of Washington or other authority to construct and keep in good condition the approaches to the building which are beyond the Smithsonian possessions.
Do A foot bridge across the canal at Tenth street, would greatly in

<<<Page: 51>>>

‘a3: 64
crease the facility of access to those whe reside in the central portion of
the city. The construction of such a bridge has been proposed to the city
council, and your committee hope that the objects and operations of this
Institution will commend the proposition to their favorable consideration.
For a minute statement of the progress made in the building, and other details connected with the subjects noticed in the foregoing remarks, the committee refer to the report of the architect hereto appended. Respectfully submitted, Signed JEEFERSON DAVIS,
Wasnuineton, January 7, 1851. To the Honorable the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution :
GENTLEMEN: By a resolution of the Honorable the Board of Regents, passed July 3, 1850, it was determined to change the plan originally adopted for the finish of the interior of the central building, which consisted of wooden columns and girders, and to substitute in its place a plan of fire-proofing.
In accordance with the above resolution, the undersigned prepared and submitted to the honorable the committee charged with the examination of the building, four different plans for fire-proofing, and the one preferred by him was adopted.
This plan may be described as follows: The foundation will consist of a series of stone piers, connected by a system of inverted arches of brick, resting on base courses of long stone and laid in cement mortar; the inverted arches are arranged in such manner as to insure an equal pressure inall parts of the foundation, and thus to counteract, as far as possible, any unequal settlement of the earth upon which the building rests. The first story of the building containing the library, &c., will be constructed with piers and groined arches of brick, laid in cement mortar; and the second story containing the museum, will be finished with cast iron columns and girders and a groined ceiling furred with wrought iron. The whole interior will be plastered on the above described brick and iron work, in the same manner as was specified in the original contract, so as to complete the building in harmony with the original design.
Though this change in construction will add to the expense of the building, it is believed that the additional cost will be repaid by the permanence of the fire-proofing and the perfeet security it will afford to the valuable collections which may hereafter be placed in this portion of the building.
The above determination of the honorable the Board of Regents, also rendered it necessary that only such portions of the work embraced in the original contract for the building as would harmonize and become an integral part of the fire-proofing, should be constructed by the present contractor and that the expense of the portions not necessary to effect this change should be deducted from the original contract price.
It therefore became necessary to determine accurately the exact amount ¢o be paid to the contractor under the above alteration in plan, and the un‘lersigned, by the direction of the honorable the Building committee, made

<<<Page: 52>>>

65 fp my
a pro rata estimate of all the work embraced in the original contract, which estimate was based upon the original contract price.
From this estimate an exact decision was then made of the amount to be paid to the present contractor for the work, which he would be required to finish in conformity with the plan of fire-proofing, which was found to be $185,154. The following 1s an estimate of the cost of completing the whole building and its accessories, on the amended plan :
Amount to be paid G. Cameron, for completing portions of building embraced in original contract, and necessary in
amended plan.------------------------------------$185,154 00 Expense of fire-proofing central building, estimated at -------44,000 00 Plastering central building,-------------------------+----8,000 00 Galleries to Library and Museum, -------------------------2,000 00 Stairways to Onn eee 2-2 ee -------425 00 Furniture to as 66 ween ne ee eee -+--+ -----------4,700 00 Extra cartage, ------------------+------------------------200 00 Materials,--------------------------------------------1,000 00 Heating Central Building, --------------------------------3,000 00 Furnaces already put up, --------------------------------1,135 63 Architect, Superintendent and incidental expenses of office,-16,500 00 Grounds, -----------------------------------ee ---4,000 00 Additional Furniture,-----------------------------------4,000 00
274,614 63 Add for contingencies,----------+---------+-+--------------9,385 37 Making the total amount of---------------------------$ 284,000 00
It is the belief of the undersigned, that the above amount of $284,000 will, with proper economy, be sufficient to defray the expense of completing the building, and that when thus finished, it will, for cheapness and durability be unsurpassed by any building with which I am acquainted.
By a resolution, passed at the same time as the one directing the above alteration in plan, the honorable the Board of Regents also decided at the suggestion of the Hon. Jefferson Davis, ‘that the exterior of the building, ‘‘ and the interior of the towers be completed in accordance with the plan, ‘and within the time specified in the contract.”’
To carry out this decision, the operations on the building, during the last year, have principally been directed to the completion of the exterior of the building and towers. |); It was the hope of the undersigned, that the towers would have been finished and roofed in before the winter.
This expectation, has, however, not been realized, owing to the delay occasioned by the repairs in the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, which was not navigable for a period of nearly four months.
The contractor was therefore wuable to convey his stone from the quarry, and very little work was done on the building during the months most favorable for working.
The present condition of the building is as follows: The eastern and western wings are completed with the exception of some small items which will be left unfinished until a few weeks before the completion of the pre-sent contract.
Mis.—d.

<<<Page: 53>>>

Of the Smithsonian Institution, adopted at their meeting of June 1, 1850, and appended to the foregoing petition.
Resolved, That it is expedient to enlarge the permanent fund of the Institution, by the investment of such sums not exceeding $200,000 as may have been, or shall be received for accrued interest or otherwise, in addition to the principal sum of the Smithsonian bequest, augmenting the principal sum to that amount, and that application be made to Congress to receive such sums not exceeding $200,000 as may have been or shall be received for accrued interest or otherwise into the United States Treasury upon the same terms on which the original bequest has been received.
Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to communicate a copy of this resolution to Congress, and to request that provision be made by law in accordance therewith.
The Secretary also brought before the Board, the subject of the remainder of the Smithsonian bequest, left as the principal of an annuity payable to Madame de la Batut, mother of the nephew of James Smithson.
Mr. Rush gave an account of this annuity and stated that he had left the business in the hands of attornies, to whom he had written in 1846. A copy of this correspondence was read, and Mr. Rush was requested to communicate with the above mentioned persons relative to this business.
The reading of the Secretary’s report was then continued, including Professor Jewett’s report on the Library, illustrated by specimens of a new plan of stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate titles.
On motion the Board adjourned to meet on Saturday 25th instant at 10 o’clock A. M.
SaturpDay, January 20, 1851.
The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o’clock A. M.
Present: Messrs. Davis, Fitch, Lenox, Mason, Pearce, and Taney.
The Chancellor occupied the Chair.
The proceedings of the last meeting were read.
The reading of the Secretary’s report was then continued, including the report of Professor Baird on the Museum.
On motion of Mr. Davis, it was
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board be presented to Mr. Alexander Culbertson for the liberal aid rendered by him in procuring specimens of Natural History for the Institution; also, to Messrs. Edward T. Denig, Ferdinand Culbertson, and the other gentlemen of the American Fur company mentioned in Professor Baird’s report for similar services.
The concluding portion of the Secretary’s report was then read, giving an account of the Lectures which had been delivered, and other miscellaneous operations. The Secretary then gave an account of some experiments made with the Smithsonian apparatus by Mr. Espy during the past year, and the connection which has existed between this gentleman and the Institution. An appropriation has been made for several years past by Congress for Meteorology, out of which Mr. Espy has been paid. The appropriation was under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy who, in 1848, directed Mr. Espy to co-operate in his labors with the Smithsonian Institution.
Mr. Lenox presented a communication from Mr. Seaton recommending

<<<Page: 54>>>

7 rag
the placing of a bell in one of the towers of the Smithsonian building and stating that a very valuable town clock could probably be obtained from the Treasury Department. On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was Resolved, That Mr. Lenox be appointed a committee to inquire into and report upon this proposition. The Board then adjourned to meet again at the call of the Secretary.
Tuurspay, Fesruary 27, 1851.
The Board of Regents met this evening at 6 o’clock in the ante-room of the Senate Chamber.
Present: Messrs. Bache, Coleock, Davis, Fitch, Lenox, Mason, Pearce and Totten.
In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the Chair.
The proceedings of the last meeting were read.
Mr. Bache, from the Executive Committee, offered the following resolution which was adopted :
Resolved, That during the year 1851, the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars be and is hereby appropriated to be expended under the direction of the Secretary, and with the advice of the Executive Committee for the expenses of the Institution, and to carry out the several parts of the programme of organization.
On motion of Mr. Mason, it was
Resolved, That the report of the Secretary and of the Executive: Com-
mittee be adopted and form parts of the report of the Regents to Congress. On motion of Mr. Coleock, it was
Resolved, 'That the Chancellor and Secretary be authorized to make the annual report of the Regents to Congress.
A bill was presented to the Board from W. Fischer for stationery purchased in 1847 and 1848, on account of the Executive and Building committee, prior to the present system of keeping accounts.
On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was referred to the Executive Committee for examination and if found correct, for payment.
The Secretary called attention to the statement in the report of the Executive Committee, that in the examination and re-arrangement of the accounts of the Institution, there had been found a few cases in which payment had been made in accordance with the spirit of the resolutions of the Board, but which could be referred to no special appropriation.
On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was
Resolved, That these accounts be referred to the Executive Committee for examination, and if deemed correct, for approval.
The Secretary informed the Board that it was necessary to publish a new edition of the programme of organization and suggested the propriety of making a few verbal alterations in the text, and in the sentence beginning as follows:
“‘ Rewards [consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original memoirs.”” |
Of striking out the words included in brackets, which was agreed to.
On motion of Mr. Mason, it was
Resolved, 'That the Secretary be authorized to employ an accountant at
an annual salary of two hundred dollars, and to assign his duties, and that

<<<Page: 55>>>

Ee 72
there be paid to Wm. B. Randolph, two hundred dollars for the arrangement of the accounts to date as reported. On motion of Mr. Bache, it was
Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to appoint an agent abroad to conduct the exchanges of the Institution, with a salary not to exceed one hundred and fifty dollars per annum.
Mr. Davis submitted the following resolution, which was adopted :
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be requested to inquire into the expediency of providing buildings for the residences of the officers of the Institution on the Smithsonian grounds, or other convenient location, if they deem expedient to report plans and estimates for such buildings to the Board at their next meeting.
Mr Lenox, to whom was referred the subject of procuring a clock and bell for the Institution, reported that the use of a clock could be obtained free of expense to the Institution, provided a bell of a large size could be arranged in connection with it, in one of the towers of the Smithsonian building ; also, that he thought it probable that the corporation of the city of Washington would defray one half of the cost of such a bell, provided that the Institution would pay the other.
Mi. Mason then offered the following resolution, which was agreed to.
Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to purchase a bell, to be placed in one of the towers of the building to be attached to a clock, provided that the purchase be made in association with the authorities of the city of Washington, and that the size and tone of the bell be approved of by the Executive Committee and the said authorities, the sum to be paid on the part of this Institution, not to exceed five hundred dollars.
The plan of Mr. Downing for the improvement of the public mall, including the oo of the Smithsonian Institution was exhibited to the Board.
On motion, ‘die Board then adjourned sine die.
APPENDIX No. I.
Lunp — The University Library. StrockHotm — *Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien. (Royal Swedish Academy of Science.) *Vitterhets Historie och Antiquitets Akademien. Upsata — *Svenska Akademien. (Swedish Academy.)
*The University Library. NORWAY.
Brercen — Bergen’s Museum. CuRISTIANIA — “Library of the University.

<<<Page: 56>>>

Copennacen — Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab. (Royal Society of Northern Antiquarians.) Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. (Royal Danish Society of Science.) Royal Library. RUSSIA.
Dorpat — The Imperial Observatory.
Moscow — Société Impériale des Naturalistes.
Sr. Perrerssure — *Académie Impériale des Sciences. *Imperial Public Library. Imperial Mining: department.
Putxowa — *The Imperial Observatory.
AmstTERDAM — *Hollandsche Instituut der Wetenschappen, Letterkunde en schoone Kunsten. (Holland Institute of Sciences, Literature and the Fine Arts. )
Haartem — Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. ( Holland Society of Sciences. )
Lrypen — Académie des Sciences.
RotrerpAmM — *Bataafsch Genootschap der praefondervindelyke Wysbegeerte. ( Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy. )
Urrecur — * Academia Rheno-Trajectina.
Vuissincen — *(Flushing,) Zeeuwsche Genootschap der Wetenschappen. (Zealand Society of Sciences.)
Beruin — *Konigliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. (Royal Academy of Sciences.) *Royal Library. Bonn — University Library. Bremen — *City Library. Brestav — *Academia Leopoldina Carolina natural coriosorum. DrespeEn — *Royal Public Library. Eriancen — University Library. Frankrurt aM Main — Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. (Senckenberg Society.) FREIBERG — Royal Mining Academy. FremurG — *University Library. Giessen — University Library. Harte — University Library. Hampure — Public City Library. HerietserG — University Library. Jena — *University Library. " Karusrune — *Grand Ducal Library. Kanicsperc — *University Library. Leipzig — City Library. University Library. Kénigliche Sichsische Gesellschaft. Fiirstliche Jablonowski ’sche Gesellschaft.

<<<Page: 57>>>

ral 74
Marsure — Marburgische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. University Library. Municu — *Kénigl. Baierische Akademie der Wissenschaften. (Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences.) Royal Court and City Library. Prague — *University Library. Konig]. Béhmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. (Royal Bohemian Society of Sciences.) *Boéhmisches Museum. Pestu — *University Library. *Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft. Stuttgart — Royal Public Library. Tiismincen — *University Library. Vienna — *K. K. Akademie der Orientalischen Sprachen. *Imperial Library. *University Library. *Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. Wiirzsure — *University Library. BELGIUM.
BruxeLtites — Académie Royale des Sciences, des Belles Lettres et des Beaux Arts. Royal Observatory. Guent — University Library. Bruces — *Société des Sciences Naturelles. Lirce — Société Royale des Sciences. Louvain — * Academia Lovaniensis.
Ancers — *Société d’ Agriculture, Sciences et Arts BorpEeaux — *Académie des Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts. Carn — * Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles Lettres.
*Société Linnéenne de Normandie. Dison — * Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles Lettres. Litte — *Société des Sciences, de l’Agriculture et des Arts. Lyon — *Société d’ Agriculture, Histoire Naturale, et Arts Utiles. MarsrEItteE — *Académie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts. MonrreLiier — *Société Archéologique. Paris — *L’Institut de France.
*Societé des Antiquaires. “« Asiatique.
de Géographie. Géologique. Frang¢aise de Statistique Universelle. Philomatique. *¢ de l’Ecole des Chartes.
*National Library.
*Library of the Jardin des Plants.
*L’ Institut Historique.
*L’ Ecole des Mines.
*Société Ethnologique.
*Library of the City of Paris. Srraspoure — *Société des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts.
*Académie des Sciences Naturelles.

<<<Page: 58>>>

These Institutions may be summed up, as follows:
Sweden,----------------+crr rr rrr re wen e eee eee eee ------------5 Norway,-----9-or tenn errr rrr tren reece ence ene ere e n= a Denmark,------------------------------------2-2-2 eee eee 5 Russia,------------we ee +--+ ---------+--+ ---------------6 Holland,----------------------+-------------------------------6 Austria Germany, and Prussia,-----------------------+-------37 Belgium,----------wane eee ee eee ee + He ----------6 France, ---------------------------------woe cee eee --ee eee -25 Switzerland, -------------------------------------------------7 Italy,------------------------+--+ 2-2-2 2 eee eee -----e 16 Por tugal, we nn ee en nnn re ne en ee ee eee een eee if Spain,. eee eee ee en ee 3 Great Britain and Ireland,-------------------------------------41 Greece,--------------------------+--+ 02 + eee oe ee 1 Turkey,------------------0 oe ener rere ne rr rrr eee c eee di Africa, -------oe ee en nn nee nn eee ee ee re eee eee eee 1 Asia, ---------9-2-2 en en ne enn ne ere ee ee eee eee eee 8 West Indies and South America,---------------------------------4
Total-----------------------------------------173
The returns received in exchange from these Institutions, up to the Ist of January 1851, are as follows.
Folio and quarto Volumes,----------------------------+--------152 Octavo Volumes, ----------one rere ne nr en ee een eee ee --~-138 Parts of volumes and tracts in quarto and octavo,-----------------608
Total --------------------------------+--------878
From some of the above mentioned Institutions, no returns have yet bi received. These will be found marked with an asterisk. From many s marked, however, an exchange is shortly expected, while from shee such as Libraries, which publish no transactions, nothing can be looked for. Even here, however, duplicate volumes, as has already happened in several instances, will occasionally be transmitted. Many of the Universities on the continent have forwarded the theses of their graduates, and other miscellanea. It must also be observed, that the period at which it was found possible conveniently to transmit volume I. of Smithsonian Contributions to France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, has been so recent as to render the reception of any returns up to the present date impossible.
It may be proper to add, that suitable occasions of forwarding to some of the above mentioned societies, have not yet occurred, although shortly expected. This is the case in regard to some of the Asiatic societies, the Egyptian society of Grand Cairo, and those of the West Indies and South America.

<<<Page: 59>>>

fy 78
APPENDIX No II.
New York, December 2, 1850.
My Dear Sm: The ship “ Brewster’’ has just arrived from the Pacific, bringing six monuments in addition to those which I shipped via. San Juan de Nicaragua, for the Institution, and which I have directed to be immediately forwarded to Washington. I shall avail myself of the opportunity afforded by my proposed visit to the Capital in January next, to number and catalogue both these and the other Central American relics which I have already sent. In the meantime, I am unable to refer to the individual figures and objects in an intelligible manner. I may nevertheless observe that the finer specimens of Aboriginal Art, which I discovered in Nicaragua, were of too large size to be removed under. present circurnstances. Should the steamers which have been sent out succeed in ascending the San Juan, and entering lake Nicaragua, some of the monuments which exist on the islands in that lake, might be obtained without much difheulty, and would constitute very interesting and important features in the proposed Smithsonian collection of American antiquities. Two of the statues which I have sent to the Institution, one from the island of Zapatero, in lake Nicaragua, where once existed one of the most imposing aboriginal temples of the country. Here, amongst the ruins of the teocalda or high places of the former inhabitants, I found fifteen entire statues, besides the fragments of many others; several broken sacrificial stones, &c. I was unable to remove but two of the smallest and rudest, but I have accurate drawings ofall. The largest statue amongst those which I have sent you, and which is carved in black basalt, was obtained from the island of Momotombita, in lake Managua, where there seems also to have been a temple or sacred place. The figure with the sphynx like head dress is also from the same locality, whence a great number of sculptures have been taken at various times, and planted at the corners of the streets in the towns, or sent abroad. Within the recollection of persons now living, there were some twenty or thirty of these figures existing at one place on the island, arranged in the form of a square, the faces looking inward. One or two of the other statues were dug up for me by the Indians of the Pueblo of Subtiaba near Leon, having been buried for a great number of years, and the locality carefully concealed. They are somewhat mutilated, showing in their broken features, the zeal of the priests who followed in the armies of Gil Gonzalez de Avila and Cordova. A small group of these monuments exists in the depths of the forest midway between Leon and the Pacific, which is still secretly visited by the Indians, for the performance of dances and other rites pertaining to their primitive religion.
These monuments, but particularly those which exist in and around lake Nicaragua, and which, as works of art, are superior to those found elsewhere, are of high value in an archeological point of view, because they furnish conclusive collateral evidence of the truth of the statement of Oviedo, (who visited Nicaragua in 1529,) that a large part of the inhabitants of the country were Mexicans, i.e. of the same stock with the Aztecs and the other nations inhabiting the valley of Anahuac. I was

<<<Page: 60>>>

able at the first glance, to recognize in some of these statues, the representations of several of the gods of the Mexican Pantheon. Amon these was Tlalocthe, God of Rain, and the second of the Aztec Triad, corresponding in his essential attributes with Vishun of the Hindu Mythology.
The small figure resembling some animal cowchant was, until very recently, preserved on a remarkable rock on the side of the volcano of Omatepec, and regarded with high veneration by the Indians. It was only after many years of search that the priests were able to find and remove it. The granitic vase, distinguished by the ornaments, called grecques by Humboldt, (and which characterize the ruins at Mitla in Mexico,) was dug up near the city of Nicaragua. The spot had been a cemetery of the ancient inhabitants. Another relic of the same material, and with a like style of ornament, accompanies the vase, and was found in the same neighborhood. It seems to have been designed as a pedestal for a small Statue.
I have several of the funereal vases of the ancient inhabitants, in which the bones and ashes of the dead were packed after the decomposition of the flesh or after burning. It is a singular fact that all these vases were modelled after the human skull. I will send these as soon as the drawings of them are finished.
I may mention that the largest and most elaborate monuments which fell under my notice in Nicaragua, exist in the little island of Pensacola, near the base of the extinct voleano of Momobacho. ‘They weigh a number of tons each, and are distinguished as being wrought from blocks of sand stone, a material which is not found on the island, nor, so far as I could learn, within many miles of it, on the main land.
I shall be happy to contribute whatever monuments of the past, or relics of aboriginal art which I possess, or may hereafter collect, towards forming a National Archeological Museum, under the single stipulation that they shall have a specific place assigned them in the Institution, and that my classification when finally made, shall not be disturbed. You know that I have long cherished the plan of forming a grand collection, which should illustrate the arts of the aboriginies of every part of the continent, but more particularly of our own country. Small and detached collections, such as individuals may be able to form, can serve no good purpose in the way of comparison and mutual illustration, and are always hable to be destroyed by accident, or dispersed, and, piece by piece, irretrievably lost, and | am sure, when it comes to be known that a place has been set apart for these things in the Smithsonian Institution, most persons possessing collections would not hesitate to surrender them to augment the central stock. And if our public agents in foreign countries, our army and naval officers in frontier or foreign service, and our traders generally residing abroad, were properly informed that a collection of this kind was going on, and that the necessary cost of procuring and transmitting monuments or relics of interest would be reimbursed them ; if this were done, I feel sure that an American Archeological Museum, worthy of our age and country, would soon grow up. It is a fact not at all creditable to us, that we have no public collection of this kind worthy to be mentioned, in the United States, while some of the museums of Europe are really rich in relics of aboriginal American art. M. de Longperier, conservateur des Antiquites of the Louvre, has recently published a catalogue of American-antiquities,

<<<Page: 61>>>

dy) 80
contained in that museum, extending over one hundred and thirty octavo pages, and relating to nearly a thousand specimens, some of them of great interest and value. The fact carries its own application with it. Craving your indulgence for this rambling letter, I am sir, your obedient servant, E. GEO. SQUIER. Professor JosEpH Henry, Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington.
APPENDIX—No. III.
Hon. Epwarp Everett, of Cambridge,
Cuarves Forsom, Esq., Librarian of the Boston Atheneum,
Grorce Livermore, Hsq., of Boston,
Josrpu G. Cocswetx, Esq., Superintendent of the Astor Library, N. York, S. F. Haven, Esq., Librarian of the American Antiquarian Society, and
Rev. Epwarp E. Hate, of Worcester. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
August 16, 1850.
Dear Sir: The Smithsonian Institution desirous of facilitating research in literature and science and of thus aiding in the increase and diffusion of knowledge, has resolved to form a general catalogue of the various libraries in the United States, and I submit to you for examination the plans proposed by Professor Jewett, Librarian of the Institution, for accomplishing this object.
First, A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate titles in a uniform style.
Second, A set of general rules to be recommended for adoption by the different libraries of the United States in the preparation of their catalogues.
Professor Jewett will present to you his plans in person, and I beg leave in behalf of the Executive Committee of the Institution to request that you will give this subject that attention which its importance demands and report :
First—The practicability of the plan presented.
Second—On the propriety of adopting the rules proposed.
You will also confer a favor on the Institution by giving any suggestions with regard to the general proposition of forming a catalogue of all the libraries in this country.
I remain respectfully, your obedient servant, JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 62>>>

The undersigned were requested in the month of August last, by a letter from Professor Henry, written on behalf of the Executive Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, to take into consideration the subject of a General Catalogue of the public libraries of the United States, proposed to be formed under the auspices of the said Institution, and more especially the plan proposed by Professor Jewett, Librarian of the Institution, for accomplishing that object.
Having consented to act as Commissioners for the above named purpose, the subscribers had several interviews with Professor Jewett, in the months of September and October, at which he submitted to them 1. A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate movable
titles of the books contained in them, and 2. A set of general rules to be recommended for adoption by the different
public libraries in the United States, in the preparation of their catalogues.
Professor Jewett’s plan for stereotyping titles on separate plates is unfolded at considerable length, in a paper read by him, in the month of August last, at the annual meeting of the American Agsociation for: the Advancement of Science, held at ‘New Haven. This paper was published in the Boston Traveller for the 26th of September. It is herewith subjoined, and the undersigned request that it may be considered as a part of their report.*
For a full view of the advantages, both economical and literary, anticipated from the adoption of Professor Jewett’s plan, the undersigned would refer to the valuable and interesting paper just named. They will allude briefly to a portion of these advantages.
The most important of them, perhaps, will be the economy of time, labor, and expense, ata for the preparation of a new edition of a catalogue, to include the books added since a former edition was published. On Professor Jewett’s s plan, when the catalogue of a library is published, it will be necessary to strike off only so many copies, as are needed for present use. When the additions to the library have become so considerable as to make another edition of the catalogue desirable, or in lieu thereof, a supplementary catalogue, (always an unsatisfactory and embarrassing appendage,) the new titles only will be stereotyped and inserted in their proper places among the former titles, all the titles being on mo-
vable plates. The pages of the new edition will thus be made up with convenience, and every book in the library will stand in its proper place in the catalogue. This process will be repeated as often as the growth of the library may make it necessary.
In this way, not only will the plates used in a former edition, be available for each subsequent edition, but when the plan is fairly and extensively in operation, most of the titles of books added to any given library of
* This paper is substantially re-printed in the report of the Librarian for the present year.
Mis.—6.

<<<Page: 63>>>

82 ;
whose catalogue a new edition is required, will, in the meantime, have been
cast for some other catalogue, and thus occasion no new charge for any
subsequent use, as far as ‘the expense of casting the plates is concerned.
The infant state and the prospective rapid increase of the public libraries
in the United States, as well as the frequent founding of new hbraries, give reat interest to this feature of the plan.
Another advantage of the proposed plan would be of the following nature: The libraries in any country, (to some extent, indeed in all countries,) consist partly of the same books, Professor Jewett states, that in the catalogues of the public libraries of the United States, possessed by the Smithsonian Institution, there are embraced at least ite hundred and fifty thousand titles. He estimates, however, after a laborious comparison, that among these there will not be found more than one hundred and fifty thousand different titles. It follows, that, if the plan proposed had been applied to the publication of these catalogues, two thirds of the expense of printing them, as far as the cost of plates is concerned, would have been saved by incurring the extra expense of stereotyping the remaining third according to this plan. ‘The economy to each particular library, in the expense of plates for its catalogue, wi Il be in proportion to the number
of books which it may contain in common with any other library, whose catalogue has been already stereotyped on this plan. The title of the same book, in the same edition, will of course be cast but once, and will thenceforward serve for the catalogue of every library possessing that book, which may enter into the arrangement.
A third advantage resulting from “this plan will be the facility with which a classed ¢ catalogue, either of a whole library or any department of it, might be furnished at short notice, without the expense of writing out the titles or of casting new plates, but by the simple indication of the selected titles, in'the margin of a printed alphabetical catalogue.
Finally, the plan of necessity, requires, that the titles of ‘the books i in the libraries, included in the arrangement, should be given on uniform principles and ‘according to fixed rules } an object of no small importance to those who consult them.
These and other incidental advantages, which would result from the adoption of his plan of separate stereotype plates for the titles of books in public libraries, are pointed out by Professor Jewett in the memoir above referred to, and the undersigned are of opimion that he has not overrated their importance. In propor tion as the plan is concurred in by the publie institutions and individuals possessing valuable collections of books, the preparation of a general catalogue of all the hbraries in the country becomes practicable, accompanied by references from which it would appear in what library or libraries any particular book is contained.
The undersioned became satisfied, in the course of their conferences with Professor Jewett, that the plan in all its parts is practicable. In connection with the explanation of its mechanical execution, specimens of stereotype plates of separate titles, made up into pages, were submitted to them in common type metal, in electroty pe, and in a newly invented composition, the use of which, it is thought by its inventor, wauld be attended with great economy in the cost of plates. The undersigned examined these specimens with much gratification and interest, but they did not feel themselves competent from their limited opportunities of enquiry, nor did they regard it as falling within their province, to form an opinon

<<<Page: 64>>>

on the comparative merits of these processes. They feel satisfied that no important mechanical difficulty is to be apprehended in carrying the plan into full effect.
A majority of the undersigned devoted themselves for several successive meetings to the careful consideration of the set of rules submitted to them by Professor Jewett, for the uniform preparation of the titles of books. This is a subject which has of late received much attention from bibliographers, and is of great importance in the formation of the catalogues of public libraries. Professor Jewett’s rules combine the results of the experience of those who have given their attention to the subject in the principal libraries of Europe, especially of the British Museum, together with the fruits of his own experience and study. These rules appeared to the undersigned to be drawn up with judgment and care. A few amendments were recommended by the undersigned, and a few additions proposed, but they are prepared to signify their approval of the system substantially as submitted to them. It is contained, as amended by the undersigned, in conference with Professor Jewett, in the paper marked B,* which they beg leave also to make a part of their report.
In order that a beginning may be made in the execution of the plan, under circumstances highly favorable to its success, the undersigned take the liberty of suggesting, that it would be advisable for the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to obtain the requisite authority to prepare a catalogue of the library of Congress on the above described plan. A catalogue of this library is now very much wanted. Originally constructed on a defective plan, and continued by the publication of a large number of supplements, it is now almost useless; and as the library increases, it becomes daily more so. The preparation of an alphabetieal catalogue has in this way become a matter of absolute necessity for the library itself; while it affords the best opportunity for commencing an arrangement by which the various libraries of the country will be brought into a mutually beneficial connexion with each other, on the plan proposed by Professor Jewett.
The undersigned consider the permanent superintendence of this plan to be an object entirely within the province of the Smithsonian Institution. They are satisfied that it will tend both to the increase and the diffusion of knowledge, and they therefore hope that the sanction of the Regents and of Congress will be given to the undertaking.
(Signed,) EDWARD EVERETT, JOSEPH G. COGSWELL. CHARLES FOLSOM, SAMUEL F. HAVEN, EDWARD E. HALE, GEORGE LIVERMORE. Boston, 26th October, 1850.
* These rules, with copious explanations and examples, will soon be published in a pamphiet form. It was found impossible to prepare them to be printed with the present report.

<<<Page: 65>>>

fay 84
APPENDIX — No. IV.
As already mentioned, Mr. Culbertson went from St. Louis to St. Josephs in a steamboat. He there, with his brother, Alexander Culbertson, Esq., took a carriage, and aceompanied by some attendants proceeded to Fort Pierre, along the eastern bank of the Missouri. His narrative, as herewith presented, commences at a point some miles below Fort Pierre. With reference to the style of the narrative it should be recollected that the facts were noted down on the spot, without any intention of publication. ]
Saturday, April 27, 11 2. M.—Yesterday was an exceedingly unpleasant day; we founda violent north wind blowing in the morning, nevertheless, as soon as breakfast was over, we were off on the cheerless prairie. We saw but little wood; the road was hilly and ponds frequent. About ten o’clock, we crossed a small stream that gave us some trouble on account of the deep mud; but cold as the day was, the Indians waded through without hesitation. About twelve o’clock we came to a place where the land was cut up into steep hills and deep ravines, the latter containing a little scrubby timber. At one o’clock we reached the spot where the Indians had confidently expected to meet their chief, Old Eagle, who had been there hunting buffalo, but he was not to be found. The Indians appeared much disappointed and looked very sad. They had left a good place for hunting buffalo, and had come here where there were apparently none.
There was every appearance of a violent snow-storm, but bad as our situation was, we were thankful that it was no worse ; had these indications overtaken us the night before, when there was not a stick of wood within miles, we might well have been filled with apprehension, but here we had wood, w ater and grass, and w ere encamped in a ravine, well sheltered from the storm. About eight o’clock we retired to our beds i in the waggon, anticipating a cheerless day of inactivity on the morrow. We were, however, agreeably disappointed, and at about four o’clock, I was awakened by the bustle of preparation for departure.
We started at half-past five o’clock, and soon crossed Choutain creek, the small stream on which we had encamped. Our course during the day, after we left the creek, was over level prairie, with no timber in sight or water to be found, though buffalo were abundant. I forgot to mention that just as we were leaving athe river A’Jacques, a very large wolf, of pure white color, a beautiful animal, came walking leisurely towards us. A. shot at it, but missed, when it scampsred off.

<<<Page: 66>>>

boat — and we expected to get to the houses that night, but when the boat was completed it was a proof of the old adage — the more haste, the less speed — the boat would not answer the purpose. We therefore contented ourselves to again spend another night in our sleeping room, the wagon. Many of the Indians stayed all night ; and as I watched their countenances around the fire, I was struck with the fact, that the circle of faces presented the same variety as to she die intelligence, &c., as would be exhibited by an equal number of civilized men—in none did I notice the expression of ferocity. One young man in particular , attracted my notice } he had a very intellectual expression and stood by himself with the marks of deep thought on his countenance—his appearance interested me greatly and at once suggested to me my friend C. W. H. of Princeton, but at the same moment my eye rested on a common feather, picked up probably on the prairie, stuc k in his hair for ornament, and I could not refrain from smiling at the ridiculous contrast between my intelligent young friend and the thoughtful Indian. Poor fellow! perhaps if he had an opportunity for study he would ornament his head with something more honorable than that which then pleased his fancy.
Monday, May 6.—Every thing was crossed safely over the river, and by evening we were all snugly fixed | at Randell’s. The Indians had bought all our horses that were for s ale; and as they came to the houses with us, a feast was prepared for them, with which they all appeared well satisfied. A feast tor the Indians is a very simple affair—a little coffee and gammon, or mush served in the simplest style is sufficient. There were “sixty or seventy gathered on this occasion; before the food was ready they came in and went out, and sat talking , joking and passing around the pipe, just as a company of whites would spend their time while waiting for the announcement of dinner.
When ail was prepared, two kettles were placed in the middle of the floor, and each individual was furnished with a pan of some kind to eat from, but they had no spoons or anything to answer the same purpose. A. then made quite a long speech, not however, standing up, but sitting on a bench with his hat on his head and a pipe in his mouth. One of the old men then arose, shook hands with him, resumed his seat on the floor and made quite a long and animated speech. I could not understand a word of it, but was much interested by his earnest manner. Both of the speeches were frequently interrupted by cries of ‘how, how,” corresponding, I suppose to our “‘ hear, hear,”’ indicating approbation. One of their number then volunteered to serve the dinner. He first gave out the coffee to each his portion which was received with a ‘‘ how,” thank you. Then the gammon was served in the same way, and eaten forth the dishes to the great risk, as I thought, of the waste and throat. When this was going on Randell spoke, and with great animation. [ was surprised—he is a Canadian Frenchman, and a common man but he “talked like a lawyer,’’ with great earnestness and animation. Afterwards the Indians gradually dispersed, and we sat down to a supper of coffee, bangs (corn cakes,) and honey ; for the whites do not generally eat when they give a feast to the Budians. T could not but think how amusing it would be to my friends at home to see us enjoying this feast. We had no forks and had to use the knives we carried in out belts.
In the morning we were off about half-past six o’clock, and hoped te

<<<Page: 67>>>

(ui 88
reach Fort Pierre on Friday evening, but it was beyond our power. Our men had been furnished with Indian horses and we had put some other mules into the cart, giving our mules their old place in the buggy. The road was good and well marked as it is much traveled passing over rolling prairie. Timber and water were scarce. The wind blew quite violently which increased the fatigue of traveling. About two o’clock we stopped for dinner on a high hill where we found plenty of wood left by some Indians. After dinner the wind made the traveling so unpleasant that we encamped early in a ravine, through which ran a small stream called the Chain of Rocks, from the fact of a ridge of rocks extending across the Missouri at its mouth. The sides of this ravine were covered with banks of snow six and ten feet deep. In the morning we made an early start with a clear sky and bright sun; the wind did not seem to be unusually violent, but 1 in less than an hour it became so.
About ten o’clock we reached La Chapelle creek, almost worn out with fatigue. We all agreed that of all our bad days, this had been the worst. But we found good restoratives in plenty of hot coffee and meat, and a rest of a few hours made us all again in a condition for traveling. The afternoon proved pleasant and we soon reached Medicine creek which was fordable; we passed on and about seven o’clock found a good camping ground at the foot of an island some miles below the fort. We were off before sunrise, and at seven o’clock on the, morning of Saturday, May 4, we I had the pleasure of halting opposite F ort Pierre.
The boat could not come over for us at once, and so we had something to eat by way of variety, and waited, not very patiently, for it. About twelve o'clock it reached us, and as the wind was blowing, we were cordelled up about a mile, ina then crossed and landed at the fort gate. The cannon and guns were fired in honor of the ‘‘ Boss,”’ and we were received with great kindness. I was glad to stop; we had been forty-five days coming from St. Louis, and our trip had been a tedious one. A’s. quarters are very comfortable and we were put in better condition here than we had been for some days. The Indians soon invited A. to a dog feast, but he was too tired to go; however, they at nght brought over to him some of the meat and had a talk with him. I was too fatigued to attend, but some of the meat was given me, which I thought tasted strongly of dog. Yesterday was Sunday, and was truly a day of rest. This morning I feel very well, and am preparing for a start to-morrow for the Mauvaise Terre.
Tuesday, May 7.—This morning at seven o’clock I started from Fort Pierre, for the Mauvaise Terre or Bad Lands of White river. Our company consists of three—young M‘Kenzie, myself and one of the men from the Fort. The whole equipment is at the cost of A. We are well furnished with provisions for about two weeks, and have three mules all of which are the worse for wear, but they are the best we could get, as the Indians have bought up all the best horses and mules and are clamorous for more. We had a pleasant morning for our start, although it was a little hazy. By ten o’clock we had reached Willow creek, eight miles from the Fort, and there we dined. After this we moved off, expecting to go thirteen miles further, but we found our mules scarcely strong enough for the trip, and stopped after traveling eight miles; I hope to reach Bear creek, our destination, on Saturday, but fear that we shall not be able ;

<<<Page: 68>>>

8y fae
however, I find that to take all things patiently is the best way to get along, and so | shall do so.
The face of the country along the route of to-day has been hilly; it is nearly all barren rolling prairie, scarce of water and timber, and having the soil strongly impregnated with cies I understand this to be. the cause of the white appearance I here so often noticed; it looks lke lime scattered over the ground, and has been very abundant to day. Not so much gravel, nor so many stones as on the other side of the Missouri. Mr. M‘Kenzie has had great opportunity for learning the customs and habits of the Indians. He told me today, that while they have no priests nor regular religious system, they all worship something—they offer sacrifices of cloth and other articles to the Great Spirit, and this is done by simply casting them into the prairies with some form of prayer I suppose. Scarlet cloth is generally preferred for this, also calico with red in it, and sheet iron kettles that have not been used. The Gros Ventres and Assiniboines are mere regular in this than the other tribes; they offer great sacrifices every spring, at the time of the first rain which is accompanied with thunder and lhightning. Besides the worship of the Great Spirit, they all have something else to worship—a pipe stem, cap, feather or whatever suits their fancy.
The tribes along the Missouri have no chiefs; those who have authority amongst them gain it by their valor in war, their skill in stealing horses, and the number of their kindred. They hav: e authority only because they are feared, and if accidents removes this prop, they fall. This is often the case, as I have been told by several familiar with all the Missouri tribes. ‘They make frequent war parties, but in my opinion their bravery is overrated; they do not fight openly and boldly as the whites, but their great object is to surprise. M‘Kenzie told me of ‘one party of Sioux, nine hundred strong, who went to war against the Gros Ventres and returned, having pikdered only one little boy, whom they caught straying from thie village. Another party had several of their number taken prisoners and burnt before their eyes, and, instead of revenging the death of their friend, they zeturned crying, and were laughed at, when they got home. There are about 600 lodges of the Y anktonians, and about four hundred of the Tetons.
Wednesday, May 8.—We are encamped this evening on the Sheepoi river about forty-four miles from the Fort; our old mules have done better to-day than I expected, as they have brought us thus far, although they gave out again this afternoon. The road today has been very hilly me the land barren. Animals are scarce—we have not seen any but a single wolf since we left, and a few small birds; one of the latter is_ bee utiful in shape and plumage. It is a small snow bird, white in winter, but now of a dove color with some white.
I picked up to-day quite a number of small pieces of petrified wood which were lying in the road. The hills thus far have not been covered with stones and rocks as they were across the river; I passed but one hill to-day on which were stones scattered over the surface, and they seemed to have been made by the breaking of large rocks; the pieces were about the size of those for turnpike roads. Wood has Been found more abundant than I expected from the account given me of its scarcity ; it is searce but still enough is found for a fire every ten miles, water isalso abundant now, but probably not so in the summer. We dined. today at Big Hole creek,
at present containing plenty of good water, but in summer it only a large hole filled with water.

<<<Page: 69>>>

faq 90
Last night we had a good deal of talk around our fire about the Black Hills. Joe, an experienced hunter tells me that they are covered with the finest pine timber, so thick that a person on horseback cannot pass through it in some places. There is an abundance of fine water but no fish; plenty of all kinds of game. Grizly bears are found there sometimes in bands, like buffalo; they live on fruit, flesh and ants ; to get these they turn over the largest logs and eat them off the under side. He never knew a man to kill one with young, and less is known to the hunter about the time of their breeding, than about that of any other animal in this section. They are not found north of the Missouri.
acres, just after we started, but I judge them to be lazy fellows, as but two appeared to be stirring, although the sun was then up. I found several good skulls of these animals, and a number of jaw bones which I preserved. Poor fellows! they had been shot and thie to rot at their own doors. After breakfast I got several specimens of a plant growing abundantly on the green bank at the edge of the water. I also prepared some wood for the pins of my specimens ‘of insects of which I have a few. We then started, and again arose to a level prairie which we had with only a few hills as far as Bull creek, about nine miles. Long before reaching this stream, I had my first view of the Bad Lands; a bute arose perpendicular out of the plain very irregular 1 in its Shape; I viewed it with a great deal of interest, as being the first of that remarkable ground which I had come so farsto see.
We e reached Bull creek about two o *clock, and there gave the mules some rest. Just before reaching it, Joe killed an antelope, of which we had seen several. We packed the hams and shoulders to camp. While there, M’Kenzie prepared the skull of a curlew, which Joe had killed in the morning; he also partially prepared the skull of the antelope. The stream was dry, having water only in a few holes; it was approached by a long descent, and the banks wé re very much washed. ‘There was a sandy soil of about five feet, then strata of stones and gravel of about three feet, then another deposit of a light yellow clay. I ‘took out a small piece of Wood from a spot about five feet under the surface.
We left Bull creek about three o’clock, and moved along very slowly, as it was very Warm and we all felt lazy. The road now lay over hills which became more steep and frequent as we approached the Bad Lands. These occasionally appeared in the distance, and never before did 1 see anything that so resembled a large city ; so complete was this deception that I could

<<<Page: 70>>>

mae 92
point out the public buildings; one appeared to have a large dome which might be the town hall; another, a large angular, cone-shape top, which I would suggest the Gani house or some magnificent building for public purposes ; * then would : appear a row of palaces, great in number and superb in all their arrangements. Indeed the thought frequently occurred as we rode along, that at a distance, this portion of the ground looked like a city of palaces; every thing arranged upon the grandest scale and adapted for the habitation, not of pigmies, such as now inhabit the earth, but of giants, such as Sarl be fit to rule over the ponderous animals whose remains are still found there. Again and again, as from different positions these hills came in sight, would such thoughts arise in my mind, and I could almost fancy, that upon the wind would occasionally be borne, the din and bustle of the immense city.
The mind could not remain with the present; it must range back to the earliest period, and ask whence were these things ? ? but soon a nearer view would destroy all illusion and fancy would have! to give place to fact, and allow these self-created cities to be mere sand hills. But sand hills as they are, they are wonderful and must excite the greatest interest in the scientific coer I wish that we had with us a company of men of this kind prepared for a thorough exploration, as my only hope is to be an humble ploneer, and to be the means of prompting others more able to engage in the work. Our route lay to the west of the Lands, and away in the distance, still further west, appeared a dim blue outline which marked the Black hills; these are distant about two days march.
The Saat from Fort Pierre is in a direction nearly due west, until about Pinot’s spring, where it takes a general direction of south by west As it approaches Sage creek, however, it becomes very serpentine, for so great is the descent from the plains to the water level here, that the road must follow all the windings of the ridge to get down to it.
The tops of the highest butes in the Bad Land appeared to be about on a level with the plain, ‘but I took no exact observation. About five o ’clock, we came near to Sage creek and entered on the Bad Lands; here it is merely a great number of small hills of all shapes thrown together in great confusion and very barren. In thinking of how these lands w ere formed, it occurred to me very forcibly, that it was by some convulsion of meee by which the ground sunk—the hills were not elevated, but were left so by the depression of the surrounding land. ‘This opinion appears to be confirmed by the fact, that the highest butes have on their tops, prairie land covered with vegetation, such as the plain beyond the Bad Lands; then again, the formation of one of the first hills over which the road passes, confirms it; the hill is very steep on both sides and ranges nearly north and south, I think ; it is just about long enough for a good road) and is covered as nile as aS bottom of any stream arith gravel and small stones, such as are found in the beds of streams here; at each end of this little hill stand two butes, one very slightly elevated, between which the road passes, and just opposite and east of the right hand one, is another like them, the tops of all of which are nearly level, and as well as I could observe, covered with the same kind of small stones as cover the road and just as thick; the sides of these small butes are perpendicular, and the strata of clay they ex~ hibit are horizontal, showing that they have not been distributed by any up-heaving force.
This same thing is true of a great many of the hills; the strata are per

<<<Page: 71>>>

93 [oe
fectly horizontal. I noticed one in which the hill appears to have sunk, leaving the middle of it rising up as a peak, twenty or thirty feet high, and in this peak the strata are horizontal. It is true, that there are a oreat many peaked hills with inclined sides, but throughout there are many With horizontal strata of clay ; giving evidence that they had been left there and not formed by upheaval. On Monday morning I hope to reach the petrifactions.
Tuesday, May 14.—Yesterday I visited the Bad Lands, but did not get to camp until it was too late to record the events of the day. We had encamped during Sunday, on Sage creek, nine miles from Bear river; in the morning we were off early, and took breakfast at Bear river. The road from Sage creek winds considerably at first, over some very steep hills. This creek is one of the most crooked streams I ever saw; its banks are almost perpendicular, and from twenty to thirty feet high. 1 observed in seyeral places in the bank, a thick stratum of slate about twenty feet below the surface of the ground; the water is briny and leaves a deposit of salt on the stones; it, as all the other streams along the route contains at present, no running water ; the clay im the bottom i is nearly pure white, and so eiean 3 is the water, that at first 1t seemed muddy from the clay at the bottom; when the water in these pools was moved by a gentle breeze, the shadows on the bottom were most beautiful.
A few miles from the creek we passed over some hills that gave evidence of having experienced the most violent convulsions ; these, unlike those seen on Satunday , appeared to have been upheaved and to have experienced the action of fire; one place suggested the idea of a volcanic crater ; it-was a shght hollow and contained a number of small rocks different from any around it; a little above, the hills were of white sand, and ome was covered with small rounded red stones.
From these hills we ascended to a prairie, the most level that [ have seen; for miles the eye could detect scarcely the least rise, and it gave not the smallest evidence of the convulsions that probably raged so near it. This level prarie continued with but a single interruption till we reached the hills of Bear creek. The descent to this is by a very steep hill and beyond it another level—a steep takes us to another level beyond. All along this route the Black hills are distinctly seen in the distance, and this side of “them the woods of Shazer river. We encamped on Bear river near a spring, which is always anxiously looked for by travelers through this country. Ei shared in this anxiety and expected to see a fine flowing fountain. I was disappointed to find only three small holes in the side of the hill, but was again agreeably surprised to find cool, delightful sand water. It is the only water I have really relished for a long while, except perhaps that of the Missouri.
Immediately after breakfast, we left our baggage and started for the point which I had long hoped to reach ; my anxiety was great to see the wonders of which I had heard so much. “A rapid ride over a good road, soon brought us to the edge of the descent ; this was steep but even, and ina few minutes we were on the level below; nothing remarkable appeared here; in about half an hour we reached the Bad Lands themselves and my interest was intense.
The road now was over the deposite of yellowish white clay, so hardened by the sun as scarcely to be impressed by the hoofs of the mules or by the wheel of the buggy—it was very smooth; we now passed by a number

<<<Page: 72>>>

fae ; 94
of small spots of ground from one to five feet above the level of this clay, having grass on their tops like those on the prairies above ; their sides were perpendicular, and having fallen down by the action of the weather, the horizontal strata of sand and clay were exposed. We soon reached the place where petrifactions most abound. I got out and looked around for them ; I was shown a number of ugly dark red, unshapen masses—these, my g guide told me were petrified turtles, their shells being destroyed by the action of the sun, and they are crumbling to pieces. The ground i in many places is thickly covered aye: small lumps, the broken remains of turtles, which a few years ago were perfect. I felt disappointed, for I had expected to see many fine specimens of petrifactions of different animals. I started however, on a voyage of discovery around this pond‘Shaped basin, and was shown a large turtle almost perfect, though broken in two pieces, its shell partly remained. This we secured as part of our treasure.
There were three of us and we took different directions. I found everywhere the remains of turtles in different stages of preservation, none perfect however. I picked up a number of pieces of bone, but found no teeth nor any heads. ‘This was discouraging, but on my retnrn to. the buggy, I saw that one of the men had brought an excellently preserved hee ad * of about the size of that of a large bear ; he had found also several other gcod specimens. When I ascertained the locality of these petrifactions to be so circumscribed, I hastened to finish collecting in one day, and although the sun was broiling hot, and we had no water except a very little brought with us to cook, we went, and by evening we had made quite a good examination of his) immediate locality ; we had about half a bushel of small articles, a number of excellent teeth and jaw bones, several good heads and a couple of pretty good small turtles, besides the large one before mentioned. These I thought as many as my means of transportation would allow. I have since found them to be more, for they are very heavy. I then filled a small bag with the clay, and the fragments of petrified ‘anal and started with M’ Kenzie for the top of one of the highest hills. ‘To gain this was no small matter, as the path was very steep and mostly very narrow ; at length we reached it, and a most magnificent landscape rewarded our labor. The bute we ascended had on its top a level prairie of about twenty acres ; it was covered with grass and as near as I could judge of the same level as those beyond the Lands.
These prairies on the butes, and they are on nearly every one, are the ranges of the Big Horn (Ovis Americana); they love to roam around the very brink and alone the steep sides, and seem to think themselves secure in their heights. We judged this bute to be about two hundred feet high, and nearly all the aha are the same. In every direction except towards the prairie we could see these great hills towering above the plain below, having their sides washed into picturesque shapes; the lower elevations looked beautiful with their carpet of grass and scattered about through the hard white clay surtace, and this itself appeared almost like water at the height where we stood. Away to the south appeared the hill on which is the Ash spring, and near it several high hills which looked lke the old towers that are perched on the hills of the Rhine; in every direction this same palace-like appearance was exhibited by the hills in the distance.
But how shall I convey a correct idea of these lands? this question has
* A new species of fossil Rhinoceros,—S. F. B.

<<<Page: 73>>>

95 ho« (EA
octurred to me often to-day ; my own conception of them were very different from the general descriptions I had heard, and I fear that I must likewise fail in describing them to others. If you imagine an extensive tract of perfectly level land, and suppose that the whole sinks about two hundred feet except some large lots, every few hundred feet apart, you will have some idea of what was probably the original appearance of these lands; you must suppose also a number, some very small and some very large, to sink not so much as two hundred feet, but near it; on all these the highest and the lowest, the level prairie soil remains, but below these lowest a few feet, a yellowish clay soil takes its place. In the course of time the rains wash the original perpendicular sides into various shapes still steep, and partaking of the spirit of the Gothic style of architecture. From some the original soil is washed entirely away, and they stand at intervals with whitened sides and rounding top amongst their higher and more fortunate neighbors. Fancy yourself on the hottest day in summer, in the hottest spot of such a place without water, without an animal, and scarcely an insect astir, without a single flower to speak pleasant things to the eye, and you will have some idea of the utter loneliness of the Bad Lands. It appears to me quite certain that sheht excavations in some of these hills would develope many very perfect specimens; many of those now discovered on and near the surface, most probably have been washed out by the rains and when exposed for some time they crumble to pieces, at least the petrified turtles do so.
1 was much surprised to see, running through different parts of the clay surface, vertical strata of a singular looking substance, something like melted glass and almost transparent; the strata is about one fourth of an inch in thickness and do not lie in a series of strata, but between each stratum there are several inches of the clay and they protrude several inches above the clay, while in many places the surface is covered with small pieces, as though injected strata had been broken up. Specimens of these strata were secured.
flesh but a profitable one to the spirit, and I do not in the least regret having made it; my only regret is that my limited means did not permit me to go prepared for a more thorough exploration.
Tuesday, May 21.— Fatigued as I was from my late trip, the rest at the fort has been very acceptable. Sunday was a quiet, pleasant day, but I did not do much reading as I did not feel very well, and in the evening had a severe attack of illness. On Monday morning I felt disinclined to move about; so I busied myself for a part of the morning in marking what specimens [ have here. This so fatigued me, that I took a long sleep. In the evening the clouds threatened a storm, but although there was considerable thunder and lightning, there was, to our regret, scarcely any rain, which is very much needed for the farms which are beginning to be cultivated. But everything appears to indicate a very dry and hot season. The river has fallen about five feet while I have been away, and at the present stage of water the expected steamboat of the Fur Company could scarcely get up: however the June rise from the mountains will probably make it high enough.
The weather has been warm for some days, and should a rain come I shall be able to make a good botanical collection, but as it now is, all the flowers are very backward. [I have found several different plants along the route and the same near the fort. One delicate purple flower reminded me » of the beautiful Virginian cowslip which was plenty about Clifton ; another I think, is a species of wild pea; another is a modest little yellow violet, and another appears to be a white variety of the purple one first mentioned ; it resembles it in everything but the color of the petals, and these are pure white ; the specimen I received is the only one I have seen.
Yesterday a party started out on a buffalo hunt across the Missouri, but I preferred staying in the fort. This morning A. and I took a ride on horseback four miles up the river, over a pleasant, level road, and passed through a prairie-dog village, but found the canine inhabitants very tiwid.
Thursday May 23.—This morning I arose about 5 o’clock and found the earth much refreshed by a slight rain of last mght. The air was so sultry that we expected another shower but we have been disappointed. The river still continues very low and everything unfavorable for a very high stage of water. Felt better than for several days past ; the fatigues of my long trip are passing away gradually, and some little energy is again creeping into my system. I spoke to M’ Kenzie about getting for me a bow with a quiver of arrows, which he promised to do, and also to start out some young Indians after the little rabbits peculiar to the prairie ; he inquired about a young grey wolf which some Indians had in their possession a few days ago, but to my regret it had been killed ; it would have made a good skeleton.
Having spent an hour in writing, I felt like taking a short botanical excursion and spent about two hours up the river gathering several good specimens of a number of different plants, and also collecting some insects.— Flowers are still rare. On my return I saw a number of beautiful birds which were singing cheerfully ; one of these was a little mocking bird such as we had first heard on Sage Creek ; he perches himself on the topmost twig of a tree and sings away his varied song with great glee. 1 saw also a large and very beautiful species of the thrush. After dinner I rode with my brother to the Little Missouri; the hills in that direction are covered with gravel as across the Missouri. Brought in two botanical specimens. Afterwards went out to the lodges with Gilpin to witness a great game at
' ~ Mis—7.

<<<Page: 74>>>

Cu 98
bandy (ball) by the Indians ; about sixty were engaged in it, old and young, men and boys, and they had a number of bets staked on the result. The whole company appeared to be greatly interested, as the women stood at the lodge doors occasionally cheermg on the game with songs and shouts. — The players, had laid aside all their garments except their clouts, and played with as much zest as a set of school boys, but not with equal fairness ; for some of them carried blankets or robes with which to stop the ball. This, I am told, is a favorite game with the Indians, and sometimes hundreds are engaged in it.
They have another popular game called billiards on which they bet a great deal ; it is entirely different from our game of that name. In the evening walked up to the prairie village with A. to kill a prairie dog, but did not succeed,
Friday, May 24.—Last night I was aroused by the roaring of the wind, blowing violently through my open window, which I immediately closed; soon after my ears were delighted to hear the rain beating heavily on the roof, and I was prepared for the evidence shown this morning of a heavy fall of water.
In the afternoon I took a walk up the river for exercise and to gather flowers ; saw very few, as the day had been cold and cloudy. I found, however, two new specimens and several of the old ones were quite numerous, especially the delicate purple violet. I paid a hasty visit to the prairiedog village and got three sculls, and then hastened home refreshed by the invigorating breeze, and prepared to relish my supper. M’Kenzie was out at the same time and secured three birds for stuffimg—one of them a thrush and two others quite small specimens. °
I noticed on my way home a black bird with his wings marked with white where one species has the beautiful, brilliant red ; also noticed a little bird with its breast of the singular color of a pale pea-green.
After tea Walked out to see another game of bandy ; all were again at it with hearty good will—it appeared strange to see the old chief, Little Bear, with nothing but his breech cloth on, and his bandy in hand as hard at play as the youngest child in the party, and there were some quite young among them. They afforded a pretty sight as they hurried in different directions after the ball in their flesh colored uniform, their scarlet cloth streaming out behind, with an occasional head highly ornamented
One squaw only joined in the play and as she had on an English dress she appeared somewhat out of place. The whole encampment however took great interest in the scene, and every lodge had its collection of squaws and babies looking on with varied interest. It was altogether a wild and cheerful scene, and a good illlustration of one of the national amusements of the Indians. JI would suggest it as a grave question for those who can see farther than their neighbors into a mill stone—whether our school-boys derived this game from the savage, or handed it over to them, or whether both — being ranked under the head of savages may be regarded as having inherited — it from the same original source ?
Two of the voyageurs were engaged in the game, and at the end of | the sport an Indian gave one of them a horse, worth probably twenty | robes; the same person a few days ago received a present of forty robes; ‘fortunate fellow”? would the unitiated exclaim; but an Indian present is like an eastern gift, which is to be returned with compound interest ; in this country one finds it more to his advantage to buy anything he may want

<<<Page: 75>>>

99 p14
from an Indian. A trader just pointed out to me an Indian who had given him a porcupine skin in the winter, and said he, “I have not done paying for it yet though I have given oe the value of seventeen-hundred dollars already.” This system of presents prevails to a great extent here; you would think them the most generous people in the world, and they are really so, but they get paid a great deal in the same way. This refers to the whites as well as to the Indians. Obtained from Mr. Gilpin some valuable statistics about the Sioux nation.
Read Lynch’s work, and was exceedingly struck with the similarity that must exist between the conformation of some parts of that country around the Dead Sea and this ; so striking is the resemblance that a paragraph descriptive of it is almost the same as my language in describing the distant view of the Mauvaise Terre ; it is found at page 330 chapter 15, in the account of an excursion to Masa la, where “‘they beheld in the distance most singular formations resembling a plain covered with towns and villages, marble cities with columns, temples, domes and palaces, which as they (the beholders) advanced faded away and finally resolved themselves into curiously configurated hills, so marked and channelled by the weather, that although aware of the formation, it was difficult to destroy the first illusion.” See pages 91 and 92 of this journal.
I thmk the picture of Masada, facing page 332 might easily pass for a view of one of the sand butes of the Bad Lands. It will certainly be an interesting question for my more learned followers to investsgate, and I hope it may serve to throw some heht on the formations in both districts.
A. mentioned to-day some Mauvaise Terre high up on the Missouri more wonderful than those on White River—he did not know whether petrifactions were found there or not.
Saturday, May 25.— This morning early the clouds were very heavy and indicated a heavy rain but it did not come, although it has been cloudy throughout the day ; just now, however, it appears as if about to begin, and it probably will be a long one. Fire has been very pleasant all day. Before coming here I had been Ted to suppose that changes in temperature were not sudden : my experience however has been very different. But my constitution does not suffer from them as it did in the East, either because of my more vigorous health or of the great purity of the air, and perhaps it may be from a combination of both.
During the forenoon I took a long walk down the river on the look-out for plants, but found very few ; however got three new specimens for the herbarium, and several fine yellow violets, which I hope will press better than those heretofore tried. I walked for nearly a mile on a sand bar, and found imbedded in the sand a well preserved buffalo skull, wanting only the lower jaw. I sent Jim for it and shall give it the privilege of a visit to the East. M’Kenzie did not succeed in skinning the small birds shot this morning, on account of such large holes in them. In the afternoon one of the men brought me a small owl which lives with the prairie-dog. I killed it, and with M’K’s. assistance took off its skin; but as we hive: no arsenic, I fear it will not keep; I have, therefore, made a skeleton of it and if the skin decays will have at least its bones.
While engaged in this operation, a band of Indians entered the yard for a dance; they. were about twenty in number and had two leaders, one on horseback. ‘All were dressed in war costume and had their bodies painted with vermillion, or with yellow ochre ; they exhibit the same taste for dis

<<<Page: 76>>>

but they went in such numbers, and with so many horses, that I declined, and came back. Spent an hour in writing, and then partook of some real Baltimore oysters; they were a year old, however, but tasted better than I expected.
After dinner started with M’Kenzie up the river; he shot at a prairie squirrel andmissed ; we then went on to a cooley, in which there was a large rock of red sand stone, seen frequently in the prairies below this, about five feet each way, and appears to be on the surface only. I had no hammer and could not bring away a specimen; the side of the hill had many stones in it as large as a half bushel measure, but they were nearer a limestone in appearance. I got in this little valley, specimens of five or six plants seen for the first time. After returning, I spent an hour in putting dried specimens in the herbarium.
I received some information about the Indians, of which the following is the substance. The Sioux nation has no general council, but each tribe and band determines its own affairs. These bands have some bond of common interest analogous to the ties of our secret societies; the CrowFeather-in-Cap band are pledged to protect each others wives — to refrain from violating them, and if the wife of one of their number is stolen by another of their number, she is returned, the band either paying the thief for returning the stolen property, or forcing him to do it whether he will or not. Should a wife be violated, they are bound to aid the mjured brother, in rev enging his wrong. These bands have societies analogous to the Orders, Divisions, &c., of our secret societies, in all parts of. the Sioux nation, and a stranger always finds friends amongst those of his own band. One reason why this band are thus pledged, is that so many quarrels arise because of the women; that say that in any camp, if a difficulty occurs, in almost every case a woman is the cause.
The Strong Heart band is pledged to protect each other in their horses ; should a Strong Heart from a distance, steal some horses, and they be claimed by a brother Strong Heart, his fellows would tell him that he must give them up, or they would give the robbed man some of their own horses, regarding it as the greatest disgrace to themselves, to allow him to go away on foot. And thus, I suppose, that all these bands have some common object that unites them together; and here we have the origin of this system of banding; in the absence of law it takes the place of our system of justice. The only law among the savage tribes is that of force; if a man is injured, he must himself punish the offender, but in most cases, to do this, he must be supported by others, and who so proper for this as his brother or brother-in-law? And thus, for mutual protection, kindred are forced to unite in bands.
To give me some idea of their religion, I may state that they pray to the Great Spirit on any occasion when they feel the need of his aid, and then promise a sacrifide of cloth, or a feast of dogs to him. Thus, a man is struck by a ball that ‘only sticks in his flesh, producing a slight wound ; from this circumstance he fancies that he is not to be killed by a ball; he holds it up and offers a prayer to the Great Spirit, thus: ‘Oh, thou Great Spirit, I believe that [am not to be killed by a ball, and, as a proof of that belief, I will wear this ball constantly, and will give to you, exposed to the sun and air till they rot, some blankets and tobacco; should I lose this ball from around my neck, then I believe that the next one will kill me.” This ball is thenceforth worn as his “medicine,’’ and it is prayed

<<<Page: 77>>>

eo 104
to and guarded with the most scrupulous care; it is therefore more than a charm, having the addition of the element of reverence and worship. The sacrifices of blankets, &c., are exposed on a tree or in the prairie, till destroyed. In battle, when they feel themselves in great danger, like the warriors of old, they stop, and with outstretched arm, they pray to the Great Spirit, and promise a sacrifice if they have success, and are careful to fulfil their promise. But they have no idea of future reward and punishment; all are to be happy in the other world. They know of no moral relation to God; his will, as a standard of right and wrong, is never heeded, but like the Greeks and Romans, they pray for his favor in their worst deeds.
One of the most singular things amongst their customs is the reiation held by a man to the parents of his wife; he never names them, speaks to them, nor looks his mother-in-law in the face, no matter how long they may live together; he is ‘‘ ashamed’ and thinks he shows them the highest respect by acting so; he gets the best lodge, and is bound to supply the old people with meat until he has a family. The young couple occupy the large lodge, while the old folks live in the small one behind them, and should they accidentally meet, they hide their faces in some way. All his dealings with the old people are through his wife. This treatment of his new parents is the highest test of good breeding among them, and the man is exceedingly ill-bred who violates this custom. ‘he husband never mentions his wife’s name, but in speaking to her uses the word ‘¢tche,’’? which good interpreters say they cannot translate ; it is not confined to this use, but is addressed also to a man when speaking to him, in speaking of his wife. If she have children, he speaks of her as this boy’s, or this girl’s mother, naming the child. The philosophy of this custom does not occur to me, but itis a very important fact, in the attempt to ascertain the ruling principles that make the savage to differ from the white man. What a contrast to the happy circle of friends to which a marriage often introduces a man amongst us. Indians despise the female sex; say that woman was made only for doing man’s drudgery, and for the gratification of his grossest passion; they say that whites ought not to have women, because they don’t know how to use them— thank God we do not, in their sense. How grateful we should feel to the Bible for the great social happiness it has diffused over the world. I think that Bancroft says the Indian language contains no word for the abstract father — that he always says my father or your father, &c. My brother says that it is not so in any Indian language that he is acquainted with.
Wednesday, May 29.— I forgot to mention yesterday, how the ceremony of sending and smoking the pipe was conducted. The different bands of Sioux are not bound to take up arms in defence of one another ; when therefore, any band finds itself under the necessity of calling in the aid of others, at pays them, and the negotiation is carried on somewhat in this way: The band wishing aid, collects in solemn council, and the pipe and tobacco are placed in the centre; having no written language, of course the message must be conveyed verbally, and the messenger who has been chosen is in the council. ‘They all make their speeches in his presence, so that he may know what to repeat; they then, with solemn ceremony, bind up the tobacco in a piece of, skin, tie it in a particular manner, and paint it with blue earth and vermilion. The pipe and tobacco are then put into the hands of the messenger to be borne to the tribe to which he is sent. Having

<<<Page: 78>>>

105 oe
arrived at their village, a council of the braves is held to hear his message, and to determine whether they will open and smoke his tobacco. He makes his speech, states the wrongs suffered by his tribe, tells the number of blankets, horses, and robes that will be paid them for their services, and awaits their answer. If they determine to accept his offer, the tobacco is opened and smoked; they are then bound by the strongest ties to meet at the rendezvous, and to fulfil their engagements ; if they fail so to do, they are scorned and derided by the other tribes. On their arrival at the appointed place, the articles promised, are handed over to the partisnas or leaders of the different bands in solemn council, and as there will not be enough for every one, the leader, if he is generous, will give these things to those of his band who are poor and have none. On the contrary, should they decline the offer of this ambassador, his tobacco and pipe are returned to him unopened, and he is dismissed with some present.
The Sioux language is said to be as flexible as our own, having many different forms for expressing the same idea. They have inflexions of nouns and verbs, but no genders; it is said to be a more difficult language to acquire, than either the Blackfoot or Crow tongue. Every day seems to develope something interesting relative to the Indians, and a careful observer could, in a year or two, collect a volume of valuable facts relative to their habits and languages.
Thursday, May 30. — This morning at breakfast, I was glad to learn that the carts from the Cheyenne Indians were in sight, and soon afterward was relieved of a good deal of anxiety by seeing them unload my specimens from the Bad Lands. They all came safely, except some of the bags, which had been torn by wolves which had opened the cache, eaten up all the parfleche, and opened the bags in search of something more palatable, but the unkind bags gave them stones when they asked for meat. I thik a number of the small pieces of petrified wood were lost. A part of the morning was passed in packing the specimens in boxes, and soon I had the pleasure of seeing one large box well filled, marked T. A. Culbertson ; another box is also nearly full. Afterwards I prepared a long report to Professor Baird. While engaged in writing it, I heard a gun fired in the yard, and a noise as if a large number of persons had arrived.
On going to the window, I saw a large band of Indians on horseback, preceded by several on foot, bearing two flags — the stars and stripes ;_ it was a band of the Blackfeet tribe of Sioux. They had just arrived with about fifty lodges, and, while squaws were putting up these, the ‘Braves’? come to announce themselves. They dismounted and entered the reception room with a friendly shake of the hand to most of the whites present. A feast was ordered for them. In the middle of the room were placed four (five gallon) kettles, filled with most tempting mush, and beside these, to keep them in countenance, were two others, equally large, filled with equally tempting coffee, already sweetened, while on the floor were fifty large hard crackers, (pilot bread) and about one-hundred plugs of very common tobacco. The Indians were all around the room on chairs, if they could get them, while those in the middle sat on the floor, enjoying the most happy anticipations. They had no meat in their camps and had been almost starving for some time. I entered and placed myself full length on a bed beside Gilpin, who was master of the feast. While the company were detained, waiting for the arrival of one of the young men, I took observations ; and first, I noticed that they had all the gravity of countenance usually exhibited by hungry men of

<<<Page: 79>>>

(a 106
all countries, while waiting for their dinners; there was no laughing or jesting unbecoming the serious business before them, but the various pipes were passed round in profound silence. They were all in full dress, presenting an amusing mixture of savage and civilized costumes; many of them had fur caps, decorated with handsome plumes of the ostrich feathers, dyed red ; others had on the much coveted soldier coat, and all wore highly ornamented Indian dress. ‘There was a most agreeable variety of. faces, exhibiting all degrees, from that of the stern old brave to the light-hearted daring young scalp taker. There were several who had an amiable and intellectual expression of countenance ; they were tall, lightly framed, and with the features of the face delicate and long. Among these were four brothers, noble-hearted fellows, the sons of an old man, whose bones I hope to carry away with me.
These were the Indians that Gilpin traded with, and he said they were all strongly attached to him — that they are most excellent men, although they certainly bear a bad name with the other traders. He said that the young braves of noble families despise a mean action, such as not paying for anything a trader might advance them on credit — that they would cast it up as a reproach to any one who should fail in so domg. One of them who sat near recognized me as a brother of Alexander; he asked Gilpin if I was not, and then gave me a friendly shake of the hand. After all were in, and each had his pan, (they provide their own utensils for eating here,) this one arose, shook hands with Gilpin, myself and the Little Bear, a chief of another tribe, and made a short speech, returning thanks for the feast, &c. When he closed, an old pale-faced warrior came forward, shook hands with us, and remaining on his feet began a speech. ‘ Ah,”’ said Gilpin, “that old fellow can speak, he is a second John Q. Adams.” I regarded him attentively ; he was of the common height, broad shouldered, with an expansive forehead, and that style of prominent and large features which indicates intellect'and sternness. He stood erect, with his left hand holding his blanket, and with his right making gestures continually. Never did I listen toa more ready flow of language, or to a more self composed, dignified speaker, whether he addressed us or turned to the Indians on either side of him. His speech was also a complimentary one, and was short, as the dinner was getting cold. He concluded, and two young men took the office of waiters; they had no light task, and before they got through had burnt their fingers, and made the sweat roll from their faces. It was pleasing to observe the quiet and decorum throughout the whole scene ; each one waited patiently until his turn came, and then modestly received his cracker, meat or coffee. The Little Bear, the old man and an invited guest, had no dish, and when the coffee was being served out, a large tin mug was got for him; the young man who was serving, instead of passing on, Waited until the mug was brought, and then gave the old man a treble portion, being a very pleasing instance of politeness and respect. As they drank their coffee nearly every one, especially the old man, made their compliments to us, as we do in drinking wine. The feast went on cheerfully, and towards the conclusion, our old man started a song, or rather a how! of thanks, which was caught up and echod by several. Gilpin tells me that these songs have only an occasional word and that it is the same with nearly all theirsongs. The tobacco was then distributed, two plugs being given to each; but the young men, being able to kill buffalo and buy tobacco, gave their portion to some of their friends too old for the hunt. I

<<<Page: 80>>>

107 ra]
noticed quite a number passing their pans, well filled with mush, to their squaws who were standing about the door, which indicated generous and kind feeling. This was not an act of impoliteness, but just the reverse according to Indian etiquette, for with them it is very impolite not to eat all that is given at a feast — you must eat or carry away. Soon after, the parties dispersed and went to their lodges, to feast again most probably.
On asking at what age young men were allowed to attend these feasts, I was told that they went to those given by whites at all ages, but that they must gain admittance to the feasts among themselves in one of three ways— by stealing a great many horses, by giving a great deal to the poor, or by bringing in the scalps of a great many warriors. The men who appeared so peaceable this afternoon were all ready to kill their fellows, on any provocation, and, doubtless, every man of them had killed more then one. They are regarded at the fort as the worst of all the tribes, and are blamed for killing cattle every time they come. They have traded a large number of robes “this afternoon, and nearly all for eatables, as they were “starving 3 they want to trade for meat, but Alexander will not do this, on any consideration, for fear of starving himself.
Oh! for the jaw bone of an ass to murder these miserable Indian dogs ; just now, as at every few minutes during the day and night they are howling like a set of fiends; they have nee a decent bark like our well-bred American dogs, but it is howl! howl!! howl!!! everlastingly — but after all it is their nature, for they are more ‘wolf than dog.
Recipe for making dried Plums.— It is late, but I must note a new way, or rather the Indian way of drying plums, for the benefit of our economical housewives. When a lady wishes to preserve her plums, which grow here abundantly, she gathers them, invites her neighbors, and they spend the afternoon sociably in sucking out the plum stones, saving the skins, which are carefully put away and dried, and when epblcen with the scrapings of a buffalo skin, are esteemed a most rare dish. This is worthy a place amongst “ Miss Leslie’s Thousand and one Receipts.”’
Friday, May 31.— This morning was spent in hunting antelope with M’Kenzie; we rode about ten miles over the hills bordering the Missouri, but did not get any game. The few antelopes that we saw were very wild, and although M’Kenzie shot twice, the animals were too far off. A wolf was seen scampering along, but at such a distance that we could get no chance for ashot. It appears as if I were to get no game at all here; the best marksmen about the fort have tried to get wolves, antelope and prairie dogs, but thus far without success. I have tried to get rabbits, and have engaged several young Indians to bring me some, but none have yet come. About two o’clock this afternoon, Gilpin, Alexander and myself went to a feast in the village, given by one of the tribe which arrived yesterday. On entering the lodge, we found but few assembled. Opposite the door or place of entrance, through which we passed by stooping and dragging ourselves in, was placed a good robe for our seat, and in honor of the occasion, a small square box containing a flag. Ina short time the whole company had assembled, consisting of perhaps twenty persons. An old man, who came in last, returned thanks to the host for his hospitality, and then each of the company followed in turn, all using the same form except the title by which they addressed him: thus — “brother-in-law, I thank you for the feast,’? — “‘ cousin, I thank you, &c.”? — “ uncle, I thank you, &e.’ Then

<<<Page: 81>>>

cri] 108
the host gave the hand of friendship to the whites present, and made a short speech, thanking us for our company, and making some inquiries concerning them; to these M’Kenzie replied, and then the master of ceremonies began to help the food, each one having provided his own dish. The mess, consisting of two dogs, of reverend age and valuable services, judging from appearances, had been boiled in a large copper kettle and was served out in very generous shares, beginning with us, and going around to complete the circle. I noticed that the man who sat at Gilpin’s right was not served, nor had he a pan— this seemed very strange, as he was the one who had made the speech to us, and appeared to be a prominent personage. On inquiring the reason, I was told that he was the host. ‘The host,” said I, ‘and don’t he eat?’’ ‘No, etiquette requires that he shall not partake at all of the feast.’” Nor did he serve it out, but simply sat as a mere looker on. A rib was given each of us, and having tasted it, the custom of carrying away what we could not eat, was a relief to us, and we left, carrying with us our ribs. There was a good deal of conversation, during which one of the old men spoke of their custom of eating dogs, and said that they regarded dogs as we do cattle. And it is partly true; they are of great service to them, being much used as pack animals, so that a dog feast is really an expensive one and a great compliment. But I was surprised to learn that this custom does not’ extend to the mountain Indians, who eat them only when starving. Hodgekiss tells me that a fat pup, well boiled, and the water changed several times, and then allowed to cool, is a delicious dish, and has no dog taste about it.
Before one of the lodges near where the feast was held, was the body of a little girl who had died yesterday ; it was wrapped in a blue blanket, and was to be placed on the scaffold as soon as the coffin should be finished. I did not see the ceremony of conveying it to the tomb, or rather, to its resting place, but it was probaaly done in a very simple manner, as Passo, as she lay just below the fort. Salutes were fired on the boat and at the fort alternately, from the time she appeared in sight until her landing, and there wasa great gathering of Indians and Whites to welcome her. A. recognized on the hurricane deck, his friend Dr. Evans, of last summer, and soon I had the pleasure of making his acquaintance. He had visited the Mauvaise Terre last summer, and had made quite a collection there; this, of course, was a bond of sympathy between us; it was a real gratification for me to converse with an intelligent man on the subject of the Bad Lands. He was very free, and we soon understood each other.
The substance of our several conversations was that we were both disappointed in the appearance of the Bad Lands, in the number of petrifactions found, and in the number of localities when found. He says he believes they are scarcely to be obtained in any other place than the locality of the turtles near Bear river, visited by me. Our estimate of their extent was the same, namely — thirty by sixty miles; he says that white earth now runs through the whole length of them. Before seeing him I had felt very much disappointed about my collection, fearing that it would be of little value ; but was greatly relieved to hear him say that such had been his feelings before reaching the States, but that he was agreeably disappoimted to find that his small collections had excited a great deal of interest in all who saw them, and he predicted a like favorable reception for mine. The letter I had written to Professor Baird was submitted to his inspection, as I wished to have his opinion of what I said; he had attentively read through the six pages, and complimented me on the accuracy of what I had there stated. “There was no alteration that he would suggest,’’ though he gave me a caution I readily acted on, which was not to state any thing except on my own personal observation, not depending even on the best authority, “ for,” said he “this may appear under the sanction of a well known name, and may afterwards be discovered to be a most ridiculous error. I mentioned to him that I thought, from Lieutenant Lynch’s description, that similar formations abounded along the Jordan; he examined the account in his book, to which I have before particularly referred, and coincided in my opinion, stating that he supposed that such was probably the case. That point will be more particularly examined by those to whom we make our reports. The formation in the Bad Lands is what is called the tertiary.
Thursday, June 6. — Last night the boat laid up about dark, as it would be impossible to travel on this river at night. We must have been off very early, as when J got up about four o’clock, we were under way, and some distance from our starting place. We stopped before breakfast for fuel, the procuring of which here is not like that in the States; there are here no wood-yards, with the wood all cut and in proper order, but whenever a lot of dry timber appears, if the boat needs it, she puts ashore, and all hands fall to work cutting and carrying on board; with the number of hands on board, it takes very little time. I landed and tramped about in the wet weeds, to look for botanical specimens, and got quite a number, although not in flower. Soon

<<<Page: 82>>>

Fa 7 110
afterwards we entered the Great Bend, into which the Shayen (Chenenne,) river empties; it is about five miles across, and twenty around by the river. Just below this bend, while we were wooding, six Mackinaw boats belonging to the opposition company, and from the upper country came in sight, and passed down; they appeared to be lightly laden, and were estimated to have about thirteen hundred packs of robes aboard. The slate formation appeared on the banks just above this. About twelve o’clock we passed the mouth of the Shayen, and stopped to wood just above it; it appeared to be a small stream. No specimens gathered there. Afterwards we were detained ona sand bar for an hour or two, but found it to be no annoyance, since I was engaged for a part of the morning in putting some specimens in the herbarium.
We are accustomed to speak of the Indian as the Red Men of the forest ; this was true once, when the Eastern states were peopled by them, but now they are the Red Men of the Prairie. This, of such vast extent, is almost entirely destitute of timber, at least there is nothing that would be called forest, except at some places along the Missouri. To-day we have seen very little timber; most of the banks are destitute ofit entirely, except the willow ; occasionally a point is seen well timbered with young cotton wood. » I have been told that they go from Fort Pierre, one hundred miles above, to get timber for their boats and other purposes.
The banks to-day have been bluffs, sometimes abruptly descending to the water’s edge, and at other times having a beautiful intervening bottom. It appears to me that although the hills look so barren, the river is more beautiful than the Ohio, probably because of the green foliage of the willows skirting the banks, and covering many of the islands. I have several times admired the fine grass on the islands at a distance, but the grass has turned to willows on a near approach. These are islands newly formed from sand bars, and they are soon covered with a growth of young willows; this 1s very good for cattle and horses, and often is their only food.
T found my watch to be just one hour behind the watches from St. Louis. This led to some conversation with Mr. Picotte about the difference of time at the two places. Fort Pierre is only about ten degrees west of St. Louis, which would make forty minutes difference in time. The latitude of St. Louis is nearly thirty-eight degrees, forty-five minutes; that of Fort Pierre, forty-four degrees, twenty minutes, making it five degrees thirty-five minutes further north than the former, and four degrees twenty minutes north of Chambersburg.
I am told in reply to my questions on the subject, that the water of the river might safely be said to move with a velocity of from four to seven miles per hour, depending upon the stage of water. ‘This corresponds very well with Col. Tilton’s account.
Friday, June 7 — Siz o’clock A. M.— Last night we were visited by an unusually severe thunder storm, but were not injured by it. The sun rose beautiful and clear this morning, and promises a warm day. We are within ten or fifteen miles of the Little Shayen now, which comes in from the west side of the Missouri. The banks this morning, and for several hours at the close of last evening exhibited steep, irregular bluffs, and slate formation on the western bank, and beautiful prairie bottoms, with gently ascending bluffs on the east side. The strata of slate are generally horizontal. Went ashore last night expecting to get some botanical specimens, but found none; a plant which I had got at the last wooding place,

<<<Page: 83>>>

i rey
very much like the fox corn of my Virginia collection, was abundant. We have cut green ash timber, which the captain says is better than the dry wood we have been getting before. No locality of fossil specimens has been seen, or rather we have landed at no such place, although I have seen some that appeared worthy of an examination.
Half-past nine A. M. — The boat is now wooding on the western shore, not far above the mouth of the Little Shayen; the fuel is cotton wood, that has been killed by the fire, I would judge. Vegetation is flourishing, but flowers scarce; got one new specimen and saw several old ones; the purple violet must have abounded here, as the beds were numerous, and 1 took one merely as a remembrance of this upper country. Saw several frogs, but was able to secure but one of the smaller kind; have as yet seen no snakes; saw some mushrooms. Slate still continues to appear on the western bank.
This is certainly the most agreeable traveling I ever experienced ; the air is delightful — the shores and trees quite green — only three of us on board, besides the Captain, who are really companions; myself, the only “¢ distinguished” stranger, living on the best, and treated with the most generous kindness and respect — all these things combine to render the trip as delightful as possible. I can never forget the kindness that has afforded me this pleasure. The musquitoes, however, are showing the cloven foot 5 they have made sundry violent attacks on my person, with malice aforethought, and intent of blood-drawing, and I have murdered numbers in pure self defence.
We have just passed the mouth of the river marked Sawarcana on the map; its most common name here is the Moreau, so called from an old Frenchman who probably lived on it once. It is a small stream, although larger than most others here. The banks of the Missouri for some miles below are gently ascending hills with round tops, and they are covered with short grass, enough, however, to give them a very pleasing appearance. The opposite bank is less hilly, but equally beautiful, and timber rare on both of them. Ido not feel as persons generally expect to feel when traveling in a wild country, inhabited only by savages, nor have I so felt, at any period of my traveling on the prairies, with very few exceptions. ‘The reason of this has frequently appeared to be the almost entire absence of forests ; on the prairies, early im the season, one sees large tracts of land covered with yellow grass that readily suggests the grain fields of his home ; the lonely appearance of the prairie as the grass comes up reminds one of the green pastures of home, and one almost feels as if the farm house was just over the hill. It was hard to realize that the beautiful fields we saw to-day were not the fields of a cultivated farm. Just where we are the eastern side exhibits an abrupt bank, thirty feet high, composed of slate. ;
Saturday, June 8—Seven o'clock A. M.—Last evening I exhibited my tabular view of the Sioux nation to Mr. Picotte for examination, and he pronounced it to be correct, except that the estimate of souls to each lodge is too small; he feels sure that eight or ten is the correct average for each lodge, and his opinion is worthy of regard.
When we landed I examined a bluff bank to confirm an opinion I had formed that certain flowers seen along the bank were the same as some about Fort Pierre, and I found myself correct. Alexander found a buffalo skeleton wanting very few of the bones, and, as it was probably, the most perfect one

<<<Page: 84>>>

hives of some of the traders in the winter sezson. Therefore a feast of coffee and biscuits was given to all who came on board, and sugar, coffee, flour, biscuit, tobacco and ammunition were distributed amongst them, with all of which they appeared to be well satisfied. We were invited into the village, and Mr. Picotte and Alexander determined to go ; although last year they had served the latter in a very treacherous manner.
One of their chiefs had gone down to Council Bluffs on the company’s boat a year before, although much against the will of Mr. Picotte, who had paid him not to do so for two years before. But on this occasion he would go in spite of all opposition, and was killed by the Pawnees. The Rees blamed the company for his death, and determined to make them pay for it. On the arrival of the boat last year, Alexander was invited to a feast in the village, and went, accompanied only by the young man in charge of the fort. He found them all in a large hut armed to the teeth, and then first learned that dissatisfaction existed among them. They charged him with the murder of their chief, and in the most threatening manner, demanded pay for his blood. My brother was unarmed, and the people in the boat knew nothing of what was doing in the village. They had a stormy session at the feast, but at length all was settled by his promising to pay them two good horses; they then allowed him to depart in safety, and at the proper time he sent the horses. Amongst all the Indians blood may be paid for, which is a fact, I believe, common to all heathen nations.
To-day four of us went to the village and made a ‘ complimentary call,” as we had not time for a feast. We were received in a large mud lodge or hut, built in a circular form, having a diameter of about thirty feet. The entrance is through a small projection, corresponding in design, and somewhat in shape to our small covered porches. The lodge was airy, clean and had no unpleasant smell in the inside. The gentleman of the house received us politely, placed a mat on the ground, then four or five robes, and taking us each by the hand seated us on them. Then he ran out, and standing on the top of his house invited the people to call and see us. While they were assembling I made observations.
The Rees do not use the skin lodge. The one we had entered was of their usual fashion, and was built somewhat in this way; a circular foundation often thirty feet in diameter, is dug about twelve inches deep; in the middle of this a platform about ten feet square and twenty feet high, is made by erecting four upright posts, and on these are placed four others horizontally; then around the circular foundation are placed a proper number of upright posts, on which are again laid horizontal timbers, and against these rest small poles set very close together and one end stuck in the ground. These are probably five feet in length; then from the horizontal poles to those of the square platform in the middle, and beyond _ them, extend other poles laid as close together as possible, and of such a length as to form an entire roof, except a hole in the centre for the passage of smoke. On the sides and top dirt is thrown, and the house is finished. At the entrance a small projection is built of poles, extending probably six feet beyond tha main wall, and covered; this protects them the better from the snow and rain. The external appearance is that of a rude cone, set on a base about five feet high, and thirty feet in diameter. On entering, you must stoop, but as soon as you pass the skin door, your head may again become erect.
We were conducted to the place of honor, opposite to and facing the

<<<Page: 85>>>

117 riy
door. To our right, along the wall, were arranged several bedsteads, rudely made, while to the left, a part was cut off by a couple of poles, for the accommodation of the horses ; ; the chickens had a coop in one corner, but roam at large on most occasions, and the centre is used for a fireplace.
The lodge was clean, airy, light and comfortable, and there was plenty of room for more than those, who I suppose, inhabited it. Behind us were hung bows with spears on the ends, and two rude instruments of music, made of a number of pumpkins. I believe something is put in the inside of them and shaken, but I have not learned the modus operandi. ‘There were two squaws present, the elder of whom was very polite, the younger one stood back, either because she was the younger wite, or perhaps the wife of another man. I was quite pleased with both of ‘them. Near the fireplace a small wooden mortar was sunk in the ground, for pounding corn, The large and high room appeared rather scarce of furniture. I have thus attempted to describe the appearance and structure of the lodge in which we were, and this is the general appearance of all others. Many persons in the States live in much more filth and much less comfort. About twenty of the men having assembled, the owner of the lodge gave us the right hand again in token of friendship, and made a short speech, which we replied to, through an interpreter, and then we left.
The village is composed of two-hundred lodges, as near as I could Jearn from the interpreter, and is built upon the top of a bluff bank rising about seventy-five feet perpendicular from the water. The huts are placed very irregularly, sometimes with very narrow, and sometimes with quite broad spaces between them. A number of platforms of poles, as high as the lodges themselves, are interspersed among them for the convenience of drying meat and dressing robes. I noticed a number of squaws busily employed in “dressing robes. I left the village much pleased with my visit, and with the politeness with which we had been treated.
On passing to the fort, I observed a great number of hillocks scattered over the prairie, and theses I was told, are graves, this people having abandoned the old method of scaffolding their dead. Other more agreeable sights on the prairie also attracted my attention, and these were little patches of corn and pumpkins, generally enclosed by a slight bush fence. I forgot to mention that over the fire in the lodge were two bundles of what appeared to be hay tied up in skins; these, I was told, contained grains of corn put up in hay, and hung so as to be hee ated: if the grains germinate they are planted, and those that do not are left ont. This corn is small and on small ears, but Mr. Picotte says it contains a larger amount of flour than our corn. We spent a short time in the fort, and found it to be small and the buildings old, but everything very neat and clean. I saw there a young antelope, which a squaw allowed to suck from her breasts ; it is said to be quite common for squaws to suckle young animals, often raising in this manner cubs of the grizzly bear. I have noticed that they often allow their children to suckle till much older than with us. I have seen children four or five years old taking a good tug at the maternal fount.
About nine o’clock the boat was off again, having landed all her freight, and taken in some Ree corn. The hills aaah the fort and a little above it, are steep, irregular and of the whitish clay (tertiary, I think,) formation. The tops of several have a light red appearance as though they might be of pumice stone, such as ‘128
are there called Re-nis-te-nos; they visit the Missouri but once a year. About six lodges of the Assiniboines are encamped at the opposition fort a few miles below, and they were all here when we arrived. This occasioned some trouble and has been near making a serious difficulty as we had two Crow Indians on board, and the Crows and Assiniboines began hostilities a few days ago. Some of the Assiniboines wanted to kill the Crows on board, and our gentlemen had to protect them, by putting one in the fort and concealing the other in one of the state rooms. One of these Crows is a great warrior, although still a young man; his name is the Horse-guard, and although not thirty years old, he has been engaged in about thirty expeditions, always returning with hair (scalps) or horses, and getting his party back in safety. He is a half breed and has the features of a white man. I should not judge him to be naturally a blood-thirsty man from his looks, but he is very brave and says if they would Jet him out in the prairie he would whip all the Assiniboines here. His son, a fine looking boy, is with him. The Assiniboines are here the worst dressed and meanest looking Indians I have seen, but this is partly owing to their being in mourning for the young man whom the Crows killed the other day. The cause of quarrel was this: a war party of the Assiniboines attacked some Crows, mistaking them for Blackfeet and killed two ; an attempt was made to settle the difficulty but the Crows killed a young Assinibome who had strayed from the camp while the negotiations were going on, and now war is fully declared.
Fort Union is situated on the east bank of the Missouri, about four miles above the mouth of the Yellowstone, and has a very beautiful prairie running back of it to the hills. On the same side, just below the mouth of the Yellowstone, is situated the fort of the opposition company of which Harvey and Joe Picotte are the principal men. The Missouri and Yellowstone come together—one from the north and the other from the south, and neither makes a bend beiore their junction, so that it would appear like the same river did not the currents run in opposite directions ; after their junction of course the stream is very large; just now the Yellowstone is the larger, although both of them are very full.
The bell is ringing preparatory to a start for a point still farther up the river. We shall probably go much higher than any other boat has ever gone. Mr. Denig was so.kind as to present to me a very fine bone bow with a valuable quiver and arrows, which I shall keep as a memento of this trip.
Twelve o’ clock — Eight or ten miles above Fort Union on the Missouri ; country more level than below, and banks well timbered all along ; hills lower, and the impression that of a more open country ; bad lands appear occasionally off the river and in perpendicular banks from the water.
One o’clock. — We are now passing a small level prairie, on the west bank of the river; it is covered with fine grass and has the appearance of a beautiful meadow. Hills to the north, a mile off — light clay intermixed with white earth — rolling prairie probably beyond. At the point in the first great bend, about ten miles above the Fort, channel seven to nine feet deep, point well timbered, vegetation backward —the yellow dried grass still gives its colors to the plain, although the new grass is coming on; this has been observed for several days past. Little Muddy creek (Bu-bue) a small stream about ten yards wide, comes in from the north, opposite the extremity of this point. °
We are now passing out of this large bend, which is about half a mile

<<<Page: 86>>>

123 126
but they are hieroglyphics, as easily read by an intelligent Indian as words by us, and perhaps containing a whole history of some great event.
The Blackfeet do not place their dead on seaffolds but either in a hole well covered to keep off the wolves, or they leave them in the lodge with everything just as it is when they die. In that case the wolves of course eat their bodies very soon; and I am told that in this way the body of nearly every Blackfoot is disposed of. When one of them is in mourning he puts white earth on his head and goes out before his lodge wailing most piteously ; as soon as the neighbors see that they all rush to his lodge and take it and everything it contains, leaving him nothing but his horse. The death of a relation is therefore a very serious affair, since a man loses all his property as well as his friend. How different with us—where a man frequently gains property with the death of a relative.
A Blackfoot has complete power over his wife; if he finds her unfaithful, he generally cuts her nose off, but he can shoot her down if he chooses to do so, and it is said that it is very common to see good looking young women going about noseless. If a man loves his wife and wishes to overlook any indiscretion of this kind, her own brother may walk into the lodge and say “itis only to-day that you have made me ashamed,’’ and shoot her dead before her husband’s face, while he can say not a word. The Blackfeet are taught to beg from their infancy and are adepts in the art.
Six o’clock. — We have just started, after the longest detention we have had except for business ; we reached this point about twelve o’clock, and have been here ever since fixing one of the wheels. However, the time was not lost, for the hands have cut enough of wood to take us down to the Fort, and will not have to detain for that purpose after we have unloaded.
Milk river is said to be about twenty-five miles distant, but we would have reached it to-day, had we not been detained long. The face of the country to-day has been generally rolling prairies, frequently stretching many miles from the river: About eleven o’clock we passed the outlet of a lake or pond a short distance to the north of the river. In twenty-four hours we shafl probably have our face turned homewards, when I shall hurrah for the States.
We have just passed the outlet of a lake which, according to one account is the same as that mentioned this morning; but according to another, it belongs to a different lake — if there be but one, it must be ten or twelve miles long. A part of it could be seen when we reached the end of the wood, and it is narrow like a creek and winds considerably. The woods are known as the places where the free men, (those not in the employ of the company,) built themselves a fort, and the lake is sometimes called Freemens’ lake from that circumstance.
This lake is in one of the most magnificent prairies I have seen; we are still opposite it, and it sweeps away for miles, at first very level and then terminating in hills, gradually rismg and covered with grass. To the south a fine prospect is also secn, but then the hills rise from the river and in the distance black spots show that buffalo are there. The bute at Milk river is now easily seen. Just passed a small stream called the Little river, coming in from the south, marked but not named on the map.
Thursday, June 20 — Eight o’clock.— This morning we were off as usual, about half-past three o’clock ; soon afterwards passed a small stream on the south, generally called Dry Fork, though at present it contains water. At half-past seven o’clock we passed Porcupine river coming in

<<<Page: 87>>>

i. Pe]
from the north; itis about twenty yards wide, no wood at the mouth, and as far as we could see, very little along its banks. It comes in at the upper end of Porcupine gut off, sometimes called Harvey’s cut off. During all this morning we have a continuation of the prairie country seen yesterday, especially on the north side there has been beautiful rolling prairie all along excepting occasional timbered points; to the south low and scantily herbaged hills have run close to the river.
This Porcupine river is the place from which the military expedition under the command of General Atkinson in 1825, turned back. He wintered at Old Council Bluffs, and in the spring ascended with nine keel boats. A part of his company went by land as far as Milk river. The object of the expedition was to treat with the Indians. The river to-day is still in a good stage, but we have had to cross frequently to keep the channel.
There is always plenty of water here, say those familar with the place, but the only trouble is to find the channel. The boat is now light and has passed over some places where only two and a half feet of water was sounded ; rather hard scratching however.
A large band of buffalo cows with their calves were crossing just above the mouth of the Porcupine, but Mr. Picotte would not allow the men to shoot ; we passed very close to them all and it was amusing and touching too, to see the very great fear they exhibited as they in vain struggled to get up the steep bank. I noticed here for the first time, what J had been told before, that the buffalo grunt almost exactly like a large hog ; had a person heard and not seen he could easily have thought that a drove of swine was passing. The men tried to catch some calves with a lasso but did not succeed. Buffalo have been seen in great bands for several days past ; last evening probably five-hundred were in sight at one time on the river banks. I have seen paths beaten by them which look like travelled roads in a thickly settled country, and paths of this kind are seen at almost every landing.
Twelve o’clock.— We are now on the point immediately above Milk river and will go a short distance higher up to find good timber for building a boat. Milk River comes in from the north, and is at least two hundred miles above Fort Union. Mr. Clark says that it passes within a hard day’s ride — about forty miles -—— of Fort Benton, and if so it must be incorrectly laid down on the map. Some miles below I saw the first grizzly bear ot the season ; this is unusual as they are generally seen below Fort Union ; and Kelly, an old hunter, told me that the reason they are not seen on the river now, is that they are out on the prairies after the pomolanche or prairie turnip, of which they are very fond.
We passed a few hours ago some black slate hills on the south side rising directly from the water; the sides in several places were marked by the buffalo tracks so as almost to resemble slate roads, and to cause one to feel as though he was in a much traveled country.
The boat has been about twenty-seven hundred miles above St. Louis, and a board was nailed on a large cotton wood tree near the shore, with the following inscription: ‘ N. B. El Paso, landed here June 20, 1850, thirtyfive days from St. Louis-—— John Durack, Captain.”” The thirty-five days is the running time. This day at twelve o’clock, we were forty days out from St. Louis. I really fcel very thankful that my life and health have been spared me during this journey. I have reached a point to which few, except traders have attained, and I hope that I have gained some valuable

<<<Page: 88>>>

r 2 128
mformation as well as restored my health. But it is a long distance, nearly four thousand miles to my home, and no one can tell what may befall me, but my duty is clear and I hesitate not to go even at theyrisk of the cholera. Should it please Divine Providence to restore me to mfy home and my studies, it is my sincere prayer that it may be to employ my powers and my knowledge as a minister of the Gospel.
Huzza for home! Here we are driving at half past three o’clock down stream as fast as steam will let us. Our shouts of farewell have hardly ceased to ring in these old hills that so seldom resound with the voice of waites, and now for the first time have hear! the piff of a steamboat. We stopped at twelve o’clock several miles above Milk River on the southern bank, landed all the freights for Fort Benton and have turned our face homeward. It was a picturesque scene as we rounded to, all hands on the hurricane deck — the crew singing one of their peculiar songs — the cannon firing and ourselves giving three goo] hearty cheers, while the shore with its green carpet was covered with merchandize — the different families bivouacking under the scattered and venerable trees, and the men who were bound for the Blackfeet, returning our cheers and salute with hearty good will.
Friday, June 21 — Siz o'clock A. M. — We are now perhaps, half way back to Fort Union, and if we meet with no misfortune, shall probably be there early this evening. The day is clear and pleasant and we are having a delightful ride.
Eight o'clock. — We are now stopping at the prairie on which is the large pile of elk horns mentioned a day or two ago. Old Mr. Picotte has the notion into his head, of taking the whole pile to St. Louis, and soon this noted, and almost revered land mark will be on the hurricane deck of the El Paso. All on board, excepting the old gentleman himself, would prefer to leave it untouched, especially as the horns are not in a good state of preservation. The river is falling and we shall have no time to lose.
Adopted relations among the Blackfeet are very frequent and of the most sacred character; two young men become comrades, and then they are friends by the closest ties, and it is a greater disgrace for a comrade to lose his friend in battle or want of bravery or skill, than to lose a younger brother. Whenever they are together for any time, they exchange presents.
The mere glimpse I have gained of Indian customs, convinces me that to acquire any philosophical and valuable knowledge of them, a person must live with them for a time. From such men as Mr. Picotte, Mr. Meldrum, Mr. Clark and my brother, he may gain a great deal of information, but no questioning can place him in possession of all the facts, because he does not know what to ask, andif he did, these men not being accustomed to definitely communicate their knowledge, often so speak as to convey an exaggerated impression without any design to deceive. Constantly customs of which I had no idea, are mentioned in conversation, so that it Is my opinion that in order to a proper appreciation of the Indian, a long residence among them is necessary.
Friday, Six o’clock, P. M.— Arrived at Fort Union again about four o’clock having had a most delightful trip to Milk River. The river has been falling, but as the weather is again oppressively hot, we look for more water, although there is still plenty to run down on. We shall be off early in the morning, and I feel glad to move on homeward as fast as possible ; nothing could induce me to live here. I feel sad at heart to part with my

<<<Page: 89>>>

129 fri
brother and I know that I shall be lonely to-morrow without him. May all his kindness be returned to him tenfold.
Saturday, June 22.—The boat moved from Fort Union across the river for wood about half past three o’clock, and about that time we had a very fine shower of rain. At half past seven o’clock we moved off, firing a salute to the men belonging to the fort who had come over to help us take in fuel, Alexander was with them and the Jast sight I had of him he was standing up in the boat which was just pushing off.
We have not made a very good run to-day because of the wind being against us this afternoon and the wood has been bad. A good deal of bad land appears on both sides of the river, and much of the burnt earth w ith it ; this often appeared on the sides of grass-covered hills, and in hills rising directly from the prairie, as well as in its usual position in the white land hills.
While it is difficult for one not skilled in such matters to refute the common belief that the red burnt-like earth is the result of the action of fire, it is well to mention some circumstances that at least throw some improbability on that theory; the first is that if these red looking places were craters, the whole bank of the river must have been volcanoes for hundreds of miles, with few exceptions — they occur in almost unbroken connection for miles, and above Fort Union there is one place where they thus appear almost continually for twenty or thirty miles, being there much more frequent than lower down. Another is, that so far as I can see, these hills exhibit no other evidence of the action of fire; there is not a single sion of volcanic action that I have seen around these places, either in the forma‘ions of the hills or in the stones on their surface.
And again what appeared to me very singular on the supposition of volcanic action, has been that these crater remains, or volcanic remains do not extend deep into the earth; in some places they look no deeper than a modern lime-kiln; in others they appear almost as a stratum placed in between the other formations, and in all they have other formations below them, and in many above them. I regret very much that I cannot describe the geological formation of these hills.
Monday, June 24.— Yesterday we passed Fort Berthold, the Gros Ventre Fort, and came within fifteen miles of Fort Clark, the Ree Fort at the old Mandan village. On the map there is a Fort Mandan marked nearly opposite Fort Clark ; this is probably the Fort built by Lewis and Clark for their quarters, when they wintered with the Mandans. I noticed yesterday a thick vein of coal in the bluff on which the Gros Ventre village is built.
Tuesday, June 25. — This is one of the few rainy days we have had, but is not uncomfortable, as we are well protected in the c abin and at the same time are moving along slowly towards home. There has been a good deal of detention from running on sand bars, and in looking for the channel. A few hours ago we passed Heart river, and at the place where we were aground so long when going up we stuck again, injuring one of the wheels.
Thursday, June 27. — Yesterday was nothing more than a bright pleasant day, passed in grounding, backing, wooding and going a few miles a-head. The night previous, we had landed at a place that ought to be called Musquito hollow, if. we may judge from the complaints made by every one. I never suffered so much from them, and could not get to sleep
until past midnight; others were forced from below to the hurricane deck, Mis—9

<<<Page: 90>>>

impossible for me to give an accurate account of the geological formation from observing it as the boat passes swiftly by. I have noticed the limestone mentioned by Nicollet and seen it in fine strata lying above slate; if this stone is hard enough, it would be admirable for building. I think it too soft however, although I have not yet been able to secure a specimen.
These slate and limestone rock occur in very high steep bluffs rismg almost perpendicularly from the water, except when bars or narrow bottoms inter vene ; they also often exhibit evidence of the presence of sulphur and iron ; they donot occur in one unbroken succession, but they cross the river very Reciedtly! being seen now on one side and again on the other, but never, so far as I remember, appearing on opposite sides at the same place. They do not occur in unbroken succession ever on the same side of the river, but most generally appear as the sections of a series of short hills with ravines between, and these ravines having in them grass and scrubby trees, fre quently cedar. I noticed many swallow nests in these high banks.
I have looked with some care for the pseudo volcanoes of Nicollet ; we passed the one in the bend below White River very early in the morning, and I did not see it to my disappointment, but I noticed several places in the banks which I supposed he called volcanoes, as they presented the red burnt-like appearance noticed so often about Fort Union. One of these places passed yesterday on the west bank, had so much the appearace of having been caused by fire as to make the Captain exclaim—that must have been a very recent fire. We are again getting into the region of snags, but we have made fine running yesterday and to-day. Hurrah for home!
Tuesday, July 2.— We reached the Vermilion post yesterday at twelve o’clock, and was welcomed by Mr. Larpenter. We were detained there all the afternoon to take in packs, and at night we lay at the island opposite and took in wood. J got two pairs of black tailed deer horns, and was offered a young skunk, which I declined; there are two on board, really beautiful little creatures and full of play. This morning we had made forty miles before breakfast and have some hopes of being in St. Louis by Sunday.
Wednesday, July 3.— We spent the night a Jittle below ol Council
3luffs, and this morning soon after breakfast were at Bellena, and saw for
the first time in some months a settlement of whites. Yesterday the hills for the first time were seen covered with timber and presented quite a pleasing contrast with the bare bluffs of the upper river. To-day we are hastening along and may reach St. Joe to-night.
Friday, July 5. — Yesterday was passed ‘by me delightfully, because I was hurr ying home as fast as steam could carry me. We passed St. Joe about ten o’clock, making only a short stop. I there got the skull of an Assiniboine chief from Mr. M’Donald. We passed several towns but stopped only once, at Parkville ; we met several steamboats bound upward. This morning it is oppressively hot.
Saturday, July 6. — My trip has at last ended, so far as the Indian country is concerned. The El Paso landed about two o’clock, all in good health and spirits and glad to get home. I desire to feel very grateful to Divine Providence for my safe return and restored health—may the knowledge gained be all employed in promoting God’s glory.

<<<Page: 91>>>

133 [Fy APPENDIX.
As already stated, Mr, Culbertson collected numerous specimens of Natural History during his recent expedition, Among these was a series of plants, a list of which as drawn up by Professor Thomas C. Porter, of Marshall college, Mercersburg, is subjoined. A list of the birds and mammialia of the Missouri river, from Fort Leavenworth to Fort Union at the mouth of the Yellowstone, has been kindly furnished by Mr. Edward Harris, of Moorestown, N. Jersey, and includes many species not seen by Mr Culbertson. Mr. Harris visited the Upper Missouri in 1842, in company with the distinguished naturalist, Mr. J. J. Audubon, recently deceased, for the purpose of assisting the latter gentleman in procuring materials for his valuable work on the mammalia of North America. No systematic catalogue of the kind has ever been before presented, although detached notices may be found in the narrative by Maximilian Prince de Wied of a journey along the Missouri to the Rocky mountains in 1832.
The concluding part of the appendix contains some valuable information on the numbers and distribution of the Indians of the Upper Missouri. This is arranged in a tabular form, accom-
panied by explanations, and is published as left by Mr. Culbertson. S. F. BAIRD.
Anemone pennsylvanica, Linn, Common in moist grounds along the Missouri. June 17. 56, 52.*
Thalictrnm dioicam, Linn. Staminate plant. Missouri river, June. 76,
Thalictrum cornati, Linn, Low grounds along the Missouri. Five feet high. Jane 27. 112.
Delphinium azureum, sWichz. Grassy bank opposite Fort Lookout. June 29, 108. BERBERIDACE.
Leontice thalictroides, Linn. Sine fl. et fr. Pinon’s spring, west of the head of Bad river. May 11. 2.
CRUCIFERE. Sisymbrium canescens, Nutt. Frequent near Fort Pierre. May. 26, 29. Erysimum asperuam D.C. Abundant around Fort Pierre. May, June. 40. Vesicaria ludoviciana D.C, Elk Horn Prairie. 12; 91, Vesicaria (undetermined.) Prairie. May. 9.
Viola cneullata, Ait. May. 18, 21. Viola Nuttall, Pursh. Valley of the Missouri. May 15, 105 17:
. LINACE/&. Linum rigidum, Pursh. Low grounds near Fort Pierre. June. 67. Linum perenne, Linn, Near the mouth of Milk river. June 20. 98. OXALIDACE/:. Oxalis stricta, Linn. Bankof the Missouri below Fort Clarke. June 23. 104.
* The numbers are those attached to the specimens.

<<<Page: 92>>>

ANACARDIACEE. Rhus toxicodendron, Linn. Bank ofthe Missouri. June. 58. MALVACEZE. Malvastrum coccinenm, Gray. Pl. Fendl. p. 34, and Gen Til. t, 219. (Sida coccinea, Nutt.) Dry svil, near the wnouth of the Yellowstone. June 15, So. VITACE.
Vitis riparia, Mich. Banks of the Missouri. June. 65.
POLYGALACEZ, Polygala alba, Nutt. (P. Beyrichii, Torr § Gr.) Opposite Fort Lookout. 110.
Vicia americana, Mull. Common along the Missouri, above Fort Pierre. 105. Lathyrus linearis, Nutt. Bauks of the Missonri; frequent. 17; 95. Lathyrus polymorphus, Nutt. Very abundant on hillsand low grounds. Fragrant. May. 12. Amorpha nana, Nutt. Common around Fort Pierre; 18 inches to two feet high. May. 38. Dalea (uudetermined.) Stne fl. et fr. Bank of the Missouri. June. 62. Psoraler esculenta, Pursh. ‘ Prairie turnip’ Near Fort Pierre. May. 42, 43, 68. Astragalus caryocarpus, Ker. Sine fr. Common. May. 24. Astragalus racemosus? Pursh. Elk Horu Prairie. Juue 18. 93. Astragalus (undetermined.) Jane 20. 100. Oxytropis Lamberti, Pursh. Dry bills on the prairie. May 16. 8, 84. Phaca neglecta? Torr & Gr. (Specimen imperfect ) Near Fort Lookout. June 29. 111. Ther nopsis rhombifolia, Nutt. On the Missouri above Fort Union. 92, Lupinus pusillus, Pursh. Upper Missouri. 388.
Prunns americana, Marshall. Middle of May. 14.
Potentilla pennsylvanica, Linn. Low grounds; one hundred and twenty miles above Fort Union. June 19. 96.
Potentilia anserina, Linn. Above Fort Union, 97.
Rosv blanda, A’t. Low grounds and woods; forty miles above Fort Union; very abundant. June 17. 101, 102.
nothera cespitosa, Nutt. Wery common on the sides of barren hills, near Fort Pierre. End of May. BH
Gaura coccinea, Nutt Hills near the river, above the mouth of the Yellowstone. June 15. 79) 789!
Gaura(undetermined.) Perhaps a variety of G, coccinea, Nutt. Near Fort Pierre. June 49.
GROSSULARIACE®, Ribes aureum, Pursh. Bank of the Missouri, near Fort Pierre. May. 15, 69.
UMBELLIFERZ. Nos. 1, 7, and 46, (in fruit,) (andetermined.)
CORNACEX. Cornus stolonifera, Mickx. Abundant on the banks of the Missouri. SOO. . CAPRIFOLIACEZ,. Symphoricarpns, (fol.) Wet grounds along the Missouri. 60, 70, 99. Viburnum lentago, Linn. Abundant on the Missouri. 74. RUBIACEX.
Galinm boreale, Linn, Dry bank on the Missouri fifty miles below the mouth of the Yellows stune. June. 81.

<<<Page: 93>>>

135 wk
Achillea millefolium, Linn. Elk Horn Prarie, and above Milk river. June 18 and 20, 7, 103.
Artemisia frigida, Willd. (fol.) Praire just below Fort Pierre. 23)
Senecio (undetermined ) Common on the Prairies about Fort Pierre. May 30 Cirsum undulatum, Spreng. (fol.) River bank just above Port Pierre, May. 37, Lygodesmnia juncea, Nutt. Opposite Fort Lookout. Juue 29 109.
"Troximun cuspidatuin, Pursh. Wet groand and prairie around Fort Pierre. May 44,
Lysimachia ciliata, Linn. Moist gronnds, Upper Missouri. June 27 114.
Pentstemon (undetermined.) Elk Horn prairie. 90.
Pentstemon (Sp. noc?) Rocky Hill near Fort Pierre. PASyereay.
Castilleja sessititlora, Pursh. Elk thoru) prairie on the Missouri, about eighty miles above Fort Union. June 13 83.
Verbena bracteosa? MWichz, About the holes of the prairie Marmot. May 39, 22. BORAGINACE.XZ.
Lithospermum? Bank of the Missouririver. June (We
Myosots glomerata, Nutt. Near Fort Pierre. May 27, 45
Mertensia (undetermined ) Dry prairies. May 0, 4.
Calystegia sepium, R. Br. Wet grounds on the Missouri, June 27 61, 107.
Apocynum cannabinum, Linn. Moist low grounds, eighty miles above Fort Pierre. June 17 113:
Asclepias Sullivantii, Engelm. Wet meadows on the Missouri; common. May oF
Comandra umbellata, Nutt. Just below Fort Pierre, and bluffs near the mouth of Heart river, May, June 25; 0 le
Salix longifolia, Muhl. (pist. fl) Very comuon. June 52.
Salix, (undetermined.) Stam, fle Abuadant on streams and sand bars; Upper Missouri. May 13:
Populus levigata, Willd.e Valley of the Missouri. S. fl. and fr. dl. IRIDACEZ,
Sisyrinchium bermudiana, Linn. Prairie above Fort Pierre. June 12 106. SMILACEZ.
Smilax herbacea, Linn. (Stam. pl.) Near Port Pierre. May Al,
Smilicina stellata, Desf. Very commen in wet places along the Missonri. June 55. Allium Candetermined.) (fl. only.) Perhaps A stellatum of Geyer’s collection 20.
Tradescantia virginica, Linn, High dry bank justbelow the mouth of Heartriver. June 10 86

<<<Page: 94>>>

ay , a cl] ’ 136
Carex stricta, Lam. Wet sand; Upper Missouri. June 75.
GRAMINIEZ. Elymus, (undetermined.) Elk Horn prairie. June [8 94.
; EQUISETACE. Equisetum arvense, Linn. (Sterile plant.) Common along the Missouri. June 50.
(The Species marked with an asterisk were seen on the lower part of the river; the rest were higher ap towards Fort Union.)
BIRDS, Cathartes aura, Ill. Turkey Buzzard, Buteo swainsoni, By? Common Buzzard. Archibuteo St. Johannis, (Gm.) Black Hawk, Aquila chrysetos, Golden or Ringtailed Eagle. Haletus leucocephalus, Sav. Bald Eagle. Paudion carolinus, Bp. Fish Hawk. * Nauclerus furcatus, Vig. Swatlow tail Hawk, (above Council Bluffs.) Falco peregrinus, L. Duck Hawk. sparverius, L. Sparrow Hawk. Circus uliginosus, Wils. Marsh Hawk. * Athene cunicularia, Bp. Burrowing Owl. Rubo virginianus, Great Horned Owl, the whitish variety. Antrostomus nuttalli, Aud. Poor Will. Chordeiles virginianus, Sw. Night Hawk, Acanthylis pelasgia, ‘Boil. Chimney Swallow. Hirundo purpurea, L. Purple Martin, lunifrons, Say. Clitk Swallow. bicolor, Vieill. White bellied Swallow. rufa, Gn. Barn Swallow. serripennis, Aud. Rough winged Swallow, Tyrannus verticalis, Say. Arkansas Flycatcher. crinitus, Sw. Great crested Flycatcher. tntrepidus, Vieill. Wing Bird. Tyrannula sayt, Sw. Say s. Flycatcher. Selophaga ruticilla. Sw. Redstart. Sylvicola estiva, Sw. Yellow Warbler. Trichas marilandica, Bp. Maryland Yellow Throat. Helinaia peregrina, Aud. ‘Tenuessee Warbler. Minotilta varia, Vieill. Black and White Creeper. Troglodytes obsoletus, Say. Rock Wren. edon, Vieill, House Wren. Parus septentrionalis, Harris. Long tailed Wren. Sialia arctica, Sw. Northern Blue Bird. Mimus carolinensis, L, Cat Bird. rufus, Bp. Brown Thrush. Turdus nigratorius, L. Robin. wilsonti, Bp. ‘Tawney Thrush. Seiurus aurocapillus, Sw. Golden Crowned Thrush, noveboracensis, Bp. Water Thrush. Agrodoma spraguei, Aud. Sprague’s Lark, Otocoris rufus, Western Sky Lark. Plectrophanes pictus, Sw. Smith's Lark. ornatus, Towns. Chesnut-collared Lark. Chondestes grammaca, Bp. Lark Finch. Zonotrichia graminea, Sw. Grass Finch. leucophrys, Sw White crowned Sparrow. * Zonotrichia querula, Nutt, Harris’ Finch,

<<<Page: 95>>>

Spizella pallida, Bp. Clay colored Bunting,
socialis, Bp. Chipping Sparrow.
* Passerculus savanna, Bp, Savannah Sparrow.
* Coturniculus henslowi, Bp. Wenslow’s Bunting, lecontei, Aud, Leconte’s Bunting. bairdu, Aud. Baird’s Bunting,
Spiza amoena, Bp Lazuli Finch.
Carduelis tristis, L. Goldfinch.
Pipilo arcticus Sw. Arctic 'Towhee,
* erythropthalmus, (L.) 'Towhee.
Corydalina bicolor, ( Towns.) White shouldered Sparrow,
* Erythrospiza purpurea. Purple Finch,
Guiraca cocrulea, Sw. Blue Grosbeak, above Council Bluffs.
ludoviciana, Sw. Rose breasted Grosbeak, above Council Bluffs.
melanocephala, Sw. Black headed Grosbeak. * Pyranga rubra, (L.) Veeill. Scarlet Tanager. Dolichonyx oryzivora Sw. Bob Link, Molothrus pecoris, Sw. Cow Bird. Agelaius phoeniceus, Viel, Red wing Blackbird. * ganthocephalus Bp. Yellow headed Biacklird. Icterus baltimore Daud. Hanging Bird. Scolecophagus mexicanus, Sw. Brewer's Blackbird. * Sturnella ludoviciana, Bp, Meadow Lark. neglecta, Aud. Western Lark. Corvus cacalotl, Wagl. Raven. americanus, Aud. Crow. Pica hudsonica, Sab. Magpie. Lanius ludovicianus, L. Loggerhead Shrike. Vireo olivaceus L. Red eyed Vireo. Icteria viridis Bp Chat. Bombycilla carolinensis, Br. Cedar Bird, * Trochilus colubris, L. Hamming Bird. Picus harrisi, Aud. Harris’ Woodpecker. erythrocephalus, LL. Red head Woodpecker, Colaptes auratus, L. Flicker, rubricatus Licht. Red shafted Flicker, ayresti, Aud, Ayres red shafted Flicker. Erythrophrys erythropithalmus, Black billed Cuckoo. * Conurus carolinensis, Kuhl. Parraquet; above Fort Leavenworth Ectopistes migratorius, Sw. Wild Pigeon. carolinensis Sw. Dove. * Meleagris gallopavo, L. Wild Turkey, above Floyd’s bluff. Tetrao urophasianus, Bp. Cock of the Plains. * cupido, L. Prairie Hen, phasianellus, L.. Sharp tailed Prairie Hen. Ortyx virginiana, Steph. Bob White. Fultca americana, Gm. Coot. Charadrius vociferus, (L) WKaildeer. virginiacus, Borck. Bull head Plover. Actitis bartramius. Field Plover. macularius, (L) Bp. Spotted Sandpiper. _Totanus flavipes, Vieill. Yellow Shanks. * Rusticola minor. Woodcock. * Recurvirostra americana, (Gm.) Avoset. Numenius longirostris, Wils. Curlew. Ardea herodias, (LL) Blue Heron. Anser eanadensis (L.) Canada Goose, * hutchinsii, Rich. Hutchin’s Canad@ Goose. *erythropus Bp. White fronted Canada Goose. * hyperboreus, (Pall.) Snow Goose. Cygnus buccenator, Rich. ‘Trumpeter Swan, Anas boschas, (L.) Mallard Duck. strepera, (L.) Gadwall Duek, *acuta, (L.) Sprig-tail Dnek. Anas sponsa, (L.) Summer Duck. * Anas obscura, (Gm.) Black Duck, * elypeata, (L.) Shoveler * Grus americanus, (L.) Whooping Crane. Lasur atricilla,(L.) Black head Gull, Sterna fissipes, (L.) Black Tern.

<<<Page: 96>>>

i ” 88
aie MAMMALIA.
Bos americanus. Buffalo. Cervus canadensis, Say. Elk. macrotis, Say. Black tail Deer. virginianus, (L) Common Deer. Antilope americana, Ord. Antelope. Ovis montana, Desm. Bighorn. Ursus ferox. Grizzly Bear. » * americanus. Brown Bear. Meles labradvria, Sab. Badger. Gulo luscus, Sab. Woiverene. Lupus occidentalis, Rich. White Wolf. latrans, Say, Prairie Wolf. Vulpus velox, Say. Swilt Fox. Mephitis chinga? Skunk. Mustela canadensis. Fisher. Lynx canadensis, Canada Lynx. Castor americanus, Rich. Beaver, Lepus townsendii, Buch. Towusend’s Hare. artemisia, Bach. Wormwood Hare. * sylvaticus 7 Bach. Common Rabbit. * Spermophiius ludevictanus, Say. Prairie Dog. Es [56a _ * tridecemlineatns, Mitch. Prairie Squirrel. Scéurus cinereus, (L) Cat Squirrel. *neger, Black Squirrel. *macrourus, Say. Great tailed Sqnirrel, * Tamias quadrtvittatus. Say. Four lined Ground Squirrel, Neotoma fiorilana, Wood Rat. * Mus musculus, (LL) House Mouse. Hesperomys leucopus? Raf Deer Mouse. Psuedostoma borealis, Rich. Gopher. Hystrix dorsata. Poreupine.
The following new Species are indicated as occurring in this region, by Maximilian Prince de Wied, (Voyage dans l’Amerique du Nord. Paris, 1843. 3 vols. 8 vo.)
Vespertilto ursinus. Fort Union. Hypudeus leucogaster, Mandan Village, Perognatas fuscus. Fort Union,
AN EXPLANATION OF THE TABULAR VIEW OF THE INDIAN TRIBES OF THE UPPER MISSOURI. BY THADDEUS A CULBERTSON, JuLY 1850.
Explanation of the Tabular view of the Sioux Nation of the U. Missouri.
These tables are designed to show the numbers, principal tribes, smaller divisions and couniry of that part of the Sioux Nation living on the Upper Missouri, ‘Phe information has been gathered from Mr Charles Gilpin, of Fort Pierre, trom several Indian chiefs, and has been submitted to the inspection of Mr. Henry Picotte and Mr. Alexander Culbertson, partners ofthe American Fur company, and for many years familiar with the nation referred to, as well as with those higher up the river. The Sioux nation occupies the immense tract of country extending ina south west direction from the Upper Mississippi to the Platte river, and bounded on the West by the Black Hills.
This table does not refer to that part of the nation living on the Mississippi. Three thousand lodges may be relied on as very nearly the correct number of those living on the Missouri, according to the testimony of the best authority, and thirty thousand as nearly the correct number of souls; the average souls per lodge has been put at ten, on the authority of Mr. Picotte, who has had every opportunity of waking a correct estimate. He thinks that eight souls per lodge might not be too low, but he prefers to put the estimate at ten.
The first division of the nation is inte three large tribes: — The Yanktons, the Yanktonnana and the ‘ions or ‘Titonwans. ‘Phese speak the same language and always maintain friendly relations, but they have few interests in common; so far as 1 could learn, they hold towards each other no relation at all analagous to a federal union.

<<<Page: 97>>>

139 i aie)
Each of these tribes is again divided into a great number of small bands, bound together by ties of kindred and affinity ; each of these consists of a single family connection, lives by itself, and regulates its own private concerns. They have no chief possessing the authority which is generally associated with that title, but the men of authority amongst them are those who have gained it by an extensive family connection, by their great wealth, or by their success in war and general character for wisdom. ‘Chere are a number of sach men in each band.
These bands all take names that their own taste may select, or that some circumstance may give them. ‘Those given in the table are by no means the whole nutuber, but they are the principal ones, and are sufficient to illustrate the nature of these divisions ‘The ‘Titons have an intermediate division between these small bands and the larger oues, consisting of seven bands, as marked in the table, the Brules, Blackfeet, &c. There are other associations amongst all the tribes, Which I have not noticed in the table; these are somewhat analogous to the association of Odd Fellows and other secret societies amongst us, having for their object mutual protection and defence. ‘Che country of each tribe has necessarily been assigned by the most general limits. ‘Uhe Sioux nation has no fixed place of residence; the people use skin lodges for their habitations aud are constantly on the move, and their only wealth consists of horses and the buffalo robes that they may procure. ‘The rivers referred to in the table are the ones on some part of whose bisins the tribe generally passes the winter. ‘Che limits between hostile nations inay be tolerably well defined, as they are exceedingly careful not to meet their enemies unless traveling in large bands or 1m war parties.
The list of names that closes the table is intended principally to illustrate their method of naming; these are the names of a few of the principal men in each band, and the same method of naming is employed in everything. It will be seen that alt the names are significant and most probably given to the persons from some circumstanee happening to them, or great feat perfurmed by them. ‘lhe last column is the Indian name spelled as pronounced, as nearly as the ear could catch the sound,
Explanation of the Tabular view of several Indian nations of the Upper Missouri.
Most of the previous remarks apply also to the nations referred to in these tables. I shall here merely note peculiarities. ‘This uation once lived on the Missouri, but has been driven backs gradually by the Sioux people, until their principal range is west of the Black Hills. They speak a distinct langnage, which is so difficult to acquire, that but two or three whites are able to speak it. In 1849 they suffered severely from the cholera; about two hundred lodges being carried off by that disease, ‘The following are the names of two of their principal men. Yellow Wolf—Sha-ga-inan-to g’hi. Mad Bull—To-tun-cha-ga-nun-tchi-ah.
This people differs from most other tribes in using dirt lodges and living ina permanent village, Their village is located at Fort Clarke, on the west bank of the Missouri, little above forty-seven degrees of North latitude, T'hey inhabit this during the whole of the year, except a part of the winter months ‘hey raise large quantities of corn. which differs very inuch from that raised in our fields, but none of our vegetables have reached thei yet. The tees were once a large nation, but within the last thirty years, pestilence, disease and war have rednced their numbers very greatly. This has almost broken up these large family connections that constitute the bands amongst the Sioux and the bands of Rees in the table, are those smaller associations mentioned in page
This is the remnant of quite a large band that was almost exterminated by the small pox in 1838 or 1839. ‘Their depopulated village was taken possession of by the Rees who now hold it and they themselves became partly incorporated with the Rees and other tribes, excepting a few who have a small village, five miles above that of the Rees. They are again increasing very slowly, and are said to a brave people. ‘hey speak a distinct language.
Mr. Joseph Desautel, of Fort Clarke, is my authority fur the numbers of the Ree nation,
; The Indian name for this nation is Minnetaree—people of the Willows. Like the Rees they live ina permanent village and cultivate the land; their village is at Fort Berthold, on the east side of the Missouri, seventy-tive miles above the Ree village. ‘They have lately enclosed it with good pickets, ta protect themselves from their enemies, and are said to be anxious to adopt the arts of civilized life. ‘fhe bands here, as with the Rees, are not formed by family con

<<<Page: 98>>>

nections, but are voluntary associations and consist of persons of the same age. The Black ‘Tail Deer band consists of very old men, and the other bands of ages in a descending series to the Foxes, which is a band of very young men.
Mr. Kipp, of Fort Bethold, is my authority here.
This isa large wandering tribe, ranging in a very extensive country north of the Missouri, extending far into British America, and lying east of the Blackfoot country. he larger part trades with the British company, and only about six hundred lodges trade with the Americans, ‘Lheir name signifies the Stoue People. Their language is kindred to the Sioux.
This is a large nation inhabiting the country drained by the Yellowstone. It is divided into two large villages or bands, and these are again divided into bands formed of family connections ; the connections are here counted on the mothers’ side instead of the fathers’. he Crow people are very brave andare great warriors. They and the Gros Ventre nation speak the same language.
Mr. Meldrum, who has lived for twenty-five years amongst the Crows, 1s my authority here. Tie makes twelve souls the average number to a lodge amongst this people, as it is well known tha: they have more toa lodge than any other nation. It will be noticed that the average varies in each nation.
This is also a large and very warlike nation, living north of the Missouri, and partly in the British dominions. Its minor divisions are not well ascertained, because only a part trade with the Americans, and they generally come to the Fort in very large numbers. The division into North and South Blackfeet is probably a division made by the traders for their own convenience. The first three divisions speak the same language, but the Gros Ventre du Prairie, although fully incorporated with the Blackfoot nation, speak a different tongue, said to be the same as that of the Arapahoes on the Arkansas.
Mr. Malcom Clark, of Fort Benton, is my authority.

<<<Page: 99>>>

L—] — "Yey-Ry-aT] “UIOTT Pay yy, “yRy-oyhe Ty ‘SULLY ALO ST ay, "BS}-I-NYO}-V1-k fA] “qhy Seog ayy, “19119501 "oys-vys-yel-G 99] any M 24, ],/e5uRt spueg asol, J, *Yeo-1Y9}-0}“yy “IVI OWT] og. Pystaau ast ayer ‘oa *1-Jaq-YRM-I-NYD T ‘Apog 8,o[5R yy ay Li-tt pun09 mb nv 7 Le YNQ-Fy-Hyyun-1y9-v Ay ‘apunyf, ey ay = = a
‘ropidg att Ad Oty, “LINOSSITA, OT ‘yrd-qou-oj-v [q sino OM) aU,T, JO AOU pure S00} “dinu-uoo0Yy-u Fy ‘aanpyooN ouog ayy} yur ay1 Jo sa AQ id-po-nyar-(e-4y UT, ot} sjjor wy? ouo ayy, ‘urieny-e-td-v py] -puolyg pay ey, *Av -Yal-qns-0}-v [4 civag Ayumg ay ‘sanbor poy ‘d-ud-v-1u-e}-vg [99g oy) SoyLIs jy au aYy,T|taATI at jo uiseg
“souIRNY UPIpUy ALOT, suayy pedioung “AIWUNOD
. “AL1V9 JY) OSOU,T, *smoq peq AUT,
Syouq a108 dt 7,
*pneq atnoy Advays ony, |
‘ajdoad aavjyoau Jwam Ysaty sajdoed qnojo yooesg JIE ET
‘purq uvur aulolpam SfIAe(] Ou, ‘plug 1ayywaf AVOID OIL J,
"ysvy]_ oq} 0} ixau duro JVU) esoy,yT, *sauo SUMO] peq at,
"solo payooy yor[q ayy
*sadnog sap—s\y ouT,
“a[Pplul ay} Ul UALOG asoyy,
*suLIy peq ay
‘saYsip Iq) [10g IVI) asoU,L, ‘sasloy pasoo] SIq oyL
‘ajdoad yeam palloiq aq, ‘sunqdig ay.L
‘sursvayd IL,
‘soutd ay} Ur yooYs IVY) esou,T, “paaty eu Avay at L
rajdoad ajog ayy,
esadnoy sajay,—spray uo au, ‘ornyng Ou syea yey) purg
“yooo 1,U0p yvqy purg
‘asaes OU Ss}Ra yey) purg
‘s}uSt, ayy jo purg
‘spurg jedioung
*saSpoy 0k yed-vd-youg
‘saSpol (Ch
Oo Ooo" aa
‘OS8I ‘G@ ‘V ‘IMMOSSIN UTddn AHL NO NOLLYN XNOIS GHL dO MATA UVINAVL V
* JoQsorlg Hoi 08%% udp *s[nos 000‘0S (inoqe) ‘soZpo| (00S (uoqge)(‘unossi fq U0) *xnolg "sas por 00G | sajnig "saSpo] 0GE UvUUO} UL A ‘sopol 00S ‘UOyyUue A ‘saquyy, qus *SOqLT, "MONE NT >

<<<Page: 100>>>

*yud-o7 vyy
*pYys-RU'eYd-UIN}-O J, “IY Yreqeue AA
“YRys ey
“yes ap BU OUIU BAA
Yay Eup Rs BOS) LAA iared vubiyp uno ey "YRY-B-IM-15-U09 |
*39M-YO-YRYL-9 AA yey-ny-yeys-yQ) “Yey Ol
‘sauiedy UeIpay sayy,
ULI VULOIpo ly aU yT
uaz jedioung
“siveg? Ino, ayy, |
‘a ON
‘parq eq WoYs oy, “purq anpoy pad aug, *pueq pnops iyo aug, *purg vorjyooU Uys plo at y, *purq 1alRM pat auf, *paurq Ye[eaGQ ayy, ‘wey ey) Wa IVY] eso T, pueg farm pat au, “sory sarge aq],
yea yp vB vfey
"ping Sureva toys au J, *sHOp OU {va yey) OsOy T. “SAl{} VYI AAALL OY f,
ssparg jedioung
saspo |
‘UOT, f “xnolg soSpol OG% | diy surg sas pol LZ | eyss-Wo0d-1UI | ‘SOqILT, qug saquyy, | “UONeN
‘dT ANILNO) — : NOLLYN XOOIS CHL tO MATA

<<<Page: 101>>>

a — ea
‘yrjooyra IO XNOIg at} 0} poipulry aornsuey
AIVUNOD OOFAOT . ay} jo ysva pue ‘tnosstyy ay} Jo YWON
‘ppoywwog Woy ye “yArypD JO AAOGR SaTIU VAY AquaAos “LINOSSI AT oy} JO YuRq seo sy} UO IHRT[LA JUIULULIO
*MOIN at} 0} peipury asensur'y
‘QORITIA dz oY} VAOqe
Qa ‘yOUTSIP ooRNnouUR eee ‘T SO, OY} WO AT[RULSIIG)
A ong a eadiaiieal | “STTLH orp ey} JO ysom Aypediouttg
a —— gO n\n SO — LOO een eee
‘ISDNGUD'T *fhaqunoy
| ey} uo apeuz pueq puepp yor oun $009 (ye ut) pueq vsoury oy, | SASpoT OO‘T “ouLOqIUISsSy
Slogq, oo 7
syynouLyoryg_ s[[ug oy} Jo purg pueq paoig eA eq pureq JOM MOTTIR OL, pueg Latpfog 6oq oy,
sInog 90e‘T S9SpOT 00G ‘go1VOTIY
‘s[NOS 000°E ‘saspo'T OOS ‘guuasoy
Ne rr ONY tar
‘OGST ‘A ‘V ‘IMNOSSIN WHddA AHL NO ‘SNOILVN NVIGNI TVUGAGS dO MATA UVTNAVL

<<<Page: 102>>>

sooyuedesy at} 0} porpury > PIULD)LIISD JOA 4 IATBIG NP 243UI A BOL | pureg oung Moy oly, | qoulstp asensuey : ArjuN09 suespotg Apoorg ayy, (sueseg poounou JUTOIUISSY JO JSoA Be OAL your 1,uop yey} adoog eyJ,4 -noid) ‘suespotg ayy,
WMOSsTfA, 94} JO YOU ALQUNLOL) Seva THVT IL suespatg Yyyto
| (jnoqe) stnos 999°6 ; apis}no 9y} UO ATeFT YIM soqoy od | | N | | |
| “SaBPOT YOST
r O04 Pr suRIpuy poorg oy, |
qouysIp soensur'y pueq standaq eqy,
SloyVy YSty ayy, yooyyory_ yNog POOP CLL THON
“ = OF) OY URoLlowy
a Of) eq Ss Sota | Uy M IPRLT, pOOPpeyl_ aLL
"Soy MDUay “spung “Saque,], | ( suvtpuy PIES 20 .PErd. AT[VULSIIO ): S10831(] yoo" — | x SOSIOF]{ MOYIIM saspo] oy, — = ATPg ey ut xory — a re | vs-joq-diyg — + H rai 5 2 . rth ibis as, bi ae cea OL = inaees ( qnoqe ) sqnos 90g‘F [2 at} fo ( sueipuy 39,7 orp Ayyeutstio ) . dnog peg — ‘sa Bpo| 00F Mo poy —
asensueyiuiseq oy y, ‘MOID
J9Y}9.50} VSO[VUIS ZT OZUL (‘stayons-deg) ‘t1ad-yas-aurpy
poeplarp are spueq OM} VAOqe dT, aed * MOI) — r aspnsuny| ‘hujunog ‘spupg "SUOUIDAS Bes oS 2
7 ‘CAANILNO) —? MATA UVINGVL — “a

<<<Page: 103>>>

. 145 9 ,
Si0UX,= -+--+ eter re eee erence ee ere ce eee ee eee eee ee ee 30,000 Cheyene, -----------2-222 rrr r rrr ent tern eee ener errr ee ee 3,000 Ariccaree,-------+--+ cr rrr rrr re cere errr cere ee ee eee eee ---1,500 Mandan,----------------------2-2-2022 ee reer eee eee 150 Gros Ventres,------------++--222 ere reer rr rrr reer eee e reece eee 700 Assiniboine, ------------+----+---+-+--------------------------4,800 Crow, --+ rrr reer rer rr rrr errr rr rete ee eee eee reer ee4,800 Blackfoot,---------------------------------------------eee 9,600 Probable number of Indians on the Upper Missouri,
and its tributaries--=++-+---+--------2202222 294,550
Mis.—10.

<<<Page: 104>>>

gre 146
APPEN DIXIE O LIBR ARYANS JR EPO Rae.
—_——_
Copy-right Publications deposited prior to 1850.
LIST of Books, Maps, Charts, Musical Compositions, §c. delivered to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, from August 10, 1846, to December 31, 1849; in compliance with the following requirement of the Act of Congress, approved August 10, 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution.
*¢ Section 10. And be it further enacted, That the author or proprietor of any Book, Map, Chart, Musical Composition, Print, Cut or Engraving, for which a copy right shall be secured under the existing acts of Congress, or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copy rights, shall, within three months from the publication of said Book, Map, Chart, Musical Composition, Print, Cut, or Engraving, deliver, or cause to be delivered, one copy of the same to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, and one copy to the Librarian of Congress Library, for the use of the said Libraries.”
Part i= BOOKS: < JI.— MUSICAL COMPOS;TIONS. ‘ TII.— MAPS, PRINTS, &c. &c.
Asgott (Jacob,) History of Alexander the Great, with engravings: 12mo 278p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 : deposited by Harper & Brothers.
History of Hannibal the Carthagenian, with engravings : 12mo 295p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849 : deposited by Harper & Brothers.
History of Julius Cesar, with engravings: 12mo 278p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
History of King Alfred of England, with engravings : 12mo 2705 — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849: deposited by Barver ¢ Brothers.
History of Mary Queen of Scots, with engravings: 12mo 286p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848: deposited by Harper & Brothers.

<<<Page: 105>>>

147 |
Axssorr (Jacob) History of Queen Elizabeth, with engravings: 12mo 281p; New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Ea of King Charles the First, of England, with engravings: 12mo 285p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 : deposited by Harper & Brothers.
History of Charles the Second of England, with engravings: 12mo 3804p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
A Summer in Scotland, with engravings: Svo 331p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Aspott (John S. C, ) Kings and Queens ; or Life in the Palace ; consisting of historical sketches of Josephine, Maria Louisa, Louis Phillippe, Ferdinand of Austria, Nicholas, Isabella iis Leopold and Victoria: 12mo 312p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
History of Maria Antoinette, with engravings: 12mo 322p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Apams (Daniel, M. D.) Book Keeping; containing a lucid explanation of the common method of book keeping by single entry ; a new, Concise and common sense method of book keeping, for farmers, mechanics, retailers and professional men, &c. &c., designed for schools and academies : 8vo large, 141p — Keene, published by
J. W. Prentiss & Co., 1849 : deposited by J. Homer French.
Primary Arithmetic ; or Mental Operations in Numbers ; being an introduction to the revised edition of Adams’ new arithmetic, designed for schools and academies: 12mo0 180p — Keene, published by J. W. Prentiss & Co. 1848: deposited by J. Homer French.
Key to Adams’s New Arithmetic, revised edition, for the use of teachers: 12mo 88p — Keene, published by J. W. Prentiss & Co., 1848: deposited by Daniel Adams.
Adams’s New Arithmetic, in which the principles ot operating by numbers are analy tically explained, and synthe tically applied, illustrated by copious examples; revised edit:on, designed for the use of schools and academies: 12mo 306p — Keene, published by J. W. Prentiss & Co. 1848: deposited by Daniel Adams.
Apams (Mrs.) Letters of Mrs. Adams, the wife of John Adams, with an introductory memoir, by her grandson Charles Francis Adan s ; fourth edition, revised and enlarged, with an appendix, conta ning the letters addressed by John Adams, to his son Jchn Quincy Adams, on the study of the bible: 12mo 472p — Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1848: ceposiet by Charles Francis Adams.
Avams (Rev. W., M. A) The King’s Messengers, an allegorical tale ; from the London edition, with engravings, executed by Ww.

<<<Page: 106>>>

rh} 148°
Howland, from original designs by Weir: 12mo 141p — New York, published by the General Protestant Episcopal Sabbath School Union, 1848: deposited by J. W. Mitchell.
Apams (Rev. W., M. A.) The Old Man’s Home; with engravings, from original designs by Weir: 12mo 108p— New York, published by the General Protestant Episcopal Sabbath School Union, 1848 : deposited by J. W. Mitchell.
Agassiz (Louis) and Goutp (Augustus A.) Principles of Zoélogy : touching the structure, development, distribution and natural arrangement of the races of animals, living and extinct, with numerous illustrations, for the use of schools and colleges ; Part I, Comparative Physiology: 12mo 216p — Boston, published by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 1848 : deposited by Gould, Kendal! & Lincoln.
Acnes Morris, or the Herione of domestic life: 12mo 143p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
ALAMANCE 3 or the great and final experiment: 8vo pamphlet 15p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Aupen (Joseph, D. D.) The Dying Robin and other tales: 12mo 212p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
The Lawyer’s Daughter, illustrated by H. W. Hewet: 12mo 186p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
_ Alice Gordon, or the uses of Orphanage ; with ten illustrations : 16mo 198p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
The Young Schoolmistress: 16mo 157p— N. Y., published by Harper & Brothers: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Auriert (Vittorio,) The Tragic Poet. The autobiography of Alfieri, born at Asti,1749, died at Florence, 1803, translated, with an original essay on the genius and times of Alfieri, by C. Edwards
Lester: 12mo 269p — New York, published by Paine & Burgess: deposited by Paine & Burgess.
Ausop (Samuel,) First lessons m Algebra, in which the elements of the science are familiarly explained: 12mo 116p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1849: deposited by Samuel Alsop.
An elementary treatise on Algebra, in which the principles of the science are familiarly explained, and illustrated by numerous examples, designed for the use of schools: 12mo 288p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1846 : deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.
AMERICAN QuarterRLy Recister , A Recitative Poem, on events of revolutionary times, dedicated to the American people, with historical notes and memoranda, illustrative of the truth of the poem, in five cantos: Svo 40p — Philadelphia, 1849: deposited by John M. Crosland.
American Autmanac and Repository of Useful Knowledge for the year 1850: 12mo 548p — Boston, Published by C. "C. Little & J. Brown, 1849; deposited by G. P. Sanger & F. E. Parker.
Anprews (S. P.) and Boyir, (Augustus F.)) The Primary Phonotypic Reader for the use of schools and families; intended as introductory exercises in analyzing spelling and reading for children and educated adults: 12mo 385p— New York, published by Andrews & Boyle, 1847; deposited by Andrews & Boyle.
The Phonographic Word-book, No 1, containing all the monosyllables of the English language, inductively ‘arranged and classified according to the words in which they should be written in Phonography, together with rules and explanations ; designed immediately to succeed the Phonographic Class Book and the Phonographic Reader: 16mo 52p—N. York, published by Andrews & Boyle, 18495; deposited by Andrews & Boyle.
The Phonographic Reader ; a complete course of inductive reading lessons in Phonography, eleventh edition; 12mo 6Up — New York, published by Andrews & Boyle, 1848 ; deposited by Andrews & Boyle.
The Phonographic Reporter’s First Book; containing a complete list of words — signs used in the most contracted style of Phonographic reporting; illustrated by exercises for the use of those only who have thoroughly mastered the corresponding style of Phonography, as taught in the complete Phonographic Class Book and the Phonographic Reader: 12mo 287p: New York, published by Andrews & Boyle, 1848; deposited by Andrews & Boyle.
The complete Phonographic Class Book, containing a strictly inductive exposition of Pitman’s Phonography, adapted as a system of Phonetic short hand to the English language, especially intended as a school book and to afford the fullest instruction to those who have not the assistance of the living teacher; eleventh edition: 12mo 131p— New York, published by Andrews & Boyle, 1848; deposited by Andrews & Boyle.

<<<Page: 107>>>

Liq 150
AncGeE.t (Joseph K.) A treatise on the law of Carriers of goods and _passengers by land and by water: 8vo 791p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849; deposited by J. K. Angell.
Treatise on the right of property in tide waters, and in the soil and shores thereof; second edition, revised, corrected and much enlarged: 8vo 475p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847; deposited by J. K. Angell.
Ancet (Oliver, A. M.) Angell’s Reader, No. 1, The Child’s First book, complete in six numbers, new edition: 12mo72p— Phila., pub. by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler.
Angell’s Reader, No. 2, The Child’s Second book, new edition: 12mo 1386p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler.
Angell’s Reader, No. 3, The Child’s Third book, new edition: 12mo 206p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
Angell’s Reader, No. 4, The Child’s Fourth book, new edition: 12mo 252p— Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
Angell’s Fifth Reader, new edition: 12mo 296p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler.
Angell’s Reader, No.6; The Select Reader, new edition: 12mo 504p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849; depositedby E. H. Butler.
ANTHON ( Charles, LL. D.) A system of Ancient and Medieval Geography ; 8vo (large ) 765p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Key to Anthon’s Latin Prose Composition: 12mo 94p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Arirumetic, Multum in Parvo: 8vo 4p.
Arruur (T.S.) The Beautiful Widow: 8vo (pamphlet ), 103p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Debtor and Creditor, a Tale of the Times: 12mo 180p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Making Haste to be Rich, or, The Temptation and Fall: 16mo 170p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Retiring from Business, or, The Rich Man’s Error: 16vo 166p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Wreaths of Friendship, a gift for the young, by T. S. Arthur and F. C. Woodworth: 12mo 240p— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.

<<<Page: 108>>>

151 (iq
Artuur (T. 8S.) Riches have Wings, or, a Tale for the Rich and the Poor: 16mo 192p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1847 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
AsuMEAD (Catharine Forrester) Fallings from a Lady’s Pen: 8vo 85p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by C. F. Ashmead.
Baker (A. R.) The Catechism tested by the Bible, in two parts: part 1, Doctrinal; part 2, Practical: part 1, 16mo 116p, part 2, 141p; — Boston, published by John P. Jewett, 1849; deposited by As. RS ‘Baker.
BaLtpwin (Rey. P. C.) The Redemption of sinners by the Free Grace of God, or, the Doctrines of unconditioned Election, Perseverance of the Saints, Assurance, Hope, Sanctification and Glorification freely discussed: 12mo 298p— published by Henry Perkins, Philadelphia, 1849.
Baptist Almanac and Annual Register for the year of our Lord 1850 — Thomas S. Malcom, Editor: 8vo 36p — Philadeiphia American Baptist Publication Society.
Barer (J. W.) Incidents in American History, compiled from the most approved authorities: 12mo 404p — New York, published by George F. Cooledge & Brother, 1847; deposited by Cooledge & Brother.
Barzour (Oliver L.) Reports of cases in Law and Equity in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Vols. 1, 2,3: S8vo large, Vol. 1, 720p; Vol. 2, 723p; Vol. 3, 696p — Albany, published by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1848; deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould.
Reports of cases argued and determined in the court of Chancery of the State of New York, Vols. 1 and 3: 8vo Vol. 1, 707p; Vol. 3, 702p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co. 1847; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Barnarp (Daniel D.) Discourse on the life and character of Stephen Van Rensselear: 8vo 144p — Albany.
Barnes (Albert) Questions on the First Epistle to the Corinthians, designed for Bible classes and Sunday schools, adapted to the author’s notes on that Epistle: 16mo 163p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Barr (Robert T.) Pennsylvania State Reports; Vol. 5, containing cases adjudged in the Supreme Court, during part of December term 1846, March term, and part of June term 1847, and some previous cases, Vol. 6, containing cases adjudged during part of May term, July term, and part of September term 1847. Vol. 7, containing cases adjudged during part of September term and December term 1847, and: March term 1848. Vol. 8, containing cases adjudged during May term and part of July term 1848. Vol. 9, containing cases adjudged during part of July term, September term and part of December term 1848: S8vo  152
5595p; Vol. 9, 553p — Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson.
Barrett (Solomon, Jr.,) The Principles of Grammar, being a compendious treatise on the languages, Enghsh, Latin and Greek, founded on the immutable principle of the relation which one word sustains to another; revised edition: 12mo 204p — Albany, published by Joel Munsell, 1848; deposited by S. Barrett, Jr.
Bartvett (Elisha, M. D.) The History, Diagnosis and Treatment of the fevers of the United States; 8vo large, 547p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Barton (Charles) History of a suit in equity from its commencement to its termination; revised and enlarged, with forms of bills, plans, demurers and decrees, by James P. Holcombe, with an appendix containing the ordinances of Lord Bacon, Rules of practice m Equity in the Circuit court of the United States and the English Orders in Chancery: 8vo large, 279p — Cincinnati, published by Derby, Bradley & Co., 1847; deposited by Derby, Bradley & Co. :
Bates (David) The Eolian: 12mo 210p— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Beck (Lewis C., M. D.) Botany of the United States north of Virginia, comprising descriptions of the flowering and fern-like plants, hitherto found in those states; second edition, revised and enlarged: 12mo 471p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers ;. deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Adulterations of various substances used in medicine and the arts, with the means of detecting them: 12mo 333p — New York, published by Samuel S. & William Wood, 1846 ; deposited by Lewis C. Beck, M. D.
Beecuer (Charles) The Incarnation, or, Pictures of the Virgin and her Son, with an introductory essay, by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe; 16mo 227p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Beecuer (Edward, D. D.) Baptism, with reference to its import and modes ; 12mo 342p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by Edward Beecher, D. D.
Beixnap (Jeremy, D. D.) Life of Jeremy Belknap, Historian of New Hampshire, with selections from his correspondence and other writings, collected and arranged by his grand-daughter: 12mo 253p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Bex (John, M. D.) and Sroxes (William, M. D.) Lectures on the theory and practice of Physic, fourth edition, revised and enlarged, two volumes: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 784p; Vol. 2, 976p — Philadelphia, published by Edward Barrington & George D. Has well, 1848; deposited by Barrington & Haswell.

<<<Page: 109>>>

153 [ig
Benepicr (David) A general history of the Baptist denomination in America and other parts of the world; third thousand: &vo  970p — New York, published by Lewis, Colby & Co., 1848; deposited by Lewis, Colby & Co.
Benner (Enos) Das neue Buchstabir und Lesebuch zum Gebrauch Deutscher Volksschulen in Pennsy Ivanien und anderen Staaten : 16mo 144p — Sumneytown, printed by Samuel Diehl for Enos Benner, 1848; deposited by E. Benner.
Bennett (James Arlington) The American system of Practical Book-keeping, twenty-eighth edition: S8vo large, 160p— published by M. H. Newman, N. York, 1848 ; deposited by Sophia Bennett.
Bent tey (Rensselaer) The Pictorial Reader: 12mo 239p— New York, published by G. T. Cooledge & Brother; deposited by R. Bentley.
Bentz (L) Elements of Agriculture, for the use of primary and secondary schools, by L. Bentz of France and A. J. Chretien de Roville: approved and recommended by the Governmental Council of the department of the Meurthe. ‘Translated and adapted to the use of the rural primary schools of the United States of America, by F. G. Skinner; 16mo 91p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by F. G. Skinner.
Betuune (George W., D. D.) The History of a Penitent, a guide for the enquiring : 12mo 264p — Philadelphia, published by Henry Perkins, 1848; deposited by G. W. Bethune, D. D. :
The British Female Poets, with biographical] and critical notices: 8vo (large) 490p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Biery (Cantell A.) Aurifodina, or, Adventures in the Gold Region: 12mo 103p — New York: published by Baker & Scribner, , 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Biscnorr (T. L. G., D. M.) Tracts on Generation, translated from the German, by C. R. Gilman, M. D., and Theodore Tellkampf, M. D., number 1, proofs that the periodic maturation and discharge of ova are in the mammalia, and the human female, independent of coition, as the first condition of their propagation, by 'T. L. G. Bischoff, D. M., professor of Physiology, &c., Giessen ; pamphlet 8vo 65p — New York, aes by Samuel Seed William Wood, 1847; deposited by S S. & Wm. Wood.
Buacxstone (Sir William, Kt.) Commentaries on the Laws of England, in four volumes with notes, adapting the work to the American student, by John L. W ende ll; Svo (large) — New York, published by Harper & Brothers ; deposited by Harper & "Bros.
Buaxe (Rey. J. L., D. D.) The Juvenile Companion and Fire Side Reader : 12mo 252p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers : deposited by J. L. Blake.
A History of the American Revolution, first published in London under the. superintendence of the Society for

<<<Page: 110>>>

[iq 154
the diffusion of useful Knowledge: 16mo 252p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Buanc (Lewis) History of the French Revolution of 1789, translated from the French, one volume in two parts: 8vo 582p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Buont (Joseph) The Shipmasters’ Assistant and Commercial Digest — New York, Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by J. Blunt.
Boarpman (A) A defence of Phrenology: 12mo 222p— New York, published by Edward Kearney, 1847; deposited by A. Boardman.
Boxer (George H.) Anne Boleyn, a tragedy: 12mo 225p— Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, late Carey & Hart; deposited by G. H. Boker.
Calaynos, a tragedy, second edition: 12mo 218p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1848; deposited by G. H. Boker.
Booru (James C., and Morrir) Campbell,) The Encyclopedia of Chemistry, theoretical and practical, with numerous engravings, (Nos. 14 and 15 only received): 8vo large — Philadelphia published by Carey & Hart; deposited by Carey & Hart.
The Phonographic Instructor, with engraved illustrations : 12mo 78p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849 ; deposited by J. C. Booth.
Boston Massacre,—A short narrative of the horrid massacre in Boston, perpetrated in the evening of the 5th day of March, 1770, by soldiers of the 29th regiment: 8vo large, 122p— printed by order of the town of Boston, in 1770; re-published at New York with notes and illustrations, by John Doggett, Jr., 1849; deposited by John Doggett, Jr.
Bostwick (Homer, M. D.) A complete practical work on the nature and treatment of venereal diseases: 4to 547p— New York, published by Burgess, Stringer & Co., 1848 ; deposited by H. Bostwick.
Povvier (John) A Law Dictionary, adapted to the Constitution and Laws of the United States of America, and of the several States of the American Union; third edition much improved and enlarged, two volumes; 8vo (large) Vol. 1, 756p; Vol. 2, 757p — Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson; deposited by J. Bouvier.
Bowen (Mark Noble) Memoranda on Anatomy, Surgery and Physiology : 16mo 325p — New York, published by Samuel S. & Wilham Wood, 1848; deposited by Samuel S. & William Wood.
Boyp (Rey. J. K.) Eclectic Moral Philosophy : 12mo 423p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Bricutiy (Frederick C) A Practical Treatise on the Law of Costs in Pennsylvania: 8vo large, 412p — Philadelphia, published by James

<<<Page: 111>>>

Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1847; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.
Bricutiy (Frederick C.) Supplement to Purdon’s Digest: S8vo large, 100p — Philadelphia; deposited by F. C. Brightly.
Brispane (William Henry) Slaveholding examined in the light of the Holy Bible: 16mo 222p — published at Philadelphia, 1847.
Brooks (N. C.) A complete History of the Mexican War, its causes, conduct, and consequences, illustrated and explained by maps, plans of battles, views and portraits: Svo large, 558p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849; deposited by Hutchinson & Seabold.
Brown (James) An English Grammar in three books, (second book only received): 12mo 3887p — Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange, 1849; deposited by James Brown.
The first round in the ladder of Education: 12mo 3836p — Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange, 1849; deposited by James Brown.
The second round in the ladder of Education: 12mo 120p — Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange, 1849; deposited by James Brown.
Browne (D. G.) The Trees of America, native and foreign, pictorially and botanically delineated, and scientifically and popularly described: 8vo large, — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Browne (J. Ross) Etchings of a Whaling Cruise, with notes of a sojourn on the Island of Zanzibar, to which is appended a brief history of the whale fishing, its past and present condition, illustrated
Fe with numerous engravings on steel and wood; 8vo large — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Bryant (William Cullen) Poems, with illustrations, by E. Leutze, engraved by American artists, second edition — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by W. C. Bryant.
Buuutons (Rev. Peter, D. D.) Practical lessons in English Grammar and Composition, being an introduction to the Principles of English Grammar, eighth edition revised: 12mo 152 p— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1844; deposited by P. Bullions.
The principles of English Grammar, nineteenth edition, revised and corrected: Bvo 216p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1846; deposited by P. Bullions.
An Analytical and Practical Grammar of the English language: 12mo 240p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1849; deposited by P. Bullions.
The principles of the Latin Grammar, fourteenth edition: 8vo 312p— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1846; deposited by P. Bullions.

<<<Page: 112>>>

{3 156 i.
Buuutons (Rev. Peter, D. D.) The principles of the Greek Grammar, twelfth edition revised and improved: S8vo 312p—N. York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by Peter Bullions.
A Greek Reader, with notes critical and explanatory, second edition revised and corrected: 8vo 5389p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1546: deposited by P. Bullions.
The first part of Jacob’s Latin Reader, adapted to Bullion’s Latin Grammar, sixth edition revised and corrected: Svo 3386p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1846; deposited by P. Bullions.
The first six books of Cesar’s Commentaries on the Gallic War, adapted to Bullion’s Latin Grammar, fourth edition revised and corrected: 8vo 5312p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by P.
Bullions.
Burpverr (Charles, Esq.) Arthur Martin, or, the Mothers’ Trials: 16mo ‘ 225p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
The Gambler, or, the Policeman’s Story: 16mo 179p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner. Burxuarpt (C. B.) Fairy Tales and Legends of Many Nations, selected newly told and translated : 12mo $ 277p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Burxeien (Joseph Bartlett, A. M.) The American Manual, containing a brief outline of ‘the origin and progress of political power and the laws of nations, a “Commentary on the Constitution of the United States, and a lucid exposition of the duties and_responsibilities of oe jurors, magistrates, &c.: 12mo — Philadelphia, Grigg, Elliot & Co. , 1848; with an appendix of d4p ; deposited by JB. Burleigh.
Burton (W. C.) Waggeries and Vagaries, a series of sketches, humorous and descriptive, with eight original illustrations by Darly, (two copies); 12mo 191p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Busunetyi (Horace) God in Christ, three discourses delivered at New Haven, Cambridge and "Andover, with a prelimmary disserta-
tion on language : 12mo 356p — Hartford, published by Brown & Parsons, 1849; deposited by H. Bushnell.
Butier (Philip) Hobart’s Analysis of Bishop Butler’s Analogy of religion, natural and revealed to the constitution and course of nature, with notes; also, Chanfurd’s questions for examination; 12mo 228p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Catoric — Origin, matter and law of the Universe: 8vo (large) 65p — New Orleans, 1847.
Camppect (Mrs. Maria) Revolutionary services and civil life of General

<<<Page: 113>>>

157 ri]
William Hull, by his daughter, with the History of the campaign of 1812, and surrender of Detroit: Svo large — New York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1848; deposited by E. F. Campbell.
Camppety (William W.) The border warfare of New York, during the Revolution, or, the annals of Tryon county: 12mo 3936p — New York, published by Baker and Scribner, 18493; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Life and writings of De Witt Clinton; S8vo 5381p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Carry (Alice and Phebe) Poems: 12mo 264p— Philadelphia, published by Moss & Brother, 1850; deposited by Moss & Brother.
Carey (Henry C.) The Past, the Present, and the Future: 12mo 474p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by H. C. Carey.
Cartron (James Henry) The Battle of Buena Vista, with the operations of the ‘ Army of Occupation’? for one month: 16mo 238p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposite by Harper & Brothers.
Catecuism of the Protestant Episcopal Church, simplified by question and answer, by a member of the diocese of South Carolina; 16mo 45p — New York, published by the General Protestant Episcopal Sunday School Union, 1846.
Cuambers (William and Robert.) Chambers educational course, edited by D. M. Reese, M. D.
No. 1 — Treasury of knowledge, in three parts, by W. & R. Chambers; Part 1, elementary lessons in common things: 90p. Part 2, practical lessons in common objects; 167p. Part 3, introduction to the Sciences, L56p.
No. 2— Elements of drawing in two parts, by John Clark, 48p. Exercises, 187p.
No. 3 — Elements of Natural Philosophy, by W. & R. Chambers; Part 1, laws of matter and motion, 98p. Part 2, Mechanics, 108p. Part 3, hydrostatics, hydraulics and pneumatics, LO7p.
No. 4— Chemistry and Electricity, 411p. Part 1, Chemistty; by B.D. Reid. Part 2, Electricity, by Alexander
ain.
No. 5 — Elements of Physiology, by G. Hamilton; Part 1, Vegetable, 162p. Part 2, Animal, 144p.
No. 6 — Elements of Zoélogy, 5535p.
No. 7 — Elements of Geology, by D. Paige, 3382p.
7 volumes 12mo — New York, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849% deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.
Cuapman (J. G.) American Drawing Book, No. 3: perspective 4to 158p — New York, published by J. S. Redfield ; deposited by J. G. Chapman.
American Drawing Book, No. 2, Elementary: 4to 112p ~New York, published by J. S. Redfield, 1847; deposited by
J. G, Chapman.

<<<Page: 114>>>

CuaseE (Stephen) A Treatise on Algebra, for the use of Schools and Colleges: 12mo 385p — New York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1849; deposited by S. Chase.
CHEEVER (Rev. Henry T.) The Whale and his captors, or, the Whaleman’s Adventures, and the Whale’s biography, with engravings : 16mo 314p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
CuEEveER (George B., D. D.) Windings of the river of the Water of Life in the development, discipline and fruits of Faith: 12mo 3884p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by G. B. Cheever.
The Hill Difficulty, and some experiences of life in the plains of Ease, with other miscellanies:.12mo 3883p — New York, published by John Wiley, and at London by Sims, 1849 ; deposited by G. B. Cheever.
CuesTeR (Stephen M.) Columbian Magazine for June, July and August 1848, Nos. 6, 7, and 8, Vol. 9, edited by S. M. Chester: 8vo — New York, published by ohn S. Taylor.
CuiLve (E. V.) Edward Vernon, my cousin’s story: 16mo 194p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Cutty (Joseph, Esq.) A practical treatise on the criminal ee with comprehensive notes on each particular offence. The process, indictment, piea, defence, evidence, trial, verdict, judgment, and punishment, in three volumes; fifth American, from the second and last London edition, corrected and enlarged by the author, with notes and corrections by Richard Peters and Thomas Huntington, Esqrs., to which are now added notes and _ references to the cases decided in the courts of the United States, and of the several States to the present time, as well as the late English decisions; by J. C. Perkins, counsellor at law: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 994p; Vol. 2, 558p; Vol. 3, 723p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
A practical treatise on bills of exchange, with references to the law of Scotland, France and America; eleventh American from the ninth London edition, containing the American notes of former editions, by Judge Story and others, to which are now added the cases decided in the English courts, the courts of the United States, and of the several States to the present time, by J. C. Perkins: 8vo (large) 9532p — Springfield, published by G. & C. Merriam, 1849; deposited by G. & C. Merriam.
Curist — The sufferings of, by a layman: 12mo 328p — New York, pubby Harper & Brothers, 1845; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Curistian Keepsake and missionary annual for 1849: 12mo 329p — Philadelphia, published by Bower, Hayes & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
Curistian (Robert) A dispensatory or commentary on the Pharmacopcias

<<<Page: 115>>>

of Great Britain and the United States; second edition revised and improved, with a supplement containing the most important new remedies, with copious additions and two hundred and thirteen illustrations, by Eglesfeld Griffith, M. D.: 8vo large, 1008p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Curistmas Biossoms and New Year’s Wreath for 1849, » by Uncle Thomas ; 12mo 176p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co. ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
The same for 1850: 12mo 176p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. .
Curistmas Carox for 1847, illustrated by T. C. Boyd — New York,
Daniel Dana, publisher, 1847 ; deposited by John M. Mitchell.
Cuussuck (Fanny) Memoir of Sarah B. Judson, member of the American mission to Burmah, by Fanny Forrester—eighth thousand : 16mo 250p — New York, pubiished by L. Colby & Co., 184%.
CuurcuiL (Fleetwood, M. D.) On the theory and practice of midwifery, with notes and additions by R. M. Huston, M. D.; third American edition, revised and improved by the author, with one hundred and tw enty-eight Ulustrations, from drawings by Bagg and others, engraved by Gilbert : So 525p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Cicero (Marcus Tullius) The De Senectute, De Amicia, Paradoxia, and Somnium Scipionis of Cicero, and the life of Atticus, by Cornehus Nepos, with English notes, critical and explanatory, by Charles Anthon, LL. D.: 8vo 349p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
The three Dialogues of Cicero on the Orator ; translated into English by W. Guthrie, revised and corrected with notes, second American edition: 16mo 346p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Crark (John) Elements of drawing, in two parts; embracing exercises for the slate and black-board, edited by D. M. Reese, M. D. (See Chambers’ Educational course) ; 12mo 87p — New York, pub, by A. S. Barnes & Co, 1849; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co,
CLEVELAND (Charles Dexter) A compendium of English literature, chronologically arranged, from Sir John Mandeville to William Cowper: 12mo 702p— Philadelphia, published by E.C. & J. Biddle, 1847; deposited by C. D. Cleveland.
Ciinton (De Witt) The life and writings of, by Wm. W. Campbell: 8vo 38lp— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Coates (Reynell, M. D.) Leaflets of memory, an illuminated annual fcr 1850: S8vo large, 312p— Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
Same for 1849 — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co.; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.

<<<Page: 116>>>

fay 160
Coty (H. G. O.) The practice in civil actions and proceedings at law in Massachusetts, with copious references to decisions in New Hampshire, Maine, &c.; Svo large, 515p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1848; deposited by H. G. O. Colby.
Cote (S. W.) A book for every farmer—the American Veterinarian, or,
diseases of domestic animals: 12mo 288p — Boston, published by John P. Jewett & Co, 1847; deposited by S. W. Cole. A book for everybody—the American fruit book: 12mo ae — Boston, published by John P. Jewett, 1849; deposited by S$ W. Cole.
Coteman (Lyman) An historical geography of the Bible, illustrated by maps: 12mo 489p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by Lyman Coleman. ~ :
Coutins (Lewis) peice sketches of Kentucky, embracing its history, antiquities and natural curiosities, with anecdotes of pioneer life, illustrated by forty engravings: 8vo (large) 560p — Maysville, published by Lewis Collins; deposited by L. Collins.
Cotuins (Stephen, M. A.) Miscellanies, second edition: 12mo 8308p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1845; deposited by S. Collins.
Cotman (Henry) European life and manners, in familiar letters to friends: two volumes; 8vo Vol. 1, 360p; Vol. 2, 8392p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, "1849. deposited by H. Colman.
European agriculture and rural economy, from personal observations, two "volumes, second edition, with additions: Svo Vol. 1, 492p; Vol. 2, 588p— Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849; deposited by H. Colman.
Coxiron (Calvin) Public economy for the United States: Svo 536p — published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited by C. Colton.
Coxron (Rev. C. C., A. M.) Lacon—many things in few words, addressed to those ‘who think, revised edition with an index: 12mo d04p — New York, published by Wm. Gowans, 1849; deposited by Wm. Gowans.
Comstock (J. L., M. D.) A system of Natural Philosophy, illustrated by more than two hundred and fifty engravings, with questions for the examination of pupils, ninety-second edition: Svo 3860p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co, 1847; deposited by J. L. Comstock.
Same, ninety-first edition, illustrated by nearly three hundred engravings; Svo 3953p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co. 1848; deposited by J. L. Comstock.
Elements of chemistry, illustrated by numerous engravings, sixteenth edition from the 54th; 8vo 422p— New York, “published by Pratt, Woodford & Co. .» 1847; deposited by D. F. Robinson.
An introduction to the study of botany, including a treatise on vegetable physiology, fifteenth edition; 8vo 485p— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co.; deposited by J. L. Comstock.

<<<Page: 117>>>

161 [rq
Comstock (J. L., M. D.) Elements of Geology, including fossil botany and paleontology, a popular treatise ; Svo 432p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by J. L. Comstock.
An introduction to Mineralogy, adapted to the use of Schools and Juvenile students, illustrated by nearly twohundred wood cuts, twelfth edition: Svo 369p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847: deposited by Robinson, Pratt & Co.
Outlines of Physiology, both comparative and human, together with a synopsis of human anatomy, illustrated by numerous engravings, revised edition : 8vo 3860p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1848: deposited by J.
° L. Comstock.
Natural History of Quadrupeds, with engravings, on a new plan; exhibiting their comparative size: 4to 73p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1848: deposited by J. L. Comstock.
Comstock (Andrew, M. D.) Phonetic Magazine for July and August 1847, and for February 1848: Svo — Philadelphia, published by A. Comstock, M. D., 1849: deposited by A. Comstock.
Conxine (Alfred,) The jurisdiction, law and practice of the courts of the United States, in admiralty and maritime causes, including
those of quasi admiralty jurisdiction arising under the act of
February 26, 1845, with an appendix, containing the new rules of admiralty practice prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States, with numerous practical forms, &c.: Svo large, 950p — Albany, published by W. C. Little & Co., 1848: deposited by Alfred Conkling.
Cooxe (Philip Pendleton,) Froissart ballads and other poems: 12mo 216p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Coorer (J. Fennimore,) The Crater, or vulcan peak, a tale of the Pacific, in two volumes: 12mo Vol. 1, 234p Vol, 2, 227p — New York, published by Burgess, Stringer & Co., 1847; deposited by J. F. Cooper.
Copway (George, ) Life, history and travels of Ka-ge-ga-gah-bowh,
a young Indian Chief of the Ojibwa nation, a convert to the Christian faith and a missionary to his peeple for twelve years; 8vo 224p — Albany, published by Weed & Parsons, 1847; deposited by George Copway.
Corson (John W,) Loiterings in Europe, or Sketches of travel in France, Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Prussia, Great Britain and Ireland: 12mo0 3897p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Coxe (John Redman,) The writings of Hippocrates and Galen epitomized from the original Latin translations: 8vo large, 681p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1846 ; deposited by J. R. Coxe.
Mis.—11.

<<<Page: 118>>>

iad 162
Craig (R. D.) and Priiuies (T. J. Esq.) Reports of cases argued and determined in the High Court of Chancery: durmg the time of Lord Chancellor Cottenham, 8vo large, 391p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847 ; ; deposited by Banics, Gould & Co.
CrirrENDEN (S. W.) An inductive and practical treatise on book-keeping, by single and double entry: S8yo large, 248p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1849; deposited by S. W. Crittenden.
CRowELy (Rey. John) Republics established, and Thrones overturned by the Bible: 12mo 202p— Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange, 1849; deposited by John Crowell.
Cruise (William, Esq.) A digest of the law of real property, revised and considerably enlarged, by Henry H. White, Esq. ; furthér revised and abridged, aah additions and notes for the use of American students, by Simon Greenleaf, LL. D., in 7 volumes:
Molwt, containing a preliminary dissertation cn Tenures: title 1, estate in fee simple; 2, estate in tail; 3, estate for life; 4, estate tail after possibility ; 5, curtesy ; 6, dower; 7, joiture; 8, estate for years; 9, estate at will and at sufferance; 10, copy hold; 11, uses; 12, trust.
Vol. 2, containing —13, estate on condition; 14, estate by statute, merchant, &c.; 15, mortgage; 16, remainder 17, reversion; 18, joint tenancy; 19, coparcenary ; 20, tenancy in ee two volumes bound in one: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 434p; Vol. 2, 408p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by Simon Greenleaf.
Curtis (George 'T.) The American Conveyancer, containing a large variety of legal forms and instruments adapted to popular wants and pr ofessional use throughout the United States : 12mo — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847 ; deposited by Little &
Brown.
A treatise on the law of patents for useful inventions in the United States of America: 8vo large, 604p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by iG ae. Curtis.
Curwen, (M. E.) A revising index to the statute law of Ohio, showing the present state of the law by indicating the changes that have been made since the public ation of Swan? S statutes : Svo 90p — Dayton, published by Wilson & Decker, 1849; deposited by M. E. Curwen.
CUTTER (Calvin, M. D.) First book on anatomy, physiology and hygiene, for grammar schools and families, eighty-three engravings, stereotype edition: 12mo 189p— Boston; published by Benjamin B. Mussey & Co., 1849; deposited by C. Cutter.
A treatise on anatomy, physiology and hygiene, with one-hundred and fifty engravings, stereotype edition : 8vo 458p — Boston, published by Benjamin Mussey & Co., 1849 ; deposited by C. Cutter, M. D.
Currer (William) The life of Israel Putnam, Major General in the army

<<<Page: 119>>>

163 [ae
of the American Revolution, compiled from the best authorities: 12mo 385p — New York, published by G. F. Cooledye & Brother, 1847; deposited by G. F. Cooledge, 1847.
The life of General Lafayette: 12mo 408p — New York, published by G. F. Cooledge & Brother, 1849; deposited by George F. Cooledge & Brother.
Curts (James Madison) The conquest of California and New Mexico, by the forces of the United States, in the years 1846 and 1847: with engravings, &c.: 12mo 26. 4p -— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Daruincton (William, M. D., LL. D.) Memorials of John Bartram and Humphrey Marshall, with notices of their botanical contemporaries, with ‘inst ratiania 8vo large, 585p — Philadelphia, pubhehed) by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Davies (Charles, LL. D.) The Arithmetical table-book, or, the method of teaching the combinations of figures by sight ; ee 72p— New York, published by cA. Barnes & Co. ., 1848; deposited by C. as les.
First lessons in Arithmetic, designed for beginners : 16mo 168p— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by C. Davies.
Arithmetic, designed for academies and schools, with full illustrations of the method of canc ellation, revised edition; 12mo 360p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., L848; deposited by Charles Davies.
Davis (Andrew feriaoa) The principle of nature, her divine revelations, and a voice to mankind, by and through A. J. Davi is in three parts, third edition: Svo large ished by S.S. Lyons & William Fishbough, iSt7 : ieee by S. 8S. Lyons & William Fishbough.
Davis (N.S., M. D.) A text book on agriculture: 8vo 187p — N. York, published by Samuel S. & William Wood, 1848; deposited by N.S. Davis.
Day (Thomas,) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme court of errors of the State of Connecticut, in five volumes, second edition, with notes and references: Svo large, Vol. 1, 608p; Vol. 2, 737p; Vol. 3, 656p; Vol. 4, 627p; Vol. 5, 639p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848: deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Dentro (Hiram,) Re ports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme Court and in the court for the correction of e Irors, in the State of New York: 8vo Vol. 2, 679p; Vol. 3, 644p; Vol. 4, 631p — Albany, panhened by Gould, Banks: é & Gould: deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould, Vol. 2, 1847; Vol. 3, 1848; Vol. 4, 1849.
Denman. — The Obstetrical Remembrancer, augmented by Michael Ryan, M. D., first American from the ninth London edition, with ad-
ditions by Thomas F. Cock, M. D.: 16mo 258p— New York,

<<<Page: 120>>>

f a 164
published by Samuel S. & William M. Wood, 1848 ; deposited by Samuel S. & William M. Wood.
Description of Oregon and California, embracing an account of the gold regions, to which is added an appendix, containing descriptions of various kinds of gold and methods of testing its genuineness, with a large and accurate map of Oregon and California, compiled from the latest authorities : 18mo 76p —Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co., 1849; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co.
Devitte (F.) Theoretical and practical exposition of the diseases of the hair, by F. Deville: 8vo 70p— Baltimore, published by Joseph Robinson, 1849; deposited by F. Deville.
Dewey (D. M.) Rail road Hand book from Albany to Buffalo, corrected and revised by gentlemen of the rail road : 16mo 32p—Rochester, published by D. M. Dewey, 1849; deposited by D. M. Dewey.
Dickson (Samuel M,. M. D.) The principles of the Chronothermal system of medicine, with the fallacies of the faculty, in a series of lectures; first American from the third London, People’s edition, with an introduction and notes, by William Turner, M. D.: 8vo 228p — New York, published by J. S. Redfield, 1845.
DisturNELL (J.) A guide between Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York andBoston; tables of dist travel between Boston and Buffalo, and from New York to Montreal, two copies: 18mo 62p— 1846. Also one copy for June 1846, 79p — one for September 1846, 79p— one for January 1847, 79p — New York, published by J. Disturnell : deposited by J. Disturnell.
United States Almanac and National Register for the year 1850; 16mo 100p — New York, published by J. Disturnell : deposited by J. Disturnell.
The Eastern Tourist, being a guide through the States of Connecticut, Rhode Telands Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine — also, a dash into Canada» 16mo— New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1848; deposited by J. Disturnell.
The Emigrant’s Guide to New Mexico, California and Oregon: 16mo 45 5p — New York, published by J. Disturnell ; deposited by J. Disturnell.
Guide through the middle, northern and eastern States, with a map, for July 1847: 80p—also, one copy for June 1848, 16mo 79p— New York, published by J. Disturnell ; deposited by J. Disturnell.
Railroad, Steamboat and Telegraph book, being a guide through the middle, northern and eastern States and ‘Canada— also, giving the great lines of travel south and west, and the ocean steam packet arrangements, &c., telegraph lines and charges, &c., with a map, January 1849: 16mo 80p — New York, published by J. Disturnell; deposited by J. Disturnell. Also extra No. for May 1849 — 16mo S8p.

<<<Page: 121>>>

165 ria
Dopp (James B., A. M.) An elementary and practical arithmetic: 12mo 244p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1849 ; deposited by James B. Dodd.
Doccrrr (John, Jr.,) New York City Partnership Directory for 1849 and 1850: Svo 50p'— New York, published by J. Doggett ; deposited by J. Doggett.
New York City Directory for 1849 and 1850, eighth publication : 8vo AGB8p — New Yori, published by J. Doggett Jr., & Co.; deposited by J. Doggett, Jr.
Donouo (Thomas, S.) Moena, and other poems : 12mo 144p — Washington, published by William M. Morrison, 1847; deposited by Thomas 8. Donoho.
Draper (John William, M. D.) A Text Book of Natural Philosophy for the use of schools and colleges, containing the most recent discoveries and facts, compiled from the best authorities, by John Wilham Draper, M. D. &c., with nearly four uhauered illustra-
tions: 12mo 38ip— New York, Harper & Brothers publishers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
A text book on Chemistry, with nearly three hundred illustrations, third edition: Svo 403; »— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; ee by Harper & Brothers.
Dauirr (Robert,) The Principles and Practice of Modern Surgery, a new American from the last and improved London edition, edited by F. W. Sargent, M. D., illustrated by one-hundred and ninety-three wood engravings, two copies: Svo 576p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanc hard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Duane, (William, Kisq. ,) A View of the Law of roads, highways, bridges and ferries in Fennsy! lvania: 8vo 1: 5G6p— Phil adelphia, published by James Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1548; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.
Durr (P.) North American Accountant, embracing single and double entry book-keeping, in two parts: S8vo large, 192) » — New York, published by the author, 1848; dep sosited by p. Duff.
DUNGLISON (Robley, M. D.) 1 Medical Lexicon ; a Dictionary of Medical science, containing a concise explanation of the various subjects and terms, with the French and other synonyms, notices of climates and “cele brated mineral waters ; formule for various officinal and empirical preparations, &c., seventh en: carefully revised and greatly enlarged: Svo large, 912p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard; deposited 19 Lea & Blanchard.
Dountar (John A.) Reports of cases decided in the high court of chancery, with notes and references, to both English and American decisions. Vol. 18, containing Mylne & Craig’s chancery reports, Vol. 4 — Craig & Phillip’s Vol. I, IN: 38, 1839, 1840, 1841 — second, third ‘and ee Victoria. Vol. 29, containing Bevan’s Rolls. Reports, Vol. 7, 1843, 1844, seven and eight Victoria. Vol. 30, containing ‘Bare’ chancery repor*

<<<Page: 122>>>

Ly 166
4, 1844, 1845, 1846, seven, eight and nine Victoria. Vol. 20, containing Young & Collyer? s reports, Vol. 1; 8vo large — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1947; Wan 20 in 1849; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Duntop (James) The general laws of Pennsylvania from the year 1700 to Apnil 1849, chronologically arranged, with notes and references to all the decisions of the Supreme courts of Pennsy]vania, gly ine construction to said laws, with a copious and ate index, second edition: S8vo large — Philadlphia, published by 'T. & J. W. Johnson, 1849: deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson.
Dunnine (A. G., A. M.) An ancient, classical and scriptural Geography, with a map of the countrios mentioned in the ancient, classics and sacred scriptures: 4to 36p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by F. H. Brooks,
DurivacE (Francis A.) and inet ean (George P.) Stray subjects arrested and bound over, being the fugitive offspring of the “Old ’un”’ and the “ Young un,” that have been lying round loose, and are now tied up for fast keeping, illustrated by Darley 12mo 199p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848: 3 deposited by Carey & Hart.
Dwicur (M. A.) Grecian and Roman Mythology, with an introductory notice by Professor ‘Taylor Lewis, and a series of illustrations in outlme : 12mo 437p— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.
Dyrmwe anp Carico Printine — A practical treatise on dyeing and calico printing, including the earliest inventions and improvements, by an experienced dyer, assisted by several scientific gentlemen, with engravings on steel and wood: 8vo large, 704p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Dyer (Sidney,) Voices of Nature and Thoughts in Rhyme: 8vo 156p — Louisville, published by J. V. Cowlings & G. C. Davis, 1849 ; deposited by S. Dyer.
Earve (Thomas) The Systematic Speller, part first: 16mo 72p — Philadelphia, published by T. C. Chapman, 1848; deposited by T. Earle.
Eastman (Mrs. Mary) Dahcotah, or life and legends of the Sioux around Fort Snelling, with preface, prepared by Mrs. C. M. Kirkland, illustrated swath drawings by Captain Eastman: 8vo 268p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by J. Wiley.
EpELMAN (George W.) Rules for converting sterling into currency, and currency into sterling, from par to twelve and one-half per cent., increasing by one-fourth of one per cent: 12mo 40p — Philadelphia, published by H. L. Lipman, 1849; deposited by George W. Edelman.
Epmonps (Hon. J. W.) An address on the constitution and code of procedure: 8vo 47p — New York, 1848.

<<<Page: 123>>>

167 [fq
Epwarps (Frank S.) A campaign in New Mexico, with Colonel Doniphan, with a map of the route and table of the distances traversed : 12mo 184p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849: deposited by Carey & Hart.
Exper (W alter) The cottage gardens of America, containing practical directions for the culture of flowers, fruits and vegetables, the nature and improvement of soils, manures and their application, &e.: 12mo 233p — Philadelphia, published by Moss & Brother, 1849; deposited by Moss & Brother.
Exrsor (Samuel A.) A sketch of the history of Harvard college and of its present state: 12mo 190p — Boston, oublishedby Little & Brown, 1848; deposited by S. A. Ehot.
Exverr (Mrs.) Evenings at Woodlawn: 12mo 348p— New York, published by “Baker & | Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker &
Scribner. Excetr (Elizabeth F.) The Women of the American ney olution, in two volumes, second edition: 12mo Vol. 1, 348p; Vol. 2, 512p—
New York, published by Baker & Raine, ISIS; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Exuiorr (C. M.) Cottages and Cottage Life, containing plans for country houses, adapted to the means and wants of the people of the United States, &e. &c., with some sketches of life in this country: 8vo large, 226p — Cincinnati, published by H. MDerby & Co., 1848; deposited by C. M. Elliott.
Exuis (Benjamin, M. D.) The Medical Formulary, much improved anc extended, being a collection of prescriptions derived from the writings and practice of many of the most eminent ply siclans in Americ a and Europe, with an ap spendix containing the usual dietetic preparations and antidotes for poison, &c., eighth edition, with numerous additions by S. G. Morton, M. "D.: 8vo large 272p — Philadelphia, publ ished by Lea & Blanchard, 1846 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
EverGreen for 1847 — A present for all seasons, embellished with ten elegant engravings, from designs by eminent artists: Svo large, 300p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Eyivences of natural and revealed religion; also, the doctrines and institutions of Christianity, with questions for Bible classes, by the author of “ Reasons why I am a Churchman”: 16imo 2: 24) — New York, published by the General Protestant Episcopat! Sunday Sahbal Union, 18485 deposited by James W. Mitchell.
Ewext (James) The Medical Companion, or, Family Physician, treating of the diseases of the United States, with their symptoms, causes, cure and means of prevention ; Common Cases In surgery, as fractures, dislocations, &e.; the management and dices sex of women and children; a dispensatory for preparing family medicines, and a elossary explaining technical terms, to whic h are added a brief anatomy and physiology of the fiian body, showing on rational principles, the cause and cure. of diseases, An essay on the art of preserving health without the aid of

<<<Page: 124>>>

medicine; an American Materia Medica, pomting out the virtues and doses of medicinal plants. Also, the nurse’s guide — the tenth edition, revised, enlarged and very considerably improved, embracing a treatise on hydropathy, the chronothermal system and homeopathy — Philadelphia, published by 'Thomas Cowperthwait & Co., 1847; deposited by E. Kingman.
Same, tenth edition — Philadelphia, published by Crissy & Markley, 1848; deposited by E. Kingman.
Ewine (James) A treatise on the office and duty of a justice of the peace, sheriff, coroner, constable, executors, administrators and guardians, &c., with new and approved forms; fourth edition, revised and corrected, with additional notes, &c.: Svo large, 598p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848 ; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Faminrar DiatoGues, and other pieces in prose and poetry, calculated for Sunday school exhibitions, without denominational distinction: 16mo 124p — Pottsville, published for the editor, 1848 ; deposited by the Editor.
Fercuson (William, F. R. S. E.) A system of practical surgery, third American from the last English edition, with two-hundred and seventy-four illustrations by Bagge, engraved by Gilbert : 8vo 630p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Fietp, (Rev. Chester,) Scripture illustrated by interesting facts, incidents and anecdotes, with an introduction by Rev. John Todd, D. D.: 12mo 205p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Firip, (J. M. Esq.,) The Drama in Pokerville, the bench and bar of Jury town, and other stories, with eight illustrations, from original designs, engraved expressly for this work by I. O. C. Darley: 12mo 200p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Fire (William,) System of trainmg and teaching in Penmanship, by exercises whose errors are extravagant, and the reverse of those into which all pupils naturally fall, &c.: Philadelphia, 1847 ; deposited by Wilham Fife.
Fisuer (Richard 8., M. D.) The Book of the World, being an account of all republics, empires, kingdoms and nations, in reference to their geography, statistics, commerce, &c., in two volumes, illustrated by charts and maps: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 614p; Vol. 2, 705p — New York, published by J. H. Colton, 1849 ; deposited by J. H. Colton.
Fircu (George W.) The Youth’s Mapping Book, being an introduction to Fitch’s Chronography, containing maps of New York, New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and New Jersey — Brooklyn, published by A. M. Wilder, & Co., 1849; deposited by A. M. Wilder & George W. Fitch, 1849.
Chorography, designed for learners in geography, being a collection of plates prepared for delineating maps: 4to

<<<Page: 125>>>

169 [ wy
20p— Brooklyn, published by A. M. Wilder & Co., 1848 ; deposited by A. M. Wilder.
Five months in the New York State Lunatic Asylum: 16mo 63p — Buffalo, 1846 Y),
FLoaerne in the Navy, an essay on, containing strictures upon existing naval laws, and suggesting substitutes for the discipline of the lash: 8vo iarge, 33p — New York, published by Pudney & Russel], 1849 ; deposited by Kettell & Moore.
Forcer, (Robert M.) Exchange tables of British steriing, showing the value in the United States currenc y, of one fenny to ten ‘thousand pounds, from par to twelve ‘and seven-eighths per cent premium, by eighths per cent progressively: Svo large, 5Ip— New York, publ ey by Edward O. Jenkins, 1848 ; “deposited by Robert M. Folger.
Exchange tables of British Sterling, showing the value in United States currenc y, of one penny to ten thousand pounds, and in English currency, of one cent to twelve thousand dollars, from par to twelve and seven-eights per cent, premium by eights per cent, progressively : Svo New York, published by the author, 1849 ; deposited by R. M. Folger.
koore (Rev. William Henry) Sketches of North Carolina, historical and biographical, illustrative of the principles of a portion of her early settlers: Svo large, 557p—New oe published by Robert Carter, 1846; deposited by Robert Caner
Forp (Captain Edward) The Dich of Baden, a tale of the French revolution, with a history of the fall of the marquis Louis de Beauharnais and the flight and perils of his family in France, Spain, St. Domingo and Philadelphia: Svo 110p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1549; ee by Carey & Hart.
Fowxe (William B.) An elementary geography, being also a key to the new series of outline maps; 240 79p — Boston, published by William B. Fowle, 1849 ; deposited by W. B. Fowle.
Franxuin (A. W.) American cottage library, or, useful facts, figures and hints for everybody, containing a general view of the world, statistics of the United States, ‘Ke. 12mo 190p — New York, published by Burgess, Stringer & Co.; deposited by Burgess, Stringer & Co.
FRANKLIN (Benjamin) Poor Richard’s Almanac for 1850, as written by B. Franklin for the years 1733, 1734, 1785; the astronomical calculations by Professor Benjamin "Peirce, of Harvard University, and adapted to Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, Charleston and New Orleans, to which is added the commencement of the life of the great philosopher written by himself, annual illustrated edition: 12mo 60p -— New York, published by John Doggett, Jr., 1849; deposited by J. Doggett, Jr.
Franky (Benjamin,) His autobiography, with a narrative of his public life and services, by Rey. H. Hastings Weld, with numerous

<<<Page: 126>>>

iy 170
designs, by J. G. Chapman: 8vo 549p — New York, published by Harper r & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Frencn GENDERS, in six mnemonic tables, by which the genders of all ihe French nouns, upwards of 15, 540, may be fixed in the memory with certainty in a few days: enue 79p — New York, published by J. S. Redfield, 1848 ; deposited by James Corley.
Frencu (B. F.) Historical collections of Louisiana, embracing many rare and and valuable documents relating to “He national, civil and political history of that State, compiled with historical and biographical notes, and an introduction; Part 1, historical documents from 1678 to 1691: S8vo large, 229n — New York, published by Wiley & Putnam, 1846; peppsited by B. ine Brench
Frrienpsuip’s Orrerine, a Christmas, New Year’s, and Birth-day present, for 1850: 12mo 3380p — Boston, published by Phillips Sampson & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler.
ft A Ghisitay New Year and Birth-day present for 1849 : 520p — Boston, published by Phillips & Sampson, 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler.
Frost (John, LL. D.) Beauties of French History, compiled from the best authors : 16mo 252p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
The American Generals, from the founding of the eid to the present time, and embracing a complete military history of the country, cillfueena ted with six hundred and forty engravings: 8vo large, 912p — Philadelphia, published
by J. w. Bradley, 1848 ; deposited by J. Frost.
Beauties of English history: 16mo 2452p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Pictorial Ancient History of the World, from the earliest ages to the death of Constantine the Grdats Svo large, 3868p — Philadelphia, published by Walker & Gillis, 1sd6; deposited by J. Frost.
Pictorial history of the middle ages, from the death of Constantine the Great, to the discovery Ter Weve a by Columbus: 8vo large, 366p — Philadelphia, published by Charles J. Gillis, 1846; deposited by J. Frost.
Pictorial history of Mexico and the Mexican war, embellished by five hundred engravings: S8vo large, 6420p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas “Cowperthwait &: Co., 1849; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co.
Pictorial hfe of George Washington, embracing a complete history of the seven years war: the formation of the Federal Constitution, and the administration of Washington, embellished by more than one-hundred engravings: S8vo large, 58p — Philadelphia, published by Charles J. Gillis, 1847 ; deposited by L. Johnson.
Pictorial Life of Andrew Jackson, embellished by

<<<Page: 127>>>

171 Fwy
numerous engravings: Svo large, 512p — Hartford, published by Belknap & Hamersly, 1847: deposited by J. Frost.
Frost (John, LL. D.) Thrillmg adventures among the Indians, comprising the most remarkable personal narratives of events in the early Indian wars, &c., as well as of incidents in the recent Indian hostilities in Mexico and Texas, illustrated with numerous engravings : Svo 8483p — Philadelphia, published by J. W. Bradley, 1819 : deposited by J. Frost.
Thrilling incidents of the wars of the United States, with three-hundred engravings ; Svo large, 600p — Phila delphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; de ‘posited by Caer & Hart.
Fry (J. Reese,) A life of General Zachary Taylor, comprising a narrative of events connected with his professional career, derived from public documents and private correspondence, with an original and accurate portrait and eleven elegant illustrations of the battles of Fort Harrison, Okee-chobee, Palo Alto, Resaca de la Palma, Monterey, Buena Vista, &c.: 12mo 3382p — Philadelphia, published by Grige, Elliott & Co., 1847; deposited by Grigg, Elhott & Co.
Fuiton (Levi S.) and Eastman (George W.) A practical system of bookkeeping by single entry, containing three different forms of books ; designed respectively for the fa irmer, mechanic and merchant , to which is added a variety of useful forms, viz : — ROU ills, drafts, receipts, etc., etc., etc., second edition : 12mo 232p— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co, 1848 ; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.
Furser (George C.) Camp stories, or incidents in the life of a soldier, designed to give eonten? ideas of a soldier’s life: 8vo S6p — Cinci innati, published by J. A. & U. P. James, 1849; deposited by J.A. & U. P. James.
History of Mexico, continued from the capture of Vera Cruz to the termination of the war with the United States, containmg the full treaty of peace, &c., &c., being a continuation of Young’ s History of Mexico: 8vo — Cinc innati, published by J. A. & "U. P. James, 1848; deposited by J. A. & U. P. James.
The twelve months volunteer, or, journal of a private in the Tennessee regiment of cavalry in the campaign in Mexico, 1846-47, including a complete history of the war with Mexico, embellished by correct engravings es drawings by the author: 8yo large, 624p — Cincinnati, published by 5
A. & U. P. James, 1848 ; a osited by George C. Furber.
Gatiauper (T. H.) and Hooker (Horace) The School and Family Dictionary and Illustrative Definer; 16mo 221p— New oe published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by T. H. Gallaudet and Horace Hooker.
Gatr (John M., M. D.) The treatment of insanity : 8vo large, 578p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1816; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

<<<Page: 128>>>

172.
GARDNER (D. Pereira, M. D.) A new Medical Dictionary, contaming an explanation of the terms in anatomy, human and comparative, physiolog y> practice of medicine, obstetrics, surgery, therabee materia medica, pharmacy, chemistry, botany, natural philosophy, with the formulas of the principal pharmacopeias and valuable practical articles on the treatment of diseases ; on the basis of Hooper & Grant, adapted to the present state of science, and for the use of medical students and the profession : Svo large, 685p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847: deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Medical chemistry for the use of students and the profession ; being a manual of the science, with its application to toxicology, phy siology, therapeutics, hyg giene, &c., by D. P. Gardner, M. D.: 12mo 396p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blan-
chard.
Guost Stories — Collected with a particular view to counteract the vulgar beliefin ghosts and apparitions, with ten engravings: 16mo 192 2p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1846 ; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Gugson (William M. D.) Institutes and practice of surgery, being outlines of a course of lectures, eighth edition, improved and “enlarged, two volumes: 8vo, Nol: ate 5d03p; Vol. 2, 478p — Philadelphia, published by James Kay, Jr., & Brother, 1850: deposited by William Gibson.
GILMAN (Char! es,) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois: 8vo large, [ three volumes—2, 3 and:4 only received,| Vol. 2, 179p; Vol. 3, ZED Vol. 4, 637p — Quincy, published by Newton Flagg, Vol. 2, in 1847, and Vols. 3 and 4, in 1848; deposited by Ghanlas Gilman.
Gitpin (Thomas) Exiles m Virginia, with observations on the conduct of the society of Friends during the revolutionary war, comprising the official papers of the : government relating to that period, 1777-1778: 8vo large, "302 p— Philadelphia, published in 1848; deposited by Thomas Gilpin.
Girarp (J. P. L.) An elementary practical book for learning to speak and write the Spanish language, from the method of Dr. J. H. P. Seidenstuecker, dedicated to the use of lis pupils and others : Svo 128p — New York, published by Collins & Brother, 1848; deposited by Collins & Brother.
GirarD (Stephen) Will of Stephen Girard, and a short biography: 8vo 32p — Philadelphia, 1548.
Girautt (A. N.) The French student’s manual, or, colloquial and grammatical exercises, intended to impart to the student both a theoretical and practical knowledge of the French language, fourth edition, carefully revised and much enlarged: 12mo 480p — Philadelphia, published by Henry Perkins, 1848 ; deposited by Henry Perkins.
Goupsgury (John) The Black-board — Exercises and illustrations on .the black-board, designed for the use of common schools; 12mo

<<<Page: 129>>>

173 E ua
144p — Keene, published by George Tilden, 1847; deposited by J. Goldsbury.
GotpsmirH (Oliver) Pinnock’s improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith’s history of Rome, illustrated with numerous engravings, by William i. Taylor, LL. D., thirty-fifth American from “the twenty-third English edition: 8vo 399p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co., 1848; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co.
Pinnock’s improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith’s history of Greece, for the use of schools, illustrated with numerous engravings, by William C. Taylor, LL. D., thirty-fifth American from the nineteenth English edition : 12 mo 380p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait Co.; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co.
Pinnock’s improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith’s history of England, from the invasion of Julius Ceasar, to the death of George III, with a continuation to the year 1845, illustrated Sele numerous engravings, by Wilham C. Taylor, LL. D., fifty-fifth American from the thirty-fifth English edition ; 8vo 476p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co., 1848; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co.
Goopricu (Samuel G.) Peter Parley’s common school history, illustrated by engravings, new edition. revised and brought down to the present time: 12mo 3809p — Philadelphia, published by Eck Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co
Parley’s third book of history, containing ancient history in connection with ancient geography, improved ecition: 12mo 189p— Boston, published by rane , Palmer & Co.., 1850; deposited by Charles Hendee.
Common school history, illustrated by engravings, new edition, revised and brought down to the present time, bs Peter Parley : 12mo 309p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co, ., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
Brees first book of history, with sixty-eight en-
ravings and sixteen maps, fourth revised edition, enlarged and improved: 12mo 240p — Boston, published by Jerks. “Palmer : & Co., 1849; deposited by Charles J. Hendee.
Gove (Mary S.) Lectures to women on anatomy and physiology, with an appendix on water cure: 12mo 5061p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
GrauaM (David) A treatise on the practice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, third edition, revised, corrected and enJarged, in two volumes: 8vo large, 7385p — New York, published by Banks, Gould SIC. ie 1847 : deposited by Banks, Gould, & Co.
Granam (George R,) Graham’s American Monthly Magazine, for November, 1846: Svo large, Philadelphia, published by George RK. Graham ; deposited by J. Fennimore Cooper.

<<<Page: 130>>>

{aj 174
Grattan (Peachy R.) Reports of cases decided in the Supreme Court of Appeals and in the general court of Virgima: Vol. 2, from April 1, 1845, to April 1, 1846: 8vo large, Vol. 2, 664p — Richmond, published by Shepherd & Colin, 1846 ; deposited by State of Virginia, [ Vol 2, only, received. |
Graves (Robert James, M. D.) A system of clinical medicine, with notes and a series of lectures, by W. W. Gerhard, M. D., third American edition: Svo large, 751p— Philadelphia, published by Edward Barrington & George D. Haswell, 1848 ; deposited by Barrmgton & Haswell.
Gray (James, D. D.) A dissertation on the coincidence between the priesthoods of Jesus Christ and Melchisedec, in three parts, in which the passages of scripture relating to that subject m the XIV Chapter of Genesis, the XC Psalm, theV, VI, VII Chapters of the Epistle to the Hebrews, are explained, together with a sketch of the life of Jesus Christ : 12mo 158p — Hagerstown, published by William Stewart, 1845; deposited by William Stewart.
Green, (Horace, A. M., M. D.) Observations on the pathology of the croup, with remarks on its treatment by topical medications: 12mo 115p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by Horace Green.
Greene (Samuel S., A. M.) First Lessons in grammar, based upon the construction and analysis of sentences, designed as an introduction to the “‘ Analysis of Sentences’: 16mo 171p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co, 1848; deposited by Samuel S. Greene.
: Analysis, a treatise on the structure of the English language, or the analysis and classification of sentences and their component parts, with illustrations and exercises adapted to the use of schools: 12mo 258p— Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co, 1848; deposited by Samuel S. Green.
Gairritn (R. Eglesfield,) Medical botany, or descriptions of the more important plants used in medicine, with their history, properties and modes of administration, with upwards of three-hundred illustrations; Svo large — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847: deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Grime (Frederick) Considerations upon the nature and tendency of free institutions: 8vo large, 5444p — Cincinnati, published by H. W. Derby & Co.: deposited by F. Grimké Gaimsiaw (William,) An etymological dictionary of the English language, containing the radicals and definitions of words derived from the Greek, Latin and French languages, and al] the generally used technical and polite phrases adopted from the French and Latin, &c., &c., third edition, carefully revised and enlarged : 12mo 280p— Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elhott & Co., 1848; deposited by W. Grimshaw. , Incidents recalled: 8vo 84p — Philadelphia, 1848.

<<<Page: 131>>>

7 175 faq Grimsuaw (William) Questions on the History of England: 12mo 8ip — Philadelphia, 1841.
History of the United States, from their first set+ tlement as colonies to the period of the sixth census in 1840: 12mo 3836p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1847 ; deposited by William Grimshaw.
Questions on the History of the United States: 12mo 91p — Philadelphia, 1847.
History of the United States from their first settlement as colonies to the peace with Mexico in 1848: 12mo 37 1p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849 ; deposited by William Grimshaw.
GriswoLp (Rufus Wilmot,) The prose writers of America, with a survey of the history, condition and prospects of American literature, illustrated with portraits from original pictures: 8vo large, 5592p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 18473; deposited by Carey & Hart.
The female poets of America: Svo 400p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Grover (Thomas D.,) Will of, with a short sketch of his life: Svo 2383p — Southwark, 1849.
GuENon (Francis M.) A treatise on milch cows, whereby the quality and quantity of milk which any cow will give may be accurately determined by observing natural marks or external indications alone, the length of time she will continue to give milk, &c. franslated for the Farmer’s Library, from the ”Frenc ch, by N P. Trist, Esq., with introductory remarks on the cow and the dairy, by John S. Skinner, illustrated by numerous engravings: 8yo 32p — New York, published by Greely & M’ Elrath ; de» posited by Greely & M’Elrath,
Iackiey (Charles W., S. T. D.,) Elementary course of Geometry, for the use of schools and colleges: 12mo 103p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers » 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
A treatise on Algebra, containing the latest improvements, adapted to the use of schools and. colleges: S8vo large, 503p — New York, published by Harper & “Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
School Algebra, containing the latest improvements; 8vo large, 226p — New NV Onk: “published by
Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Hare (David,) Memoirs of, with selections from his miscellaneous writings, by Joseph P. Thompson : 12mo 520p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1850; deposited by J, P. Thompson.
Hare (Salma,) Premium history, of the United States, from their first settlement as colonies to the close of Mr. "Tyler? Ss administration in 1845, to which are added Sue uens adapted to the use of schools, new edition, with maps: 12mo 3826p — Coopers

<<<Page: 132>>>

[ & Fj 176 . town, published by H. & E. Phinny, 1846; deposited by Salma Hale.
Hate (Sarah Josepha) Three Hours, or, The Vigil of Love, and other poems: 12mo 216p—Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by S. J. Hale.
The Poet’s offering for 1850: Svo large, 576p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1850; deposited by Grigg, Elliot & Co.
Haut (Arethusa) Manual of morals for common schools, adapted also to the use of families: 12mo 212p — Boston, published by J. P. Jewett, 1849; deposited by Wiliam H. Wardwell.
WIatu (Rev. Baynard R., A.M.) Teaching, a science — the teacher an artist: Svo 3805p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Hau (James) The West; its soil, surface and productions: 12mo 260p — Cincinnati, published by Derby, Bradley & Co., 1848; deposited by James Hall.
Hatt (Mrs. James) Phantasia, and other Poems: 8vo 144p— New York,
published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.
Hamizton (G.) Elements of vegetable and animal physiology, in two parts, edited by D. M. Reese, M. D,. LL. D., [See Chamber’s educational course.|_ 12mo 144p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by A.S. Barnes & Co.
Hammonp (Jabez D.) Life and times of Silas Wright, late Governor of New York: 8vo large, 749p — Syracuse, published by Hall & Dickson, 1848; New York, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited by Hall & Dickson.
Hare (J. J. Clark) and Watuace (H. B.) Select decisions of American courts in several departments of law, with special reference to mercantile law, with notes by J. J. Clark Hare & H. B. Wallace, two volumes: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 569p; Vol. 2, 579p — Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, Vol. 1, in 1847; Vol. 2, in 1848; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson.
Hare (Thomas,) Reports of cases adjudged in the higher courts of chancery, before the Right Honorable Sir James Wigram, Kt. Vice Chancellor, : 8vo large, 666p— New York, published by Banks, Gould, & Co., 1847; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Harrison (W. B.) Museum comic songster, being a choice collection of rare and original songs: 16mo 70p — Philadelphia, published by W. B, Harrison, 1849; deposited by William B. Harrison.
Harris (Chapin A., M. D. DD. 8.) A dictionary of dental science, biography and medical terminology: 8vo 7830p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Harrison (Robert, M. D.) A text book of practical anatomy, with addi-
tions by an American physician, with numerous illustrations : Svo large, 720p — New York, published by 8. S. & W. Wood, 1848; deposited by S. S. & W. Wood.

<<<Page: 133>>>

177 [vq
Hart, (Joseph C.) The romance of Yachting, voyage the first : 12mo 332} —— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; dees ited by Harper & Brothers.
Hastines (John, M. D.) The practice of Surgery, embracing minor surgery and the application of dressings, &c., with numerous illustratrations : 8vo 479p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay &
Blakiston ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Lectures on Yellow Fever, its causes, pathology and treatment, by John Hastings, M. D.: Svo 69p — Philadel-
phia, published by Lindsay & “Blakiston ; deposited by John Hastings.
Haswett (Charles H.) Engineer’s and Mechanic’s pocket book, containing United States and foreign weights and measures, Ke. , &ce., fifth edition: 16mo 296p — ‘New York, published by Harper & Bro-
thers, 1848; deposited by Harper ‘& Brothers.
Hawker (Lieutenant Colonel P.) Instructions to young sportsmen, in all that relates to guns and shooting; first American from the ninth London edition ; to which is added the hunting and shooting of America, with descriptions of the animals and birds, by Wn. fle Porter, Esq., with illustrations; 8vo 459p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1846; deposited by Lea &
Blanchard.
Haypen (Chester) A practical analytical digest of the Code of Proeedure of the state of New York, embracing entire every section of the code in an alphabetic al arrangement of its contents as applicable to actual practice ; with ‘suggestions and remarks, and an appendix, containing the act supplementary to the code, &c., together with a collection of practical forms adapted to the new practice: 8vo large, 428p— Albany, published by W. C. Little & Co.; ; deposited by Chester Hayden.
Heapiry (J. T.) The rer orey ‘k, or, Life in the Woods: 8vo 288p New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by J. T. Headley.
Absalom: published in the New York Observer, May 12, 1849; deposited by J. T. Headley.
The Chariot of Fire: published in the New York Observer, April 14, 1849; deposited by J. T. Headley.
Letters from Italy, new and revised edition: 12mo 2245p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
The Alps and the Rhine, a series of sketches; new and revised edition: 12mo 138p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Life of Oliver Cromwell: 12mo 446p— New York, published by Baker &. Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
The Sacred Mountains, illustrated: 12mo 175p— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 18473; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Mis—12.

<<<Page: 134>>>

(ity 178
Washington and his Generals: 12mo Vol. 1, 8348p; Vol. 2, 3872p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Heim (Rey. James, A. M.) Memoir of Martha Thompson Sharp: 16mo 198p — Philadelphia, published by Daniels & Smith, 1849 ; deposited by Rev. James Helm, A. M.
Henry (Capt. W.S., U.S. A.) Campaign sketches of the war with Mexico, with engravings: 12mo 331p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Hensuaw (J. Sidney) A manual for United States Consuls, embracing their rights, duties, liabilities and emoluments, the laws and judicial decisions governing them, &c., &c., &c.: 16mo 252p — New York, published by J. C. Riker, 1849; deposited by J. S. Henshaw.
Hrrgert, Ellen, or Family Changes, with six illustrations: 16mo 206p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Hicxry (W.) Constitution of the United States of America, the proximate causes of its adoption and ratification, the Declaration of Independence, the prominent political acts of George Washington ; with an alphabetical analysis of the Constitution, by a citizen: 12mo 225p-Washington, printed by G. S. Gideon, 1846; deposited by the author.
Same, Second edition, Philadelphia, published by T. K. & P. G. Collins, 1847, two copies ; deposited by W. Hickey.
Hitpreru (Richard,) The history of the United States of America, from the discovery of the continent to the organization of the goyernment under the federal constitution, in three volumes, Vol. 1, 570p; Vol. 2, 579; Vol. 3, 592p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Hinx (Nicholas, Jr.) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme court, and in the court for the correction of errors of the State of New York: Vol. 7, 8vo large, 6382p — Albany, published by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1847 ; deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould.
Hinns (John) Farriery and Stud book, new edition; farriery taught on a new and easy plan, being a treatise on the diseases and accidents of the horse, with instructions to the shoeing-smith, farrier and groom; with considerable additions and improvements, particularly adapted to this country, by Thomas M. Smith, with a supplement comprismg an essay on domestic — animals, especially the horse, together with trotting and racing tables, &c., &e., by J. S. Skinner: 12mo 124p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1848; deposited by John Grigg.
Iirrst (Henry B.) The Penance of Roland, a romance of the Peine Forte et Dure, and other poems; 12mo 128p— Boston, published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1849; deposited by W. D. Ticknor, & Co.

<<<Page: 135>>>

179 (rq
Horrman (Charles Fenno) Greyslaer, a romance of the Mohawk, fourth edition: Syo 5140p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited C. F. Hoffman.
IloLcoMBE Gane P.) A digest of the decisions, of the Supreme court of the United States from its organization to the present time: Svo large, 6830p — New York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 184 1s: deposited by D. Appleton & Co.
Horry (O. 5B.) The | ife of Benjamin Franklin: 12mo 468p — New York. published by George F. Cooledge & Brother, 1848; deposited by George kr. Cooledge and Brother.
The New York State Register for 1845, containing an almanac for 1845-6, with political, statistical and other information relating to fhe state of New York and the United States : also, a complete list of county officers, attorneys, &c. The anor Register contains a full list of United States government officers, &e.: 12mo 516p — New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1845; deposited by J. Disturnell.
Same for 1847-8, being a supplement to the Register for 1845-6; 12mo ¢ 24p — New York, published by J. Disturnell : deposited by J. Disturnell.
Hontick (Frederick, M. D.) Neuropathy, or the true principles of the art of healing the sick, being an examination of the action of galvanism, electricity, and magnetisin in the cure of disease, and a comparison between their powers and those of drugs or medicines of all kinds, with a view to determine their value and proper uses ; ten 193p — Philadelphia, published by National publishing company, 1849; deposited by F. Hollick.
The Diseases of Woman, their causes and cure familiarly explained, with practical hints for their prevention, and for the preservation of female health, illustrated by numerous engravings: 16mo 291p — New York, published, by Bur-
fess & Stringe r, 1849; deposited by F. Hollick.
Outlines of Anatomy and Physiology, illustrated by anew dissected plate of the human organization and by separate views, &c., with a portrait of the author : 4to 40p — Philadelphia, published by King & Baird, 1847 ; deposited by Fs Hollick, M.D.
Hlonmes (John,) The Art of Rhetoric, or the elements of oratory, adapted to the practice of the students of Great Britain and Ireland, methodically arranged from the ancient and modern rhetorical writers, to which is added Quintilian’s course of an ancient Rowan. education ; new and carefully corrected edition in two books, entirely remodeled, by John A. Getty, A. M.: 12mo 307p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1819; ; deposited by J. A. Getty.
HWortiuouse (Henry James, Esq.) A new Law Dictionary, containing explanations of such technical terms and phrases as occur in the works of legal authors, in the practice of the courts and in the parliamentary proceedings of the House of Lords and Commons, to which is added an outline of an action at law, and of

<<<Page: 136>>>

[| ta 180
a suit in equity; edited from the second and enlarged London edition, with numerous additions, by Henry Pennington: 12mo 495p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1549 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Homer — The first six books of Homer’s Iliad, with English notes, a metrical index and homeric glossary, by Charles Anthon, LL. D.: Svo 8397p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Hoop (John W., M. D.) The principles and practice of medicine in a series of essays; Svo large, 263p— Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co, 1848; deposited by J. W. Hood.
Hoop (Samuel,) Practical Treatise on the Law relating to registers, register’s courts, orphans’ courts, auditors, executors, administrators, guardians and trustees in Pennsy iF ania, with appendices of acts of assembly, forms, &c., and an Meee Svo large, 580p — Philadelphia, published by James Kay, Jr. & Brother ; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.
Hooker (Worthington, M.D.) Physician and Patient, or a practical view of the mutual duties, relations and interests of the medical profession and the community: 8vo 453p— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Hoorer (Dr.) Physician’s Vade-Mecum, or a manual of the principles and practice of physic, considerably enlarged and improved, with an outline of general pathology and therapeutics, by William Augustus Grey, M. D., with additions by James Stewart, A. M. M. D.: 12mo 541p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Horace — The works of Horace, with English notes, critical and explanatory, by Charles Anthon, LL. D., new edition, corrected and enlarged, with an excursus relative to the wines and vine-
yards of the ancients, and a life of Horace by Milman: 12mo 131p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Hoven (Lewis L.) The Wanderer, a poem: 16mo 64p — Cleveland, published by Smead & Cowles, 1547; deposited by L. 8. Hough.
Howarp (Benjamin C.) Reports of cases argued and adjudged in the Supreme court of the United States, January term, 1849, vol. 7: Svo large, IL1p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by Little & Brown.
Reports of cases argued and adjudged in the Supreme court of the United States, January term, 1847, Vol. 5; Svo large, 65lp — Boston, published by Little & Brown; deposited by Little & Brown.
xiowr (Henry) Historical collections of Ohio, containing a collection of the ; most interesting facts, fegitions, biographical, sketches, anecdotes, &c., relating to its general and local history, with de-
scriptions of its c ounties »Pl incipal towns and y illages, illustrated
by 177 engravings, &c.: 8yvo large, O8lp— Cincinnati, pub

<<<Page: 137>>>

181 i Wed
lished by Derby, Bradley & Co., for the author, 1847; deposited by J. W. Barber & H. owe.
Hower (Henr y) Memoirs of the most eminent American mechanics ; also lives of distinguished European mechanics, together with a collection of anecdotes, descriptions, &c., relating to the mechanic arts, illustrated by fifty engravings; 12mo 4831p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Howison (Robert R.) A history of Virginia, from its discovery and settlement by Europeans to the present time; Vol. 2, containing the history of the colony and of the State, from 1763 to the retrocession of Alexandria in 1847, with a review of the present condition of Virginia: 8vo large, 528p— Richmond, published
by Drinker & Morris, 1848 ; deposited by Drinker & Morris.
Howxanp (Henry J.) The Worcester Almanac, directory and business advertiser, for 1850, including the ordinances of the city of Worcester: 16mo 172p— Worcester, published by H. J. Howland ; deposited by H. J. Howland.
Hiupson (H. N.) Lectures on Shakspeare, two volumes 12mo: Vol. 1, 3836p ; Vol. 2, 3848p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Wovens (John T.) California; its history, population, climate, soil, productions and harbors, from Sir George Simpson’s oy erland j journey round the w ae an account of the revolution in California, and conquest of the country by the United States: 16mo 105p —— Cincinnati, published by J. A. & U. P. James; “deposited by J. A. & U. P. James.
Doniphan’s expedition, containing an account of the conquest of New Mexico; General Kearney’s overland expedition to California; Doniphan’s campaign against the Navyajos, his unparalleled march upon Chihuahua and Durango, and the operations of General Price at Santa Fe, &c., a map and five engravings: 12mo 407p— Cincinnati, published J. A. & U. P. James, 1848; deposited by J. A. & U. P. James.
Hucus (Mrs.) The Ivy Wreath, with beautiful illustrations: 12mo 175p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Birds and Blossoms for the Young, with numerous illustrations: 18mo 2045p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
HunreER (John, ) Analytic History for Schools, founded on the late Esquisses historiques of M. D. Levi, adapted to the state of instruction in the United States, and brought down to the year 1848: 12mo 312 p — New York, published by D. Fanshaw; deposited by John H. Hunter and D. Fanshaw.
Huston (Charles ») An essay on the history and nature of original titles to land in the province and state of Pennsylvania: 8vo large, A84p —Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W, Johnson, 1849 ; deposited by 'T. & J. W. Johnson.

<<<Page: 138>>>

an 182
Hurron’s Book of Nature laid open, revised and improved, by Rey. J. L. Blake, D. D.: 16mo 250p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Hyarr (James,) Lime and marl, their agricultural uses : Svo 3832p — Philadelphia, 1848.
Imray (Keith) A popular Cyclopedia of modern domestic medicine, comprising every recent improvement in medical knowledge, with a plain account of the medicines in common use ; first Avmerrean edition, to which are prefixed by the editor, popular treatises upon anatomy, physiology, surgery, dietectics, and the management of the sick, compiled from the works of eminent physicians and surgeons, designed for general use; S8vo large, 855p—New York, published by Gates, Stedman & Co., sd: deposited by Gates, Stedman & Co.
[xcersouiy (Charles J.) Historical sketch of the second war between the United States of America and Great Britain, declared by act of Congress, the 18th of June 1812, and concluded by peace the 15th of February 1815, embracing the events of 1814: 8vo 317p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Irvine (Washington) The Crayon Miscellany, author’s revised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo 379p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. Irving.
Astoria, or, Anecdotes of an enterprise beyond the Rocky mountains, author’s revised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo 519p— New York, published by George P. Putnam; deposited by W. Irving.
The adventures of Captain Bonneville, United States Army, in the Rocky mountains and the far west, digested from his journal, and illustrated from various other sources, author’s revised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo 428p— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W.
Irvi ing.
The life and voyages of Christopher Columbus, to which are added those of his companions, in three volumes, author’s revised edition, 12mo; Vol. 1, 457p; Vol. 2, 493p; Vol. 3, 492p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. Irving.
Tales of a Traveller, by Geoffrey Crayon, author’s revised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo 456p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. Irving:
A history of New York from the beginning of the world to the end of the Dutch dynasty, by Diedrie h Knickerbocker, the author’s revised edition, complete in one volume : {2mo 452p— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. Irving.
The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, gent., author’s revised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo “465p

<<<Page: 139>>>

— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. Irving.
Irvine (W ashington) Bracebridge Hall, or the Humorist, a medley, by Geotlrey Crayon, gent. author s revised edition, complete in one volume; 12mo AS7p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. Irving.
A book of the Hudson, collected from the various works of Diedrich Knickerbocker, edited by Geoffrey Crayon : 16mo 115p— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.
JackMANn (Alonzo,) A treatise on the doctrine of numerical series; 8vo dop — 1846.
Jacosus (Melancthon W.) Notes on the Gospels, critical and explanatory, so prepared as to accompany ate questions of the American Sunday School Union, and incorporating with the notes on a new plan the most approv ed harmony of the four gospels, with illustrations; from Kitto’s Biblical Encyclopedia, &c. Matthew: 12mo 3135p — New York, published by Robert Carter, 1848 : deposited by M. W. Jacoubs.
Jenks (Rev. William, D. D.) The explanatory Bible Atlas and Scripture ap eticer, geographical, topographical and historical, containing maps of all the countries and places mentioned in the old and new testaments, drawn from the latest and best authorities, and engraved expressly for the work, with illustrative essays for each map, and accurate local descriptions in the gazetteer, a colored missionary map of the world, a dictionary of the natural history of the Bible, with engravings, tables of time. weights, measures, coins, fabular views , &e., Se. : 4to 157p — Boston published by Charles Hickling, 1849: ; deposited by Wil
ham Jenks.
Jennincs (Samuel K., M.D.) A compendium of Medical Science, or fifty years experience in the art of healing, being a plain iad practical treatise on the prevention and cure of diseases: &vo large, 3592p — Tuscaloosa, published by Marmaduke J. Slade, 1847: deposited by S. Kk. Jennings.
Jounson (George William, Esq.) A Dictionary of Modern Gardening, with one-hundred anil eighty wood cuts, edited with numerous additions by David Landreth : 8vo 635p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; ee a by Lea & Blanchard.
Jounson, (Samuel, LL. D.) Pocket Dictionary of the English Language, greatly improved by an augmentation of some thousand words and technical terms, &c., &e.16m 2! 3p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Jounson (Theodore 'T.) Sights in the Gold Region, and scenes by the way: Svo 2785p — New York, published by Baker & Sc ribner, 1849: deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Jounson (William,) Reports of cases adjudged in the Supreme court ot Judicature of the State of New York, from January term, 1799, to January term 1803, both inclusive, together with cases

<<<Page: 140>>>

i; tel 184
determined in the court for the correction of errors during that period; second edition, with many additional cases not included in the former edition, from the original notes of the late Hon. Jacob Radcliff, with copious references to the American and English decisions, by Lorenzo B. Shepard, second volume — containing the cases from October term 1800, to October term 1801, inclusive: 8vo large, 595p— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Jounson (William, Architect,) The Carpenters’ new Guide, being a complete book of lines for carpentry and joinery; treating fully on practical geometry, soffits, brick and plaster groins, niches of every description, sky lights, lines for roofs and domes, with a great variety of designs for roofs, trussed girders, floors, domes, bridges, &c.; angle bars for shop fronts, &c., raking mouldings, &c., &c. The whole founded on true geometrical principles, the theory and practice well explained and fully exemplified on eighty-three copper plates, including some observations and calculations on the strength of timber, by Peter Nicholson, thirteenth edition: 4dto 117p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1848; deposited by Grigg, Elliot & Co.
Jones (Major) Sketches of travel, comprising the scenes, incidents and adventures in his tour from Georgia to Canada, with eight original engravings: 12mo 192p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Jones (Thomas) Book-keeping and accountantship, elementary and practical, in two parts, with a key for teachers: Svo large, — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by Thomas Jones.
Jones (‘T. Wharton, F. A. S.) The principles and practice of Ophthalmic medicine and surgery, with one hundred and two illustrations, edited by Isaac Hays, M. D.: 8vo 509p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Kewxioe (Edward) Labor and other capital; the rights of each secured and the wrongs of both eradicated, or an exposition of the cause why few are wealthy and many poor, and the delineation of a system, which, without infringing the rights of property will give to labor its just reward: 8vo 298p— New York, published by the author, 1849; deposited by E. Kellog.
Kerrey (Jame M., counsellor at law and State reporter) Reports of cases in law and equity argued and determined in the Supreme court of the state of Georgia, three volumes; volume 1, including the year 1846; volume 2, commencing January 1847; volume 3, commencing July 1847: 8vo large, vol. 1, 679p; vol. 2, 524p; vol. 3, 6387p: vol. 1, published by Edward O. Jenkins, New York, 1847; vols. 2 and 3, at Savannah by W. T. Williams; vol. 2, in 1847 and vol. 8, in 1848; deposited by James M. Kelley.
Kexsey (William R.) The Apiarians guide, being a practical treatise on

<<<Page: 141>>>

185 [14
the culture and management of bees, by Wilham R. Kelsey: pamphlet 12mo 45p — Syracuse, printed by Kinney, Marsh & Barnes, L847.
Kennepy (John P.) Memoirs of the life of Wilham Wirt, Attorney General of the United States, in two volumes: S8vo large, vol. 1, 417p; vol. 2, 450p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849: deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Kenr (James) Commentaries on American Law, four volumes sixth edition ; 8vo large, vol. 1, 560p; vol. 2, 646p; vol. 3, 514p; vol. 4, 5386p — New York, published by William Kent, 1848; deposited by W. Kent.
Kent (Edward N.) Instructions for collecting, testing, melting and assaying gold: 8vo 8389p — New York, 1848.
Kipyey (John Steinfort) Catawba river, and other poems: 12mo 119p— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1847; deposited by J. S. Kidney.
Kinespury (Harmon) The Immigrant’s Good Samaritan: 16mo 117p — New York, published by D. Fanshaw ; deposited by E. Vernon,
Kirkianp (Mrs.) Holidays abroad, or Europe from the West, two volumes i2mo; vol. 1,303p; vol. 2, 3832p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Kurestetn (Louis F.) Analecta Anglo Saxonica; selections in prose and verse, from the Anglo Saxon literature, with an introductory Ethnological essay and notes, critical and explanatory, two volumes 12mo: vol. 1, 430p; vol. 2, 444p — New York, pub-
lished by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P.
Putnam.
Knapp (Dr. F.) Chemical Technology, or Chemistry applied to the arts and to manufacturers, translated and edited with numerous notes and additions, by Dr. Edmund Ronalds and Dr. Thomas Richardson; first American edition, with notes and additions by Professor Walter R. Johnson, Vol. 1., illustrated with two-hundred and fourteen engravings on wood: Svo large, 504p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848.
Lamson (David R.) ‘Two years experience among the Shakers, being a description of the manners and customs of that people, the nature and policy of their government, &c., &c.: 12mo 212p — West Boyleston, published by the author, 1848; deposited by D. R.Lampson.
Lanpis (Robert W.) Liberty’s Triumph, a poem: Svo 544p— New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by R. W. Landis.
Lapua (I. A.) Wisconsin, its geography and topography, history, geology and mineralogy, together with brief sketches of its antiquities, natural history, soil, productions and government ; second edition, greatly improved: 12mo 208p — Milwaukie, published by J. H. Hopkins, 1846; deposited by Increase A. Lapham.
Larra (Rev. S. A., A. M. M. D.) Chain of Sacred Wonders: 16mo 211p —published by the author at Cincinnati, 1849 ; deposited by the author.

<<<Page: 142>>>

[ wa 186
Lawrence (Robert I.) Lectures to Youth, containing instructions preparatory to their entrance upon the active duties of life: 16mo 193p — Boston, published by James French, 1548; deposited by R. F. Lawrenee.
Lawrence (W. F. R.S.) A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, a new edition, edited with numerous additions, and one-hundred and seventy-six illustrations, by Isaac Hays, M. D.: 8vo large, 859p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Leeser (Isaac,) The book of daily Prayers for every day in the year, according to the custom of the German and Polish Jews : 8vo 243p — Philadelphia, published by C. Sherman, 5608; deposited by Isaac Leeser..
Leonarp (L. W.) Analy sis of the elementary sounds of the English Language, designed to accompany a chart of the same, with Worcester’s notation, by George Tilden: 16mo 36p — Keene, N. H., published by George Tilden, 1848; deposited by George Tilden.
The North American Spelling Book, conformed to Worcester’s dictionary, with a progressive series of easy reading lessons, new edition, revised and enlarged: 12mo 18( Ope Keene, published by George ‘Tilden, 1847 ; deposited by George Tilden.
Lesrur (Francis) A new system of Christian Philosophy: 8vo 40p— Hartford, 1848.
Leste (Miss Eliza) Amelia, or a young lady’s vicissitudes, a novel complete in one volume: 8vo pamphlet S6p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Leonilla Ly nmore, and Mr. and Mrs. Woodbridge, or a lesson for young wives, also, Dudley Villiers : S8vo pamphlet 118p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
The Indian meal book, uae aS the best receipts for the preparation of that article: 12mo 7 1p —— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
The Lady’s receipt book, a useful companion for large and small families, being a sequel to her former work on domestic cooking, comprising new and improved directions for preparing soups, shy meats, vegetables, poultry, game, ee puddings,
cakes, confectionery, ‘Sweetmeats, jellies, &c.; also, a list of dishes for breakfast, dinner and supper table: 12mo 405p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847.
Lwpevu (Henry George, M. D., and Scorr (Robert, M. D.,) A Greek Enlish lexicon, based on the German work of Francis Passow, with corrections and additions, and the insertion in alphabetical order of the proper names occurring in the principal Greek authors, by Henry Drisler, M. A.; lexicon 8yo 1705 5p: New

<<<Page: 143>>>

187 ft 4
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Locxe (J. De C linton) The Swiss family Robinson, second series, being the continuation of the work already published under that title, translated from the French, by J. De Clinton Locke, two vols. l6mo; vol. 1, 258p; vol. 2, 237p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Locxwoop (Ralph) An analytical and practical synopsis of all the cases argued and reversed in law and equity in the court for the correction of errors of the State of New York, from 1799 to 1847, with the names of the cases and a table of the titles, &c.: Svo large, 605p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., ISds : deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Lonerettow (Henry W adsworth) Evangeline, a tale of Acadia, sixth edition: 12mo 1653p — Boston, published by William D. Ticknor & Co., 1848; deposited by H. W. Longfellow.
Loomis (Elias, A. ie ) El eitens of geometry and conic sections: 8vo 222p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Tables of Logarithms of numbers and sines, and tangents for every ten seconds of the quadrant, with other useful tables: Svo large, 150p — New York, published by Harper & Brother rs, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Elements of plain and spherical trigonometry, with their applications to mensuration, surveying and navigation : 8vo large, 1483p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Lorratne (Carl) Gems for boys and girls: 18mo 112p— Hartford, published by Brown & Parsons, 1849; deposited by Brown & Parsons.
Lossine (B. J.) Biographical Sketches of the Signers of the Declaration of American Independence, the declaration historically considered, and a sketch of the leading events connected with the adoption of the articles of confederation and the federal constitations illustrated by fifty portraits and other engravings: 12mo 384p — New York, published by George I*. Cooledge & Brother, 1845 ; deposited by George F. Cooledge & Brother.
A Pictorial description of Obie, comprising a sketch of its physical geography, history, politic al divisions, resources, gOVernment and constitution, antiquities, public lands, &c., compiled from the best authorities, Jlusteated by maps tid forty engravings: 8vo 13lp— New York, published by Ensign & Thayer, 1849; deposited by Ensign & Thayer.
o, containing a compendium of the practice of the high court of chancery and the foundation of its rules, ete with an illustration of the analogy between pleadings at common law and equity, s cond Ame ‘rican from the last London edition, with notes Saal references to the American cases, by J. D. Wheeler: Svo large, 415p— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1546; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Lupe (D. G.) An Analysig of the principles 2 Equity pleading

<<<Page: 144>>>

c1] 188
Lyncu (Anne C.) Poems with illustrations: 8vo 189p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.
Lyncu (W. F., U.S. N.) Narratives of the United States Expedition to the River Jordan and the Dead Sea, with maps and numerous illustrations: Svo large, 508p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard 1849; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Lynp (James,) The Class Book of Etymology, designed to promote precision in the use, and facilitate the acquisition of a knowledge of the English language: 12mo 277p, with ake to both Greek, Latin and other roots, in 58p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1847; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.
The First Book of Etymology, designed to promote precision in the use, and facilitate the ac quisition of a knowledge of the English language for beginners: 12mo 215p — Philadelphia, published by E..C..& J. ’ Biddle, 1847.
M’CLELLANp (George, M. D.) Principles and Practice of Sur gery, edited by his son, John H. B. M’Clelland, M. D.: 8vo large, 452p — Philadelphia, published by Grige, Elliott & Co., 1848; deposited by John H. B. M’Clelland.
M’Curytock (John,) and Croox (G. R.) A First Book in Latin, containing Grammar exercises and vocabulas, on the method of constant imitation and repetition, second edition: Svo 409p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
A First Book in Greek, containing a full view of the form of words, with vocabularies and copious exercises on the method of constant imitation and repetition : Svo 3815p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
M’Cxovre (Samuel) The Psalms of David, and song of Solomon, in metre : 16mo 304p — Lewistown, Pennsylvania, published ‘by Samuel M’Clure, 1849 ; deposited by Samuel M’Clure.
M’Corp (Louisa 8S.) My Dreams: 12mo 211p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & ‘Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Macerecor, (James Jr.) Mechanics’ Guide for constructing belting, pulleys, cone pulleys and water wheels, &c., also, for computing the power of water wheels and high pressure steam engines, by James Macgregor, Jr., pamphlet : : 12mo 36p — Washington, printed by John T. Te 1846.
M‘Gurrey (William H., D. D.,) Newly revised Eclectic Primer, with pictorial illustrations: 16mo 60p— New York, published by Clark, Austin & Smith, 1849 ; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith.
Eclectic First Reader, permanent stereotype edition: 12mo 108p — Cincinnati, published by W. B. Smith, 1848; deposited by W. B. Sinith.
Newly revised Eclectic Second Reader, permanent stereotype edition: 12mo 192p — Cincinnati, published
by W. B. Smith, 1848; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith.

<<<Page: 145>>>

189 [ig M‘Gurrey (William H., D. D.) Newly revised Eclectic Third Reader, per-
manent stereotype edition: Svo 216p— Cincinnati, published
by W. B. Smith, 1848; deposited by W. B. Smith.
Newly revised Fourth Reader, permanent stereotype edition: 12mo 3836p — Cincinnati, published by W. B. Smith, 1848; deposited by W. B. Smith.
Macketiar (Thomas) Tain’s fortnight ramble, and other poems; 12mo 216p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1817; deposited by T. Mackellar.
M‘MurtTRIE (Henry, M. D.) Lexicon scientiarum; a dictionary of terms used in the various branches of anatomy, botany, ceology, oeometry, hygiene, mineralogy, natural philosophy, phy siology, zoology, &c: 12mo 246p — Philadelphia, published by E, eo & J. Biddle, 1847; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.
Magcoon (E. L.) Living orators in America: 12mo 462p— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Orators of the American revolution: 12mo 456p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Seribner.
Manan (Rev. Asa) The True Believer, his character, any and privileges, elucidated in a series of discourses ; 12mo 280p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. :
Maistre (M. Le Conte Joseph dé) Essay on the generative principle of political constitutitions, translated from the French; 16mo 173p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847; deposited by Little & Brown.
Mattory (R. P.) A panoramic view from Bunker Hill monument — Boston, published by Redding & Co., 1848; deposited by J. C. Crossman and R. P. Mallory.
Manvevitie (f., D. D.) An introduction to the author’s ‘Course of oe and elements of Reading and Oratory,”’ part. first : 12mo 212p — New York, published by D. Appleton & Co., [848 ; deposited by D. Appleton & Co.
Mansrietp (Edward D., Esq.,) The Mexican war}; a history of its origin,
and a detailed account of the victories which terminated in the surrender of the Capital, with the official dispatches of the Generals, illustrated with maps and engravings: 12mo 323p — New York, published by H. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited by H. S. Barnes & Co.
MarxuAm (Mrs.) A History of France from the conquest of Gaul by Julius Cesar, to the reign of Louis Phillippe, with conversations at the end of each ¢ chapte r, prepared for the use of schools ; the addition of a map, notes and questions, and a supplementary chapter brmging down the history to the present time, by Jacob Abbott : 12mo 629p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.

<<<Page: 146>>>

[aa 190
Marquart (John, Jr.) and Scuremer (Henry,) Gaging Simplified, or every merchant his own gager: 12mo 44p — Philadelphia, published by William S. Young, 1849; deposited by John Mar-
quart and Henry Schreiner.
Marryatr (Captain,) Valerie, a tale, one volume, 8vo pamphlet 98p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849.
Marsu (C. C.) La Ciencia de Teneduria de Libros, simplificada por la aplicacion de una regla infalible para acertar el deudor y el acredor, bien calculada para ens ensenar completamente la teoria jy practica de la partida doble, sienda una serie de operaciones mercantiles bien escojidas, y ‘arriglidas para former un curso completo de instruccion practicas designado paro el uso de escuelas y Casas de Comercio de las Americas. | Acompanando numerosos ejamplos de calcalos mercantiles. Traducido de la
. Vigisima Edicion inglesa por A. G. Beck, Bajo la immediata aoe del Autor: 8vo 195p— New York, published by J.
. Riker, 1849: deposited by C. C. Marsh.
Marvin (J. G. ) Legal Bibliography, or a thesaurus of American, English, Irish and Scoteh law books, together with some continental treatises, interspersed with critical observations upon their various editions and authority, to which is prefixed a copious list of abbreviations, by J. G. Marvin, counsellor at law: 8vo 800p — Philadelphia, T. & J. W. Johnson, 1847; deposited by J. G. Marvin.
‘Lason (John M., D D) The complete works of John M. Mason, D D, in four volumes, edited by his son, Ebenezer Mason: Bro large, vol. 1, 557p; vol. 2 , 593p; Pah 3, O9Sp; vol. 4 , 579p — New York, published by Baker & Schibrier) 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Mason (Richard, M. D.,) Mason’s Farrier and stud book, new edition, to which is added a prize essay on mules, and an appendix containing recipes for diseases of horses, oxen cows, calves, sheep, dogs, swine, &c., with a supplement, comprising an essay on domestic animals, especially the horse, &c., by J. S. Skinner : 12mo 415p — Philadelphia; published by Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1848; deposited by John Grigg.
Maxwett (John L.) The Czar, his court and people, ineluding a tour in Norway and Sweden: 12mo 5368p — New York, published by
Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Sennen
May (Caroline) The American Female Poets, with biographical and critical notices: 8vo large, 532p — Philadelphia, pubhshed by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Mayye (John, M. D.,) A Dispensa tory and Therapeutical Remembrancer : comprising the entire lists of materia medica, preparations and compounds, with a full and distinct version of every practical formula, as authorized by the London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Royal college of physicians, &c., revised, with the addition ot the formula of the United States Pharmacopeia, &e., by R. Eglefield Grifhth, M D: 8yvo 3829p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

<<<Page: 147>>>

191 [ag
Mayo (W.S., M. D.) Kaloolah, or journeyings to the Djebel Kumri, an autobiography of Jonathan Romer: 12mo 514p— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by W. S. Mayo, M. D.
Meics (Charles D., M. D.) Females and their Diseases, a series of letters to his class: Svo large, 670p— Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Obstetrics, the science and the art, with illustrations: Svo 685p— Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Meics (J. Forsyth, M. D.) A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Children: 8vo 5975p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by J. F. Meigs, M. D.
Merrvitie (Herman,) Redburn, his first voyage, being the sailor boy confession and reminiscence of the son of a gentleman in the merchant service: 12mo 390p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by H. Melville.
Mardi, and a voyage thither, two volumes, 12mo Vol. 1,865p; Vol. 2, 8387p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers; deposited by H. Melville.
Omoo, a narrative of adventures in the South Seas : 12mo 3889p — New York, published by Harper. & Brother, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Typee, a peep at Polynesian life, during a four months’ residence in the valley of the Marquesas, the revised edition, with a sequel, by Herman Melville: 12mo 3807p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Henry Melville.
Metreatr (Theron) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme judicial court of Massachusetts, volumes 10, 11 and 12: 8vo large — vol. 10, 640p; vol. 11, 629p; vol. 12, 615p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1349; deposited by Little & Brown.
Mires (Pliny) American Mnemotechny, or Art of Memory, theoretical and practical, on the basis of the most recent discoveries and improvements in Europe and America, &c., with a mnemotechnic dictionary, second edition: 12mo 40%p— New York, published by Wiley & Putnam, 1848; deposited by P. Miles.
Same, fifth edition: 12mo 4530p — Published by M. H. Newman & Co., 1848; deposited by P. Miles.
The Statistical Register and book of general reference and quotations, a compilation of remarkable events from Ancient and Modern history ; great discoveries and inventions ; literary and biographical chronology, remarkable battles, lists of sovereigns, &c.; also, poetical and prose selections, geographical statistics, value of coins, specific gravities, astronomical statistics, sentiments of flowers, mythological tables, names, &c., second edition: 12mo 200p — New York, published by Mark H. Newman & Co., 1849; deposited by Pliny Miles.

<<<Page: 148>>>

Lad 192
Miter (H., M. D.) A theoretical and practical treatise on human parturition: 8vo large, 463p— Louisville, published by John V. Cowling and George C. Davis, 1849; deposited by Henry Miller.
Minter (Linus W. ) Notes of an exile to Van Dieman’s Land, comprising incidents of the Canadian rebellion in 1838, trial of the author in Canada and subsequent appearance before her Majesty’s court of queen’s Bench in London, imprisonment in England, and transportation to Van Dieman’s Land, also an account of the horrible suffermgs endured by ninety political prisoners, during a residence of six years in that land of British slavery, together with sketches of the island, its history, productions, inhabitants, &c., &c.: 12mo — Fredonia, New York, 1846 ; deposited by Linus W. Miller.
Minirie (William,) A text book of Geometrical Drawings, abridged from the octavo edition for the use of schools, with an introduction to isometrical drawing, and an essay on linear perspective and shadows, the whole illustrated with forty-eight steel plates : 12mo 156p — Baltimore, published by William Minifie & Co., 1849 ; deposited by William Minifie.
The Architect, a text book of geometrical drawings for the use of mechanics’ and schools, with an introduction to isometrical drawing, and an essay on linear perspective and shadows, the whole illustrated with fifty-six steel Pe containing over two-hundred diagrams: 8vo large, 127 pe sBal-
timore, published by William Minifie & Co., 1849 ; donned by William Minifie.
Minot (George) Public Laws of the United States of America, passed at the second session of the thirtieth Congress, 1848 — 1849, carefully collated with the originals at W ashington, to be continued annually : 8vo large, 151p-— Boston, published by
Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by Little & Brown. Mitcuet (O. M., A. M.) The Plinetary and Stellar World, a popular ex-
position of the great discoveries and theories of modern astronomy, ina series of ten lectures: 12mo 356p— New York, published by Baker and Scribner, 1848; deposited by O. M. Mitchel.
Mircuett (S. Augustus) Intermediate or Secondary Geography, a system of modern geography comprising a description of the present state of the world, and its five great divisions — America, &c: illustrated by forty maps and numerous wood cut engravings : Ato 8 {Op : — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwaite & Co 18: 19; deposited by S. Augustus Mitchel i.
MitcHe.t (Donald G.) Giesh Gleanings, or a new sheaf from the old fields of Continental Europe, by He Marvel: 12mo 366p—New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Moure (Francis Philip D.) and Repwoop (Theophilus) Practical Pharmacy, the arrangements, apparatus and manipulations of the pharmaceutical shop and laboratory, edited with extensive additions,

<<<Page: 149>>>

edited with extensive additions by William Proctor, Jr. ; illustrated by five hundred engravings on wood: Svo large, 576p —— Philadelphia, published by he 2a & Blanchard, S49; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Mone tz (Claudius L.) A treatise on the practice of the courts of the State of New York, adapted to the code of procedure as amended by the act of April 4, 1849, and the rules of the Supreme court, to which is added ‘Nie practice in courts of justices of the peace, with an appendix of practical forms: 8vo large,’ d7dp —— Albany, published by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1849: deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould.
Monette (John W., M. D.) History of the discovery and settlement of the valley of the Mississippi, by the three great European powers, Spain, France and Great Britain, and “the subsequent occupation, settlement and extension of ‘the civil government of the Unite d States, until We year 1846, in two volumes : Svo large, vol. 1, 561p; vol. 2, 595p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Mowro (Rev. Edward) The Combatants; an allegory. From the London edition; with ie rane® executed by B. I’. Childs from original designs by Darley : 12mo 182p— New York, published by the General Protestant Episcopal Sunday School Union, 1848; deposited by John W. Mitchell.
MonraGuE (Edward P.) Narrative of the late expedition to the Dead Sea, from a diary by one of the party; with incidents and adventures from the time of the sailing of the expedition in November 1847, till the return of the same in December 1848. Illustrated with a map of the Holy Land, handsomely colored. 16mo 336p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849, deposited by Carey & Hart.
Moore (Jacob Bailey) Memoirs of American governors, vol. 1: Svo large, 439p — New York published by Gates & Stedman, 1846 ; deposited by Jacob Bailey Moore.
MoreneaD (Hon. J. M.) The Siamese Twins: 8yo 24p— published at Raleigh, 1848.
Morrir (Campbell) Chemical and Pharmaceutic Manipulations; a manual of the mechanical and chemic-mechanical operations of the laboratory, containing a complete description of the most approved apparatus, with instructions as to their application and management, both in manufacturing processes and in the more exact details of analysis and accurate research, by C. Morfit, assisted by Alexander Muckle; with four hundred and twenty-three illustrations: Svo large, 482p— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 18. i9,
Chemistry applied to the manufacture of soap and candles; illustrated with one hundred and seventy engravings on wood: 8vo 544p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Manures; their composition, preparation and action upon
Mis.—13.

<<<Page: 150>>>

ial 194
soils, with the quantities to be applied; being a field companion for the farmer; from the French of standard authorities: 16mo LOOp -— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Perfumery, its manufacture and use, with instructions m every branch of the art and recipes for all the fashionable preparations, illustrated by numerous woodcuts. From the French of Celnart and other late authorities, with additions and improvements. 12mo 285p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1547; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Mortey (C.) The Power of Kindness: 12mo 108p— New York, published by J. R. Wellman, 18465; deposited by C. Morley.
Morais (Pemberton P.) A Practical Treatise on the Law of Replevin in the United States; with an appendix of forms and a digest of statutes: Svo large, 8316p — Philadelphia, published by James Kay, Jn. }& Brother, 1849; deposited by James Kay, Ira & Brother.
Moses Thomas P.) Leisure Thoughts in prose and verse: 12mo 192p—
Portsmouth, published by Samuel A. Badger, 1849; deposited
: by Samuel A Badger.
Muucenserc (Henry A.) The Life of Major General Peter Muhlenberg of
the revolutionary army, by Henry A. Muhlenberg: 12mo 456p
— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, N19 ; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Mutter (J.) Principles of Physics and Meteorology; first American edition, revised and illustrated with five-hundred and thirty-eight engravings on wood and two colored plates : 8vo 635p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Murr (John) The American Formulary, comprising oath, verdict, deed, will, indenture, contract, lease, bond, notice, petition and other useful forms, pertaining to judicial and social affairs; with re~ marks concerning witnesses, jurors, verdicts, lawyers, instruc~ tions, wills, contracts, &c., 18mo — Alexandria, 1849; deposited by John Muir.
The American Reference Book, comprising in sundry divisions, divers useful tables, abbreviations, forms, rules, remarks, &c., &c., pamphlet: 18mo— Baltimore, 1847 ; deposited by John Muir.
Mourrny (John M’Leod,) and Jerrers (W. N. Jr.) Nautical routine and stowage; with short rules in Navigation: 8vo 174p— New York, “published by Henry Spear 1s. 19; deposited by Henry Spear.
Myers (Hamilton P.) The First of the Knickerbockers, a tale of 1673, second edition: 12mo 222p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George P. Putnam.
My Moruer: or recollections of maternal influence: 12mo 240p — New York, published by William H. Hyde, 1849; deposited by William H. Hyde.

<<<Page: 151>>>

195 ci]
Mytye (J. W.) and Craia (R. D.,) Reports of cases argued and determined in the high court of chancery, during dhe time of Lord Chancellor Cottenham ; with notes and references to both English and American OSS, by John A. Dunlap, counsellor at law, vol. 4, 1838-39-40; 2, 3, and 4 Vic toria — : Bio large, 719 —— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., and at Albany by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1846; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Napotron and the Marshals of the Empire, complete in two volumes, with sixteen steel portraits in military costume: Svo, vol. 1, 348p; vol. 2, 3872p: Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848 ; deposited by Carey & Hart.
NEANDER (Augustus) The Life of Jesus Christ in its historical connexion and historical development; translated from the fourth German edition, by John M‘Clintock and Charles E. Blumenthal: 8yvo large, 450p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, ISIS; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Neu (John, M. D. ,) and Smrrn (Francis Gurney, M. D.,) An analytical compendium of the various branches of medical science, for the use and os camination of students ; eee anatomy, 12mo, 180p; 2, Physiology,133p; 3, Surgery, 122p; 4, Obstetrics, 115p; 5, Materia Medica and Therapeutics, 115 5p; 6, Chemistry, 93p; 7 Practice of Medicine, 152p, 12mo — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1845; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
NeEWwTON (Sir Isaac,) Principia. The mathematical principles of Natural Philosophy translated into English by Andrew Mott; to which is added Newton’s system of the world; with a portrait taken from the bust in the Royal observatory at Greenwich; first American edition, carefully revised and corrected, with a life of the author, by N. W. Chittenden: S8vo large, OS lp— New York, published by Daniel Adee, 1548; deposited by Daniel Adee.
New Testament (The) in Comstock’s perfect alphabet : Svo 597p — Philadelphia, published by A. Comstock, M. D., 1845; deposited by Andrew Comstock, M. D.
Nicuotson (A.) Ireland’s welcome to the stranger, or, an excursion through Treland in 1844-45, for the purpose of personally investigating the condition of the poor: 12mo 456p -— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, L847; deposited by A. Nicholson.
Norris (William Henry,) Brown (George William,) and Brune (Frederick William, Jr.,) Digest of the ] Maryland reports, Comprising Harris & M‘Henry, four volumes; Harris & Johnson, seven volumes; Harris & Gill, two volumes: Gill & Johnson, twelve volumes; Bland’s.chancery reports, three volumes : 8yo large, 922p — Baltimore, published by Cushing & Brother; deposited by the authors.
Nortuenp (Charles, ) School dialogues; being a collection of exercises particularly designed for the use of schools; 12mo 8352p

<<<Page: 152>>>

grey 196 ue — Syracuse, published by L. W. Hall, 1849; deposited by Charles Northend.
Norton (Rev. Herman,) Record of Facts, concerning the persecutions at Madeira, in 1843 and 1846; the flight of a thousand converts to the West India Islands; and also the sufferings of those who arrived in the United States: 16mo 228p— New York, published by the American Protestant Society, 1849; deposited by Edward Vernon.
Norges on the structure and philosophy of the English language, designed for mutual or self instruction; also a text book for review in high schools, academies, and colleges: with a lecture on elocution, by the author of ‘‘ Lectures on the English Language ”’ : 18mo 43p — New York, published by Redfield & Savage, 1846 ; deposited by J. H. Hull.
Nuttine (B. F.) Initiatory drawing cards, in four parts, eighteen cards in each, presenting carefully drawn examples, and accompanied by directions illustrating the first principles of drawing, for the use of schools and families: 16mo — Boston, published by M. J. Whipple, 1849; deposited by M. J. Whipple.
OxsseRVATIONS and exhortations based upon the catechism of the Protestant Episcopal Church; intended chiefly for the use of teachers in instructing classes of servants or other uneducated persons, designed to accompany the church catechism, simplified by a member of the diocese of South Carolina: 16mo 84p — New York, published by Daniel Dana, Jr., 1847; deposited by Daniel Dana, Jr.
Oxncook, (Dr.) Receipt Book; with notes for the preservation of health: 12mo 144p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Ouyey (J., A. M.) A Practical Introduction to the Study of Geography; embellished with maps from steel plates, and engravings on wood: 16mo 108p— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by Canfield & Robins.
School Atlas containing twenty-four maps: 4to — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co.; deposited by D. F.. Robinson.
An Elementary Geography, adapted to Olney’s outline maps, for common schools and general use : 16mo 90p— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by Pratt, Woodford & Co.
A practical system of modern geography simplified and adapted to the capacity of youth; containing numerous tables, and embellished with numerous engravings of manners, customs, &c., revised and illustrated by a new and enlarged atlas, fifty-fifth edition: 12mo 3800p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by D. F’. Robinson.
Onperponk (Henry, Jr.) Documents and letters intended to illustrate the revolutionary incidents of Queens county; with connecting narratives, explanatory notes and additions: 12mo 264p— New

<<<Page: 153>>>

197 [aa
York, published by Leavitt, Trow & Co., 1846; deposited by H. Onderdonk, Jr.
Revolutionary incidents of Suffolk and Kings counties; with an account of the battle of Long Island, and the British prisons and prison ships of New York: 12mo 268p — New York, published by Leavitt & Co. 1849.
Orpnan Twrys (The); or the adventures of a brother and sister; a poem= 12mo 100p— New York, published by Stanford & Swords, 1849; deposited by David Bigler.
Orton (J. W.) The miner’s guide and metallurgist’s directory: 16mo 86p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849, deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.
Oscoop (Frances Sargent) Poems; illustrated by Huntingdon, Darly, Rossiter, Cushman and Osgood: Svo 466p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1850; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Oswatp (John,) An Etymological Dictionary of the English Language; revised and improved, and especially adapted to the purpose of teaching English composition in schools and academies, by J. M. Keazy3; to which is appended a key to the Latin, Greek, and other roots: 12mo— Philadelphia, 1847; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.
Our.ines of the History of France, from the earliest times to the RevoJution of 1848; for schools and families, with numerous: engravings and questions for the examination of pupils: 16mo 240p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1848 ; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co.
Paine (Martyn, A. M., M. D.) The Institutes of Medicine: Svo large, &26p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Materia Medica and Therapeutics: 12mo 411p — New York, published by Samuel S. & William Wood, 1848; deposited by Samuel S. & William Wood.
Pacer (David P., A. M.) Theory and practice of teaching, or the motives and methods of good school-keeping: 12mo 3849p — Syracuse, published by Hall & Dickson, 1847; deposited by D. P. Page.
Patry (William,) A Treatise on the Law of Principal and Agent, chiefly with reference to mercantile transactions; thifd edition, with considerable additions, by J, H. Lloyd, third American edition, with further extensive additions, by J. A. Dunlap: 8vo large, A61p— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847 ; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Parentat Instruction, or Guide to Wisdom and Virtue; designed for young persons of both sexes; selected chiefly from the writings of an eminent physician: 12mo 252p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
PARKER (Richard Green, A. M.) Geographical Questions. Questions in Geography, adapted for the use of Morse’s, Woodbridge’s, Worcester’s, Mitchel’s, Field’s, Malte Brun’s, Smith’s, Olney’s, Goodrich’s, or any other respectacle collection of maps; to

<<<Page: 154>>>

gil. 3 198
which is added a concise description of the terrestrial globe : 12mo 60p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Parker (Richard Green) First Lessons in Natural Philosophy ; abridged
ke from the compendium of school philosophy : 16mo 150p— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.
A school compendium of natural and experimental Philosophy, embracing the elementary principles of mec hanics, hy drostatics, hydraulics, pneumatics, acoustics, pyronomies, optics, astronomy, electricity, ¢ gvalvanism, magnetism, electro magnetism, and magneto electricity, with a description of the steam and locomotive engines, a new edition with additions and improvements: 8yo 382p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.
Rhetorical Reader, exercises in rhetorical reading, with a series of introductory lessons: 12mo 432p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1349; deposited by A. S. Barnes.
Parke (Uriah) Stewart’s new edition, farmers’ mechanics’ and merchant’s practical Arithmetic, revised and improved, with additions; twentieth edition : 12mo 179p — Hagerstown, published by W. Stewart, 1848; deposited by W. Stewart.
Parxman (Francis, Jr.,) The California and Oregon trail; being sketches of Prairie and Rocky mountain life: 12mo 448p—-— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.
Patterns for ornamenting the covers of books, patterns of rolls, stamps, scrolls and connecting lines : 4to 24p — Philadelphia, published by Gaskill & Copper, 1847; deposited by Gaskill & Copper.
Parrerson (Robert) The Reporter’s Assistant ; being an exposition of the reporting style of phonography: 12mo 52p — Philadelphia, published by E. Webster; deposited by R. Patterson.
Pauupine (J. K.) The Hertan and his Daughter, two volumes: 8vo vol. 1, 216p; vol. 2, 270p; New York, published by Baker & Sérihe ner, 1849: deposited by Baker & Scribner.
he Old Continental; or, the price of liberty, two volumes, [ first volume only receiv ede | 16mo vol. 1, 191p — New York, published by Paine & Burgess, 1846; deposited by Paine &
Burgess.
And Pauxpine (William Irv ing) American Comedies: con-
tents, the Bucktails, or Americans in England ; the Noble Exile ; Madmen all, or the Gure of love; Antipathies, or the Enthusiasts by the ears: 12mo 295p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Perce (Oliver B.) Natural series of Reading books, second reader: 12mo 252p —— New York, published by Gates, Stedman & Co., 1849 ; deposited by O. B. Peirce.

<<<Page: 155>>>

199 [ Aa Penn (William) The life of William Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania;
with numerous illustrative anecdotes and embellishments: 16mo — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Prortr’s Vape Mecum (The) Comprising a colaenen of valuable receipts in the useful and interesting arts, &c., ; by a practical chemist: 16mo 46p — Buffalo, published a Jewett, Thomas & Co., 1849; deposited by George W. Merchant.
PeRKINS ee R.,, A.M.) Perkins’ Sones: an elementary arithmetic. Stereotype edition, revised and improved: 8vo 347p — Hartford, published by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1849; deposited by George R. Perkins.
Higher Arithmetic, ee an appendix, stereotype edition; revised and improved: 12mo 3842p — Utica, published by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1818: deposited by Geo. R. Perkins.
A Treatise on Algebra, embracing besides the elementary principles, all the higher parts usually taught in colleges, &c., &c. Second edition ; revised, enlarged and improy ed: 8vo: 420p — Utica, published by Tete. Hawley &Co, 1847; deposited by George R. Perkins.
Elements of Geometry, with practical applications; designed for beginners: 12:n0 30Sp — Utica, published by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1847; deposited by George R. Perkins.
Peter Schlemihl in America,: 8vo 494p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.
PETERS (Richard) A full and Sel Digest of the decisions in common law, equity and adiniralt y of the courts of the United States, from the organization of the government in 1789 to 1847, in the Supreme, Circuit, District and Admiralty court ; reported in Dallas, Cranch, Wihesiton, Peters and Howard’s Supreme court reports; in Gallison, Mason, Paine, Peters, Washington, Wallace, Sumner, Story, Baldwin, Brockenbrough, andl M’ Iedahi’s Circuit ‘éourt reports, and in Bees, Ware, Peters and Gilpin’s District and Admiralty reports; with an. appendix, &e., &c.; two volumes: S8vo large, Vol. 1, 8319p; Vol. 2, 770p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart ; deposited by Richard Peters.
Perer (Wilham, A. M.) Spec imens of the poets and poetry of Greece and a) by various translators: 8vo large, 530p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Pererson (Charles J.) The military Heroes of the Revolution, with a narrative of the war of Independence : 8vo large, 487p — Philadelphia, published by William A. Leary, LS48; deposited by James L. Gihon.
The military Heroes of the War of 1812; with a narrative of the war: 8vo large, 208p— Philadelphia, published
by Wilham A. Leary, 1848; deposited by James L. Gihon,

<<<Page: 156>>>

fi ij 200
a (Charles J.) The military Heroes of the War with Mexico, with anarrative of the war: 8vo large, 282p — Philadelphia, published by William A. Leary, 1848; deposited by James L. Gihon.
Puetres (Mrs. Lincoln,) Ida Norman; or, trials and their uses: 12mo 272p — Baltimore, published by Cushing & Brother, 1848 ; deposited by Cushing & Brother.
Picxerine (John, LL. D.) A Comprehensive Lexicon of the Greek Language, adapted to the use of schools and colleges, in the United States. Third edition, greatly enlarged and improved: 8vo 1456p — Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co.; deposited by Wilkins, Carter & Co., and Sarah Pickering, Ex-
ecutrix.
Pickerine (John) The working man’s Political Economy, founded upon the principle of immutable justice, and the inalienable rights of man; designed for the promotion of national reform : 8vo 206p —— Cincinnati, published by Thomas Varney, 1847; deposited by John Pickering.
Pinneo (T.S., M. D.,) The Heman’s young ladies Reader, for female schools; containing extracts m prose and poetry, selected from the writings of more than one hundred and thirty different authors; Eclectic series: Svo 480p— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co.; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith.
Electic educational series; primary Grammar of the English language for beginners; 16mo 110p — Cincinnati, published by Winthrop B. Smith, 1849 ; deposited by W. B. Smith.
Pontiac; or the siege of Detroit; a drama, in three acts: 12mo 60p —Boston, published by Samuel Colman, 1835; deposited by Samuel Colman.
Porter (William) A quarter race in Kentucky, and other sketches, illustrative of scenes, characters and incidents, throughout the universal Yankee nation; with illustrations by Darley : 12mo 203p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Porter (J. Hamilton, M. D.,) The Consumptive’s Guide to health; or the invalid’s five questions and the doctor’s five answers; being a comprehensive and practical treatise on pulmonary consumption, &c., &c.: 12mo 78p — Philadelphia, published by the author, 1849; deposited by J. Hamilton Potter, M. D.
Prescorr (William H.) History of the conquest of Peru, with a preliminary view of the civilization of the Incas; two volumes Svo large, — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by William H. Prescott.
Primer — The illustrated Primer, or child’s first book; embellished with numerous engravings : Sy o — New York, published by George F. Cooledge & Brother, 1847; deposited by George F. Cooledge & Brother.
Pore (Dr. J. H.,) Organon der Weltgeschichte : Svo 125p — Cincinnati,

<<<Page: 157>>>

201 [
1848; printed by C. F. Schmidt, and for sale at New York by W. Radde; deposited by J. H. Pulte.
Purvon (John, Esq.,) and Stroup (George M.) A digest of the laws of Pennsylvania, from the year 1700 to the 22d day of April 1546; seventh edition; the first four editions by the late John Purdon, isq-, the last three, by George M. Stroud: Svo large — Philadelphia, published by Thomas Davis, 1847.
Supplement to the digest of the laws of Pennsylvania, from 22d April 1846, to 11th April 1848, with some older laws not included in the last edition of Purdon’s digest; by F. C. Brightly : 8vo — Philadelphia, published by J. Kay & Brother, 1848; deposited by F. C. Brightly.
Purnam (John Phelps) United States digest; being a digest of decisions of the courts of the common law, equity and ea ae in the United States: vol. 1, annual digest for 1847; vol. 2, annual digest for L848: Svo large — Boston, published by ‘Lite & Brown; vol. 1 in 1848, 498p; vol. 2 in 1849, 502p; deposited by Little & Brown.
Quary (Jones, M. D.,) Human anatomy; edited by, Richard Quain, F. R. 8. and William Sharpey, M. D., F. R.S., First American, Be the fifth London edition, edited by Joseph Leidy, M. D.: two oe with over five hundred illustrations: 8vo + ol L. 638p; vol. 2, 6389p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Rasapan (Don Carlos) Manescas oral system of teaching living languages, illustrated by a practical course of lessons in the Spanish language, through the medium of the English; in one volume : Svo 1029p — New York, printed at the Spanish printing office No. 88 William street, 1846; deposited by Don Carlos Rabadan.
Ranpauu (Henry S.) Sheep Husbandry in the South ; comprising a treatise on the acclimation of sheep i in the emutnern states, an account of the different breeds ; also, a complete manual of breeding, summer and winter management, and of the treatment of diseases; with portraits and other illustrations, in series of letters to R. F. W. Allston, Esq.: Svo large, 320p — Philadelphia, published by J. S. Skinner & Son, 1848 ; deposited by J. S. Skinner & Son.
Raw e (William, Jr.) Reports of cases adjuged in the Supreme court of Pennsylvania. Volumes one and two. Se ong edition, revised
and corrected ; 8vo; vol. 1, 480p; vol. 2, 476p — Philadel. phia, published by. Thomas Davis, 1849 ; deposited by Thomas Davis.
Ray (Joseph) Eclectic educational series—Algebra, part first, on the analytic and inductive method of instruc tion with numerous practical exercises } designed for common schools and academies. Stereotype edition: 12mo 240p— Cincinnati, published by Winthrop B. Smith & Co., 1848; deposited by Winthrop 8B. Smith.

<<<Page: 158>>>

, 208
Ray (Joseph) Arithmetic: part second —A thorough course of mental arithmetic, by induction and analysis. Revised edition: 16mo 128p — Cincinnati, published by Winthrop B. Smith, 1849; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith.
Arithmetic, part third —on the inductive and analytic methods of instruction, embracing cancellation and factoring. New and thoroughly revised edition. Designed for schools and acadenues: 16mo 3820p — Cincinnati, published by Winthrop B. Smith & Co.; deposited by W. B. Smith.
Reap (Thomas Buchanan) Lays and ballads: 12mo 140p — Philadelphia, published by George S. Appleton, and at New York by D. Appleton & Co., 1849; deposited by George S. Appleton.
The female poets of America; with portraits, biographical notices, and specimens of their writings: Svo large, 420p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849 ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
Reysaup (Madame Charles) The Cadet de Colobrires. A tale of the old convents of Paris; translated from the French. Complete in one volume. Second edition: Syvo 92p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Ruoaps (J., M. D.) The second part of practical arithmetic: 12mo 204p— Philadelphia, published by John H. Simon, 1849; deposited by J. Rhoads.
Ricuarpson (William H.) Journal of a private soldier in Colonel Doniphan’s command: 8vo 84p— Baltimore, 1847; deposited by W. H. Richardson.
Journal of a private soldier in the campaign of New and Old Mexico, under the command of Colonel Doniphan. Second edition: 12mo 96p — Baltimore, published by J. W. Woods, 1848; deposited by William H. Richardson.
Ricke (S.S.) No. 1, Deutscher Schulbiicher. A. B.C. Buch: 12mo32p — Columbus, published by Whiting & Huntington, 1848; deposited by Whiting & Huntington.
Rippie (Joseph Esmond,-M. A.,) and Arnoup (T. k., M. A.) A copious and critical English Latin lexicon, founded on the German Latin Dictionary of Dr. Charles Ernest Georges. First American
edition, carefully revised, and contaming a copious dictionary of proper names from the best sources; by Charles Anthon, LL. D.: Svo large, 753p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Rine (David) Key to three thousand exercises in arithmetic, and appendix ; 12mo 36p—— Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1847; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.
RincevBercius (Joach. Fortius) The celebrated treatise of Joach. Fortius Ringelbergius de Ratione Studii: translated from the edition of Van Erpe, by G. B. Earp, Coll. Corp. Xti. Cant.: with preface and appendix, by W. H. Odenheimer, A. M.: 12mo 103p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.

<<<Page: 159>>>

203 [ 1
Rirtey (R. 8.) The war with Mexico. In two volumes: Svo vol.1, 524p ; vol. 2, 550p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Rirrer (Thomas, M. D.,) A medical manual and medicine-chest companion for popular use in families and on ship board, for the treatment of the ordinary diseases of the human system. Fourth edition, revised and enlarged: 12mo L48p — New York,. published by S. W. Benedict, 1849; deposited by Thomas Ritter.
Ross (John L.) Streaks of a Sqiiatter life, and far west scenes. A series of humorous sketches, descriptive of incidents and character in the wild west ; to which are added other miscellaneous pieces, by Solitaire: 12mo 187p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Roserts (Samuel) Digest of select British statutes, comprising those, which, ac cording t to the report of the Judges of the Supreme Court made to the Legislature, appears to be in force in Pennsylvania; with some others; with notes and illustrations; second editions with additional notes and references to English and American decisions, giving construction to these statutes, down to the present time, and also, the report made by the Judges of the Supreme
fourt to the Legislature. By Robert E. Wright, counsellor at law: 8vo large, 444p — Philadelphia, published by James Kay ITA Ss Brother, and at Pittsburgh by C. A. Kay, 1847; depos sited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.
Rosinson (Conway) An account of discoveries in the west until 1519, and of voy ages to and along the Atlantic coast of North America, from 1520 to 1573. Prepared for “The Virginia historical and philosophical society,’? and published by the society : Svo large — Richmond, printed by Shepherd & Colin, 1845; deposited by Wilham Maxw ell.
Rosiyson (Horatio N., A. M.) A treatise on astronomy descriptive, physical and practical. Designed for schools, colleges and private students: Svo 3847p — Albany, published by Erastus Kk. Pease & Co., 1549; deposited by H. N, Robinson.
University edition. A theoretical and practical treatise on algebra; in w hich the excellencies of the demonstrative methods of the French are combined with the more practical operations of the English, and concise solutions are pointed out and partic ularly incule ated; designed for schools, colleges, and private students: 12mo large, 3828p —— Cincinnati, published by Jacob Ernst, 1847; depositcd by Horatio N. Ro-
binson.
Elements of natural philosophy, with some of their results and applications; designed for schools, academies, and private students: 12mo 87) —— Cincinnati, published by Jacob Ernst, 1848; deposited by H. N. Robinson.
Rosinson (Rew Phitchas. A. M.) Immortality ; a poem in ten cantos: 12mo 411p — New York, published by Leavitt, Trow & Co., 1846 ; deposited by Phinehas Robinson, A. M.

<<<Page: 160>>>

iy 204
Ropeers (M. M., M. D.) Scientific agriculture, or the elements of chemistry, geology, botany and meteorology, applied to practical agriculture; illustrated by numerous engravings and a copious glossary: 12mo 279p — Rochester, published by Erastus Darrow, 1848; deposited by Erastus Darrow.
Rosemary (The) A collection of sacred and religious Poetry, from the English and American poets; with elegant illustrations: Svo large, 248p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; deposited by Lindsay & blakiston.
Rowron (Frederic) The female poets of Great Britain, chronologically arranged, with copious selections and critical remarks; with additions, by an American editor, and elegantly engraved illustrations by celebrated artists: Svo large, 583p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Roy (William L.) A new and original exposition of the book of Revelations, as well as the prophecies of Daniel, Ezekiel, Joel, &c.: with useful and practical observations; together with numerous citations from the Jewish Talmuds and Targums, and also from Ancient History and authors, illustrating more fully the symbolical language of this mysterious book: 8vo 3824p — New York, published by D. Fanshaw, 1848; deposited by William L. Roy.
Royte (J. Forbes, M. D., F. R. S.) Materia Medica and Therapeutics; including the preparations of the pharmacopeias of London, Edinburgh, Dublin and of the United States; with many new medicines. Edited by Joseph Carson, M. D., with ninety-eight illustrations: Svo large, 689p— Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Rusy (The) A Token of Friendship for 1849, with superb steel engravings, from designs by celebrated artists: 8vo 304p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Russetx (Francis T.) The Juvenile Speaker; comprising elementary rules and exercises in declamation, with a selection of pieces for practice: 12mo 263p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Russevu (William,) Harper’s New York class book ; comprising outlines of the geography and history of New York; biographical notices of eminent individuals, sketches of scenery and natural history; accounts of public institutions, &c., &c. Arranged as a reading book for schools: 12mo 669p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Introduction to the primary Reader of Russell’s elementary series; designed to accompany the Spelling book: 12mo 112p — Boston, published by Charles Tappan, 1847 ; deposited by William Russell.
SaBine (Lorenzo) The American Loyalists; or, biographical sketches of adherents to the British crown in the war of the revolution,

<<<Page: 161>>>

alphabetically arranged ; with a preliminary historical essay : 8vo 733p —— Boston, published by Little & Brown, 18-47 ; deposited by Little & Brown.
Saussury (J. H.) Prize Essay. History and chemical investigation of maize or Indian corn: 8vo 201p— Albany, published by C. Van Benthuysen, 1849; deposited by J. H. Salsbury.
SaLKeLp (Joseph) Classical Antiquities, or a compendium of Roman and Grecian antiquities; with a sketch of ancient mythology: 16mo 316p-— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
A First book in Spanish; or, a practical introduction to the study of the Spanish language, &c.; Reading lessons and a vocabulary, &c.; 12mo 396p — New York, “published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper ‘& Brothers.
Sayprorp (Hon. Lewis H.) Report of cases argued and determined in the court of chancery of the state of New York, before the Hon. Lewis H. Sandford, vice-chancellor of the first circuit. : 8vo large, vol. 2, EOD; vol. 3, 715p— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co.; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.
Reports of cases argued and determined in the Superior court} of the city of New York: 8vo large, 7996p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1849; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co. ;
Sanps (George W.) Mazelli, and other poems ; 12mo 156p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; deposited by George W. Sands.
Sancer (George P.) A table of the cases contained in the three volumes of the United States Digest, and in the two volumes of the supplement; alphabetically arranged, with a reference for each case to the volume and page of the report whence the case is taken, and to the volume and page of the Digest where it is found: 8vo 787p— Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849; deposited by Little & Brown.
Sarcent (F. W., M. D.,) On bandaging and other operations of minor Surgery : Svo 379p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 : deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Sartain (J.) The American gallery of Art, from the works of the best artists, with poetical and prose illustrations! by distinguished ‘Atneritun authors: 4to 110p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Scenes at Washington. A story of the last generation; by a citizen of Baltimore: 12mo 197p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Prothers.
Scumipt (Peter Von) The young Assayer’s and Miner’s assistant, compiled nou the best authors on chemistry and geology ; 16th6 O8p —
New York, published by G. W. Palmer, 1849 ; a mer by
Pete? Von ‘Schmidt.

<<<Page: 162>>>

Scumucker (S. M., A. M.,) The errors of modern Infidelity illustrated and j refuted: 12mo 480p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1848 ; deposited by S. M. Schmucker.
Scuwartz (Theodor) Handbuch fiir den Freimaurer, oder der Hieroglyphen Deuter. Enthaltend treue Erklirungen der Symbole des Lehrlings-Gesellen und Meister-Grades: 12mo 141p — Louisville, printed by Scheeffer und Doen, 1849; deposited by Theodor Schwartz.
Scripyer (B. F.) Camp life of a Volunteer. A campaign in Mexico, or a glimpse at lifeim camp, by ‘“‘ One who has seen the Elephant :”’ 8vo 75p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1847; deposited by Grigg, Elhot & Co.
Seaman (Ezra C.) Essays on the progress of Nations, in productive industry, civilization, population and wealth; illustrated by statistics of mining, agriculture, manufactures, commerce, banking revenues, internal improvements, emigration, mortality and population ; Svo large, 455p — Detroit, published by M. Geiger & Co., 1846; deposited by E. C. Seaman.
Supplement to essays on the progress of Nations, No. 2: 8vo 87p — New York, 1848.
Serceant (Thomas) and Rawie (Wilham, Jr.,) Reports of cases adjudged in the Supreme court of Pennsylvania. Ssecond edition, revised and corrected: Svo large, : vol. 13, 478p; vol. 14, 476p; vol. 15, 498p; vol. 16, 476p; vol. 17, 474p —Philadelphia, published by Thomas Davis; deposited by Thomas Dayis.
SwakspPEaARE (William) A supplement to the plays of William Shakspeare: comprising seven dramas, which have been ascribed to his pen, but which are not included with his writings in modern editions, viz: the two Noble Kinsmen; the London Prodigal; Thomas Lord Cromwell; Sir John Oldcastle; the Puritan, or, the Widow of Watling; the Yorkshire tragedy of Locrine. Edited with notes, and an introduction by William Gilmore Simms, Esq. First American edition: 8vo large, 178p — New York, published by George T. Cooledge & Brother, 1848; deposited by George T. Cooledge & Brother.
Suarswoop (George) The public and general statutes passed by the Congress of the United States of America, from 1837 to 1847, inclusive, whether expired, repealed or in force; arranged in chronological order, with marginal references; being a continua; tion of the laws published under the inspection of Joseph Story, one of the Justices of the Supreme court of the United States. Being volume 5: S8vo large, pages 2637 to 3280 — Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, 1848; deposited by T. & J. W Johnson.
Suarruck (W. B.) The Columbian drawing cards, Nos. 1, 2, and 38 — Cincinnati, published by Bradley & Anthony, 1848; deposited by W. B. Shattuck.
The Columbian drawing book; designed for schools and private instruction. In six numbers: No.1, 4to 25p — Cincin

<<<Page: 163>>>

207 eo
nati, published by Bradley & Anthony, 1848; deposited by W. B. Shattuck.
Same No. 1, second and improved edition: same publishers, 1849; deposited by W. B. Shattuck.
Same No. 2, same publishers, 1849 ; deposited by W, B. Shattuck.
Sripp (Barnard) Fame; and other poems: 12mo 212p — Philadelphia, pub-
lished by E. H. Butler & Co., 1848; deposited by B. Shipp.
Suortrietp (Luke) The Western merchant. A narrative, containing useful
instruction for the western man of business who makes his purchases in the east — also, information for the eastern men whose customers are in the west, &c.: 12mo 268p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co, 1849; deposited by Grigg, Elliot & Co.
Wild western scenes, a narrative of adventures in the western wilderness, &c., beautifully illustrated: 12mo 270p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Eliot & Co., 1849; deposited by Grigg, Elhot & Co.
Sipyey (J. C.) Map of the circuit of ten miles around the city of Philadel-
phia, with the names of roads, villages, mills, property owners, taverns, &c. From original surveys, by J. C. Sidney, civil engineer; Delaware county by Dr. Ash — Philadelphia, published by Robert P. Smith, 1847.
Sicourney (Mrs. L. H.) Myrtis, with other etchings and sketchings; 12mo
2952p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Illustrated poems; with designs by Felix O. C. Darley; engraved by American artists: 8vo large, 408p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849. deposited by Carey & Hart.
Situan (Benjamin, Jr., M. A.) Frst principles of chemistry, for the use
Simms (W.
of colleges and schools; with more than two hundred illustrations: Svo 492p— Philadelphia, published by Loomis & Peck, 1847 ; deposited by Loomis & Peck. Gilmore) The life of Captain John Smith, the founder of Virgima: 12mo 379p — New York, published by G. F Cooledge & Brother, 1846; deposited by W. Gilmore Simms.
The life of the Chevalier Bayard: 12mo 401p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Smepes (W. C.) A Digest of the cases decided and reported in the high
court of errors and appeals, and the Superior court of chancery of the state of Mississippi, from 1818 to 1847: Svo large, 441p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847; deposited by Little & Brown.
Smepes (W. C.) and Marsuatu (T. A.) Report of cases argued and deter-
mined in the high court of errors and appeals for the state of Mississippi, yol 12, Containing all the cases for January term,

<<<Page: 164>>>

Toland 208
1849; 8vo large, 496p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849; deposited by W. C. Smedes and T. A. Marshall.
Smepes (W. C.) and Marsuatr (T. A.) Reports of cases argued and determined in the high court of errors and appeals for the state of Mississippi; vols. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12; vol. 7, containing cases for Noyember and January sin 1546; vol. 8, containing cases for January term 1847, vol. 9, containing cases for January terms 1847, and 1848; vol. 10, containing cases for January term 1848; vol. 11, containing all the cases for November term 1818: and volt lie containing all the cases for January term!1849.:.; Sv large, vol. 7, 9183p; vol. 8, 870p; vol. 9, 704p; vol. 10, 708p; vol. 11, 684p; vol. 12, 796p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, ols. 7 and 8, in 1847, vols. 9 and 10, in 1848 and vol. 11, in 1849: deposited by W. C. Smedes and T. A. Marshall.
Sorru (Augustus W., LL. D.,) An elementary treatise on Mechanics; embracing the theory of statics and dynamics and its application to solids and fluids; prepared for the under graduate course in the Wesleyan University : 8vo 8307p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Suitru (Fitch E.) Commentaries on statute and constitutional Law and statutory and constitutional construction; containing an examination of adjudged cases on constitutional law, under the constitution of the United States, and the constitutions of the respective states, concerning legislative power; and also the consideration of the rules of law in the construction of statutes and constitutional provisions: 8yo large, 976p — Albany, published by Gould, Banks & Gould, sds : ie by Gould, Banks & Gould.
Soutu (Henry) The musical primer and juvenile Instructor; embracing the round note and numeral systems of notation. In two parts — part one, revised and improved: 16mo 3536p — Chambersburg, published by the proprietor ; deposited by the proprietor. Three copies.
Souru (J. Calvin) The illustrated Hand book; a new guide for travelers through the United States of America; embellished with one hundred and twenty-five highly finished engravings ; accompanied by a large and accurate map: 12mo 3935 — New York, published by Sherman & Smith, 1846; deposited by Sherman & Smith.
Smity (Hon. John Cotton, LL. D.) The Correspondence and Miscellanies of Hon. John Cotton Smith, LL. D., with an eulogy pronounced before the Connecticut historical society at New Haven May 27, 1846; by Rev. William W. Andrews: 12mo 328p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Smiru (Oakes E.) The Salamander, found amongst the papers of the late Ernest Helfenstein, second edition; 12mo 149p — New York, published by Georee P, Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.

<<<Page: 165>>>

Siri (Oliver, A. M.,) Outlines of Nature; 12mo 198p— New York, 1847; deposited by Oliver Smith.
Snir (R. M.) The Child’s first book in Geography; illustrated by eighteen maps, and upwards of one hundred beautiful engravings : 18mo 160p —Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1849 ; deposited by Grigg, Elhot & Co.
Modern Geography, for the use of schools, academies, &c., ona new plan; illustrated with maps and numerous engravings : Ato 80p——Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1848; deposited by Grigg, Elhot & Co.
Syetuen (Nicholas,) Sermons of the late Nicholas Snethen, minister of the Gospel in the Methodist Protestant Church, written by himself in the 69th year of his age; edited by Worthington Garrettson Snethen. Frst edition: 12mo 480p — Washington, published by Ulysses Ward, 1846 ; deposited by Ulysses Ward.
Snetuen (W. G.) The Black Code of the District of Columbia: 8vo 61p — New York, 1848.
Syow Fraxe: a Holiday Gift for 1849: 12mo 5329p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
A Holiday Gift for 1850: 12mo 330p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. ,
Sottey (Prof. E.) Syllabus of a complete course of lectures on Chemistry, including its application to the arts, agriculture and mining. Revised, with additions, by the author of ‘* Chemical and Pharmaceutical Manipulations? &c.: Svo 198p— London, published by Longman, Brown, Green & Longmans, and at Philadelphia, by Carey & Hart; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Soutuey (Robert, Esq., LL. D.) The Life of John Wesley, and rise and progress of Methodism ; with notes by the late Samuel ‘Taylor Coleridge, Esq., and remarks on the life and character of John Wesley, by the late Alexander Knox, Esq. Edited by Rey. Charles Cuthbert Southey, A. M. Second American edition, with notes &c. by Rev. Daniel Curry, A. M. 2 volumes: 12mo large, vol. 1, 476p; vol. 2, 454p— New York, published, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
SoutHwortu (Emma D. E. Nevitt) Retribution ; or the vale of shadows. A tale of passion: S8vo 1O8p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Sparks (Jared) The Library of American Biography, conducted by Jared Sparks. Second series. Volumes 11, 12, 15, 14, 15; volume IL containing the life of Stephen Decatur, by Lieutenant Su:idell Mackenzie ; volume 12 containing the lives of Edward l’veble, by Lorenzo Sabine, and William Penn, by George HE. ills ; volume 13 containing the lives of Daniel Boone, John M. Peak and Benjamin Lincoln, by Francis Bowen; volume 14 containing the life of John Ledyard, by Jared Sparks; volume: 19, containing the lives of William Richardson Davie, by Fordyce M. Hubbard, and Samuel Kirkland, by Samuel K. Lothrop:
Mis.—14.

<<<Page: 166>>>

16mo vol. 11, 443p; vol. 12, 408p; vol. 18, 4384p; vol. 14, 419p; vol. 15, 461p — Boston, published by Little & Brown : deposited by Little & Brown.
Spencer (George, A. M.) Latin Lessons, with exercises in parsing; introductory to Bulhion’s Latin Grammar and Latin Reader. Second edition, 12mo 196p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1545; deposited by George Spencer.
Spencer (Rey. J. A., A. M.) Greek Reading Book for the use of schools; containing the substance of the practical introduction to Greek construing, and a treatise on the Greek particles, by ‘Thomas Kerchever Arnold, M. A., and also a copious selection from Greek authors, with English notes critical and explanatory, and a lexicon: 12mo 618p — New York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1848 ; deposited by D. Appleton & Co.
The four Gospels and Acts of the Apostles, in Greek; with English notes, critical, philological and exegeti= cal, maps, indices, &c.; together with the epistles and apocas lypse. The whole forming the complete text ofthe New Testament, by the Rev. J. A. Spencer, A. M.: 12mo large, 611p --New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Spring (Gardener, D. D.) The Bethel Flag; a series of short discourses to seamen: 12mo 3809p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
The Power of the Pulpit; or thoughts addressed to Christian ministers and those who hear them: 12mo 459p— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. Stanton (Benjamin F.) Sermons of the late Rev. Benjamin I’. Stanton: 12mo 311p— New York, published by D. Fanshaw, 1848 ; deposited by Charlotte F. Stanton.
Sranron (Henry B.) Sketches of Reforms and Reformers of Great Britain and Ireland: 12mo 3953p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by H. B. Stanton.
Srepuens (Mrs. Ann 8.) The Ladies National Magazine, volume 13: 8yo large, 215p — Philadelphia, published by Charles J. Peterson, 1848; deposited by Mrs. Ann S. Stephens.
Stevens (Enos,) Rudiments of Astromy, &c.; with directions for using the diagram of the solar system so as to represent the relative portions of all the heavenly bodies every day : 16mo 36p— Boston, published by James French, 1849 ; deposited by Enos Stevens. —
Stewart (W.) New York Pictorial, and Mother’s Spelling and Reading Book; or child’s first step to knowledge : 16mo 72p — Hagerstown, published by W. Stewart, 1849; deposited by W. Stewart.
Sritte (Alfred, M. D.) Elements of General Pathology; a practical treatise on the causes, forms, symptoms and results of disease: 8vo 483p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.

<<<Page: 167>>>

211 (aq
Srorrs (Richard S., Jr.) Congregationalism: its principles and influences: a discourse delivered before the general associations of New York, at their meeting in Madison, August 1848; by the Rev. Richard S. Storrs, Jr., published by request of the association: 8vo 72p —New York. Published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Srory (William W.) A Treatise on the Law of sales of Personal Property, with illustrations from the foreign law: 8vo large, 488p — Boston, published by Little & Brown; deposited by William W. Story.
A Treatise on the Law of Contracts not under Seal. Second edition, revised and greatly enlarged: 8vo large, 900p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847 ; deposited by William W. Story.
Reports of Cases argued and determined in the Circuit court of the United States for the first Circuit. Volume 3: Svo large, 849p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847; deposited by William W. Story.
Srreet (Alfred B.) Frontenac; or the Atotarho of the Iroquois. A metrical romance: 12mo 3824p —New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Street (Robert) The Faith and Doctrines of the Church of the Eternal Son; intended as a church book for the church of the Eternal Son generally, &c. Divided into four parts. To which is added a number of select hymns, &c.: 12mo 408p — Philadelphia, 1849 ; deposited by Robert Street.
Srricktanp (W. P.) History of the American Bible Society from its organization to the present time; with an introduction by Rey. N. L. Rice, D. D. Embellished with a likeness of Hon. Elias Boudinot, LL. D.: 8vo 466p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
SuMNER (Charles,) Reports of Cases argued and determined in the Circuit court of the United States, for the first Cireuit. Second edition. Volume 1: 8vo large, 612p—— Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1848; deposited by Little & Brown.
Suppressep Facts; being nobility unveiled: by a naturalized citizen of the United States: 8vo 3838p — New York, 1843.
Swan (William D.) The Instructive Reader; or a course of reading in natural history, science and literature, designed for the use of schools: 12mo 288p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1848; deposited by William D. Swan.
The Grammar School Reader, consisting of selections in prose and poetry; with exercises in articulation; 12mo 248p— Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1848; deposited by William D, Swan.
Tacrrus — The Germania and Agricola of Tacitus, with English notes, critical and explanatory, from the best and latest authorities, the remarks of Bitticher on the style of Tacitus and a copious geograpical index ; by Charles Anthon, LL. D.: 8vo 262p—-..

<<<Page: 168>>>

New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Tarzorr (John L.) New Arithmetic. The Scholar’s Guide to the Science of Numbers ; containing the Prussian canceling system, and other important abbrev iations, adapted to the use “of common schools, academies and private students: 8vo 212p — Cincinnati, published by J. A. & U. P. James, 1848; deposited by J ohn L. Talbott.
Tate (Benjamin) The American Form Book; containing legally approved precedents for agr eements, ainbitnairenes assignments, bonds, bills of exchange, promissory notes, conveyancing, letters of attorney, receipts, partnerships, releases. transfers, alls, deeds in trust and other matters of importance; with a complete index to the whole. A new and revised edition: 8vo 261p -Richmond, Va., published by Drinker & Morris, 1847 ; deposited by Drinker & Morris.
An Analytical digested mdex of the reported cases of the court of Appeals and general court of Virginia; from Washington to second Grattan inclusive ; with a repertorium doubly and pameomatically arranged. In two volumes: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 578p— Vol. 2 , 602p— Richmond, Va., published by Drinker & Morris, 1847 ; * deposited by Drinker & “Morris.
Taytor (Gen. Zachary) Taylor and his companions ; A biography of Gen. Zachary ‘Taylor, with a full account of his military services. With twenty-seven portraits and engravings: 16mo 128p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co. ., 1848; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.
Taytor (W. C., LL. D.) Pictorial History of France and Normandy, from the earliest period to the present time ; with a full account of the revolution and the several rebellions of 1848. By W. C. Taylor, LL. D. Illustrated with engravings, by the best artists ; 8vo 512p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cow perthw ait & Co., 1848; deposited by Thomas, Cow perthw ait & Co.
Pinnock’s school series. History of France and
Normandy, from the earliest times to the revolution of 1848. _ With questions for examination, at the end of each section. Illustrated with numerous engravings. First American from the third English edition : So 44dp — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, ‘Cowperthwait & Co.; deposied by Thomas, Cowperthwait and Co.
Taytor (Bayard) Rhymes of Travel, ballads and poems. Second edition, 12mo 152p— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George P. Putnam.
Tayzor (Alfred S., F. R. S.) On Poisons in relation to medical jurisprudence and medicine ; edited with notes and additions, by R. Kgglestel d Grithth, M. D. &c.: 8vo 687p— Philadephia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Turers (M. A.) The history of the Consulate and Empire, under Napoleon, by M. A. Thiers; translated from the French by D. F. Campbell,

<<<Page: 169>>>

213 : 8vo 155p—— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Tuomas (Robert B.) No. 58. The (old) Farmers’ Almanac, calculated on a new and improved plan for the year of our Lord 1850, &e. : 12mo 48p — Boston, published by Jenks, Palmer & Co., 1849 ; deposited by Jenks, Palmer & Co.
Maine edition, Nos. 57 and 58, for 1849 and 1850; Portland, published by Sanborn & Carter.
Tuompson (D. P.) May Martin; or, the Money Diggers, a Green mountain tale: 12mo 156p — Burlington, published by Chauncey Goodrich, 1848; deposited by Chauncey Goodrich.
Tomson (John Lewis) History of the second War between the United States and Great Britain, declared in L812, and terminated in 1815; to which are added, sketches of the military operations of the United States to the present time, including the Black-Hawk war, the Seminole wars in Florida, and the war with Mexico: 8vo large, 656p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thomp-. son, 1848; deposited by Hogan & Thompson.
Tuornton (J. Quinn) Oregon and California in 1848; with an appendix, including recent and authentic information on the subject of the gold mines of California, and other valuable matter of interest to the emigrant, &c.; with illustrations and a map. Two volumes: 8vo Vol. 1, 3893p; Vol. 2, 379p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Tuorre, (T. B.) Our Army at Monterey; being a correct account of the proceedings and events which occurred to the ‘ army of occupation,” under the command of Major General Taylor, from the time of leaving Matamoros to the surrender of Monterey ; with a description of the three days battle and the storming of Monterey, the ceremonies attending the surrender; together with the particulars of the capitulation; illustrated by a view of the city, and a map drawn by Lieutenant Benjamin, United States Army: 12mo 204p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849 ; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Our Army on the Rio Grande ; being a short account of the important events transpiring from the time of the removal of the ‘army of occupation”? from Corpus Christi, to the surrender of Matamoros; with descriptions of the battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma, the bombardment of Fort Brown and the ceremonies of the surrender of Matamoros, with descriptions of the city, &c., &c.; illustrated with twenty-six fengravings: I6mo 196p— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1846 ; deposited by Carey & Hart.
TuHrau (Walter,) A treatise upon the laws relating to the titles to lands which have been sold for the non-payment of taxes; by Walter Thrall: pamphlet, 8vo 120p— Columbus, Ohio, William B. Thrall, printer, 1847 ; deposited by Walter Thrall.
Tuomas Tuume (or Charles 8. Stratton,) Life and Travels of Thomas Thumb, in the United States, England, France and Belgium ;

<<<Page: 170>>>

i ea 21 ae
with illustrations of him in his different costumes: 16mo 144p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Ticknor (Almon) The Columbian Calculator ; bemg a practical and concise system of decimal Arithmetic. Third edition, revised and corrected: 12mo 264p — Pottsville, published by Benjamin Bannan, 1848; deposited by Almon 'Ticknor.
The Youth’s Columbian Calculator ; stereotype edition : 12mo 96p — Pottsville, published by Benjamin Bannan, 1848 : deposited by Almon Ticknor.
Columbian Spelling Book: Svo 1453p — Pottsville, published by Benjamin Bannan, 1849; deposited by Benjamin Bannan.
Trastom---Caloric ; Origin, matter, and law of the Universe; by Trastom : 8vo 65p — New Orleans, printed by T. Rea, 1847; deposited by P. E. Trastom.
Truman (D.) Bible essay, or Six Reasons why Infidels should be Christians; with an introductory address: 16mo 122p— Mount Pleasant, Ohio, published by Enoch Harris, 1847; deposited by D. Truman.
Tucker (T. T.) A new treatise on the theory and practice of book-keeping by single and double entry: 8vo 47p — Baltimore, published P by Sherwood & Co., 1849; deposited by T. 'T. Tucker.
Tuckerman (Henry T.) Characteristics of Literature, illustrated by the genius of distinguished men: 12mo 269p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Turnputt (Rev. Robert) The genius of Italy ; being sketches of Italian life, literature and religion: 12mo 3383p — New York, published by George P. Putnam; deposited by R. ‘Turnbull.
Tururiii (Mrs. L. C.) The Nursery book, for young mothers: 16mo 205p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.
Tyier (Samuel) Robert Burns, as a poet, and as a man: 12mo 209p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Upnam (Thomas C.) Life and Religious opinions and experience of Madame De la Mothe Guyon: together with some account of the personal history and religious opinions of Fenelon, Archbishop of Cambray. In two volumes: 12mo Vol. 1, 431p; Vol. 2, 3880p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Thomas C. Upham.
Urcuttu (D. José de) Gramatica Inglesa, reducida 4 vemte y dos lecciones. Edicion primesa Americana de la septima de Paris; aumentada y revista por Fayette Robinson: 12mo 262p— Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1848; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co.
A Grammar of the Spanish Language based upon the system of D. José de Urcullu; also with reference to the publi

<<<Page: 171>>>

cations of the Academy of Spain, the works of Fernandez and José, and the compendium of Don Augustin Monoz Alvarez, of the College of Seville ; according to the seventh Paris edition of Ureullu’s works; by Fayette Robinson: 8vo 286p—— Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 184%; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co.
Varentine (Dr. W.) A Budget of witand humour; or, morsels of mirth for the melancholy ;_ a certain cure for the blues, and all other serious complaints; comprising comic lectures on heads, faces, noses, mouths, animal magnetism, &c. Illustrated by twelve portraits of Dr. Valentine in his most celebrated characters’:
12mo 192p— Philadelphia, published by C. Marshall, 1849 ; deposited by C. Marshall.
Varazquez (M.) and Simonne (T.) Ollendorff’s new method of learnng to read, write and speak the Spanish language ; with an appendix, containing a brief but comprehensive recapitulation of the rules, as well as of all the verbs, both regular and irregular ; so as to render their use easy and familiar to the most ordinary capacity. Together with practical rules for the Spanish pronunciation and models of social and commercial correspondence. The whole designed for young learners, &c., by M. Valazquez and T. Simonné: 8vo ‘558p — New ¥ ork, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1848; deposited by D. Appleton & Co.
A key to the exercises in Ollendorff’s new method of learning to read, write and speak the Spanish language; arranged on a new plan, and particularly intended for the use of persons who wish to be their own teachers : 8vo 174p—— New York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1848 ; sposited by D. Appleton & Co.
Vexpeau (Alf. A. L. M.) New Elements of Operative Surgery ; carefully revised, entirely remodelled, and augmented with a treatise on minor surgery; illustrated by over ae hundred engravings, im corporated with the text; accompanied with an atlas i in quarto, of twenty-two plates, repr esenting the principal operative processes, surgical instruments, &c. First American, from the last Paris, edition. ‘Translated by P. S. Townsend, M. D., augasennad by the addition of several hundred pages of entirely new matter, comprising all the latest improvements and discoveries in surgery, in America and Europe, up to the present time; under the supervision of, and with notes and observations by Valentine Mott, M. D., in three volumes, withatlas in 4to: 8vo vol, 1,851p; vol. 2, 992p; vol. 3, 1163p— New York, published by Samuel S. & William Wood, 1847 ; deposited by Samuel S. & William Wood.
Vernake (Henry, LL. D.) Encyclopedia Americana, supplementary volume, a popular dictionary of arts, sicence, literature, history, polities and pean y being Vol. 14: Sxi0 663p --Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanc shard; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Vireww, The Eclogues and Georgics of Virgil, with English notes, critical and explanatory, and a metrical index, by Charles Anthon,

<<<Page: 172>>>

bay 216
LL. D.: 8vo 452p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Visir to the Menagerie by a Father and his Children: 16mo 160p— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston,1849; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Voepes (William) An Elementary Treatise on Mensuration and Practical Geometry ; together with numerous problems of practical importance in mechanics: 12mo 299p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1846 ; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle.
Key to an Bilementary Treatise on Mensuration: 12mo 112p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. &. J. Biddle, 1847 ; deposited by Wilham Vogdes.
Waxus (S. T.) Glimpses of Spain; or, notes of an unfinished tour in 1847 ¢ 12mo 384p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
War (The) and its Warriors; containing a complete history of all the ope= rations of the American armies in Mexico; with biographical sketches and anecdotes of the most distinguished officers in the regular army and the volunteer force : 12mo 319p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1848; deposited by Hogan & ‘Thompson.
WARREN oan C., M. D.) Etherization, with surgical remarks: 12mo 100p | — Becton! published by Wilham D. Ticknor & Co., 1848; deposited by William D. Ticknor & Co.
Wasuineton (George) Letters on Agriculture from his Excellency George Washington, President of the United States, to Arthur Young, Esq., F. R.S., and Sir John Sinclair, Bart, M. P.; with statis« tical tables and remarks by Thomas ‘Jefferson, Richard Peters and other gentlemen, on the economy and management of farms in the United States; edited by Franklin Knight: 4to 198p — Washington, published by the editor, 1847; deposited by Franklin Knight.
Washington and the Generals of the American Revolution; complete in two volumes ; with sixteen portraits on steel, from original pictures: 8vo, Vol. 1, 324p; Vol. 2, 3386p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Waterman (Thomas W.) A Treatise on the civil jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace: to which are added; outlines of the powers and duties of county and town officers in the State of New York; adapted to the statutes and the code of procedure, containing directions and practical forms for every civil case which can arise under the statutes and the code: Svo large, 692p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1849 ; deposited by amiss! Gould & Banks.
Waters (George Van) The Poetical Geography, designed to accompany outline maps or school atlases; to which are added, the rules of arithmetic in rhyme: Svo large, 72p — Cincinnati, published by George Van Waters, 1849; deposited by George Van Waters.

<<<Page: 173>>>

217 pay
Warts (Frederick) and Srercrant (Henry J.) Reports of Cases adjudged
in the Supreme courts of Pennsylvania, volume 9 ; containing the cases decided in part of May term 1845; with a general index of the principal matters contained in the nine volumes of Watts & Sergeant’s Reports, and a table of all the cases in the same: Svo large, 504p— Philadelphia, published by James Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1846; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.
Warrs (Isaac, D. D.,) Improvement of the Mind ; school edition. With
Denman’s Questions, 16mo 31p— New York, published by ae S. Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by A. S. Barnes.
Weaver (Dr. J.) A System of practical Elocution and rhetorical ges~
ture, comprising all the elements of vocal delivery, both as a sicence and as an art; so arranged and exemplified as to make it easy of acquisition for private learners without a teacher, ag well as for the use of common schools, academies, seminaries, &ce. Ilustrated by one hundred and twenty-five engravings and figures, as well as by numerous tables and examples: 8vo 3871p — Philadelphia, Barrett & Jones, 1846; deposited by Dr. J. Weaver. .
Wess (J. R.) First Reader. John’s First Book; being a new method of
teaching children to read, founded on nature and reason; third stereotype edition, revised: 12mo 72p—— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Second Reader. The Pupil’s Guide, on a new plan, combining spelling and reading, and containing an extensive variety of mental exercises; with an appendix of orthography (as it should be,) stereotype edition: 12mo 160p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
The Virginia Reader, No. 1, or child’s first book. 4th stereotype edition revised: 12mo 72p— Richmond, published by
Harrold & Murray, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Wess (J. Watson) Altowan; or, incidents of life and adventure im the
Rocky mountains, by anamateur traveler ; two volumes. Edited by J. Watson Webb: 12mo, Vol. 1, 255p; Vol. 2, 240p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Wesser (Charles W.) The Gold Mines of the Gila; a sequel to Old Hicks
the Guide. Complete in two volumes: 12mo, Vol. 1, 154p ; Vol. 2, 263p — New York, published by Dewitt & Davenport, 1849 ; deposited by Dewitt & Davenport.
Old Hicks the Guide; or, adventures in search of a gold mine in the Camanche country: 12mo 356p—— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Wesster (Thomas, F. G. 8.) An Encyclopedia of Domestic Economy ;
comprising such subjects as are most immediately connected with housekeeping; as the construction of domestic edifices, with modes of warming, ventilating and lighting them; a description of the various articles of furniture; a general account

<<<Page: 174>>>

r1] 218
of the animal and vegetable substances used as food, and the methods of preserving and preparing them by cooking, &c., &c. By Thomas Webster. Assisted by the late Mrs. Parkes. From the last London edition; with notes and improvements, by D. Meredith Reese, A. M., M. D. Illustrated by nearly one-thousand engravings: 8vo large, 1238p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1845; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
WessTER (Daniel) The diplomatic and official papers of Daniel Webster, while Secretary of State: Svo 392p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Wesster (E.) Key to the Phonographic Instructor; 16mo 24p — Philadelphia, published by E. Webster, 1849; deposited by EK. Webster.
Wessrer (Noah, LL. D.) An American Dictionary of the English language; containing the whole vocabulary of the first edition in two volumes quarto; the entire corrections and improvements of the second edition in two volumes royal 8vo; to which is prefixed an introductory dissertation on the origin, history and connection of the languages of western Asia and Europe, with an explanation of the principles on which languages are formed. proRevised and enlarged, by Chauncey A. Goodrich. With nouncing vocabularies of scripture, classical, and geographical names: 4to 1367p — Springfield, Mass., published by George & Charles Merriam, 1848; deposited by George & Char les Merriam.
Weissacu (Julius) Principles of the mechanics of machinery and engineering. First American edition; edited by Walter R. Johnson, A. M. Two volumes; illustr ated with engravings on wood: vol. 1, theoretical mechanics ; vol. 2, applied unechanics: 8vo large, vol. 1, 534 illustrations: 486p; vol. 2, 351 illustrations, 8368p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Wextp (Rey. H. Hastings) The Women of the Scriptures ; edited by H. H. Weld: 8vo large, 240p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1818; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston.
Wuarron (Francis) Prevedenitd of indictments and pleas, adapted to the use both of the courts of the United States, and those of all the several States; together with notes on criminal pleading and practice, embracing the English and American authorities generally: 8vo large, 694p — Philadelphia, published by sae Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1849; deposited by James Kay, Jr. Brother.
State trials of the United States during the administrations of Washington and Adams; with references, historical and professional, and prelimimary notes on the politics of the times: 8vo large, 727p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey & Hart.
’ A treatise on the criminal law of the United States; comprising a digest of the penal statutes of the general govern

<<<Page: 175>>>

ment, and of Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia; with the decisions on cases arising upon those statutes, together with the English and American authorities upon criminal law in general : Svo large, 68Sp — Philadelphia, published by James, Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1846; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.
Wueecer (Henry G.) History of Congress, biographical and political ; vol. 1, containing memoirs of ‘members of Congress of the United Sestes, dan m from authentic sources; embracing the prominent events of their lives and spies connection with the politicalghistory of the times; vol. 2, comprising a history of internal improvements, rivers, (harbors, &c.,) from the foundation of the government to the present time ; embracing also historical notices or Sanous political events, &c.: 8vo large, vol. 1, 568p ; vol. 2, 563p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Henry G. Wheeler.
Wuire (Frederick Thomas) and Tupor (Owen Davies) A selection of leading cases in Equity with Notes, with additional annotations containing references to American cases, by John Jones, Clark Hare and Horace Binney Wallace: 8vo large, 649p — Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, 1849 ; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson.
Wuittocx (Rev. George Clinton, A. M.) Elements of Geometry theoretical and practical; containing a full explanation of the construction and use of tables, and’ a new systern of surveying : Svo 324p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1848 ; deposited by George Clinton Whitlock.
Wuyreneap (Rev. Robert, M. A.) A Key to the Prayer Book of the Protestant Episcopal Church; designed to illustrate its meaning, use and scriptural character. Revised and adapted to the Ameri can prayer book, by Rev. James H. Fowles: 12mo 358p— Philadelphia, published by Edward Gaskill, 1849 ; deposited by Edward Gaskill.
Wixorr (Henry) Napoleon Louis Bonaparte, First President of France; biographical and personal sketches, including a visit to the Prince at the Castle of Ham: 12mo 155p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by George P. Putnam.
Wirox (P. B.) A Digest of the Ohio Reports, Volumes 13, 14, 15 and 16; being a supplement to the digest of the previous twelve volumes, Containing together all the cases ever reported at law and in equity in the Supreme court of the State of Ohio, in bank: 8vo large, 141p — Columbus, published by I. N. Whiting & Huntingdon, 1848 ; deposited by I. N. Whiting.
Practical forms in actions, personal and real, and in chan~ cery, now in common use in the State of Ohio; with notes: second edition: S8vo large — Columbus, published by Isaac N. Whiting, 1848; deposited by Issac N. Whiting. Wiuxes (Charles, U. S. N. Voyage round the world, embracing the principal events of the narrative of the United States éxploring ex

<<<Page: 176>>>

pedition ; illustrated with one hundred and seventy-eight engravings on wood ; 8vo 668p — Philadelphia, published by George W. Gorton, 1849; deposited by Charles Wilkes.
Wirrarp (Emma) English Chronographer; or Chronology of Great Britain:
4to — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by Emma Willard.
Historic guide. Guide to the Temple of Time, and universal history; for schools: Syvo 110p— New York, published by A.S. Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by Emma Willard.
History of the United States or Republic of America; continued to the close of the Mexican war: S8vo 496p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.
Last leaves of American history, comprising the histories of the Mexican war and California: 12mo 230p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1849; deposited by G. P. Put-
nam.
Abridged history of the United States, or Republic of America; new and enlarged: edition: 12mo 405p— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by Emma Willard.
Wiuam, the Cottager; by the author of Ellen Herbert: 12mo 168p —
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Witiams (Charles J. B., M. D., F. R.S.) Principles of Medicine: com-
Wiis (N.
prising general pathology and therapeutics, and a brief general view of etiology, nosology, semeiology, diagnosis, prognosis, and hygienics. Edited with additions by Meredith Clymer, M. D. Third American from the second and enlarged London edition: 8vo 440p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
P.) Poems of early and after years; illustrated by E. Leutze : Svo large, 410p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart: 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Rural Letters and other records of Thought at leisure, written in the intervals of more hurried literary labor; the volume contains ‘‘Letters from under a Bridge,’’ ‘‘ Open air Musings in the City,’’ Invalid rambles in Germany, Letters from Watering Places, &c.: 12mo 5380p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Wirson (Erasmus, M. D.) A system of human Anatomy, general and spe-
cial. Fourth American from the last London edition, edited by Paul B. Goddard, A. M., M. D. With two hundred and fiftyone illustrations by Gilbert: 8vo 576p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1548; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.
Witson (Marcius) American History; comprising historical sketches of the
the Indian tribes, a description of American antiquities, with an enquiry into their origin and the origin of the Indian tribes’; the history of the United States, &c., &c., history of the pres=

<<<Page: 177>>>

221 fad
ent British Provinces, history of Mexico and history of Texas, brought down to the time of its admission into the American Union: 12mo 672p — Cincinnati, published by Wilham H. Moore & Co., New York, 1847; deposite «l by Marcius Wilson.
Witson (Marcius) Juvenile American History for Primary Schools: 16mo 160p — New York, published by Mark H. Newman & Co., 1947 ; deposited by M. Wilson.
Wincuester (George W.) Book-keeping, or, teacher’s guide ; containing the principles of double entry, &c., &c., &c.: 4to I2p— Hartford, published by J. H. Mather & Co. ., L848 ; deposited by George W. Winchester.
Journal to Winchester’s new method of teaching
Book-keeping by single entry; being an accompaniment to the teachers euide : 4to 30p — Hartford, published by J. H. Mather & Co., 1846; deposited by George W. Winchester.
Same for Book-keeping by Double Entry: 4to 48p — same publishers, 1848 ; deposited by G. W. Winchester.
Ledger to Winchester’s new method of teaching Book-keeping by single entry, an accompaniment to the teacher’s guide: 4to 32p — Hartford, published by J. H. Mather & Co., 1846; deposited by George W. Winchester.
Same for Book-keeping by double entry : 4to 47p — Hartford, published by J. H. Mather & Co., 1848 ; deposited by George W. Winchester.
Theoretical and Practical Penmanship, in four books ; accompanied by the muscular disciplinarian, penman’s chart and inkstand model for pen holding: 28p each — Hartford, published by J. H. Mather & Co., 1844; deposited by George W. Winchaster.
Drawing Series, in four books ; being an accompaniment to his drawing and writing cards and exercises in perspective. Book 1: S8vo 8382p — Hartford, published by Henry S. Parsons & Co., 1548; deposited by George W. Winchester.
Wryter (T.) A Guide to Floriculture ; containing instructions to the young florist for the management of the most popular flowers of the day; illustrated w ith colored plates: 12mo 226p — Cincinnati, published by Derby, Bradley & Co. . 1847; deposited by T. Winter.
Wise (Lieutenant, U.S. A.) Los Gringos ; or the inside view of Mexico and California, with wanderings in Peru, Chili and Polynesia: Svo 453p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner.
Worcester (Joseph E.) A universal and cr‘tical Dictionary of the English language: to which are added Walker’s key to the pronunciation of Classical and Scripture proper names, much enlarged and improved, and a pronouncing voc abulary of modern eeographical names: 8vo large, 656p — Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1816 : deposited by J. E. Worcester.

<<<Page: 178>>>

Worcester (Joseph E.) A comprehensive, pronouncing and explanatory Dictionary of the English language; with vocabularies of classical, scripture and modern geographical names; revised, enlarged, and made substantially an abridgmeut of the author’s Universal and Critical Dictionary: 12mo 491p— Boston, published by Jenks & Palmer, 1848; deposited by J. E. Worcester.
Woopsury (Charles L.) and Mrvor (George) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Circuit court of the United States for the first circuit. Volume 2: 8vo large, 564p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849; deposited by Little & Brown.
Woop (George B.) A treatise on the practice of medicine. In two volumes ; Svo large, vol 1, 798p; vol. 2, 840p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1847; deposited by George B. Wood.
Woop (William Maxwell, M. D.,) Wandering sketches of people and things in South America, Polynesia, California, and other places visited during a cruise on board the United States ships Levant, Portsmouth and Savannah: 12mo 3886p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Wyarr (Thomas A. M.) History of the kings of France; containing the principal incidents in their lives, from the foundation of the monarchy to Louis Phillippe, with a concise biography of each ; illustrated by seventy-two portraits of the Sovereigns of France: 12mo ae — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1846 ; deposited by Carey & Hart.
Memoirs of the Generals, Commodores, and other commanders, who distinguished themselves in the American army and navy during the wars of the revolution and 1812; and who were presented with medals by Congress, for their gallant services: 8vo large, 3815p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848; deposited by Carey & Hart.
The Sacred Tableaux ; or, remarkable incidents in the Old and New Testament, illustrated by forty steel engravings, from the ancient masters; the descriptions by distinguished American writers; edited by Thomas Wyatt, A. M: 12mo 314p — Boston, published by John M. Whittemore, 1848; deposited by John M. Whittemore.
Xenopnon — The Anabasis of Xenophon, with English notes, critical and explanatory, a map arranged according to the best authorities, and a plan of the battle of Cunaxa; by Charles Anhton, LL. D.: Svo 632p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Memorabilia of Socrates, with English notes, critical and explanatory, the Prolegomena of Kiihner, Wigger’s life of Socrates, &c., by Charles Anthon, LL. D.: Svo 458p—New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Yovarr (William) The Dog; with illustrations, edited with additions by E. J. Lewis, M. D.: 8vo large, 403p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard.

<<<Page: 179>>>

Youne (Augustus) Unity of purpose, or rational analysis; being a treatise designed to disclose physical truths, and to detect and expose popular errors: 8vo 292p— Boston, published by S. N. Dickinson & Co., 1846; deposited by Augustus Young.
ZscuoxKke (Heinrich) The Galley Slave, translated from the German by the late J.T. S. Sullivan, from the forty-fifth German edition : Svo 230p — Philadelphia, published by H. N. Joy & Co., 1849 ; deposited by H. N. Joy & Co.
Zumer (C. G.) A School Grammar of the Latin Language. Translated and adapted to the use of the High School of Edinburgh, by Leonhard Schmitz ; enlarged by Charles Anthon, LL. D.: Svo 247p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Axpy (Mrs.) See: Strakosch.
Arkin (J. B.) The Juvenile Minstrel, a new system of musical Notation; with a choice collection of moral and sacred songs, designed -for ju= venile singing schools, public schools, juvenile concerts, select classes, and family circles, by J. B. Aikin: 12mo long, 208p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1847; deposited by T. K. & P. G. Collins.
AnpreEws (John C.) Jennie, with her bonnie blue e’e; written and composed by John C, Andrews: 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son.
Bau (Eli) The Manual of the sacred Choir: a selection of tunes and hymns, from the most approved authors, adapted to public worship, to revivals, to prayer meetings and to family worship: by Eli Ball: 16mo 128p — Richmond, published by Harrold & Murray, 1849: deposited by Eli Ball.
Batmer (Charles) A Heart that’s kind and true ; ballad written by Henry
F. Watson; music by Charles Balmer: 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son.
Barnett (James C.) Princess Alice waltz, composed and arranged for the piano forte, by James C. Barnett: 4to 4p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son.
Bere (Albert W.) Lake George Waltz, composed for the piano forte by Albert W. Berg: 4to 5p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son.
Borra (Signor J.) Memphis Waltz, with an accompaniment for flute or violin, composed by Signor J. Borra: 4to 5p --Cincinnati, pub-
lished by Peters & Field, 1846; deposited by Peters & Field.

<<<Page: 180>>>

Brapzury (W. B.) See Hastings (Thomas.)
Butiarp (O. B.) The Sabbath School Vocalist: a collection of hymns nana music, selected and arranged for general use in Sabbath schools and families, by O. B. Bullard: 12mo long, 48p --Boston, published by Benjamin Perkins & Co., 1848: deposited by O. 8. Bullard.
CairorNtia as it is; comic song, written by Thaddeus W. Meighan, sung by Pete Morris : Ato 5 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son.
Carpenter (J. E., Esq.) See: Maeder.
CuHapwick (Héhry) Hudson Waltz, composed and arranged for the piano forte by Henry Chadw ick: Ato 4p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1849; deposited by Jaques & Brother.
See: Emma Snow ; Lover (Samuel) ; Dinah Crow ; Oh!
would I were a girl again.
Cuanpier (E. S.) See: Uncle Ned.
Curisty (E. P.) See: Susan Rayne.
Concone:(J.) The Pensive Thought, or Last Adieu, words and arrangement by Henri, composed by J. Concone: 4to 6p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1549; deposited by Jaques & Brother.
Coppock (W. R.) The Vine Cot Waltzes, a la cinq Temps, composed by W. R. Coppock : 4to 7p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son.
Cosry (F. Esq.) See: I may not meet them.
Crossy (F.) See: De Meyer.
Cummine (William) See : Kneass.
Cunnineron (W. P.) [have loved but the dream is now over ; a ballad, composed by W. P. Cunnineton, 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Willig, Jr.
Currer (Captain G. w. ) See: E. Pluribus Unum.
Drems (J. M.) Une Petite Récréation Musicale, composée a quatre mains pour le piano par J. M. Deems; 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by George Wilhig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr.
De Meyer — Twilight is Closing ; ballad; words by F. Crosby, melody from De Meyer’s celebrated “ Chant Bohemienne’’: arranged by W. C. Peters; 4to 7p — New York, published by Wilham Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son.
Dretman (Professor H.) Gr aia Inauguration March; performed on the occasion of the imauguration of General Taylor, as President of the United States; composed and arranged for the piano forte, by Professor H. Dielman: 4to 5p—B saltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited | ny G. Willig, iy
Dinau Crow; Ethiopean Melody, arranged for the ‘Spanish Guitar by Henry Chadwick ; 4to 2n — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son.
Dopworrn (Allen) The Cally Quadrilles, by Allen Dodworth: 4to 7p—

<<<Page: 181>>>

New York, published by Wm. Hall Son, 1849; deposited by Wilham Hall & Son.
Dopwortu (Harvey B.) Diligent Hose Companys Quick Step, composed and arranged by Harvey B. Dodworth, 4to 5p --New York, published ‘by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son 1849.
Domestic and Social Harp (The) A collection of tunes and hymns intended for family sa chapel use; 12mo long, L68p --Hartford, published by D. R. Woodford & Co., 184s ; deposited by iO: P. Woodford, 1848.
Drennon Polka Quadrilles (The) arranged for the piano forte by W. C. Peters: 4to 7p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 21 September 1549.
Emma Snow, the celebrated Ethiopian song, arranged for the Spanish Guitar, by Henry Chadwick: 4dto 2p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
E Puuritsus Unum, An American National song for two voices, with an accompaniment for the guitar; words by Captain G. W. Cutler, arranged by Mrs. Edward H. Pendleton: 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849; deposited by W. C. Peters, 5S December 1849.
An American National song, written by Captain G. W. Cutter, the music adapted and arranged for the Baltimore Olio, by Mrs. Edward H. Pendleton, arranged as a quartette for four voices: 4to 5p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1549; deposited by W. C. Peters, 8 December 1849.
An American National song, written by Captain G. W. Cutter; the music adapted and arranged for the Baltimore Olio by Mrs. Edward H. Pendleton ; Ato 5p --Baltimore, Be lished by W. C. Peters, 1849; deposited by W. C. Peters, 8 December 1849.
Ernst (Louis) North Carolina Polka, composed by Louis Ernst: 4to 5p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849: deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Foster (Stephen C.) Summer Longings; song, words from the Home Journal; composed by Stephen C. Foster : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published bie Wilham C. Peters, 1849; deposited by William C. Peters, 22 November 1849.
“'There’s a good Time Coming;” song, lines from the
London Daily News; composed by S. ‘C. Foster: 4to Dp — Cincinnati, published by Peters & Field; deposited by William C. Peters.
Fow er (J. A.) Sounds from the Valley; a brilliant waltz, with introduction, composed for the piano: forte, by J. A. Fowler: 4to 7p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son 14 December 1849.
ti avn (W. D., Esq.) See: There’s something on my lips, Love!
Germon (F. C.) See: Howard (Frank.)
Mis. --15.

<<<Page: 182>>>

fey 226
GratTan (H. P.) See: Loder George.
Groge (Charles) Romanesca Polka, composed by Charles Grobe : 4to 2p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Salut a New York Variations brilliantes, sur le théme favori, The ‘‘ Evergreen Waltz,’’? composées pour fe piano par Charles Grobe: 4to 11p--Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr. ; 1849; deposited by George Willig, 4 April 1849.
Veni, Vidi, Vici. The Battle of Buena Vista, a descriptive fantasie for the piano, composed by Charles Grobe: 4to 14p--Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
See: Nauenburg (G.)
Nees (Otto (E:)
GueERNsEY (Wellington) See : Oh! would I were a Girl again.
Harry anp Lucy. Coralie, a new Ethiopian song, written and composed by Harry and Lucy, arranged for Dumbolton’s Ethiopian serenaders, by Frank Howard: 4to 5p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December, 1849.
Hartree (Levine G.) Guida Waltz, composed by Levine G. Hartge: 4to 2p --Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Wilhg, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Priscilla Polka, composed by Levine G. Hartge: 4to 2p --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Hastines (Thomas) and Brappury (William B.) The New York Choralist: a new and copious collection of psalm and hymn tunes, adapted to all the various metres in general use, with a large variety of anthems and set pieces: 8vo long, 352p— New York, published by Mark H. Newman & Co., 1847; deposited by Thomas Hastings and William B. Bradbury, 1847.
Heness (Theophilus) Agamia Waltz, composed by Theophilus Heness : Ato 2p--Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Hess (Charles) The Jenny Gray Polka, composed by Charles Hess: 4to 2p --New York, published by Wilham Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
See Jeannette and Jeannot, and Lover (Samuel.)
Hewitt (J. H.) “My Heart’s with Thee ’’: a ballad written and composed by J. H. Hewitt: 4to 11p --Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
See : Oh! have I not been true to Thee.
Hitt (U. C.) The Sister’s Call, composed by U. C. Hill, arranged _ for the Spanish guitar, by L. Tripp: 4to 2p--New York, pllblished by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by Willam Hall &. Son, 14 December 1849.

<<<Page: 183>>>

PP a  Hoxuanp (Albert) Captain Shutt’s Quick step, as performed by the Inde-
pendent Blues’ band — composed and arranged by Albert Holland: 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849: deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
President Taylor’s grand Inauguration March, composed by Albert Holland: 4to Ap --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Willig, Jr. .. 4 April 1849. Howarp (Frank) The Female Slave’s Lament ; ends by F. C. Germon, music by Frank Howard: 4to 7p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849: deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
See: Harry and Lucy.
I May nor meet Thee, song, written by F. Cosby, Esq., arranged by W. C. Peters: 4to 5p--Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
1 (W. B.) See: Woodbury.
JEANNETTE id Jeannot, (Conscripts departure,) arranged for the Spanish Guitar, by Charles Hess: 4to 2p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849: deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
J (M.'J.,) See: ‘See that little flower so gay.”
Jounson (A, N.) The Choir Chorus book; a collection of choruses from’ the works of Handel, Haydn, Mozart, Cherubini, Mendelssohn, Sphor, Romberg, Neukomm, Rossini and other distinguished composers ; compiled, adapted to English words, and arranged with particular reference to choir practice, and for the use of musical societies: Svo long, 284p --Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., and George P. Reed, 1848; deposited by A. N. Johnson 1848.
Jounson (J. C.) Juvenile Oratorios; a collection of songs designed for floral and other concerts, juy emle classes, schools, &e. ; “the festival of the Rose; the Indian Summer; the Children of Jerusalem; by James C, Johnson: 12mo long, 176p --Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1849; “deposited by J. C. Johnson, 4 May 1849.
Jones (L. J.) The Southern Minstrel; a collection of psalm and hymn tunes, odes and anthems, in three parts, selected from eminent authors, together with a number of new tunes never before published, suited to nearly every metre, and well adapted to churches of every denomination, singing schools and private societies, with plain rules for learners, ‘by ‘L. J. Jones: S8vo long, 280p --Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849; deposited by C. Sherman, 10 November 1849.
Kneass (Nelson) Old Aunty Brown, as sung by Mrs, C. Howard; poetry by the ‘‘ Pale Student,’’ altered from a Melody by Nelson Kneass, arranged for the Baltimore Olio, by William Cumming, panes} Ato ‘Bp --Cincinnati, published by Peters & Field,
849; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 December 1849.
‘Old Aunty Brown;” poetry by the ‘ Pale Student,”’ altered

<<<Page: 184>>>

: 4to 5p --Cincinnati, published by Peters & Field, 1849; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 December 1849.
Leacu (Stephen) Let all Obey, the celebrated encore song in Balfe’s opera, The Enchantress. Composed and arranged with piano forte accompaniments, by Stephen Leach: 4to 5p—— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Lenscuow (C.) Betty Polka: composed for the piano forte by C. Lenschow : dto 5p --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Lover (George) The Bride; words by H. P. Grattan, music by George Loder: 4to 5p— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
LonereLLow (Henry W.) See: Sanford (Lucy A.)
Lover (Samuel) The Low Backed Car, written and composed by Samuel Lover, arranged for the Spanish Guitar by Henry Chadwick : dto 2p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Oh! watch you well by Daylight, composed by Samuel Lover, arranged for the Spanish Guitar by Charles Hess : 4to 3p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. Maper (James G.) The Maiden’s Dream, ballad, written by J. E. Carpenter, Esq., music composed by James G. Mader: 4to 7p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by Wilham Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Mine Own, ballad, written by Mrs. Charles Kean, composed by James G. Meder: 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by Wiliam Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Were I but his own Wife, ballad, words from the ‘Dublin Nation,”’ music composed by James G. Mader : 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Martin (J.) The Old Gray Church; words by Alfred Tennyson, composed by J. Martin: 4to 5p --published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. :
Mason (William) Fireside Harmony ; a new collection of glees and part songs, arranged for soprano, alto, tenor, and bass voices: Svo long, 128p--Boston, published by Tappan, Whittemore & Mason, 1848; deposited by Tappan, Whittemore & Mason, 1548. °
Mason (Lowell) and Wess (George James) The Song Book of the schoolroom, consisting of a great variety of songs, hymns, and scriptural selections, with appropriate music, arranged to be sung in one, two, or three parts ; containing also the elementary princi

<<<Page: 185>>>

229 [ry
ples of vocal music, prepared with reference to the inductive or Pestalozzian method of teaching ; designed as a complete music manual for common or grammar schools, by Lowell Mason and George James Webb: 12mo long, + 224) --Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1847; deposited by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1847.
The Primary School Song Book, in two parts; the first part consisting of songs suitable for primary or juvenile singing schools, and the second part consisting of an explanation of the inductive or Pestalozzian method of teaching music in such schools: 12mo long, 96p — Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1847 « deposited by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1847.
Mason (Lowell) The National Psaimist; a collection of the most popular and useful psalm and hymn tunes; together with a great variety of new tunes, anthems, sentences and chants: 8vo long, 3852p-Boston, published by Tappan, Whittemore & Mason, 1848; deposited by Tappan, Whittemore & Mason, 1848.
MatHuEews enn M.) Bertie Waltz, composed by John M. Matthews: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1848 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Edenton Quick Step, composed by John M. Matthews : Ato 2p --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Reflection Waltz, composed by J. M. Mathews: 4to 2p ---
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Meienam (Thaddeus W.) See: California as it is.
Minnick (G. W.) Washington Literary Association’s quick step, as performed at their third annual entertamment by the Independent Greys’ band; composed and arranged by G. W. Minnick: 4to 2p-Baltimore; published by G. Wilhg, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Mu ier (Julius E.) Siren s Waltz, composed by Julius E. Miiller, 4to 2p --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by G. Willig, Jr. ., 4 April 1849.
Nax (Joseph) Emilie Waltz, composed by Joseph Nax: 4to 2p --Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1549; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
The Frederic ksburg Serenading Waltz, composed by Joseph Nax: 4to 2p --Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Navensure (G.) Love me —not with Fancy ; ; words from the Literary World, adapted toa melody by G. Nauenburg, arranged for the piano by Charles Grobe: 4to 5p --Baltimore, publishe dl by George Willig, Jr., 18495 deposited by George W ilhe, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Ox! have I not been true to Thee, written and adapted to a beautiful melody by John H. Fleas Ato 5p --Baltimore, published by

<<<Page: 186>>>

cia 230
George Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
‘Ou Susanna’’; a popular Ethiopan song, arranged for the guitar by F. Weiland: 4to 2p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849; deposited by Lee & Walker, 6 August 1849.
Ou! Would I were a girl again, ballad, composed by Wellington Guernsey, arranged for the Spanish guitar by Henry Chadwick : 4to 2p-New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Orro (F.) I can’t make up my Mind; words from Hood’s Magazine, adapted to melody by F. Otto, and arranged for the piano, by Charles Grobe: 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 : deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
‘“‘Sunset on the Sea;’’ the poetry by Charles P. Shiras, adapted to a melody by F. Otto, arranged for the piano, by Charles Grobe: 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 : deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Penpteton (Mrs. Edward H.) See: E Pluribus Unum.
Perers (W. C.) The Matamoros grand march, arranged and partly composed for the piano forte, by W. C. Peters --Cincinnati, published by Peters & Field; deposited by W. C. Peters.
See: De Meyer; See: There’s' something on my lip, love; See: I may not meet thee; See: Drennon polka quadrilles.
Poutton (George R.) Buena Vista polka, by George R. Poulton: 4to 2p-New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited. by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849,
Roor (George F.) and Sweerser (Joseph E.) A collection of church Music: comprising many of the most popular and useful tunes in com= mon use, together with a great variety of new and original psalm and hymn tunes, sentences, motets, anthems, chants, &c., designed for the use of choirs, congregations, smging schools, and societies: 8vo long, 8348p --New York, published by John. Wiley, 1849; deposited by John Wiley, 25 August 1849.
Sanrorp (Lucy A.) Stars of the Summer night, serenade; from the Spanish Student; written by H. W. Longfellow, composed by Lucey A. Sanford: 4to 3p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Saroni (Herman S.) I wandered in the Woodlands. English words by Mrs. Osgood, German words by H. S. Saroni; music by H. S. Saron: 4to 7p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
ScuNeiwer (J) Twigg’s Riflemen’s Quick Step, composed by J. Schneider : dto Ip --Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 : deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Scuett (John) The Battle of Resaca de la Palma, composed for the piano forte by J. Schell: 4to 13p --Baltimore, published by George

<<<Page: 187>>>

231 cay
Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Sere that little flower so gay, for one or two voices, arranged by J. M. J.: dto 4p --New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1849 : deposited by Jaques & Brother, 19 December 1849.
SereiinG (Marie R.) Souvenir de la Saxe, valse pour le piano forte. Precedée d’une introduction sentimentale composée par Marie R. Seigling: 4to 7p --Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Seite (Louis) Mass for three Voices, by Lows Selle, dto 34p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; depesited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Sumas (Charles P.) See: Otto F.
Srvons (George W.) Be kind to each other, song for one or two voices, composed by George W. Simons: 4to 2p --Cincinnati, pub-
lished by W. C. Peters ; deposited by W. C. Peters.
Stoman (Jane) The Mosquito Polka, by Jane Sloman: 4to 5p --New York, published by Wilham Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Smita (Henry) The Church Harmony, containing a selection of psalm and hymn tunes, set to pieces and anthems from the most approved authors, adapted to the divine worship of the various religious denominations; and a concise introduction to music. With additions and improvements, including a supplement or selection of sacred music, adapted to the service of the sanctuary, in the German language; also a series of practical lessons on time, notation, &c., on a new and improved arrangement. 26th edition. By Henry Smith: 16mo long, 355p---Chambersburg, published by the proprietor ; deposited by Henry Smith.
Sropparp (J. T.) Evergreen Waltz, composed by J. 'T. Stoddard: 4to 2p-Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Strrakoscu (Maurice) Souvenir de l’Amerique. Amusement de Salon, sur les motivs Eteiopins, composé par M. Strakosch: 4to 9p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849; deposited by W. C. Peters, 21 September 1849.
Mazurka Brilliante, composed for the piano forte by M. Strakosch: 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 18 December 1849.
Mazurka Sentimentale, composed for the piano forte by M. Strakosch: 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1846; deposited by W. C. Peters, 18 December 1849.
La Sylphide, Fantaisie Romantique, pour le piano, composée par Maurice Strakosch: 4to 15p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
The Moonlight of the Heart, a song; the words by
Mrs. Abdy, the music by Maurice Strakosch : 4to 7p — New

<<<Page: 188>>>

{#4 232
York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Souvenir de l’Amerique. Amusement de Salon, sur des motivs Etiopiens, composé par Strakosch: 4to 9p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August 1849.
Susan Rayne, a celebrated Ethiopian melody, arranged by E. P. Christy :
Ato 7p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
SwEETSER (Joseph E.) See: Root (George F.) Tennyson (Alfred) See : Martin.
THERE’S something on my lip, Love! ballad, written by W: D. Gallagher, adapted to an air, quanto é@ bella, quanto @ cara, in Donizetti's opera, L’Elisire a? Amour, by W. C. Peters: 4to 7 7p --Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849; deposited by George Willig. Jr., 4 April 1849.
Tuomas (E.) The Tears of early Love, a favorite ballad, written by F. W. ‘Thomas, the music composed by E. Thomas: 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by William C. Peters, 1849; deposited by William C. Peters, 4 April 1849. Tuomas (F. W.) See: Thomas E.
THorBECKE (E.) Homage to Mendelssohn; a scherzo for the piano forte, by E. Thorbecke: 4to 7p --Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.
Tripp (L.) See: Hill, (U. C.)
Tuckerman (S. P.) Bancrorr (S. A.,) and Ortver (H. K.) The National Lyre, a new collection of sacred music, consisting of psalm and hymn tunes, with a choice selection of sentences, anthems and chants ; designed for the use of choirs, congregations and singing echools : 8vo long, 160p --Boston, qublished by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1848: deposited by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 3 January 1848,
“Uncie Nep,” an Ethiopian melody, arranged by E. 8. Chandler: 4to 2p — Cincinnati, published by Peters, Field & Cos: ; deposited by Maso, Colburn & Co., 6 August 1849.
‘‘Uncie Nep,’’ a popular Ethiopian song, arranged for the guitar by F. Weiland: 4to 2p --Fe published by William C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by Lee & Walker, 6 August 1849.
Von La Hacue (Theodor) Locomotive Polka, composed for the piano forte by Theodor Von La Hache; 4to 4p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by Walliom Hall & Son, 14 December 18: 19.
Warren (George W.) Broadway Waltzes. No. 1, composed for the piano forte by George W. Warren: 4to 5p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Warson (Henry I.) See: Balmer (Charles.)
Watson (Henry C.) Asthore Macree, a song for my own love ; words from

<<<Page: 189>>>

233 req
the Dublin Nation, music by Henry C. Watson: 4to 5p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by W sitisim Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Wess (George James) See: Mason (Lowell.) Weianp (F.) See: Uncle Ned.
Wousierrer (P. M.) Practical instruction in Singing, for schools and singing classes, ce ae in four parts, Part 1. By P. M. Wolsiefter : 4to long, 19p--Philadelphia, published by P. M. Wolsieffer and M. H. Traubel, 1849 ; deposited by P. M. Wolsieffer and M. H. Traubel, 12 August 1849.
Woopsury (I. B.) The Fisherman’s Song, poetry by W. B. I., music composed by I. B. Woodbury, “Tbeing No. 5, of] Lays of New England: 4to 5p --New York, published by William Hall & Son 1549 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
Good Night, duett, words by W. B. I., music composed by I. B. Woodbury, Lays of New England: Ato 5p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; deposited by Williarn Hall & Son, 14 December 1849.
ANDREWS WS: P.) and Boyre (A. F.) Elements of Phonography : chart No. 2; deposited by Andrews & Boyle.
Compendium of Phonography : [ one sheet ; | deposited by S. P. Andrews & A. F. Boyle.
Bapuam (Otis G.) The Common-School writing-book. In five numbers — New York, published by Collins & Brother, 1848; deposited by O. G. Badlam.
Bonner (William G.) Pocket map of the State of Georgia — Published at Milledgeville, 1848.
Breese (Samuel, A. M.) Harper’s Cereographic map of the United States and Canada, showing the canals, railroads and principal stage routes — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; i deposited by Harper & Brothers.
Brurr (J. G.) A correct map of the seat of War in Mexico — New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1547.
Map of the Valley of Mexico, and the surrounding mountains _ — New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1847.
Coir (James) Time’s Day Book.
Crozer (C.) A map of the Internal Improvements of Virginia, prepared under a resolution of the General Assembly, adopted March 15, 1848. Engraved by P. S. Duvall, Philadelphia : deposited by Claudius Crozet.

<<<Page: 190>>>

i ig 234
DisTURNELL (John) United States National Register, 1850: New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1849; deposited by J. Disturnell.
Dory (H. H.) Susannah and the Elders: drawn on stone by N. Sarony ; the origmal by Louis Blanc — Philadelphia, published by H. H. Doty, 1849; deposited by H. H. Doty.
Fac SimiLe of the Autographs of the merchants and other citizens of Philadelphia, as subscribed to the non-importation resolutions, October 25, 1765: one sheet — Philadelphia, published and deposited by Thomas Fisher.
FisHEeR (Samuel B.) and Suzarer (P. W.) Map of the first and second anthracite coal fields in Pennsylvania; embracing Schuylkill county, and parts of Carbon, Luzerne, Columbia, Northumberland, Dauphin and Lebanon counties — Philadelphia, published by Robert P. Smith; deposited by Robert P. Smith.
Fircu (George W.) Mapping cards, Nos. 1, 4, and 5. Brooklyn, published by A. M. Walder, 1848; deposited by A. M. Wilder & Co., and George W. Fitch.
Fow er (William B.) Outline maps, viz: Asia, Africa, Europe, North America, South America, United States, Eastern Hemisphere, and Western Hemisphere ; deposited by William B. Fowle.
Goitptuwair (J. H.) Railroad map of New England, and eastern New York.
Compiled from the most authentic sources, 1849: deposited by J. H. Goldthwait.
GrirritH (Francis P.) A chart, containing the names of Senators of the United States, from every State in the Union, from the commencement of the Federal Government to the present period ; also, the names of Presidents and Vice Presidents, Cabinet ofhcers, &c. ; Columbus, published by F. W. Murray & Co., 1849 ; deposited by F. P. Griffith.
Husparp (Edwin) The Ancestral Register, ; published by Kellog & Hubbard, Hartford, Connecticut.
Jewett (Dr. Stephen,) Celebrated health restoring bitters, deposited by S. Jewett & Co.
Jounson (D. G.) Colton’s illustrated and embellished steel plate map of the World, on Mercator’s projection, compiled from the latest and most authentic sources — New York, published by J. H. Colton, 1849; deposited by J. H. Colton.
LapHaM (J. A.) Map of the State of Wisconsin, compiled from the latest authorities — Milwaukie, Wisconsin, 1849; deposited by J. A. Lapham.
Map or Mexico: Mapa de los Estados Unidos de Méjico, Segun la organizado y definido por los varias actas del Congreso de dicha Republica ; y construido por las autoridades — Neuva York, 1847;

<<<Page: 191>>>

235 a
revised edition, published by J. Disturnell; deposited by J. Disturnell.
Map of the countries embraced within the travels of St. Paul; deposited by A. M. Wilder & G. W. Fitch.
Map of the States of Missouri, Ilimois, Lowa and Wisconsin; the territory of Minnesota, and the mineral lands of Lake Superior — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1849 ; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co.
Musury’s compound extract of Sarsaparilla and Wau-a-hoo, [ label. |
Murray (H. C.) Original patterns for Gothic railings. No. 1, Farnandis’ fancy ; No. 4, Jones’ fancy.
Oxyey (J.) Outline maps for common schools, viz: North America, South America, World, Europe, Asia, Africa, United States, Atlas folio — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847 ;
deposited by J. Olney,
Orrey (J. W.) and Wurrrrorp (R.) Map of Burlmgton county, N. Jersey, from original surveys — Philadelphia, published by Smith & Wistar, 1849, &
And Kerry (J.) Map of Mercer county, New Jersey, entirely from original surveys — Camden, published by Lloyd Van Der Veer ; deposited by Robert P. Smith.
Rea (Samuel M.) and Price (Jacob) Map of New Castle County, Delaware, from original surveys: Philadelphia, published by. Smith & Wistar, 1548 ; deposited by Robert P. Smith.
Sipyey (J. C.) Map of twelve miles around New York, with the names of property holders, &c. From entirely new and original surveys : Philadelphia, engraved on stone by N. Friend, printed by H. Camp ; deposited by J. C. Sidney.
Map of the City of Trenton, New Jersey, from actual surveys: Philadelphia, published by M. Dripps, 1849 ; deposited by M. Dripps.
Map of the City of Philadelphia, together with all the surrounding districts, including Camden, New w Jersey: Philadelphia, published by Smith & Wistar, 1849 ; deposited by Robert P, Smith.
— (J. Calvin) Map of the State of New York, showing the boundaries of counties and townships, the location of cities, towns and villages ; the courses of railroads, canals and stage roads: New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1848 ; deposited by J. Disturnell.
Sransbie (Alexander C.) Kerrey (James) and (Rea Samuel M.) A Map of the counties of Salem and Gloucester, New Jersey, from original surveys: Philadelphia, published by Smith & Wistar, 1849 ; deposited by Smith & Wistar.
STEBBINS a) A new system of Public Advertising, designed to occupy the
back, border, and blank places of maps and other prints, not coming under the head of general news prints; a chart.
STEVENS (Enos) Diagram of the Solar System, adapted to Stevens’ rudi

<<<Page: 192>>>

fi] 236
ments of Astronomy : Boston, 1849; deposited by E. Stevens. Phrenological Chart. Lithographed by Tappan & Bradford, Boston; deposited by Enos Stevens.
STUDENTS pes (in raised letters for the use of the blind); 8 pages olio.
Tas_e or Waces from one to thirty days, at from eight to forty dollars per month. Buffalo, published by L. Danforth & Co.
Tetters (C. W.) System of cutting ; chart.
TEMPERANCE T'apuLa and Family Pledge: engraved by E. Chase, 1848; deposited by Orlando Lund.
Wesster (E. L.) The Dress Maker’s Chart; deposited by E. L. Webster, 1849.
Wincuester (George W.) Drawing and Writing Cards, accompanied by a key with ample directions; in four parts; part 1, two copies, atlas folio: Hartford, published by H. S. Parsons & Co.; deposited by G. W. Winchester, 1849.
—_——
LIST of Books, Maps, Charts, Musical Compositions, §c., delivered to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, from January 1, to December 31, 1850; in compliance with the following requirement of the Act of Congress, approved August 10, 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution :
** Section 10. And be it further enacted, 'That the author or proprietor of any Book, Map, Chart, Musical Composition, Print, Cut, or Engraving, for which a copy right shall be secured under the existing acts of Congress, or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copy rights, shall, within three months from the publication of said Book, Map, Chart, Musical] Composition, Print, Cut, or Engraving, deliver, or cause to be delivered, one copy of the same to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, and one copy to the Librarian of Congress Library, for the use of the said Libraries.”’
Part I.—+*BOOKS. « JI.—MUSICAL COMPOSITIONS. <; III.— MAPS; PRINTS, &c. &c.

<<<Page: 193>>>

237 [ad
Asgott (Jacob,) History of William the Conquerer. By Jacob Abbott; with engravings : 16mo 291p— New York, pt ublished by Harper & Brothers; deposited by Harper & Brothers, Marc ‘h 1850.
History of Cyrus the Great, by Jacob Abbott; with engravings: 16mo 289p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850: deposited by Harper & Brothers, 20 May 1850.
History of Darius the Great, by Jacob Abbott; with enravings: 12mo 286p — New York, published by. Harper & Brothers, 8 82 Cliff street, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 20 August 1850,
History of Xerxes the Great, by Jacob Abbott; with engravings: 16mo 302p — New York, Harper & Brothers, publishers, 82 Cliff street ; deposited by Harper & Brothers, ti) October 1850.
Assotr (Charles) Lord Tenterden, Chief Justice of England; a treatise of the law relativéto merchant ships and seamen, in five parts: 1, of the owners of merchant ships; 2, of the persons employed in the navigation of merchant ships and the conveyance of passengers therein; 3, of collision; 4, of the carriage of goods in merchant ships; 5, of the wages of merchan’ seamen. B Charles Lord Tenter den, | late Chief Justice of England. Eighth edition. By William Shee. Sixth American edition: with the notes of Mr. Justice Story and additional annotations. By J. C. Perkins, Esq.: S8vo large, 1008p — Boston, published by Charles C. Little & James Brown ; deposited by Little & Brown, 19 July 1850.
AckEerMAN (A) First book of Natural History, by A. Ackerman: 12mo 286p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 60 John street ; deposited by A. Ackerman, 17 December 1850.
Apvams (John) The works of John Adams, second President of the United States : with a life of the author: notes and illustrations, by his grandson, Charles Francis Adams. Volume 2: 8vo 543p _ Boston: Charls C. Little & James Brown, 1850; deposited by Charles C. Little & James Brown, 13 November 1850.
Agassiz (Louis) Lake Superior : its physical character, vegetation and animals, compared with those of other and similar regions. By Louis Agassis. With a narrative of the tour by J. Elliot ¢ ‘abot, and contributions by other scientific gentlemen. Elegantly illustrated: 8vo large, 428p --Boston, published by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 1850; deposited by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 15 March 1850.
Aurxanper (J. H.) Universal Dictionary of Weights and Measures, ancient and modern; reduced to the standards of the United States of America. By J. H. Alexander: 8vo large, 158p --Baltimore, William Minifie & Co., 1850 ; deposited by William Minifie 28 September 1850.

<<<Page: 194>>>

f1] | 238
ALEXANDER (J. A.) See: Brie. The Psalms translated and explained by J. A. Alexander.
Autyn (Avery) A Ritual of Freemasonry, illustrated by numerous engravings. ‘To which is added a key to the Phi Beta Kappa, the Orange, and Odd Feliows Societies; with notes and remarks by Avery Allyn, K. R.C., K. T. K. M., &c.: 12mo 269p --New York, William Gowans, 1850; deposited by William Gowans 26 December 1850.
ALPHABET made easy, or one step at a Time; by Mrs. C. M. Peat: 12mo O7p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston ; deposited by C. M. Peat, 14 February 1850.
Ausop (Samuel) Key to first Lessons in Algebra; by Samuel Alsop: 12mo 73p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle ; 1850, deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle, 30 April 1850.
American Fowl Breeder; (The) containing full information on Breeding, rearing, diseases, and management of domestic poultry ; also instructions concerning the choice of pure stock, crossing, caponizing, &c., &c. ; with engravings y an association of practical breeders : 12mo 91p --Boston, published John P. Jewett ; deposited by Joel Nourse, 14 March 1850.
AnpeErson (John J.) See: Davenport (Bishop.)
ANGEL Voices; or, words of counsel for overcoming the world. After the mode of Richter’s Best Hours. Second edition revised and enlarged: 16mo 117p— Boston published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850; deposited by William Treat of Buffalo, 8 January 1850,
ANGELL (Joseph K.) A treatise on the law of water Courses, with an appendix, containing statutes of flowing and forms of declarations; by Joseph K. Angell. Fourth edition revised, and containing references to many new adjudged cases: 8vo 661p Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1850; deposited by Joseph K. Angell, 18 July 1850.
ArcHBoLp (Miss Ann) A book for the Married and Single, the grave and the gay: and especially designed for steamboat passengers. By Miss Ann Archbold: 16mo 192p — East Plainfield, Ohio, printed at the office of the ‘‘Practical Preacher,” N. A. Baker, printer, 1850; deposited by Miss Ann Archbold, 23 December, 1850.
Arruur (T,S.) Golden Grains from Life’s Harvest Field. By T. S. Arthur: 12mo 240p — Philadelphia, published by J. W. Bradley, 1850; deposited by J. W. Bradley, 29 June, 1850.
Illustrated Temperance Tales; by T. S. Arthur; with an autobiography and portrait of the author : 8vo 320p --Philadelphia, published by J. W. Bradley, 1850; deposited by J. W. Bradley, 29 June 1850 :
Sketehes of Life and Character; by T. S. Arthur. IlInstrated with sixteen engravings and a portrait of the author: 8vo 416p — Philadelphia published by J, W. Bradley, 1850; deposited by T. S, Arthur, 3 January 1850.

<<<Page: 195>>>

239 Pir Baker (B. F.) and Sournarp (L. H.) The Haydn collection of church
music ; selected and arranged from the works of Haydn, Handel Winter, Weber, Mendelssohn, Cherubini, Mozart, Beethoven, Paer, Rosini, and others; together with many original compositions. By B. F. Baker and L. H. Southard: 8vo long, 352p — Boston, published by Charles H. Pierce, 1850; deposited by B. F. Baker, 17 September 1850.
Battimore Olio and American Musical Gazette ; a monthly parlor companion for the ladies, devoted chiefly to music, the arts and musical mtelligence generally ; vol. 1, No. 1 —10 January ; October 1850: Baltimore ; published by W. C. Peters, 4to 12p: deposited by W. C. Peters, No 1, 18 January ; No. 2, 16 February; No. 3, 15 March; No. 4,8 April; No. 5, 16 May; Nos. 6, 7 and 8, 6 August ; Nos. 9 and 10, 16 October.
Bar (The) of Iron; or the danger of unsanctified Affliction ; a true story : 12mo 68p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850. E
Bargour (Oliver L.) Reports of cases in Jaw and equity in the Supreme court of the State of New York. Vols 4 and 5. By Oliver L. Barbour: Svo large-—Albany published by Gould Banks & Gould, 1850; deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould, March 29 1850. Vol 5, 8vo large, 7232p — Albany, Gould, Banks & Gould, 1850, deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould, 29-June 1850.
Barnes (Rev. Albert) Prayers for the use of Families, chiefly selected from
various authors, with a preliminary essay; together with a selection of hymns. By Atbert Barnes: 12mo 8360p --Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1850, deposited by Thomas, Comperthwait & Co., 23 February 1850.
Barnum’s American Museum, illustrated. A pictorial guide to that far famed establishment ; containing much interesting matter, and highly useful to visitors: 8vo — New York deposited by William Van Norden and Frank Leslie; 12 August 1850.
Barr (Robert M.) Pennsylvania State Reports, containing cases adjudged in the Supreme Court, during part of December term, 1848, and March term, and part of May term 1849, Volume 10. By Robert M. Barr, State Reporter: 8vo 559p --Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, 1849; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson, 21 January 1850.
Barrett (Solomon, Jr.) The Lingual Assistant: German, Spanish, French and English: comprising a complete set of rules for the correct pronunciation of the German, Spanish and French; a brief and comprehensive grammar, and a number of dialogues arranged as mercantile and business transactions; with an English transJation and a figured pronunciation by Solomon Barrett, Jr., Philologist, &c., &c., Philadelphia, printed by King & Baird, 1850; deposited by Solomon Barrett, Jr., 29 October 1850.
Bartiett (W. H. C., LL. D.) Elements of Natural Philosophy, by W. H. C. Bartlett, LL. D. Section 1, mechanics, 8vo large, 632p

<<<Page: 196>>>

oe 240 ' , ss
— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co.; deposited by W. H. C. Bartlett, 11 October 1850.
Beck (Theodric Romeyn) and (John B.) Elements of medical Jurisprudence. By Theodric Romeyn Beck, M. D., LL. D., and John B. Beck, M. D.; tenth edition, vol 1, 8vo S6p — Albany Little & Co. 1850: deposited by T, Romeyn Beck, 16 November 1850.
Beprorp (John W.) Bedford’s Arithmetic; the American Arithmetical Investigator ; in which the rudiments of numerical calculations are clearly exhibited, and rules educed ; also, several Arithmetical and Geometrical demonstrations peculiar to this work. The whole made familiar by the most practical examples, and a critical review of the several principles ; designed for the use of schools, and persons wishing to become acquainted with the science of Arithmetic. By John W. Bedford: 12mo 2389p — Syracuse: published by Stoddard & Babcock, 1850 ; deposited by John W. Bedford, 25 January 1850.
Bett (John, M. D.) Dietetical and Medical Hydrology. A treatise on Baths; including cold, sea, warm, hot, vapor, gas, and mud baths; also, on the water y regimett, hydropathy, and pulmonary inhalation ; wih a description of bathing i in ancient and modern times. By John Bell, M. D.,: 12mo G58p — Philadelphia, Barrington & Haswell, 1850; ‘deposited by John Bell, M. D., 18 May 1850.
Bryepict (Erastus C.) The American Admiralty, its jurisdiction and practice, with practical forms and directions. By Erastus C. Benedict :. 8vo lar ge, 661p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1850; deposited by E. C. Benedict, 20 May 1850.
BENNETT (amen on) The Prairie Flower, or adventures in the Far West, by Emerson Bennett, new edition, revised and corrected by the author, pamphlet, 8v0 120p --Cincinnati published by J. A. & U. P. James ; deposited by J. A. & U. P. James, 2 December 1850.
Biste — The Psalms translated and explained, by J. A. Alexander, Vol. 1,2, 3: 12mo, vol. 1, 4386p; vol. 2, 349p; vol. 3, 316p — New York Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by J. A. Alexander; vol. 1 and 2,9 October 1850; vol. 3, 18 December 1850.
Biny’s (John, late Alderman of Walnut ward, Philadelphia,) Justice or Magistrate’s Daily Companion. A treatise on the office and duties of Aldermen and Justices of the Peace, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania ; including all the required forms of process and docket entries, and embodying not only whatever may be deemed valuable to justices of the peace, but to landlords, tenants and general agents, and making this volume what it purports to be, a safe legal guide for business men, by John Binns, the third edition, “revised, corrected and greatly enlarged by Frederick C. Brightly, Esq. : Svo large --Philadelphia published by James “Kay 5 IT pee Brother, 1850; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother.

<<<Page: 197>>>

, 241
Buss (Mrs.) The Practical Cook Book, containing upwards of one thousand receipts; consisting of directions for selecting, preparing and cooking all kinds of meats, fish, poultry and game, soups, broths, vegetables and salads; also, for making all kinds of ‘plain and fancy breads, pastries, puddings, cakes, creams, ices, Jellies, preserves, marmalades, &c., &c., &c., together with various miscellaneous receipts, and numerous preparations for invalids. By Mrs. Bliss of Boston: 12mo 273p --Philadelphia, published by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., successors to Grigg, Elliott & Co, 1850; deposited by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 13 December 1850.
Buunt (Edmund M.) Thé American Coast Pilot; containing directions for the principal harbors, capes, and headlands on the coasts of North and South America: describing the soundings, bearings of lighthouses and beacons from the rocks, shoals, ledges, See “with the prevailing winds, setting of the currents, Ke., and the latitudes and longitudes of the principal harbors and capes; together with a tide table; by Edmund Blunt. Sixteenth edition, by E. & G. W. Blunt; 8vo 642p — New York, published by Edmund and George W. Blunt, 1856 ; deposited by E. & G. W. Blunt, 28 October "1850.
Boun (Henry G.) Bohn’s new hand book of Games: comprising whist, by Deschapelles, Mathews, Hoyle, Carleton; draughts by Sturges & Walker; billiards by White and Bohn; edited by Henry G.. Bohn; enlarged and improved by the introduction of sev eral games, almost exclusiv ely known in the United States: 12mo 652p — Philadelphia, Henry F. Anners, 1850; deposited by Henry F. Anners, 7 November 1850.
Boston Boox (The) Being specimens of Metropolitan Literature: 12mo 364p — Boston, published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850: deposited by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 8 January 1850.
Boyp (Rev. James Robert) See: Milton.
Bresan (James M.) Breban’s Interest Tables. Tables exhibiting at a glance, the interest on any sum from one dollar to ten thousand dollars, for any number of days, from one day to three hundred and sixty-six days, at 3, 3}, 4, 43, 5, 53, and 6 per cent., and also at any rate from 6 to 24 per cent., being the most correct and prompt manual of interest, for capitalists, bankers, merchants, conveyancers, treasury clerks, and men of business in all its departments: 12mo 3866p — Philadelphia published by James M. Breban, 1850; deposited by J. M. Breban, 19 March 1850.
Bricut (John Edward, Esq.) A Treatise on the Law of Husband and Wife, as respects: property, partly founded upon Roper’s treatise, and comprising Jacob’s notes and additions thereto. By John Edward Bright, Esq., of the Inner Temple, barrister at law ; with copious “notes and references to the American decisions, by Ralph Lockwood, counsellor at law; in two volumes ; Svo: Vol 1, 577p: Vol 2, 680p — New York, Banks, Gould & Co., and Gould, Banks and Gould, Albany, 1850; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co., 19 November 1850.
Mis.—16.

<<<Page: 198>>>

rag] 242
Bricutry (Frederick C.) See: Bryns (John) Brirran (N.) and Suerwoop (L. H.) The School Song and Hymn Book ;
designed for general use in schools, academies and seminaries : edited by N. Brittan and L. H. Sherwood ; 12mo 3886p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co.,1850; deposited by AS. Barnes & Co., 1 February 1850.
Brown (James) An English Grammar, in three books; developing the new science, made up of those constructive principles which form a sure guide in using the English Language; but which are not found in the old theory of English grammar. By James Brown. Book 1: 12mo 116p — Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange 1850; deposited by James Brown, 14 February 1850.
No. 1. An Appeal from the absurdities and contradictions, which pervade and deform the old theory of English grammar, to the constructive principles of the English Language: by James Brown: 8vo 18p — Philadelphia, John T. Lange ; deposited by James Brown, 15 April 1850.
An appeal from the absurdities and contradictions which pervade and deform the old theory of English grammar, to the true constructive principles of English language; by James Brown: 8yvo 209p — Philadelphia, published by J. T. Lange,: 1850; deposited by James Brown, 27 August 1850.
Brownine (Colin Arrot, M. D.) The Convict Ship; A narrative of the results of Scriptural instruction and moral discipline on board the “Karl Grey”’?: by Colin Arrot Browning; from the fourth English edition ; with a preface by Rev. James A. Fowles; 12mo 275p— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 26 March, 1850.
Bryant (William Cullen) Letters of a Traveller; or, Notes of things seen in Europe and America. By Wilham Cullen Bryant. Second Edition: 12mo 442p— New York, George P. Putnam, 155 Broadway, 1850; deposited by William Cullen Bryant, 20 August 1550.
Burrum (E. Gould) Six months in the Gold Mines; from a Journal of three years’ residence in Upper and Lower California, 1847-89. By E. Gould Buffum, Lieutenant first Regiment New York Volunteers: 12mo 172p— Lea & Blanchard, Philadelphia, publishers, 1850; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 19 August 1850.
3uLtions (Peter, D. D.) First Lessons in Greek, introductory to the Greek Grammar ; comprising an epitome of Greek Grammar exercises analytical and synthetical; a series of reading lessons, Notes and a Lexicon. By Peter Bullions, D. D.; 12mo 204p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1850; deposited by Peter Bullions, 6 June 1850.
SurKirT (Lemuel) and Reap (Jesse,) A concise History of the Kehukee Baptist Association, from its original rise down to 1803. Wherein are shown its first constitution, increase, numbers, principles, form of government, decorum, revolution, revivals, ministers, churches, confession of faith, times and

<<<Page: 199>>>

\ 243  places when and where associations have been holden, queries and their answers, and all other useful articles relative to church history. By Elders Lemuel Burkitt and Jesse Read, Ministers of the Gospel in Northampton and Halifax counties, North Carolina. Revised and improved by Henry L. Burkitt : 16mo 351p — Philndelphia, Lippincott, Grambo & Co, 1550: deposited by Henry L. Burkitt, 22 August 1850.
Burteicu (Joseph Bartlett) Progressive Practical Questions ; designed to accompany any Arithmetic. In four parts. By Joseph Bartlett Burleigh. Parts 1 and 2: 12mo71p — Philadelphia, published by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 1850; deposited by J. B. Burleigh, 20 February 1850.
Burnap (George W.) Popular objections to Unitarian, Christianity con-
sidered and answered in seven discourses. By George W. Burnap, Pastor, First Independent church of Baltimore : ‘2mo 166p
Boston, W eee ay & H. P. Nichols, 1850; deposited by Crosby & Nichols, 24 September 1850.
Bournuam (A. A.) Festina Woodman, the Wonderful Adventurer. By A. A. Burnham: 8vo 60p — Boston, Redding & Co., 1850; deposited by A. A. Burnham, 6 April 1850.
Burrowes’ Piano Forte Primer, containing the rudiments of Music, calculated either for private tuition or teaching in classes. Revised and enlarged with additions and alterations by W. C. Peters: 12mo 58p — Louisville, published by sacle Webb & Co., 1849; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Busunetyu (Horace) The Fathers of New England. An oration delivered before the New England society of New York, December 21, 1849, and published at their request. By Horace Bushnell : pamphlet, 8vo 44p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam : deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1820.
Casinet of Modern Art. A collection of twenty-five subjects from modern masters, engraved in the highest style of Mezzotinto. Illustrated by appropriate articles in prose and verse: S8vo 264p— Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1851; deposited by 1h. HL. Butler & Co.,'7 December 1850.
Canrietp (Russel, L. S. P.) Practical Physiology, being a synopsis of Lectures on Sexual physiology, including intermarriage, organization, intercourse, and their general and particular phenomena. By Russel Canfield, L. S. P.: 16mo 142p — Philadelphia, J. Wixson & Co., 1850 ; deposited by R. Canfield, 31 September 1850.
Carron (Eliab W.) and Barron (Henry D.) Singular Revelations, Explanation and History of the My sterious Communion with Spirits, comprehending the Rise and Progress of the mysterious noises in western New York, generally received as. spiritual communications. Second Edition, revised and enlarged, with additional proof. By Eliab W. Capron and Henry i Barron: 8vo 95p — Auburn, New York, Capron & Barron, 1850; deposited by Capron & Barron, R August 1850.
Carpenter (William H.) Ruth Emsley, the Petrothed Maiden. A tale of

<<<Page: 200>>>

1 244  / the Virginia Massacre. By William H. Carpenter, Esq., author of ‘‘ Clairborne, the Rebel,’’ &c. Complete in one volume ;: 8vo 130p — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 10 August 1850.
Cary (S. F., M. W. P.) The National Temperance Offering, and Sons and Daughters of Temperance Gift. Edited by 8S. F. Cary, M. W.P., of the Sons of Temperance of North America: Svo large, 320p — New York, published by R. Vandien, 1850 ; deposited by Richard Vandien, 3 September 1850.
CazEaux (P.) A Theoretical and Practical treatise on Midwifery, including the diseases of Pregnancy and Parturition. By P. Cazeaux. Adopted by the Royal Council of Public Instruction: translated from the second French edition, with occasional notes and a copious index. By Robert O. Thomas, M. D. With one hundred and seventeen illustrations: 8vo large, 765p—Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 14 February 1850.
Cuase (Lucien B.) History of the Polk administration. By Lucien B.
Chase, a member of the twenty-ninth and thirtieth Congress: 8vo large, 512p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by Lucien B. Chase, 20 August 1850.
Cuavuvenet (William, A. M.) A treatise on plane and spherical 'Trigonometry. By William Chauvenet, A. M.: 8vo large, 256p — Philadelphia, published by Henry Perkins, 1850; deposited by William Chauvenet, 7 June 1850.
Curistiana and her Children; or, the second part of Cottage Lectures on Pilgrim’s Progress ; designed for family and cottage reading: 12mo: 3872p — Philadelphia, American Sunday-School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School-Union, 24 August 1850.
CuristMas Blossoms and New Years’ Wreath, for 1851. By Uncle Thomas: 12mo 256p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 18515; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 December 1850.
Tribute (The) and New Year’s Gift: A Souvenir for 1851: 12mo 3829p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1851 ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 December 1850.
CuurcuiLu (Fleetwood, M. D., &c.) On the Diseases of Infants and Chil-
: dren. By Fleetwood Churchill, M. D., &c.: 8vo large, 656p —Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1850; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 5 February 1850.
Ciry Characters; or, Familiar Scenes in Town. Illustrated with twentyfour designs: 16mo — Philadelphia, George S. Appleton; deposited by George S. Appleton, 2 October 1850.
Ciaccert (R., A. M.) The American Expositor; or, Intellectual Definer. Designed for the Use of Schools. By R. Claggett, A. M. New and, revised Edition: 16mo 190p — New York, Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 17 December 1850.

<<<Page: 201>>>

: 245 oe
Craccert (R., A. M.) Elocution made easy ; containing Rules and Selections for Declamation and Reading, with Ficures illustrative of Gesture. By R. Claggett, ASM. Stereotype Edition : 12mo 167p — New York, “Cady & Burgess, 1848; deposited by Paine & Burgess, 17 December 1850.
Ciemen (Robert) Geschichte der Inquisition in Spanien, von Robert Clemen. Erster Band: 8vo 400p — Columbus, Ohio, gedruckt bie Scott u. Bascom, 1850: deposited by R. Clemen, 19 October 1850.
CrerkE (Thomas W.) A Digest of the Reports of cases, determined in the Supreme Court of Judicature, and the court for the Correction of Errors, of the State of New York; together with the reported cases of the Superior court for the City and County of New York, from the organization of said courts; including Coleman’s cases, Caines’ reports, 3 vols; Caines’ cases in Error, 2 vols; Johnson’s cases, 3 vols; Hohnson: s ps 20 vols; Cowden’s reports, 9 vols; Wendell’s reports, 26 vols ; Hill’s reports, 7 vols; Denio’s reports 5 vols; Barton’s Law reports, 4 vols; Comstock’s reports, 1 vol; Hall’s reports, 2 vols; Sandford’s reports, 1 vol.; Anthon’s nisi prius. By Thomas W. Clerke, Counsellor at Law: revised and continued to the present time. By William Hogan, Counsellor at Law. In two volumes, : 8v0 vol 1, 1831p; vol 2, 1490p — New York, Banks, Gould & Co.: Albany, Gould, Banks & Gould, 1850; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co. ,19 November 1850.
Coates (Reynell, M. D.) Leaflets of Memory ;_ an illuminated Annual for 1851. Edited by Reynell Coates, M. D.: 8vo 312p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co. , 1851; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 December 1850.
Coxs (Joseph B.) The Creole ; or, siege of New Orleans, an Historical romance, founded on the events of 1814-15. By Joseph B. Cobb. Complete in one volume: 8vo 151p—Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850 ; deposited by A. Hart, 27 April 1850.
CoLtpurn (Warren, A. M.) Colburn’s First Lessons. Intellectual Arithmetic, upon the Inductive method of Instruction. By Warren Colburn, A. M. New Edition. Revised and Improved: 16 mo 160p— Boston, published by W. J. Reynolds & Co., 1850; deposited by W. J. Reynolds & Co., 9 May 1850.
Corton (Rev. Walter) Deck and Port; or, Incidents of a Cruise in the United States Frigate Congress to California, with sketches of Rio Janeiro, Valparaiso, Lima, Koholula anil San Francisco. By Rey. Walter Colton, U. S. N.: 12mo 408p — New York, published by A. S. Baie: & Co.; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co., 20 April 1850.
Comer (George N.) Writing without a Master ; Six lessons on Writing. With plates by which persons may instruct themselves in a beautiful and easy style of hand writing, so essential for business or correspondence, without the aid of a master. By George N. Comer, Accountant : 12mo pamphlet, Boston, pub

<<<Page: 202>>>

rey 246 .
lished by George N. Comer; deposited by George N. Comer, 28 September 1850.
Common School Journal (The) New Series; for the year 1849, volume 11, from the commencement, and volume 1, of the new series. Edited by Wilham B. Fowle ; 8vo 3884p — Boston, published by Lemuel N. Ide, 1849 ; deposited by Wilham B. Fowle, 27 March 1850.
CoMPREHENSIVE Tables of Interest, showing the interest at six, seven, eight and ten per cent. per annum, on any sum from one-dollar to twenty-thousand dollars, from one day to thirty days, one month to twelve months, and one year to three years inclusive. To which is added a calender, by which may be ascertained the day of the week on which any date in the years 1851 to 1860, inclusive will occur, and also a Time Table: 32mo — Philadelphia, published by Matthew T. Miller, 1850; deposited by Matthew 'T. Miller, 9 October 1850
Comstock (J. L., M. D.,) The Young Botanist; being a treatise on the Science; prepared for the use of persons just commencing the study of plants. By J. L. Comstock, M. D. Third Edition : 12mo 2483p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1850; deposited by J. L. Comstock, 6 May 1850.
Primary Lessons in Natural Philosophy, designed for Common Schools, and as an introduction to the Author’s System of Natural Philosophy. By J. L. Comstock, M. D.: 16mo 224p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1850; deposited by J. L. Comstock, 6 May 1850.
Comstocx’s Phonetic Magazine : volumes 1 and 2; : 8vo 258p — Philadelphia, published by “A. Comstock, M. D. ; ; deposited by A. Comstock, 28 September, 1850.
Comstock (George F.) Reports of Cases, argued and determined in the court of Appeals of the State of New York ; with notes, references, and an index. By George F. Comstock Little & Co’s. Official Edition. Vol. 3, Part 1: 276p Svo — Albany, Little & Company, 1850 ; deposited by Christopher Morgan, Secretary of State, in trust for the benefit of the people of the State of New York, 12 November 1850.
Conciin (George) A book for all Travelers ; Conclin’s new river Guide, or, a Gazetteer of all the towns on the Western waters ; containing sketches of the cities, towns, and countries bordering on the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, and their principal tributaries ; together with their population, products, commerce, &c., &c., in {S48 : and many interesting events of History, connected with them ; compiled from the latest and best authority, with 44maps : 8vo 128p — Cincinnati, published by H. S. & J. Applegate, 1850 ; deposited by George Conclin, 13 Feb. 1850.
Coon (Reune R.) The doctrine of Future and Endless Punishment, logically proved, ina critical examination of such passages of Seripturé,

<<<Page: 203>>>

247 ray
as relate to the final destiny of man. By Reune R. Coon: 12mo 368p — Cincinnati, published by J. A. & U. P. James, 1850; deposited by J. A. & U. P. James, 27 December 1850.
Coorer (J. Fenimore) The ways of the Hour; a tale. By the ag of “<The Spy,” “The Red Rover,”’, &c. : 2mo 512p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; a. sited by J. F. Cooper, 29 April 1850.
Copway (G.) The Ojibway Conquest; a tale of the Northwest. By Kahge-ga-gah-bowh, or, G. Copway, Chief of the Ojibway nation; 12mo SIp — New Yor k, published by George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. Copway, 20 August 1850.
Cross (Jeremy L.) The true Masonic Chart, or, Hieroglyphic Monitor ;
containing all the emblems ex plained i in the degrees of entered appr entice, fellow craft, master mason, mark master, past master, most excellent master, royal arch, royal master, and select master ; designed and duly arranged agreeably to the lectures, by R. W. Jeremy L. Cross, G. L. To which are added illus trations, charges, songs, kc. , with additions and emendations ; also a History of Free e Masonry, by a brother. Sixth and stereotype Edition. Two copies: 12mo 342p — published by the Author, New York, 1846; deposited by the author, 7 May 1850.
The Templar’s Chart, or, Hieroglypic Monitor; containing all the emblems and hier roglypics explained in the valiant and magnanimous orders of knights of the red cross, knights templars, and knights of Malta: designed and duly arranged agreeably to the ‘mode of work and ‘lecturing. By Jeremy L. Cross. ‘To which are added lessons, exhortations, prayers, charges, songs, &c. Second Edition, with improvements. Two copies: 12mo 2253p — published by the Author, New York, 1845; deposited by Jeremy L. Cross, 7 May 1850.
Crowe. (William) The Church Member’s Hand Book; a guide to the Doctrines and practice of Baptist churches. By Wiliam Crowell: 12mo 140p — Boston, published by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 1850; deposited by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 15 March 1850.
Cruixsnank (J. & A.) Sabbath School Gems of Musie and Poetry ; designed expressly for the Sabbath school. By J. & A. Cruikshank : 16mo oblong, 144p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by J. & A. Cruikshank, 20 April 1850.
Cruise (William, Esq.) A Digest of the law of Real Property. By WilCruise, oe as Barrister at Law; ; revised and considerably enlarged by Henry Hopely White, Esq., Barrister at Law of the Middle Te ple. Further rev ised and abridged, with additions and notes for the use of American students, by Simon Greenleaf, LL. D., Emeritus Professor of Law in Harvard University. Jn seven volumes: vols 3, 4, 5, 6, '7— Boston, Charles C. Little & James Brown, 1850; Svo vol 3, 268p; vol 4, 566p; vol

<<<Page: 204>>>

Taq 248
5, p3 vol 6, 589p; vol 7,327p; deposited by Simon Greenleaf, LL. D.
Curtis (George Ticknor) Equity Precedents; supplementary to Mr. Justice Story’s treatise on Equity Pleadings. By George 'Ticknor Curtis : 8vo large, 562p—Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1850; deposited by G. T. Curtis, 28 May 1850.
Curwen (M. E.) Cases in the Ohio Reports, overruled, doubted, limited, and changed by legislation. By M. E. Curwen, of the Cincinnati bar: pamphlet, 8vo 45p — Cincinnnati, Wright, Ferris & Co., printers, 1850; deposited by M. E. Curwen, 29 November, 1850.
Cusuine (Luther S.) Reports of Cases argued and determined in_ the Supreme Judicial court of Massachusetts. By Luther S. Cushing. Vol. 1: 8vo large, 624p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1850; deposited by Charles C. Little & James Brown, 20 May 1850.
Cutter (Calvin, M. D.) First Book on Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene, for Grammar Schools and Families. With eighty-three engravings, Stereotype Edition. By Calvin Cutler, M. D.: 12mo 180p — Boston, published by Benjamin B. Mussey & Co., 1850 ; deposited by C. Cutler, M. D., 25 February 1850.
A Treatise on Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene: designed for colleges, academies, and families. By Calvin Cutler, M. D. With one-hundred and fifty engravings. Stereotype Edition: 12mo 458p — Boston, published by Benjamin B. Mussey & Co., 1850; deposited by C. Cutler, M. D.
Dapp (George H., M. D.) The Advocate of Veterinary Reform, and outlines of Anatomy and Physiology of the Horse ; also a general history of the rise and progress of the veterinary science in England, with practical observations on feeding, watering, grooming, shoeing, &c., &c.: written with a view of reforming the veterinary science, and teaching every man how to prevent disease in animals. Containing also a veterinary dictionary, selected from the works of R. White, V.S. of London, and adapted to the present state of the reformed practice in the United States, as practised by the author; with selections from the works of Youatt, Percival, and Curtis, together with remarks and observations on blood-letting and the use of poisons, showing their destructive tendency, &c. The fundamental principles taught in this work, are, that all medicine should be given With a view of aiding the vital powers, instead of depressing, as heretofore. By George H. Dadd, M. D., &c., &c. : 8vo 807p — Boston, published by the author, 1850 ; deposited by the author, 3 September, 1850.
Damrett & Moore and Coorener (George.) The Boston Almanac for the year 1851. By Damrell & Moore and George Cooledge. : 12mo 192p— Boston, published by B. B. Mussey & Co., No. 29 Cornhill, and Thomas Groom, 82 State street ; deposited by Mrs. S. N. Dickinson, 31 December 1850.
Dara (Richard Henry) Poems and Prose Writings. By Richard Henry

<<<Page: 205>>>

Dana. In two volumes: 12mo Vol. 1, 4483p; Vol. 2, 440 — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by Richard H. Dana, 3 January 1850.
Davenport (Bishop) History of the United States, containing all the events necessary to be committed to memory ; with the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States, and a Table of Chronology for the use of Schools. By Bishop Davenport. A new edition, revised and improved, and brought up to the present time, by John J. Anderson: 12mo
a, U. Hunt & Son, 1850; deposited by U.
Hunt & Son, 3 August 1850.
Davies (Charles, LL. D.) Grammar of Arithmetic; or, an analysis of the language of figures and science of numbers. By Charles Davies, LL. D.: 12mo 144p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by Charles Davies, 1 February 1850.
Arithmetic, designed for Academies and Schools ; uniting the reasoning of ‘the French with the practical methods of the English sy stem. With full illustrations of the methods of cancellation. Improved Edition. By Charles Davies, LL. D. Fifty-second Edition: 12mo 5360p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by Charles Davies, 1 February, 1550.
The University Arithmetic, embracing the science of numbers and their numerous applications. By Charles Davies, LL. D.; revised and improved edition: 12mo 408p—New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by Charles Davies, 20 April 1850.
Arithmetic, designed for academies and_ schools; uniting the reasoning of the French with the practical methods of the “English sy stem, with full illustrations of the methods of cancellation ; improved edition. By Charles Davies, LL. D.: 12mo 3860p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by Charles Davies, 20 May 1850.
The logic and utility of Mathematics, with the best methods of Instruction explained and illustrated. By Charles Davies, LL. D.: 8vo 3875p — New York, published by A. 3S. Barnes & Co. , 1850; deposited by Charles Davi ies, 31 July 1850.
Dav is (Andrew Teglcon): The Great Harmonia; being a Philosophical revelation of the Natural, Spiritual, and Celestial Universe. By Andrew Jackson Davis ; vol. L: 12mo0 456p — Boston, pub* lished by B. B. Murphy & Co., 1850; deposited by A. J. Davis, 11 June 1850.
Davis (Jonas Abraham) Auto-biography of Jonas Abraham Davis: a convert to Christianity from Judaism: 12mo 1 19p — Knoxville, Tennessee, printed at the Register office, 1850; deposited by Jonas Abraham Davis, 28 September 18 50.
Dean (Amos, Counsellor at Law and Professor of Medical Jurisprudence.) Principles of medical jurisprudence ; designed for the profes-
sions of Law and Medicine. By Amos Dean: Syo'664n — Al

<<<Page: 206>>>

fal 250
banged, Banks & Gould, 1850; deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould, 29 June 1850.
Deems (James M.) Vocal Music simplified ; an elementary and progressive method of teaching vocal music in classes, with original exercises in Solfeggi and Vocalization. peel James M. Deems ; pn two numbers, No. 1, treble; No. 2, bass: Svo bass, ] 112p tenor, 112 p—Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849. deposited by James M. Deems, 21 May 1850.
Dento (Hiram) Report of cases argued and determined in the Supreme court and in the court for the Correction of Errors of the State of New York. By Hiram Denio, vol. 5: 8vo 739p — Albany, published by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1850; deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould, 29 March 1850.
Denman (J. S.) The Student’s Primer, designed as a first book for children, an aid to parents and teachers in giving instructions in the first principles of Reading. By J.S. Denman: 12mo 48p— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co. 1850; deposited by J. S. Denman, 6 June 1850.
The Student’s Speaker ; a new collection of original and selected pieces in prose, dialogues, and poetry, designed to furnish suitable pieces for speaking i in schools and public examina~ tions. By J. S. Denman: 12mo 144p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1850; deposited by J. S. Denman, 6 June 1850.
Dorr (Rey. Benjamin, D. D.) The Churchman’s Manual; an exposition of the doctrines, ministry, and worship of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States. By the Rev. Benjamin Dorr, D. D., Rector of Christ Church, Philadelphia. Third edition, revised and corrected: 12mo 3839p — Philadelphia, published by Robert E. Peterson, 1850; deposited by Benjamin Dorr, 1 August 1850.
The Principal Prophecies and Types of the Old Testament, with their fulfilment ; arranged in the very words of Scripture, for the use of Sunday Schools. By the Rev. Beniamin piety, D. D., Rector of Christ Church, Philadelphia: 12mo 72p — Philadelphia, published by Robert E. Peterson, 1850; deposited by Benjamin Dorr, D. D., 12 August 1850.
Drake (Daniel, M. D.) A Systematic Treatise, historical, etiological, and practical, on the principal diseases of the interior valley of North America, as they appear in the Caucasian, African, Indian, and Esquimaux varieties of its population. y Daniel Drake, M. D. Two copies: 8 vo large, 878p — Cincinnati, published by Winthrop B. Smith & Co. ., 1850; deposited by Daniel Drake, M. D., 29 June 1850.
Dwicur (H. G. O.) Christianity revived in the East ; or, a narrative of the work of God among the Armenians of Turkey. By Hi. (GO: Dwight: 12mo 290p — New York, Baker & Scribner, 1850 3 deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 1850.
Ecxretpt (Jacob R.) and Dv Bots (William KE.) New Varieties of Gold

<<<Page: 207>>>

and Silver Coins, Counterfeit Coins, and Bullion; with Mint Values. By Jacob R. Eckfeldt and William E. Du Bois, Assayers of the Mint of the United States: 12mo 60p— Philadelphia, published by the Authors, 1850. Deposited by Jacob R. Eckfeldt and William E. Du Bois, 13 December 1850.
Enter (Mrs. Elizabeth F.) Domestic History of the American Revolution. By Mrs. Ellet: 12mo 308p— New York, Baker & Scribner ; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 1850.
The Women of the Revolution. By Elizabeth F. Ellet. In 3 vols. vol. 3: 12mo 396p—New York, published by Baker & Scribner 1850; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 25 April 1850.
Family Pictures from the Bible. By Mrs. Ellet; 12mo 223p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
Exxiotr (Rey. Charles, D. D.) Sinfulness of American Slavery, proved from its evil sources, its injustice; its wrongs; its contrariety to many Scriptural commands, prohibitions and principles, and to the Christian spirit; and from its evil effects; together with observations on emancipation, and the duties of American citizens in regard to slavery. By Rey. Charles Elhott, D. D. In two volumes. Edited by Rev. B. F. Tefft : 12mo vol. 1 3O7P, vol 2 378p— Cincinnati, published by L. Swormstedt & Power, 1850; deposited by L. Swormstedt & Power, 22 August 1850.
Exwoop (James L.) Elwood’s Grain Tables : showing the value of bushels and pounds of different kinds of grain, calculated in Federal money : so arranged as to exhibit upon a single page, the value at a given price from ten cents to two dollars per bushel, of any quantity from one pound to 10,000 bushels ; with other convenient and useful tables connected with produce transac-
tions. By James L. Elwood: 12mo 200p— Buffalo, published by George H. Derby & Co., 1850; deposited by James L. Elwood, 6 June 1850.
Estine (Mrs. C. H. W.) The broken Bracelet, and other poems. By Mrs. C. H. W. Esling, (formerly Miss Waterman) : 12mo 288p — Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1 November 1850.
Evancetiscurs Gesangbuch, oder eine Sammlung geistreicher Lieder zum Gebrauch der Evangelischen Gemeinschaft und aller heilsucheuelen Seelen ; Vierte und verbesserte Auflage: New Berlin, Pa., Verlegt von Heinrich Fischer fiir die Evangelische Gemeinse haft, 1850; deposited by Henry Fisher, 12 ‘April, 1850.
Everett (Edward) Orations and speeches on various occasions. By Edward Everett. In two volumes. Vol. 1, second edition; Vol. 2, first edition: 8vo Vol. 1, 669p; Vol. 2, 673p — Boston, Charles C. Little & James Brown, mig oe 5 deposited by Charles C. Little & James Brown; Vol. 1, 22 October; Vol. 2,17 September, 1850.
Every-sopy’s Almanac and Diary, for 1851. Containing a list of government officers, commerce and resources of the Union, exports

<<<Page: 208>>>

fi] | 252
of cotton, and general information for the merchant, tradesman and mechanic. ‘Together with a complete memoranda for every day in the year: Philadelphia, George S. Appleton, 164 Chesstreet, 1851; deposited by George S. Appleton, 2 October 1850.
Fares (William R.) Memoir of William R. Fales, the Portsmouth Cripple.  : 12mo 151p — Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1851; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 18 December 1850.
Famity and Ship Medicine Chest Companion: being a compendium of Domestic Medicine, Surgery and Materia Medica; with directions for the diet and management of the sick room; particularly adapted for heads of families, captains of ships, travellers and overseers of plantations; comprising plain rules for the administration of medicines, with their properties and doses. Also general rules on bathing, a plain description of the treatment of fractures and dislocations, &c., &c., and a concise account of the Asiatic and spasmodic cholera, with the remedies to be used in the absence of professional assistance. To which are added receipts of general utility for family purposes, selected from standard works by a practising physician: 12mo 416p — Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1851; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 18 December 1850.
Fintey (Rev. James B.) Memorials of Prison Life. By Rev. James B. Finley. Edited by Rev. B. F. Tefft, D.D.: 12mo 354p — Cincinnati, published by L. Swormstedt & J. H. Power 1850 ; deposited by Swormstedt & Power, 24 May 1850.
First Phonetic Reader. First Edition. Excelsior Series. pamphlet, 16mo 72p.— Longley & Brother, Phonetic Publishers, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1850; deposited by Longley & Brother, 16 December 1850.
Forry (Fanny—Pseud.) Romance of the Ocean; A Narrative of the Voyage of the Wildfire to California; illustrated with stories, anecdotes, etc. By Fanny Foley, one of the passengers, daughter of an officer of the medical staff: 12mo 218p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited Lindsay & Blakiston, 11 June 1850.
Foorr (Rev. William Henry, D. D.) Sketches of Virginia; Historical and Biographical. By Rev. William Henry Foote, D. D.: 8vo large 568p — Philadelphia, published by William S. Martien, 1850; deposited by William S. Martien, 15 May 1850.
Foseatz (Blanchard, M. D.) Sleep psychologically considered with reference to sensation and memory. By Blanchard Fosgate, M. D., Physician to the New York State Prison at Auburn: 12mo 188p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 2 August 1850.
Foster (G. G., Esq.) Celio; or, New York above-ground and under-groun¢. By G. G. Foster, Esq., Author of “ New York by Gaslight,” &c., pamphlet: 8vo 144) — New York, Dewitt & Davenport; deposited by Dewitt & Davennort. 13 November 1850.

<<<Page: 209>>>

Founrarn (The) of living Waters, in a series of sketches, by a Layman : 16mo 165p --New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
Founratn and the Bottle; comprising thrilling examples of the opposite effects of temperance and intemperance. Edited by a Son of ‘Temperance: 8vo 448p — Hartford, published by Case, Tiffany & Co., 1850, deposited by Case, Tiffany & Co., 30 November 1850.
Fow ter (Wilitam C.) English Grammar. The English Language in its Elements and "Forms. With a history of its origin and development. Designed for use in colleges or schools. By William C. Fowler: 8vo large, 675p —— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 82 Cliff street, 1850 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 3 September 1850.
Frencu (B. F.) Historical Collections of Louisiana, embracing translations of many rare and valuable documents relating to the natural, civil and political history of that State. Compiled with Rie oneal and biographical notes, and an introduction, by B. F. French. Part 2 : 8vo large, 8301p — Grae anes Daniels & Smith, 1850 ; deposited by B. F. French, 20 November 1850.
Frick (Charles, M. D.) Renal Affections: their Diagnosis and Pathology. By Charles Frick, M. D.: 12mo 189p — Philadelphia, Lea & Blanchard, 1850; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 16 December 1850.
Frienpsuir’s Orrerine: a Christmas, New-Years, and Birth-day present, for 1851: 12mo 330p— Boston, published by Phillips Sampson & Co., 1851; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 December 1850.
Furniss (William) Landvoieglee: or Views Across the Sea; A new edition of the “Old World.”? By Wilham Furniss. With a map and numerous tinted Lithographs: 12mo 290p— New York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1850; deposited by William Furniss, 25 March 1850.
Waraga : or, the Charms of the Nile. By William Furniss : 12mo 456p— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by William Furniss, 25 March 1850.
GeorcE (Anita.) Annals of the Queens of Spain, from the period of the Conquest of the Goths down to the reign of her present Majesty Isabel IL., with the remarkable events that occurred during their reigns, and anecdotes of their courts. By Anita George. Vol 2, 12mo 312p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by Anita George, 9 October 1850.
Greruarp (W. W., M.D.) The Diagnosis, Pathology and Treatment of the Diseases of the Chest. 2 ty W. W. Gerhard, M. D. Third Edition, revised and enlarged: Svo 3¢ 51p — Philade Iphia, published by Edmond Barrington & George D. Haswell, 1850; deposited by W. W. Gerhard, 15 August 1850.

<<<Page: 210>>>

cir 254
GotpEen Sanps (The) of Mexico; A Moral and Religious Tale, to which is added, True Riches, or, The Reward of Self-Sacrifice. With Illustrations by W. Croome: 12mo 211p— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 11 June 1850.
Goop Cutxp’s Library (The) First Book. Scenes in the Life of the Saviour. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson: 16mo 63p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850.
Child’s Library (The) Second Book. Scenes in the life of St. Peter.” In easy verse, with brillant illuminations from original designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & ‘Thompson : 16mo 60p —Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850.
Child’s Library. Third Book. Scenes in the Life of St.
John. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations, from original designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & 'Thompson: 16mo 56p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1550. Child’s Library. Fourth Book. Scenes in the life of St. Paul. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations, from original designs. Printed in oil colors by Hogan & 'Thompson: 16mo 59p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November, 1850.
Child’s Library. Fifth Book. Scenes in the lives of St. Matthew, St. Jude, and St. Simon. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations, from original designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson: 16mo 59p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan & ‘Thompson, 13 November 1850.
Child’s Library. Sixth Book. Scenes in the lives of St. Stephen, Timothy, St. Mark, and St. Luke. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson : 16mo 60p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850.
Child’s Library. Seventh Book. Scenes in the lives of St. Philip, St. Bartholomew, and St.Thomas. In easy verse. With brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in oil colors by Hogan & Thompson: 16mo 59p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850.
Child’s Library. Eighth Book. Scenes in the lives of St. Andrew, St. James, and St. James the Less. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in oil colors by Hogan & Thompson: 16mo 4538p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850.
Child’s Library. Ninth Book. Our Lord’s Sermon on the

<<<Page: 211>>>

Mount. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original des‘gns. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson: 16mo 56p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851; depo-
sited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850.
Child’s Library. Tenth Book. The Parables of the Saviour. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan and Thompson : “16mo 55p— Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 15 November 1850.
Child’s Library. Eleventh Book. The Miracles of the Saviour. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations, from original designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson : 16mo 5dp — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850.
Child’s Library. Twelfth Book. Texts for Children. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson: ‘16mo 60p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 “Nov ember, 1850.
Goopricu (Charles A.) A History of the United States of America, on a plan adapted to the capacity of youth, and designed to aid the memory by systematic arrangement and interesting assoclations. By Charles A. Goodrich. Tllustrated by engravings. To which is added, the Constitution of the United States. Revised and enlarged from former editions, and brought down to 1850: 12mo 418p — Boston, published by Jenks, Palmer, & Co., 1850; deposited by Charles A. Goodrich, 13 May 1850,
Goss (Ephraim) Supervisor’s Book; containing an abstract of all laws now in force relating to the powers and duties of supervisors of the several towns and counties of the State of New York, with suitable forms, notes, and references appended thereto. Together with a copy of the legislative and parliamentary rules, so far as applicable to boards of supervisors. B Ephraim Goss: 8vo 212p — Rochester, published by D. M. Dewey, 1549; deposited by Ephraim Goss, 10 December 1850.
Grace Dermott ; or, How to lighten Heavy Burdens: 12mo 198p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850.
GRAHAME: or, Youth and Manhood; A Remdnee: By the Author of “Talbot and Vernon :” 12mo 385p— New York, Baker and Seribner, 1850; deposited by Baker & Scribrier, 9 October 13850.
Gray (Alonzo, A. M.) Elements of Natural Philosophy. Designed as a Text-Book for Academies, High Schools, and Colle presen aby Alonzo Gray, A. M. Illustrated by 360 wood cuts: 12mo 405p — New York » published by Harper & Brothers; deposited hy Harper & Brothers, 7 March 1850.
Gray (Thomas) The Poetical Works of Thomas Gray. TIllustratd by C. W. Radcliffe. Edited, with a Memoir, by Henry Reed:

<<<Page: 212>>>

ea 256
12imo 3384p — Philadelphia, Henry Carey Baird, successor to E. L. Carey, 1851; deposited by Henry Carey Baird, 5 December 1850.
Grayson (Eldred, Esq.) Standish, the Puritan. A Tale of the American Revolution. By Eldred Grayson, Esq.: 12mo 320p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 20 May 1850.
GREELEY (Horace) Hints towards Reforms, in Lectures, Addresses and other writmgs. By Horace Greeley : 12mo 400p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850; deposited by Horace Greeley, 24 May 1850.
GaEENLeAF (Simon, L.L. D.) A Treatise on the Law of Evidence. By Simon Greenleaf, LL.D. Vol. 2. Third -Edition: S8vo large, 682p.— Boston, Charles C. Little & James Brown; deposited by Simon Greenleaf, 14 October 1850.
Green Mountain Boys (The) A Historical Tale of the Early Sett)ement of Vermont. By the Author of “ May Martin,” &c. 2 vols. in 1. Revised Edition: 12mo 364p— Burlington, published by C. Goodrich & S. B. Nichols, 1848 ; deposited by B. B. Mussey and Co., 25 February 1850.
Greenwoop (Grace) Greenwood Leaves, a Collection of Sketches and Letters. By Grace Greenwood: [Sara J. Clarke |: 12mo 406p.— Boston, Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850; deposited by Sara J. Clarke, 8 January 1850.
GrirritH (R. Eglesfeld, M.D.) A Universal Formulary: containing the methods of preparmg and administering officinal and other medicines. ‘The whole adapted to Physicians and Pharmaceutists. By R. Eglesfeld Griffith, M. D.: 8vo large 567p— Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1850; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 29 April 1850.
Guernsey (Egbert, A. M.) History of the United States of America, designed for Schools. Extending from the discovery of America by Columbus to the present time; with numerous maps and engravings, together with a notice of American Antiquities and the Indian Tribes. By Egbert Guernsey, A.M. Seventh Edition: 12mo 456p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Egbert Guernsey, A. M., 17 December 1850.
Cume to theWhite Mountains and Lakes of New Hampshire : with minute and accurate descriptions of the scenery and objects of interest on the route ; containing also full and correct information, relative to the towns, hotels, distances, fares, &c.: 16mo 9p — Concord, N. H., published by 'Tripp & Morril, printers, 1850; deposited by E. B. Tripp & W. H. Morril, 1 July 1850.
Guizor (Madame) Clara; or, The Discipline of Affliction. Translated from the French of Madame Guizot: 16mo 147p — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 27 April 1850.
Haut (Miss A.) The Literary Reader, for Academies and High Schools:

<<<Page: 213>>>

257 ee,
consisting of selections, in prose and verse, from American, English, and other foreign literature, chronologically arranged. Including biographical sketches, and remarks on the Art of Reading. By Miss A. Hall, author of the “Manual of Morals.”
12mo 408p'— Boston, published by John P. Jewett & Co.,
1850 ; deposited by Arethusa Hall, 28 October 1850.
ffarris (Chapin A., M.D., DD.S.) The Principles and Practice of Dental
Surgery. By Chapin A. Harris, M. D., DD. S., &c. Fourth edition, revised, modified and oreatly enlarged, with two hundred illustrations: 8yo 8903p — Philadelphia, published b Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 31 July 1850.
Harr (Professor John S.) The Iris; an illuminated Souvenir for 1851.
Edited by Professor John S. Hart: S8vo large, 8312p — Philadelphia, published by Lippincott, ee & rene 1850 ; deposited by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 2 8 September, 18 50.
Wartiey (Oliver @.) A Digest of the Laws of resi? to which is sub-
joined an appendix containing the Acts of Congress of the
United States on the subject ‘of the Naturalization of Aliens, and the Authentication of Records, &c., in each State or Territory, so as to take effect in every other State or Terr itory ; and to which are prefixed the Ounstitations of the United States, of the Provisional Government of Texas, of the Republic of Texas, and of the State of Texas. By Oler C. Hartley, of Galveston: Svo large, 1041p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1850; deposited by O. C. & B. K. Hartley, 9 October 1850.
HfLaswetu (Charles H.) Engineers’ and Mechanics’ pocket book, containing
United States and foreign weights and measures; tables of areas and circumferences of circles, circular segments, and zones of a circle; squares and cubes, square and cube roots;
lengths of circular and semielliptic arcs, and rules of arithme-
tic; mensuration of surfaces and solids; the mechanical powers,
geometry, trigonometry, ¢ gravity, strength of materials, waterwheels, hydraulics, hydrostatic S, pneumatics, statics, dynamics,
gunnery, heat, winding engines, tonnage, shot, shells, &e. ; steam and the steam engine ; combustion, water, cables, and anchors, fuel, air, guns, &c., &c. Miscellaneous notes and exercises ; &e., &e. ‘By C harles H. Haswell, Engineer in Chief U.S. Navy. Sixth Edition: 16mo 296 p—New York, Harper & Brothers, 82 Cliff Street, 1850; ee by Harper & Brothers, 20 May 1850.
Wawks (Francis L., D.D., LL, D.) The Monuments of Egypt: or, Keypt,
a witness for the Bible. By Francis L. Hawks; with illustrations. Second edition, re vised and enlarged : 8vol arge 298p New York, published by G. °P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850.
iTaypen (Chester) The Law and Practice of Justices of the Peace, in their
Mis—17.
miscellaneous duties and jurisdiction: to~ether with more than oD

<<<Page: 214>>>

i] 258
two-hundred practical forms, placed in connection with the subjects to which they relate. By Chester Hayden: 8vo 409p — Albany, published by Little & Co., 1850; deposited by Chester Hayden, 9 May 1850.
Heapiey (Rev. J. T.) The Miscellaneous Works of Rev. J. T. Headley. With a biographical sketch and portrait of the Author. In two volumes: 12mo Vol. 1, 8322p; Vol. 2, 319p—New York, published by John S. Taylor, 1849 ; deposited by John S. Taylor, 24 January 1850.
Miscellanies. By J. T. Headley. Authorized edition: 12mo 298p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by J. T. Headley, 25 March 1850.
Sketches and Rambles. By J. T. Headley : 12mo 241p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; deposited by J. T. Headley, 25 March 1850.
Sacred Scenes and Characters. By J. T. Headley. With origmal designs by Darley: 12mo 228p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by J. T. Headley, 3 January 1850.
Hentz (Caroline Lee) Linda; or, the young pilot of the Belle Creole. A tale of Southern Life. By Caroline Lee Hentz: 12mo 276p— Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 27 April 1850.
Hii (Benjamin L., M. D.) Lectures on the American Eclectic System of Surgery. By Benjamin L. Hill, M. D., &c., &c. With one hundred engravings, illustrating the practice of surgery: Svo 671p — Cincinnati, published by N. Phillips & Co., 1850; deposited by Benjamin L. Mall, M. D., 2 December, 1850.
Hints to Consumptives: 2 leaves 4to; deposited by S. Tousey, 16 December 1850.
History (The) of a Pocket Prayer Book, written by itself. Third edition, revised and enlarged: 12mo 262p — Philadelphia, R. E. Peterson, 1850; deposited by Benjamin Dorr, 12 August, 1850.
Hopkins (John Henry, D. D., Bishop of Vermont) The History of the Confessional. By John Henry Hopkins, D. D.: 12mo 3384p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 6 June 1850.
Horxins (Mark, D. D.) Faith, Philosophy, and Reason. A Baccalaureate Sermon, delivered at Williamstown, Mass., August 18, 1850. By Mark Hopkins, D. D.: 8vo 28p — Boston, press of T. R. Marvin, 1850; deposited by 'T. R. Marvin, 28 December, 1850.
HowaARpD (Benjamin C.) Reports of Cases argued and adjudged m the Supreme court of the United States, January term, 1%5). By Benjamin C. Howard. Vol 8, 8vo large: Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1850; deposited by Little & Brown, 11 June 1850.
Hows (John W. 8.) The Practical Elocutionist, and Academical Reader

<<<Page: 215>>>

rs 259 {> Ip]
and Speaker; designed for the use of Colleges; Academies and High: Schools. By John W. S. Hows: 12mo vol. 1., 430p; vol. 2 2, 444) — New York, published by G. P. Putnam ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
ImBriE (Charles K.) The Kingdom of God: A Discourse preached before the Synod of New Jersey, October 17, 1849. By Charles K. Imbrie: 12mo 147p — New York, ‘published by Franklin Knight, 1850; deposited by F. Knight, 16 March 1850.
IRVING (Washington) Mahomet and his Successors. By Washington Irving. In 2 volumes, vol. 1 only received : 12mo vol 1 3373p — New York, George P. Putnam, 155 Broadway ; another copy deposited 29 April, 1850; "deposited by Washington Irving, 20 August 1850.
The Adventures of Captain Bonneville, U.S. A., in the Rocky Mountais and the Far West; digested from his Journal and illustrated from various other sources. By Washington Irving. Author’s revised edition. Complete in one volume: 12mo 428p — New York, George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by Washington Irving, 20) August 1850.
Chronicle of the Conquest of Granada, from the MSS. of Fray Antonio Agapida. The W orks of Washington Irving. New edition, revised: 12mo 382p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by W. Irving, 20 August 1850.
The Crayon Reading Book ; comprising s2lections from the various writings of Washington Irving. Prepared fer the use of schools: 12mo 255p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by George P. Putnam, 20 August, 1850.
JEWETT (Sue W.) The Rose Bud. A Juvenile Keepsake. By Susan W. Jewett: 16mo 128p gly lay George S. Appleton ; deposited by George S. Appleton, 2 October, 1850.
Jounson (Samuel, LL. D.) The History of Rasselas, Prince of Abissinia. A Tale.
The Vision of Theodore.
The Fountains. A Fairy Tale. By Samuel Johnson, LL. D.. With remarks on the writings and character of Dr. Johnson. Embellished with illuminations and engravings in tint from original designs by Devereux: 8vo 230p — PhiladIphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 2 5 January 1850.
Jounson (Walter R.) The Coal Trade of British America, with researches on the characters and practical values of American and F oreign Coals. By Walter R. Johnson: 8vo 179p—W ashington,

<<<Page: 216>>>

260 “
published by Taylor & Maury, 1850; deposited by Walter R. Johnson, 18 January, 1850.
Jones (Joel) A Syllabus of the Law of Land Office Titles in Pennsylvania. By Joel Jones: 12mo 264p — Philadelphia, published by Henry Perkins, 1850; deposited by Henry Perkins, 25 January 1850.
Jones (J. Pringle) Pennsylvania State Reports, containing cases adjudged in the Supreme Court during part of May Term, July Term, and part of September Term, 1849, vol. 11. By J. Pringle Jones, President of the Third Judicial District: Svo 566p — Philadelphia, T. & J. W. Johnson, publishers, 1850; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson, 13 November 1850.
Kamanyo. Written for the American Sunday School Union: 12mo 90p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850.
KimpaLi (Richard B.) Saint Leger: or, The Threads of Life. By Richard B. Kimball; third edition: 12mo ! 3834p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
Kine (The) of the Hurons. By the Author of “ The First of the Knickerbockers,’’ &c.: 12mo 319p — New York, par lished by G. P, Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
Kkinespury (C. P.) An Elementary Treatise on Artillery and Infantry, adapted to the service of the United States; designed for the use of Cadets of the United States Military Academy, and for Officers of the Independent Companies of Volunteers and Militia. By C. P. Kingsbury: 12mo 203p— New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
KinesLEY (George) The Sacred Harmonist: A New Collection of Church Music. Edited by George Kingsley: 8vo long — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1 February 1850.
KirkBrIpE (Stacy B., a Kirkbride’s New Jersey Business Directory, General Register and Advertising Medium, contaming a rey ised Map of the State, the Constitution of the United States, and State of New Jersey; Officers of Government of the United States and New Jersey. . . . . Collectors of Customs, Custom House rates of Gold, United States and Foreign rates of Postagesi;.-./. /c;jand the various Miscellaneous ‘Depart ments contributing to the prosperity and business wealth of the State. Carefully collected, arranged, and published by Stacy B. Kirkbride, Jr., for 1850 and 1851. ‘To be revised and published in 1852: 8vo 348p—Trenton, N. J., 1850; deposited by Stacy B. Kirkbride, Jr., 8 September 1850.
Kipster (Louis F.) Analecta Anglo-Saxonica. Selections in Prose and Verse, from the Anglo-Saxon Literature: with an Introductory Ethnological Essay, and Notes, Critical and Explanatory. By Louis F. Klipstein’: 2 vols. 12mo, vol 1, 4830p, vol 2 444p —

<<<Page: 217>>>

261 Cag
New York, George P. Putnam, 155 Broadway, 1849; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
LamartineE (Alphonse de) The Past, Present and Future of the Republic. Translated from the French of Alphonse de Lamartine: 12mo 163p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 : deposited by Harper & Brothers, 10 June 1850.
Larrasee (William C., A. M.) Lectures on the Scientific evidence’ of Natural and Revealed Religion. By William C. Larrabee, A. M. Edited by Rev. B.F. Teffit, D. D.: 12mo 395p — Cincinnati, published by Swormsted & Power, 1850; deposited by Swormstedt & Power, 24 May 1850.
Lanman (Charles) Haw-ho-noo; or, Records of a Tourist. By Charles Lanman, author of ‘ Letters from the Alleghany Mountains”? : 12mo 266p — Philadelphia, published by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 1850; deposited by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 28 September 1550.
Lestik (Miss) Miss Leslie’s Lady’s New Receipt-Book ; a useful guide for large or small famihes, containing directions for cooking, preserving, pickling, &c., &c. Third edition, enlarged, with onehundred and twenty additional receipts for preparing farina, Indian meal, fancy tea cake, marmalades, &c. ; being a sequel to her “Complete Cookery”: 12mo 436p — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 27 April 1850.
Lester (C. Edwards) The Gallery of Illustrious Americans. Containing the portraits and biographical sketches of twenty-four of the most eminent citizens of the American republic, since the death of Washington. From daguerreotypes by Brady. Engraved by D’ Avignon ; C. Edwards Lester, Editor.  4dto — New York, M. B. Brady, F. D’ Avignon, C. Edwards Lester, 1850; deposited by Brady, D’ Avignon & Co., 15 February, 1850.
Lewis (Mrs. S. Anna) Child of the Sea, and other Poems. By Mrs. S. Anna Lewis: 12mo 179p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
Licuts and Shadows of Domestic Life, and other Stories. By the Author of “Rose and her Lamb,” &c.: 16mo 267p — Boston, published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850; deposited by Ticknor, Reed & Felds, 27 May 1850.
Lirrte Annie’s Speller; prettily illustrated: 16mo 66p— Philadelphia, Geo. S. Appleton; deposited by Geo. S. Appleton, 2 October 1850.
Annie’s A. B. C. Showing the use and sounds of the letters, in words of one syllable: 16mo— Philadelphia, Geo. 8. Appleton, 1851; deposited by Geo. S. Appleton, 2 October 1850.
Locxe Amsden, or, The Schoolmaster. A Tale; by the Author of “ May Martin,” &c., Second edition: 12mo 231p—Boston, published by Benjamin B. Mussey, & Co., 1850; deposited by D. P. Thompson, 25 February 1850.
Lonery Hours. A Text Book of Knitting, by an American Lady. In

<<<Page: 218>>>

ca 262
two parts. Containing twenty-seven patterns and directions for the most useful and fashionable articles of Knittmg now in use. Adapted to American Customs: 16mo 72p— Philadelphia, E. Gaskill, 1850; deposited by Edward Gaskill, 51 October 1850.
LonereLLow (Henry Wadsworth) The Seaside and the Fireside. By Henry
Wadsworth Longfellow : 16mo 141p — Boston, pubhshed by ° Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 18503; deposited by H. W. Longfellow, 8 January 1850.
Loomis (Elias) The recent Progress of Astronomy ; especially in the United States. By Elias Loomis: 8vo 257p— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 21 September, 1850.
The Recent Progress of Astronomy; especially in the United States. By Ehas Loomis: 12mo 256p— New York, pubhshed by Harper & Brothers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 19 October, 1850.
Lorp (John, A. M.) A modern History from the time of Luther to the Fall of Napoleon. For the use of schools and colleges. By
John Lord, A. M.: 8vo 544p—Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthw ait & Co., 1849; deposited by John Lord, OL January 1850.
Lorenette (The) or, Studies of the Town, by an Opera-goer; Nos. 1 and 2: 12mo— New York, published by Henry Kernot, 1850; deposited by E. O. Jenkins, 15 August 1850.
Lossine (Benson J.) Pictorial Field Book of the Revolution: or, Hlustrations by Pen and Pencil, of the History, Scenery, Biography, Relics and Traditions of the War for Independence. By Benson J. Lossmg. With 600 Engravings on Wood, by Lossing and eee “chiefly from original Sketches by the Author. (Nos. 1, 2, a & 4, received). ” Roy al 8vo — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 20 June 1850. No 4, 24 July.
Seventzen Hundred and Seventy-Six: or, The War of Independence ; a History of the Anglo-Americans, from the period of the Union of the Colonies against the French, to the Inaugaration of Washington, the first President of the “United States of America. Illustrated by numerous engravings of plans of battles, prominent events, interesting localities, and portraits of distinguished men of the period. By Benson J. Lossing. New Edition : 8vo 510p— New York, published by Edward Walker, 1850; deposited by Edward Walker, 28 January, 1850.
Lyncu (W. F., U.S. N.) Narrative of the United States Expedition to the River Jordan and the Dead Sea. By W. F. Lynch, U.S. N., Commander of the Expedition. With a Map from accurate Surveys. A new and condensed edition: 12mo 332p— Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1850; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 29 Apr il 1850.
Lynponton (Sir James) Horses made sound by the Horse-Owner’s Secret. Being a new and certain method for the speedy cure of Horses.

<<<Page: 219>>>

By Sir James Lyndonton ; pamphlet: 16mo 8p — New York, Printed for the Proprietor, 1850; deposited by S. Towsey, 16 December, 1850. Lyons (T. L.) A new Grammar of the English Language familiarly explained, and adapted to the use of schools and } private students. ey T. L. Lyons: 12mo 196p— Cincinnati, published by H. S. & J. Applegate, 1850; deposited by T. ii Lyons, 2 August 1850.
M’Cuiyrocx (John, D. D.) A Second Book in Greek ; containing Syntax, with reading lessons in Prose; Prosody and the Dialects, with reading lessons in Verse, forming a sufficient Greek Reader, with a Vocabulary. By John M’Clintock : 12mo347p — New York, Harper & Bites 1850; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 15 July, 1850.
MacponaLp, or, the Great Mistake. A Story of Real Life: 12mo 54p— Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August, 1850.
M’Intire (James, M. D.) A new Treatise on Astronomy, and the use of the Globes, in two parts; containing astronomical and other definitions ; motions and positions of the sun, moon and planets ; Kepler’s Laws and the theory of gravitation; refraction, twilight and parallax ; connections, periods, distances, phenomena, and magnitudes of the heavy enly bodies composing the solar system, Ke. Also, an extensive collection of the most’ useful problems on the globes, illustrated by a suitable’variety of examples, &c. Designed for the use of high schools and academies. By James NP Intire, M. D.: 12mo 3826p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by A. 8. Barnes & Co., 1 February, 1850.
Mann (Horace.) A Few Thoughts for a Young Man: a Lecture delivered before the Boston Mercantile Library Association, on its twentyninth anniversary. By Horace Mann: 16mo 84p— Boston, published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850‘ deposited by Horace Mann, 27 February, 1850.
Mansriexp (Edward D.) American Education, its Principles and Elements. Dedicated to the Teachers of the United States. By Edward . Mansfield: Svo 330p— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co., 5 December, L850.
Manuva of Commercial Correspondence, English and French; or, selection of commercial phrases, taken from a number of letters, accounts, catalogues, prices current, and other papers. By a merchant. [With two titles, one as aboake the other the same in French. 12mo 124p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850.
Marcu (Charles W.) Reminiscences of te ess. By Charles W. March. Second edition: 12mo 295p— Ne ~w York, Baker & Seribner deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October, 1850.
Marquart (John) United States Key for mathematical self-instruction on the mechanical sliding rule, commonly called the carpenter’s

<<<Page: 220>>>

[ da 264.
rule. By John Marquart: 16mo 66p — Philadelphia, published by C. Sherman, 1850; deposited by John Marquart, 6 May, 1850.
Marvet, Ik [ Pseudo. for pend and The Battle Summer ; being transcripts from personal o Beery ions in Paris, during the year 1848. By Ik Marvel: 12mo 289p—New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; denoted by Baker & Scribner, 3 January, 1850.
Mason (Lowell) The New Carmina Sacra; or, Boston Collection of Church Music. Comprismg the most popular psalm and hymn tunes in general use, together with a great variety of new tunes, chants, sentences, ‘notetts, and anthems ; ; principally by distinguished European composers: the whole being one of the most complete collections of music for choirs, congregations, singing schools, and societies, extant. By Lowell Mason : 8vo long, 380p — Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Melvin Lord, 24 September, 1850.
Maroon (Charles H.) Analytic Series, No.2. Common arithmetic upon the analytic method of instruction ; also, the principles of cancellation, and other modern improvements. The whole made simple and easy by numerous practical examples. Designed for the use of schools. By Charles H. Mattoon: 12mo 3S88p — steam press of S. Medary : deposited by Charles H. Mattoon
25 April 1850.
May (Caroline) Treasured Thoughts from favourite Authors, collected and arranged by Caroline May: 12mo 3536p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 18 December 1850.
Mayo (Joseph, Esq.) A Guide to Magistrates ; with practical forms for the discharge of their duties out of court. To which are added, precedents, | for the use of prosecutors, sheriffs, coroners, constables, escheators, clerks, &c¢ ; adapted to the new code of Virginia ; by Joseph Mayo, Esq.: Svo large : 704p— Richmond, published by R. I. Smith, for the author, 1849 deposited by Joseph Mayo, Esq., 10 September 1850.
Mayo (William Starbuck, M. D.,) The Berber ; or, the Mountaineer of the Atlas, A tale of Morocco. By William Starbuck Mayo, M. D., author of Kaloolah, &c.: 12mo 454p — New York, George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by Wilham Starbuck Mayo, 20 August 1850.
Kaloolah; or, Journeyings to the Djébel Kumri. An autobiography of Jonathan Romer. Edited by W. S. Mayo; third edition: 12mo 514p— New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by W. 8S. Mayo, 29 April 1850.
Meies (Charles D.) Woman; her diseases and remedies. A series of letters to his class. By Charles D. Meigs, M.D., &c. Second edition, revised and enlarged : Svo 690p — Philadelphia, Lea & Blanchard, 1851; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 16 December 1850.
Observations on certain of the diseases of young children.
By Charles D. Meigs, M. D., &c.: Svo 215p — Philadelphia,

<<<Page: 221>>>

265 ry
Lea & Blanchard, 1850; deposited by Charles D. Meigs, 16 December 1850.
Mies (George D.) Memoir of Ellen May Woodward. By the Reverend George D. Miles: 12mo — Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 31 July 1850.
Mixes (Josiah) Miles’ United States Spelling Book, comprising the rudiments of the English Language, the Alphabet , and a series of spelling lessons, in five parts, ~ containing oyer fifteen thousand of the most common English words, spelled and pronounced in accordance with the best authenticated usage ; also, an extensive pronouncing list of American and Foreign Geographical names: to which is appended a list of about five hundred words of various orthography, and a brief synopsis of words oy pronounced by different authors. By Josiah Miles: 12mo 158p — New York, published by Cornish, Lamport & Co., 1850; deposited by Josiah Miles, 19 August 1850. Another copy, stereotype edition, deposited 20 November 1850.
Mitton, (John) The Paradise Lost. By John Milton. With Notes, Explanatory and Critical. Edited by Rev. James Robert Boyd: 12mo 542p — New York, Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 1850.
Mircue tz (S. Augustus) Mitchell’s Biblical and Sabbath School Geography, designed for instruction in Sabbath Schools and Bible classes: comprising a geographical description of Palestine or the Holy Land ; with the other regions mentioned in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament. Illustrated with colored Maps and Wood Cut engravings. By S. Augustus Mitchell: 12mo 122p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1849; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Con 7 March 1850.
Mitchell’s Primary Geography. An Easy Introduction to the Study of Geography ; ; designed for the instruction of children in schools and families. Hlustrated ae 120 Engravings and 14 Maps. By S. Augustus Mitchell; 2d Revised Edition. 16mo 176p— Philadelphia, published by Thomas; Cowperthwait & Co; deposited by S. Augustus Mitchell, 7 March 1850.
Mitchell’s Intermediate or Sec ondary Geography. A System of Modern Geography, comprising a description of the present state of the world, and its five great divisions, America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Oceanica, with their several Empires, Kingdoms, States, Territories, &e. Illustrated by 40 Maps, and numerous wood-cut engravings. Designed for the instruction of youth in schools and families. By 'S. Augustus Mitchell: 4dto. 80p.— Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co, 1850; deposited by S. Augustus Mitchell, 7 March 1850.
Mitchell’s School Geography. Third Revised Edition. A System of Modern Geography, comprising a description of the present state of the World, and its five great divisions, America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Oceanica, with their several

<<<Page: 222>>>

pai 266
Empires, Kingdoms, States, Territories, etc. Embellished by numerous engravings. Adapted to the capacity of Youth. Illustrated by an atlas of 28 maps, drawn and engraved to accompany the work. By S. Augustus Mitchell: P2mo 3386p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1850; deposited by S. Augustus Mitchell, 7 March 1850.
Mircuett (Thomas D., A. M., M. D.,) Materia Medica and Therapeutics : with ample illustrations of practice in all the departments of Medical science, and very copious notices of Toxicology. Suited to the wants of Medical students and Practitioners. By Thomas D. Mitchell, A. M., M. D., &c.: 8vo large, 738p — Philadelphia, Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 1850; deposited by Thomas D. Mitchell, 19 September 1850. ;
Moors (Rey. Henry D.) The Winter Bloom. With nine brilliant illuminanations in oil colors. Edited by Rev. Henry D. Moore: 8vo 240p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 15 November 1850.
Morey (Cornell) Explanations of the principles of Arithmetic on a new plan. By Cornell Morey ; 12mo 94p— Rochester, N. Y., published by John Greaves, 1850 ; deposited by Cornell Morey, 10 September 1850.
Mornine Watcu: (The) A Narrative. : 12mo 175p — published for the author, by G. P. Putnam, 155 Broadway, New York, 1850; deposited bysGaiRs Putnam, 16 August 1850.
Moses (Thomas P.) A sketch of the life of Thomas P. Moses, Teacher of music, and also, some remarks upon the doings of Pharisees, Hypocrites, and Defamers of Character; with the addition of a few short poems; all written by himself, and respectfully inscribed to his friends, with a free permission for all enemies to read, if they think it would not depress their spirits and injure their health. Vol 1: 12mo 96p — Portsmouth, N. H., printed by Thomas J. Whittem, 1850; deposited by Thomas P. Moses, 26 March 1850.
Murr (John) Muir’s American Accountant, mercantile manual, and instrctor, comprising a concise method of book-keeping, useful forms for bills, receipts, orders, notes, drafts, checks, letters, invoices, accounts current, sales, &c. With instructive rules, remarks, maxims, and laws pertaining to monetary affairs. By John
Muir: Alexandria, Va., printed at the Alexandria Gazette Office, 1850 ; deposited by John Muir, 15 November, 1850.
Muir’s Amana Grammar, being a brief, practical, perspicuous and unique exposition of the rudiments of the English language, compiled mainly for the use of tyros ; also, comprising a short reference to punctuation, capital letters, figures of ep ech, composition, violations of grammar, &c. By John Muir: 12mo 71p — Alexandria, printed at the Alexandria Gazette Office, 1850 ; deposited 28 March 1850.
My Little Primer; to teach a few words and the alphabet: 16mo 386p —

<<<Page: 223>>>

Boston, published by 'T. R. Marvin, 1850; deposited by F. Bumstead, 26 November, 1850.
Natronat Cook Book (The) By a Lady of Philadelphia, a practical housewife : 12mo — Philadelphia, published by Robert E. Peterson, 1850; deposited by Robert E. Peterson, 12 August 1850.
New North American Spelling Book (The) designed for elementary instuction in schools. Being an improvement upon all others : 12mo 120p — Hogan & Thompson, 1851; deposited by Hooan & Thompson, 13 November, 1850.
Newton (Sereno) Engineers’, Millwrights’, and Machinists’ Tables; containing a table of the proportional radii of wheels, from ten to four hundred teeth ; together with other tables and rules, applicable to the construction of mill work and other machinery ; also, rules for making wheel patterns, their proportions, &c. By Sereno Newton; sixth edition: 8vyo 82p— New York, George Carrall, 1850; deposited by George Carrall, 20 July 1850.
Nicnotson (George W. 8S.) Poems of the Heart. By George W. S. Nicholson: 12mo 120p — Philadelphia, George S. Appleton, 1850; deposited by George S. Appleton, 2 October 1850.
NortTHERN Farmers’ Almanac (The) 1851. Edited by Solon Robinson, and published by A. B. Allen & Co., New York Agricultural Warehouse, 189 and 191 Water Street. Calculated for the Meridian of New York City, and is suited to all Northern and Western States; deposited by A. B. Allen & Co., 17 September 1850.
Norvet Hastings; or, The Frigate in the Offing. A Nautical Tale of the War of 1512. By a distinguished Novelist. Complete in one Volume: 8vo 143p— Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 10 August 1850.
(Op) Farmer’s Almanack (The) No.59; calculated on a new and improved plan: for the year of our Lord, 1851 ; being third after Bissex~ tile or leap year, and (until July 4) 75th of American Independence. Fitted for the city of Boston, but will answer for all the New England States ; containing, besides the large number of astronomical calculations, and the Farmer’s Calendar for every month in the year, as great a variety as any other Almanack of new, useful, and entertaining matter. Established in 1793, by Robert B. Thomas. Boston, published by Jenks, Palmer & Co.; deposited by J. H. Jenks and G. W. Palmer, 18 October, 1850.
(Same.) Published by Sanborn & Carter, Portland, Me. ; deposited by J. H. Jenks and G. W. Palmer, 18 October, 1850.
Ouyey (J., A. M.) A Practical System of Modern Geography ; or, a view of the present state of the world, simplified and adapted to the capacity of youth, containing numerous tables, exhibiting the divisions, settlement, population, extent, lakes, canals, and the various institutions of the United States and Europe, the different forms of government and prevailing religions. Embellished with numerous engravings of manners, customs, &c.

<<<Page: 224>>>

Revised and illustrated by a new and enlarged Atlas. By J. Olney, A. M.: sixty-third edition, 12mo 2096p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1850; deposited 6 June, 1850.
Oruer Side: (The,) or, Notes for the History of the War between Mexico and the United States ; written in Mexico. Translated from the Spanish, and edited, with notes, by Albert C. Ramsey. With portraits of distinguished officers, plans of battles, &c.: 12mo 458p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1850 ; deposited by J. Wiley, 29 January, 1850.
Orr (James Cramer.) The Truth; according to and with the Word. By James Cramer Ott: pamphlet, Svo 128p— city of Albany, and state of New York, A. D., 1850: deposited by James Cramer Ott, 25 November, 1850.
Overman (Frederick ) The Manufacture of Iron, in all its various branches, including a description of wood-cutting, coal-digging, and the burning of charcoal and coke ; the digging and roasting of ironore, the building and management of Blast furnaces, working by
charcoal, cokes or anthracite ; the refining of iron, and the conversion of the crude into wrought i iron, by charcoal forges and puddling furnaces ; also a description of forge-hammers, rollingmills, blast machines, hot blast, &c. &c. ‘To which is added an essay on the manufacture of steel. By Frederick Overman, mining engineer; with 150 wood engravings, executed by W. B. Gihon: 8vo large, 492p — Philadelphia, published by Henry @. Baird, successor to E. L. Carey, 1850; deposited by Henry C. Baird, 4 January, 1850.
Painter, Gilder and Varnisher’s Companion (The); containing rules and regulations in every thing relating to the arts of painting, gilding, varnishing and glass staining ; ; numerous useful and. yalnable receipts ; “tests for the detection of adulterations in oils, colours, &c.; and a statement of the diseases and accidents to which painters, gilders and varnishers are peculiarly lable, with the simplest and best methods of precaution and remedy: 12mo — Philadelphia, published by H. C. Baird, 1850; deposited by H. C. Baird, 6 August, 1850.
Parker (Richard G.) Parker’s Conversations. Juvenile Philosophy ;_ or, philosophy in familiar conversations ; defence to teach young
children to think. By Richard G. Parker: 16mo 150p— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., "1850; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co., 20 April, 1850.
Parerson (John, A. M.) The Calculus of Operations. By John Paterson, A.M.: 8vo 184p— Albany, published by Gray & Sprague, 1850; deposited by J. Paterson, 25 November 1850.
Parurinper. The Pathfinder Railway Guide for the New England States ; containing official Time-Tables of the Railway Companies, with stations, distances, fares, &c., and other important information respecting Railway, Steamboat and Stage Routes, throughout New England. Accompanied by a complete Railway Map. Nos. 9-19 ; February—December, 1850. Pub

<<<Page: 225>>>

269 er
lished on the First Monday in every month, under authority and direction of the New England Peoria of Railroad Superintendents. A. E, Newton, Editor — Boston: Snow & Wilder, publishers ; deposited, monthly, by George kK. Snow & Silas W. Wilder.
Presses by the Sea-Shore; or, Lizzie’s First Gleanings. By a Father: 16mo 126p — Philadelphia, Geo. S. Appleton, 1851; deposited by Geo. S. Appleton, 2 October L850.
Perkins (George R.) Perkins Series. A Primary Arithmetic, combining Mental with written Exercises ; Introductory to the Elementary Arithmetic. By Geo. R. Perkins, A.M.: [6mo 160p — Hartford, published by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1850; deposited by George R. Perkins, 21 January 1350.
PuILurrs (Willard) Propositions concerning Protection and Free Trade. By Willard Phillips: 12mo 233p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1850; deposited by W. Phillips, 10 June 1850.
Puriureps (S. March, Esq.) A treatise on the Law of Evidence, Sixth American, from the ninth London edition, with considerable alterations and additions. By S. March Phillipps, Esq.; in three volumes. With notes to the first and second volumes. By Esek Cowen, assisted by Nicholas Hill, Jr., [and with notes to the third volume by a counsellor at law ,| with additional notes and references to the English and American cases, to the present time, by J. Marsden Van Cott. Third edition : 8volarge, vol 1, 530p; vol 2, 647p; vol 3, 452p-— New York, published by Pens: Gould & Co., at by Gould, Banks & Gould, Albany, 1849; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co.,, 1 February,
» 1850. [The notes to volumes one and two are separately
printed, with distinct title page and pagination, in tw : parts: part one, notes to vol 1, 704p; part two, notes to vol. 2, 967p. The notes to vol. 5, are published in connection with the volume without a distinct title, but separately paged — the index is . paged continuously ati the notes, and the notes and index to vol 3, form 871 pages. The whole work (as bound,) makes five volumes. |
Prerpont (Rev. John) Pierpont’s Second Reader. The Young Reader; to follow ** The Little Learner ;”? or, Rudiments of Reading. By John Pierpont. Revised, enlarged and improved: 16mo 192p — New York, published by George F. Cooledge & Brother, 1850 ; deposited by John Pierpont, ¢ 21 June 1850.
Piterim’s Progress (The) for the Young: with illustrations: 16mo 160p — Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 31 July 1850.
Pryneo (T. S., M. D.,) Eclectic Educational Series. Pinneo’s Analytical Grammar of the English language, designed for schools. By T. S. Pinneo. Stereotype edition: 8vo 216p— Cincinnati, published by W. B. Smith & Co., 1850; deposited by W. B. Smith, 24 June 1850.
Pox (Edgar Allan) The works of the late Edgar A. Poe: with notices of his life and genius. By N. P. Willis, J. R. Lowell, and R. W.

<<<Page: 226>>>

peu 270
Griswold. In two volumes. Vol, 1, Tales. Vol. 2, Poems and Miscellanies: 12mo vol 1, 4883p; vol 2, 495p — New York, published by J. S. Redfield, 1850; deposited by J. S. Redfield, 21 January 1850.
Practicat Writine Boox (The) In three parts. By an Old Teacher. Nos. 1, 2: published by Brown & Parsons, Hartford; deposited by F. A. Brown, 21 December 1850.
Pracay (Johann) The Hungarian Revolution. Outlines of the prominent circumstances, attending the Hungarian struggle for freedom ; with brief biographies, sketches of leading statesmen and generals who took part mit. By Johann Pragay: 12mo 176p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1550; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850.
Price (Joseph M.) Interest Tables, at 5, 6 & 7 per cent. per annum ; each rate exhibiting the interest on all sums from one dollar to ten thousand dollars, from one to three hundred and sixty-five days; computed at three hundred and sixty days per annum, three hundred and sixty-five per annum, and by months and days. By Joseph M. Price; folio 182p— New York, published by W. W. Rose, 1850; deposited by Joseph M. Price, 13 May 1850.
ProcramMME of Mademoiselle Jenny Lind’s Concert, with the words of the airs in Italian, German, Swedish, and English; pamphlet: Svo — deposited by William Van Norden & Frank Leslie, 17 September 1850.
Puxsirer (John S.) Phonal Depot. By John S. Pulsifer; deposited by John S. Pulsifer, 23 August 1850.
Five printed sheets containing a new alphabet, called the Aubaot. By John S. Pulsifer ; deposited by John S. Pulsifer. |
Putnam (John Phelps) United States Digest; being a Digest of Decisions of the Courts of Common Law, Equity and Admiralty in the United States. By John Phelps Putnam of the Boston Bar ; Vol. 3, Annual Digest for 1849: 8vo large, 581p — Boston, Little & Brown, 1850; deposited by Little & Brown, 18 July 1850.
Rawson (Rey. James, A. M.) A Dictionary of Synonyimical Terms of the English Language. By Rey. James Rawson, A. M: 12mo 216p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 26 March 1850.
Reep (Stephen, Esq., A. M., &c.) Points and Arguments on the great Prophetic Periods, &c., &c., maintaining their termination in 1550.
By Stephen Reed, Esq., A. M., &c., Counsellor at Law: 8vo

<<<Page: 227>>>

271 Pha:
26p — New York: Tribune Office, 1850 ; deposited by S. Reed, 2 August, 1850.
Reese (John J., M. D.) The American Medical Formulary: based upon the United States and British Pharmacopeeias. Including also numerous Standard Formule, derived from American and European Authorities. Together with the medical properties and uses of medicines; poisons, their antidotes; tests, &c. De-
signed for the medical and Pharmaceutical Student. By John
J. Reese, M. D.: 12mo 357p— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 26 March 1850.
RuyMes for the Nursery. By the Authors of ‘ Original Poems.’”’ A new Illustrated Edition : 16mo 64p — Philadelphia, Geo. S. Appleton, 164 Chestnat Street, 1851; deposited by Geo. S. Appleton, 2 October 1850.
Ricuarps (William C.) The Shakspeare Calendar ; or, Wit and Wisdom for every day in the year. Edited by W. C. Richards: 16mo 11Sp — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
Ricuarpson (Major) The Monk Knight of St. John: a tale of the Crusades. By Major Richardson, Knight of St. Ferdinand, &c.: Svo 192p — New York, Dewitt & Davenport, Tribune build: ings, 1850; deposited by Dewitt & Davenport, 28 September 1850.
Rickey (Anna S.) Forest Flowers of the West. By Anna S. Rickey: 12mo 1538p — Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1851 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 18 December 1850.
Ropinson Crusor’s Farmyard; designed to accompany the Game of Natural History for children: 16mo 228p— New York, published by GaP: Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850.
Rosiyson (E.) Legal Forms for the transaction of business, adapted to the use of all men, whether in public or private life; also, a set of Tax and Interest Tables, together with a short system of Book keeping. Compiled by E. Robinson. Twelfth edition, revised, pamphlet, A8p — Greencastle, published by E. Robinson, 1850 : deposited by E. Robinson, 10 August 1850.
Rosinson (H. N.) An Elementary Treatise on Algebra, designed as first Jessons in that science. By H. N. RGuuison: Second edition : 12mo — Cincinnati, J. Ernst, 1850 ; deposited by H. N. Robinson, 18 July 1850.
Elements of Geometry, plane and spherical Trigonometry, and Conic sections. By H. N. Robinson: S8vo 5385p — Cincinnati, published by Jacob Ernst, 1850; deposited by H. N. Robinson, 14 June 1850.
Roto learning to Talk. A new edition, revised by the Author: 12mo 1795p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 Nov. .» 1850.
Roto learning to Read. A new edition, revised by the Author: 12mo

<<<Page: 228>>>

hela, 272
180p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 : deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 Nov., 1850.
Rotio at Play. A new edition, revised by the wena 12mo 191p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 Noy., 1850.
Roto at Work. A new edition, revised by the acho 12mo 191p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 Noy., 1850.
Routxo at School. A new edition, ated by the Author — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Oo & Thompson, 13 Nov ember, 1850.
Roxxo’s Vacation. A new edition, revised by the Author: 12mo 191p— Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850; depcsited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 Nov ember, 1850.
Rouxo’s Correspondence. A new edition, revised by ae Author: 12mo 189p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 19 Nov ember, 1850.
Rotxo’s, Experiments. A new edition, revised by the Author: 12mo 180p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 19 November, 1850.
Rotio’s Museum. <A new Giviico, revised by the Author: 12mo 187p— Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 19 Nov ember, 1850.
Routo’s Travels. A new edition, revised by the Author: 12mo 189p— Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 19 November, 1850.
Rosa’s Childhood; or, the Influence of Principle. By the author of ‘“‘ Home Life’’: 16mo 107p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August, 1850.
Rurryer (Henry.) The Fathers of the Desert; or, an account of the origin and practice of Monkery among Heathen Nations; its passage into the Church; and some wonderful stories of the Fathers, concerning the Primitive Monks and Hes By Henry Ruffner: 2 Vols. ., 12mo — Vol. 1, 5302p, Vol. 2 ion New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October, 1850.
Rurat Hours. By a Lady: 12mo 521p — New York, George P. Putnam, 153 Broadway, 1850; deposited by J. Fennimore Cooper, 20 August, 1850.
SamvtrnE (H. B.) Woman’s Whims; or, The Female Barometer. Translated from the French of H. B. Saintine, by Fayette Robinson : 12mo 98p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 25 April 1550.
SanpEAn (Jules) Money Bags and Titles; a Hit at the Follies of the Age. Translated from the French of Jules Sandean by Leonard Myers: 12mo 216p— Philadelphia, published by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 1850; deposited by L. Myers, 6 May 1850.

<<<Page: 229>>>

Sanprorp (Hon. Lewis H.) Reports of Cases argued and determined in the Court ot Chancery of the State of New York, before the Hon. Lewis H. Sandford, late Vice-Chancellor of the First Circuit. Vol. 4: 8vo large S8LOp— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1850; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co., 8 January 1850.
Scurerver (Henry) and Srewarr (Franklin, M. D.) The American Guager, simplified and complete. Designed for the use of every Merchant in the country, as well as in large cities, and as useful as scales or yard sticks. By Henry Schreiner, of Reading, Pennsylvyania, and Franklin Stewart, M. D., of Philadelphia : 12mo 128p — Philadelphia, printed by W. S. Young, 1850; deposited by Schreiner & Stewart, 12 April 1850.
Scuwarz (Rabbi Joseph) A descriptive Geography and brief historical Sketch of Palestine. By Rabbi Joseph Schwarz, for sixteen years a resident in the Holy Land. ‘Translated by Isaac Leeser, one of the editors of the new edition of the Hebrew Bible, &c. Illustrated with maps and numerous engravings : 8vo 518p — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 561012mo 3583p — Boston, published by John P. Jewett, ‘1850; deposited by JeP. Jewett, 14 March 1850.
Sears (Barnas, D. D.) The Life of Luther; with special reference to its earlier periods and the opening scenes of the Reformation. By Barnas Sears, D. D.: 12mo 528p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union : deposited by the American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850.
Seawortuy (Gregory) Nag’s Head; or, two months among “ the Bankers.’’ A story of sea-shore life and manners. By Gregory Seaworthy : 12mo L80p — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 15 August 1850.
Sepeewick (C. M.) Clarence ; or, a tale of our own times. By the author of “‘ Hope Leslie,’ &c., : author’s revised edition, complete in one volume: I2mo 51! Sp — New York, published by G. P. Putnam; deposited by C. M. Sedgewick, 29 April 1850.
Seron (T.) Mosaique Francaise : ou Choix de Sujets anecdotiques, historiques, littéraires et scientifiques: tirés pour la plupart d’ Auteurs Modernes:: par IT’. Séron: 12mo 236p — Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, L November 1850. .
Seymour (E. 8.) Sketches of Minnesota, the New England of the West. With incidents of travel in that territory during the summer of 1849. In two parts. By E. 8. Seymour. With a map: 12mo
281p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 7 March 1850.
Mis.—18.

<<<Page: 230>>>

itp} 274 Suerwoop (Henry Hall, M. D.) The Magnetic Organization of the Human
System, and its application to the cure of chronic diseases. By Henry Hall Sherwood. Abridged from his larger works, by H. H. Sherwood’s successors, 102 Chambers street, New York, 1849: 8vo pamphlet, 16p— New York, printed at the steam printing office ; deposited by William Larned, 15 March 1850,
Manual for Magnetizing, with the vibrating, Magnetie Machine, and for the magnetic duodynamic treatment of disease ; with a brief synopsis of Animal Magnetism, Homeopathy and Allopathy, with anatomical and other illustrations. By H. H. Sherwood, M.D.; Fourteenth edition ; Revised by H. H. Sherwood’s successors, 102 Chambers street, New York : 16mo 372p — New York, published by Fowlers & Wells, 1850; deposited by William Larned, 15 March 1850.
The Motive power of the Human System, with the Duodynamic symptoms and treatment of Chronic diseases. By H. H. Sherwood, M.D. Revised by H. H. Sherwood’s successor, William Larned ; Sixteenth edition, enlarged x 8vo 206p — New York, published by the proprietor, 1850 ; deposited by William Larned, 15 March 1850.
Sicourney (Mrs. L. H.) Poems for the Sea. By Mrs. L. H. Sigourney « 12mo 152p — Hartford, published by H. S. Parsons & Co., 1850; deposited by H. S. Parsons & Co., 6 May 1850.
Whisper toa Bride. By Mrs. L. H. Sigourney: i6mo 48p — Hartford, published by H. S. Parsons & Co., 1850;
deposited by H. 8. Parsons & Co., 6 May 1850. Sums (W. Gilmore, Esq.) The Lily and the Totem; or, the Huguenots in Florida. <A series of Sketches, picturesque and historical, of the Colonies of Coligni, in North America, 1562-1570. By the author of ‘The Yemassee,’’ ‘‘ Life of Marion,”’ ‘ Life of Bayard,” &c. Second edition: Svo 470p — New York, Baker & Scribner ; deposited by William Gilmore
Simms, Esq., 9 October, 1850.
The Life of Nathaniel Green, Major General in the Army of the Revolution. Edited by W. Gilmore Simms, Esq.: 12mo 393p— New York, published by Geo. T. Cooledze & Bro.; deposited by G. 'T. Cooledge & Bro., 21 March 1850.
Stroman (Jane) The Melodist. Selected gems from celebrated composers, arranged for the use of female seminaries. In one, two, three, and four parts, with an accompaniment for the piano forte. By Jane Sloman. The pieces contained in this work may all be sung as solos-—the melody being always complete in the first — part, and the other parts ad. lib.: oblong, 4to 112p— New York, published by William Hall & Son. : deposited by William Hall & Son, 1 March 1850.
Smepes (W. C.) and Marsnaty (T. A.) Reports of cases, argued and de= | termined in the High Court of Errors and Appeals for the State of Mississippi. By W.C. Smedes & T. A. Marshall, of Vicks| burg ; Reporters to the State: 8vo large, 851p — Boston, pub

<<<Page: 231>>>

lished by Charles C. Little & James Brown, 1850; deposited by W. C. Smedes & T. A. Marshall, 10 September 1850.
Situ (Asa) Smith’s Illustrated Astronomy, designed for the use of public or common schools in the United States. Illustrated with numerous original diagrams. By Asa Smith; sixth edition: 4to 68p — New York, Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Asa Smith, 17 December 1850.
An abridgement of Smith’s illustrated Astronomy, designed for the use of junior classes in the public or common schools in the United States. By Asa Smith. Fifth edition: 12mo 72p —New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Asa Smith, 17 December 1850.
Situ (E. Fitch) Reports of cases argued and determined in the English court of Chancery, with notes and references to both English and American decisions. By E. Fitch Smith, Counsellor at Law. Vol. 21, containing Younge and Collyer’s Reports; Vol. 2, Reports of cases decided in the High court of Chancery by the Rt. Hon. Sir J. L. Knight Bruce, Vice Chancellor. By Edward Younge, of the Middle Temple, Esq., and John Collyer, of Lincoln’s Inn, Esq., Barrister at Law. With notes and references to both English and American decisions. By E. Fitch Smith, Counsellor at Law. Vol. 2, Michaelmas term, 1842, to Hilary term, 1844: 8vo 68lp — New York, Banks, Gould & Co., 1850; Albany, Gould, Banks & Gould; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co., 19 November 1850.
Smiru (Henry H., M. D.) Minor Surgery; or, Hints on the every-day duties of the Surgeon. By Henry H. Smith, M. D., &c. Third edition, with numerous additions. [lustrated by two-hundred and forty-seven engravings: 12mo 456p — Philadelphia, Edmund Barrington & George D. Hasweil ; deposited by Barrington & Haswell, 23 October 1850.
Situ (Phineas A.) Every Body’s Book. The Bible view of the Soul; Personality of God, the Devil, his origin, personality and doom; also an exposition of the spiritual rapping. By Phineas A. Smith: 12mo 96p — Rochester, N. Y., published by Smith & Clough, 1850; deposited by P. A. Smith, 14 June 1850.
(Poswell C., A. M.) An Introductory Geography, designed for children ; illustrated with one hundred and twenty-six engravings, and twenty maps. Tenth edition. By Roswell C. Smith, A. M.: 16mo 176p— New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Roswell C. Smith, 17 December, 1850.
Improved Edition. A Concise and Practical System of Geography, for common schools, academies and families; designed as a sequel to the ‘ First Book.’’ Ulustrated with thirty steel maps and.numerous engravings. By Roswell C. Siaith, A.M. Thirteenth edition: 4to 76p — New York, Cady & Burgess, 1850 ; deposited by Roswell C. Smith, 17 Deceiaber, 1850.
Geggraphy, on the Productive System, for

<<<Page: 232>>>

schools, academies and families; revised and improved. Accompanied by a large and valuable Atlas. By Roswell C. Smith: 12mo 312p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Daniel Burgess, 17 December, 1850.
SuitH (Roswell C., A. M.) Improved Edition. Smith’s Atlas; designed to accompany the Geography. By R. C. Smith, A. M.: 4to — New York, 1850, Cady & Burgess; deposited by Daniel Burgess, 17 December, 1850.
Smith’s Third Book in Arithmetic. Arithmetic on the Productive System; accompanied by a Key and Cubical Blocks. By Roswell C. Smith. Stereotype Edition: 12mo 311p— New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by John Paine, 17 December, 1850.
A Key to Smith’s New Arithmetic ;containing operations of all the examples in that work performed at length, with the reasons fully stated, wherever there is the least appearance of labor or difficulty. Designed to lessen the burden of Teachers. By Roswell C. Smith: 12mo 134p— New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by John Paine, 17 December 1850.
Smith’s Introductory Arithmetic. The Little Federal Calculator: consisting of questions and tables to employ the mind and fingers only; designed particularly to go before the slate and to prepare for it. By Roswell C. Smith. Stereotyped Edition: 16mo 72p— New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Roswell C. Smith, 17 December 1850.
Practical and Mental Arithmetic, on a new Plan: in which Mental Arithmetic is combined with the use of the slate; containing a complete system for all practical purposes ; being in dollars and cents. Sereotype Edition, revised and enlarged, with exercises for the slate. To which is added a practical System of Book-Keeping. By Roswell C. Smith: 12mo 282p— New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Roswell C. Smith, 17 December 1850.
A Key to the “ Practical and Mental Arithmetic;”’ for the use Teachers. By Roswell C. Smith: 12mo 168p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Carter, Hendee & Co., 17 December, 1850. |
Suytu (Rev. Thomas, D. D.) The Unity of the Human Races, proved to — be the doctrine of Scripture, Reason, and Science; with a review of the present position and theory of Prof. Agassiz. By the Rev. Thomas Smyth, D. D.: 12mo 395p — New York, George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by George P. Putnam, 20 August, 1850. |
Syevy (Daniel W.) The Manager’s Assistant ; being a condensed Treatise | on the Cotton Manufacture, with suitable explanations, &c. To | which are added various calculations, tables, comparisons, &¢., | of service to the manufacturer and general reader. By Daniel |

<<<Page: 233>>>

277 [ah
W. Snell: 12mo 184p — Hartford, press of Case, Tiffany & Co., 1850; deposited by Daniel W. Snell, 7 December, 1850.
Snow Flake (The) ; A Christmas, New Year, and Birthday Gift, for 1851 : 12mo 3350p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1851; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 December, 1850.
Snow (George K.) Boston Monthly Express List, and Forwarder’s Guide ; a hand book of expresses, telegraphs, mails, packets, steamers, stages, omnibuses, railway freight trains, &c. &c. No. 4, February, 1850: 12mo0— Boston, published by Snow & Wilder ; : deposited by Snow & Wilder, 14 February. 1850.
SomERVILLE (Mary) Physical Geography. By Mary Somerville. Second American from the new and revised London Edition. With Additions and a Glossary prepared for this Edition; 12mo 540p-Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1850; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 5 February 1850.
SouTHERN Medical Reports ; consisting of General and Special Reports on the Medical Topography, Meteorology and Prevalent Diseases in the following States: Louisiana, Alabama ,» Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, F lerida, Arkansas, Tennessee, Texas. To be published annually. Edited by E. D. Fenner, M. D., of New Orleans, vol. 1, 1849: 8vo 472p— New Orleans, B. M. Norman; New York, Samuel S. & Wilham Wood, 1850; deposited by E. D. Fenner, M. D., 19. November L850.
Spencer (Ichabod S8., D. D.) Fugitive Slave Law. The Religious Duty of Obedience to Law ; "A Sermon preached in the Second Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn, Novernber 24, 1850. By Ichabod S. Spencer, D. D., pamphlet ; S8vo 31p — New York, published by M. W. Dodd, 1850; deposited by Ichabod S. Spencer, D. D., 7 December 1850.
A Pastor’s Sketches: or, Conversations with anxious Inquirers, respecting the Way of Salvation. By Ichabod S. Spencer, D. D.: 12mo 414p-—New York, published by M. W. Dodd, 1850; deposited by Ichabod S. Spencer, 7 November 1850.
Spencer (Rev. J. A., M. A.) The East ; Sketches of Travel in Egypt and the Holy Land. By the Rev. J. A. Spencer. Elegantly illustrated with original drawings: S8vo large, 5035p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by J. A. Spencer, 29 April, 1850.
SpraGurE (Charles.) The Poetical and Prose Writings of Charles Sprague. New and revised edition: 16mo 205p— Boston, published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850 ; deposited by Charles Sprague, 8 January, 1850.
Stopparp (John F.) The American Intellectual Arithmetic; designed for the use of schools and academies; containing an extensive col-
lection of practical questions, with concise and original methods
of solution, which simplify many of the most important rules in written ‘arithmetic. By John F. Stoddard. Sixteenth edi

<<<Page: 234>>>

[iy 278
tion: 16mo 164p — New York, published by Nafis & Cornish, 1850; deposited by John F. Stoddard, 9 October, 1850.
Sropparp (J. F.) The Juvenile Mental Arithmetic ; designed for the use of primary and common schools. Being also an introduction to the ‘‘ American Intellectual Arithmetic, containing an extensive collection of practical questions, with concise and original methods of solution, which simplify many of the most important rules of written arithmetic.’? By John F. Stoddard: 16mo 72p — New York, published by Nafis & Cornish, 1850: deposited by Nafis & Cornish, 9 October, 1850.
Stories of School Boys: 12mo 150p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August, 1850. ;
Swan (Joseph R.) A treatise on the Law relating to the powers and duties of justices of the peace and constables, in the State of Ohio; with practical forms, &c., &c. By Joseph R. Swan. Fourth edition, revised, corrected and enlarged: 8vo large, 606p — Columbus, published by Isaac N. Whiting, 1850; deposited by Isaac N. Whiting, 24 January 1850,
The Practice in civil actions and Proceedings at Law, in Ohio, and precedents in pleading, with practical notes ; together with the form of process and clerk’s entries. By Joseph R. Swan. In two volumes, vol. 2: 8vo large, 740p — Columbus, published by I. N. Whiting, 1850; deposited by I, N. Whiting, 27 May 1850.
Taxvi With a preface by Edward Robinson, D. D. LL. D.: 12mo 412p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by Edward Robinson, 29 April 1850.
Tayior (Bayard) Eldorado; or, adventures in the Path of Empire; comprising a voyage to California, via Panama; life in San Francisco and Monterey ; pictures of the gold region, and experi+ ences of Mexican travel. By Bayard Taylor. With illustra+ tions by the author ; 2 volumes. Second edition: 12mo Vol. 1, 251p; Vol. 2, 224p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by B. Taylor, 20 August, 1850.
Taytor (Mrs. Jane) Primary Lessons in Physiology; for Children. By Mrs. Jane Taylor. New edition, revised and enlarged: 16mo 128p —New York, published by George F. Cooledge & Brother.
Terrt (B. F.) The Shoulder-Knot; or, Sketches of the Threefold Life of Man: a Story of the 17th Century. By B. F. Tefft: 12mo 3805p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 20 June 1850.
Tensas (Madison, M.D.) Odd Leaves from the Life of a Louisiana ‘*Swamp Doctor.”? By Madison Tensas, M. D.: 12mo 2038p

<<<Page: 235>>>

279 fai
— Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 27 April, 1850.
TueoLocican and Literary Journal. Edited by David N. Lord. Nos. 710, January—October, 1850: New York, published by Franklin Knight: Svo —deposited by David N. Lord; No. 7, 16 March, Nos. 8 and 9, 12 August, No. 10, October, 1850.
Tueremin (Dr. Francis) Eloquence, a Virtue : or, Outlines of a Systematic Rhetoric. ‘Translated from the German of Dr. Francis Theremin by William G. 'T. Shedd: 12mo 162p— New York, published by John Wiley, 1850; deposited by John Wiley, 29 January 1850.
TureEE Royal Magi (The); or, the Journey to Bethlehem. By the Author of “The Blind Orphan Boy.’’ Translated, altered, and arranged by C. E. Blumenthal, A. M., 12mo 192p — Philadelphia, published by Henry Perkins, 1850; deposited by Henry Perkins, 8 April 1850.
Ticknor (George) History of Spanish Literature. By George Ticknor; in 3 vols: 8vo large, vol. 1, 568p; vol. 2, 5652p; vol. 8, 549p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by George Ticknor, 12 January 1850.
Tower (David B., A. M.,) The Gradual Primer, or Primary School Enunciator, Part 1, The Child’s First step, taken in the right place. By David B. Tower, A. M. Seventh edition: 16me 70p — New York, Cady & Burgess. Boston, W. J. Reynolds 1850; deposited by David B. Tower, 17 December 1850.
The Gradual Speller and complete Enunciator ; showing the orthography and orthoépy of all words in common use, and in the forms in which they usually occur; arranged in accordance not only with the vowel sounds, but also with the consonant elements, and their various combinations ; giving .a correct pronunciation and a distinct articulation, as well as the orthography of the English language. By David B. Tower, A.M. Seventh edition: 12mo 160p— New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by David B. Tower, 17 December 1850.
Introduction to the Gradual Reader: or, Pri mary school Enunciator, Part 2. The Child’s second step, taken at the right time, By David B. Tower, A. M. Seventh edition: 12mo 180p— New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by David B. ‘D@wver, 17 December 1850.
The Gradual Reader. First Step, or Exercises in Articulation; designed to develop and strengthen the organs of speech, and to facilitate the correct utterance of the elementary sounds and their combinations, With simple reading lessons for pupils in the younger classes. By David B. Tower, A. M. Enlarged and improved edition : 12mo 168p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by David B. Tower, 17 December, 1850.
Intermediate Reader ; or, Primary School First Class Book; with elementary exercises in articulation, and the

<<<Page: 236>>>

280 |
first principles of elocution ; designed to follow the “ Introduction,’ and to precede the. “ Gradual Reader.” By David B. Tower, A. M.12mo 162p — New York, Cady & Burgess — Boston, W. J. Reynolds & Co., 1850; deposited by David B. Tower, 17 December, 1850.
Tower (David B., A. M.) Gradual Lessons in Grammar; or, Guide to the
Construdizon of the English language, by the analysis and composition of sentences. By D. B.'Tower, A.M., Sequel to Gradual Lessons in Grammar. By David B. Tower, and Benjamin F. Tweed: 12mo 288p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess; Boston, W. J. Reynolds & Co.., 1850; deposited by Neve Be Tower, 17 December 1850.
Intellectual Algebra; or, Oral Bxercises in Algebra ; for Common Schools, in which all the operations are limited to such small numbers as not to embarrass the reasoning powers, but on the inductive plan, to lead the pupil understandingly, step by step, to higher mental efforts; adapted to prepare the pupil for the study of written Arithmetic, and designed to be introductory to higher treatises on Algebra. By David B. Tower, A. M. Sev enth edition: 12mo BOD = Neve York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by David B. Tower, 17 December 1850.
Tow ER (David B. ) and WALKER (C. ) North American First Class Reader ;
the fifth book of Tower’s Series for Common Schools, in which the higher principles of elocution are explained and illuetraeed by appropriate exercises; designed to follow the ‘ Practical Reader.’’ By David B. Tower, A. M., and Cornelius Walker, A. M. Third edition : 12mo 426p — New York, Cady & Burgess — Boston, Benjamin B. Mussey & Co. , 1850 deposited by the authors, 17 December, 1850.
North American Second class Reader; the Fourth book of Tower’s series for Common schools, developing principles of Elocution, practically illustrated by elementary Exercises ; with Reading Lessons, in which references are made to these principles : designed to follow the ‘Gradual Reader.”’? By David B. Tower, A. M., and Cornelius Walker, A.M. Third edition: 12mo 276p — New York, Cady & Burgess ; Boston, Benjamin B. Mussey & Co., 1850; deposited by the authors, 17 December 1850.
TREMADEUR (S. Ulliac.) fhe Story of Jean Marie. Translated from the
French of M’lle. S. Ulhae Tremadeur, by Rev. E. Goodrich Smith: 16mo 107p— Hartford, published by H. S. Parsons & Co., 1850 ; ‘deposited by H. S: Parsous & Co., 6 May, 1850.
Topper (Martin Farquhar.) Proverbial Philosephy; a Book of Thoughts
and alien originally treated. By Martin Farquhar Tupper, We: Lyay F.R. S., of Christ Church, Oxford; with an Essay on the philosophy “of Prov erbs, and additional notes, with twelve illustrations: 12mo 276p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1851; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 December, 1850.

<<<Page: 237>>>

5 281
Turnine Point (The). A Book for Thinking Boys and Girls: 12mo 52p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by the American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850.
Tourniit (Mrs. L. C.) Success in Life; the Lawyer. By Mrs. L. C Tuthill: 12mo 177p— New York, published by G, P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850.
Success in Life; the Merchant. By Mrs. L. C. Tuthill; 12mo 188p— New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850.
Twe ve Stars (The) of our Republic ; our Nation’s Gift-Book to her Young Citizens. Elegantly Illustrated. : 8vo 8364p — New York, published by Edward Walker, 1850; deposited by Edwark Walker, 28 January, 1850.
Two Homes Compared (The), or, The Advantages of cleanliness: 12mo 34p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850.
TynpaLe (Samuel) or, the little Hero. Written for the American Sunday School Union: 12mo 36p— Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850.
Uncerwitter (Francis H., LL. D.) Europe, Past and Present: A Comprehensive Manual of European Geography and History, with separate descriptions and statistics of each State, and a copious Index, facilitating reference to every essential fact in the history and present state of Europe. By Francis H. Ungerwitter, LL. D.: 12mo 671p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 20 August 1850.
Virciu. The first six Books of the Auneid, together with the first, second and fourth Eclogues of Virgil, with explanatory notes in English. Especially designed for the use of Colleges and Classical Schools. By R. W. McFarland, A. B.: 12mo 231p— Cincinnati, published by E. D. Truman, 1849; deposited by R. W. McFarland, 27 September 1850.
Vouuiremin (L.) and (C.) The Swiss Pastor. The Life of the Rev. F. A. A. Gonthier. From the French of his nephews, L. and C. Vulliemin: 12mo 1839p --Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850.
Watxer (Rey. Aaron G.) The life of F. Jerringham Cauffman, a great American Resurrectionist ! or, Robber of the Grave !! Containing thrilling accounts of depredations upon the graves, committed in different sections of the country; particularly in_ the vicinities of our large cities and towns, such as Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore, New York, Cincinnati, Portland, Pittsburg, Providence, Albany, Buffalo, &c. Also, an account of his death-bed, and confession of the foregoing. By Rev. Aaron G. Walker, his religious counsellor. Prefixed isa letter by Rey. Mr, Walker, to a physician of Philadelphia, relative

<<<Page: 238>>>

to laying the present work before the public in reply to one received from said physician relating to the same: Pamphlet, 8vo 63p --Philadelphia, Walz & Ketterlinus, corner Third & Race streets ; deposited by D. C. Rodman, 10 September 1850.
Watuace (John William) Cases in the Circuit court of the United States, for the third Circuit ; with an appendix. Reported by Jobn William Wallace: 8vo 161p —— Philadelphia, published by Walker, 1849; deposited by A. Walker, 15 January, 1850.
Warp (I. De W.) India and the Hindoos; being a popular view of the Geography, History, Gov emment® Manners, Customs, Litera~ ture and Religion of that ancient people, with an account of the Christian Missions among them. By F. De W. Ward, late Missionary at Madras, and member of the «American Oriental Society”?: 12mo 344p — New York, Baker & Scribner ; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 1850.
WARREN (Char les) Hall’s method for the Accordeon, or Accordeon without a Master ; containing a selection of the most fashionable Songs, Polkas, Waltzes, Quadrilles, &c. ; together with the elementary i principles of Music and Instructions for learning this favorite instrument. By Charles W. Warren: S8Svo oblong — New York, William Hall & Son, publishers, 239 Broadway, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 19 August 1850.
Wartsor (Henry C.) Camp-fires of the Revolution; or, the War of Independence. Illustrated by thrilling events and stories, by the Old Continental soldiers. By Henry C. Watson. With original illustrations by Croome: S8vo 447p— Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1 November 1850.
Were (James, Esq.,) Lonz Powers; or, the Regulators. A romance of Kentucky, founded on facts. By James W. Weir, Esq. In two volumes: 12mo vol 1, 3864p; vol 2, 319p —Philadelphia, publisheded by Lippincott, Grambo & Co. ; deposited by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 28 September 1850.
Wesster (Noah, LL. D.) University edition. A Dictionary of the English Language ; abridged from the American Dictionary, by Noah Webster, LL.D. Revised edition, containing sev eral thousand additional words, from the last edition of the larger work ; important etymological rules for the orthography and pronuncia~ tion of words, the accented vocabulnries of Walker’s Key to the classical pronunciation of Greek, Latin, and Scripture proper names, tables of moneys, and of weights and measures; witha memoir of the Author: 12mo large, 546p — New York, published by Huntington & Savage, 1850; deposited by Wm. W. Ellsworth and Henry White, 3 January, 1850.
Academic Edition. A Dictionary of the English Language ; abridged from the American Dictionary of Noah Webster, LL. D. Revised edition; containing several thousand additional words from the last edition of the large work; important etymologies ; rules for the orthography and pronunciation of words, the accented vocabularies of Walker’s Key to the classical pronuncia

<<<Page: 239>>>

tion of Greek, Latin, and Scripture proper names; with a memoir of the Author: 8vo 433p —— New York, Huntington & Savage, 1850; deposited by Wm. W. Ellsworth and Henry White, executors of Noah Webster, deceased, 4 December, 1850.
Wensster (Noan, LL. D.) A High School pronouncing Dictionary of the
We tp (Rey
English Language, abridged from the American Dictionary, by Noah Webster, LL. D., with accented vocabularies of classical, Scripture, and modern geographical names. By William G. Webster: 12mo 360p— New York, Huntington & Savage, 1849; deposited by Wm. W. Ellsworth and Henry White, 2 January, 1850.
A Pocket Dictionary of the English Language. Abridged from the American Dictionary of Noah Webster, LL. D. Prefixed is a collection of words, phrases, mottoes, &c., iu Latin and French, with Translations in English. William G. Webster, Editor: 16mo 249p —New York, published by Huntington & Savage, 1846; deposited by Wm. W. Ellsworth & Henry White, 2 January, 1850.
A Primary School pronouncing Dictionary of
the English Language, abridged from the American Dictionary, by Noah Webster, LL. D. With accented vocabularies of classical, scripture and modern Geograpical Names. By William G. Webster: 12mo 320p— New York, Huntington & Savage, 1849; deposited by William W. Ellsworth & Henry White, 2 January 1850. . H. Hastings) The Life of Christ delineated in the series of events recorded in the New Testament. By Rev. H. Hastings Weld. Embellished by Illustrations in Tint, and [luminations from original drawings by Devereux: Svo 2832p —— Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 25 January 1850.
Wuarron (Thomas I.) A digest of the reported cases adjudged in the
several courts held in Pennsylvania. ‘Together with some manuscript cases. By Thomas I. Wharton. Fifth edition. By Francis Wharton. In two volumes: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 925p; Vol, 2, 1036p — Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, 1850; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson, 13 May 1850.
Wurepce (Edwin P.) Lectures on Subjects connected with Literature and
Life. By Edwin P. Whipple. Second edition: 16mo 218p — Boston, published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850 ; deposited by E. P. Whipple, 8 January 1850.
Wuire (George) Statistics of the State of Georgia: including an account
of its natural, civil and ecclesiastical history; together with a particular description of each county, notices of the manners and customs of its aboriginal tribes, and a correct map of the State. By George White. : 8vo 624p ; Fauna and Flora, 77p — Savannah, published by W. Thorne Williams ; deposited by W. 'T. W., 4 March, 1850.

<<<Page: 240>>>

aly 284
Wuirrtier (John G.) Poems, by John G. Whittier. Illustrated by H. Billings: Svo large, 5884p — Boston, published by Benjamin B. Mussey & Co., 1849; deposited by B. B. Mussey & Co., 25 February 1850.
Old Portraits and Modern Sketches. By John G, Whittier: 12mo 3804p — Boston, Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850; deposited by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 8 January 1850. Wirtrams’ Cincinnati Directory and Business Advertiser for 1849-50. First Annual Issue: 8vo 320p— Cincinnati, published by C. S. Williams; deposited by C. S. Williams, 2 March, 1850.
Cincinnati Almanac Business Guide, and Annual Advertiser, 1450. First Issue: 12mo 2 200p — Cincinnati, ee by C. S. Williams; deposited by C. S. Williams, 2 March, 1850.
Cincinnati Directory and Business Advertiser, for 1850-51, Second annual issue: 8vo 317p— Cincinnati, C. S. Wilhams, College Hall; deposited by C.S S. Williams, 12 October, 1850.
WiitaMs (Edwin.) The Presidents of the United States, their Memoirs and Administrations, imcluding an account of the inauguration of each President, and a history of the political events of his administration, na the transactions of Congress at each session ; to which is added the Declaration of Independence ; Articles of Confederation; Constitution of the United States, with notes and decisions; a brief history of the events and circumstances which led to the Union of the States, and formation of the Constitution; a Synopsis of the Constitutions of the several States; tables of members of the cabinets, ministers to foreign countries, and a list of members of Congress, from 1789 to 1849 ; statistical tables of revenue, commerce and population ; chronological table of historical events in the United States, &c. By Edwin Williams. Embellished with twelve portraits, engraved on steel : 8vo G80p— New York, published by Edward Walker, 1849; deposited by Edward Walker, 28 January, 1850.
The Statesman’s Manual. The addresses and messages of the Presidents of the United States, inaugural, annual, and special, from 1789 to 1849; with a memoir of each of the Presidents, and a history of (haiti administrations: also, the Constitution of the United’ States, and a selection of important documents and statistical information, compiled from official sources. By Edwin Williams. Tape iiened with portraits of the Presidents, engraved on steel by Vistus Balch. In four volumes. : 8vo — New York, Edward alker, 114 Fulton street, L849 ; deposited by Edward Walker, 28 January 1850.
WittraMs (Stephen W., M. D., A. M.,) The Genealogy and history of the Family of the Williams in America, more ‘particularly of the descendants of Robert Williams of Roxbury. By Stephen W. Williams, M. D., A. M., &c: 12mo 424p — Greenfield, printed by Merriam & Mirick, 1847; deposited by S. W. Williams, 10 September 1850.
Wiuiams (William R.) Miscellanies. By William R. Willams: 8vo 391p — New York, published by Edward H. Fletcher, 1850; deposited by Edward H. Fletcher, 25 January 1850.
Witus (N. Parker) People I have met, or, Pictures of Society and People of Mark, drawn under a Gan veil of fiction. By N. Parker Willis: 12mo 357p— New York, Baker & Scribner, 1850; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 3 January 1850.
Witison (George) Practical System of Arithmetic, enlarged and improved ; containing a new system of proportion, and a new method of solving questions in proportion with statement ; together with explanations of theoretical principles, and of the method of cancellation. By George Willson. 14th Edition: Svo 264p— New York, published by Geo. F. Cooledge & Brother, 1850; deposited by Geo. Willson, 10 August, 1850.
Wiyturor (Rev. Edward) Letters on the Pisphetic Scriptures. By the Rev. Edward Winthrop, M. D.: 16mo 175p—New York, published by Franklin Knight, 1850; deposited by Edward Winthrop, 20 May 1850.
WonperruLt Phenomena. Wonders of the Age! A thrilling narrative of the facts relating to the Dixboro’ Ghost! which lately appeared — at nine different times—in the village of Dixboro’, Washentaw county, Michigan, . . . . . also, the ‘wonderful appearance of three “Angels! . ». » » « as witnessed by several persons of unbounded ver acity, in Warwick, (C. W.) also, a wonderful phenomenon of the awful destruction by supernatural burning! wholly consuming away! of the notorious false prophet of this city, “ara, han gealsoyea. “brief history and description of the famous and ever sacred Pillar of Salt! located upon the shore of the Dead Sea, . <6 as reported officially by Lieutenant Lynch, U. S. N., late of the Dead Sea Expedition. Carefuily compiled, by E li Curtis, proprietor and publisher, New York, 1850; deposite «L by Eli Curtis, 6 May 1850.
Worcester (Joseph E.) A primary pronouncing Dictionary of the English Language ; with vocabularies of classic: al, scripture, and modern geographical names. By Joseph E. W orcester : 16mo 352p — Boston, Jenks, Palmer & Co., 1850; deposited by Joseph E. Worcester, 5 December 1850.
Elements of History, Ancient and Modern. By

<<<Page: 241>>>

phy . “986
Joseph E. Worcester, LL. D.: 12mo 408p — Boston, published by W. J. “Reynolds, & Co., 1850 ; deposited by J. E. Worcester, 9 May 1850.
Youne (William) Pocket Ausculapius, or, every one his own physician. By William Young, M. D., &c.: 16mo 192p — Philadelphia, deposited by William Young, 29 July 1850.
Youne Patroon (The) or, Christmas in 1690; a tale of New York. By the Author of ‘‘the First of the Knickerbockers”’ : 12mo 142p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by GaP: Putnam, 29 April 1850.
Axsgot (Asahel.) The Conqueror’s last Sleep, or, the Grave of Major ‘General Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States.
Written and composed for the piano forte, by Asahel Abbot: Ato 6p— New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 31 July, 1850.
Aspott (C. D.) The Badger Polka. Composed for the piano forte, by C, D. Abbott: 4to 2p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850,
Apr (F.) Agatha; words translated from the German, by Charles G. Leland, Esq. Music composed by F. Abt. Arranged for the piano forte, by Max Zorer: 4to 5p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Agatha; words translated from the German, by Charles G. Leland, Esq. Music compte by F. Abt. Arranged for the guitar, by Max Zorer: 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond, & Co., 9 Febr uary, L850.
Acapemy March; arranged for the piano forte, by G. Schwab: 4to 2p — Louisville, Kentucky, pone! by Pe ‘ters & Webb, 1850; deposited by Bue & W ebb, 25 May, 1850.
Apter (C. A.) “ Orlando ;”? Valse brilliante pour le Piano. Composée et dediée a4 M’lle. Isabella Manton, par C. A. Adler: 4to 7p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Anustrom. The Herdsman’s Song. ‘ Herde Sing’? The celebrated Echo Song: sung by M’ lle. Jenny Lind. Composed by Ahlstrom. Being No. 2 of Songs of Jenny Lind: 4to 4p — New York, published by Samuel C. Jollie, 1850 ; deposited by S. C. Jollie, 11 October 1850.
Airs from Lucia: arranged for the Harp, by T. H. Williams, being No. 3 of Gems from the Operas: 4to 10p— New York. published

<<<Page: 242>>>

by J. F. Browne, 1850; deposited by J. F. Browne, 21 Februry 1850. °
AxBerT (Chas. F.) The May Polka. Composed by Chas. F. Albert: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August 1850.
** AuiaN Percy.” Ballad, as sung by Madame Anna Ablamowicz. Arranged for the Guitar by the Publishers: 4to 5p — Louisville, published oo Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
" Ballads as sung by Madame Anna Ablamowicz. Arranged for the Piano Forte by the Publishers: 4to 2p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
ALLEN (Henry 2s Hortensia. Valse 4 cing temps par Henry A. Allen: dto 2p — Baltimore, ea by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April 1550.
Ayan (Parish) La Danse des Fees. Morceau caracteristique pour la Harp. Arranged in a familiar style from Parish Alvan’s cele= brated composition by 'T. H. Williams: 4to 10p— New York, published by J. F. Browne, 1850; deposited by J. F. Browne, 21 February 1850.
Ametie Wattz (The) as played by Munck’s Band at the United States Hotel, Saratoga Springs. Arranged by Johann Munck: 4to 5p—New York, published at Vanderbeek’s music warerooms; deposited by William Vanderbeek, 20 December 1850.
ANDERSON (Elbert) Allen Polka. Composed by E. Anderson: 4to 3p — New York, published by William Hall & Son 18 50; deposited by W ‘liam Hall & Son, 1 March 1850.
ANDREWS (John C.) “Come, I’ve something sweet to sing to you.” <A favorite ballad. Composed by John C. Andrews : Rie for the guitar by E. Blessner: 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Coss ict October 1850.
Jennie with her bonnie blue e’e. Written and composed by John C. Andrews. Arranged for the Spanish Guitar, by E. Blessner: 4to 2p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850.
Social Circle, or Drawing Room Companion ; a sett of Quadrilles, Polka, Spanish Dance, Scotch Reel and Waltz, designed to aid in éhe social soirees, Without the aid of a master. By John C. Andrews: 4to Sp — Published by William, Hall & Son, New York, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850.
Somebody’s coming, but I’ll not tell who. Written and composed by John C. Andrews. Arranged for the guitar by Thomas Crouch: 4to 4p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; dennsited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.

<<<Page: 243>>>

| 288
AncueEra (J. =) Stevens aa Step. Composed for the piano forte, by J.D. Anguera:4to 3p— Boston, published by A.& J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Astorta Waltz, Arranged for the piano forte or harp, by J. Adams Smith: 4to Sp — Published by H. J. Peters & Co, Louisville, 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters, 25 May 1850.
BacueEtor’s Song (The). By one of the Squad: Music by a Spinster, copyright secured to the single. Entered at Spinster Hall: 4to 5p — New York, published by Frith, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Frith, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
BapEN Baden. The real Schottish, arranged for the piano forte, by Fred. Wiese: 4to 2p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850.
Baker (E. L.) Massa sound is sleeping; composed by E. L. Baker: 4to Op — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co. »7 June, 1850.
Batre — Hither we come; or, the Pirates? Chorus, as sung at Christy,s Opera Comique, arranged from Balfe’s Opera, The Enchantress, by Max Zorer: 4to 5p — New York, published at Vanderbeek’s : Firth, Pond & Co., New York ; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 23 December 1850.
Batuarp (James) Favorite Russian Melody, with introduction and varias tions, by James Ballard: 4to 3p — New York, published at Vanderbeek’s, 479 Broadway, 1850; deposited by William Vanderbeek, 8 November, 1850.
Battimore Olio Waltz from the “ Ballet la Gizelle.’’ Arranged for the piano forte, by H. D. Sofye: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 20 May 1850.
Batcueitper (W. K.) La Bostonienne; Valse brillante. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by W. K. Batchelder: 4to 5p —-+ Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Beautirut Isle; Song, addressed to Dauphin Island, Mobile Point, Fort Boyer, Alabama. Adapted to a favorite Polish air, by James G. Drake: 4to 5p— Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co. ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October 1850.
BrEcueEr (Rev. Charles,) and Zunpeu (John.) The Metronome, or Music Teacher’s Assistant ; a new Manual of Sacred Song. By Rev. Charles Beecher and John Zundel: Svo 59p — New York, 1851; deposited by Charles Beecher, 21 December, 1850.
Bewerman (A. J.) Western Star Waltz. Composed for the piano forte, by A. J. Beiderman: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 Octeber, 1850,
Beituak (James.) Ben Bolt, Waltz, in which is introduced the “ Chant favori de Kneass.”” Composed by James Bellak: 4to 5p — Balti

<<<Page: 244>>>

more, published by W. C, Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Betiak (James) “ Bertucca Polka.” By James Bellak: 4to 2p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Virginia Polka. Composed for the piano forte by James Bellak : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
“ Beiie of Winyaw Bay (The.)”’? Written by Howard H. Caldwell, Esq. Music adapted and arranged by N. W. Gould, of Christy’s Minstrels: 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Ben Bolt Polka, in which is introduced the chant favori de Kneass. Arranged by W. C. Peters: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October 1850. ;
Benepict (Jules) By the sad sea waves, as sung by Mad’le Jenny Lind at her concerts in America. Composed by Jules Benedict : 4to 5p --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co, 1850; deposited by S. C. Jollie, 11 October 1850.
Take this Lute. Ballad sung by Mad’lle Jenny Lind, at her concerts in America. Composed by Jules Benedict: dto 7p -— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October 1850.
Jenny Lind’s Greeting to America. Written by Bayard Taylor, Esq. Music composed by Julius Benedict: 4to 7p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
Beyxert (George Felix) Gentle Kate. Sung by Miss Julia L. Northall. Poetry by Charles O. C. Music by George Felix Benkert : dio 7p--New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850.
What hath snared thee, heart? Ballad, as sung by Miss Rosa Jaques. Poetry written by Henry H. Paul. Music by Benkert: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co. ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Whisper one gentle word. Poetry by Henry H. Paul. Music by George Felix Benkert : 4to 5p— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wilham Hall & Son, 7 March 1850.
Bonnie Bess. Ballad. Poetry by H. H. Paul. Music by George Felix Benkert: 4to 7p—New York; published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 1 March 1850.
Bere (Albert W.) Mignonette Polka. Composed by Albert W. Berg : 4to dp — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
Bernrevter (H) Columbus Guards’ Quick Step. Composed by H. Bern-
Mis.—19.

<<<Page: 245>>>

had] 290
*yeuter. Arranged for the piano forte by Charles Reps: 4to op New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
BerwrevTEerR (H) Bombardment of Vera Cruz. Grand Heroic MarchComposed by H. Bernreuter. Arranged for the piano by Chas. Reps: 4to 5p—— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co.; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1850.
BiancueE and Liserre. Composed by the author of Jeannette and Jeannet. Arranged for the guitar by Thomas Crouch: 4to 3p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April 1850.
Bressner (Gustave) “I Keak got the blues to-day!’ A comic ballad written by Miss Sarah M. Graham. ‘The Music composed and dedicated to Miss Mary E. Thompson by Gustave Blessner; 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October 1850.
Empire State Quick Step, composed by Gustave Blessner: 4to 5p — New York, published by Wilham Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850.
BioomriEtp (E. L.) Euretta Polka, composed by E. L. Bloomfield: 4to 4p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850: deposited by Jaques & Brother, 6 June 1850.
Boquet Waltz (Le.) Arranged for the piano forte by J. Kirschenheuter : Ato 2p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co. 25 May 1850.
Bowv’p Sojer Boy. Arranged by J. E. Miiller, 4to 3p — Baltimore, published by George W illig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850,
BRANDEIS (Fred.) The Standard Bearer. Grand March, by Fred. Brandeis: Ato 5p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April, 1850.
Bristow (Geo. F.) La Belle Amerique ; WAG ine pour le Piano. Composée et dedié a M’lle Fanny Miller, par Geo. F. Bristow ; Op. 4: 4to 9p— New York, published by S. Pearson, 1850; deposited by Geo. F. Bristow, 11 October, 1850.
La Sérenade nocturne pour le Piano, par Geo. F. Bristow; Op. 8: 4to Ip — New York, published by S. Pearson, for the Author; deposited by Geo. F. Bristow, Tavtine. 1850.
I would I were a favorite Flower. Written by Emerald T. Wilson. Sung by Mr. Griswold. Music by G. F. Bristow: 4to 5p — deposited by G. F. Bristow, 7 June, 1850.
Tripler Schottisch. Composed by Geo. F. Bristow: 4to 5p — New York, published by S. Pearson; Firth, Pond & Co. ; Dubois & Warriner; William Vanderbeek ; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 350 December, 1850.
Brown (Geo. 8.) The Dying Meine A Song, written by J. 8S. Wilson. Composed by Geo. 8S. Brown: 4to ‘Sp — Baltimore, published

<<<Page: 246>>>

291 ie
by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
Brown. Le Chant Americaine. Variations on Brown’s popular melody, Will you come to my Mountain Home. For the piano forte, by Samuel Owen: 4to 8p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Brunns (J.J. W.) Jenny Lind’s Diamond Waltz. Composed for the piano, by J. J. W. Bruhns 4to 7p — Boston, A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Bryant (Mad’lle. S.) Fantaisie Brillante sur une Valse de Mad’lle. S. Bryant. Arrangée et variée pour le piano par C. Baldwin: Ato 11p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Bucktey (R. Bishop, Esq.) Jenny Lane. Words and music by R. Bishop Buckiey, Esq. Arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway: 4to 5p— Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October; 1550.
Burrowes’ Piano Forte Primer; containing the rudiments of Music, calculated either for private tuition or teaching in classes. Revised and enlarged, with additions and alterations, by W. C. Peters : 12mo 58p— Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 18495 deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Campo del Gloria, being No. 1, of ‘ Flowers of Andalusia.’’ A selection of Spanish melodies. Arranged for the guitar by Mad. Knoop: Ato 5p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Camp of Glory, being No. 4, of W. C. Peters & Co.’s selection of admired duetts, for two performers on the piano forte. Arranged by W.C. Peters: 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August 1850.
“Can I e’er forget the Valley.”’ Song or Duett. Arranged as a duett for the piano forte by A. Phillips; 4to 2p — New York, published by Win. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wim. Hall & Son, 3 May 1850. ,
Canpy (John) “ Farewell! Farewell is often heard.’ Words from the ‘“‘ London Despatch.’? Composed and arranged for the piano forte by John Candy: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co, 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
The Peasant Wife. Words by the Hon. Mrs. Norton. Music by John Candy: 4to 5p -Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Carven (Allen D.) New Edition. The Missouri Harmony; or, a collection of psalm and hymn tunes, and anthems, from eminent authors ; with an introduction to the grounds and rudiments of music. In four parts. By Allen D. Carden. Containing a number of admired tunes of the various meters, and several choice pieces, selected from some of the most approved collections of sacred music.

<<<Page: 247>>>

ea] 292
Revised, enlarged, and corrected. By Charles Warren: 8yo long, 268p — Cincinnati, published by Wilham Phillips & wie 1850; deposited by Morgan & Sanxay, 2 December, 1850.
Carnivau de Venise. Being No. 5 of Gems from the Operas, arranged for the Harp, by T. H. Williams: 4to 8p— New York, published by J. F. Browne, 1850; deposited by J. F. Browne, 21 February 1850.
CarPENTER (Samuel) ‘ Ever be joyous.”? Words by J. B. Murphy. Music composed by Samuel Carpenter. Arranged by Miss Mary Coxhead: 4to 5p — Philadelphia, Couenhoven & Duffy ; deposited by Couenhoven & Duffy, 21 December 1550.
Carstensen (Henry) “If I had thought thou couldst have died. Words by Wolffe. Music by Henry Carstensen: 4to 2p— Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co.; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October 1850.
Cuapwick (Henry) Mountain Hunter’s Waltz. Arranged from the Opera of Amelie, by Henry Chadwick: 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wilham
Hall & Son, 1 March 1850.
Minstrel Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano forte by Henry Chadwick : 4to 3p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. Curist1an Melodies: a Selection of Eymns and Tunes designed for Social and Private Worship in the Lecture Room and the Family. Edited by George B. Cheever, D. D., and J. E. Sweetser: 12mo. 252p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1851; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co., 5 December 1850.
Curisty’s Jane Monroe. A celebrated Ethiopian Melody, as sung by the Christy Minstrels. Words by G. W. Donelson, Esq. Arranged by E. P. Christy : 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 21 June 1850.
Katy Dean. A celebrated thiovian Melody, as sung by the Christy Minstrels. Words by '. Vaughn. Arranged by E. P. Christy: 4to 5p--New York, published by Wilham Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Wall & Son, 3 May 1850.
Coir (Geo. I.) Governor Seabrook’s Quickstep, composed at the request of the Washington Light Infantry. 8y George F. Cole: Charles. ton, published by George I’. Cole, 1550: deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850.
Coys (Solomon) The Harmonia; A new collection of easy songs, composed and arranged for one, two, three, and four voices, with a new set of rules and practical exercises, upon an original and scientific plan, for the use of schools, singing classes, and social circles. By Solomon Cone: 12mo long, is4p — Albany, Erastus H. Pease & Co., 1850: deposited by E. H. Pease & Co., 10 October 1850.

<<<Page: 248>>>

293 [ig
Coox (John C.) “ Lexington Polka,’”? composed and arranged for the piano By John C. Cook: 4to 3p— Louisville, published by H. J. Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters, 25 May 1850. Good Night Mamma! Good Night! or, the Dying Child: words by Dr. William T. Knight, music by J.C. Cook: 4to 5p — Louisville, Kentucky, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October 1850. ‘“Mammoth Cave Waltz,”’ composed and arranged for the piano forte by J. C. Cook: 4to Sp— Louisville, published by Peters & Webb, 1850; deposited by Peters & Webb, 5 October 1850. Cedar Hill Waltz, composed and arranged for the piano. By J.C. Cook: 4to 2p— Louisville, published by H. J. Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters, 25 May 1850. Kentucky Polka. Composed for the piano forte by J. C. Cook: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. “Summer Season,” being No. 2 of ‘'The Season Waltzes,”’ by John C. Cook: 4to 5p— Louisville, published by Peters & Webb, 1850; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May 1850. Fall-Season Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano forte by John C. Cook: 4to 3p — Louisville, published by Peters & Webb, 1850; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May 1850. ‘“« Winter-Season,”’ being No. 4 of “The SeasonWaltzes,” by John C. Cook: 4to 5p— Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co.; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. Lexington Quick Step. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by John C. Cook: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. Cooper (Adeline Maxwell, of London) Grand National Waltzes, dedicated to Gen. Z. Taylor, President United States. Composed by Adeline Maxwell Cooper (of London): 4to 11p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850. | Coprocx (W. R.) Eglantine Divertimento for the Piano Forte. Composed by W. R. Coppock: 4to 7p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April, 1850. Coquette Schottisch Polka, as played by Munck’s Soirée Band. Arranged by Johann Munck: 4toe 5p — New York, published at Vanderbeek’s ; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850. Coquette Schottisch (The.) Being No. 1 of Guitarist’s Gleanings ; a collection of operatic Gems, polkas, waltzes, &c. Arranged for the guitar, by J. Ballard: 4to 5p— New York, published at Vanderbeek’s, 1850; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850. Covennover (James.) Philadelphia Mazurka Quadrilles, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5; for the piano forte, Composed and arranged by James

<<<Page: 249>>>

Tit 294
Couenhover: 4to 7p — New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Win. Hall & Son, 1 March, 1850.
Covert (Bernard.) ‘‘ Brother, speak in whispers light ;’’ or, “ The Bride’s Departure.” Words by Capt. Patten, U.S. A. Music composed by Bernard Covert: 4to 5p — Boston, ap shed DYZA. 6 JP. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Crovcn (Thomas.) Then blame not time. Words by J. H. Macmichael. Composed and araanged for the guitar, by Thomas Crouch : Ato 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 Febr uary, 1850.
Cumminc (Wm.) Irmaéa Maria! Duetto for two equal voices. Words by W.H. Donoho. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by Wm. Cumming: 4to 5p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Curtiss (N. P. B.) The Hindoo Slave Girl. Words by M.S. Pike, Esq. Music by N. P. B. Curtiss: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J.P. Ordway ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 Oet. 1850.
When Slumber Sweet. Poetry by Marshall S. Pike, Esq. Music composed for the piano by N. P. B. Curtiss: 4to Op -— Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October 1850.
Deems (James M.) Vocal music Simplified: an elementary and progressive method of teaching vocal music in classes. With original exercises in solfegei and vocalization. By James M. Deems. 8vo bass, 112p; tenor, 112p _.. Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by James M. Deems, 21 May, 1850.
Deu Con Te. (Norma) Arranged for the Harp by T. H. Williams. Being No. 4 of Gems from the Operas: 4to 11p — New York, pube lished by J. F. Brown, 1850; deposited by J. F. Brown, 21 February 1850.
Dr Luce (George) City Guard Quick Step. Composed and arranged for the piano forte by George De Luce: 4to 4p —New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 28 January 1850.
Dre Meyer. When Twilight is Closing. Ballad. Words by F. Cosby. Melody from De Meyer’s celebrated ‘‘ Chant Bohemienne.”’ Arranged for the guitar by W. C. Peters: 4to 5p—— New York published by Willam Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850.
Densarti (P. Y.) ‘Softly the Moon, my love.”? A Serenade, written by C. W. Everest, Esq. Music composed by P. Y. Densari: 4to Op— New York, published by Sidney Pearson, 1850; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 7 June 1850.
Dopwortu (Allen) Dark Sett Quadrilles, Nos. 1, 2, 38, 4 and 5. Arranged by Allen Dodworth: 4to 7p — N. York, published by W. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 1 March, 1850.
Donizetti. Spirito Gentil. Spirit of Light; Cavatina; La Fayorita. Doni

<<<Page: 250>>>

295 Live
zetti. Being No. 1 of Boquet of Operatic Songs: 4to S5p — New York, published at Vanderbeek’s Music Warerooms, 1850 ; deposited by William Vanderbeek, 7 November 1850.
Donizetti. Change not Thou. Song written by F. Cosby, Esq. Melody by Donizetti. Arranged for the guitar by W.C. Peters: 4to 3p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1s: D0.
Ah! tender Floweret. A favorite Song. Words and arrangement by Henri. Music by Donizetti: 4to — New York, published By Jaques & Brother, 1850; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 22 March 1550.
Change not Thou. Song written by F. Cosby, Esq. Melody by Donizetti. Arranged Dy William C. Peters: 4to dp — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
Ecxarpt (Charles.) Baton Rouge GrandMarch and Quick Step. Composed and arranged for the piano forte by Charles Eckardt: 4to dp — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850.
Ecuo Song (The), Arranged by J. C. Scherpf. Op. 56, Ist Series, Op. 57, 2d Series, of ‘*The National Airs of Sweden,” arranged as Quadrilles, by John C. Scherpf: 4to dp--New York, published at the Music Wareroom 479 Broadway, William Vanderbeek; deposited by W. Vanderbeek, 20 December, 1850,
’ Emeracp Polka. Arranged for the piano, by Henry Chadwick: 4to 2p --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Eruiopr1an Popular Melodies ; arranged in an easy style for the harp, by T. H. Williams. No. 1. Carry me back; Dearest Mae; Happy are we, darkies so gay: 4to Ip — New York, published by J. F. Brown, 1850; deposited by a F. Brown, < 21 February, 1850.
Fittmore (Augustus D.) The Song of Steam. Words by Capt. C. W. Cutter. Music composed by Augustus D. Fillmore: 4to dp — Cincinnati, published by D. Anderson, 1850; deposited by D. Anderson, 9 November, 1850.
The wandering boy ; a duett. Words by Henry Kirk White. Music composed by Augustus D. Fillmore: 4to 3p — Cincinnati, published by D, A nderson, 1850; deposited by D. Anderson, 9 ‘November, 1850.
Our old Homestead. Words by Miss Phebe Carey. Music composed by A. D. Fillmore : 4to 3p — Cincinnati, published by D. Anderson, 1850; deposited by D. Anderson, 9 November, 1850.
The Universal Musician; a new collection of secular and sacred music, designed for musical associations, and social music parties ; with a new and comprehensive plan of instruction, embracing the various systems of notation. By A. Ds Filltiore : Svo oblong — Cincinnati, published by D. Anderson, 1850; deposited by A. D. Fillmore, 9 May,: 1850.

<<<Page: 251>>>

iy 296
Fircn (Rev. E. T., D. D.) “Thou art gone home;”’ or, the two voices. Words by Mrs. Hemans. Music by Rev. Eleazer T. Fitch. Ato 5p --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850: deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1850.
Foster (Stephen C.) The voice of by-gone days. Ballad. Written and composed by Stephen C. Foster: 4to 5p --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October 1850.
Way down in Ca-i-ro. Written and composed by Stephen C. Foster: 4to 5p --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1850.
Nelly Bly. Words and music by S. C. Foster. Being one of Foster’s Ethiopean melodies: 4to 5p--New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April 1850.
Mary loves the Flowers; Song. Poetry and music by S. C. Foster: 4to --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.,9 February 1850.
Nelly was a Lady. Written and composed by'S. C. Foster. Being No. 1, of Foster’s Ethiopean melodies: 4to Ap --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
Nelly was a Lady. Written and composed by Stephen C. Foster. Arranged for the Spanish guitar by Max Zorer: 4to 2p --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.,9 February 1850.
Soirée Polka, composed by Stephen C. Foster : 4to 2p —— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 12 February 1850. Another copy deposited 8 March 1850.
Soirée Polka. By S. C. Foster, arranged for four hands. Being No. 23 of W. C. Peters & Co’s., selection of admired duetts, &c., for two performers on the piano forte: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October 1850.
Dolcy Jones, written and composed by S. C. Foster. Being No. 3, of Foster’s Ethiopian Melodies: 4to 4p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
Fowrrr (J. A.) Sharon Polka, composed for the piano forte, by J. A: Fowler: 4to 5p— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 21 June 1850. Fire Fly Polka, composed for the piano forte by J. A. Fowler: 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850.

<<<Page: 252>>>

Fry (Theo.) Sylphide Waltz, in five steps. Composed by Theo. Fry: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 Febrnary 1850.
Futierarr (Otto) “ Sweet thoughts of him around me gather’’; or, ‘ the Soldier’s Bride.””, Written by L. M. Montague, composed by Otto Fiillgraff: 4to 7p—New York, published at Vanderbeek’s, 1850 : deposited William Vanderbeek, 4 October 1850.
Gace (Le) d’Amour, Valse, arranged for the piano forte, by C. Schaub: 4to 2p Poaisville, Ky. * punishes by Peters & Webb, 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
GANSBACHER (J.) “ Regina Coeli.”? To be sung from Easter until Trinity Eve. From J. Ginsbacher: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Gerxin (Charles H.) The Flora Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by Charles H. Gerkin: 4to 3p — Baltimore, published by Geo. Wilhg, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 24 February, 1850.
Gimper (Henry.) ‘I watch’d the dew upon the grass ;”’ as sung by Jenny Lind. Written and composed by Henry Gimber: 4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. Vanderbeek ; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850.
Guimpse (A) of love song. Words taken from the Hazel dell Poems. Arranged with symphonies and accompaniments, for the piano forte: 4to 5p — Albany, Boardman & Gray — New York, Firth, Pond & Co.; deposited by Boardman & Gray, 11 October, 1850.
Grover (Charles W.) Gentle Voices; for the Spanish guitar. Composed by Chas. W. Glover. Arranged by Henry Chadwick: 4to 3p— New York, published by Wn. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 3 May, 1850.
Susette and Beau Joe ; as sung by Geo. Kunkel, of the Nightingales. Words by 'T. Martin. Music arranged from Glover, for the piano forte, from ‘‘ Songs of the Sable Harmonists :’? 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
Gooxp (Henry) Memory’s Jewels. A song to my wife. Words from the Albany Evening Journal. Music composed by Henry Goold: Ato 3p--New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth & C o., 9 February 1850.
GraFuLia (C.S.) “ Captain Clark’s Qiiic k Step.’? Composed by C. 8S. Grafulla: 4to 7p --New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 19 August 1850. Friendship Quick Step.. Composed by C. 8. Grafulla for Phoenix Hook and Ladder co., No. 3: 4to 6p--New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.,.7 June 1850. Friendship Quickstep. Composed for the Phoenix Hook and Ladder co., No. 3, (of New York) by C. 8S. Grafulla, 4to

<<<Page: 253>>>

ie! 298
6p --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April 1850.
Grimmer (J) ‘Les belles de la cote joyeuse,”’ No. 1 of ‘Les belles de la Riviere Rouge.’? Valses en deux suites. Composées par J. Grimmer: 4to 9p --Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
“‘ Les belles des Natchitoches,’’ No. 2 of ‘* Les belles de la Riviere Rouge,’’? Valses en deux suites. Composées par J. Grimmer: 4to 9p --Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Grose (Charles) E. Pluribus Unum ; with brilliant variations for the piano forte. Composed by Charles Grobe: 4to 8p--Baltimore, published by William C. Peters, 1850; deposited by William C. Peters, 22 April 1850.
Gage d’Amitié; Variations brillantes, sur le theme favori, The Elfin Waltz, composées pour le piano par Charles Grobe : Ato 9p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850: deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850.
Gruse (Charles.) Georgia Waltz. Composed by Charles Grube: 4to 5p-New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son., 3 May 1850.
Guentrz (A. Ch.) Impromptu Capricieux. Composé pour le piano par A. Ch. Guentz: 4to 7p--Louisvilie, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Guizert (Benjamin J.) Le lac d’amour valse, composée pour le piano. Par Benjamin J. Guibert: 4to 3p --Louisville, published by Peters & Webb, 1850 ; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May, 1850. °
La belle Lucie. Favorite Waltz for the Piano. Composed by Benjamin J. Guibert : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by H. J. Peters & Co., 1850., deposited by H. J. Peters 25 May 1850.
Gune’t (Josef) ‘ Narragansett Waltz ;’’ No. 3 of Musical compositions of Josef Gung’! 4to 9p --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1850.
Wandering Melodies Waltzes. Being No. 2 of the musical compositions of Josef Gung’]: 4to Llp --New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April 1850.
Gunn (Isaac.) Mary Machree. Written by Miss Fanny Malone Raymond. Composed by Isaac Gunn: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Gunter (E. W.) There’s a nook in the greenwood; ballad, written by F. Cosby, Esq. Composed and arranged for thé piano forte, by E. W. Gunter: 4to 5p— Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 Qctober, 1850.

<<<Page: 254>>>

299 [ ie
Gunter (E. W.) The School Queen; a coronation Song. Words by Rev. B. B. Smith. Music composed and arranged for the piano forte, by E. W. Gunter: 4to 3p— Louisville, published py Hisids Peters & Co., 1850 ; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co. .» 20 May, 1850.
* Hap I never, never known thee; ”’ ballad. Arranged for the piano, by William Cumming: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Had I never, never known Thee ;”’ Ballad. Arranged for the guitar, by Wim. Cumming: Ato Op — Louisville, “published by Peters, Webb & Co., “1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Hance (J. F.) Presentation Quick Step. Composed by J. F. Hance: 4to Sp — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850.
Tfarapen (D. T.) The Enchanted Polka. Composed for the piano forte, by D. T. Haraden: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Harrineron (G. A.) Oh Phebe. An Ethiopian Ballad. Written by a gentlemen of Baltimore. Composed by G. A. Harrington ; 4to 5p--Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850.
Harry and Lucy. ‘* What shall ane Darkey do.’’ An Ethiopian Melody. Written and composed by Harry and Lucy: 4to 5p --New York, published by W. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 3 March 1850.
Harton (J. L.) Unkindness. Ballad, composed for, and sung by Eliza Biscaccianti ; to whom it is dedicated by J. L. Hatton: to 6p-Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Ci...0 Octoher 1850.
Hennines (John B.) The War Steed. Grand Military March. Composed by John B. Hennings: 4to 5p --New York, published by Firth Pond & Co. , 1850: deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1850.
Henri Quadrille impromptu, sur les Chansons populaires, Jeannette and Jeannot, Love’s Seranade, Bowl’d Soger Boy, &c., pour le piano par Henri: 4to 6p --New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1550 ; geese’ by Jaques & Brother, 22 March 1850.
“ Henrierra Gallopade.” Arranged for the piano by H. J. Peters: 4to 5p --Louisville, published by: Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Henssxer (I. R.) Chamois Polka. Composed for the piano forte by F. R. Henssler: 4to 6p --Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October 1850.
** Here’s a health to thee, Tom Moore.’ A favorite song, by Lord Byron; arranged for the guitar, by William lucho: 4to dp—

<<<Page: 255>>>

[ el 300
Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Herz (Henri) The Flower of peice Waltz, (being No. 2 of Cottage Duetts,) composed by Henri Herz: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 18 50.
The Pilgrimage; melody by Herz: words from the Message Bird: symphonies and accompaniments, by P. Y. Densari: 4to 2p —— New York, published by S. Pearson, 1850; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 11 October 1850. Hess (Charles.) The Thalia Schottisch. Composed by Chas. Hess: 4to 2p— New-York, published at Vanderbeek’s, 1850; deposited by Wm. Vandesbeel, 4 October, 1850.
Hrwre~ (J. H.) “Let us hope for the best ;’’ Ballad, eetien and composed by J. H. Hewitt: 4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850. “The single man;’’ a comic Song. Written and adapted by J. H. Hewitt: 4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Leap o’er the waves; song of the Buccaneer. Written, partly composed by J. H. Hewitt ; Ato Op— Baltimore, published by G. Wilhg, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Wilhg, Jr., 21 February, 18 50.
Hine (Charles.) Prairie Song. Written and composed by Charles Hine; Ato 2p—— Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850.
Hopson (C. A.) He reached the valley; ballad. Music by C. A. Hodson. Arranged for the guitar, by E. Blessner: 4to— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Horrman (G. R.) Queen of my soul, as a waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by G: R. Hoffman: 4to 5p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co. ; ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850.
Horrman (Richard.) Grande Fantaisie on the celebrated air, ‘ Here’s to you, Harry Clay.’’? Composed by Richard Hoffman: 4to 13p—— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by R. Hoffman, 7 June, 1850.
Houtmes (A. F.) Speed, speed, my fleet Vessel. Words by F. H. B. Music composed by A. F. Holmes: 4to 5p— Boston, published by A. & J.P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Homer (A) and Bitends around us; song, arranged for the piano forte, by Wm. Tillinghast : Ato 3p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
Howarp (Mrs. Charles.) Look from thy lattice, gentle Lady ; a Serenade,

<<<Page: 256>>>

301 en
written and adapted by J. H. Hewitt. Dedicated to Mrs. John I. Fry, by Mrs. Chas. Howard.
Howarp (Frank.) Quadrilles sociales. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by Frank Howard: 4to 7p— Boston, published by ASs. P: Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
I’p offer thee this hand of mine. Arranged for the piano forte by L. T. Chadwick; as a Quartette with an accompaniment for the piano, by W. Tillinghast: New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1850.
“Tp Cling to thee.’? Words by Mrs. 8. R. Thorpe. Arranged for the piano forte by H. J. Peters: 4to 2p — Louisville, published by H. J. Peters & Co., 1850 ; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co., 25 May 1850.
-©T Jove to look in those dreamy eyes; ” written by F. Cosby ; subject from Reissiger. Arranged for the piano forte by E. W. Gunter: 4to 7p — Louisville, EL a by ae Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Yoran Waltzes: composed and arranged for the piano forte, by a lady of South Carolina. Containing Nos. 1, 2,3, 4 and 5: 4to 7p — New York, published by W iliam Hall & Son. .» 1850 ; deposited by H. H. Shultz, 2 March 1850.
“T seen her at the window. No. 2 of songs of the Sable Harmonists, as sung by Kneass’ Opera Troupe. Arranged for the piano forte: 4to Sp— Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Juexo (William) “ Adah.” No 3 of “The Fairy Polka Rondos.”? A collection of useful and agreeable pieces for the piano forte. composed by William Iucho: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
California March. Composed for the} piano forte by William Lucho: 4dto 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
La Latona; valse brillante. Composed by William Tucho. 4to — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1859; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
“Titania.” No. 2 of “The Fairy Polka Rondos.” <A collection of useful and agreeable pieces for the piano forte. Composed by William Tucho: 4to 5p— Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. JacopsEN (Otto F'.) Warren Polka. Composed by Otto F. Jacobsen: 4to Op —— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1859.
“‘Jatapa Gas;” being No. 2 of ‘Songs of the Sable Harmonists. (piano): 4to — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co.; deposited by Peters, W lebb & Co,, 25 May 1850.
Jenny Lind’s Dream. Valse brilliante. Arranged for the piano forte by

<<<Page: 257>>>

Miss Augusta Browne: 4to 3p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October 1850.
Jenny Lind’s favorite serenading Polka; or, the National Schottisch. Arranged by H. P. Weller: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by Willliam. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by William C. Peters, 16 October 1850.
Jones (Edward P.) Guadalquive er Quick Step, introducing the popular airs: “True Love can ne’er forget,” and ‘‘ On the “Banks of Guadalquiver.’”? Composed by Edward P. Jones: 4to 4p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
The Return Waltzes. Composed by Edward P. Jones: Ato 9p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
Kewver (Mathias) Pit and Pat. A cae Song. Sung by Rose Merrifield. Words written and inscribed to “Mad. Albertine by Henry H. Paul. Music by Matthias Keller: 4to 5p — Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff, 1850; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850.
““Whene’er I see those smiling eyes.’ Words by Thomas Moore. Composed and respectfully dedicated to Jenny Lind by Mathias Keller: 4to 5p —— Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850.
Little Rose. A favorite ballad. Sung by Rose Merrifield. Written by Henry H. Paul. Music by ” Mathias Keller: 4to 5p —Philadelphia, ponies by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 } October 1850:
Albertine Polka, as danced by M’lle. Albertine and Mr. Wood at the Arch Street Theatre. Composed for the piano by Mathfas Keller: 4to 2p— Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850,
Song for the Union. Poetry by Freeman Scott. Composed for one or four voices, with the accompaniment of the piano forte by Mathias Keller 4to 15p—Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850.
American Liberty; a song national and patriotic by Freeman Scott, for one or four voices, with an accompaniment for the piano forte by Mathias Keller : dto 5p — Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850.
Flow on thou shining river; a favorite song. Words by Thomas Moore, music by Thomas Keller : 4to 5p — Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff, 1850 ; deposited
by M. Keller & J. Neff, October 8, 1850.
“My husband is sucha queer fellow ; ’’ a favorite com-
icsong. Written by Henry H. Paul, music by Mathias Kel

<<<Page: 258>>>

303 Pay
ler; 4to S5p— Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff, 1850; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October, 1850.
Ketter (Mathias) Freedom’s Flag; patriotic song. Written and respectfully dedicated to Senator Foote, by Robert Jones; music by Mathias Keller : 4to 5p — Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850.
Love’s Messenger; a favorite song. Words from the German; sung by Philip Rohr, at Barnum’s. Music composed by M. Keller: 4to 2p — Philadephia, publishod by M. Kellep & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J, Neff, 8 October 1850,
I live for thee only. Ballad. Words by A. Spencer, music by Mathias Keller: 4to 5p — Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850.
KENNEDY (Joseph.) Progressive lessons for the Flute ; comprising many of the choicest and most popular melodies, arranged with a second on the same staff, by Jas Kennedy : 4to 8p— Philadelphia, published by the Author, 17 S. Fifth street ; deposited by J. Kennedy, 23 July, 1550.
Krecsiock (Francis.) Come back, day-dreams, come back; Song. Composed by Francis Kielblock : 4to 2p —— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21.February, 1850.
Kine (Frances I.) O, come, smiling June. Written by Wm. B. Patten. Composed by Frances I. King: 4to 2p—S. Pearson, 78 Bleecker street, New York ; deposited 80 December, 1850.
Kryestey (George.) The Sacred Harmonist; a new collection of church music. Edited by George Kingsley : 8vo long — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by A. 8. Barnes & Co., 1 Februasy, 1850.
KIRSCHENHEUTER (J.) Sue Polka. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by J. Kirschenheuter: 4to 2p——Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Spring Blossom Polka. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by J. Kirschenheuter: 4to 5p --Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Keass (Nelson.) “Julia am a Beauty; being No. 1 of ‘Songs of the Sable Harmonists ;’”? piano. Written and composed by Nelson Kneass: 4to 5p --Louisville, published by W. C. Peters & Co., 1850 + deposited by W. C. Peters, 25 May, 1890.
keass (N.) Katy Dean. Written and composed by N. Kneass, being No. 9 of “Melodies of the New Orleans Serenaders’ Operatic Troupe: 4to 4p--New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April 1850.
Ben Bolt: or, Oh! don’t you remember; Ballad. Composed by Nelson Kneass; Second Edition: 4to 5p --Baltimore,

<<<Page: 259>>>

es) 304
published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 18 January 1850.
Ben Bolt. Chant favori de Kneass. Varie pour le piano par Charles Grobe: 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 8 March, 1850.
The Old icickaal Words by T. H. Bayley, Esq. Composed by Nelson Kneass: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by W. C. Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters & Co., 18 Jan-
uary, 1850.
Kwnicut (Joseph Philip) I miss thee from my side, beloved. Ballad, by Geo. P. Morris, Esq. The Music composed by Joseph Philip Knight: 4to 6p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Fond & Co., 9 February 1850.
KROLLMANN (Gimtare) “Sweet home Polka.’ @omposed for the piano forte by G. Krollmann: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Pétens, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
“Lapies, wont you marry?’ being No. 4 of ‘Songs of the Sable Harmonists ;”’ piano: 4to 5p— Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
La Hacue (Theod. Von) Woodman Spare that Tree. Polka. Composed for the piano forte, by Theod. Von La Hache: 4to 3p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October 1850.
La Porixa (Linda) Being No 1 of Gems from the Operas. Arranged for the harp by T. H. Williams: 4to 8p — New York, published by J. F. Browne, 1850; deposited by J. I’. Browne, 21 February 1850.
Laurence (S.) Song of the Snow. Words by the “ Poor Scholar.”? Music by S. Laurence: 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850.
Lracu (S. W.) “ The day we two were wedded,” a long time ago. <A ballad. Poetry by Theo. Woodw ard, Esq. Composed by S, W. Leach: 4to 5p— New York, sailished by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 21 June 1850.
Lex (Alexander) ‘(Iam dreaming of thee Napolitaine.”” Sung by Miss Andrews ; guitar. Composed by Alexander Lee. Arranged by G. F. Francis : 4to 3p — Louisvile, published by Peters, Webb & Co.; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
Lenscuow (Charles) Wedding Polka. Composed by Charles LenschowOpus 20: dto 5p --ee le by W.°C. Peters, 1850; deposites by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. Kossuth March. Composed by C. Lenschow. Being No. 3 of Cottage Duetts. Arranged by J. E. Miiller: 4to 2p --Baltimore, ‘published by G. W illig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850.

<<<Page: 260>>>

Lewscuow (C.) Kossuth March. Composed by C. Lenschow : 4to 5p --Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850.
Betty Polka. Composée par C. Lenschow, et variée pour le piano forte, par Charles Grobe: 4to 11p — Baltimore, published by G. Wilhg, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
The Rose; song, translated from the German, by the Rev. Chas. T. Brooks. Composed by C. Lenschow: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Wilhg, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Cradle Song. Translated from the German, by the Rev. Chas. 'T. Brooks. Composed by C. Lenschow; Op. 17: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Sailor’s Polka. Composed by C. Lenschow: 4to 3p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Sehnsucht nach der Heimath; the Hungarian song of Home. Words translated from the German, by Rev. Chas. T. Brooks. Composed by Chas. Lenschow : 4to 8p—— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 24 January, 1850. :
Le Roy (Edward.) The celebrated Robin Ruff Quick-step. Composed by Edward Le Roy: 4to 3p—— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Liszr’s Hungarian March ; as performed at the concerts of the Steyermarkische Company. Arranged for the piano forte, by H. J. Peters : 4to Sp — Louisville, published by Peters & Webb, 1850; depoposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May, 1850.
Lopxe (C. A.) Violet Waltz. In five steps; composed by C. A. Lipke: 4to 5p —— Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr.; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850.
Lorenz (Carl) The Wild Flower Waltz, by Carl Lorenz: 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
Juliet Polka, by Carl Lorenz: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
The Empire Waltz, by Carl Lorenz 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October 1850.
Louisiana Belle ; Chant favori, varié pour le piano, par Charles Grobe: Ato 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Lywcu (F.) The Negro’s Departure; or, Dinah Brown. Words by T. B. Prendergast. Melody by F. Lynch; .arranged for the piano by
Mis.—20.

<<<Page: 261>>>

fag 306
J.P. Ordway: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October 1850.
Lyon (D. J.) “‘ Forget me not.”” Ballad. (Piano) ; written and composed by D. i Lyon: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
The day, ch! the daylight for me ;”’ answer to the ‘ Night, oh! the Night for me.” Written and adapted to a German melody by De. Lyons: 4to dp — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by aaa Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Same arranged for Guitar.
M’Kernna (J. Theod.) Manor Waltz. Composed by J. Theod. M’ Kenna. Opus 19: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
The Donna Bella Polka. Composed by J. T. M’Kenna: 4to eh ealametes published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W.-C. Peters, 22 April, 1850.
Maneoxp (C. A.) The Bird and the Maiden; as sung by Mad’lle. Jenny Lind. Composed by C. A. Mangold: Ato a es York, published by S. C. Jollie, 1850; deposited by S.. C. Jollie, il October, 1850.
Marsuatu (L.) The old Timepiece on the Stairs; Quartette. Poetry by Longfellow. Composed by L. Marshall: 4to 2p —— published by A. & J. P. Ordway, Boston, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P.Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Martinez (Antonio C.) Souvenir de Manhasset Schottische pour Piano, par Antonio C. Martinez: 4to 3p—S. Pearson, 78 Bleecker street, New York; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 30 December, 1850.
Mason (Henry.) The Picciola Polka. By Henry Mason: 4to 5p— published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
May (A.) Minerva Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by A. May: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
May (D. M.H.) In far distant Lands. Written by John done: Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by D. M.H. May: 4to 2p — Baltimore, ites) by G. Wilhg, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, I 21 February, 1850. ;
MayHew (Frederick MS The Cadet March. Composed by Frederick A. Mayhew: 4to 3p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Poud & Co., 11 October, 1850.
Meticuar (Osw. Em.) Cordelia Polka. Composed by Osw. Em. Melichar: Ato 5p —— New York, Bcd by W. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wim. Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850.
Me topre Irlandaise. ‘‘ Come o’er the sea, maiden, with me.”’ Transcrite pour plano forte, par W. Vincent Wallace. Op. 53: 4to 6p— -

<<<Page: 262>>>

307 ca
New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Messemer (J.) La Belle de Louisville ; Polka, arranged for the piano forte, by J. Messemer: 4to 2p — published by H. J. Peters & Co., Louisville, Ky., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co., 25 May, 1850. Taylor’s Grand March. Composed for the piano forte, by J. Messemer: 4to 2p — Louisville, published DY H. J. Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Falls City Gallopade. Composed and salesind for the piano, by J. Messemer: 4to 2p— Louisville, published br Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by I. J. Peters, 25 May, 1850. MeyerRBEER. The Hermit and the Maiden; Quando Lasciai la Normandie Roberto il Diavolo. Sung by Jenny Lind, composed by Meyerbeer: 4to 6p — New York, published by S. C. Jollie, 1850: deposited by S. C. Jollie, 11 October, 1850.
“Robert! Robert! thou whom I love,’’ (Robert! Robert! toi que j'aime ;) Cavatina. English brainaldteen by W. Henry Morris. As sung by Mrs. Laura A. Jones. Robert le Diable, by Meyerbeer : dto Ip — New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Micvet (M.) Farewell to School; Song or Trio. Written by Geo. D. Prentice. Music composed ‘and arranged by M. Miguel: Ato 6p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Pete rs, Webb & Co. 5 October, 1850.
Mirvs (Hermann.) Cynthiana Polka. canigeent by Hermann Mirus: 4to 2p +=Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850.
Motr’s (T. F.) fifty-one practical Lessons for first beginners on the Piano Forte; consisting of finger exercises, easy rythmical excrcises and popular airs. Arranged in strict progressive order, and fingered for small hands: “4to 20p — New-York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by T. F. Molt, 11 October, 1850.
Morra (Sig’r. J.) Ladies’ Military Polka. Composed by Sig’r. J. Morra: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 12 February, 1850.
Morris Polka, as performed by Dodworth’s Cornet Band. Arranged for the piano, and dedicated to Morris, by his sister, Caroline Burnton: 4to 4p— New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 13 April, 1850.
Mountain Home Quick-step: No. 46 of the Flowers of Youth: a collection of favorite airs. Arranged in an easy manner for four hands: 4to 5p— New York, “published by ‘Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 ; Mota by W. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Mozart (W. A.) Fear not, fond youth; ‘Non paventar;’ “O, zittre nicht.”” Grand aria, sung by Mad’lle. Je nny Lind, in the opera,
I] Flauto Magico. Composed by W. A. Mozart: 4to 7p—

<<<Page: 263>>>

New York, published at Vanderbeek’s, 1850; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850.
Mutter (W.) “TI give thee back thy plighted Vow;’’ Ballad. Words by Wm. W. Scrugham, Esq.: to whom the music is most respectfully dedicated, by his friend, W. Miiller: 4to 5p— New York, published by W. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Hearts and Homes ; Polka. Composed by W. Miiller: 4to op — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Mutter (J. E.) Susannah Polka. Composed for the piano forte, by J. E. Miller: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Soldier’s Delight Quick-step. Composed by J. E. Miler: te 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
The merry Sleigh-ride ; Gallopade, by Julius E. Miiller: 4to 8p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850.
Margaret’s Waltz. Composed by Julius E. Miiller: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Oronibus Gallopade. Composed by J. E. Miiller : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Monex (Johann.) Die Blumenstrauss, or Bouquet Schottisch Polka. Composed for the piano, by Johann Munck: 4to 4p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 6 June, 1850.
Nasu (J. P.) ‘ All around and all above thee,”’ or ‘‘ Maiden fair.”? Words by F. Cosby, Esq. Melody by J. P. Nash. Arranged for the piano forte, by H. J. Peters : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May, 1850.
New Mary Blane Polka. Arranged for the piano forte; 4to 2p— New York, published, by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 5 May, 1850.
* Nor Forsaken ;’’ Song. Words by Prof. N. Butler—Theme de Rosellen La Tremolo.” Arranged for the piano forte, by H. J. Peters: 4to 7p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Oaxtey (Wm. H.) The Alleghanians’ Boat Glee, by Wm. H. Oakley. (Being No. 12 of the Alleghanians’ Songs, Duetts, Glees, &c.) Arranged for the piano forte: 4to 5» — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Ou! carry me back to Old Virginny, as sung by the Christy Minstrels. Arranged for the guitar, by Henry Chadwick: 4to 2p— New

<<<Page: 264>>>

York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Ox! Dinah, take this hand. Words written, and music arranged by T. J. Sweet: 4to 5p— New York, published by kirth Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850. Oxiver (E. B.) The Exile’s Welcome. Maria Festiva; (March.) Composed for the piano, by E. B. Oliver: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. Opi (J. kK.) ‘ Orphan’s Lament.’? Words by Melodia. Music composed by J. R. Opl: 4to 5p, Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. Orpway (J. P.) Welcome, sweet bird of song. Poetry and music composed by J. P. Ordway, and inscribed to Jenny Lind, on her first visit to Boston: 4to 5p— Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. The Crystal Polka. Composed for the piano forte, by J. P. Ordway: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1550; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. Sweet Nelly Brown. Words and music composed for the piano, by John P. Ordway : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. Old Sam Grid-iron. Words by Sam’s uncle. Music composed and arranged by J. P. Ordway : 4to 5p— Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. Affection’s Laurel Wreath, or, Sympathy. Words and music composed for the piano forte, by J. P. Ordway: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. ‘ “Music fills my soul with sadness.’’ Words by P. Gilmore. Music composed for the piano, by J. P. Ordway: 4to Sp — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. The death of Gen. Taylor. Sung by Ossian E. Dodge, Esq. Poetry and Music composed by John P. Ordway: 4to Op— Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. Orro (F.) Sunset on the Sea. The poetry by Charles P. Shiras, Esq. Adapted to melody by F. Otto. Arranged for the piano, by Charles Grobe: 4to 3p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. P. (KE. H.) Le premier début Valse, par E. H. P.: 4to 2p—E. Pearson, 78 Bleecker street, New York; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 30 December, 1850. Patrrey (George.) Lottie Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by George Palfrey : 4to 2p— New York, published by

<<<Page: 265>>>

Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Pearson (S.) “Longings for the Spring time.’ Written by W. A. C. Music composed and arranged by Sidney Pearson — New York, published by S. Pearson, 1850; depcsited by Sidney Pearson, 7 June, 1850.
Penpieton (Mrs. Ed. H.) Farewell to the Land where the heart-tide is Springing, or the M’Ivor’s Farewell. Arranged as a Duett. Composed by Mrs. Ed. H. Pendleton: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850, deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
Penot (A.) La Pyrenenne; the new Quadrille. The figures invented by Mons. Zaryshowki. Music composed by A. Penot ; 4to 5p— New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 3 May, 1850. Perers (W. C.) Jessie of Glengyle. Words by W. H. Donoho, Esq. Music by W. C. Peters; (Piano): 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850. “‘We stood beside the window.”? Chant favori de W.C. Peters. Varié pour le piano, par Chas. Grobe: 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters ; deposited by W. C. Petrs, 6 May, 1859. ‘Cincinnati Hop Waltz ;’’ being No. 1 of the Flowers of Youth. Arranged for four hands, by W. C. Rayner. Composed by W.C. Peters: 4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wim. Hall & Son, 3 May, 1850. Sing, and remember me; Ballad. Written by J. H. Hewitt. Music composed by W. C. Peters: 4to 5p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. Prister (A. S.) Irene Waltz. Composed by A.S. Pfister: 4td 3p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850. Pamiprr (M.) The Twilight Waltzes. Composed by M. Philippi: 4to 9p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. A Rose without a Thorn; Polka. Composed by M. Philippi: Ato 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. Putuures (Austin.) “The hero who dares, is the hero who wins.’’ Sung at the grand complimentary ball given in honor of Major General Zachary Taylor, on the 5th of February, 1850. Words by Chas. D. Stewart, Esq. Music by Austin Phillips: 4to 5p— New York, W. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850. “‘The dearest name ;’’ Duett, for soprano and tenor voices. Composed by A. Phillips: 4to 5p — New York, pub

<<<Page: 266>>>

311 fl]
lished by Wm. Hall & Son ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850.
Pixe (Marshall S.) Happy are we to-night. Words and music by Marshall S. Pike, Esq Arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway: Ato 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Home again. Words and music by Marshall S. Pike, Esq. Arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway: 4to d5p— Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway; deposited by A. & J.P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. e
The Indian warrior’s grave. Poetry and music by Marshall S. Pike, Esq. Arranged for the Planes by J. P. Ordway : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A.& J. P. Ordway ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
“« Pirates’ Chorus ;’’ from the Enchantress. Arranged, with variations for the piano forte, by Anthony Reiff, Jr. : Ato 7p — New York, published by Win. Hall & Son, 1850 ; : deposited by Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Pray (The) of life Polka. Arranged for the piano forte, by Chas. Grobe ; Opus 140: 4to dp — “Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr. ., 21 February, 1850.
PLEASANT Summer days (The); Subject from a German Melody. Arranged for the piano forte, by J. F. Wahl: 4to 3p — Louisville, Ky. * published by Peters, Webb & Co.; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, Is 50.
Pouxton (Geo. R.) Beautiful May ; Song. Composed by Geo. R. Poulton: 4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 3 May, 18 es
Prentice (Mrs. Geo. D.) “ Would I were with thee ;’’ Ballad. Written by Hon. Mrs. Norton. Music composed ‘a Mrs. Geo. D. Pren-
give. Arranged for the guitar, by G. F. Francis: 4to — Louisville, »ublished by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Same, arranged for piano.
Retssicer. Sweet morn of life; Song. Music by Reissiger. Words and arrangement by Henri: 4to 7p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 6 June,
1850. Renausy, New Scottish Dance, as taught by Mademoiselle Pauline Desjardins. Music composed by. Renausy. Arranged for the piano
forte, by Henri: 4to 3p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850 ; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 15 April, 1850.
Rosa Ler; being No. 4 of Cottage Duetts, Arranged by J. E. Miiller: Ato 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Rose of Tralee. Arranged for the guitar, by B. F. Francis: 4to 2p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.

<<<Page: 267>>>

Rosienon Polka (The). Arranged for the guitar, by Mrs. Knoop: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Petérs, 1850; deposited
by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Rowan Tree (The). A favorite Scotch Ballad; as sung by Mr. Duffield. Arranged for one or two voices, by W. C. Peters, with guitar accompaniments: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Russe. (B. A.) Elfin Polka. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by B. A. Russell: 4to 2p— New York, published by Firth,
. Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Raima (Francis.) The American National Boquet ; a set of brilliant waltzes, composed by Francis Rziha; 4to 14p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850
Home! Sweet Home: as a waltz, by Francis Rziha. American Boquet, No. 1: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Star Spangled Banner: as a waltz, by Francis Rziha. American National Boquet, No. 2: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Hail Columbia : as a waltz, by Francis Rziha. American National Boquet, No.3: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Melodeon Waltz ; by Francis Rziha. American National Boquet, No. 4: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Believe me, if all those endearing young charms; as a waltz, by Francis Rziha. American National Boquet, No. 5: dto 2p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1856; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Love not; as a waltz. Composed by Francis Rziha. Being No. 6 of the American National Boquet, a sett of brilHant waltzes, as performed by the Steyermarkische Company : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
The Papageno Polka. Being No.4 of the Boudoir Polkas. Composed for the piano forte, by Francis Rziha: 4to S5p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
Old Whitey’s Polka. Composed for the piano, by Francis Rziha: 4to 5p— Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
The Amourette Polka. Being No. 3 of the Boudoir Polkas. Composed for the piano forte, by Francis Rziha: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.

<<<Page: 268>>>

313 i Fy] Rama (Francis.) The Crambambuli Polka. Being No. 2 of the Boudoir Polkas. Composed for the piano forte, by Francis Rziha: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C, Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. Sanps (H. B.) La Gazelle Rondo Valse, par H. B. Sands : 4to 5p — New
York, chez Guillaume Vanderbeek, 479 Broadway ; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 20 December, 1850.
Santa Anna’s March. Being No. 14 of W. C. Peters & Co.’s Selection of admired Duetts, for two performers on the piano forte. Arranged by W. C. Peters: 4to 5p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850.
Saux (Geo.) Bury me in the little churchyard. Words by J. H. Warland. Music by Geo. Saul: 4to 5p— New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 7 March, 1850.
Scnerrr (John C.) Sketch Club Waltzes. Composed by John C. Scherpf: 4to 8p — New York, published at Vanderbeek’s, 1850; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850.
Scumirr (Georges.) Norma. Grand Fantaisie brillante, pour le piano. Composé par Georges Schmitt : 4to 29p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
Scumirt (J.) New Music Hall Waltz. Composed by J. Schmitt. Arranged by P. Y. Densari: 4to 2p — New York, published by S. Pearson, 1850; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 11 October, 1850.
Scureiner (Hermann.) Souvenir de Wilmington Polka. Composed by Hermann Schreiner : 4to 5p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
Forget me not, Waltz. Composed by Hermann Schreiner: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jf; 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. Scuusert’s Beautiful Melody, La Sérenade. Arranged as a vocal Duett, by Leopold Hoffman: 4to 7p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. Scuwarz (J.) “Parce Domine,” for penitental occasions. Composed by J. Schwarz: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. «‘Tantum Ergo.’? Composed by J. Schwarz: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by J. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. Scuwine (Henry.) Louisa Polka. Composed by Henry Schwing : 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850.
Three Ave Marias, for Soprano and Alto, with an accompaniment for the organ. Composed by Henry Schwing: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by Geo. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.

<<<Page: 269>>>

i i 7 314
Scuwine (Henry.) Margaret Polka. Composed by Henry Schwing: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G, Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Scuut (B. F.) Deer Creek Polka. Composed by B. F. Scull: 4to 5p— Philadelphia, Couenhoven & Duffy ; deposited by Couenhoven & Duffy, 21 December, 1850.
Serious Family Polka (The). Arranged by George Loder: 4to 3p— New York, published by S. C. Jollie, for G. Loder ; deposited by S. C. Jollie, 26 June, 1850.
(Same.) Arranged for the piano forte, by John Munck: 4to 4p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 22 February, 1850.
Suaw (Oliver J.) “‘The Elysian Isle.”? No. 2 of ‘Gift Songs.” The poetry by James H. Collier, Esq. Music composed and arranged by Oliver J. Shaw: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth,
4 Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Song of the Cloud. The poetry by James H. Collier, Esq. Music composed and arranged by Oliver J. Shaw: 4to 5p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. .
Sinciair (R.) Ben Bolt. A favorite Song. The words by T. Dunn, Esq. The music composed by R. Sinclair: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
“ Sieepinc, I dreamed, Love.’’ From Wallace’s beautiful melody, Le Reve. Arranged with brilliant variations for the piano forte, by John C. Scherpf: 4to 11p— New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850.
Smitu (J. B.) “How shall I tell thee,’ Song. Composed and arranged for the piano, by J. B. Smith: 4to 2p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1890. |
Sxow (The). Words by Charles Lamb, Esq. Adapted and arranged to an ‘Old English melody,” by James G. Meder: 4to 5p — NewYork, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 1 March, 1850.
Sorce (Henry D.) Souvenir d’Hungary. Composed for the piano forte, by Henry D. Sofge: 4to 5p— Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850. Lilie Waltz. Composed for the piano, by Henry D. Sofge: 4to 5p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850. Les Adieux Valse. Composed for the piano forte, by Henry D. Sofge : 4to 2p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters,

<<<Page: 270>>>

Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850.
Sorce (Henry D.) Sentimental Waltz. Composed for the piano, by Henry D. Sofge: 4to 3p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850.
Cincinnati Polka, Mazurka. Composed for the piano forte, by Henry D. Sofge: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1550; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Newport Polka. Composed for the piano, by H. D. Sofge: 4to 2p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb See. 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850.
Sone (The) she loved to sing, Ballad. Words from the City Item. Arranged for the piano forte, by J. T. Stoddard: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Wilhig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Spoor (Louis.) Lovely Maiden, (Schénes Miadchen,) Duett, from Sphor’s Opera of Jessonda. Arranged by W. C. Peters: 4to 11p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
Lovely Maiden; Duett, from Jessonda. Music by L. Sphor. Arranged by J. F. Petri. Being No. 22 of W. C. Peters & Co.’s Selection of admired Duetts, for two performers on the piano forte: 4to 11p — Baltimore, published by W. C, Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850. Sropparp (J. T.) Evergreen Waltz. Being No. 1 of Cottage Duetts. Composed by J.T. Stoddard. Arranged by J. E. Miiller: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 18950. Sror that knocking. Being No. 5 of Cottage Duetts. Aranged by J. E. Miiller : 4to 2p -— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. Srrakoscu (M.) Rosée du Matin. Etude poetique pour le piano, par MStrakosch: 4to 11p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters» 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. A selection of choice compositions of Maurice Strakosch. Serenade Andalousie: 4to 10p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 18503; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. California gold fever Gallop Scherzo. Composed by M. Strakosch: 4to 9p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. Srrauss. Alice Polka. Composed by Strauss. Arranged for the piano forte, by C. Lenschow: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G, Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.

<<<Page: 271>>>

Srrauss’ celebrated Bell Waltz. Arranged for the piano forte, by Dr. C. Lorenz: 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. The Greek Waltz, by Strauss. Arranged as a duett for the piano forte, by Henry Goold. 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; Posted by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. Srrisy (William.) The Battle of Buena Vista. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by Wm. Striby: 4to 12p— Louisville, published by H. J. Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters, 25 May, 1850. *‘ In bliss we shall meet thee.’? Written-on the death of Miss Serene N. Davis, by Rev. S. Dyer. Composed for the piano, by William Striby: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. Suazran Waltz. Arranged by J. E Miller: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. ** Suexy Lane.”’ Written by Miss Z. B. of Brooklyn, N. Y. Music adapted and arranged by N. W. Gould, of Christy’s Minstrels. Sung by K.P: Christy : 4to dp — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850. Swepisu Nightingale Waltz. Composed for the piano forte, by an amateur: 4to 5p — New York, published by S. Pearson, 1850 ; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 11 October, 1850. Swirr (H.) “I loved thee when in earlier years.”? Written by the Rev. Geo. . W. Bethune. Composed by H. Swift: 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co:;9 February, 1850. Soi aed thee when in earlier years.” Words by G. W. Bethune, D. D. Composed and arranged ta the guitar, by H. Swift: 4to 2p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850. SZEMELENYI (Bins Csardas No. 3; Hungarian ne Gonnean by E. Szemelenyi: 4to dp— Baltimane, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. Kossuyh’s Grand Hungarian National March. Arranged for the piano forte, by E. Szemelenyi: Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. Csardas Il.; Hungarian Air. “Tout est perdu hormis ?Honneur.”’ Opus 18; ; by E. Szemelenyi: 4to 5p— Baltimore, Eabiishe od by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Wilhig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Mad’ lle Jagiello’s Magyar Quick-step. Composed by E. Szemelenyi. Opus 19: 4to 4p— Baltimore, published by

<<<Page: 272>>>

317 faj
W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 18 January, 1850.
SzEMELENYI (E.) The Hungarian Exile. Words by Mrs. Phelps. Music by Ernst Szemelenyi: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
The Musical Treasure ; a circle of progressive pieces for young performers. Composed by Ernst Szemelenyi: 4to 11p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Csardas; Hungarian’s Lament. Composed by” Ernst Szemelenyi. Op. 17: 4to 5p—Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
Csardas No. 4; ‘* Hungarian Dance.’ Composed by E. Szemelenyi: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850.
Elégie Poetique. Composed by E. Szemelenyi. Opus 20: 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by Wm. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850.
Taytor (Geo. C.) Music Room Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by Geo. C. Taylor: 410 9p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
Tempe (J. P.) Emma Dale. Arranged for the piano forte. Words by Wm. N. Chambers. Music by J. P. Temple: 4to 4p — New Orleans, published by Wim. T. Mayo, 1850 — New York, by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Wm. T. Mayo, 9 April, 1850.
Emma Dale. Composed by J. P. Temple. Arranged for the guitar, by Thomas J. Marlen: 4to 3p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Tuere’s love for you and me. Words by the late Thomas Hood. Adapted and arranged by J. H. Hewitt: 4to 2p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
“ THERE’s magic in that little song ;” a popular Ballad. Arranged for the piano, by Mad’lle Anna Ablamowicz: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850.
(Same.) Arranged for the guitar.
“THEY say there is an echo there.’’? Music of the Alleghanians, Songs, Duetts, Glees, &c., No. 8.: 4to 5p— New York, published by William Hall & Son 1850; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 19 May, 1850.
Taomas (E.) ‘The dew is on the Blossom ;’? Serenade. Written by Amelie.
Music by E.Thomas. Arranged for the guitar: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W, C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.

<<<Page: 273>>>

TuorBeckE (Edward.) Aridante, for the organ or piano forte. Composed by Edward Thorbecke: 4to 5p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
The Boat Horn. Words by Gen. W. O. Butler. Composed by E. Thorbecke: 4to 5p— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850: deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850.
«Tou art gone away, Mary;”’ Ballad. Sung by Joseph H.M’Cann. Words by R. T. Cosby. Melody by a lady. Arranged for the piano forte, by H. J. Peters: 4to 2p—— Louisville, published by Peters & Webb, 1850; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May, 1850.
*©?Tys but an hour since first we met.’? Ballad, by W. Preston Wolley. Music arranged by William Cumming: 4to 6p— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850.
Trirtes; Song. Words taken from the Albany Express. Music composed
by the author of “ You and Me”’: 4to 5p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Boardman & Gray, 9 February, 1850.
Tucker (Henry.) The Maiden’s Tear. Words by J. R. Meeker, Esq. The music composed by Henry Tucker: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
The Forest Queen. Words by E. C. Hine, U.S. N. Composed by Henry Tucker: 4to 5p-— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 1k October, 1850.
Twiicnt Dews. Arranged for the guitar, by Lewis Tripp: 4to — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Uxperner (John.) My woodland home, I love thee well; Ballad. Com posed and arranged for the piano forte, by John Underner: 4to 6p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
I’d like to live in yonder star; a Ballad. Composed for the piano forte, by John Underner: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co. ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.
Medalena Polka. Composed by John Underner4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Varer (T. J.) “The blind boy’s been at play, Mother ;”’ as sung by the Apollonian Melodists. Written by Miss Eliza Cook: Quartette. Composed and arranged for the piano forte and Spanish guitar, by T. Je Vater: 4to 5p; deposited by T. J. Vater, 16 December, 1850.

<<<Page: 274>>>

319 faq
Very worst Polka (The). By Schlecter als Schlecht : 4to 5p — New York, published by Sidney Pearson, 1850; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 2 November, 1850.
Vient ah Vien; from La Favorita. Arranged by John C. Scherpf: 4to 2p — New York, published at Vanderbeek’s, 1850 ; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 15 October, 1850.
Virernta Rosebud. Being No. 5 of Songs of the Sable Harmonists. Arranged for the piano forte: 4to 4p — Louisville, Ky., Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, L850.
Waener (Ferdinand.) Coterie Waltz; as performed by Munck’s band. Composed by Ferdinand Wagner: 4to 7p —— New York, published at Vanderbeek’s, 1850; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850.
Waut (J. F.) The Bowling Green Waltz, for the piano. Composed by J. F. Wahl: 4to 5p—Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Watuace (W. Vincent.) Innocence ; Romance. Composed for the piaro forte, by W. Vincent Wallace: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co. ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 January, 1850.
Warren (Geo. W.) Old Haunts; Ballad. Composed by Geo. W. Warren: 4to 3p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April, 1850.
The Passions; Waltzes. Composed by Geo. W. Warren: 4to 7p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Love’s Twilight Star; as sung by Miss Electa Cone. Music composed by G. W. Warren. Arranged for the guitar, by Thomas Crouch: 4to 2p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
“Sunshine and Dew;” Ballad. Written by Lilly Graham. Composed by Geo. W. Warren: 4to 3p — New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wm. Hall
. & Son, 19 August, 1850.
Weser (C.H.) Missouri Waltz, for the piano. Composed by C. H. Weber: 4to— Louisville, published by H. J. Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Welset (Paul K.) Gaslight Schottisch. Composed for the piano forte, by Paul kK. Weisel: 4to 4p — published at Vanderbeek’s, 1850; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850.
Wetts (S. A.) ‘‘Philena, my dear, or, she dances so neatly.’’ Words and melody by S. A. Wells, Esq. Music arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway: 4to 5p— Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.

<<<Page: 275>>>

[ay 320
We ts (S. A.) “Poor Posey, or, She’s gon across de sandy plain.”” Words and melody by S. A. Wells, i Music arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway: 4to 5p— Boston, aie) byyA. & J.P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Wets (Charles.) Grand Funeral March; as played by Dodworth’s band, on the occasion of the funeral solemnities in the city of New York, to the memory of Gen. Zachary Taylor, July 23d, 1850. Composed by Chas. Wels: 4to 5p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
Werwore (W. J., M. D.) Cousin Carrie ; a Song. Written by Carl Linley. Composed by W. J. Wetmore, M. ‘D.: Ato 7p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co. 3 1850 ; deposited by W. J. Wetmore, 9 April, 1850.
Norah M’Shane; Ballad. Poetry by Miss Eliza
Cook. Music by W. J. W etmore : 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April, 1850.
Wurre (C.) ‘*Do not go away, my lady love.’? No 2 of Ethiopian Melodies of White’s Serenaders ; as sung a them at their concerts. Composed by C. White: 4to 5p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. (J. M.) Cleopatra Hyde; a Duett and Chorus. Words by Prof. Sligo. Music by J. M. White: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordw ay, 1850; deposited by A. & He P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
Witutams (T. H.) Petit Fantasie, for the harp, on the celebrated Ethiopian Melodies, ‘‘ Lousiana Belle,” “Uncle Ned,’”’ and “ Susannah.” Com} posed by T. H. Williams: 4to 11p — B altimore, pe blished by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 2 22 Apri, 1850. (Waters F.) I’m still unchanged to thee ; Ballad. Composed by Waters F. Willams: Ato 3p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, "Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850.
Wirson (J.) ‘Tell me how to woo thee ;” a beautiful Ballad. Written by M. Graham. Arranged for the guitar, by Frnncis. Music by J. Wilson: 4to — Louisville, publish ied by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Pees Webb & Co., 2: 5 May 1850.
(Same.) Arranged for piano.
Maiden’s Hendht: or, Despairing Mary. Words by T. C. Music by J. Wilson: 4to 59 — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposite od by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850.
Woopsvry (I. B.) Sweet Memories Waltz. Composed by I. B. Woodbary: 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1830 deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850.

<<<Page: 276>>>

Woovsury (I. B.) We’re all at home, or, When evening shadows. Composed by I. B. Woodbury: 4to 5p -— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.5:7 Tae) 1850.
Woopsory (I. B.) Elfin Quick-step, by I. B. Woodbury : 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
‘* Be kind to the loved ones at home ;’? Song, composed by I. B. Woodbury. Arranged for the guitar, by J. D. Anguera : 4to 6p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway : deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850.
‘* Be kind to the loved ones at home ;”? Song, composed byl. B. Woodbury. Arranged as a quartett, by J. B. Ordway : 4to 5p --Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October 1850.
‘Forget not the loved ones at home.’’ Written and composed by TL. B.W oodbury: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.,
7 June, 1850.
‘“Yr mariners of Spain;’’ Ballad, prmanges for the guitar as a duett, for two equal voices, by M. R. H.: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co. 1850 ; ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25. May, 1850.
(Same.) Arranged for the piano, by M. R. H.
“ You and I.”? Written by J. Francis, Esq. Arranged for the piano forte, by H. J. Peters: 4to 2p — Louisville, published by H. J. Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co., 25 May, 1850-
You and Me; Song. Words by the late Thomas Hood. Composed and dedicated with esteem, to “ Cally.’? Arranged with symphonies and accompaniments, for the piano forte: 4to 3p— Albany, published by Boardman & Gray, 1850; deposited by Boardman & Gray, 11 October, 1850.
Zoner (Maximilian.) The May Breezes. Words translated from the German, by Chas. G. Leland. Composed by M. Zorer: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.,9 February, 1850.
May Breezes Waltz. By Maximilian Zorer: 4to — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850.
The Bird and tte Snare. Words by C. G. Leland, Esq. Composed and arranged for tha Spanish guitar, by Max Zorer : 4to 2p —— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co.; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850.
The Bird and the Snare. Words from the German, by C. G. Leland, Esq. Composed by Max Zorer: 4to 4p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April, 1850. Mis.—21.

<<<Page: 277>>>

Ci] 329
Zorer (Max.) The May Breezes. Words from the German, by Chas. G. Leland, Esq. Music composed and arranged for the guitar, by Max Zorer: d4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & ee 1859; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 February, OU.
PART UI— LIST OF MAPS, CHARTS, PRINTS, and LABELS.
Aumanac Card. Deposited by William W. Rose, 9 July, 1850.
Betiryenam (O.) A Chart of the Signs furnished by Auscultation and Percussion, and of their application to the diagnosis of diseases of the lungs. Revised and arranged by P. Claiborne Gooch, A. M., M. D., &c., from the French of O. Bellingham, M. D. P. Made up from the works of Laénnec, Williams, Barth and Roger, Gerhard, Fournet, Spittal, and other high authorities. Published by Morris & Brother, Richmond, Va.; deposited by P. Ch. Gooch, 21 November, 1850.
Bon Samaritain (Le) de Moffat. Deposited by Wm. B. Moffat, M. D., 30 May, 1850.
Bostian (J. M.) Directions for measuring and draiting Garments, by the
tendon steel spring, by J. M. Bostian: 12mo 3lp — Sunbury, published by the Author, 1850; deposited by Jonathan M. Bostian. deposited, 28 December, 1850.
Brooks (L.) Perpetual Almanac ; showing the dominical letters, leap years, days of the month and week; and all dates, near and remote, past and future, with infallible accuracy, for ten thousand years from the beginning of the Christian Era, By L. Brooks: deposited by L. Brooks, 16 February, 1850.
Perpetual Almanac ; showing the dominical letters, leap years, days or the month and week; and all dates, near and remote, past and future, with infallible accuracy, for ten thousand years from the beginning of the Christian Era,
seven years; warranted accurate. Card: deposited by L. Brooks, 27 March, 1859.
Cuateau de la Grange, the birthplace of Lafayette. Print: deposited by J. P. M’Lean, 26 April, 1850.
Corrin (Eben S.) Tables, showing at one inspection, the difference of Latitude and Departure, on gee quarter point course for any distance under 60 miles: 8vo 2p— Boston, 1850; deposited by Eben S. Coffin, 25 July, 1850.
Compounp Syrup of Hops and Boneset. Label: deposited by C.W. H. Temple, 20 February, 1850.
DisturNELL’s (J.) new map of Central America, showing the different lines of Atlantic and Pacific communication — New York, pubished by J. Disturnell, 157 Broadway, 1850; deposited by J. Disturnell, 5 July, 1850.
New map of the United States and Canada, showing all the canals, railroads, telegraph lines, and principal stage routes. Drawn by Henry A. Burr, Topographer of the Post-office Department, Washington — New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1850; deposited by J. Disturnell, 15 July, 1850.
Eauarian Condition Powders. Label: deposited by W. H. Wyatt, 27 December, 1850.
Fannestock’s (B. A.) Vermifuge. Label: depcesited by Rawdon, Wright, Hatch & Edson.
FisHer (Samuel B.) and Suearer (P. W.) Map of the first and second anthracite coal-fields in Pennsylvania; embracing Schuylkill county, and parts of Carbon, Luzerne, Columbia, Northumberland, ‘Dauphin, and Lebanon counties, by Saciael B. Fisher and iP W. Sheafer : published by Robert P. Smith, 15 Minor street, Philadelphia ; deposited by R. P. Smith, 2 March, 1850.
Forsua’s Balm Liniment. Label: deposited by Samuel W. Forsha, 13 May, 1850.
Fow er’ s (2: G.) improved Model ; or, Dress-making made easy. With plain structions: vo Sp, ea chart — New York, Butler & Brow n, printers and wood engravers, 1850 ; deposited by P. G. Fowler, 29 October, 1850.
Goocu (P. Claiborne.) See: Bellingham (O.)
Hoorianp’s celebrated German Bitters. Circular and Engraving; depo-
sited by Dr. C. M. Jackson, 15 July, 1850.
Jewett (Stephen) & Co.’s Chromolith Card — Boston, Chromolith of J. H. Bufford & Co. ; deposited by S. Jewett & Co., 19 March, 13850.
Jewett (Stephen) & Co.’s highly and justly celebrated strengthening Plaster. Bufford & Co.’s Lithograph — Boston: Label ; ; deposited by S. Jewett & Co., 26 December, 1850.
Jewett (Stephen) & Co.’s highly celebrated Pulmonary Elixir. J. H. Bufford & Co.’s Lithograph — Boston: Label; deposited by S. Jewett & Co., 26 December, 1850.

<<<Page: 278>>>

Jewett (Stephen) & Co.’s celebrated health restoring Bitters. J. H. Bufford & Co.’s Lithograph — Boston: Label; deposited by S. Jewett & Co., 26 December, 1850.
Linp (Jenny,) in the Opera of La Somnambula. New York, Wm. Hall & Son: Print; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850.
Linp (Jenny.) New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850: Print; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850.
Liyp (Jenny,) in the Opera of La Fille du Regiment. New York, Wm. Hall & Son: Print; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850.
‘¢ Masrer’s Carpet,” by Sherer & Co., Pike street, between Congress and Third street, Cincinnati, 1850: Chart ; deposited by J. Sherer, 26 December, 1850.
Masury’s Compound Extract of Sarsaparilla and Wan-a-hoo. One copy of the wrapper used on the same, entitled ‘“‘ The Good Samaritan ;’’ deposited
by Rawdon, Wright, Hatch & Edson, 18 May, 1850. Vegetable Life Pills. New York, designed and engraved by Rawdon, Wright, Hatch & Edson: Label; deposited by
Rawdon, Wright, Hatch & Edson.
New Encuanp, New York and Canada. Sherman & Smith’s Railroad, Steamboat and Stage route map of New England, New York and Canada. By J. Calvin Smith — New York, published by Sherman & Smith, 1850; deposited by Sherman & Smith, 21 December, 1850.
Newmay’s portable Sun-dial and perpetual Calendar: A small Chart; deposited by James Newman, 1 July, 1850.
Pennineton & Co.’s aerial Steamship, or composite Balloon: A lithographic Print ; deposited by J. H. Pennington, 30 July, 1850.
Puusirer (John 8.) | John S. Pulsifer, Orwigsburg, Schuylkill county, Pa. ; deposited 21 December, 1850. :
Sant Pavt’s Travels. The Countries embraced within the Travels of St. Paul: A miniature map, on pasteboard; deposited by A. M. Wilder and Geo. W. Fitch, 15 February, 1850.
Smitn’s (A. A.) Chart of Elocution. Printed at the Telegraph book and job office, Ashtabula, Ohio ; deposited by A. A. Smith, 3 December, 1850.
Ssatu (Jas. B.) & Co.’s Philadelphia Blank Book Manufactory: Print ; deposited by Jas. B. Smith, 29 August, 1850.

<<<Page: 279>>>

325 ney
Sutrer (T. A.) An engraved likeness of T. A. Sutter. Painted by S. S. Osgood : engraved by J. Sartain ; deposited by S. S. Osgcod, 11 July, 1850.
Texas. Map of Texas, compiled from Surveys recorded in the General Land Office, by J. Eppinger and F. C. Baker, 1851. ‘‘ Map of New Mexico, California and Utah: deposited by Sherman & Smith, 21 "December, 1850.
Wasuincron’s Headguarters, from north-east, Newburg: Print; deposited by J. P. M’Lean, 26 April, 1850.
Youman’s Chart of Chemistry ; in which the fundamental laws and _ facts of the science, affinity, the composition and decomposition of bodies, combining equivalents, or definite and multiple proportions, ne atomic “theory, chrystallization, fermentation, isomerism, aie nomenclature and formula are illustrated to the eye in a clear and simple manner. Published by Edward L. Youmans and J. Richard Burdsall, New York, 1850 ; deposited by Ed-
ward L. Youmans, 18 December, 1850.

<<<Page: 280>>>

fares Res wall to rae Sprit: lowed 2 5 7 | Abel sath a 5 yaa a sion ae beigiqpatah » oa a OPrints vee col ee oy |
oes fern + Spud, eee, ws . w, 3S :
bo! rigor, ant Su wail. fégoewitatye aro, ei Tan eigenen i ro Jia,
cee, mt
eit tig f, oS git id fh.
avant free viva at sorasbaut t ‘ads did ee AT ena, faon anamroY ; te. ppitizoqatosahs fry i rent ode yi Sits | .dongme. ads to. ongregs and “40: fig olqittnen. figs Suma. WS walgole cup. et Shwe cole ~}. Sherer, “senori anobaiierst “iotiestaees yioed? dimot8 oF ito
ni OYS dete 02) f Satelit Hid Slime bits sunt wionamiod: alt tei bel ne i zamantont ied ye Baba oF HSH r atyidie itsmrig mie BR
Ben ar rarer Haas sie At ws Abel ai bale EOhae y Pome qrigs-
aa ei wl ye | ei OGHL ever 99th biredatert SL brent : a ; cy, “i : ne i ‘ tai = s ; i ere ae , ay 4 ihe % Jn wee oll Se * Aun er EM, = = ' Bat ; ies ‘ai ys yk ed ei it wen | } ne A a | P ’ | er ; oy ad 4 a te ; es ines a is a pereeie Me cs fra i . m7 ry Py J A Yahi an Me si at i ee panic ivy 7 Tew Pid cate bila IG tae i: hina 3 gaan alee 2. toute Se Pee ee i ae ly fhe ag ong neha, Re Sem ; : Se eo ee ee hate voihalind _ Sets BP Oa anes Ga oh isda a p77, eS , ul 1 > ae ebee th. a3 3 ‘De iy cs iii ve Ree ty | ” rd de ns J | Rw enteric are set ) yee sc alt eae
Se JME MOTEL A
Seals ba
POL Se
Sozethe (lus

<<<Page: 281>>>



<<<Page: 282>>>

hg = iy en ry, oleae
~~ a »
eee ee Oe ee 2 ee ae

<<<Page: 283>>>

SpecraL Session, ;
Read and ordered to be printed.
a — Wasuineton, March 8, 1851. To the Senate of the United States:
I beg leave to present an extract from the daily Journal of the General Assembly of Florida, printed by authority and for the use of that body, showing the proceedings and vote which took place on the 13th day of January last, in the choice of a Senator of the United States,’for the term commencing the 4th of March current.
It will be seen the President of the joint meeting announced there was no choice. In consequence whereof the legislature proceeded in several successive votings, untilon a subsequent day, it was announced that the Hon. Stephen R. Mallory was chosen.
After a careful examination of the subject, I have a strong conviction, that the first voting completed an election, that in fact and right, I was then duly and constitutionally chosen, and that all the subsequent proceedinos were therefore void.
It appears that I was the only person put in nomination—that no votes were given for any other eligible person—and that more than a majority of a quorum of the elective body declared me to be their choice.
It is understood that the legislature acted under an impression that the concurring voices of a major part of all the members elected to the two branches (the aggregate being fifty-nine) was necessary to a choice; and that number (to wit, thirty) not having declared for au eligible person no choice was thought to have been made.
If I was legally elected, as I believe to be the case, it is my duty to assert a right to the office; and as a failure to do so now, when the Senate is convened, and Rep. Com. March, 1851.
Relative to the construction to be given to the act of September 20, 1850, so far as tt relates to the Mileage of Senators from California.
Marcu 10, 1851.
Submitted and ordered to be printed,
Mr. Cooper made the following Report :
The Committee on the Judiciary, to whom was referred the resolution of the Senate directing the said committee to inquire and report whether the act of Congress of the 20th of September, 1850, so far as the same relates to the mileage of the Senators from California, is permanent or temporary in its provisions,
That they have carefully considered the provisions of the aforesaid act, and are of opinion that so much of the same as provides “ that the mileage of the Senators and Representatives from California, and the Delegate from Oregon, be computed and paid, according to the most usual travelling route within the limits of the United States,” is permanent; and that the mileage of the Senators from the State of California, should be ascertained and paid in pursuance of this provision.
In Senate oF THE UNITED STATEs, March 8, 1851. On motion of Mr. Hunter, Resolved, That the President of the Senate, having stated to the Senate a question as to the true construction of the act of the 20th September, 1850, in relation to the mileage of the Senators from California : Ordered, That it be referred to the Judiciary Committee, to inquire and report whether the said act so far as relates to the mileage of the Senators of California is permanent or temporary in its provisions. (Attest,) ASBURY. DICKENS, Secretary.

<<<Page: 284>>>

Ty 2
Submitted to the President of the Senate pro tempore. ASBURY DICKENS, Secretary of the Senate.
SenaTE CuamsBer, March —— 1851.
Assury Dickens, Esq., Secretary of the Senate.
Sra i—In my letter to you of the 30th September last, in relation to my mileage as a Senator, I stated the distance, in conformity with the provision of the act of 20th September, 1850, to be five thousand and ten miles coming, and the same returning. That act, however, being only a temporary one, and operative only upon the then session, no longer applies to the subject ; and I now request you to state my mileage at six thousand eight hundred and fifty-three miles from my place of residence in California, to Washington, and the same returning, in conformity with the act of 22d January, 1818. This is strictly in accordance with the unanimous decision of the committee on mileage of the House of Representatives, in fixing the mileage of the Representative from my State, at the session
just expired. A copy of that decision is appended. ; WM. M. GWIN.
Wasuineron, D. C., February 27, 1851. To the Members and Senators from California.
GENTLEMEN :—I have received your letter of yesterday, requesting my opinion as regards the mileage to which you are entitled by existing laws, for the last and present session of Congress. As to the last session, I think mileage is regulated by the proviso to the first section of the act of 20th September, 1850, page seventy-two, entitled “‘ An act to supply a deficiency in the appropriation for pay and mileage of members of Congress for the present session.”’
The appropriating clause as well as the title, apply only during “ the present session,’ (1849-50.) To that clause, providing for your mileage at that session, is appended a proviso, limiting the charge under that appropriation, to a computation according to “the most usual travelling route within the limits of the United States.”’ I feel, therefore, constrained to say, that your mileage, in my judgment, at the last session, must be governed by that proviso. ;
As to your mileage at this session, until otherwise provided by law, I thinkit is governed by the act of January 22,1818, (8 Stat. at Large, 404.) That act fixes the mileage and per diem of members of Congress by a permanent law applying in all time to come, until repealed or modified hereafter, in relation to old as well as new members, and so universally conStrued. It is entitled “ An act allowing compensation to the members of the Senate, members of the House of Representatives of the United States, and to the delegates of the Territories, and repealing all other laws on that subject.”

<<<Page: 285>>>

It is provided in the first section of this act, ‘‘ That at every session of Congress, and every meeting of the Senate in the recess of Congress, after the third day of March, one thousand eight hundred and seventeen, each Senator shall be entitled to receive eight dollars for every day he has attended or shall attend the Senate, and shall also be allowed eight dollars for every twenty miles of estimated distance, by the most usual road from his place of residence to the seat of Congress, at the commencement and end of every such session and meeting; and that all sums for travel already performed, to be due and payable at the time of passing this act.”
It must be conceded that your mileage at this session, is governed by
this act, unless the proviso before quoted should be ruled to apply. In my judgment that proviso has no application beyond the session of 1849-50, for the following reasons :
The proviso is attached to ‘‘ the act to supply a deficiency in the appropriation for pay and mileage of members of Congress for the present session.” The first section of that act are in these words:
**That the sum of one hundred and sixty thousand dollars be, and the same is hereby appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the payment of mileage and per diem of Senators, members of the House of Representatives and delegates in Congress at the present session; two thousand three hundred and “thirty dollars for additional expense for stationary for members of the House of Representatives during the present session; Provided, That the mileage of the Senators and Representatives from California and the delegate from Oregon, be computed according to the most usual travelling route within the limits ot the United States; and the per diem of said Senators and Representatives for this session, shall commence for the day on which the Constitution of California was first communicated to the two houses of Congress respectively.”
It will be perceived, that the operation of the law is limited in the body of the act as well as in the title to “‘ the present session.”? The act then being confined in its very terms to the dast session, the proviso to that act can only have an operation in point of time co-extensive with that of the law itself. This is the general and well established rule in the construction of statutes, that if the operation of an act is limited therein to a specified period, a proviso to that act must have a similar limitation, unless it is otherwise expressly declared in the proviso.
This general rule of construction apples still more strongly to the annual appropriation laws of Congress, and with irresistible force to all annual appropriations for deficiencies. If, however, any doubt could remain as regards this question, it must be removed, on reference to the decision of the Supreme court of the United States, in the case of Minis versus the United States, (15 Peters, 423.)
In that case, the question was, whether a proviso to an annual appropriation bill of Congress was permanent in its operation, or expired with the termination of the year for which the appropriation was made. It was the unanimous opinion of the court that the effect of the proviso was temporary, and commensurate only as to time with the operation of the law.
The views of the court on this point are given at pages 445-6-7, and would seem to be conclusive. The court say ‘ the argument on behalf ‘‘of the United States is, that this proviso although found in a mere appro‘*priation law of a limited nature, is to be construed by reason of the words

<<<Page: 286>>>

eae 4
“<¢ or for any other service or duty whatsoever unless authorized by law,’ ”” to be permanent in its operation, and applicable to all future appropriations, where officers of the army are employed in such service or duty ; and that it appears from the record, that this was the very ground on which the Treasury Department rejected the claim of Doctor Minis for commissions. The same question has been made and fully argued in the case of Gratiot vs. the United States, at the present term, and we have given it our deliberate consideration. We are of opinion that such is not the true interpretation of the terms of the proviso; and that it is limited exclusively to appropriations made at the session of eighteen hundred and thirty-five.
“Tt would be somewhat unusual to find engrafted upon an act making “special and temporary appropriations, any provision which was to have ‘a general and permanent application to all future appropriations. Nor ‘ought such an intention on the part of the legislature to be presumed, “unless it is expressed in the most clear and positive terms, and where “the language admits of no other reasonable interpretation. The office ‘‘ of a proviso generally, is either to except something from the enacting “‘clausé or to qualify or restrain its generality, or to exclude some pos“sible ground of misinterpretation of it, as to extending to cases not in“‘tended by the legislature to be brought within its purview. <A ‘general rule, applicable to all future cases, would most naturally be ‘expected to find its proper place in some distinct and independent en“actment.”’
Indeed, that was a much stronger case than this, for in that case, the words used in the proviso might have been construed to give it a permanent operation. There are no such words in this proviso. On the contrary, the words “during the present session,” immediately precede the proviso, and are directly connected with it, and to construe this proviso as permanent, is to violate the express language and manifest intention of the law and the settled rules of construction.
In conclusion, I entertain no doubt, that if the question were before-the Supreme court of the United States, it would be decided unanimously by that tribunal, upon the principles adopted by them in the case of Minis before quoted, that the effect of this proviso was temporary and limited by the operation of the act to which it was appended, and that as regards all future sessions of Congress, the mileage of the Members and Senators from California must be governed by the act of 22d January, 1818, until otherwise provided by law.
Very respectfully, Your obedient servant,
(Signed) R. J. WALKER.
Orrice oF THE SERGEANT-AT-ARMS, House of Representatives, March 3, 1851.
I certify that the Committee on Mileage of the House of Representatives have unanimously reported as follows, in reference to the mileage of the members from the State of California :
‘There having been no special provision regulating the mileage of the

<<<Page: 287>>>

‘representatives from California, for this (second session thirty-first Con‘‘oress,) the committee are constrained to allow their mileage in con‘“‘formity with the law of January 22, 1818. I accordingly so direct. “The ‘most usually travelled road,’ appearing to be by Panama, their “mileage will be computed by that route. ** (Signed) GRAHAM N. FITCH, Marcu 3, 1851. “ Chairman Committee on Mileage.”
In conformity with the above report, the following amounts have been allowed and paid : To Hon. G. W. Wright, (Stockton,) 7,013 miles. To Hon. Edward Gilbert, (San Francisco,) 6,853 miles. A. J. GLOSSBRENNER, Sergeant-at-Arms House of Representatives, U. S.

<<<Page: 288>>>

Vora ‘nee on i a rt ' ; oh ab uh wht mony \ "Oi vf Ve cpr: eM ome
wyelt We walla»
Hy nm solan”> an wy
teull
ay) ot r. ae a
sh tenon we i ners a {hap it “9 ; r ah A ep wae Ths gr OG , an y ‘ ; : G4 i Viola to ee chiar maa Ae \ ofr vy ‘sea on ye Se WARY) Bee wie as ~~. 2
<q ‘deacg
mm & Ao

<<<Page: 289>>>

SpEcIAL SEssIoN, EXEcurive,
March, 1851. No. &. REPORT THE SECRETARY OF WAR,
In compliance with a resolution of the Senate, copies of the orders by which Brevet Colonel Plympton was assigned to duty according to his brevet rank, together with the correspondence in relation thereto.
Marcu 1, 1851. Ordered to lie on the table.
Marcu 7, 1851.
Ordered to be printed.
War DEPARTMENT, Vashington, February 28, 1851.
Sra: In compliance with a resolution of the Senate of the 26th instant, { have the honor to submit herewith ‘‘a copy of General Order No. 47, ‘dated, 27th December, 1850, issued from the War Department, by which ‘ Brevet Colonel J. Plympton, Lieutenant Colonel of the 7th Infantry, was ‘assigned to duty according to his brevet rank, whilst stationed at Jeffer‘son Barracks, and under which he was assigned to the command at that ‘post; together with all correspondence and other documents connected ‘with said order.”
By virtue of this order, Colonel Fauntleroy, of the Ist Regiment of Dragoons, was superceded in the command of that post. Both these officers are ‘in the line of the army ;’? Colonel Fauntleroy is senior by ordinary rank to Lieutenant Colonel Plympton, but the latter is superior by brevet rank, and consequently, in the view of the Department, when assigned to duty according to that rank, became the superior of Colonel Fauntleroy. The laws under which the abov e order was issued, were the 6lst and 62d Articles of War.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, C. M. CONRAD, Secretary of War. Hon. Wn. R. Krve, President of the Senate.

<<<Page: 290>>>

Pay 2
General Order, No. 47, December 27, 1850.
Letter of Colonel Fauntleroy to the President, February 6, 1851, enclosing copy of Memorial addressed to the Senate by Army Officers at Corpus Christi, in December, 1845, on the subject of General Scott’s letter of November, 1845: and report of Senate Committee on the said Memorial, in March, 1846.
Letter of C. M. Fauntleroy to the Secretary of War, January 19, 1851, enclosing letter of J. K. Barnes.
Xemarks of Major General Scott on Colonel Fauntleroy’s letter, February 11) 1858.
Decision of the President and Secretary of War, upon Colonel Fauntleroy’s case, February 16, 1851.
War DEPARTMENT, Adjutant General’s Office, Washington, December 27, 1850. GENERAL Orpers—No. 47.
Brevet Colonel J. Plympton, Lieutenant Colonel 7th infantry, is as~ signed to duty according to his brevet rank while stationed at Jefferson Barracks, and will assume command of the post.
By order, L. THOMAS, Assistant Adj. General.
Wasuineton, D. C., February 6, 1851. To the Hon. C. M. Conran, Secretary of War.
Sir:—I have the honor to enclose a letter to the President of the United States, on the subject of General Orders No. 47, dated ‘War Department, Adjutant General’s Office, Washington, December 27, 1850,”’ which I desire to forward through you, together with the copy of the memorial from the officers of the army from Corpus Christi, in 1845.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, THOS. T. FAUNTLEROY, Colonel First Regiment Dragoons.

<<<Page: 291>>>

3 object to. the order first, on the ground that it is irregular, as will appear on its face, in omitting the name of the commander by whom it was given, (see par. 908 General Ree. of the Army, 1847.)
By this es Sits in the case of the most ‘ordinary order that can come trom the Adjutant General’s Office in the common routine of every day business, this fact must be made to appear on the face of the order, but when we know that this order should and could come alone from the President, the rule will not be rendered Jess important, as a regulation, but of infiuitely greater moment to the officer affected, (see 62d Article of War.) This article i is law and not regulation, and es the senior officer of the line, on duty in garrison, with rights that can only be divested by the President himself. "The power here given 1s evidently out of the usual course of orders, and when exercised, it becomes of infinitely greater importance that the officer whose interests are involved should be fully advised of the source from which it proceeds. The words are used in the article applica

<<<Page: 292>>>

law is passed by Congress, the President is required to sign it to make it valid; this can be done by no other and make the law valid. He has the power to veto a law—no other functionary can do this and invalidate a law. The power of appointment of officers to the army is given to the President; no other appointment would be effectual. The President can strike an officer from the rolls of the army ; it cannot be supposed that any one could be substituted for him in the exercise of this highly delicate authority. It is not unworthy of remark, precisely at this point, that no where is brevet rank made subservie ' to any officer connected with the army or under the government, save » President of the United States over and above them, the necessity for the President to exercise this power himself and none other, arising from the fact that the law s: ays so, (see 62d Article of War, par. 183 and 15, General Reg. of the Army 1847,) an argument by no means insignificant may also be derived from the words used j in the Article of War itself, “ace ordine to the nature of the case.” An allusion is here evidently made to the existence of circumstances which may vary in their character, and call for the special pEmen and discretion of the President ; and it may well be supposed that an officer whose rights were thus to be disposed of, would feel himself entitled to this special judement and discretion. It is no disparagement to any one to say that an officer would feel his rights and interests more secure, under the ca ision of the President than under any other officer of inferior grade. It is an irresistible inference that the law so intended and so construed it, when this pe was thus personally and speci ifically delegated. It is not improbable t oo, that prejudices take root in the army and grow rank; and it is by no means’ wonderful that an officer who has secured to him by existing laws, the free and impartial judgment of the Chief Magistrate of the nation, upon points touching his character, rank and honor, should be unwilling to trust his fortunes to the decision of a fatal bias, that perchance may have had its origin in the hot bed of controversial ec emeni , and be at least unfavorable to dispassionate decision. It may well be imagined that the law was made _ to guard against evils of this kind, and sure ly if there were none other to fear, this alone would be sufficient to vindicate its wisdom and foresight.
As the dictum has been put out by an officer high in rank, that brevets are equal to commissions in the line, from which if true, it might be argued that assignment would be unnecessary by any one; I would beg leave to remark that if this proposition be me ‘ontrovertible, there would ‘be an end to all law on the subject and the 62d Article of War be waste paper. If brevets convey full, positive, potential rank, how is it that officers daily sit on courts martial in their own corps, and ieucis are wholly impotent, not contended for, not even discussed, as if by iy they could take effect there? This could by no means be the case brevet commissions were full and complete commissions, competent to ull purposes of military command, and in this respect standing on precisely the same footing as in the British service. It has been also said and written by an officer high in rank, ‘ with respect to staff officers in the presence of seniors assionment by the common senior was necessary, (see Major General Scott’s letter to General Taylor, November 17, 1915.) This same officer has written, it is perfectly obvious from the whole structure of the article, (61st article,) that regimental officers’ brevets only are restricted, and that too only within the regiment or other established corps; (see letter to Secretary at War, February, 1827.) In the same letter, page 41, the following case is put:

<<<Page: 293>>>

not been so. But the effect of this order is inevitably of such a nature, as to humiliate and degrade not actually from command alone, but im the general inferential estimate of my companions in service. ‘This order was given whilst I was in command: can there be a doubt but that its effect would be just as I state when it was not preceded by one of removal from the post? This would have been one of the easiest things in the world, and
: a my character in some degree saved. It would even afterwards have been
remediable, by a rescission of the order in question, before ordermg me from my post; but this has not been done, another injury has however still further been done me. I have been ordered to another post, to make room for my junior in rank whom I had commanded. The first order still remains and the imputation remains with all its consequences. I ask the President confidently, to interpose his just power and authority in his high capacity of constitutional commander-in-chief of the army -of the United States to relieve an officer from an odium which has been imposed without cause, and which if permitted to continue must render his commission comparatively valueless. With sentiments of the highest respect, I have the honor to be your obedient servant, THOS. T. FAUNTLEROY, Col. First Regiment U.S. Dragoons.
N. B. The attention of the President is respectfully called to a copy of the memorial of the officers at Corpus Christi sent to Congress in 1545, which is herewith sent.
To the President of the Senate : .
Sir:—The undersigned, officers of the United States, feel themselves: imperatively called upon to present their opinions upon the subject of brevet rank, and respectfully ask that the same may be laid before the Senate of the United States, in order that the subject may be properly brought before Congress, to the end that a question which has more or less agitated the army ever since the war of 1812, may be legally and finally put to rest.
The immediate occasion we now have for presenting this to your attention may be seen in a letter from the Head Quarters of the army, under the direction of the Major General commanding the army, dated ‘* Adjutant General’s office, Washington, November 17, 1845,”’ addressed to brevet Bricadier General Taylor, and which was printed ‘as a circular for the information of the army,” by order of the Major General commanding, on the 19th of November, 1845. Copies of this letter, it is presumed, may be had at the office of the Adjutant General of the army. ‘The letter appears to have been written in reply to certain questions on the subject of brevet rank, submitted by brevet Brigadier General Taylor, which seem to have been proposed with a view of obtaining the decision of His Excellency the President of the United States. The General-in-chief proceeds to say, that

<<<Page: 294>>>

9 Lis
the letter of General Taylor was “ promptly laid before the Secretary of War, for the consideration of the highest in authority; but that by desire of the Secretary of War, (he not having leisure at this time fully to examine the question himself, ) the General-in-chief gives the following as his own general answers to the queries proposed by General Taylor; and then follows the answers of the General-in-chief, (see Appendix A.)
We cannot avoid expressing our regret that the questions submitted by General Taylor, did not reach the “ highest i in authority,”’ for we are persuaded that the unprejudiced and uncommitted mind of that hieh functionary, would have found ample reason to re-afhrm the decisions of his predecessors in office, and which have been, as we believe, invariably adverse to the opinions of Major General Scott. We know that the opinions of the late President Adams were of this character, and that a comprehensive and remarkably “lucid report upon this subject was made by General Porter,
whilst Secretary of War, under the administration of Mr. Adams, adverse = the views of General Scott, which report was printed by order of the Senate or House of Representatives, and a) be found among the printed documents of Congress about the year 1828. We further know that President Jackson in a formal order published to the army in the year 1829, decided the question of brevet rank, also adverse to the views of General] Scott; the principles of which decision contined for a time to govern the army, but they have been gradually, step by step, undermined and must now be regarded as abrogated, if the principles expressed in the letter of the 17th of November, 1845, are to be considered valid. We repeat that we deeply regret that the peculiar position of Major General Scott, with respect to the brevet question, did not restrai him from acceding to the “ desire of the Secretary of War,” and prevail with him to withhold from the army the expression of his “indivienal opinion, sustained as it is, by the weight of his authority and high character, upon this much controverted subject, in which he had been through a great part of his life an interested controversialist, which makes it impossib! e to suppose that his opinions can be unbiased, without regarding him as possessing a nature elevated above that of humanity. We believe that in common with the rest of the army, he might well have been willing to trust the decision of the question to the constitutional Commander-in-chief of the army, and that it would have sustained his character for magnanimity, had he carefully and studiously abstained from forestalling and anticipating the decision of the Executive.
It is not our wish, however, to occupy your time by general reflections upon matters, which, however pertinent in themselves, may be regarded as collateral and aside from what we hope to exhibit as a clear argumentative view of the brevet question, and will therefore proceed at once to the merits of the question itself.
In all the questions of controversy, where men are divided in opinion, there must be some point where men separate from a common ground of argument; and on a close examination this will always appear to be among conscientious men, either the misunderstanding of some fact or the misap~ prehension or misapplication of some principle. We expect to show with the utmost clearness, that the real ground of what we regard as the erroneous views of Major General Scott, so far as those views assume the appearance of argument founded on law, i is the assumption of a wrong principle, one of the most erroneous and dangerous that has ever been discussed

<<<Page: 295>>>

(1] 10
among men; a principle which has been warred against ‘by the intelligence and liberty ‘of nations since the dawn of modem history ; a principle by which King John was brought into conflict with -his nobles, which «compelled him so far to relinquish it as to-sign the great charter regarded as the foundation of English liberty; a principle in the struggle to support which, Charles I, was brought to the block; a principle the partial destruction of en deluged ¥ rance with the blood of her people, and that is the principle of the despot, claiming to rule by Divine right, and regard~ ing itself as possessed of all power, except so far as in early ages it was restrained by the blind law of sie but which has been in more recent times, put under some eae by laws, emanating from the wisdom and Jove of liberty of the people. We find this principle stated in the letter of Major General Scott in the following few words, to wit: ‘All military rank, derived from law, must be equally valid, except so far only, as it may be restricted by law.”
In these few words we see, indeed, that it is implied that military rank must be derived from law, which in this country is certainly true, but we see also that it claims for military rank, validity for all purposes, except se far as it may be restricted by law; and this is the despotic principle upon which. General Scott’s argument rests; thus placing in the foreground a false principle instead of that true one, congenial to the genius of ae g0vernment, that all military rank is valid so “far, only, as made so by law, and not in so far as it is not restricted by law.
To see the force of this, we appeal to the Constitution of ‘the United States, an instrument by which the people or the States have created, by a grant of powers, what we call the general government, the power of which is not valid where not restricted, but valid only so far as granted; all pow~ ers not granted being expressly reserved to the people or the States: and
this principle appertains to every officer, both civil and military, created under the government, not one of whom has or can have, one particle of power which is not granted by law.
General Scott infers upon hisprinciple, that brevet rank is valid to the full extent of lineal rank, except so far as it is restricted by the 61st, 63d and 98th Articles of War; but why he has confined the: extension of it to lineal rank he has not explained, which he should have done, since upon his principle, brevet rank must be equally valid in all the stalf corps of the Bray for in the Articles of War there is found no restriction upon brevet rank forbidding those who hold it from claiming rank and consideration in these staff corps. If this be so, and General Scott’s principle be correct, there is no reason why not only brevet officers but line officers also, should not claim rank and consideration in all or any of the staff corps respecsively ; F for even the 63d Article of War does not restrict line officers from assuming rank and consideration in the corps of engineers, but restricts the engineers from being subject to be ordered on any “duty bey ond the line of their immediate profession, except by special order of the President of the United States. What answer can be made to this other than by setting up the true principle in opposition to that of General Scott, to wit: that the officers of the various corps and departments of the army have such power and privileges of rank as are granted to them by law, and not such as those wherein they are not restricted by law; and how can it be pretended that brevet rank is exempt from the operation of this principle, or how can the assumption be defended that brevet rank is valid for all purposes except

<<<Page: 296>>>

is [ay
wherein it is restricted by law, instead of regarding it as a creation of statute law, and thus looking to the law itself to ascertain its rights and privileges? So far then from regarding the 61st Article of War (as General Scott does) in a negative light, as restrictive in its principle, it can only be considered as positive, and as containing within itself a grant of power and rights to brevet rank, and what is not therein, or in some other law, granted to brevet rank, it neither has, nor can have, under our free institutions.
In order to show that the design of Congress, in the creation of brevet rank in our service was entirely in accordance with these, to us, clear principles, we have only to look at the history of the service. We shall see that Congress reserved to the Senate of the United States the power, and made it the duty also of the Senate, to advise and consent to the commissions of officers of the army, and this too where officers attained to rank even by regular succession upon the occurrence of vacancies. But they did not require during a period of many years this advice and consent of the Senate in the case of brevet commissions. This peculiarity cannot have originated in a disposition to clothe the President with powers to grant brevet commissions at pleasure, with the intention that brevet rank should be valid, as General Scott supposes, for all purposes except where restricted by law; and it can only be understood as implying the belief that brevet rank is chiefly an honorable distinction, the aie nce of gallantry, ability, or good conduct, and not possessing powers by which it would come into conflict with the advised and consented to commissions of other officers except under the direct sanction of law, as under the Gist Article of War.
When, however in course of time it appeared, as we suppose, that the distinguishing characteristic of brevet rank was somewhat obscured by the too frequent ‘and indiscriminate grant of it by the President, the Congress of the United States saw fit to require that brevet Commissions, In common with all others in the army, should be submitted to the Senate of the United States, and this is now the law of the land.
It cannot escape observation, that President Jackson and Secretary Porter, whose opinions have been referred to, had both been distinguished soldiers, and that the former continued for several years a Major General in the army after the close of the war of 1812. President Jackson was intimately acquainted with the question of brevet rank, and no less acquainted with the feelings of the army upon the whole subject; neither had he ever been brought into collision with brevet rank in his own person, and must thus be supposed to have been in the most desirable condition to form an accurate and unbiased opinion in relation to that rank. ‘That opinion was, as already observed, the very opposite to that now published to the army by the Major General commandir ix, (see Appendix B,) which is a copy of the order i President Jackson, on the subject of brevet rank. It will be seen at a glance, that the principal portion of it has been almost literally transcribed intone General Regulations of 1841 for the army, as may be seen by a comparison of it with the 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th paragraphs of those regulations, and of which the 11th, 14th, 15th and 16th paragraphs are now designated for the information of the army by the General-in-chief, as “more or less repugnant to law, and therefore so far null and void.
The possible contingent. alternatives to which officers of the army may feel themselves reduced by these conflicting opinions and authorities of the highest officers of the government, compelling officers on both sides of the

<<<Page: 297>>>

fa}. 12
question to assert their supposed rights at the hazard of their commissions, and if need be their lives, cannot fail to be of the most dangerous character, “prejudicial to good order and military discipline,” if not threatening their entire destruction; and to this allusion, the undersigned would with all solemnity desire to call the serious attention of Congr ess, as a point of suffieient importance in itself to show the necessity for legislation upon this subject.
It is not our design to enter into a minute criticism of the-details of the letter of the 17th of November, believing it to have been sufficient to have
shown, as we think we have shown, that its main feature and leading principle, is a false one, wholly alien to the genius of all free gov ernments | that it is a despotic principle with which the reason and intellience of man has been in conflict for ages; but nevertheles we cannot help adverting to a remarkable Soateaahened on the face of the letter, which shows how completely the General-in-chief was blinded by his prec onceptions anil determinations. He sets forth that “paragraphs 11, 14, 15 and 16, in the General Regulations for the army, (1841,) are all more or less repugnant to the law of the land, and Piereione to that extent nu!l and void ;’’ and he undertakes to show ‘this, | ry claiming for officers holding staff ad brevet
rank by virtue of their commissions, positive rights under ‘the Gist and 62d Rules and Articles of War. These rights, as he supposes, they are re-
stricted in the exercise of, by those paragraphs of the Regulations for the army. And yet towards the close of his letter, he says, that “in respect to staff officers in the presence of seniors, assignment by the common se-
nior is necessary, because to him it belongs to. say whether such officers may, without prejudice to statt duties and the rights of others, be assigned to the command of troops.’’ In other words, the President ne the United States cannot in General Scott’s view, restrict staff officers in the exercise of the rights they hold under the law, but a subordinate commander on a distant station, separated from all iamiadiate appeal to the commander-inchief, may pesehiat those officers in the exercise of those same rights, and may detains when they shall or shall not be assigned to the command of troops.
We cannot close this communication, without remarking, that we fully appreciate and believe, we understand the real intention and importance of brevet rank, and that the noble emulation it may give rise.to in the army, when properly regulated, is of mcalculable value. But when not properly. reculated, when rights and privileges are unlawfully added to the honors of
that rank, making an unholy conjunction, the rank itself will be sought for
under the influence of lowered, not to say degraded inpulses. ‘Those have little knowledge of human nature, who do not perceive, that just so far as an unworthy object can be sought for under the cloak of a noble one, the means employed in its pursuit, will by a necessary contagion, become adapted to the inferior object and take their character from it; and it is from this cause, as we believe, that some few have resorted to means and shifts to obtain the advantages of brevet rank, which men of unperverted feeling would not deign to use. By these remarks, we trust you will perceive ‘that we do not aim to destroy brevet rank, but to purify it, by elevating it to an honor possessing only lawful privileges, and divesting it of those
xtrinsic advantages that have gathered around it by an unlawful war upon the proper rights and privileges of the line of the army. We believe this object would “be fully attained by a declaratory act of Congress, affirming

<<<Page: 298>>>

that the rights of brevet rank shall be deemed to be valid, so fur only as they exist by positive grants of law, and no farther; adding that a detachment is a body of troops sent from the main body to perform a particular service and to be absent for a limited time. We therefore submit for your consideration, and through you, for the consideration of the Congress of the United States, the propriety and necessity of passing such a declaratory act.
It will be perceived that this communication has thus far a special reference to the unlawful extension of the rights of brevet rank; but we desire to add that, in regard to the principles of the letter of the 17th of November, on the subject of the staff, we feel called upon to express our dissent from the correctness of those principles. We have been accustomed for many years to regard what is called rank, in the organization of the Quarter Master’s department, as rank in that deparlment, and so also the rank of officers in the Commissary and other departments of the army, has heen regarded as rank in those dep partments respectiv ely; and we are perSuamed ‘it was not designed by Congress to authori 4 the officers of those departments to exercise command in the line. The first encroachment by which the officers of the Quartermaster’s depart tment, since its establishment under present laws, began to consider themselves possessed of the night of command in the line, was in 1836, when an officer of that departinent was assigned to the command in the Creek country and subsequently in Florida. it was not until several weeks after the arrival of troops at this place, that an order was oo from the Major General commandng the army (see general order No. 44, 1845,) assigning several officers of
he Quartermaster’s department to duty with the army of occupation, conret a significant paragraph in the followi ing words: “they will be obeyed and respected according to their rank in the army.” ‘This order on the face of it implies the promulgation of anew principle in regard to staff officers, as il their rank in the army had not hitherto been properly respected. ‘The princip! es of the letter of the 17th November can leave no doubt as to the origin and purpose of that clause in the order referred to. The order that the officers of the Quarterm: ister’s department are to be ‘‘respected according to their rank in the army,” is now by the letter of the 17th of November, to be understood as a command that they are to be respected according to their rank in | the line of | the army. ‘The senior officer of that department now with us, a Colonel in the staff, micht de-
clare that if his seniors in rank were to leave the army of occupation, he would assume the command, and this position we have a right to Suppose would be sustained by the Generalinet! hief, notwithstanding the 62d Article of War, which requires that the commanding officer shall have a commission ‘‘of the line.’’
What then has become of the distinction between the line and the staff recognized in all our laws, those passed during the war and subsequently ? (see ‘Cross’ laws, 1838.) Tt will be seen that where the legislation is for the “army of the Unite d States,’ the act of Congress is so “ae fined as the act June 26, 1812,* in the 5th section of which the lines of artillery, light artillery, dragoons, riflemen and infantry are distinctly named. Sometimes the legislation is for ‘an additional military force,’’ as the act of January 0: 1813. Again, the legislation is for the “better organization of the
* Vide, also sec. 12, act Marc! 29, 1814,

<<<Page: 299>>>

cay 14
general staff of the army’’—as the act March 3, 1813, in which there ts no legislation for the line, the line not being miencientae except where authority is given to transfer officers from the line to flee: staff, as in section. 4, &c. Occasionally we find acts of Congress for particular branches of the staff, as that of the 2d August, 1812, and that of February 8, 1815.. ‘The act of April 14, 1818, like that of March oy HOES ns fons regulating the staff of the army ;”’ and this act is iinmediately followed i in Cross’ laws. by the act of April 16, 1818, for “regulating the pay and emoluments of brevet officers,’? which act is exclusively contined to that distinct class. of officers.
A few years ago, and down to about the 17th of November last, the expressions lineal rank: staff rank and brevet rank, had each a cane if not: a definite meaning, and it would have been as caraiierial to undertake to. prove that a man is a man, or a horse a horse, as to attempt to. prove that lineal rank was one thing, staff rank another, and brevet rank still another ; but by the new principles just now communicated by the General-in-chief, ‘for the information of the army,”’ those old distinctions are all broken up.. Brevet rank now means lineal rank, and staff rank is par excellence lineal
rank, while lineal rank is neither staff rank nor brevet rank.. Whether it is wise to regard the line of the army (we use the expression in its old and familiar sense,) as a mere convenience for the staff corps or not, must be decided by the government of the country. Officers of the staff, by the late order and by the letter of the 17th November, may exercise eommand in the line, but in their own departments can elevate themselves, and say to the line, ‘“‘stand aside, we are better than thou; we-.can exercise command in your branch of the service, but you must not presume to give an order in ours.” How many years it will require under the operation of these principles, ne break down the line of the army, will be estimated differently according to meri’s sensibility to honor ; but the most dull and stupid must see that “the usual order of military organization is now to be reversed and the line of the army converted into an appendage to the staff. The wisdom of Congress micht well consider the probable effect of this state of things upon the efficiency and character of the army, and by timely legislation prov ide against a consummation of evil in store for the country, under existing pretensions, orders and the letter of the 17th of November. The | Major General commanding, has in that letter, but just now announced the discovery, that the 11th, (4th, 15th and 16th paragraphs of the General Reculations for the army, published by authority of the President of the U nated States, are more or less in conflict with law, and so far “ null and void.’ If the General-in-chief is thus forward to declare to the army that the regulations of the President, the constitutional Commander-in-chief of the army, are null and void, he ought not to be surprised if he should find among his subordinates in the army, not a few who might be both able and willing to emulate his example and improve under his instructions, until his own orders and letters may be pronounced @Jlegal, null and void.
To guard against this extremity we would respectfully suggest that the provisions of the 63d Article of War, omitting the first paragraph, might be extended beyond the Engineers so. as to include the other staff corps and departments of the army; as the undersigned cannot entertain a doubt was the intention of Congress in the organization of those corps and departments.
We would in conclusion declare, one and all there has been no “ meeting

<<<Page: 300>>>

15 an
for discussion’? on the subject embraced in this communication, and neces sarily no opportunity for arranging the details or the manner of presenting it, so as to guard against the possibility of passages that might seem to be: exceptionable; and we therefore desire it to be distinctly understood, that we disclaim all intention of personality in affixing our signatures to this communication; and we emphatically declare that our only object is to present the subject in such form, as to awaken attention in the great deliberative and legislative body of the nation, who have the power and we trust will see the necessity of legislating out of existence the causes of the present discontent in the army, which we are assured is on the increase and rapidly tending to disorganization. All of which is respectfully submitted.
Corpus Curisti, December 12th, 1845.
D. E. Twiaes, Colonel 2d dragoons. J. B. Toornton, Captain 2d dragoons. C. A..May, Captain 2d dragoons. Wed: Maer, Captain 2d dragoons. H. Be Staeet Adjutant 2d dragoons. A. Lowry, Ist Lieutenant 2d. dragoons Lewis Neri, 2d Lieutenant 2d dragoons: Grorce T. Mason, 2d Lieutenant 2d ‘dragoons. Crocuan Ker, Captain 2d dragoons. Dexos B. a brevet 2dlieutenant 2d dragoons O. F. Winsuip, Ist Lieutenant 2d dragoons. F. Hamitton, Ist Lieutenant 2d dragoons. JaMEs S. Woops, brevet 2d Lieutenant 2d dragoons.. RANDOLPH Rite y. 1st Lieutenant 3d artillery. J.P. M’Cown, Ist Lieutenant 4th Artillery.. C.F. Smiru, Captain 2d Artillery. R. C. Smeap, Captain 4th Artillery. R. A. even Ist Lieutenant 2d: A rtillery. J. S. Hatueway, Ist Lieutenant Ist artillery. . B. Dantets, Ist Lieutenant 2d artillery. a Warns sots, 2d Lieutenant Ist artillery. J. BanKHEAD Macruper, Ist Lieutenant Ist artillery. R. B. Scutven, Captain 8th infantry. R. S. Gannet, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. M. Know ton, Ist Lieutenant Ist artillery. W. Sypyey Smirn, 2d Lieutenant Ist artillery. ‘Tomas J. Curn, brevet 2d Lieutenant Ist artillery. H. F. Crarx, Breyer : 2d Lieutenant 2d artillery. A. A. Gipson, 2d Lieutenant 2d artillery Cuarues G. Mercuant, brevet 2d Lieutenant 8th infantry. Epwarp Deas, Ist Lieutenant 4th artillery. A. B. Lansine, 2d Lieutenant 2d artillery. W. H. Fowter, Ist Lieutenant Ist artillery. WILLIAM Ginna, Ist Lieutenant 3d artillery. J. J. Reynoups, brevet 2d Lieutenant artillery. S. Macxenzig, Captain 2d artillery. Joun B. Scorr, Captain 4th artillery.

<<<Page: 301>>>

Henry M. Wurrine, 2d Lieutenant 4th artillery.
D. H. Hint, 2d Lieutenant 4th artillery.
Tuomas W. WE LD, brevet 2d Lieutenant Ist artillery. Witiram WuistLer, Colonel 4th infantry.
Joun Garuanp, Lieutenant Colonel 4th infantry. Grorcre W. Atien, Captain and brevet Major 4th infantry. Joun Pace, Captain 4th infantry.
Pircarrn Morrison, Captain 4th infantry.
T. H. Porter, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry.
C. Hoskins, Ist Lieutenant and Adjutant 4th infantry. R. E. Cocurane, ist Lieutenant 4th infantry.
Jenks Beaman, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry.
R. H. Granam, Ist Lieutenant 4th infantry.
Sipney Smiru, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry.
Rogert C. BucHanan, ea 4th infantry.
P. A. Farratty, brevet 2d leutenant 4th infantry. Joun A. Ricuey, brevet 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. Georce N. M’Catx, Captain 4th infantry.
G. O. Hatier, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry.
C. H. Larnarp, Captain 4th infantry.
S. D. Dossins, Ist Lieutenant 3d infantry.
Grorce Sykes, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry.
E. B. Hatroway, 2d Lieutenant 8th infantry. Avexanper Hays, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. HT Caer: 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry.
James M. Smiru, Ist Lieutenant 3d infantry.
HENRY Baiserroes, Captain 3d infantry.
Witii1aM 8S. Henry, Ist Lieutanant 3d infantry.
L. S. Crare, Ist Lieutenant 5d infantry.
J. Van Horne, Ist Lieutenant 3d infantry.
P. N Barsour, brevet Captain 3d infantry.
D. S. Irnwiy, hee et Ist Lieutenant and Adj. General 5d infantry. A. J. Winuiamson, 2d Lieutenant 5d infantry.
W. T. H. Brooxs, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry.
J. J. C. Briss, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 5d infantry. Rosert Hazuirr, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry.
Gzorer C. M’Cietuan, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. D. C) Buet,-2d Tieatenent 3d infantry.
Barnarp E. Ber, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. Grorce P. Fieip, Captain 3d infantry.
D. T. Caanpuer, Ist Lichtenaee 3d infantry.
Joun Munrokg, Captain and Brevet Major 4th artillery. Joun FI. Reynoups, 2d Lieutenant 3d artillery.
James Duncan, Ist Lieutenant 2d artillery.
J. F. Rotanp, Ist Lieutenant 2d artillery.
J. P. Jounstone, Brevet 2d Lieutenant artillery. Braxton Brace, Ist Lieutenant 5d artillery.
J. F. Irons, 2d Lieutenant Ist artillery.
Joun J. Peck, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 2d artillery.
W. Hays, 2d Lieutenant 2d Artillery.
J.C. Pemserton, Ist Lieutenant 4th artillery.

<<<Page: 302>>>

Grorcr H. Tomas, Ist Lieutenant 3d artillery. Arnoup Exxzy, Ist Tieatenant.” 2d artillery.. J.S. M’Inrosn, Lieutenant Colone! 5th infantry. F. STANNIFORD, Major 6th infantry.
Martin Scort, Captain 5th infantry.
M. E. Merrit, Captain 5th infantry.
E. K. Smiru, Captain Sth infantry.
A. 8S. Hoor, Captain 5th infantry.
J. Lynpr, Captain 5th infantry.
J. L. THompson, Captain 5th infantry.
C. C. Ststey, Captain 5th infantry.
Win. Carman, Captain “th infantry.
A. Drane, Captain Sth infantry.
DANIEL Rugeles, Ast Lieutenant 5th infantry.
J. H. Wurprie, ‘Ist Lieutenant 5th infantry. Wo. Roor, Ist Lieutenant 5th infantry.
Crs. S RPRENSON, Ist Lieutenant 5th infantry. N. B. Rosse.z, ig Lieutenant 5th infantry.
J. A. Wurruaty, Ist Lieutenant 5th infantry. Georce Deas, Adjutant 5th infantry.
S. H. Fowxirr, 2d Lieutenat 5th infantry. Roserr L. Brooxr; 2d Lieutenant 5th infantry. Spencer Norvent,.2d Lieutenant, 5th infantry. Jon C. Ronrnson, 2d Lieutenant 5th infantry. H. Wurtine, 2d Lieutenant 5th infantry. Pinkney Sucencut, 2d Lieutenant 5th infantry. M.-Rosecratyts, 2d Lieutenant 6th infantry. J. Smirn, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 5th infantry.
I. G. Pircner, Brevet 2d Lieutenant oth infantry.
JAacon Brown, Major 7th infantry. EK. S. Hawxtrys, Captain 7th infantry. Francis Ler, Captain 7th infantry. D. S. Mines “Canaan 7th infantry.S.-W. Moore, Captain 7th infantry. R. C. Garury, Captain 7th infantry. 'T. H. Hotmes, Captain 7th infantry. R. H. Ross, Captain 7th infantry. Hopson, Ist Lieutenant 7th innfantry..R. Scorr, {st Lieutenant 7th infantry. i: N. Pacer, Adjutant 7th infantry. I’. Garpiner, 2d Lieutenant 7th infantry. W. H. Woop, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 7th it Wfantry. Owl iGreen, 2d Lieutenant 5d artillery. S. Kk. Dawson, 2] Lieutenant Ist artillery. D. P. Warrine, Captain 7th infantry. A. Crozer, Brevet 2d Licutenant 7th infantry. a H. Porrer 2d Lieutenant’ 7th infantry. . H. Humper, Ist Lieutenant 7th infantry. . Gantt, 2d Lie os nant 7th infant try. Tuomas Jorpan, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry.
EpmuNnp ce Ist Licutenant 4th artillery. S. G.-Frencu; Brevet’2d Licutenant artillery.

<<<Page: 303>>>

Ew 18
W. Hl. Suorer, Ist Lieutenant, 5d artillery. A. Douniepay, 2d Lieutenant Ist ar tillery. LL. N. Morris, Captain 3d infantry. di: C. M’Ferran, Brevet 2d Lieuterant 3d infantry. a. A. Hivtorener, Lieutenant Colonel 3d infantry. M, M. Payne, Lieutenant Colonel, 4th artillery. Ht M’Kav ERT, Captain Sth infantry. si Baetronn, Captain 8th infantry. rs P. Macray, 2d Lieutenant 8th infantry. 'T. L. Cuanzourn, 2d Lieutenant 8th infantry. Henry M. Jupau, eres et 2d Lieutenant Sth infantry. George Lincotn, Ist Lieutenant 8th infantry. J. Seven, Ist Lieutenant 8th infantry. A. L. Suerparp, Ist Lieutenant Sth infantry.
In order to put the question of the complete separation of the quartermaster’s department from the dine, beyond a doubt, so far as their commissions in that departinent are valid, reference must be had to the 9th section of the act of July 5, 1858, which is in the following words: ‘* And be tt fur“ther enacted, That the President of the United es be, and he is hereby “ authorized by and with tlie advice and consent of the Senate, to add to aA the quartermasters department, not exceeding two assistant quartermaster s general, with the rank of Colonel; two deputy quartermaster’ S
“ general with ihe ye of Lieutenant Colonel, and eight assistant quarter-
‘masters with the rank of Captain; that the assistant quartermasters now
‘in service, shall have the same rank as is-provided by this act for those shone authorized; and that the pay and emoluments of the officers of és ‘the quartermaster’s department, shall be the same as are allowed to ofh-
‘cers of similar rank in the 1 egiments of dragoons; Provided, That all ap-
“pointments in the quartermaster’s department shall be made from the
“army, and when officers taken for such appointments hold rank in the ‘line, they shall thereupon relinquish said rank and be separated from the ss ‘Shine of the army ; and that promotion in said department shall take place
‘as in regiments and corps.’
This section was qualified, so far as relates to Captains, by the third clause of the Ree act of July 7, 1838, in the following words : “That so much of said act as requires assistant quartermasters sto. be sepa-
‘rated from the line, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed.”
By this clause in the supplementary act, Captains who may be appointed in the « quartermaster’s department, under the authority of the 9th section of the act of July 5, 1838, are permitted to retain their previous commissions in the line, but the supplementary act does not extend the same privilege to the other officers (the Colonels and Lieutenant Colonels,) appointed under the same section of the act of July 5, and therefore, this being in full force with respect to them, they are required to be taken from the army, and if taken from the dine of the army, (thus distinguishing the line from the stalP corps and departments, ) they are required to “relinquish” the “rank”? in, and be “ separated from the line of the army. Be the dine,

<<<Page: 304>>>

19 (orf
therefore what it may, the Colonels and Lieutenant Colonels of the quartermaster’s department are absolutely, and without qualification, separated Jrom it, for this is the very language of the law itself. And further, with respect to their rank, as if to guard against the possibility of misconstruction, the Colonels of the department are declared by the 9th section above quoted to have, not the rank, pay and emoluments of Colonels of dragoons, but to have the rank of Colonel, (in the quartermaster’s department ot course,) and in another part of the section it is provided that they shall have the pay and emoluments of officers of s¢mz/ar rank in the regiments of dragoons; thus with the most pointed care, separating the rank from the pay of the dragoons, and it is the same with the Lieutenant Colonels of the department.
On no pretence whatever, therefore, can these officers of the quarterinaster’s department be assigned to command in the line by a ‘*common senior,’ as General Scott supposes, and still less in the absence of a senior, can these officers decide themselves whether they may or may not, “aes out prejudice to staff duties and the rights of others,’? assume the ‘ command of troops” for this question is decided absolutely, by the 62d Article of War, against them.
Corvus Curisti1, December 12, 1845,
APPENDIX As MAJOR GENERAL SCOTT’S LETTER ON BREVET AND STAFF RANK.
Heap QuARTERS oF THE ARMY, JAldjutant General’s Office, Washington, November 17, 1845. Brever Bricaprer GENERAL TAYEorR,
Srr:—In reference to your letter of the 10th October, 1845, on the subject of brevet rank, I am directed by the General-in-Chief to say, that he promptly laid it before the Secretary of War for the consideration of the highest in authority. In the meantime, and by the desire of the Secretary of War, (he not having leisure at this time fully to examine the question himself ,) the Generalin-Chief gives the following as his own general answers to the queries you have presente “dl s—
“Paragraphs 11, 14, 15 and 16, in the “General Regulations for the Army,” are all, more or less, repugnant to the law of the land, and therefore to that extent, null and void. See the Gist and 62d of the Rules and Articles of War, and also, ‘the custom of war in like cases’—a rule of construction given by Congress i in the 69th of the same articles.
“¢ But it is faicehes held, that the repugnant paragraphs in question, were subsequently rescinded by the heading to the General List in each annual official Army Register since [S41. See that of the present year, page 28. That heading first inserted in the Register of 1842, was the well considered act of the Executive.. By it, and the General List, the rank, precedence and command of every commissioned officer in the army down to captains inclusive, ‘whether by brevet, former commissions, or otherwise,’ will be found to have been settled, annually, since [S41.
“Any military rank (giving the command of troops) which enables an

<<<Page: 305>>>

faa 29
officer to join in mixed duty with an officer or officers of any other permanently established corps (as a regiment, a corp of engineers, or the marine corps) is for that precise reason, ‘rank of the line of the army,? i in the langauge of the 62d Article of War, as well as in accordance with the express terms of the Olst (first part) and the Aeading of the General List in the Army Register. Hence brevet and former commissions, as well as mr litia commissions (on mixed duty,)gives rank in the line of the army.
‘* All military rank, derived from law, must be equally valid except so far only as it may be restricted by law, the only legal restrictions on military rank, known in the United States, are to be founda in the 61st, 63d and 98th Articles of War. In the 6lst, brevet and former seo are restricted in an officer’s own unmixed corps, and but for the 98th, any senior militia officer would, on mixed service, command all Junior regular ofhcers of the same grade, ‘whether by brevet, former cominissions, or otherwise.’ No farther restrictions can be imposed except by the same authority—the Congress of the United States.
‘<The exception at the end-<of the 62d article, ‘unless otherwise specially directed by the President of the United States, according tothe nature of the case,’ evidently does not contemplate that a junior officer should ever be placed over a senior; but only that a senior officer may be prohibited from interfering with some special command of a junior. The Military Academy is an instance; that, although under the rules and articles of war, is by a valid regulation, carved out of a mili itary department, a division and a general command of‘the army.
‘President Madison decided, in General Orders of July 1, 1816, that
‘regiments and corps, as used in the 6Olst article of the rules and articles of war synonymous terms,’ that is, both are permanently ‘ established corps’ according to General Ww ashington in the case of brevet Major M’Pherson.—[ Rogers’ American Biography, p. 325.
“In General Orders No. 11, of April 15, 1845, (signed by the Secretary of War,) a brevet is decided to be as it is called om its face—a commission.
“Tf there were a regimental Colonel in the present army of occupation in Texas, senior to brevet Brigadier General 'Taylor’s regimental rank, It would not change the command of that army unless such Colonel also held a senior commission as brevet Briadier General, and this independent of assignment—a term not more applicable to brevet rank than to any other rank. That army is a detachment from the army of the United States, and is moreover, composed of different corps, and what is applicable to the whole, is equally applicable to its smaller temporary corps when mixed.
“The formation of such, whether temporary brigades, battalions or smaller detachments (mixed or otherwise) depends on the discretion of the commander of the army of occupation, governed by usage, the actual state and wants of the service. But when corps become mixed, whether specially or by accident, the senior officer in each, whether by brevet, former commission or otherwise, becomes entitled to command from the happening of the junction.
“In respect to staff officers, in the presence of senior’s assignment by the common senior, is necessary, because to him it belongs, to say, whether such officers, may without prejudice to staff duties and the rights of others, be assigned to the command of troops. Inthe absence of a senior a staff officer with senior military rank, as above would clearly have the right to decide that question himself,

<<<Page: 306>>>

21 7?)
In the battalion of eleven artillery companies (of different regiments,) ‘serving in the army of occupation as infantry, s should an additional field officer “be deemed necessary with that battalion, by the commander of that army, the second officer of the battalion w hether such by brevet, or otherwise, would be entitled to be assigned as Major.
I am sir, very respectfully, Your obedient servant, (Signed) R. JONES, Adjutant General. The foregoing letter is printed as a circular for the information of the army. By order-:of JONES Adjutant General. Apsutant Generaw’s Orricr, Washington, Nov. 19th, 1S-b5.
Regulations by command of President Jackson concerning Brevet and
Staff Rank.
Apsutanr GeEnerat’s Orrice, Washington, August 13th, 1829.
Orper — No. 54. The following regulation approved by the President of the United States,
chas been rec ered from the War Department and is mublished for the information and government of all concerned:
“1. Brevet rank will gve no command except on detachments, composed of different corps and within the meaning of the 61st Article of War.
*©2. Detachment means a body of troops sent out from the main body to perform a particular service and to be absent for a limited time; when such a detachment is composed of different corps brevet rank wil takeeffect in conformity with the GLst Article of War.
«3. Under the same -Article of War, brevet rank will take place on Courts Martial when composed of different officers of different corps.
“4. In regularly constituted commands, such as garrisons, posts, departments, regiments, corps, companies, battalions, brigades, divisions, «orps @armie, or the.army itself, brevet rank is not to be exercised except on Spec ial assignment.
“5. Officers having rank in the line of the army, the staff or by brevet, though eligible to command, will not assume the command, unless specially put on duty with that intention.
*©G, An officer entrusted with the:command of a post, detachment, guard or separate command, will not surrender it to another, unless regularly reheved from the duty assigned him, except in the case of sickness, or inability to perform his duty, when the aiicer next in rank present, and on duty with such command, will succeed as a matter of course.
“7. An officer not on duty, with, nor ‘belonging to any of the compa

<<<Page: 307>>>

i i] 29
nies, battalions, regiments or corps, Composing a command cannot assume the Gommand. He must first have been put on duty by some competent authority to make him a part of the command, before he can assume or exercise the command.
8. If different corps happen to join or do duty together, the officer highest in ré ank by his commission in the line of the army present on duty, has the right to command the whole, and to give orders needful to the service. Brev et officers or officers having brey: ets or Commissions of a prior date to those of the regiment in which they serve, cannot by virtue of such brevets or commissions of a prior date, assume the command.
By command of the President, (Signed,) J. HH. EATON: Secretary of War. By order of Alexander Macomb, Major General commanding the army. (Signed, ) R. JONES, /ldjuta a General.
29th Coneress,
Ist Session.
Marcu 18, 1846.
Submitted and ordered to be printed.
Mr. Benton made the following report :
The Committee on Military Agus to whom was referred the memorial of sundry officers of the army of the United States at Corpus Christi, in relation to Staff rank, and Brevet rank,
That they have seen an order of the President of the United States, dated on the 12th day of the present month, re-establishing the regulation of August 15, 1829, by President Jackson, in relation to brevet and staff rank, and abrogating all subsequent pepnlanony in relation thereto; and believing the said regulation of August 13, 1829, to be a correet exposition of the Rules and ‘Articles of War in felatign te the subject, and that the re-establishment of said regulation has applied the adequate and appropriate remedy to the evils complained of in the memorial, and has superceded the necessity for legislation on the subject, the committee bring back into the Senate the memorial committed to them, and pray to be discharged from its further consideration.
Wasuineton, D. C., Sunday night, January 19, 1851. Mr. Conran, Dear Sir :—With the apprehension of being thought presumptive in thus appearing before yon again, | am nev ertheless constrained to do SO, from a sensitive regard for the honor and reputation of my father.

<<<Page: 308>>>

23 as
With this apology, T hope and believe you will make due allowance for the liberty which L take in sending you the enclosed letter received at a late hour to-night, from my brotherinclaw.
Convinced as I am, that after a fnll investigation of the matter, you will find gross injustice, tnflicted by the order in question, upon Col. ‘Fauntleroy. I am equa ly certain that a strict sense of justice will induce you to repair the injury as speedily as possible.
Very respectfully, &c., &e., &c., Your obedient servant, C.-M. FAUNTLEROY: Hon. C. M. Conran, Secretary of War, Washington.
Bartimore, January 16th, [S5L.
Dear Cuartes:—lI have your note of last evening and in reply will give you the opinion of others on the subject of that pier.
T was inforined of it by a staff officer of some rank (himself a brevet,) aud much service, who mentioned it as a remarkable and iregular paper, oppose «L to pre ‘cede nt, usage, and the known law on the subject, and of very injurious tendency ; and one which he sinc erely hoped and believed had not the knowledge or sanction of the Secretary.
A second officer (one of the 7th infantry) spoke to me of the hardship
f Col. Plympton’s position as second in command at Jefferson barracks, hile Lt. Col. Sumner was allowed the command at Leavenworth, (properly the head quarters of the Ist regiment,) but spoke of the assigninent of Col. P. to his brevet rank, as an act of oppressvon, and that it w ould be so viewed by every one cognizant of the circumstances.
In my own opinion it is a most unwarranted personal attack under the mask ot official authority upon Col. F. and unequalled in my army experience. It places Col. E's. reputation at the mercy of his enemies, and gives authority for asserting that being unfit for command he was superceded,
Under the much agitated brevet rank system as it is now received and understood, this onder : is illegal, and at variance with the rules of special assignment to brevet rank by the President alone. It is injurious in its action, for the same application may place the captain of a company in com-~ ond of his colonel, or a lieutenant in command of his captain.
Col. Plympton’s family should not be a valid reason for inflicting a severe official disgrace and degredation upon Col. launtleroy , for as such he will feel it, and as such both his friends and enemies will view it. Finally, this is the first move in a new scheme of annoyance to carry out personal hostility under cover of official power. Colonel Plympton is not a favorite with the originator of this scheme, but Lt. Col Sumner is. Col. Fauntleroy’s proper position is kort Dearenew orth, but it is not desirable to remove Col. Sumner. ‘lo avoid this, an official insult is given to Colonel] Fauntleroy, he will protest and reply to it, in this rejoinder opportunity will be sought and found, to place him in the wrong. His .position thus weakened, the next move will be to order him to Santa Fe, New Mexico, or elsewheve, with a Major’s command, leaving Col. Sumner to all intents

<<<Page: 309>>>

peop 24
and purposes in command of the regiment. The result of the movement points to the ultimate resignation of Col. I. brought about by oppression, the whole blame of which will hereafter be thrown upon the shoulders of the Secretary of War, by the very party most actively engaged in the work.
Under existing circumstances there is but one remedy which justice can adopt—to rescind the order and restore Col. F. to his rank and command— a leave of absence, of change of post, under the action of this order, would but render the stigma “it inflicts indelible. I would state this to the Secretary and rely upon his sense of justice to retrieve the error into which, he has: been decived.
We heard from mother to-day (January 4th, one hour below. Memphis) all doing finely. They left Mr. Conrad’s hospitable roof on the fst Jan. and expect to be at St. Louis on the 7th. God grant that they have arrived safely, and will be with the Colonel to cheer and sustain him under this most grievous:and injurious movement.
Mary desires love, Yours very, truly, J..M. BARNES: Cuas. M:. Faunr.eroy,,U..S. Navy.
E.have not time to read this long paper and its-accompanying documents. E suppose, however, the ground of “the Colonel’s complaint.to be this: that being in command of the post, Jefferson barracks, as Colonel by ordinary commission, the Secretary of War, at my instance assigned brevet Colonel Plympton, who is only a regimental Lieutenant Colonel, to. duty then. ac-
cording to his. brevet rank, which being senior to the rank of Fauntleroy, the command.of the post pa ssed to Ply inpton..
Jefferson barracks is not and never has been a cavalry post. There has not in.years, been a troop of horse there.
But in 184), the post being unoccupied, and the companies of the first dragoons scattered from the upper Mississippi, to California — presenting at no one point a force sufficient to constitute a command for a field-officer. I sent brevet Brigadier General Mason, t then Colonel of the first’ dragoons with the staff and band of the regiment to Jefferson Barracks asa convenient place of quarters tevsave the expense of having quarters at St. Louts or elsewhere and .the position being as good as an any other for correspond+ ig with the scattered ¢ ompanies for receiving returns ‘from them, &c..,&e. Nal at the time I distinctly informed Ceneral Mason that if troops were ordered. to Jefferson Barracks » he would not be allowed to command them, unless one or more.companies of dragoons were mixed up with the command. This excellent Bite er saw atvonce the propriety of that restriction.
General Mason died in July 1850,,and was succeeded as Colonel of the first dragoons by Fauntleroy. Soon after the latter took post at Jefferson Barrac acs: six companies. of the 7th. iafantry were ordered there for the winter, . "

<<<Page: 310>>>

25 eo
On the arrival of the regiment, the gallant brevet Colonel Plympton would, no doubt, have at oe and of right assumed the command of the post, es the 61st and 62d Articles of W ar, but for the repeated attempts made at Washington, by orders and by regulations to repeal without the
concurrence of Congress that article—a part of the statute law of the land,
(see President Jackson’s order August 13, 1829 5) signed by Mr. Secretary aton, but which, in fact, as is well eure n in this building was written by General M’Comb against me, and got published without the knowledge of the President, (see. also paragraphs: 16 and 17, page 4, General Regulations of the Army ») where the principles and nearly t thre words of that order are embodiedagainst the plainest meaning and intent of the 61st article. In the present case (Jefferson Barracks) there were three detachments of different corps temporarily on duty together—Ist, Col. Fauntleroy, his regimental staff and band. 2d, brevet Colonel Plympton with six companies of the 7th infantry, and 3d, a company of artillery.
But according to the order of 1829, copied into the ( teneral Regulations brevet rank is of no effect without ass¢gnment—a term and a restriction (by the way) wholly unknown to the law of the land, and Plympton asked to be assigned. The assignment was given by the War Department, and why not? Plympten is the older Palen He served ¢ gallantly throughout the war of 1812, and he won the brevet of full Colonel in Mexico by distinguished conduct again and again, in front of the enemy—where is the brevet of Col. Fauntleroy ? Moe! LE may be rephed that he never had the good fortune to be ina position to win a brevet; true, but is his misfortune to over-ride the good fortune and high merit combined, of Plympton? Is not brevet rank as much the creation of law and granted under as high solemnities as ordinary rank? If there be any important difference between the two, it is in faver of brevets.
Respectfully submitted To the Secretary of War. WINFIELD SCOTT.
Heap QuarrTers or THE ARMY, Washington, February 11, 1851.
The letter of Colonel Fauntleroy to the President, has been carefully considered, both by him and the Secretary of War, and they concur in the opinion hia he has no ground of complaint whatever.
The right of the President to assign an officer to command according to his brevet rank is not disputed. Of the circumstanc es that may require ihe exercise of this power in a particular case, the law constitutes him the sole judge, and when an order of that nature has been issued, an officer has no more right to demand the reason that prompted him to issue it, than he tas to demand the reasons for any other order issued by his superior. Even were it otherwise, Colonel F auntleroy might have found in the fact stated by the Generals -in-chief, that no portion of his command was, or was likely to be stationed at Weis: ‘son barracks, while nearly the whole of Lieutenant Colonel Plympton’s regiment was there a sufficient reason for assigning the command of that post to the latter.
It is an error too, to suppose that the effect of that order was to place Colonel Fauntleroy under the command of his inferior. Such would have
Ex.—s

<<<Page: 311>>>

Be | 26
been the case, if the President had, under the 62d Article of War, ordered Lieutenant Colonel Piympton to take command without assigning him to his brevet rank, but the effect of the assignment was to make him the senior of Colonel Fauntleroy.
Exception has been taken to the form of the order because it did not purport upon its face to have been issued by the President.
The order was signed by the Secretary of War whose acts in matters appertaining to his department, are in contemplation of law the acts of the President. (See General Order No. 35, dated October 30th, 1850.)
It is true, that the Assistant Adjutant General in transmitting the order omitted to state that it emanated from the Secretary of War. This was a clerical error, which, if it were at all material, that officer would be directed to correct. But as the officer to whom the order was directed has not intimated any doubt of its validity, and as Col. Fauntleroy was, by a subsequent order, transferred to another post and consequently ceased to be in any manner affected by it, the correction does net appear to be necessary.
(Signed) C. M. CONRAD, Secretary of War. War Department, February 15,1851

<<<Page: 312>>>

SpEcIAL SESSION, EXEcuTIvE,
March, 1851. 7 aes MESSAGE THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
In compliance with a resolution of the Senate of the 8th instant, correspondence between the State Department and the United States Minister at Constantinople, respecting the liberation of Kossuth and his Companions.
Marcu 11, 1851.
Read, aud ordered to be printed,
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit, herewith, a report from the Secretary of State, with the accompanying documents, in compliance with the resolution of the Senate, of the 8th instant.
MILLARD FILLMORE. Wasuineton, 10th March, 1851.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, 10th March, 1851. To the President of the United States :
The Secretary of State, to whom was referred the resolution of the Senate of the Sth instant, requesting the President ‘* to communicate to the Senate, if not inconsistent with the public interest, any correspondence which has taken place between the Department of State, and the Minister of the United States at Constantinople, respecting the liberation of Kossuth and his companions,” has the honor to lay before the President the accompanying copies of papers.
Respectfully submitted, DANIEL WEBSTER.
1. Mr. Clayton to Mr. Marsh, 12th January, 1850.
2. Mr. J. P. Brown to Secretary of State, 5th January, 1850, with an inclosure.
3. Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State, 14th March, 1850.
4. The same to the same, 25th March, 1850.

<<<Page: 313>>>

ea 2
5. Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State, 18th April, 1850. 6. The same to the same, 15th May, 1850. 7. The same to the same, 19th ee 1850. 8. The same to the same, 4th July, 1850. 9, The same to the same, 19th August, 1850. 10. Mr. Marsh to the same, 15th Nov eraher, 1850. 11. Mr. Webster to Mr. Marsh, 25th January, 1851. 12. The same to Mr. J. P. Brown, 22d SUE 1851. 3. Mr. J. P. Brown to Secretary of State, 23d February, 1851. 14. Mr. Webster to Mr. Marsh, 28th February, 1851.
Mr. Clayton to Mr. Marsh.
[ Copy—No. 3. DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, 12th January 1850. Grorce P. Marsn, Esq., Constantinople.
Sir :—You are well aware that the deepest interest is felt among the people of the United States, in the fate of Kossuth and his compatriots of Hungary, who have hitherto escaped by seeking an asylum within the boundaries of the Ottoman Empire. The accounts respecting them have heen so conflicting—sometimes representing them as having escaped, and at others as being captive, that we have not known what to credit, and have therefore declined to interfere in their behalf; nor do we now desire to interfere, by entangling ourselves in any serious controversy with Russia or Austria. But we cannot suppose that a compliance with the dictates of humianity, now that the contest with Hungary is over, would involve our friendly relations with any other power. Should you be of the opinion that our good offices would avail any thing to secure their safety, it is desired by your government that you should intercede, with the Sultan in their behalf. The President would be gratified, if they could. find a retreat under the American flag, and their safe conveyance to this country, by any one of our National ships, which may be about to return home, would be hailed with lively satisfaction by the American people.
f am sir, yours, &e.
(Signed) JOHN M. CLAYTON.
Mr. Brown to Secretary of State.
ness in misfortune, and inseparable devotion to those friends now with him at Choumla, he has frequently mentioned to myself and family in the warmest terms. I am sorry to learn from him that, notwithstanding the nobleness and generosity of the Sultan, Mr. Kossuth and his friends are far from being comfortably situated at Choumla. ‘Their number is now reduced to some 500 Hungarians and 700 Poles. The Italians, 200 in number, are at Gallipoli, (Dardanelles -) Major Beck has also related to me the conduct of the Austrian government towards the principal agents of the revolution in Hungary, and to those of the refugees at Widin, who, confiding im the amnesty offered them by the Austrian ceneral seni there for that purpose, returned into Hungary only to meet with death in the most ignominious form. ‘a a * is * Mr. Kossuth has no knowledge yet of his aged mother, wife, and children. It is supposed that the latter are now in Vie nna, in a military academy, as hostages for the future silence of their father. Few or none of the refugees have any other means of subsistence bey td what the Sultan gives them. The Russian minister has re-opened official relations with the Porte, (on the 50th ultimo,) and I received the President’s instructions of the 12th of January; and as, in the opinion of the most intelligent friends of the Hungarian refugees at Broussa, it was not improbable that Kossuth and his companions might be allowed to take passage for America, in compliance with the request of the President, or at least suffered to escape, I deemed it my duty to request Captain Long to detain the Mississippi at Constantinople, until I could address a note to the Porte (which could only be done after my audience of reception) and obtain a reply, and T accordingly communicated to that officer the substance of my instructions, and desired him to remain a reasonable time for that purpose.
to express the hope that the generous purpose of the Sultan, in magnanimously sheltering these fugitives against their pursuers, may find full accomplishment i in ‘their restoration to entire freedom, and that the United States may be permitted to share in the glory, which the s salvation of these distinguished patriots, will confer upon all who shall have contributed to effect i an object so important to the common interests of humanity.
“<The undersigned avails himself of this occasion to offer to his Excellency the Minister of Foriegn Affairs, the assurance of his most distinguished consideration.”
T am aware that my instructions of January 12, 1850, do not in terms, direct me te make an offer of the services of a public ship for the conveyance of the Hungarian refugees to America, but as the Jamestown is understood to be about to retin to the Unite a States, and as Captain Long was of opinion that the Mississippi might be detained here a few days without inconvenience to the service, for the purpose of transporting them to Genoa, I thought the offer fully hisiorized by the letter as well as the spirit of those instructions.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs promises a reply to my note on Saturday next; but as_ the Marseilles steamer, by which I transmit this despatch, sails on Friday, I shall not be able to communicate his answer until the mail of the 19th instant. I have no doubt that the Porte is sincerely desirous of acceding to the President’s wishes, but I fear the influence ot Russia and Austria. upon this question is too strong to be overcome. ‘The Sultan has unfortunately embarrassed himself by offering to detain the refugees in the interior fora year; and though this prop ve was rejected by Ai istria, which insisted on a much longer term of internement, it is believed bat the Sultan feels himself not entirely released from his obligations. At present Kossuth, Batthiany, and about thirty other Hungarians, are under restraint at Broussa, and if our prop sosal is declined, they will probably be removed to Kutaya, eighty miles further inland.
The refugees ee e—but, as I believe, without any good reason—become jealous and distrustful of the Porte, and complained much of the treatment they receive at the hands of the officers to whose custody they are committed. I can readily imagine that they may not always have been treated with due consideration ; but it must be remembered that the maintenance of so eae number of foreigners, (originally more than four thousartd, and now bout twelve hundred,) is a heavy charge upon the Turkish gov emment, and that in a country so destitute as Turkey of most of the conveniences and comforts which habit has made necessary to Europeans it is absolutely impracticable to provide them with the means of ease and enjoyment to which they had been before accustomed.
I am fully persuaded that the Sultan, and the great officers of his court, have been throughout actuated by the most generous and philanthropic motives, and that the refugees have been treated with every practicable indulgence that the well-grounded fears which the Turks entertain of Austrian resentment would allow. * * = A &
I have the honor to be, sir, your most: obedient servant,
Hon. Joun M. Crayrtor, Secretary of State,

<<<Page: 314>>>

LeGaTiIon oF THE UNITED STATES, Constantinople, March 25, 1850. Sir: On Tuesday, the 19th instant, I received from the Department of Foreign Affairs, of the Porte a reply to my note of March 11, (a copy of which was communicated to you in my despatch No. 3, dated March is [850,) whereof the following is a translation ;
‘DEPARTMENT OF ForrIGN AFFAIRS OF THE SUBLIME PorTE,
“| have had the honor to receive your communication dated the 11th of March, A. C. 1850, in which you represent, that in case the Sublime Porte approves of a sending of the Hungarians to America, a vessel of your government, appointed for that purpose, wilt convey them thither. The Sublime Porte certainly will offer no obstacle or difficulty to the departure, to whatever place they please, of such of the Hungarians as are not implicated, nor is there any objection to those Hungarians and Poles whose names are not registered in the list given to the Sublime Porte by the Austrian government, or who are not otherwise implicated, profiting by the hospitality thus offered on the part of the United States of America.
‘““Yet, in consequence of the offer spontaneously made by the Sublime Porte, it bound itself to keep in the Ottoman dominions, under certain conditions which it is now endeavoring to arrange, those of the chiefs of said people whose names are entered on 1 that list ; ‘and in the view of acting with sincerity and probity 1 in its intercourse and Telos with other friendly governments, and maintaining its given word, it is obligatory on the part of his Imperial Majesty the Sultan, to execute that offer.
“Under these circumstances the Ottoman vovernment deems itself compelled to decline permitting said chiefs to proceed to America.
“T avail myself of the present occasion to offer you assurances of my highest respect and most distinguished consideration.
LEGATION OF THE Unirep STATES OF AMERICA. Constantinople, 18th April, 1850. To Hen. J. M. Ciayton,
Str:—Since the date of my last despatch (No. 4,) the Austrian government has notified the Porte of its acceptance of the terms of infer nement of the Hungarian refugees offered by the Sultan, and the diplomatic relations between Austria and the Porte have been formally resumed. The refugees who were lately at Broussa have been removed to Kutayah, and it is understood that on the ex piration of a year from the date of the Sultan’s offer, (which was early last autumn,) they will be released and allowed to proceed to England or America, as they may desire. The other refugees are still in the interior, and about one hundred of them have expressed a desire to emigrate to the United States, and have applied to me to furnish them with the means of transportation to America, and of subsistance in the mean time. I could, of course, contract no engagements of this sort, and did not feel at li berty to hold ott to them encouragement or aid of any
description from the American ewovernment.””
* % * #
LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES, Constantinople, 4th July, 1850. Hon. Joun M. Crayton, &c., &c.
Sir: . * *K * * * ‘Since my last despatch, the Minister of Foreign Affairs offered me to send all the Hungarian refugees, excepting those detained in Asia Minor, who wish to go to America, ‘(about two hundred in number,) to England, at the expense of the Sultan, if I would undertake, in behalf of the American government to transport them from England to America. I regret John P. Brown to the Secretary of State
Wasuineron, February 23, 1851. Hon. Danie, Wesster, Secretary of State of the United States.
Sir: I have had the honor to receive your letter, of the 22d instant, which you are pleased to request that I should communicate to the eee ment whatever information I may possess respecting the circumstances connected with the detention of Mr. Louis Kossuth and his companions, now in Kutayich, in Asia Minor; and consequently beg leave to lay before it’ the followi ing statement :
When, in “September, 1849, Mr. Kossuth and his companions fled from Hungary, and found safety in the dominions of the Sultan of Turkey, from the united forces of Austria and Russia, they (the Poles and Hungarians together,) amounted to some four thousand in number. You are aware that the Emperors of Austria and Russia demanded, that the Sultan of Turkey, whose protection they had claimed, should deliver them up, and that the Sultan generously refused to acce ae to their demands. ‘The Sultan however, as a matter of friendly compromise, addressed to each of these sovereigns an autograph letter, offering to expel from his Empire, or to detain in it, under elles any of “the refugees whom they might designate. The Emperor of Russia requested that all the Poles should be ex xpelled from ‘Turkey, and consequently, the Sultan sent to Malta, some iwo hundred and fifty Poles in one of his own steamers, and they have dispersed throughout France and Belgium. The Emperor of Austria asked the detention in 1 Turkey of such of the Hungarian chiefs as he might name ina list, which would be given to the Porte by the Austrian Legation at Constantinople. In the mean time, a large number of the refugees escaped from ‘Turkey, through the generous connivance of the Turkish authorities,
g and made their way to different parts of Europe, and even to the United

<<<Page: 315>>>

States. In this manner, the original number of the refugees soon became very much diminished.
In the Sultan’s offer to detain the Hungarian chiefs, he made no allusion to any period of time, and its duration, consequently ‘depends wholly upon himself. Notwithstanding the pressing demands of the Austrian government that Mr. Kossuth, and the others named in its list, should be detained for life, the humane and generous Sultan, promised only one year.
The Austrian government subsequently diminished its demand to twenty, fifteen, ten, and finally to five years; but the Sultan remained firm at his offer of one year. It was questioned, previous to my departure from Constantinople, ‘when the year offered by the Sultan should commence, and when terminate ; aud as the refugees had crossed the Danube and enteted Turkey in the month of September, 1849, it might commence with that event and end in the same month of the following year; or it might commence with the date of the list of the individuals whom the Austrian g0vernment desired should be detained, that is to say, at the end of May, 1850, (when the list was by mutual agreement to be closed,) in which
case, the period of their detention would terminate with the month of May, of the present year. In the meantime, Mr. Kossuth with some twenty five or thirty others named in the list, fad about forty more, who, at their own re quest, were allowed to share in the exile of their late Governor, were removed by the Sultan’s orders from Shumla, in Roomelia, to Kutayich, the place fixed upon for their residence, and where they yet remain under strict surveillance. The Hungarians who remained at Shumla continued to receive rations and a small monthly stipend out of the Sultan’s treasury ; those who escaped to the Capital, and did not leave the country, forfeited this pecuniary assistance, and consequently, soon fell into very fee circumstances. Many of the latter found employment in the service benevolent Musselmans ; others were employed in the Sultan’s army, ana a good number embraced Islamism in the hope of recelving military preferment. Contributions were made among the foreign legations and among the foreign residents in Pera, for the relief of the more needy, and the T urkish ministers never failed to aid those whose peculiar destitution was made known to them. This was the position of the affair when I left Constantinople, May 20th, of last year ; and in the expectation that the year for which Mr. Kossuth was to be det uned would terminate in the mouth of last Septe mber, 12
During the last summer, the Turkish governtent offered to the Minister resident, to send the Hungarians to Liverpool, in one of the Sultan’s steamers, in case his government would provide means for their conveyance to this country ; and from the circumstance, that the period of their departure from Turkey would have been about the month of September—one year from the date of their entrance into the Sultan’s dominions, I am induced to believe that Mr. Kossuth would have been of their number. The Minister resident, not feeling himself at liberty to bind the government, from the want of any authority to do so, the Hungarians were not sent. J also apprehend that the Austrian government, at that time made serious opposition to his release ; and that the Sultan was induced by it, to defer it until a more favorable opportunity should offer.
I am privately informed from Constantinople, under date of the 11th ult. that the Sultan had brought three hundred of the refugees from Shumla to Constantinople ; probably all that remfained there of the original four thousand, and was about to embark them in a vessel chartered by him for England, and that he had given to each one, one thousand piastres, (forty dollars ,) with which to detray their expenses to this country, where they were desirous of proceeding for the purpose of engaging’ in agricultural pursuits: The same letter adds, that at that time, “there was nothing certain known about Mr. Kossuth’s release.
In view of the preceding, I would respectfully suggest, that the President direct the Minister resident at Constantinople, fo renew, as early as practicable, to the Turkish government, the offer of his late lamented predecessor, to convey Mr. Kossuth and such of his friends as may desire to accompany him to the United States, in one of our public vessels. For this purpose the steamer ‘“ Mississippi,’”’ now in the Mediterranean squadron might be ordered to proceed up to Constantinople, and in the conviction which T entertain, that the Sultan’s government will be disposed to release Mr. Kossuth and the other exiles at ‘Kutayic h, at the end of next May; I also believe, that this offer will then be very opportune, and enable the Sultan and his present enlightened Ministers to carry they humane intentions into effect, without exciting the apprehensions of the Austrian government, which would not wish Mr. Kossuth to be set at liberty, and “be permitted to remain so near to the Hungarian frontier as Constantinople.
I have the honor to be sir, with great respect, Your obedient servant, ° JOHN P. BROWN, United States Dragoman.
By a despatch of my predecessor you were instructed to offer to the Sublime Porte to receive Mr. Kossuth, and his companions, on board of one of the National Ships of the United States, to convey them to this country.
It would have been extremely gratifying to the Government and people of the United States, if this proposition could have been, at that time, accepted ; but it is understood, that its not having been complied with by the Sublime Porte, did not arise from a wish, on His Imperial Majesty’s part, to detain them, or from any unwillingness, that they should proceed to the United States, but was in consequence of the Sultan’s offer to Austria, to detain these persons for one year, at the expiration of which time unless further conventions should be entered into to prolong their detention, they should be at liberty to depart.
If this be so, the time is near at hand, when their release may be expected, and w hen they may be permitted, to seek an asylum in any part of the world, to which they shall be able to procure the means of transportation.
It is one ey see that the Sublime Porte has not made, and will not make, any new stipulation, with any power, for their detention; and you are directed to address yourself urgently; though respectfully, to the Sublime Porte on this question.
You will cause it to be strongly represented, that, while this Government has no desire or intention to interfere, in any manner, with questions of public policy, or international or municipal relations of other Governnents, not affecting the rights of its own citizens, and while it has‘entire confidence in the justic e and magnanimity and dignity of the Sublime Porte, yet, on a matter of such univ ersal interest, it hopes, that suggestions, pro£ eeding from no other motives, than those of friendship and respect for the Porte, a desire for the continuance and perpetuity of its independence and dignified position among the nation of the earth, and a sentiment of comrisseration for the Uungarian Exiles,—may be received by the Porte in the same friendly spirit ; in which they are offered, and that the growing good feeling and increasing intercourse between the two Governments may be still further fostered and extended, by a happy concurrence of opinion, and rec iprocity of confidence, upon this as upon all other subjects. Compliance with the wishes of the government and people of the United States, in this repect, will be regarded as a friendly recognition of their intercession, and as a proof of national good will and regard.
The course which the Sublime Porte pursued, in refusing to allow the Hungarian Exiles to be seized upon its soil by the forces of a foreign state, or to arrest and deliver them up itself to their pursuers, was hailed with universal approbation, it might be said with gratitude, every where throughout the United States, and this sentiment was not the less strong, because the demand upon the Sublime Porte was made by governments ” confident in their great military power, with armies iu the field of vast strength, flushed with recent victory, and whose purposes were not to be thwar ted, or their pursuit stayed, by any obstacle less than the interposition of an Empire, prepared to maintain the inviolability of its territories and its absolute sovereignty over its own soil.
This govenment, jealous of its own territorial rights, regarded with great respect and hearty approbation the firm and lofty position, assumed by His Imperial Majesty at that time, and so proudly maintained, under

<<<Page: 316>>>

(son) 14
circumstances well calculated to inspire doubt, and against demands, urged with such gravity, and supported by so formidable an arre ay. His Imperial Majesty felt, that he should be no longer an independent Prince, if he consented to be anything less than the sovereign of his own dominions.
While thus regarding the political position and conduct of the Sublime Porte, in reference to other powers, His Majesity’s generosity in providing for the wants of the fugitives, thus ‘unexpectedly, and in so great numbers throwing themselves upon his protection, is considered equally worthy of admiration.
On the other hand, it is not difficult to conceive, what may have been the considerations, which led the Sublime Porte to consent to remove these persons from its frontiers, require them to repair to the imterior, and there to remain for a limited time.
A great attempt at revolution against the established authorities of a neighboring state, with which the Sublime Porte was at peace, and with which it desired to preserve friendly relations, had only then been suppressed; the chief actors in that attempt had escaped into the dommions of the Porte. ‘To permit them to remain upon its frontiers, where they might project new undertakings against that state, and into which, if circumstances favored, they could enter in arms at any time,—might well have been considered dangerous to both Governments; and the Sublime Porte, while protecting thei, might certainly also prevent their occupying any such position in its own dominions, as should give just cause and alarm to neighboring and friendly Bowers, Their removal to certain localities might also be rendered desirable by consideations of conveuience to the Sublime Porte itself, upon whole charity and generosity such numbers had so suddenly become dependent.
The detention of these persons for a short period of time, in order that they might not at once repair to other parts of Europe, to renew their operations, was a request that it was not unnatural to make, and was certainly, in the decretion of the Sublime Porte to grant, without any sacrifice of its dignity, or any want of kindness towards the Refugees.
But, at this time, all possible apprehension of danger or disturbance, to result from their liberation, has ceased.
It is now more than a year since the last Hungarian army surrendered, and the attempt at revolution, and the estabishment of an independent government, in which they were engaged, were wost sternly crushed by the united forces of two of the greatest powers of Europe,
Their chief associates are, like themselves, in exile, or they have perished on the field, or on the scaffold, or by military execution, their estates are confiscated, their families dispersed, and every castle, fortress and city of Hungary, is in the possession of the forces of Austria.
They themselves, by their desire to remove so far from the scene of their late conflict, declare, that they entertain no hope, or thought, of other similar attempts, and wish only to be premitted to withdraw “themselves altogether from all Europan association, and seek new homes in the vast interior of the United States.
For their attempt at independence they have most dearly paid, and now, broken in fortune and in heart, without home or country, a band of exiles, whose only future is a tearful remembrance of the past, whose only request is to spend their remaning days in obscure industry,—they wait the permission of His Imperial Majesty, to remove themselves, and all that

<<<Page: 317>>>

15 rey
may remain to them, across the ocean, to the uncultivated regions of America, and leave, for ever, a continent which to them has become more gloomy than the wilderness, more lone and dreary than the desert.
The people of the United States expect from the generosity of the Turkish Monarch that this permission will be given; they wait to receive these exiles on their shores, where, withont giving just cause of uneasiness to any Government, they may enjoy whatever of ‘consolation can be afforded by sympathy for their sufferings, and that assistance in their necessities, which this people have never been late in offering to any, and which they are not now for the first time called upon to render.
Accustomed themselves to high ideas of National Independence, the people of the United States would regret to see the government of the vast Empire of Turkey, constrained by the force of circumstances, to exercise the duty of keeping prisoners for other powers.
You will further say to the Sublime Porte, that if, as this government hopes and believes, Mr. Kossuth and his companions are allowed to depart from the dominions of His Imperial Majesty at the expiration of the year commencing in May 1850, they will find conveyance to the Unijed States in some of its National ships, now in the Mediterranean sea, which can be spared for that purpose, and you will, on receiving assurances that these persons will be permitted to embark, ascertain precisely their number, and immediately give notice to the Commander of the United States squadron on that station, who will receive orders from the proper authorities, to be present with such ships, as may be necessary, or can leave the
station, to furnish conveyance for Kossuth and his companions ‘to the United States, 4

<<<Page: 318>>>

‘ie i vy eal
‘agit vot Drei es ee ee ey
fu cai sash

<<<Page: 319>>>

1 al pn Pace cole MM kW SS Rd hay ON em Peooe. rl , +. , ; sy
WASHINGTON: PRINTED BY A. BOY Dy HAMILTON.
1852.2

<<<Page: 320>>>

Ay 1 r fi
ut ne ey =

<<<Page: 321>>>

32d ConerEss, [SENATE. | MiscELLANEOUS, 1st Session. No. 108.
Aveustr 20, 1852. Ordered to lie on the table and be printed.
Aveust 26, 1852. Ordered, That 5000 additional copies be printed—20L0 of which for the use of the Smithsonian Institute.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, August 20, 1852. Sire: fT have the honor herewith to transmit to you the annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg leave to request that you will present the same to the Congress of the United States. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. Hon. Winriam R. Kina,
President of the Senate,

<<<Page: 322>>>

MILLARD FILLMORE, Ev-offcio Presiding Officer of the Institution. ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.
CHARLES C. JEWETT, Assistant Secretary in charge of the Library. SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary in charge of the Museum. EDWARD FOREMAN, General Assistant.
JAMES A. PEARCE, . Executive Committee. JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, j
GRAHAM N. FITCH, | cae WALTER LENOX, Building Commitiee. JOSEPH HENRY, J
W. W. SEATON, Treasurer. JAMES RENWICK, Jr., Architect. GILBERT CAMERON, Contractor.
Vice President of the United States.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
WALTER LENOX, Mayor of the City of Washington.
JAMES A. PEARCE, Member of the Senate of the United States.
JAMES M. MASON, Member of the Senate of the United States.
Member of the Senate of the United States.
GRAHAM N. FITCH, Member of the House of Representatives of the United States. WILLIAM F. COLCOCK, Member of the House of Representatives of the United States. JAMES MEACHAM, Member of the House of Representatives of the United States. RUFUS CHOATE, Citizen of Massachusetts.
GIDEON HAWLEY, Citizen of New York.
WILLIAM C. PRESTON, Citizen of South Carolina.
RICHARD RUSH, Citizen of Pennsylvania.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, Member of the National Institute, W ashington.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, Member of the National Institute, Washington.

<<<Page: 323>>>

5 f 108 J
MILLARD FILLMORE, President of the United States. a Vice President of the United States. DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State.
THOMAS CORWIN, Secretary of the Treasury. CHARLES M. CONRAD, Sceretary of War. WILLIAM A. GRAIIAM, Secretary of the Navy. NATHAN K. HALL, Postmaster General.
JOHN J. CRITTENDEN, Attorney General.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice United States, THOMAS EWBANK, Commissioner of Patents. WALTER LENOX, Mayor of the City of Washington.

<<<Page: 324>>>

SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BoARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, SHOWING THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION UP TO JANUARY 1, 1852.
To the Senate and House of Representatives :
In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures and condition of the institution, the following documents:
1. The Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations of the Institution during the year 1851, including reports from the Assistant Secretaries, relative to the library, museum, &c.
2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an account of the expenditures for the year 1851.
3. Report of the Building Committee relative to the progress made in 1851, in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice.
4, Proceedings of the Board of Regents.
5. Appendix.
Respectfully submitted, ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor. JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary:

<<<Page: 325>>>

To the Board of Regenis of the Smithsonian instituteon:
GentLemen: Besides the care of ail the property of the Institution, and the responsibility of the direction of its operations, under the control of the Regents, the secretary is required to give an account, at theie annual session, of the condition of the Justitution, and of its transactions during the preceding year.
In the discharge of this duty on the present occasion, 1 am happy to inform the Regents that the Institution under their care is still in a prosperous condition, and that since their last meeting, it has continued silently, but effectually, to enlarge the sphere of its influence and usefulness, and to elicit from every part of the civilized world commendations, not only of the plan of organization it has adopted, but also of the results it has produced.
In my last report I gave a brief account of the means employed to in-
“crease the income, so that in addition to the requirements of Congress in regard to the formation of a library and a museum, and the erection of a building on a liberal scale, operations of a more active character could be incorporated into the plan of organization.
During the past year the same policy has been observed; and though the officers of the Institution have been subjected to the inconvenience of transacting business in an unfinished building, aad in rooms not intended for the purpose, yet this has been considered of minor importance in comparison with the saving of the funds. Every dollar now expended on the building lessens the amount of accruing interest, and diminishes the means of produeing results which are to affect the world at large; hence the importance of an adherence to the plan of finishing it by degrees. Since the last session of the board, it has, therefore, not been thought advisable to urge the contractor to a rapid completion of his work, and all the expenditures on account of
the building have been made frora the accrued interest of the current year, and from a portion of that of the year preceding. There is consequently still on hand the two hundred thousand dollars of accumulated interest men~ tioned in the last and preceding reports. Of this, it will be recollected, #50,000 are to be applied towards finishing the building, and the remainder to be invested as part of the principal.
The importance of increasing the funds and of graduaily developing the operations embraced in the programme, was set forth in the last report. The Institution, it is to be hoped, is not one of a day, but is io endure as long as our government shall last; it is therefore necessary, in the begin-
ing, that we should constantly look to the future, and guard against the temptation, to which we are continually exposed, of expanding too rapidly.
By a resolution of the board, at their session in 1849, the Secretary was directed to petition Congress to take from the Institution 150,000, aud such other sums, not exceeding in all $200,000, as may have been, or shall

<<<Page: 326>>>

be received in accruing interest or otherwise, upon the same terms as those on which the original bequest had been accepted. This petition was referred to a committee and favorably reported upon, but unfortunately the press of business prevented Congress from acting upon it at their last session. The petition will again be renewed, and it is believed that so reasonable a request will meet with a favorable reception. It is, however, thought important that the amount should be increased, and that a sum of $230,000 be inserted in the petition, instead of that named in th resolution.
Tn addition to the $150,000 which the regents thus seek to invest, there is still a por tion of the original legacy remaining in England as the principal of an annuity settled upon Madame De la Batut, the mother of the nephew of Smithson, to whom his property was originally bequeathed. Besides this, | am informed, upon good authority, that the Institution is the contingent legatee of an estate of considerable magnitude, depending on ihe demise without issue of a single individual. We may also reasonably expect that if the affairs of the Institution are properly conducted, and its: funds ene oe husbanded or properly expended on the legitimate objects: of the bequest, other trusts will be committed to its care. It theref ore becomes important that the limit should be at least $250,000, so that the whole sum, including the original bequest, shall amount to a little more than $750,000. There can surely be no just grounds of fear that the income ofthis sum will be devoted to improper uses, so long as it is an essential part of the plan, to produce fruits the value of which can be judged by all who are capable of appreciating the advance of knowledge. This request is also in accordance with the policy adopted by the Institution of asking nethi ing from Congress but the safe keeping of its funds, and the appoint-
nent to its board of regents of gentlemen of intelligence and high moral pri nc} pies:
The government has thus far liberally fulfilled the obligations which it imposed upon itself in accepting the tgust. Not only has the original sum been permanently invested in the treasury of the U nited States, but interest has been allowed from the time of receiving the funds. Congress has also made several donations to the Institution, which, though they will not prove as valuable to us as could be wished, indicate a hi beral intention. The first gift was the great museum of the Exploring Expedition, for the accommodation of which the larger portion of the present building was originally intended; the sec onal was a grant of nineteen acres of land surrounding the building of the Institution; the third, a copy of every book published in the United States for which a copyright might be granted; the fourth and last gift was that of all the plates, manuscripts, &C., bE the Hixploring Expedition, for the purpose of publishing a new edition for distribution.
These donations, though made with kindly feelings and in a spirit of
liberality, have proved singularly unprofitable. The maintenance of the museum of the Exploring Expedition would subject the Institution to an annual expense which would materially interfere with more important
operations. After expending several thousand Has s on the improvement of the grounds, it has been deemed best to return them to the charge of the general government. Were the copyright act fully complied with, perhaps some benefit might accrue from it to the Institution; but in the manner in which it is at present observed, the expense of postage and of

<<<Page: 327>>>

9 [ 108 |
clerk hire in recording the titles and furnishing the certificates of deposit, has more than equalled the value to us of all the books received. Lastly, it has been estimated that the publication of a new edition of the expeasive volumes of the results of the Explormg Expedition would cost at least fifty thousand dollars. Fortunately, it has not been considered obligatory on the Institution, exeept in the case of the copyright law, to accept these eifts.
Publication of memoirs.—Since the adoption of the plan of organization, nearly fifty original m moire: purporting to be additions to the sum of human knowledge, shave been presented to the Institution for publication. Though a number of these have been returned to their authors , principally on account of not falling within the restricted class of communications ac cepted for publication, yet they have generally been productions of much merit, and have evinced a surprising activity of mind, and manifest a growing attention in this country to orginal research. The probable success of this part of the plan of orga mnization was not overrated; for, were the whole income of the institution devoted alone to publishing the results of the labors of men of literature and of science, which otherwise would never see the light, it could be pro ae) ex spended. In this respect, the Smithsonian bequest sunplies the wants which in Europe are met by richly endowed academies and national socicties.
Tt will be recollected that each memoir is printed separately, and with a separate title and paging, so that it can be distributed to persons most interested in its per usa! as soon as it comes from the press, without waiting for the completion of the volume to which it belongs. In this way, the author is enabled to present a full account of his discoveries to the world with the least possible delay, while, by the rules of the Institution, he is allowed to publish an abstract of his paper in the proceedings of the American Association for the advancement of science, or in those of any other properly organized society.
The number of copies of the Smithsonian Contributions distributed is greater than that of the transactions of any scientific or literary society, and therefore the Institution offers the best medium to be found for diffusing a knowledge of scientific discoveries.
Every memoir published by the Institution is issued with the stam of approval of a commission of competent judges, and in order to secure a cautious and candid opinion, the name of the author, and those of the examiners, are not made known to each other unless a favorable report is given, and, in this case, the names of the commission are printed, as vouchers for the character of the memoir, on the reverse of the title-page.
This plan secures an untrammelled expression of opinion, while it induces
caution on account of the responsibility which it involves.
Besides deciding on the fitness of original memoirs for publication, the Institution is continually applied to for information relative to almost every department of literature and science. Respectful attention is always given to these applications, and when the desired answer does not fall within the line of study of any officer of the Institution, it is sought for from those in whose knowledge and judgment we have full confidence. No inconsiderable portion of time is occupied in giving the information involved in the answer to these inquiries ; but Iam happy ‘to inform the board that in this servic e;
as well as in that of examining memoirs, we have received the cooperation
DoD of a considerable number of the most distinguished individuals in our coun

<<<Page: 328>>>

| 108 | 10
try, and in scarcely a single case has application for assistance in this way been refused. By the operation of the plan adopted, the Institution can command the talents and learning of the world, and with a small corps of permanent officers, or a sufficient clerical force, can discharge the duty of an association to which subjects, relative to all branches of knowledge, can be referred.
There is one class of requests which, by a resolution of the Board of Regents, we are directed to refuse, viz: those for the examination and approval of the innumerable inventions by which the ingenious and enterprising seek to better their own condition and that of the public. Were it not for this resolution, originally proposed by Governor Cass, we would be overwhelmed with applications of this kind, and have forced upon us the business of the Patent Office. Besides this, the principal object of the organization is the discovery of new truths, rather than the application of known principles to useful purposes. Not that we would undervalue the labors of the inventor ; but because practical knowledge has a marketable value which always insures its cultivation, provided the higher philosophical truths on which it 1s founded are sufficiently developed and made known.
The idea is still very eae entertained that Smithson bequeathed his property to this country for the diffusion of useful knowledge among the people, and that his intention would be best consulted by the expenditure of all the income in the publication and general distribution of tracts on practical subjects. ‘The adoption of this plan would be to dissipate the funds without beneficial effect. A single report of the Patent Office costs, in some instances, more than three times the income of the Smithsonian fund, which itself would be insufficient for the general diffusion of a single octavo page of printed matter. The property, however, was not left to the inhabitants of the United States, but to the government, in trust for the good of man; and not mere] for the dissemination or diffusion of knowledge, but, first of all, for creaung » originating, increasing it. Furthermore, Smithson does not confine his bequest to the pomeren of useful knowledge alone, in the lower sense of the term, but includes all knowledge in his liberal and philosophical design. The true, the beautiful, as well as the immediately practical, are all entitled to a share of attention. All knowledge is profitable; profitable in its ennobling effect on the character, in the pleasure it imparts in its acquisition, as well as in the power it gives over the operations of mind and of matter. All knowledge is useful ; every part of this complex system of nature is connected with every other. Nothing is isolated. The discover ry of to-day, which appears unconnected with any useful process, may, in the course of a few years, become the fruitful source of a thousand inventions.
That the encouragement of the discovery of new truths, the publication of original memoirs, and the establishment of new researches, are in conformity with the design of Smithson, is not only manifest from the terms of his will, but also “from the fact, which has lately come to our knowledge, that he at first left his property to the Royal Society of London, for the very object embraced in this part of the plan. And what prouder monument could any man desire than the perpetual association of his name with a series of new truths! This building and all its contents may be destroyed, but the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions, distributed as they are among a thousand libraries, are as alee and lasting as civilization itself.

<<<Page: 329>>>

tt [ 108 J
During the past year a number of memonrs have been accepted for publication, ‘and are either in the press, or are waiting the drawings to illustrate them, now in the hands of the engraver. It is the duty of the secretary, in accordance with the original plan of the Institution, to give a popular account of these memoirs in his annual report
The first is a memoir by Dr. Asa Gray, professor of botany in Harvard University, consisting of an account of a collection of plants made by Mr. Charles Wright, in an expedition from Texas to El Paso, in the summer and autumn of 1849.
It was stated in my report for that year, that one hundred and fifty dollars had been subscribed on the part of the Institution toward the outfit of Mr. Wright, and that the plants collected iy him would be submitted to Dr. Gray for examination and description. ‘The memoir now mentioned is the result of this arrangement, though it also contains notices of plants gathered by other collectors in adjacent regions, especially by Dr. Wislizenus in the valley of the Rio Grande and Chihuahua ; and by the lamented Dr. Gregg in the same district, and in the northern part of Mexico. This memoir is a good exposition of the character of the vegetation, and consequently of the climate, of the regions traversed.
Specimens of all the plants obtained by Mr. Wright belong to this Institution; and these, with sets collected by Fendler and Lindheimer, form the nucleus of an important and authentic North American herbarium.
Another paper on botany is by Dr. John Torrey, of the college of New Jersey, Princeton. It gives illustrations of the botany of California, and describes a number of new and interesting plants discovered by Colonel Frémont in his different explorations in that country.
Some of the plants collected by this intrepid traveller have been described in the appendix to his first and ‘second report; but many are still unpublished. Of the collections made during his third expedition, no descriptions have been given, except that two or three of the new plants were briefly characterized by Dr. Gray, in order to secure pr iority of discovery.
In the memoir presented to the Institution, Dr. Torrey has given descriptions of a number of genera of new and remarkable plants, all collected by Col. Fremont in the passes and on the sides of the Serra Nevada. With regard to this publication Dr. Torrey remarks, that he had hoped that arrangements would have been made by the government of the United States for the publication of a general account of the botany of California ; but as there is no immediate p rospe ct of such a work : being undertaken, this memoir, on some of the more interesting genera discovered by Col. Frémont, has been prepare:! for the Sinithsonian Institution.
The drawings ‘o illustrate this paper have been made, at the expense of the institution, | y Mr. Isaac Sprague, of Cambridge, who, in the opinion of Dr. Torrey, ranks among the best botanical draughtsmen of our day.
The next j aper presents the results of a series of observations made in the years 1 [5-67, to determine the dip, inclination and intensity of the magnetic force in several parts of the United States, by John Locke, M. D., professor oi chemistry in the medical college of Ohio. The results p resented in this paper are a continuation of a series derived from obseryations begun in 1537, and prosecuted annually for ten years. The first parts of the series have been published in the transactions of the American Philosophical Society, and have been incorporated by Col. Sabine, in his contributions to ‘Verrestrial Magnetism. A part of the observations given in this memoir

<<<Page: 330>>>

were made at the expense and under the direction of the United States Coast Survey. Another portion was made in accordance with the direction of the Hon. Robert J. Walker, late Secretary of the Treasury, as a part of the investigations instituted for the exploration of the mineral lands belonging to the ‘general government. ‘This paper has been examined by competent judges, “and recommended: for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions, as an important addition to knowledge.
A paper has also been presented for publication by the executors of the late Doctor Troost, of Nashville. It consists of descriptions and drawings of a very numerous family of extinct zoophytes, to which the organic remain called the stone lily belongs. The vicinity of Nashville appears to be a remarkable locality for these remains, and the paper of Protessor Troost describes several hundred species, of which two only have living representatives.
The memoir, however, is not in a condition to be published without revision, and additions to bring it up to the state of knowledge at the present time. ‘This labor has been gratuitously undertaken by Professor Agassiz, of Cambridge, and Professor James Hall, of Albany. The collection of specimens, from which the drawings were ade is now in the possession of these gentlemen, and the memoir will be published as soon as the corrections and additions are made.
The next memoir is on the winds of the northern hemisphere, by Professor James Coffin. The design of this communication, in the words of the author, is “‘to answer the following questions, Viz :
‘1, What is the average direction in w hich the lower strata of the air moves over different regions of the northern hemisphere ?
«<2. What is the rate of progress in the mean direction as compared with the total distance travelled by the wind?
“<3. What modifications do the mean direction and rate of progress undergo in the different months of the year?
“4° What is the direction of the deflecting forces that cause these modifications ?
“¢5, What is the average relative force and velocity of winds from several points of the compass ?
“6, How will the introduction or omission of the latter element affect the answer of the preceding questions? ”’
The data used in answering these questions have been collected with great labor, and consist of obser vations made at no less than five hundred and seventy-six different stations on land, and a large number taken during numerous voyages at sea. The a of observation includes a zone which extends from the equator to nearly the parte of 85° of north latitude, and occupies a period, taken in the aggregate, of 2,800 years.
Several of the foregoing questions have been answered approximately by other writers, but never, itis believed, from as extensive an induction as 1s presented in this memoir.
This paper is illustrated by a number of maps and diagrams, which render its publication very expensive. It was presented to the Institution more than a year ago, but the appropriation for printing was not sufficient to allow of its publication at that time.
The Institution has also commenced the publication of an extended memoir, consi: sting of a grammar and lexicon of the Dakota language, the results of the joint labors, during eighteen years, of the Dakota mission,

<<<Page: 331>>>

assisted by the most intelligent natives of this tribe of Indians. ‘The whole has been arranged, and placed in its present form, by the Rev. 8. R. Riggs, of the American Board.
This work was prepared under the auspices of the Historical Society of Minnesota, and recommended by this association to the favorable attention of the Smithsonian Institution. It is designed to ee the requirements of the missionary in his labor of diffusing the light of re! igion and civilization amony one of the most numerous and im porta xnt tribes of Indians in the country. It also forms an interesting addition to ethnology, which will be highly prized by all devoted to this branch of knowle: ige.
A language is not originally a thing of man’s device, or the result of conventional art, but the spontaneous production of human instinct, modified by the mental character, the physical conditions, and other peculiarities of the people or tribe among which it had its origin, or by whom it is used. It is subject to definite laws of formation and developement, and is intimately connected with the history of the migrations anil aifiliations of the people by whom it is spoken, and hence becomes an oh ject of interest to the student of the natural history of man.
In accordance with the policy of not expending the Smithsonian fand in doing with it what couid be equally well done by other means, this memoir was first referred to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, with the hope that it might be adopted as a part of the materials of the volumes published’ under the direction of that bureau; but this was not found practicable, and the task was therefore undertaken by the Institution.
The memoir will occupy an entire volume, and would have been too much for our present income, had not about one-third of the whole cost of pubheation been promised by subscription from the members of the Historical Society of Minnesota and the American Board of Missions. The latter institution defrays the expenses of Mr. Riggs while he is engaged in superinteniling the passage of the work through the press. Itisa “pleasa ant circumstance that in this instance, as well as in many other rs, the organization of the Institution enables it to co-operate with other institutions, and to assist them in their labors of promoting knowledge.
This memoir, which is now in the press, was referred for critical examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to Professor Turner, of New York. ‘The latter has furnished us with a report on the importance of collecting information relative to the different dialects now in use among the Indians.
Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, has prepared a memoir for the Institution, accompaniec d by numerous illustrations, entitled “A Flora and Fauna of Animals.” It is an elaborate history of a most remarkable series of plants, in many cases accompanied by parisitic animals, found growing, as an ordinary or natural condition, within the interior of the bodies of living animals. In some of the latter, it is. stated, growing plants are never absent ; and in a species of insects, VIZ, : Papulus Cornutus, a forest of vegetation is always found covering the inner surface of the ventriculus or secon stomach.
The plants of course are Cryptogamic, and are algoid in their character, Some are as long as half an inch, but usually they are very much smaller. They grow attached to the mucous membrane of the cavities in which they are found, and occasionally from the exterior covering of worms infesting the same cavities. Several genera and species of these plants are charac

<<<Page: 332>>>

[ 108 } 14
terized under the names of Fuéerobryus Elegans, FE. attenuatus, Arthromitus cristatus, Cladophytum comatum and Corynocladus radiatus.
The mode of growth and reproduction of several of the species has been carefully traced and fully illustrated by figures.
The researches are prefaced by some observations on the laws of parasitic life in general, which are presented in a highly philosophical manner, and entirely free from. hypothesis—the whole forming one of the most remarkable papers on physiology which has ever been produced by our countrymen.
Lieutenant Charles Henry Davis, United States Navy, Superintendent of the American Nautical Almanac, has presented a memoir on the dynamic effects of the tides.
This memoir is a continuation of one presented by the author to the American Academy a few years ago, and is of much intercst, not only in a scientific point of view, as connected with important geological changes, but also on account of the practical bearings upon the transformations which are constantly going on at the entrance of rivers, channels, and in the formation of headlands and promontories. Were our olobe a perfect spheroid of revolution, surrounded by water of uniform depth, the tides of the ocean would consist of nearly perpendicular undulations of the particles of the liquid, and a mere translation of form, without a transference of matter. But, in the case of a globe of irregular surface, covered with water of varying depth, the oscillations of the ocean must constantly produce currents in definite directions which tend continually to change the position of the movable materials which are found at the bottom of the sea, particularly as we approach land. A part of the force of the particles of water fort ming the sinking swell of the wave, in the case of an obstruction to their free descent by a diminished depth, is expended in producing a current along the inclined plane of the surface leading to. the shore.
Lieutenant Davis has entered with much ardor upon the new field of research, and after an examination of various parts of the shore of the United States, through a series of years, in which he was engaged on the coast survey, has succeeded in developing the laws of action which give rise to the changes before mentioned.
He finds that the tendency of the flood-tiae is to transport the matter from the bottom of the ocean and deposit it on land. He is enabled to explain the character of the alluvial formations, to account for their peculiar shape, their comparative sizes, their accumulation, and to predict the results of certain combinations of circumstances on their future changes. The particular object of this memoir is to inquire into the mechanical operations of the tides, and the uses they may have served in the general economy of the olohe i in directing the loose materials of the earth’s crust.
Smithsonian reports and other publications.—Since the last meeting of the Board of Regents, the report of Professor Jewett on the public libraries of the United States has been published and widely distributed. It is impossible to collect at once full and reliable accounts of all the libraries of the country, and this report is intended merely as a beginning, to be followed by others on the same subject. It has been a to all the libraries ot the United States, with the request that its deficiencies may be pointed out and additional materials furnished to render it more perfect. The great interest which is felt in this work is manifested by the amount of sta-

<<<Page: 333>>>

tistical information which has already been received in retura for this volume.
A report has also been published on the recent improvements in the chemical arts. It is compiled from articles which have appeared during the last ten years in the various journals of science and the arts in the English, French and German languages. Though this report is chiefly intended to benefit the practical man, yet it will be found interesting to the general reader, as exhibiting the cotemporaneous advance of science and art, and the dependence of the latter on the former for the improvement of its most important processes.
The accounts given in the report aliuded to do not consist of descriptions of methods which have been merely proposed and published without practical verification. On the contrary, care has been taken to select such as have been actually tried, or such as offer great probability of success from the well-established principles on which they are based.
The preparation of this report was entrusted to Professor James C. Booth, assayer of the United States mint at Philadelphia, who associated with himself Mr. Campbell Morfit, of Baltimore. The work has been executed in a manner highly creditable to the authors, and will, [ doubt not, prove very acceptable to the public. Notes will be made of the new inventions of the same class, as they appear in the journals, so that in the course of a few years another report of a similar kind, or one which may be considered a continuation of this, can be published.
Copies, at the mere cost of printing, paper and commission, are offered for sale. The matter has been stereotyped, in order to supply all the demand, and to reproduce this member of the series, should the subject be continued.
The progress of the elaborate report on the forest trees of North America, mentioned in the Jast two reports, was for some time arrested by the absence of the author, Dr. Gray, in Europe. He has now, however, returned, and will resume the preparation of the drawings, as soon as the funds of the Institution will admit of the expenditure. This work has proved a more expensive undertaking than was at first anticipated, and can only be finished on the original plan, by extending the time of its publication over several years. It will form a valuable contribution to the botany and economical and ornamental arts of our country.
Dr. F. G. Melsheimer, of Dover, Pennsylvania, has presented to the Institution a catalogue of the Coleopterous insects of North America, with references to the principal places of description. This has been put to press, but progresses slowly on account of the great care necessary in correcting the proofs. When printed, it will be of great service to the cause of American entomology.
Besides the reports, other works are in progress, among which may be mentioned a small volume by Professor Baird, consisting of practical directions for the collection and preservation of specimens of Natural History. This will be illustrated with numerous figures, and issued as soon as the engravings can be procured, A part of the letter-press has been finished. It is especially designed for the use of travellers and officers of the Army and Navy who may be inclined to make collections for the Smithsonian Institution, but will be of general interest to the cultivators of Natural History.
A volume of tables of usein Meteorology and other branches of scientifie observations, has been prepared, under the direction and at the expense of the

<<<Page: 334>>>

[ 108 j » 038
Institution, by Professor Arnold Guyot. The following are the contents of this volume, viz:
1. Thermometrical tables for the conversion of the scales of different thermometers into each other.
2. Hygrometrical tables giving the elastic force of vapor, the relative humidity &c.
3. Barometrical tables for the comparisons of different scales, reduction of observations to the freezing point, and correction for capillary action.
4. Hypsometrical tables for calculating altitudes by the barometer, and by the difference of the boiling point.
5. Tables of the corrections to be applied to the monthly means to obtain the true mean.
6. A set of miscellaneous tables frequently required in physical investigations.
These tables supply a desideratum in the English language, and will doubtless be highly prized by all engaged in physical research. It 1s proposed to extend their number so as to include a wider range of objects, and to publish them in parts to suit different purposes. Copies will be distributed with the quarto volumes of our publications, and sent to meteorological observers. The tables have been stereotyped and may therefore be offered for sale at a low rate.
Since the date of the last report, a number of separate memoirs have been bound together so as to form the second volume of the series of Smithsonian Contributions. The memoirs, an account of which has just been given, will be ready for distribution during 1852.
The second volume has been forwarded to all the colleges and other institutions specified in the rules adopted for the distribution of the Smithsonian publications in this country, and to all the first class libraries and principal literary and scientific societies abroad. Through the liberality ot . the members of the Senate of the United States and its officers, we have been enabled to send to our foreign correspondents, in addition to our own publications, copies of reports to Congress, and other works published at the expense of government. In return, the Institution has received a series of flattering acknowledgements and valuable presents, not only of the current numbers of transactions, but in several instances, of entire sets of all the volumes.
The promotion of knowledge is much retarded by the difficulties experienced in the way of a free intercourse between scientific and literary societies in different parts of the world. In carrying on the exchange of the Smithsonian volumes, it was necessary to appoint a number of agents. Some of these are American consuls, and other respectable individuals, who have undertaken in most cases to transact the business free of all charge, and in others for but little more than the actual expense incurred. These agencies being established, other exchanges could be carried on through them, and our means of conveyance, ai the slight additional expense owing \to the small merease of weight; and we have accordingly offered the privilege of sending and receiving small packages through our agency to institutions of learning, and in some cases to individuals who choose to avail themselves of it. The offer has been accepted by a number of institutions, and the result can not fail to prove highly beneficial, by promoting a more ready communion between the literature and seience of this country and the world abroad.

<<<Page: 335>>>

As a part of the same system, application was made through Sir Henry Bulwer, the British minister at Washington, for a remission “of duties on packages intended for Great Britain, and we are informed thata permanent arrangement will probably be made, through the agency of the Royal Societr, for the free passage through the “English custom-house, of all packages from this Institution.
The Smithsonian exchanges are under the special cliarge of Professor Baird, who has been unwearied in his exertions to collect proper materials, agiWohddutd the whole:to suck order aa wall combitie: security with rapidity of transmission.
The system of exchange here described has no connection with that established between national governments by Mr. Vattemare. It is merely an extension of one which has been in operation on a small scale for nearly half a century between the American Philosophieal Society and the American Academy on this side of the Atlantic, and the several scientific societies on the other.
Ancient Monuments.—The success of the first memoir published by the Smithsonian Institution has awakened much attention to American antiquities, and a number of communications have been submitted on this subject. Among these is one by Mr. William Pilgeon, of Virgima, who has spent a number of years in the exploration of mounds, and other ancient remains, on the upper branches of the Mississippi.
The results of his labors are of a very interesting character, though the facts contained in his memoir are too much mingled with the traditions received by him from the Indians, and with his own hypotheses, to be accepted as a part of the Smithsonian Contributions. After repeated conversations with Mr. Pidgeon, I was clearly of opinion that his researches ought to be given to the public i in some way, in order that his statements might receive due attention, and be corroborated er disproved by other explorers; and J am pleased to be able to state that a gentleman of Washington has undertaken to arrange and edit these researches, and that they will be published in a seperate volume for the benefit of the authors.
We have also received communications relative to mounds from Mr. Charles Whittlesey of Ghio, from Mr. Titian R. Peale of Washington, and Mr. William E. Guest of Ogdensburg, New York. The first of these may be considered as supplementary to the memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis, describing works omitted in their survey. ‘The second gives a plan and description of the mounds which formerly existed on the present site of St. Louis, Missourl, made during the ec of Major Long’s party in 1849 to that country, on their way to “the Rocky mountains. This sketch is now interesting on account of the fact that, in the 1 vapid progress of improvement, these mounds have been nearly obliter ‘ated, and that they can only be preserved to science, as they existed more than thirty years ago, by this publication.
The third is an account, with drawings, of ancient works at Prescot, in Canada west. The great size of the remains of trees which occupy the ground, evince the long time which must have elapsed since these works were constructed, and the entire absence of stone pipes and arrow heads has induced the belief that they are of a higher antiquity than those in the Ohio valley.
The last two contributions will form a single memoir, the plates for which are partially completed,

<<<Page: 336>>>

[ 108 j 18
But the most interesting circumstance connected with the study of the ancient remains of this country is a recent action of the American Antiquarian Society of Worcester, Massachusetts. This institution was founded in I8L2 by the zeal and liberality of Isaiah Thomas, for the purpose of collecting and preserving such manuscripts, pamphlets and other articles as relate to the history of this country, and for the exploration and publication of its antiquities. It was at the expense of this society that the original researches of Mr. Atwater, on the mounds of the Ohio valley, were first published, and during the last two years the condition of its funds has again enabled it to take the field, and to direct its attention to the remarkable antiquities in the State of Wisconsin.
These antiquities, it is well known, consist of re presentations, on a gigantic scale, of birds, beasts and fishes, and though many of them have been surveyed, and accounts of them given in the memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis, comparatively few of those which are said to exist have been explored or delineated. For this reason, the council of the society have engaged Mr. I. A. Lapham, an experienced engineer, to make explorations and surveys, and drawings of these mounds. “He has been engaged in these operations for two seasons, and is now employed in making up an account of his labors.
To insure harmony of action in the cultivation of the wide field of research offered in the investigations of the ancient monuments of this country, the Antiquarian Society has agreed to present to the Smithsonian Institution the results of the explorations of Mr. Lapham for publication, end to reserve its limited funds for further explorations. The memoirs will be examined and revised by the society, and will be published under its auspices in the Smithsonian Contributions.
This arrangement is another pleasing evidence of the feeling with which the efforts of this Institution are regarded, and the willingness with which other institutions co-operate with it in the important work of promoting ° original knowledge.
Eaplorations, Researches, §c.—During the last year several minor explorations have been made in the line of natural history, partly at the expense of the Institution. The sum of fifty dollars was appropriated to Professor C. B. Adams, of Amherst College, to pay in part his expenses while making collections in the West Indies and Panama. For the sum advanced, an ample return has been made in new and rare specimens. Professor Baird and Mr. Charles Girard have also made explorations which have added tu the collections of the Institution at a cost little beyond that of the expense of transportation.
In this connexion | may mention that Professor Baird has contributed the report on the vertebrate animals collected by Captain Stansbury in his expedition to the Salt Lake region, and facilities have been given at the Institution to a number of persons in making scientific reports to Congress.
A series of experiments also have been made in our laboratory by a “commission appointed by government to examine the stone proposed for the extension of the @apitol. It is believed that the Institution may, in the aid it affords the government in scientific operations, more than repay all the obligation imposed by the acceptance of the Smithsonian trust.
It was mentioned in the last report, that the specimens which were procured by Mr. Culbertson from the Upper Missouri, had been referred to Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, for examination. He has since made a report (see Appendix) giving a brief statement of the results of his inves

<<<Page: 337>>>

19 [ 108 |
tigation. From this report it appears that the specimens are of much scientific interest, showing as they do, for the first time, the existence in this country of an eocene deposite, rivaling in the number of its species of extinct animals the celebrated basiiz of Paris.
Occultations.—It has been mentioned in the preceding reports, that lists of occultations, and tables of reductions, have been published, from 1848 to 1851, inclusive. The cost of the computation of these tables, as well as that of their publication for the past two years, was borne by the Institution, but smce then Congress has ordered the establishment of an American Nautical Almanac; and as these tables will form a part of this ephemeris, Mr. Preston, the late Secretary of the Navy, directed that the expense of the computation should be defrayed from the appropriation for the Almanac, the printing and distribution to be at the charge of the Institution. A similar order has been given bv the Hon. Wm. o Graham, the present Secretary of the Aa , relative to the tables for 185! and 1852.
The tables for 1852, are much extended by the introduction of occultations visible ia every part of the earth. The form is also somewhat altered in order better to adapt it to the arrangement to be adopted by the Nautical Almanac.
The primary object of these tables is to facilitate the accurate determination of the longitude of places within the territory of the United States, and in this respect they have done good service, especially in the hands of the officers of the coast survey, and the explorers and surveyors of our new possessions on the coast of the Pacific. Their extension will render them useful to geographers in every part of the world. ‘They have been computed, for the present and the last two years, under the direction of Lieut. Davis, the accomplis hed superintendent of the American Nautical Almanac. As soon as this work, which will be an honor to the country, is ready to be issued, the publication will be relinquished by the Smithsonian Institution.
We observe again. in this case, the policy of not expending the funds of the Institution, in doing what other means can accomplish.
It will recollected that Mr. Sears C. Walker, astronomical assistant of the United States coast survey, prepared for the Smithsonian ‘Transactions a memoir containing a determination of the true orbit of the planet Neptune, and that from this orbit, and the mathematical investigations of Professor Pierce, an ephemeris of Neptune was compiled. ‘The ephemeris was prepared for the years 1845 and 1849, under the direction and at the expense ef this Institution, but for the years 1850—’51-’52, 1t was computed under the superintendence of Lieutenant Davis, and at the expense of the appropriation for the Nautical Almanac, while the cost of printing and of the distribution has been defrayed by the Institution.
The ephemeris has been generally adopted by the principal astronomers of the world, and Professor Airy, the astronomer royal of Great Britain, has undertaken the labor, in his last volume of Greenwich Observations, of critically comparing his observations on the planet 1 in the heavens with the predictions of the Smithsonian ephemeris. irom these .comparisons it is found that the ephemeris gives the position of the planet with a degree of precision not inferior to that with which the places of the planets longest known are calculated. The labors, therefore, of Mr. Walker on the elements, and Professor Pierce on the theory of the planet Neptune, have been crowned with complete success. It is proposed hereafter to collect all the

<<<Page: 338>>>

observations which may have been made on the planet, and compare them with the ephemeris, in order, if necessary, still further to correct the orbit.
Meteorology.—Tne general system of meteorology now in operation in this country, and described in the last report, has during the past year been continued and gradually extended. The instruments constructed under the direction of the Institution, with the aid of Professor Guyot, have been further improved, and some slight changes, indicated by experience, have been made to render them more convenient to the practical observer and they may now be considered not only equal in accuracy to the instruments of the best construction from abroad, but in some respects superior. They are furnished with the means of ready po eone a to the standard instruthents, and being in every instance accurately compared before they are used, an nd the error corrected, the labor of inserting a correction in the journal is avoided. New efforts have also been made to obtain a still more accurate comparison between the standard barometer of this country and those of the more important European observatories. For this purpose a second standard barometer by Newman, compared with the standard of the Royal Society, and a barometer by Ernst, compared with the standard of the Paris observatory, were ordered at the expense of the Institution. By a long series of comparisons between these two instruments and others at Cambridge, (Massachusetts,) Toronto, (Canada West,) and Washington city, the object sought has, it is believed, been obtained. The thermometers also, constructed by Mr. Green, of New York, for the Institution, have been compared with European standards, and an important step has thus been made towards obtaining reliable results as to the absolute meteorological elements of the different parts of this continent.
It was stated in the last report that the regents of the university of New York had made an appropriation for supplying thirty-three academies in that State with instruments, and had given the establishment of the whole system in charge to this Institution. ‘The State of Massachusetts has also made a similar appropriation and arrangement. During the past year the instruments for this State have been constructed, and a part of the stations established under the care of Professor Guyot.
At the last meeting of the American association, a report was made, and a series of resolutions adopted, (see appendix) for extending the system of observations with the same instruments to other parts of this continent. These resolutions directed the committee to memorialize Congress for aid in extending the system under the direction of this Institution ; to request the Seeretary of the ‘Treasury to provide for making observations at uae several light-houses to be established on the coast of California; to ask the surgeon-general to establish new stations at important points; to memorialize the other States of the Union to follow the example of New York and Massachusetts, and also the Canadian government to cooperate in the same enterprise.
What may be the result of the labors of the members of the committee to which this dt ity is entrusted, it is impossible to say. They can scarcely fail, however, to awaken a more general interest in the enterprise, and to receive a favorable response to some of the requests.
Since the date of the last report, the system particularly intended to investigate the nature of American storms, immediately under the care of this Institution, has been continued and improved, both in the number of the stations, and) 4 in some degree, in the character of the instruments. . An

<<<Page: 339>>>

21 [ 108 |
appropriation was made to furnish a larger number of stations than previously with barometers and thermometers, by distributing these instruments in some cases entirely at the expense of the Institution, and in others by selling them to the observers at half their original cost ; but the demand was so great, and the loss by breakage in transmitting the instruments so frequent, that the appropriations were soon exhausted, and until we can afford to devote a large sum to the object, and employ a special ayent to transport the articles Yo their destination, it will be inadvisable to attempt anything more in this way.
Though the instruments employed by these observers in some cases can not be relied on for giving absolltte results, yet they serve a good purpose in determining changes of pressure and temperature, and the returns give all the varying phases of the sky.
Thus far, the returns which have been received from this system have been arranged in folio volumes, and a beginning has been made in the way of deducing general conclusions from them, which may test the value of the observations and lead to their i improvement by suggesting other objects of inquiry. The results already obtained give promise of interesting and valuable additions to our knowledge of the nature of the storms which traverse this continent during the winter seasons, and will probably serve to settle definitely several theoretical questions of much interest to the meteorologist.
The meteorological correspondence of the Institution is principally attended to by Professor Foreman, and the labor which this involves is sufficient to occupy the greater portion of his time. The letters reccived from this class of coéperators are not confined to the subject of meteorology, but include the whole domain of physical science. We consider it, as before observed, a duty in all such cases to give the information required ; and if this is not in the possession of the officers connected with the Institution, it is procured from other sources.
For the details as to the management of the meteorological affairs of the Institution, see Professor Foreman’s report on this subject.
Library and Collections.—It will be recollected that the income of the Tnstitution was, by a compromise alluded to ina former report, to be divided into two equal parts, one part to be devoted to the formation of a museum, a library and a gallery of art, and the other to publications, researches and other active operations. The terms of this compromise have been rigidly adhered to, as will be seen by a reference to the general statement of accounts given in the last report. Up to the date of the appointment of Professor Baird, in July, 1850, the part of the income devoted to the collections was expended on the library, or on objects pertaining to it. Since that time, a portion has been devoted to the museum.
It is proper to remark that this compromise was founded upon another, namely, that the cost of the building and furniture should be limited to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. But in order to the better security of the collections, the regents have since found it necessary to add, in round numbers, fifty thousand dollars to this sum, which must of course diminish the income which would otherwise have been devoted to the active operations.
It is evident that one spirit, if possible, should pervade the whole organization, and that the same policy should be adopted with reference to all parts of the plan. Among the maxims which have been acted upon, that

<<<Page: 340>>>

{ 168 | 22
of occupying ground untenanted by other institutions, and of doing nothing with the funds which can be equally well accomplished by other means, has commended itself to the intelligent and reflecting portion of the public ; and it has always appeared to me that this is as applicable to the formation of collections of books and specimens, as to the publications and other operations of the Institution.
With reference to the library, the idea ought never be entertained that the portion of the limited income of the Smithsonian fund which can be devoted to the purchase of books, will ever be sufficient to meet the wants of the American scholar. On the contrary, itis the duty of this Institution to increase those wants by poimting out new fields for exploration, and by stimulating other researches than those which are now cultivated. It is a part of that duty to make the value of libraries more generally known, and their want in this country more generally felt; to show in what branches of knowledge our libraries are most deficient; to point out the means by which those deficiencies can be supplied ; to iastruct the public in the best methods of procuring, arranging, cataloguing and preserving books; to give information as to the best form and construction of library buildings; m short, to do all which was originally intended in the plan of rendering ‘the Institution a centre of bibhographical knowledge, to which the American scholar can refer for all information relative to books in general, and particularly to those in our own country. The libraries of the country must be supplied by the country itself; by the general government; by the State governments; by cities tome and villages: ; and by wealthy and liberal individuals. It is to be hoped that in the restoration of the hbrary of Congress, a foundation will be laid for a collection of books worthy ofa government whose perpetuity principally depends or the intelligence of the people.
The proper management of books, and general instruction as to their use, are matters perhaps of more importance than their accumulation in any one place. It is aaa that about twenty thousand volumes, including pamphlets, purporting to be additions to the sum of human knowledge, are pubshed annually ; and unless this mass be properly arranged, and the means furnished by which its contents may be ascertained, literature and science will be overwhelmed by their own unpneldy bulk. The pile will begin to totter under its‘®wn weight, and all the additions we may heap upon it will tend to add at the extension of the base, without increasing the elevation and dign Lity of the edifice.
One of the most in uportant means of facilitating the use of libraries, particularly with reference to science, is well digested indexes of subjects, not — merely referrimg to volumes or books, but to memoirs, papers, and parts of scientific transactions and systet natic works. As an example of this, I would refer to the admirably arranged and valuable index to natural philosophy and the mechanical arts by Dr. Young. ‘If my library were on fire,” said a celebrate d. author, ‘and IE could save but one scientific book, it would be Dr. Yor une’s index.’’ ‘This work comes down to 1807; and I know of no richer gift witch could be bes towed upon the science of our own day than the continuation of this index to the present time. Every one who is desirous of enlarging the bounds of human knowledge should, in justice tohimself, as well as to the public, be acquainted with what has previously been done in the same Iie, and this he will only be enabled to accomplish by the use of indexes ot ihe kind abéve mentioned.
The most important operation during the past year relative to the library,

<<<Page: 341>>>

28 | 108 |
is the progress made by Professor Jewett in completing ius plan of stereotyping catalogues with separate titles, described in the ‘last report.
To reduce this plan to practice a series of original experiments were required, involving the expenditure cf much time and labor. For this purpose, in preference to the usual method of stereotyping, a new one, invented by Mr. Josiah Warren, of Indiana, has been adopted : on the recommendation ot a committee to whom it was referred for examination. It is a fact well known to inventors, that however simple the theoretical plan of effecting a desired object may appear, a series of unforeseen difficuties must be encountered in the details, before the idea can be realized m actual results. These difficulties, in the present case, it is believed have been overcome, and the plan is now ready to be applied to the formation of a general and uniform catalogue of the libraries of the country. The course proposed is first to proceéd with thé catalogues of the library of the institution in accordance with the rules recommended by the commission appointed to report on this subject. This, sheneoty ped by the new process, may be distributed as a model for the other libraries which may adopt the plan. After all parts of the plan have thus been thoroughly tried, it will be desirable to commence on some large collection. The late accident which has happened to the library of Congress will induce the necessity of a new catalogue, and it is hoped that a | liberal and enlightened policy will lead to the at doption of the Smithsonian plan. This will not only enable the government to issue, at a trifling expense, a new catalogue every year, with all the additions in their proper place, but also to assist in giving to the country an improved
system of cataloguing, and facilitate the production of a general catalogue of all the libraries of the country.
Since the publication of the account of Mr. Jewett’s plan of forming general catalogues, the invention has been claimed separately by two individuals in Europe. It is true, the want of such a plan has long been felt, and a general idea may have been conceived as to how it might be accomplished, but no attempts have been made to reduce it to practice, and indeed had they been made, they could not have succeeded, and would have done injury to the cause. ‘The conditions necessary to success never before existed, and a premature attempt always tends to lessen public confidence in an enterprise, when the proper time for its actual accomplishment arrives. Besides this, there is a wide difference between the mere suggesting the possibility of a plan, and actually overcoming the difficulties which arise at every step in reducing it to ee
With reference to the copyright law, something ought to be done to put the whole matter on a better footing. I repeat the assertion before made, that this law, as it now exists, imposes a tax on the Institution, without an adequate return. The great majority of the books received are such as are found in almost every public and private library ; but very few of them would ever be purchased by the Institution, and are conseque ently dear at any price, even that of shelf-room and attendance, not to mention cost of transportation and of furnishing the certificates.
Granting the proposition that it is important a copy of every book originally published i in this country should be somewhere preserved, it does not follow that the Smithsonian fund ought to be burdened with the expense of this charge.
If they should be preserved, i it becomes the duty of Congress to provide for their care, as much as it does for that of the models of the Patent Office,

<<<Page: 342>>>

and no good reason can be assigned why the one should not be imposed upon the Institution as well as the cther. Indeed, models are a species of books intended to convey ideas which printing cannot impart.
The objection to the present arrangement may be obviated by adopting the suggestion of Professor Jewett, that but one copy, instead of three, of each book, be sent to Washington for deposite, and that m place of the other two copies, a small fee be paid’to the Institution, sufficient to defray all expenses; the maxim again being applied of not expending the funds in doing that which can and ought to be done by other means.
By reference to the report of the Librarian, it will be seen that the collection of books has continued to be increased by purchase, by copyright and by exchange. From the last mentioned source the Institution is obtaining a most valuable series of books of the highest mterest to the scientific student, consisting principally of the transactions and proceedings of learned societies. In a few years, it is believed, as complete a collection of these will be gathered as it 1s possible to obtain.
The museum isto consist, according to the law of Congress, and the terms of the compromise, of ‘‘objects of art, of foreign and curious research and of natural history, of plants and geological and mineralogical specimens.”? It would, however, be unwise in the Institution to attempt the formation of full collections of all these objects, or, in other words, to form an establishment similar to that of the British museum. The whole income devoted to this object would be entirely inadequate. The portion of the main building appropriated to the museum consists of a single room two hundred feet long by fifty feet wide. This space may be entirely filled in the course of three years, without the purchase of a single article, if the means be adopted which present themselves at the seat of government for making collections. But when this space is filled the accumulation of specimens must cease, or an addition be made to the building, which, to harmonize with the present edifice, would imvolve a large expenditure. The question then arises, from what source is this money to be obtained? It cannot be derived:from the annual income of the capital, for this would cripple the more important operations. It may be said that Congress will furnish the means; but this is relying on a very uncertain source, and the policy of applying to Congress for any aid is doubtful.
Furthermore, a promiscuous collection, embracing full sets of the objects above specified, is unnecessary in carrying out the plan of organization of the Institution.
For example, the organic remains brought from the upper Missouri by Culbertson, have been examined and reported on by Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, in that city; and the plants from California and Mexico have been referred to Dr. Torrey at Princeton, and to Dr. Gray at Cambridge. In this way, not only has the learning of these gentlemen been brought into requisition, but also their special cabinets rendered subservient to our use. The codperation of the learning and talent, as well as the use of the libraries and collections of the whole country, is an essential feature of the plan and ought not to be dost sight of. ;
I would, however, distinctly disavow the intention of underrating the importance of collections in themselves. On the contrary, it ought to be the duty of the Smithsonian Institution to pomt out the means by which they may be made, and to aid in the work, to the extent of its ability, by

<<<Page: 343>>>

25 [ 108
embracing all opportunities which may offer for procuring specimens for distribution, and by facilitating exchange and assisting explorati ons. Though the formation of a general collection is neither within the
means nor the province of the Institution, it is an object which ought to engage the attention of Congress. A general museum appears to be a necessary establishment at the ‘seat of government of ev ery civilized nation. The navy, the army, and the whole corps of commerci ial and diplomatic agents in foreign countries, all consider it their duty to send to the seat of government of their own nation, every object which may serve to improve or to interest the people. Indeed the government of the United States has already formed the nucleus of such a museum in the collections now in the Patent Office. An establishment of this kind can only be supported by covernment, and the proposition ought never to be encouraged of puttin this duty on the limited though hberal bequest of a foreigner. The ‘Smithsonian Institution will readily take the mental direction of an establishment of this kind, give plans for its organization and arrangement, provided it be requeste ed to do so, and the means for effecting the object be liberally supplied.
I make these remarks with reference to the collections, because I am fully impressed with the fact that the tendency of the Institution will be to a statical condition, in which the income will be absorbed in the support and accommodation of objects of a doubtful or contingent value. There is even danger in receiving donations from individuals. The articles may be valuable in part, but may consist also of much which the institution cannot well afford to keep. Besides this, it is extremely difficult to discharge, acceptably, the duty of the curator of property thus acquired. Since the house-room and the income of the Institution for the accommodation and support of collections are limited, great care must be exercised in the choice of the articles, and preference given to those which are of importance in determining problems of interest, and which give promise of the ready production of new and interesting results.
For a detailed account of the additions to the museum during the past year, and the present state of the collections, I must refer to Professor Baird’s report herewith presented.
In an appendix to this will be found a list of the donations, with the names of the donors alphabetically arranged. ‘These consist principally of specimens not generally found in other collections, and though they may not be very attractive to ordinary visitors, the student of natural history will find in them much of interest.
The circular prepared by Professor Baird, describing the method of collecting and preparing specimens, and indicating objects especially desirable, has proved effective in procuring important contributions.
Among the objects which should be collected and preserved with care, are the remains of the specimens of the arts of the ereiatl inhabitants of this country, the contents of mounds, and the stone implements found on the surface of the earth. The implements and industrial products of the present tribes of Indians should also be gathered as the materials for the advance of the new and interesting science of ethnology. Of the eontents of mounds, but a limited amount of specimens exist, sd as these are not, like the spontaneous productions of nature, constantly in the process of reproduction, every article should be diligently sought for, and care fully preserved. Somme additions have been made to the collections in this line.

<<<Page: 344>>>

The museum of natural history, besides plants and minerals, numbers eighteen hundred and fifty jars, containing specimens in spirits, of mammalia, reptiles, fishes, articulata, mollusca and radiata, amounting in all to twentyfive hundred species. Besides these, there are about nine hundred specimens of skulls and skeletons, and three thousand of skins of European and American birds.
Lectures.—In accordance with the suggestion contained in the act of incorporation of the Institution, courses of lectures have been given during the past year in the lecture-room of the Smithsonian building, and the reports of these lectures are generally copied in the public papers throughout the Union. Though the plan of diffusing knowledge by means of lectures is too restricted in its influence to meet fully the liberal views of the Smithsonian bequest, yet there is no place in the United States where such means will have a tendency to affect more minds and do more good than in the city of Washington, where persons from all parts of the country assemble during the sessions of Congress. It was supposed, at first, that the interest in these lectures would soon die away ; but the experience ‘of three years has indicated no tendency of this kind. This is in part owing to the constant influx of strangers and change of inhabitants. Besides this, there is in this city, in proportion to the whole number of inhabitants, a large number of intelligent persons with moderate salaries, who gladly avail themselves of the means of improvement offered by the gratuitous lectures of the Institution.
As an evidence of the high appreciation of the advantages which these lectures afford the citizens of Washington, I may mention that the corporation of the city has ordered, since the last meeting of the board, a bridge to be constructéd over the canal at Tenth street, for the special accommodation of those who attend the evening instruction given at the Institution. This BNE: with a well-drained and well-lighted path across the public grounds, will afford a direct and comfortable approach to the building from a central point on Pennsylvania avenue.
In my last report I mentioned the fact that much complaint had been made through the public papers on account of the size of the lecture-room. It was the original intention of the Regents to construct a lecture-room in the main building, though, according to the plan proposed, the number of persons it would Bott wouldis scarcely have been greater than'that now accommodated. This plan, however, was thought to be unsafe, because it was at first not wen ea to fire-proof the interior; but since, an opposite course has been resolved upon, a large lecture-room may with safety be constructed in the main building, and the present lecture-room, having tempo-_ rarily served the purpose, may be applied to other uses.
The proper construction of a lecture-room is, however, a problem of great difficulty, which m the present instance will be much enhanced by the form and peculiarities of the building. It must be well-adapted to sight, to sound, to ventilation and warming. A room might be constructed which would seat five thousand persons; but we know of none such, in every part of which anyordinary speaker can be distinctly heard. Too much must therefore not be expected with reference to the new lecture-room, though every endeavor will be made to render it as perfect as the conditions to which it is unavoidably subjected will allow.
The selection of the lecturers, and the arrangement of the courses, have been found, in some cases, an unpleasant and perplexing duty. The gen

<<<Page: 345>>>

tlemen invited, as a general rule, have been men of high standing, and have been chosen on account of their reputation and moral worth, rather than with reference to their proficiency in the art of rhetoric. It is not the aim of the Institution in these lectures merely to please the ear, but to impart important truths which may be valued for their own sake.
Many applications have been made for the use of the lecture-room of the Institution for pay lectures and exhibitions of a private character, but these have in all cases been refused. The use of the room has, however, on several occasions been given to the faculty of Columbia College, and also for the meetings of the Teacher’s Association of the District of Columbia. The organization of this association took place in the Smithsonian building in 1850, and its meetings have been regularly held in the lecture-room from that time to the present. It is believed that the spirit of the will of Smithson is properly consulted, in giving encouragement and rendering facilities to these meetings. The association has been kept up with much ‘spirit, and I am sure that much good has resulted from the organization. It has served to cherish a feeling of harmony among the teachers, and to awaken a spirit of improvement relative to education and general knowledge.
The following is a list of the titles of lectures given before the institution during the last session of Congress, with the names of the gentlemen by whom they were delivered :
A course of six lectures on History as a science, and a single one on Poetry, by Dr. Samuel H. Cox, of Brooklyn, New York.
Two lectures on Induction and Association, by Dr. John Ludlow, Provost of the University of Pennsylvania.
A course of five lectures on Entomology, and one on the Alps, by Rev. Dr. John G. Morris, of Paleimore, Maryland.
Two lectures on the History and the Forms of the E1 1 Language, by Professor W. C. Fowler, of Amherst, Massachusetts.
One lecture on the Architecture of the Middle Ages, by Dr. A. 1. Vinton, of Boston.
Two lectures by Professor 8.8. Haldeman, of Columbia, Pennsylvania, on the Mechanism of Speech, and its bearing upon the natural history of the human race.
Two lectures on Geology, by Dr. Benjamin Silliman, Sr., of Yale College, New Haven.

<<<Page: 346>>>

a) Ae
A iti shal rd i peal? ony.) SORT ts
Ha iy =
if A | Qt ey pst ai}
ae | te git: ae yreit * re ‘ hips : j i ; i y ‘ ‘ an i ' ‘ (es ; ‘4 aii % e i . 1 fa’ if } « ’ =e a | | FV) i sal tO TOMER) vrs | % 4 ) ak : 1 | ii as A iets ~ ; | + tet nh ! * i . ides ey a wove Hy SAYS i jin VP gat o bach Kath ui wlodal piele pags 2 il } r fe iG vane: Py (ty Reh I say sha K P . > nt eo aes ‘} uy Pe Te he 2 bey i $1 . s

<<<Page: 347>>>



<<<Page: 348>>>

30 ‘
To the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution :
Sir: In compliance with my official duty, 1 present to you, at this time, a report upon the affairs of the library during the year 1851.
The following table shows the number of books and other articles, which have been received since the last annual report:
Sources. | Books. Pamph-| Engra| Maps.| Music. Drawel Other | | Totals.
| lets. vings. ings. articles.)
| | l a2 | Ps
z —|| | | PURCHASES cere) s oe 414 | Silandoooas| Fou Haleoablon tall do bet leeeeee .| 4i9 Donations......+.... 549 | GIS le acaio:s cell ersten eee eee eer 4 | 1,167
{ ! | Copyaightsen eters s/s | 489 | A | i) BH Ou se aileis 21, 1,189 Motalreeiye. ais 1,452 | ROM ere w.c rere 9 Siowltersvsise 21 | 2,725
Adding these sums to the aggregates of the last year, we obtain the following table, exhibiting the whole number of books and other articles at present belonging to the library, and the sources from which they have been received.
| | | | | Sources. Books. Pamph| Engra|Maps.| Music. |Draw-| Other | Totals.
lets. | vings. ings. articles. Lae 2 es La alae toi aT ChASeS|.;.\s3.:6\ctsrsi6 we] 8,232 39 | 1,335 DQ Nieeraterleves \lsvetelejele,|/easie/ejoia| O08 Don atiOnsis.:s sie hisieisie Resear Sha bag DROS 48 OAK | SaaS I SOM cases el ueseeaiss Copy-rights. ....... .| 1,828 TZ: | 9 Ae) ly AOA dl sana | » 67 ).89196 Deposites ....... 00 rie eel -|NIE) TE GAs Ben PPR ert J Si Motalsckexve. | 7,109} 2,093 | 1,892] 70) 1,284/ 80] 67 | 11,895 |
The purchases have been few, and limited to works required for immediate use. Until the completion of our building and the appropriation of all the funds of the Institution to their per manent objects, the increase of the library from this source must continue to be small. The books which are needed for immediate use must of course be procured, if possibie, at whatever cost; but with respect to all other works, it will doubtless be well to allow our funds to accumulate, in order to make a more considerate purchase when more favorable opportunities may occur.
The manner of buying books, a few at a time, in this country, is inordinately expensive. ‘The saving by purchases through a competent agent at the book auctions and antiquarian shops of Europe, should not be reckoned by a per centage ; it is rather the obtaming of books for a half or a quarter
of the price which they would cost through the regular channels of the importation trade.
The number of books received by exchange has been considerably larger than it was during the preceding year. The books are, too, of a valuable class, consisting mostly of the current publications of learned societies in Europe and America. Jn some cases, complete sets of these publications

<<<Page: 349>>>

have been received. Doubtless, many more would be obtained, could more direct application be made for them.
The number of books received under the copyright law has gradually increased each year, but does not yet include more than half for which copyrights are secured in the United States. In my previous reports I have repeatedly alluded to this subject. It seems to me very important that it should receive the particular attention of the Board of Regents at the present time. Existing laws respecting the deposit of copies of books and other articles for which copyrights are secured, have failed almost entirely to fulfil the intentions of Congress. Authors and publishers complain of injustice, The demands of literature are not answered. The institutions intended to be benefited find the boon to be of very doubtful value. In short, no one of the parties interested is satisfied with the law in its present condition. The committee of the board, to whom was referred a special report upon this subject, presented by my self three years ago, was prevented, by the pressure of other business upon its members, from entering into an examination of the matter. I beg leave, therefore, to repeat at this time the recommendations of that report, with the erounds upon which they were founded.
The copyright laws of most nations require the delivery to the government, or to libraries designated by it, of a copy, or of several copies, of every work for which copyright is claimed. As far as I have been able to ascertain, in Saxony and in Portugal only one copy is demanded ; in France, Austria, Russia, Bavaria, Denmark and Prussia two coples are required; in the Italian States generally » Holland, Belgium and the United States, three copies ; in England, five co pies ; in Sweden, four or five copies. The number in several of these countries has varied at different periods.
This requirement had its origin in France, as far back as 1537. Its object is two-fold :
First, the deposit is considered necessary to the complete protection of fhe author. Jf his copyright be infringed, it may be important for him to be able to produce a certified copy of his work in order that it may be compared with the alleged counterfeit. In no other way can he be sure of finding such a copy than by making the deposit a condition of the copy-
ight laws. It is like the model of a machine deposited in the patent office. Judge McLean, in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United “States, in the case of "Wheaton versus Peters, says: “The deposit of the book in the Department of State may be important to identify it at any future period, should the copyright be disputed, or an unfounded claim of authorship asserted.”
The second reason for the requirement is the public benefit. ‘The right of the government to demand copies of the work for this purpose, 1s a necessary consequence of the established theory of the copyright law.
The Enelish and American courts agree in resting the right of an author to the exclusive privilege of printing and selling his “book, upon the statute, and not upon the common law. «Congress, ” says Judge McLean, in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court in the case of Wheaton vs. Peters, “instead of sanctioning an existing right, created it.” He says, further, with respect to the right of the government to demand copies, “No one can deny that when the legislature are about to vest an exclusive right in the author or inventor, they have the power to prescribe the condition on which such right should be enjoyed.”’

<<<Page: 350>>>

[ 108 | 32
Tt is manifest, however, that inasmuch ag the law is intended to encourage the production of books, no conditions should be annexed to it which would be onerous to publishers ; for such conditions would tend to defeat the very end proposed to be answered by the statute. ‘Too many copies should not therefore be required. In England at one time eleven copies were demanded. It was made to appear that the law, with such conditions, operated as a discouragement to the publication of expensive works ; it was, In consequence, changed. Five copies are now required, and a sum of money amounting to £2,800 a year is paid by the government to the other six libraries, in compensation for the loss of the privilege which they previously enjoyed. ;
The benefit of the deposit to the public is very great. It is universally allowed to be important for the interests of learning that in every country there should be at least one library where every book, pamphlet, or literary production of any kind, issued in the country should be carefully preserved. Now, it is utterly impossible to collect the whole in any other way than by making the deposit a condition to the vesting of the right of copy.*
The advantage of the deposit to learning seems to have been the sole motive for its first introduction, and not, as is sometimes supposed, the censorship. Francis the first, of France, in 1537, gives as the ground for requiring a copy for the royal library at Blois, that these books « will be veritable proofs of that praiseworthy restoration of letters occurring in our time through our diligence, care and labor, id bi and that recourse may be had to themif perchance the books should perish from the memory of man, or be varied from the true and original publication.” (See Renouard, Traité des Droits d’ Auteurs, T. i, p. 42.) No mention is made of their use for the purposes of the censorship, which, indeed, must be exercised before the printing of the book, and not afterw ards. In another ordinance of the same year, explanatory to the one above cited, the king expressly declares, that it was not intended to affect the censorship i in any way ; and again, in an ordinance of 1538, appointing Nicobar, Greek printer, it is ordered that “a copy of every book printed shall be deposited i in the royal library, to the end that should any calamities befall literature, posterity might there find a resource for repairing, in part, the loss of books.” (Renouard ut sup.) ‘The legal deposit, it is manifest, had its origin in an enlightened regard for learning, and not in any odious restrictions upon the liberty of the press.
* This aa is een W ith great at ability by Peomece: Libri in a letter to the chairman of the committee of the House of Commons on public libraries, dated May, 1849. The following extracts deserve particular attention. They occur ina work but rarely to be found in this country, and are strikingly appropriate and convincing. I hope, therefore, that I shall be excused for inserting them, notwithstanding their great length. (See report of the House of Commons on public libraries, for 1849, page 118 ‘to 120. ) «« AsT have already stated in my evidence, in my opinion, and as all educated men agree, it is necessary that in a great country there should be at least one library in which one may expect to find, as far as it is possible, all books which learned men, men who occupy themselves upon any subject whatever, and who cultivate one of the branches of human knowledge, may require to consult. Of these there is nothing useless, nothing ought to be neglected; the most insignificant in appearance, those which on their publication have attracted the least attention, sometimes become the source of valuable and unexpected information.
«You know better than me, sir, that itis in the fragments, now so rare and precious, of some alphabets, of some small grammars published for the use of schools about the middle of the fifteenth century, or in the letters distributed in Germany by the religious bodies commissioned to collect alms, that bibliographers now seek to discover the first process employed by the inventors of xylography and of typography. It is in a forgotten collection

<<<Page: 351>>>

It follows, then, from the facts and considerations which have been presented, that one copy of every book should be demanded of its author to be reserved in some public national library, both for his own sake and for that of the public. The legislature have the undoubted right to demand several copies as a condition to the granting of an exclusive right to the publioation and sale of the book, provided that they do not demand so many as to impose a burden upon the publisher, and thus discourage instead of encourage the publication of books. The interest of the author and of the public (which when rightly understood can never be at variance) may alike require that more than one copy should be thus deposited; for if but one be deposited, and that be destroyed by fire or other casualty, the benefit of the deposit would be lost.
It ought to be remarked further, that the exacting of copies by the government implies an obligation to preserve them carefully, and to make them subservient to the purposes, both public and private, for which the deposit is made.
In this respect our own copyright law is defective. It requires the book to be deposited within three months after its publication, in the office of the clerk of the district in which the author resides. It also directs the clerk to transmit the copy to the State Department at Washington. It makes, however, no provision for the transmission, and it establishes no supervision. The consequence is, that not more than one half of the books for which copyrights are secured in the country ever reach the State’ Department, and no record is transmitted when the books are not sent.
Those books which are received are now kept in a room by themselves. They are, however,lent out to persons connected with the department; they are not properly recorded ; no stamp is placed upon them for their identification ; no catalogue is kept of them; they are not accessible for general use. Thus the benefit to the public is almost entirely lost.
The supreme court has decided that the deposit of the copy in the State Department is essential to a valid title ; but in case of the loss of the certificate, the author has no certain means of establishing his claims. The benefit to the author is therefore lost (as in the case of Wheaton) or liable to be lost, though he may have fulfilled all the conditions of the law.
The requirement of a copy of every book and other article for which a copyright is secured, for the Smithsonian Institution, and also for the library of Congress, is made in the tenth section of the act of Congress establish-
of indifferent plates published at Venice, by Fausto Verantio, towards the end of the sixteenth century, that an engineer who interests himselfin the history of the mechanical arts, might find the first diagram of iron suspension bridges.
«Nothing should be neglected; nothing is useless to whoever wishes thoroughly to study a subject. An astronomer who desires to study the motions pecculiar to certain stars, requires to consult all the old books of astronomy, and even of astrology which appear the most replete with error. A chemist, aman who is engaged in the industrial arts, may still consult with profit certain works on alchemy, and even on magic. <A legislator, a jurisconsult needs sometimes to be acquainted with the laws, the ordinances which derive their origin from the most barbarous ages. But it is particularly for the biographer, for the historian, that it is necessary to prepare the largest field of inquiry, to amass the greatest quantity of materials. That is not only true as regards past times, but we ought to prepare the material for future students. Historical facts which appear the least important, the most insignificant anecdotes registered in a pamphlet, mentioned in a placard or in asong, may be connected, at a later period in an unforeseen manner, with events which acquire great importance, or with men who are distinguished in history by their genius, by their sudden elevation, or eveu by their crimes. We are not born celebrated; men become so; and when we desire to oe the history of those who have attained it, the inquirer is often obliged to
1s.—2

<<<Page: 352>>>

ing the Smithsonian Institution. No penalty is attached to a neglect of the requirement. It has therefore been generally held to be merely directory. In the case of Jollie vs. Jaques, (Southern District New York,) it was held that the delivery of eopies to the two libraries was not a prerequisite to a title to copyright. By many also it is doubted whether, inasmuch as this enactment does not purport to be an amendment to the copyright law, a demand for the copy, in case it were refused, would be enforced .by the courts.
Many publishers are not aware of the law; others regard it as unjust, and refuse to comply with it on that account ; others, again, find compliance inconvenient, and, not considering it essential, neglect it. The consequence is, that not half the books to which we are entitled are received by us. Music being issued by fewer publishers, and being more easily sent, has generally been deposited ; so also have labels of patent medicines. The labor of issuing certificates for these and recording them, is as great as for the books, whilst they have scarcely any appreciable and permanent value.
The books are frequently sent by mail, sometimes sealed, thus subjecting the Institution to letter postage upon them. The postmaster "is directed to open such packages ; but not unfrequently sealed letters are found within them, and thus the whole package is chargeable with letter rates. This indeed is the case not only with respect to books received under the copyright law, but also with respect to those received by donation. We have taken every means to make known the fact that we do not possess the franking priviJege. We have invariably written to the publishers or donors of works who have made to us these expensive presents, and have several times received for reply that they were misinformed by the local postmaster, who had stated to them that the Smithsonian Institution was entitled to receive letters and packages without the payment of postage. It would seem to be inferred from the connection of the Smithsonian Institution with the government, that it of necessity possesses the franking privilege. We are thus subjected to great expense, W which it is impossible for us to avoid, or materially to diminish.
The whole value of the books received during the year 1851 by the copyright clause of our charter has been estimated at four hundred and fifty dollars, which is perhaps a low estimate, taking no account of maps, music and other articles. The expenditure for postage and transportation of these, Hee with the time and labor a m une certificates, may
pursue his researches in hese most aie basins Who would have slfaenen that the obscure author of a small pamphlet, « Le Souper de Beaucaire,’ would subsequently become the Emperor Napoleon, and to write fully the life of the execrable Marat, one ought to have ~ the very insignificant essays on physics that he published before the revolution. Nothing is too unimportant for whoever wishes thoroughly to study the literary or scientific history of a country, or for one who undertakes to trace the intellectual progress of eminent minds, or to inform himself in detail of the changes which have taken place in the institutions and in themannersofanation. Without speaking of the commentaries or considerable additions which have been introduced in the various reprints of an author, the successive editions of the same work, which appear to resembie each other the most, are often distinguished from each other by peculiarities worthy of much attention.
«« Amateurs of Italian literature seek with avidity for the various editions of the ‘ Orlando Furioso,’ and of the « Jerusalemme Liberata,’ published in the lifetime of Ariosto and Tasso, at the present day; for these editions, generally rather imperfect, exhibit the labors of the authors, and the changes of style and composition, as well as the ameliorations of every kind, introduced by these two great poets in their works. It is by comparing these different editions that we learn how those great masters worked. In the same way, in the first successive editions published of those famous ‘ Lettres Provinciales’ of Pascal, which

<<<Page: 353>>>

A — B——-., Of Boston, Massachusetts.
2. 'fo require the deposit of one or more copies of the book within one month after the date of the claim, (if the book be published in any of the States east of the Mississippi cae and within three months if published west of the same. ‘The books to be transmitted by mail or otherwise, at the risk and cost of the claimant of the copyright.
The person depositing the book should be entitled to a certificate of deposit, on the payment of a small fee, which certificate should be made receivable in all courts of justice as prima facie evidence of compliance with the conditions of the law.
The omission to deposit within the time specified should not invalidate the copyright, but every proprietor of copyright should be allowed to
in the seynteenth century struck so severe a blow at the society of the Jesuits, are to be met with when examined with care, remarkable differences in language and style, which reveal to us in some measure the secret of the composition of that illustrious writer.
** Only to borrow one single fact of this kind from the scientific history of England, it will sufiice to recall to memory all the discussions which a slight alteration introduced in the lifetime of the author, in one of the editions of the admirable ‘Principia’ of Newton, has occasioned. Of many books published, more or less recently, the particulars are known, and the manager of a large library ought particularly to apply himself to procure those works, which, sooner or later, will be asked for and consulted with profit by men who desire to examine things thoroughly. This takes for. granted that a man entrusted with the direction of such an undertaking, possesses a very extensive and profound science ; it asaumes also that he has at his disposition sufficieat money to obtain, when the opportunity offers, all those books which are usually rare and expensive. He requires also sufficient room to place and arrange them in the best possible manner, in order that studious men may derive from them easily all desirable advantage. To a large library, to a metropolitan library, intended to supply all the intellectual requirements of a nation, certainly no limits can be assigned.
* * * * * * * * id *
‘Without stopping here to name the rare books, the yaluable editions, the typographical
monuments of all kinds that a large library ought necessarily to contain to be complete, I

<<<Page: 354>>>

deposit the copy, or copies, at any time afterward, and previous to the commencement of an action for infringement of copyright, by paying the value of the book and dollars. But if the book be Gemanded and refused, the copyright should be thereby forfeited.
It should be made obligatory that records be kept in the place of deposit ; that the books be stamped so as to be easily and with certainty identified ; and that they be restricted to the depository, unless required by a court of law.
The law would apply not only to books, but to maps and charts, music, engravings, &c., and should require that every copy so sent for security of copyright, should be perfect, and, if a book, well bound.
A monthly list of books thus deposited should be printed and distributed to booksellers and others. There are other details which would be neces-
sary to be considered in preparing such a law, but they are easily adjusted after establishing the principles upon which the enactment is to be founded.
A law with the provisions above stated, would be much more satisfactory to publishers, because it would require less of them, and subject them to much less expense, and, more than all, would effect what the present law does not—security of copyright.
The question next arises, ‘‘ Where shall the deposit of the book be made?”’ If but one copy be required, I beg leave to suggest that it could be most properly placed in the library of the Smithsonian Institution. The connexion of this establishment with the government is such as to render the deposit here peculiarly appropriate. We believe that it would be permanently more useful here, and better protected than in any other establishment. ‘The rooms in the State Department appropriated to the purpose are now crowded to excess, and are, besides, needed for other purposes. ‘The care of them occupies much of the time of a clerk, whose services can ill be spared. The clerks are continually changing, and hence it is impossible that any proper system for the care and usefulness of the books can be carried out. The business is entirely foreign to the department, and has, i am told, generally been considered as an incumbrance. It belongs more pr operly to a public library, and to one maintaiming just the relation to the general government which the Smithsonian Institution does. ‘This is the
shall ask your permission, sir, to Bilt out, that if there are few old books, and even few editions already published of the same work, which ought not to find a place in a large metropolitan library, there are still fewer which are published at the present day, or which will be published within a certain period. The history of the past is nearly known, or at least will be, sooner or later, as far as the monuments and documents of every kind which have survived to the present day will allow. It is not the same thing for the history of the future; there every thing is vague, every thing is unknown, and we are absolutely ignorant, if, in the most insignificant book, in a pamphlet, in a song sold in the street, in a placard intended to announce the most common events, is to be found a fact, a circumstance, a name, a date, which one hundred years hence may excite interest by its connection in any manner, and which it is now impossible to foresee, with some singular event, or with some man become celebrated. It would be, however, impossible to exact from the manager of a library, that with the view of preparing himself for all the circumstances of the future, he should apply the funds at his command for the purchase of all books which appear annually in his country ; besides, unless he devoted himself entirely to that, he could never know all the jarge and small books in published volumes, in livraisons (parts) or even in detached sheets, which might be published, not only inthe capital, but inthe mest distant and obscure places in the proyinces. It is this which, independently of any other consideration, renders the legal deposit so necessary; it is advisable, also, that whilst rendering it the least onerous possible to the publishers, by exacting only the numberof copies strictly necessary for the object.in view, all the measures which can render it really useful and of general application should be taken,’

<<<Page: 355>>>

37 [ 108 }
view taken of the matter in other countries. In England, the copy is required for the British Museum, (which sustains a relation to the British government similar to that which the Smithsonian Institution does to our own,) and not for the library of the House of Commons, or any library of the executive departments.
I am unable to,say whether or not the deposit is desired by the guardians of the library of Congress. There is no doubt, however, that two or even three copies would be ‘cheerfully & granted by all publishers i in this country, if they could be sure that the purposes of the deposit would be answered. The dissatisfaction which has hitherto been expressed has arisen entirely from the indefiniteness of the law, the difficulty of complying with it, and the doubt whether the deposit would be safely guarded, and rendered ayailable for the object for which it is made.
Statistics of Libraries.—During the year, the report which I had the honor to present in January, 1850, upon the public libraries of the United States, has been printed. I continued to add to it, up to the time of its going to press, such new information as I was able to collect upon the various libraries; and the report constitutes a valume of more than two hundred pages. It has been widely distributed throughout the country. During the last three or four months we have received statements from upwards of a hundred libraries, more full and accurate than those which had before been presented. I hope to be able within a year or two to prepare a full account of these institutions.
The stereotyped Catalogue.—in my last report f presented, at considerable length, a plan for the stereotyping of catalogues by separate, movable titles, with a statement of the advantages which it was supposed would result from the system. The plan was referred to a commission of librarians and literary gentiemen, for the purpose of obtaining their opinion as to its value and feasibility. ‘Their report was in all respects favorable, and I was authorized to proceed with the work. During the year I have bestowed much attention to the carrying out of the project.
Three methods of stereotyping had been devised, and it remained to be decided which of the three offered the greatest advantages. The first was by the electrotype process; the second by a modification of the common method of stereotyping; the third by a new process, patented by Mr. Josiah Warren, of Indiana. ‘The last seemed to offer peculiar facilities, and promised to be much more economical than either of the other methods; but its applicability to our purposes had not been sufficiently tested. With the assistance of the patentee, I instituted a series of experiments in order to satisfy ourselves upon this pomt. ‘The results were submitted to the judgment of a commission, who, after witnessing the process for manufacturing titles upon separate blocks, and carefully examining the work executed, _recommended the adoption of this process in preference to the others.
These experiments were of course made with imperfect instruments. It was necessary before commencing the work in earnest to devise the best form of apparatus to be used. This required another extended series of experiments. These were completed as early as the month of April, but it was impossible to obtain the apparatus, ready for use, until the month of October. Everything connected with typography requires a great deal of exactness. It is very difficult to find workmen suffic ena skiltul and careful to manufacture the machinery and apparatus. It was necessary also to instruct a workman in the manipulations of the art. Owing to delays from

<<<Page: 356>>>

[ 108 j 38
these causes, it was not until the month of December that our office was in working order.
I present to you herewith a sheet printed from these titles, with some of the blocks. It will be seen from these specimens that the work, although executed by hands not well skilled in such employment, will compare not unfavorably with that produced by other stereotyping offices. Practice will give greater perfection. We can see no reason to doubt the mechanical practicability of the plan; it is now thought to be fully established. We may therefore direct attention to plans for carrying it practically and speedily into effect.
The course which I would propose for this purpose is, first to proceed with the catalogue of our own library, preparing it in accordance with the rules recommended by the commission, and stereotyping it as rapidly as is consistent with the perfection of the work. The first part of so extensive an undertaking should be done with great care; it will furnish a model for all subsequent labors. We cannot, therefore, at first advance with the same rapidity as will be practicable at a later period. Cataloguers must be trained ;: workmen must acquire skill; apparatus must be perfected.
After our own catalogue is completed, or nearly so, we may commence upon the catalogue of any other library which may be offered to us. The commissioners upon the catalogue suggested the importance of having the library of Congress first catalogued upon this plan. Since their report was written, the larger part of this coilection has been lost by fire. Some considerable portion is, however, left, and undoubtedly measures will immediately be taken for replenishing the library. This would seem, then, to be a peculiarly appropriate time for presenting this matter formally to the proper authorities.. It is extremely desirable that the catalogue of the new library should be constructed on a different plan from that heretofore followed—a plan which, however popular it may have been when it was adopted, has long since been generaily abandoned. By entering into the ~ system which we propose, Congress can save large sums of money in the reprinting of the catalogue, and can, at the same time, promote a great national work.
Respectfully submitted, C. C. JEWETT, Librarian.

<<<Page: 357>>>

CHARGE OF THE MUSEUM, &c.

<<<Page: 358>>>

To Joseph Henry, Esq., LL.D., Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution :
Str: I herewith present to you the report of operations during the year 1851, in the departments severally assigned to my charge. These consist mainly of three: Ist, of publications; 2d, of distribution of volumes and exchanges ; and 3d, of natural history ; and I propose to take them up in the order here named.
During the year 1851 the second volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge was published, containing four hundred and sixty-four pages of text, twenty-four plates, and eighty-two wood cuts. The printing was commenced in 1850 and completed in 1851; only a few, however, of the thirteen papers embraced in the volume had left the press before the commencement of the year, while more than one half the matter was not put into the printer’s hands until after this period. The following list contains an enumeration of the individual memoirs of the volume, with the number of pages and illustrations to each. It will be remembered that each memoir is separately paged and indexed, and is thus distinct in itself, and that the volume is an aggregate of individual papers, with, however, a general introduction and title, as well as a general alphabetical index to all, in addition to the special index to each memoir. In order to facilitate the application of this general! index, the plan used for congressional documents has been adopted for the third volume—namely, to assign beforehand to | each paper its place in the series, and to have this number, in Roman letter, printed inside of the running head of each page.
List of Memotrsin Vol. IL. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
1. Researches relative to the planet Neptune. By Sears C. Walker, Esq.; pp. 65.
2, On the Vocal Sounds of Laura Bridgeman, the blind deaf Mute at Boston, compared with the Elements of Phonetic Language. By Dr. Francis Lieber; pp. 32 and one plate.
3.* Microscopical Examination of Soundings made by the United States Coast Survey, off the Atlantic coast of the United States. By Professor J. W. Bailey; pp. 16 and one plate.
4.* Contributions to the Physical Geography of the United States. By Charles Ellet, Jr.; pp. 64, one plate and two wood cuts.
5. Mosasaurus, and the three allied new Genera, Holcodus, Conosaurus, and Amphorosteus. By Robert W. Gibbes, M. D.; pp. 14 and three plates.
6. The Classification of Insects from embryological Data. By Professor L. Agassiz; pp. 28, one plate and eight wood cuts.
7. On the explosiveness of Nitre, with a view to elucidate its Agency in the explosion of July, 1845, in New York. By Dr. Robert Hare; pp. 20.
8.* Microscopical Observations made in South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. By Professor J. W. Bailey; pp. 48 and three plates.
9.* Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York, comprising the results of original surveys and explorations, with an illustrative appendix. By E.G. Squier; pp. 188, fourteen plates and seventy-two wood cuts.
= — — ——Ss = ——
*The asterisk added to the number indicates that the memoir was first issued in 1851. .

<<<Page: 359>>>

4i [ 108 J
10. Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the date of the Lalande Observations of May 8 and 10, 1795, and for the oppositions of 1847, 48 and *49. By Sears C. Walker, Esq. ; pp. 82.
11. Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1850. By Sears C. Walker, Esq. ; pp. 10.
12.* Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1851. By Sears C. Walker, Esq. ; pp10.
13.* Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1851. Computed by John Downes, Esq. ; pp. 26.
The usual edition of each memoir consists of fifteen hundred copies, of which one thousand are retained for binding into volumes, and the remaining five hundred are distributed separately. Of papers printed in 1850 only twelve hundred and fifty copies were published, but the demand has become so great as to render it expedient to increase the number to fifteen hundred. In a single instance (that of Mr. Ellet’s memoir) even five hundred extras were found inadequate, and an additional edition of one thousand was printed to meet the demand. ‘The average number of copies, however, of the memoirs of the second volume is about fifteen hundred.
Several memoirs of the third volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge have been finished, and others are in so great a state of forwardness as to render its issue early in the year 1852 more than probable. The papers already completed, and partly distributed in a separate form, are:
1. Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for 1852. By Sears C. Walker, Esq.; pp. 10.
2. Occultations visible in the United States and other parts of the World in 1852. Computed by John Downes; pp. 34.
8. Monograph of the Fresh Water Cottoids of North America. By Charles Girard ; pp. 80 and three plates.
The work of Professor Harvey, entitled Nereis Boreali Americana, or History of the Marine Alge of North America, part i., Melanospermee, consisting of one hundred and fifty-two pages and twelve colored plates, is also completed, and only waiting for cases from the binder to be published.
The quarto memoirs for this third volume, now in press, are the following:
. Description of Ancient Works in Ohio. By Charles Whittlesey. . Researches in Electrical Rheometry. By Professor A. Secchi. . Plante Wrightiane. By Dr. Asa Gray.}
. Plante Fremontiane. By Dr. John Torrey.
aorer
These will, it is hoped, all be completed in a short time. The six plates of corals to accompany Professor Agassiz’s paper for the volume are also now ready.
The fourth volume of the fourth series is also in press, and will probably be issued simultaneously with the third, in the coming spring. It will consist entirely ofa grammar and dietionary of the Dakota language, prepared by Rey. S. R. Riggs, and will occupy about four hundred pages.
Several plates for vol. 5 of Smithsonian Contributions are also finished.
Besides these works in quarto, several reports in octayohave been printed. The first is the report on public libraries, by Professor C. C. Jewett. This was printed by order of Congress, as an appendix ‘0 the annual report of the Smithsonian Institution, It contains two + «dred and eight pages. The second report is by Messrs. Booth and Mor| n recent improvements
* The asterisk added to the number indicates the’ “pe first issued in 185],

<<<Page: 360>>>

[ 108 42
in the chemical arts.”” This embraces two hundred and twelve pages, and has been stereotyped.
The fifth annual report of the Smithsonian Institution (for 1850) did not appear until December, 1851. This consists of three hundred and twenty-five pages with, and one hundred and forty-four pages without the hst of copyright books received by the Institution up to 1851.
The report of Dr. F. E. Melsheimer, on the Coleoptera of the United States, is in press and will appear some time in the course of 1852.
The collection of Barometrical, Thermometrical, Hypsometrical and other tables, by Professor Guyot, has been stereotyped, with the exception of a few pages, and will be ready in a few weeks. It will embrace about two hundred pages.
A small pamphlet of directions for making collections of Natural History has been printed and is nearly ready. ‘This will serve as a substitute for the larger work on the same subject which is now ready for the press. A circular sheet of similar character has also been published and extensively distributed, as also a sheet of directions and lists for the observation and registry of periodical phenomena of animal and vegetable life.
During the past year the second volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge issued from the press, after having been subjected to many unforeseen delays. ‘The first copies received from the binder were sent to such domestic institutions as were on the list. Their distribution was effected very rapidly by forwarding those for each district to some central bookseller, and mailing letters of advice to each institution or library to be supplied, informing it of the fact. The distribution was accomplished with such promptness in this way, that in the course of a month or six weeks all the copies, with few exceptions, reached their destination. Acknowledgments have already been received for nearly all. The gentlemen to whom the Institution is mainly indebted for this service, performed ee maronaly in all cases, are Messrs. J. P. Jewett & Co., Boston; Geo. P.
utnam, esq., New York; Lippincott, Grambo & Co., Philadelphia; John Russel, esq., Charleston; and H. W. Derby & Co., Cincinnati.
Nearly all the packages sent out, included copies of the History of the Indian tribes, by Messrs. Schoolcraft and Eastman, and presented by the Honorable Luke Lea, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, to such institutions, selected from the list of the Smithsonian Institution, as were judged entitled to them. A special acknowledgment direct to the Indian Bureau was requested.
The parcels for a few institutions in the South and West are still on hand, no favorable mode of transmission having yet presented itself. Most of these, however, will be taken charge of by members of Congress, and by them conveyed to their destination.
It was not until the beginning of July that copies enough were received to supply the foreigrt ists. By the 21st, however, all the parcels were in readiness, catalogued and boxed up for sending, and invoices of the contents
of each prepared for tra! > mail direct. The lists used in the distribution of the first rably enlarged, and subjected to various corrections, will 3 dix.

<<<Page: 361>>>

Many of the scientific bodies of this country embraced the opportunity offered to them of sending their memoirs to European societies. The difhculties of scientific intercourse between the Institutions of Europe and America have in many instances been very great, resulting either in great delay in exchanging publications, orinan utter failure of the latter to reach their destination. The system adopted by the Smithsonian Institution is liable to no such objections, and the offer of its benefits to other institutions was gladly accepted. ‘The principal bodies accepting the invitation were the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston; the Boston Natural History Society; the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences ; the United States Coast Survey; the Washington Obvervatory, and others. The Commissioner of Indian Affairs, at the instance of the authors and of the Smithsonian Institution, took the same occasion to send copies of the History of the Indian tribes to about one hundred and fifty institutions in Europe, taken from the Smithsonian list. Numerous documents of scientific interest published by Congress were procured through the Senate document room, from members of Congress who relinquished their claim to extra copies, and in other ways. The Senate also assigned to the Institution three hundred copies of Foster and Whitney’s report on the Copper lands of Lake Superior for foreign distribution. It is to be hoped that this act of liberality to scientific institutions abroad may be repeated in the case of all public documents of general interest.
The entire number of different addresses borne by the packages, five hundred in number, amounted to two hundred and ninety-ore, of which two hundred and one were of institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. The packages for France, Italy, Spain and Portugal, were sent for distribution to Hector Bossange, of Paris, and amounted to eighty-five. The remainder of continental Europe, except Greece and Turkey, was supplied with three hundred and thirteen packages, through Dr. John G. Fliigel, United States consul, Leipsic; England, Scotland and Treland, eighty-four packages, through Henry Stevens, London. Hon. George P. Marsh, minister resident at Constantinople, took charge of the copies for Greece, Turkey and Northern Africa. The parcels for the rest of Africa and for Asia were forwarded through the American Board of Foreign Missions, Boston, the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions, New York, and the American Colonization Society, Washington.
he whole mass occupied forty boxes of about six cubic feet capacity each, besides several separate bundles, and weighed 7920 pounds. These were distributed as follows :
To whom sent. | rastitutions. No. of No. of | Cubic ca-| Weight. parcels. | boxes. pacity. |
DVM GElieratsarcyee se letee ol.ee.3 81 313 20 120 3, 960 Ep OSSAN LO leicre s:sje1a,cfeieieie 6 a:a, <6 55 85 10 52% 1,738 MET SIS LOVENG oid s:cie:cieis) oe tee: cies 47 84 8 42 1, 336 TOYS ietejete Gi eww aici 6 oers creystetereless 18 18 +, -| 2 252 836
RODE 5 i72/ele whe stavete ern 'h'e'e 201 500 40 240 7,920

<<<Page: 362>>>

f 108 | 44
The numbers of institutions refer only te those to which the Smithsonian publications were sent. The remaining ninety have not been classified for the present. .
In addition to the parcels themselves, circulars (two hundred and ninetyone in number) were prepared for each address, and forwarded by mail. These contained a full statement of the purposes and wishes of the Institution. In each was a full invoice of everything sent, whether by the Institution or by others, with information of the circumstances connected with the transmission of the parcels. Although inuch of the matter of the circulars was printed, still the labor of making out the invoices was very great, involving, as it did in some instances, the writing of fifty, or even more, titles of books in a single letter.
As the import duty on books is much greater in England than on the Continent, application was made by yourself to the British government, through Sir Henry Bulwer, the British minister in Washington, for a remission of duty on packages directed to such Institutions in England as were embraced in the list of distribution which was enclosed to him. The ready assent to the request, and order of free admission was of essential service, as permiting the addition of much more matter to these packages than would have been possible kad the duty of twelve shillings and six pence sterling per hundred weight been exacted. ‘The parcels sent abroad have all reached their respective agents of distribution, and the great majority already arrived at their final places of destination. Every foreign mail brings letters of acknowledgement from institutions abroad for the donation, with expressions of admiration for what they are pleased to term the unexampled liberality and magnificence of the enterprise. In this connexion it may be proper to add that'this Institution, as far as possible, transmits its packages, with their accompanying letters, free of any cost to the recipient.
The receipts of volumes from foreign institutions, in exchange for Smith_ sonian publications, have continued to be of great value. ‘The report of last year mentioned the following as the entire amount up to January 1, 1852:
Folio and quarto volumes-------------------182 Octavo 66 eee ee ee eee ee amen ans 188 ele ey 7) Parts of volumes and tracts----------Ee eee 608 878 From January, 1851, to January, 1852: Folio and quarto volumes----------~+--------96 OS ih aU Ree So er eerie ry eee re eee 172 | = Gy. Parts of volumes and tracts-\-.i-o~<c5 ob acne 342 609
It may be well to mention that this does not include any returns made for the volumes sent last summer, none having yet arrived on the 31st of December, 1851. Nearly all those institutions which are mentioned in the last report as having failed to make returns or agknowledgments, have since
done both.

<<<Page: 363>>>

45 f 108 J
An almost unique feature in the exchanges of the Institution consists in the number of academical publications re eceived from almost all the universities of Europe. The series from many are very full, particularly for later years; and very few are to be foundinany other American library. These works are generally of great value to the student.
In conclusion, I would remark that the Institution is creatly indebted to the gentlemen acting as agents in Hurope for the efficiency of its system of foreign exchange. Its thanks are especii ally due to Dr. Fliigel for his close and untiring attention in promoting the interests, not only of this Institution, but of American science and literature in general,
This report E propose to present under the following subdivisions ;
In obedience to your suggestion, L have added to the details of operations in the line of Natural History of the Smithsonian Institution, such facts in regard to those of government, societies, and individuals in North America, as I deem to be of most rene It must not, however, be considered as a complete exposition of the subject; still, imperfect as the sketch may be, it will, I hope, be acceptable to those w ho may not have at their command the information in possession of the Smithsonian Institution. In the March number of Silliman’s Journal will be found a list of all works and articles relating to the natural history of North America, published during 1851, which will relieve the necessity of here going into the same detail.
Additions.—The additions to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1851, have been varied and valuable. They include numerous species which are entirely new to science, thus affording copious material for original investigation; while in those already described are the means of important comparisons. It is not in the more showy departments of Natural History that this growth is marked, but in the less conspicuous Classes, orders and families, which from their comparative obscurity, have experienced unmerited neglect. It is well understood that the Smithsonian Institution does not enter upon ground already occupied, but endeavors to remedy the omissions of others. Hence it is that the collections of this Institution are not very attractive to the general visitor, in the absence of cases of mounted birds, mammalia, sheHs, &e., but the student of Natural History will find much that will be sought in vain elsewhere.
The circulars issued early i in last spring, mentioning especial desiderata of the Institution, and giving brief hints for the preservation of specimens, have proved highly effectual in procuring many important contributions. A small pamphlet is now in press, shortly to be published, which will express more in detail the matter of the circular above referred to. The

<<<Page: 364>>>

f 108 J 46
more elaborate report on making collections and observations in natural history and geology is also ready for the press, and only waits the completion of some wood cuts.
In an appendix will be found the list of additions to the collection of the Institution, with the names of the donors, arranged alphabetically. The entire number of parcels received amounts to sixty-three, while that of individual specimens is very great. 1 propose in a few words to mention the points of especial mterest in these collections, classifying the more prominent specimens according to the usual system.
Mammals.—Of North American species, the most conspicuous are two specimens of the big horn or Rocky Mountain sheep, Ovis montana, the one presented by Captain S. Van Vliet, the other by the Hon. J. Butterfield, commissioner of the General Land Office. The first one has been sent to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, to supply a desideratum there ; and the two, with one brought in by Captain Stansbury and deposited in the national gallery, are the only specimens in public collections in the country. Various horns and skulls of American reindeer or caraboo, black tail deer, antelope, ell, &c., have been received, as also skulls of wolves, foxes, bears, &c. Some very valuable European mammalia have also been received from Mr. Steenberg, of Elsinore, including skins of wolves, seals, arctic foxes, &c., and several skulls of the reindeer of Greenland. A magnificent collection of Scandinavian mammalia, sent Jast year by the Swedish Academy, at.Stockholm, had not arrived at the end of the year, though daily expected. Numerous specimens of Ameriean rats, spermophiles, &c., have been received.
Birds.—A few birds only have been added to the American series, these consisting mainly, of specimens procured in the Washington market, and prepared at the Institution. A beautiful series, however, of the nests and eggs of European species, with many skins, has been forwarded by Mr. Sturm. .
Reptiles and fishes ——It is among these classes that the additions have been most numerous. The collections are principally from the great lakes, the Alleghany river, the southern coast, as well as from California, Oregon and New Mexico. It will be useless to mention any specially interesting objects, where so many exist. The classified lists in the appendix, however, will give a general idea of the extent and variety of this portion of the cabinet. q
Invertebrates. —The donations of Mr. Pourtales and of Mr. Marsh, with’ the collections made by Mr. Girard, at Charleston, constitute the principal additions in the department of invertebrate zoology. Here, as among the vertebrata, are several rare and new species.
Plants.—An extensive series of the plants of Hungary, embracing many hundred species, was presented by Mr. Arthur Schott. This gentleman subsequently added a number of American species, like the former, gathered by hinself.
Fossil remains.—A number of specimens of the fossil vertebrata from the Mauvaises Terres were presented by Captain Stewart Van Vliet. Dr. H. A. Prout, of St. Louis, has also enriched the collection. Remains of a mastodon, from Gloucester county, Virginia, have been received from Rev. Charles Mann and Captain Marchant. Some interesting specimens of fossil woods were presented by Major O. Cross.

<<<Page: 365>>>

47 48
No. of Total.
jars. \ Mammalia. POU VATIOUS TE RIONA es eerie ule'cs es sa sitlolcomimmamiiels one 36 —-—_—— 36 Reptiles. EAE O I SPA AEH Nseetelos oi: a ean wee Pe Tee @ vse: donia's at recaeee Ree eels ie see 100 Bonaparte collection (European) onic are yereieistetes tite ty Mite Nie leleere 57 Other European specimens..............c0ceeces ee 3 North American.,....... HES TAHS BRT lbi eh cislnis ove eels A a ary 832 La 554 Mishes. Mr omajhamm aio aes. cel. siyeiaieabitae scot ei eins o's tlslelws AH ac wae aot 54 Constantinople and Egypt...... REE Rib ae\o.0 s,s 01s Meio eealee eee Sets 31 MQOMNAD YI i iac eis ss cae S oisie Deeiiclelersin.e.6 cae sie Sits ane Sage 31 Bonaparte collection (Europe).. WR ACeEY, Sede SOR ee 216 Month American s.r. eke Cnr scene. Fae Vices. «kee ee a ee , 750 —— 1,082 Articulata. Cristie parr oe ere bites holds PRED sci Bek igs pda eines Saha sly crake 61 Apterous.insects;and larve ....00-.-00200s se aysperetalulclereieleietsniwe eae 4G 20 Insects to be pinned hereafter............ 0.000% eee Ree AE oh ‘ 13. | Entozoa and Annelids.............. aN Best snk Seen sy, 15 | ee 114 Mollusca. | PMS CONE NEO See cinictete' et iste vie oa Tate te case e cad nie oie pRicn aa Ore e 20 a 20 Radiata. { “rl ETON AUS Pe kt i iu AIP sie see ae ine ic 1 ECL \GI TENT psc an en en OMG eR LA peg OEY 4 Miia ceNatic ONS MG ale. hts ee SURE deo gale haem ue By 11 oe 16 Hi Mi scella 2COUSs PIEIOEVOG "israeli lea are fafa sien ple tete ASEM close vale Genie Ode OR iets sa OE 35 PSEA AAICEICLONS ue is\ccsieia cialis ca eiemicisd ole bie io ero 0 lone ee ei eee 30 ie ————d 5
The entire number of jars, therefore, varying in size from two gallons to one ounce, and now ac tually filled, exceeds 1850. But many of these contain more than one species, so that when all now on hand are properly assorted the number will amount nearly to 2,500. There are besides nearly twenty kegs and large vessels filled with duplicate specimens, for exchange, or with species too large for jars, together with several not yet assorted.
Besides the above there are about one hundred and sixty jars filled with new species of American fishes and reptiles, which are here temporarily for description.
Of the other collections,  2. EXPLORATIONS.
Explorations under patronage of the Smithsonian Institution.—The first of these is that of Proiessor C. B. Adams, of Amherst. This gentleman returned in the spring, from an excursion to Jamaica, and other places of the West Indies, and to Panama. He made very extensive collections m many departments of natural history, especially in conchology, herpetology and ichthyology. A very interesting collection in the two last mentioned alivisions has been received from him, in return for an appropriation of fifty dollars towards defraying us expenses. The series contains many highiy interesting species, some of them new to science
Mr. Charles Girard, in May ee visited Charleston, and made various zoological collections of much interest, aided by facilities furnished by Dr. J. E. Holbroek, Dr. St. Julian Ravenel , and others. This collection, although not as extensive as might have'been made at a more favorable season of the year, is still very important, not only on account of the known vertebrata and invertebrata, but also for embracing some undescribed species of fishes.
During a visit to Cmeinnati in May, [ embraced the opportunity to make
a collection of the fishes of the Ohio river. In this I was fortunate to have ic assistance of Dr. J. P. WKirtiand, the eminent author of the “ fishes of the Ohio river and its tributaries,’ who had there procured most of his species. Nearly all he had ever found in this locality, with few exceptions, were again obtained and identified by him. In August, again, I explored the tributaries of the Hudson below Albany, and subsequently Otsego lake, in each case richly rewarded by the result, and especially by learning of the existence in the latter lake of a Lota, the usual hydrographical associate of the Coregonus, or white fish.
To the Smithsonian Institution :
In the report presente’ to you by Dr. Joseph Leidy, upon the fossil remains submitted to him for examination, you will find a short statement of the character of these fossil vertebrata. ‘The scientific interest attaching to these specimens is very great, as showing for the first time the existence in this country of an extensive eocene deposit, rivalling in the variety of its species of extinct animals the celebrated ‘beds of the Paris basin. The discovery of an entirely new family of mammalia, embracing eight new genera, is one result of the examinations by Dr. Leidy. It will ‘be remembered that these specimens were collected by Thaddeus Culbertson, Esq., in the summer of 1850. Since then an additional collection has been presented by Captain Stewart Van Vliet of the army, and several specimens kindly loaned by Dr. H. A. Prout, of St. Louis, all from the same locality. Some of the same genera and species, with a’ few not hitherto received by the Smithsonian Institution, were collected by Dr. Evans under the direction of Dr. David D. Owen, and will soon be published by the latter gentleman in his account of the geology of the northwest.
It is much to be desired that government may fit out an expedition for the complete exploration of this region, so interesting to the geologist and naturalist. Without some such aid it will be impossible to hope for a full development of these treasures for years to come, Besides the vertebrate

<<<Page: 366>>>

[ 108 j 50
deposits on White river, there are others known in various parts of the basin of the upper Missouri, some belonging to the eocene and others to the cretaceous formations.
The species of cottoids belonging to the collection of the Smithsonian Institution have been worked up by Mr. Charles Girard in his memoir recently published in the third volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. With but few exceptions, specimens of all the species described are now in the collection, several being entirely unique.
An account of the collection of plants made by Charles Wright in Texas and New Mexico is now in course of publication by the Institution, in a paper written by Dr. Asa Gray, entitled “Plante Wrightiane.” Dr. Torrey has also a paper on the new plants collected in California, by Col. J. C. Fremont. This, with the preceding, will appear in the third volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
To government.—The letter-press of the conchology of the United States Exploring Expedition, by Dr. A. A. Gould, has been printed during the past year under direction of Captain Wilkes and the Joint Library committee of Congress, although not yet issued. The atlas of plates is in an advanced state of forwardness. ‘The volume on Meteorology, by Captain Wilkes, has also been published. The series of published results of the Expedition is as follows:
Narrative of the Expedition. By Captain Wilkes. 5 vols. 4to, and folio atlas. . Zoophytes. By Professor J. D. Dana. 1 vol. 4to, and atlas.
Philology. By Mr. Hale, 1 vol. 4to.
Racesof Man. By Dr. C. Pickering. 1 vol. 4to.
Mammals and Birds. By Titian R. Peale. 1 vol. 4to.
. Geology and Mineralogy. By Professor J.D. Dana. 1 vol. 4to, and atlas.
Meteorology. By Captain Wilkes. 1 vol. 4to.
. Charts. 1 vol. folio.
ONARMHMAhLENHE
Making eleven volumes quarto, and four folio volumes of plates. Those still to appear are:
1. Conchology. By Dr. A. A. Gould. 2. Herpetology. By S. F. Baird and C. Girard. 8. Ichthyology. By Prof. L. Agassiz. 4. Crustacea. By Prof. J. D. Dana. 6. Medusz. By Prof. J. D. Dana. 6. Echinoderms. By Prof. L. Agassiz. 7. Annelids. 8. Insects. 9. Ferns. By Mr. Breckenridge. 10. Fungi. By Messrs. Berkeley and Curtis. 11. Alge. By Prof. J. W. Bailey. 12. Botany (Phanerogams.) By Drs. Torrey and Gray. 13. Mosses. By Mr. Sullivant. 14. Geographical Distribution of Species. By Dr. Charles Pickering. 15. Hydrography, Magnetism, Astronomy and Physics. Jy Capt. Wilkes. 16. Charts, vol. 2.
Several of the above titles may, however, be united into one volume. Naturalists, generally, who have been watching the progress of this great national work, will learn with deep regret that ll the undistributed copies

<<<Page: 367>>>

51 52
The Smithsonian Institution may do great service to the cause of science, by Jens as the medium through which applications for exchange or purchase of specimens of natural history between American and European collections may be interchanged. This does not necessarily inyolve an active part in regard to the specimens themselves, although in some instances such agency inay be undertaken. There are many individuals in this country who have it in their power to procure duplicates of objects of natural history in their immediate vicinity, which they would gladly exchange for those from other localities, at home or abroad. By encouraging such to make known their desiderata and duplicates, and registering these systematically, information might be inmediately returned as to the best mode of procuring the one and disposing of the other, as well as of sending and receiving the parcels involved. In fact, numerous applications of the kind have been already received from individuals both in Eur ope and America, and an exchange satisfactory to both parties instituted. Lists of persons making such applications might be published in the annual reports, and thus brought within the cognizance of all.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
AN ACCOUNT OF NATURAL HISTORY EXPLORATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES, purine L851.
By Prof. Spencer F. Bairp.
Explorations under direction of the Topographical Bureau.—Natural science in America, almost equally with geographical, is under the greatest obligations to the Topographical Bureau, now under direction of Col. J.J. Abert, for additions to her domam. I need only mention in former years, the travels of Long, Nicollet, Emory, Fremont, Abert, Simpson, &c. The expeditions returned or commenced in 1851, will, when their results are published to the world, bear ample witness of even an increasing zeal of the officers of this bureau for the furtherance of natural science.
The first to be noticed is the expedition of Captain Howard Stansbury to the unknown region of the Great Salt lake. This talented officer, assisted by Lieutenant Gunnison, of the same corps, and Albert Carrington, esq., Salt Lake city, after having spent many months in their explorations, returned last winter with a rich stock of material. Highly interesting collections of animals and plants, many of them quite new were obtained, and much light thrown upon the subject of geographical distribution. Collections of fossils and rocks were also made, sutficient to cast a ray of light upon the geology of this remote region. The entire results of the expeditionwill be published during the present session of Congress, and will be accompanied by numerous plates of new animals, plants and fossil remains, as well as by maps and sketches of scenery.* The report on the geology

<<<Page: 368>>>

53 [ 108 |
and paleontology will be presented by Professor Hall; on the plants by Dr. Torrey ; on the invertebrata by Professor S. 8S. Haldeman, and on the vertebrates by Mr. Girard and myself.
The survey of the Canadian fork of the Arkansas, under Lieutenant Woodruff and Captain Sitgreaves, was completed in the autumn of 1850, the party returning to Washington in the winter. Dr. Woodhouse, the surgeon of the expedition, and a naturalist of great ability, made many interesting collections; among them a new species of wolf, since characterized under the name of Canis frustror. Shortly after their return, Captain Sitgreaves and Dr. Woodhouse were again sent into the field to explore the Zuni river in California. This region, entirely unknown to naturalists, will no doubt afford to Dr. Woodhouse a rich harvest.
Department of the Intertor.—The most important scientific exploration under the care of this department is connected with the survey of the boundary between the United States and Mexico. The western part of the survey across the peninsula of California was conducted by Major Emory, of the corps of topographical engineers. Officially connected with him, as surgeon and naturalist, was Dr. Parry, who made very extensive collections of plants, now in the hands of Dr. Torrey, and including many new species. Informally attached to Major Emory’s party, for a considerable length of time, was Dr. John le Conte, the distinguished entomologist, who spent eighteen months in California, and made extensive zoological collections. The collections of Dr. Le Conte consist mainly of Coleopterous insects, of which at least one thousand species are new to science. All the other departments of zoology were, however, attended to, especially of herpetology, of which he procured the largest collection ever made on the Pacific coast. These are now in my hands for description.
The eastern part of the line of the Mexican boundary survey has also been zealously explored. The naturalists accompanying Col. J. D. Graham, chief of the scientific corps, Mr. J. H. Clark and Charles Wright, in their journey from Indianola to El Paso, and thence to the copper mines of the Gila, made very extensive collections, the former in zoology, the latter in botany, affording an excellent idea of the natural history of this region over a line of a thousand miles, and greatly exceeding in amount any ever made there before. The naturalists immediately connected with the parity of Mr. Bartlett, the commissioner, (Messrs. Thurber and Bigelow, and others,) have also been active, especially in the field of botany and mineralogy, although but little beyond a small collection of plants has been sent in. Major Emory, on being assigned to this survey last summer, took with him Dr. Parry and Mr. Schott, both of whom will, no doubt, manifest afresh their zeal for natural history.
Land Office—The explorations under the direction of the land office have mainly been in the departments of zoology and paleontology, although the others have not been neglected. Dr. D. D. Owen has completed the geological survey of Minnesota, Lowa and Wisconsin, and his report is now ready to be published. It includes many new and interesting fossils; among them several vertebrata from the Mauvaises Terres, and will constitute the most elaborate government report of the kind ever presented,
Messrs. Foster and Whitney have also completed their geological survey of Northern Michigan, and have the final results now in press. In working up the paleontology, they have had the able assistance of Professor James Hall. The plates and cuts to the report are all finished, and

<<<Page: 369>>>

nearly all the text has been set up, so that the whole will appear at no distant period.
Dr. Evans, formerly associated with Dr. Owen, has also been sent out by the land office on a geological examination of Oregon. During his passage out, he obtained and sent to the Land Office a magnificent specimen of the big horn, or Rocky Mountain sheep, (Ovis montana,) which has been kindly presented to the Smithsonian Institution by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, Hon. J. Butterfield.
State Explorations.—The legislature of Pennsylvania, at its last session, appropriated forty thousand dollars for the completion of the geological survey of the State, commenced many years ago, but allowed to remain for a long ¢ime without any further appropriation. The sum above mentioned includes the cost of publishing the results in two quarto volumes, with a large map. Among the points of especial interest in this report will be a monograph of the coal plants of the United States, by Mr. Leo Lesquereaux.
North Carolina, almost the first in the field of geological exploration, has again authorized a general geological and natural history survey of the State, by Dr. E. Emmons, of Albany, well known for his services in a similar survey of the State of New York.
The State of Mississippi has also authorized a survey under direction of Colonel B. L. C. Wailes, of Washington, Mississippi, and Professor Millington, of Oxford, Mississippi. The appropriation for the survey consists of six thousand dollars per annum, one half devoted to the actual survey, the other towards maintaining the professorship of geology in the State university, of which Professor Millington is incumbent.
Ihnois, too, has followed the example of her sister States, and commenced a survey under Dr. Norwood.
The survey of Alabama under Professor Tuomey is still in progress, as is also that of Canada under Mr. Logan.
The following is a list of the States, as nearly as can be ascertained, which have commenced geological surveys, with the names of the persons engaged. Most of these have been commenced long since, and appropriations for their final completion not granted. Several States have, however, shown their willingness to resume the surveys. Only a few final reports have, however, been published. ‘The States of Missouri and Florida, it is believed, are the only ones which have not yet authorized surveys.

<<<Page: 370>>>

55 [ 108. |
States. | Names.
New Brunswick.....0..seceeess Mr, GeOsnerincccesctiocss. ae GOGS S's 'asctavenas haeieseyecsielatets, atete INGVEs S COLA circle) ss vis b o-ecis vice eg Dr. C. T. Jackson and Francis Alger..... aia’ ocu\e(Sratelevctaye WBMES: Sa ivcteleles'e’s beiec ede ee wef MTs LOO aml Se crtetce a s-crsie ce oid crave e ¥isletave eee) slerereteney sts ae AR Cereals ite isisG s.s.cie's ofsie.s6: 513 ¢ Dire. JACK SOM erase ereteiass.<\0. aie /ele archers viciclatetale'e clever eres HUROO GL ESIBNG 2 10s 0s 0.0 ava,0,0,00e0,0'0. Dre, JACHSOmerwisisieye fore vie icles afateiarate care arate oles olelorat kere New Hampshire....... saleieist aerate Des SACK SOMpepererel cf etey ots: s\iaie:0 0100 e ehetete«'a\c: thereat weretels DVOEMONE: 085.5 550i e's secslssisess EAT OL. Oat Bere NCLoIN Sets: 00:0: Fc, «i cto! sfousteters.si eye chctese steleneeheteiete MASSAChUSetts. oo 0 0'scccis vases ve Pregs EMtChcoeks., iistecis’s(2:sse +s, schaarelsis « sholataysicietetsiniee : ING WRNSOU rie of siercjeic arcies oisiele * .»| Profs. Hall, Emmons, Mather, Vanuxem, Beck and Dr.
ID) eh Katy Fatetere, stocarcto vos) s,0%d 01s alo-ciepereton wtais sieterche dorsi acts ° INIGW. WOTSOYs « o Siave.c's 6. cieraysoce ous IPLOf. Ele Dy eBIVORETS tie ieleic:s ¢ ayetccsyetsteleteiers « sisiejenis arefeiere ate HFOMNSY LV ANIA te, cis cies cle sisi sees 6 er Ofer Ehsy DPEUO DCTS. 5. -50:s,0) ois 0: cvera ere avereteres sce: <tc el eetareteterete NV QEAWAT Gis Biers wore cieictoie'e: eet Says save Er Ofc si CSMB OO GN, « clerereieis'e ote, cis's, clobetes share o's a areal teenies WIT VGL ATIC ate forse: cai cielo eie.civ's.eie'e) ss Dre Ducateliricas o:a.0019 oe. « Sate ae SEA GHABOONR Gr ocuc os ME RRIGT ecte co cisrsca s/w ns's scl weiss BLOF Wil pisee LUO CLSs,...:c0s.c s:aiel siotaisreleieteiere «ao ehierttoheiete ; INGIUN Caroling 655006 sccws ee cee Profs. D. Olmsted and E. Emmons...........ccccecee South Carolina.............0008 Brot. Tuomeyines «-< diaw.diarsl crake. oars aferaie sivicte (erelecesiemtetens PUL APHID se ole clele ticle. aisieiviee-e's <sie-e PMOL + IU OMGY seereiets, sis) eis scueiers/elelatercietetetaeicin.s ae aie aiefe U0 2a a a Frots. Olmstediand Coming 14sec scene acdc oul a at . Florida SSethoomodor stepeterstare |e sia) el stece/ stale: ozctotpenetats oes Shave c aicteselle lefeveleycteleteictel cts element tate [DCT CS 0) | Col. B. L. C. Wailes and Prof. Millington..........2+ MCNINESSEOL. 600 «/si0.0c306's, shale Syararore | LITER LOOSE cvalersvshevere'tynyo-<i oud ele wale cree ore wtarenciarete avebeisiol Louisiana .:<<c6 cc es ves areas BLOfscH OLSHEY «i estas oie, si a.el enscsrelsiciel crataiel ereises afelajeohd cles sie PG OUUUGH Vict ates. crag hice sie'siakis-o'a ors Prof. Mather (reconnaissance only)......+, silos etevepaiciale (0) sito) See Giaisiolejerieietere:< eeeiee ee LOts WAtNCT Mr nitecte ec sle srarete sielcier caterer cis shee ievere cielershersiars ERGIANS 3 5:0 ais wie 'si0.0 5,0 Sopemne ~se| Dr. D. D. Owen (reconnaissance)... accesccocscedsiveaie Missouri...... shafelerefenersiela: si ctcicla ce liolaleiovel siherelsrs) wissc.ete's ce 6 sieeveyels ai atalelatetefencts eeticieie let sisie'alale MEICIIP ANN fe fel aie'sivi6: oalsieie viaie ....| Drs. Houghton and Jackson; Messrs. Fosterand Whitney. HIBMOISINE S315 oe.0 sisceie ese srererers eels Drs NOrwOOdi... ci sisie.siencis we16 cle ws stelete ators ofate a eiseta ofepete SWVAIRGOMSIN cro. o cr tice ¢ sieieic.e's o'ieiere’s Drs Ds D. Owens, see ais vrsic e054 eiereleeie ah afel ei ousestete OOo MATOS OCHai ci <,c'sis/e1y 6's ores a: 0'« Sia sete) a Tier LD dd sg ONVOLee eererstetctele Sidi slol ef efelel ol oieysielorelaiaieianetete ac ROWS ccsccss sid stelaieietete Sroferocsteraiere Day DD) sul)? OWNS atateiere, arcisiaie sions sie so ainreiee asi elaielelelslsierate ° BURA teieieieisrerefsisiers! siaiaie.)s sieicceidais Dr. Es Roemeraccwas selec « « areeaiete aotelesels slatiere crsievetaterernis
Explorations by individuals.—At the request of the superintendent of the coast survey, Professor Agassiz last winter visited the reefs of Florida, for the purpose of making such examinations of the coral formations as might furnish information of use to the survey. In this. he was highly successful, as well as in the secondary object of making collections of natural history. Many new species of animals were added to the American fauna, especially of invertebrata, as annelida, &c. Numerous fishes were also obtained, including several undescribed, and in a species of Sperodactylus the presence of the reptilian family of geckotyd# was for the first time determined in the United States. The geological results will be published as an appendix to the report of the superintendent of the coast survey for 1861.
Mr. L. F. Pourtales, while engaged on coast survey duty in Florida, paid especial attention to the radiata, and procured many species, some of which he has kindly presented to the Institution. Among them are Holothuria, Synapta, &c.
Mr. W. Stimpson, of Boston, last summer visited the coast of Maine, and made important collections in zoology. Many new species of mollusca, radiata and annelida were obtained, and the existence of Myzine substantiated for the first time in North America, by the acquisition of sey

<<<Page: 371>>>

[ 108 56
eral species of this remarkable genus of fishes. Mr. Stimpson has since published some of his results in a special work. This gentleman is now with Professor Agassiz in Charleston, actively engaged in developing the natural history of the southern coast.
Lieutenant J. D. Kurtz, of the engineer corps, has also been active in procuring specimens of the recent and fossil shells of the coast of South Carolina. ‘To him the institution is indebted for a fine collection, embracing most of the recent species, one hundred and ninety-four in number.
Dr. T. M. Brewer and Horace Storer, esq., of Boston, spent some weeks in New Brunswick last spring, engaged in collecting the birds with their eggs, as well as other animals of that region. The geographical distribution and habits of many of the former were finally settled by these gentlemen.
Colonel McCall, inspector general United States army, while on duty in New Mexico and ‘Texas, made important additions to our knowledge of North American birds. He has since published a valuable report on the subject, in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Captain McCown also procured many species of birds additional to our fauna, which have been described by Mr. Lawrence.
Mr. J. A. Lapham, of Milwaukee, Dr. De Haas, of Wheeling, and Wm. Pidgeon, of Iowa, have all been successfully engaged in exploring the mounds of the west.
I do not, of course, pretend here to give a complete record of all explorations, either by individuals or governments. Many others, no doubt, have been made, which have not come to the knowledge of the Institution. Still, if future reports of this kind be desired, pains will be taken to render them much fuller and more accurate than the present.
Lund—University Library.
Stockiolm—Kongliga Sy enska Vetenskaps Akademien. Vitierhets Historie och Antiquitets Akademien.
Upsala—niversity Library.
Société Royale des Sciences a U Ipsal.
NORWAY. Bergen—Bergen’s Museum. Christiania—The University Library. ICELAND. Reykjvik—islands Stiftisbokasafn.

<<<Page: 372>>>

51 r 108 |
Ged acer eeonvelive Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab. Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. Kongelige Bibliothek.
RUSSIA. Dorpat—Observatoire Impérial. Moscow—Société Impériale des Naturalistes de Moscou. St. Petersburg—Académie Impériale des Sciences. Imperial Public Library. Administration Impériale des Mines. Pulkowa—Observyatoire Impérial.
Amsterdam—Académie des Sciences. Haarlem—Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. Leyden—University Library.
Musée d’Histoire Naturelle. Middleburg—Zeeuwsche Genootscap der Wetenschappen. Rotterdam—Bataafsch Genootschap der proefondervindelijke Wijsbegeerte. Utrecht—Utregtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen.
Berlin—Koniglich-Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Kénigliche Bibliothek. Kénigliches Museum. Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Bonn—University Library. Bremen—StadtBibliothek. Bonn—K. L. C. Akademie der Naturforscher. _ Dresden—Konigliche Bibliothek. Erlangan—Univ ersity Library. Frankfurt am Main—Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Freiberg—Knigliche-Sachsische Bergakademie. Freiburg—Unive ersity Library. Giessen—University Library. Greifswald—University Library. Goettingen—Knigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. University Library. Halle—University Library. Hamburg—Stadt-Bibliothek. University Library. Hanover—Royal Library. Heidelberg—University Library. Jena—University Library. Karlsruhe—Gr ossherzoglic he Hofbibliothek. Koenigsberg—University Library. Leipzig—StadtBibliothek. University Library. Kénigliche Sachsische Gesellschaft. Fiirstliche Jablonowski ’sche Gesellschaft.

<<<Page: 373>>>

[ 108 7 58 Marburg—Gesellschaft zur Beférderung der Gesammten Naturwissenschaften. University Library. Munich—Koniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Kénigliche Hof-und Staatsbibliothek. Prague—University Library. K6nigliche Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Béhmisches Museum. Pesth—University Library. ~ Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft. Stuttgart—Konigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek. Verein fiir Vaterlandische Naturkunde. Tiibingen—University Library. Vienna—K. K. Akademie der Orientalischen Sprachen. Kaiserliche Hofbibliothek. University Library. Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. K. K. Naturalien Kabinet. Wirzburg—University Library.
Bruges—Société des Sciences Naturelles.
Bruzxelles—Académie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux-Arts. Observatoire Royal.
Gand—University Library.
Liege—Société Royale des Sciences.
Louvain—Université Catholique.
Jngers—Societé d’ Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Bordeaux—Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Société Linnéenne. Caen—Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Société Linnéenne de Normandie. Dijon—Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Lille—Société des Sciences, de l’Agriculture et des Arts. Mende—Société d’ Agriculture, Commerce, Sciences et Arts. Lyon—Société d’ Agriculture, d’ Histoire Naturelle et des Arts Utiles. Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Société Linnéenne. Marseilles—Académie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts. Metz—Académie Nationale. Montpellier—Société Archéologique. Orleans—Société des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. ‘ Paris—L’ Institut de France. Societe des Antiquaires. Asiatique. «« de Géographie. ¢ Géologique de France. «© Frangaise de Statistique Universelle,

<<<Page: 374>>>

Société Philomatique. «de I’Ecole des Chartes.
Bibliotheque Nationale.
Bibliothéque du Jardin des Plantes.
L’ Institut Historique.
L’Ecole des Mines.
Société Ethnologique.
Bibliothéque de la Ville de Paris.
Société Nationale et Centrale d’ Agriculture.
Ministére de la Marine. Strasbourg—Société des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts, du Bas Rhin.
Académie des Sciences Naturelles.
Toulouse—Académie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres.
Basel—Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Antiquarische Gesellschaft. Bern—Schweizerische Gesellschaft fiir die Gesammten Naturwissenschaften. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Geneve—Société de Physique et d’ Histoire Naturelle. Neuchatel—Société des Sciences Naturelles. Zurich—Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Gesellschaft fiir Vaterlindische Alterthiimer in Zurich.
Bologna—lIstituto delle Scienze ed Arti Liberali. Catania—Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Florence—Accademia del Cimento. Bibhoteca Magliabecchiana. Lucca—Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Milan—Bibhioteca Brera, Imperiale Regio Instituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Modene—Societa Italiana delle Scienze. Naples—Reale Accademia delle Scienze, e Belle Lettere. Padwa—Imperiale Regia Academia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Pisa—University Library. Palermo—Royal Academy of Sciences. Rome—Accademia Romana di Archeologia. Biblioteca Vaticana. Accademia Pontifica dei Nuovi Lincei. Turin-—Accademia Reale delle Scienze. Venice.—Biblioteca Marciana.
Lisbon—Academia Real dos Sciencias.
SPAIN. Madrid—Real Academia Espanola. ke oh de la Historia.
Academia Real de Ciencias.

<<<Page: 375>>>

[ 108 | 60
Belfast—Natural History and Philosophical Society. Cambridge—Cambridge Philosophical Society. University Library. Observatory. Penzance—Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. Dublin—Dublin University Philosophical Society. Royal Irish Academy. Library of Trinity College. Edinburg—Royal Society. Royal Scottish Society of Arts. Reyal Observatory. Library of Faculty of Advocates. Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. University Library. Wernerian Society of Natural History. Glasgow—University Library. Greenwich—Royal Observatory. London—Royal Society. ‘“* Astronomical Society. ‘« Asiatic Society. ‘* Geographical Society. ‘¢ Institution. Society of Antiquaries. Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce. Linnean Society. Geological Society. Institution of Civil Engineers. Zoological Society. Entomological Society. Statistical Society. Microscopical Society. Ethnological Society. British Archeological Association. British Museum. Library of the House of Commons. Horticultural Society. Chemical Society. Archeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. Board of Admiralty. Library of the Hon. the East India Company. College of Physicians and Surgeons. British Association. Leeds—Philosophical and Literary Society. Manchester—Literary and Philosophical Society. Oxford—Bodleian Library. Radcliffe Observatory. St. Andrews—University Library.

<<<Page: 376>>>

61 [ 108 |
GREECE. Athens—University Library.
Constantinople—Library of the Sultan.
Grand Cairo—The Egyptian Society. Liberia—Government Library.
Allahabad—Mission College. Batavia—Bataviaasche Genootschap yan Konsten en Wetenschappen. Bombay—Royal Asiatic Society. Geographical Society. Calcutta—Asiatic Society. Ceylon—Asiatic Society. Hong Kong—Asiatic Society of China. Madra s—Literary Society. Manilla—Royal Economical Society of the Phillipine Islands.
Bogota—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais.
Caracas—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. Habana—Real Sociedad Economica.
Rio Janeiro—Imperial Brazilian Historical Society. Chili—Government Library.
1. Box of Coals from the Island of Formosa. From the State Department. 2. Slab of Itacolumite or flexible sandstone, from the province of Minas Geraes, Brazil. From Charles De Selding, Esq.
3. Two boxes containing specimens of European birds, reptiles, fishes, &c. From I’. Sturm, Esq.
4. Skull and horns of Elk (Elaphus canadensis) from Bear river, Utah. Saddle used by Columbia river Indian women. From Major O. Cross, U.S. A.
5. Keg of fishes from Constantinople. From Hon. Geo. P. Marsh.
6. Fossil wood from great falls of the Columbia. Sedimentary deposits from Mineral Springs in Utah. From Major O. Cross, U.S. A.
7. Reptiles from California and Oregon. From Dr. A. J. Shilton.
8. Tooth of Fossil horse, from Ohio. Fossil Cyathophyllum, Dover, Tenn. From Leo Lesquereaux, Esq.
9, Cast of Palzotherium Prouti. Krom Dr. H. A. Prout.
10. Skull of Chamois, (Capella rupicapra) and of Roebuck, (Cervus capreola-) From Wilhelm Heine, Esq.

<<<Page: 377>>>

[ 108 | 62 ,
11. Dress and equipment of an OQorang Kayah or Bornese Warrior. From Hon. J. B. Balestier.
12. Specimens of Otsego Bass, (Coregonus Otsego.) From Daniel B. Boden, Esq.
18. Collection of plants from Hungary. Specimens of Oecsirus Columbacsensis. From Arthur Schott, Esq.
14. Five skulls and horns of deer, (Cervus virginianus.) From J. S. Bowman, Esq.
15. Gold and cinnabar ores from California. From
16, 17. Two kegs of fishes from the Ohio river at Cincinnati, Ohio. From S. F. Baird, Esq.
18,19. Two kegs of fishes, reptiles, &c., from Racine, Ohio. From Dr. P. R. Hoy. 20. Fossil bones from cave near Danville, Ky. From Prof. G. C. Schaeffer. 21. Fossil wood, from Lebanon, Ky. From Prof. G. C. Schaeffer.
22. Skeletons of elk (Cervus canadensis) and of fallow deer (Cervus dama) from Colonel Tuley’s park, Clark Co., Va. From Dr. C. B. R. Kennerly.
23. Collection of fish, reptiles, invertebrata, &c., from near Charleston, S. C. From Chas., Girard, Esq.
24. Fishes and reptiles from French Creek, Pa. From Prof. L. D. Williams.
25. Fishes and reptiles from Jamaica. From Prof. C. B. Adams.
26. Reptiles collected in California. From Dr. J. L. Le Conte.
27. Skeleton of California vulture (Cathartes Californianus.) From Dr. J. L. Le Conte. 28. Fishes from river St. Lawrence. From Dr. F. B. Hough.
29. Eggs of guillemot. From W. B. Blaney, Esq.
30. Specimens of Menobranchus, &c., from Lake Erie. From R. K. Winslow, Esq.
31. Skin of bighorn (Ovis montana) male, and skull of female, from the Upper Missouri. From the Hon. J. Butterfield.
32. Fishes, &c., collected at Cooperstown, N. Y., Coxsackie, &c. From S. F. Baird, Esq.
33. Fossil vertebrata from the Mauvaises Terres; skulls of wolves; skin of bighorn, (Ovzs montana.) From Capt. S. Von Viet, U. S. A.
34. Fossil infusoria from Bermuda, &c. From Professor J. W. Bailey.
35. Jaws of Searus. From Fletcher Stayman, Esq.
36. Cast of bones of fossil seal, from Richmond, Va. From Dr. J. Wyman. 37. Antlers of reindeer, (Tarandus hastalis,) from Isle Royal. From Col. J, W. Foster. " 38. Fishes from the vicinity of Reading, Pa. FromS. F. Baird, Esy.
39. Specimen of “ fish with legs,”? (Stredon lichenoides,) from near SantaFé. From Dr. J. Leidy.
40. Reptiles collected in Florida. From Prof. J. W. Bailey.
41. Fossil specimen of capelin, (Mallotws,) in clay nodule, from the Ottawa river. From W. E. Guest, Esq.
42. Fishes from Ogdensburg, N.Y. From W. E. Guest, Esg.
43. Specimens of reptiles. From Prof. E. Emmons.
44. Keg of fishes from Florida. From Prof. L. Agassiz.
45. Specimen of Spanish mackarel, (Cybivm maculatum,) from the Potomac river.
46. Horns of Elk, (Cervus canadensis,) trom Clearfield co., Pa. From Prof. S. S. HaldeMAN.
47. Keg of reptiles, fishes, &c., collected along the Nile, From the Hon. Geo. P Marsh. 48, Specimen of Indian cloth from a mound in Ohio. From Col. J. Ws Foster.

<<<Page: 378>>>

63 f 108 J
49. Specimen of horned frog, (Phrynosoma cornuium) from Arkansas. From Colonel Swords, U. S. A.
50. Four cases of reptiles, fishes, mammals, &c., from Greenland and Denmark. From Schach Steenberg, Esq.
51. Two kegs of fishes from Racine, Wisconsin. From Dr. P. R. Hoy.
52. Indian pottery from near Ogdensburg, N. Y. From Wm. E. Guest, Esq. 538. Remains of Mastadon, frora Gloucester, Va. From Rev. Chas. Mann. 54. Remains of Mastodon, from Gloucester, Va. From Capt. Marchant.
55. Specimen of Pelamis from Siam. From Hon. J. B. Balestier.
56. Specimens of fishes from Moosehead Lake, Me. From Chas. Girard, Esq.
57. Duplicates of the Bonaparte collection of European reptiles and fishes. From the Academy of Natural Sciences.
58. Reptiles and fishes from Madrid, N. Y. From E. O. Dayton, Esq. 59. Minerals from New Brunswick. From Prof. Chipman.
60. Specimens of “ Lewetscus pygmaeus? Dekay, from Rockland co., N. Y. From Jno. G. Bell, Esq.
61. Specimens of Hippocampus from Norfolk, Va. From Charles Lanman, Esq. 62. Keg of fishes and invertebrata from Key West, Florida. From L. F. Pourtales, Esq.
63. Three boxes Geological specimens, collected by Dr. D. D. Owen. From the Hon. J. Butterfield. ;
By Joseru Lerpy, M. D.
Professor Henry, Secretary Smithsonian Institution :
Dear Sir: At your request I have prepared the following brief report upon the fossil remains of remarkable Mammalia and Chelonia of Nebraska Territory, a collection of which was transmitted to me by the Smithsonian Institution for investigation and the preparation of a special memoir.
-The fossils were obtained in that portion of country known to the hunters and trappers under the name of ‘‘Manvaises Terres,” or “ Bad Lands.” They were collected principally by Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson and Captain Stewart Van Vliet, U. S. A., and were procured for the cabinet of the Smithsonian Institution through the untiring zeal of Prof. Baird.
The characters of the remains indicate the locality from which they were derived to be an extensive lacustrine deposit of the eocene period.
The Mammalian remains consist of one existing genus, Rhinoceros ; one genus known only as extinct, Paleotherium ; and seven genera, Archeotherium, Paleotherium, Oreodon, Merycoidodon, Eucrotaphus, Agriocherus and .Arctodon, which are new to Paleontology.
The Chelonian remains consist of the two existing genera Testudo and Emys.
Of Rhinoceros there are two species: :
1. Rutnoceros Nepraskensis, Leidy: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences of Philadelphia, vol. v. p. 121. A species about the size of the R. minutus,

<<<Page: 379>>>

Cuvier. Established upon the greater portion of a face and lower jaw containing all the molares. There were also in the collection several fragments of jaws with teeth, and an entire ‘tibia, of several other individuals of the same species.
2. Ruioceros occipentTaLis, Leidy: ib. 119, 276. A species little more than half the size of R. indicus. Founded upon a fragment of the lower jaw with the posterior molar tooth, fragments of nine superior molares, two entire inferior molares, and fragments of several others.
Of Paleotherium three species are indicated :
1. Pataotuertum Proutir, Owen, JVorwood and Evans: ib. 66; Leidy: tb. 122. This is an enormous species of Palwotherium far surpassing any previously described, and approaching the elephant or mastodon m size. It was first discovered and described* by Dr. Hiram A. Prout of St. Louis. The specific name was incidentally given as above referred.
2. PaLmorHeRiuM Barrpu, Leidy: Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vol. v. p. 122. A species about two-thirds the size of Paleotherium crassum, Cuvier, established upon a cranium with a portion of the face containing the true molares; and all the superior and inferior molares with portions of the jaws of a second individual; and several fragments of a lower jaw of a younger individual. The species is named in honor of Prof. S. F. Baird, of the Smithsonian Institution.
ARCHOTHERIUM is a remarkable genus of Pachydermata, which, as since ascertained by the inspection of a fragment of a face containing several true molares, in the possession of Dr. David D. Owen, of Indiana, is Closely allied to Hyracotherium, Owen.
ArcumoTHERIUM Mortont, Leidy: ib. 92. This species was founded on a fragment of a-face containing the third and fourth premolar and the alveolus for the first true molar of the left side.
It is named in honor of Dr. S. G. Morton, late President of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
P@LUOTHERIUM, is a genus of Ruininantia allied to Dorcatherium, Kaup.
Pa:LuorHEeRium Witsoni, Leidy : ib. iii, 322. Established upon nearly the whole anterior portion of a cranium with the lower jaw, containing all the molares.
The species is named in honor of Dr. T. B. Wilson, of Philadelphia.
The genera Oreodon, Merycoidodon, Eucrotaphus, and probably Agriocherus, form members of a family of Ruminant Pachyderms, characterized by the teeth forming a closed arch in both jaws with the following formula:
inc. } can. | pre mol. 4 mol. 3.
_1. Orropon priscum, Leidy: ib. v, 238; ib. 276. A species about the _ size of a common sheep, founded upon the greater portions of six crania, one of which upon one side contains all the teeth of both jaws in a perfectly entire condition. There are also in the collection fifteen fragments of jaws with teeth of several other individuals. ;
2. OrEopon GRraciLe, Leidy: ib. 239. A much smaller species than the preceding, founded upon the greater part of the superior and inferior maxill, containing the molares.
* Fragments of both sides of a lower jaw containing the posterior three molares, an entire superior molare and several fragments of others of one individual, and the posterior in-
ferior molare (mutilated) of a second, have been kindly loaned by Dr. Prout for further description. e

<<<Page: 380>>>

65 68
To Josera Henry, LL.D., Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution :
Sir: I herewith present to you the report of operations duiing the year 1851, relative to the meteorologic cal correspondence entrusted to my charge as General Assistant.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
The plan adopted for obtaining a corps of meteorological observers for the Smithsonian Institution consisted im issuing a circular letter of date November 1, 1848, which was signed by the Secretary and Prof. Espy, requesting the cooperation of those interested in the subject. This was distributed by members of Congress during the winter of 1848-9, to such of their constituents as were judged by them to be favorable to the undertaking.
A large number of communications in reply accumulated during the winter, and i in February, 1849, the conresgondenre was arranged, the necessary answers prepared and sent with blank forms for the ‘registers of the weather, and a copy of the annual report of 1849, which contained communications on cteonplony: An address: book for this special correspondence was also prepared. _
Fhe number of persons who offered their assistance at that time, or from whom we were informed that co-operation might be expected, may be stated as follows
IMIQING is Sista cree eis ere islolens Aeittnlsre usitis «ei LOM\ PALA DATA stele lckatets isl Si) eIRTe, OPO ae oka: New Hampshire...... Saybia waleieue tbiaretsiys 2h: UNPISSISSIOPI variate a\ernts aiysls e]eisleinteloie’s\sievewe LIA. Vermont... fae sees. AS Tae Ae 7 | Lowisiana...: .. CA EER A oh ck cade cies a Massachusetts? o. coc. .c' a atstora tarotettlse see TSH) PeKast as cone cate ahareta wuatelsieveliioicussrieies ; 3 Rhode Wisland racic siocsv ch ne eee tees > Dry tATKANSAS :. Siac Puescisierareiauceiee eit chaleie air ale nL Connecticutiiicsis Sos2 ccs ch occ Site 10'| Missouri..... <Rse RCo wie aieee Se ee ne ING WAGON Kterrsi wi cidion aes siamiancmeeReeate >. b6clebennessee v.kken Fae Mina Berle ad INIGW SCTHCY 35 =z six -cicletetalesin's se ae let's 's 12% Kenticky .9 5 :.cnt eh ts Bh ea eeavare ea | Pennsylvania......., CA oA GaHoe BB WONTO Rs eres wiee ete le ootarsionie ites ate slelcleroue 0) ela WATE: <i icc\mcre tis ere wie Pievereie lee Kinng Sete 2 |. Michigan. /... a) tatecchepenels cranes teers cee lO IMIATYAANG 5% sje cajaic sisi ateieeeiele fine JAnenuOE AD’ 1 Unig riaee cst wisetnerene cise aioe trees Pepdoe 16 EVA DUA: oss « eee Sterne cise eee Geis pe \22-1 LIMOS ait Sista es leu meee ere eins Reece: e | Nort Carolina os sic cee wets ciaccmtetern sis. < B | Lowa soem secs cries te ate aiaretelne ate eae 4 ProubhsGarglina < ues se 6 Lees Riau betes As | NYASCONSIN’ ci tycroatiaee AGEN Sak ee aS pee IC Georgia cc. ci. crseMac nate a WTA 6) 3 7 | 2 inloridts hk un oc BAAN eS sie TP Oba se dreararere pieces reriesuinievaretarenean leas
Of this es one hundred and forty-three were correspondents of Prof. Espy, who had been previous sly engaged in collecting observations under the direction of the Navy Depa: ‘tment. To these also a circular and documents were sent, as it was desirable to retam the assistance of practiced observers. Fyrom nineteen of this number we have received records of observations, and ten of them still continue to make monthly returns to the Institution.
Offers of service are continually made, and in accordance with our plan and at the request of the applicant, meteorological blank forms and directions are invariably sent. The regular conduct of a journal, however, re

<<<Page: 381>>>

quiring more perseverance and punctuality than most persons are willing to bestow, we have a very large number of applications of this kind which have proved barren of any results. The whole number of the prese nt corps of observers to the end of December, L851, is 155, the larger part of whom have contributed their observations from March, 1849, when the system commenced, a period of nearly three years. They are (listributed over the various States as follows:
MianTIe cere e's!65 «oper aes age Bsafela'a a) bai oes op ROM MNLISSISSID DLs. Maree aise oletereisvereeeise eermee a4 New: Elamipshire reso ciety os cis eels a 43s sos AB PISOUISIADG «<< here cic ce iereihade ve eee: Wenmontc®..~ acldstrdenmethes 4. ius Fem cet Sot al Uo. ce ae ai cia Sus ha alone ere 3 Massachusetts. cece ccelecs sets acta erage CUMMIE ERTECON SOS) Servs oS aveie ard c'eavats.¢ eacr eeteereee Rhode Island .....0.6% er ene & Ji Missouni...s.. teeth cc Mie ook aisveradee ~ + Connecticut...... Bete a heicl visls eicians ots etre SSI LUGHMIGSSOG wis cisiayeccte, onc ciy aa) nacecreroeneae, mee Nie wr 2¥ ODS hremeaerer te tela ciel6-n-ésleudisietee o BUC RISENULICIEY> 5. sa. c-s tralovets-a oonely: suetavalarsielera are ae Pennsylvania ..... erence pera sy sh clea, 5 ola, 3 Ue MOTION tteka reese csi <) osefere a af. tacks, a ccsteher opto oe Delaware .....-. SR eee De coe cumin WUTCHI PAN re etercac eels arerajeheleherste sealers eo™ 0 NeW Jersey vies osc os ees See S yale garam EC LNCTELIIA, Sec, cperstap ore Sal cbiere omer cokes sscisieveren = ASTI ATI eee: «spose etter eis angie ots cis hi acne «eve ee OMPULIM OTST. 5.< statsls ose. creas s,ster evel wnelel a; halal fea ees Virginia..... Be epepricio ena cteie ba Gaara li MALO Wiblevecs Chesces c Bad the aise eave esters toes INIOPUNNO@ATOMMD. ae syaersscle ice oa 6 ob Les gee 2 HeVVISGONSIM . wecwis caves ce satan) Be eee OuMbhY Garolinas. 65. acic's) steve ace vee eiacts eg Da IVEINN GSO GAs case: ce osasie'< a ieucteeno tence rA aaa z 2 GOOTEIS sits ce aes sec fue. Coe PIMOS SOU cre ee sateas tithel'n eae. Crema ae PG wares LUNG i ha ieee aie Seo i % See te ee ma —Alabama ......... Bievell et oietey s:3. Sakae Arenas) TOGA tee seautle : saenee weeeees 155
This list is increasing partly by voluntary offers and PREY from a request made to the observers in the Southern and Western States to enlist others in the work, m their respective districts. The number is not perinitted to diminish, if it can be avoided, by the discontinuance of an observer. When such is reported to us as probable, the retiring observer is uniformly requested to place the register m the hands of a suitable successor, and ‘keep the chain of gprs tions unbroken. ‘The increase has been marked within a few months past, and if is satisfactory to note that the ereater number come trom the Sorthien and Western States, in which our observers have heretofore been but comparatively few. From the occasional discontinuance of some, and the frequent additions of others, our list is constantly fluctuating in effective strength ; the numerical force can be known, however, at any time, .
It is proper to state that for extra limital stations we have an observer each in Nova Scotia, Canada West, New Grenada and Bermuda, from all of which manuscript registers are received, except from the last. His excellency Charles E lliot, governor of Bermuda, has ordered that the Royal Gazette, containing a weekly register of the weather in Bermuda, be regularly sent to this Institution,
Observations have been received at the Smithsonian Institution, during the year 1851, from the following persens :

<<<Page: 382>>>

{ 108 ]
List of persons from whom meteorological observations have been received at the Sinithsonian Institution, during the year 1851.
| iS reNiee cof peers ——
New Hamesuire ---!
Name. | Residence. Rev. Samuel H. Merrill---| Old Town. George B. Barrows-----Fryeburg. James G. Garland------Biddeford. Rufus. Buck -----------< Bucksport. S.A. Eveleth-----------Windham. | Joshua Bartlett ---------Whitehead. | J. D. Parker------.-----Steuben. Christopher Prince-------Thomaston. Dr. Joseph L. Stevens-----| Castine. Dr. William Prescott------| Concord. Robert. Mack---s+22< -. Londonderry. Rey. Levi W. Leonard----| Dublin. Rev. Zadock Thompson---| Burlington. +Charles’@cbrost.=<. =< <'-'Brattleboro. D. P. Thompson-------Montpelier. | Prof. W. H. Parker------Middlebury. ~R.M. Manley----------Randolph. Jacob Batchelder--------Lynn. Charles J. Gilliss---------Lowell. Samuel fF. Haven--------Worcester. Wilham: Bacon=----+--=Richmond. Prof. -E. S. Snell--'------. | Amherst. Amaswikolcomb:= 2s .2<< <= Southwick. | John G. Metcalf----------| Mendon.
| Thomas Bailey
| C. M. Freeman
Ruopr Isianp
ConneEcTICUT
| Prof. E. Cutler
le Chas. H: Hoadley
New York
Henry Rice-------------Martin N. Root
were eee eee
Prope AerCaswell-24cj ese =
Rey. T. L. Edwards Prof. Aug. W. Smith
M. H. Cobb Dr. Ovid Plumb R. H. Phelps
see ew eee ees
-~e=e2e 2 =
| L. F. Munger-----------| C. KF. Maurice | E, A. Dayton---------=|
_ New Bedford. | N. Attleboro. | Byfield.
| Wilhamstown. |
. | Providence.
| | New London.
| Salisbury. | Windsor. | Hartford. | Albion. _ Sing Sing. Madrid.

<<<Page: 383>>>

State.
New Yorxr—Cont’d.
New JERSEY
~ Cornelius Chase
| J. L. Miller | Rev. J. G. Ralston | John Wise
John Jackson
| Andrew Roulston-= ---| David Peelor
| Dr. R. P. Stevens | Dr. Paul Swift | Ebenezer Hance----| | E. T. Kluger ' Prof. L. D. Williams
Dr. J. Heiseley-----------
| Walter D. Yale
| Moses Lane
List— Continued.
Name.
Dr. F. B. Hough
John Bowman
were cee ees!
J. E. Breed-------------E. N. Byram John Lefferts-->+--------James M. Tower--------| Prof. O. W. Morris John P. Fairchild John F. Jenkins Albert Hosmer-----------
-—s= see ase 2s ee =
Mandren Linus--------James N. Ball James B. Trevor L. A. Beardsley William E. Guest Henry L. Dinmore Thomas B. Arden
see enwe nana eo wewseemen ewe eee eee ow vee ewe we wee ee eee
Lorin Blodget Prof. J. H. Coffin--------Edward Fenderich------Prof. M. Jacobs Joseph Edwards }
pe? Ren;
~—s 2, eee eee
Corydon Marks
eee ewe ee eee eee
Orrin T. Hobbs KE, L, Dodder---------
Residence,
Somerville. Van Buren. Honesville. Smithville. Sag Harbor. Lodi . Waterville.
| New York.
Seneca Falls. Salem Centre. Buffalo. Springville. Oswego. Sackett’s Harbor. North Nassau.
| Lockport.
South Edmeston. Ogdensburg. Syracuse. Phillipstown. Chatham.
Burlington. Bloomfield. Newark.
Sugar Grove. Easton. Pittsburg. Gettysburg.
Lima.
| Norristown. } Lancaster.
| Darby.
Freeport. Indiana. Manchester. Ceres. Philadelphia. Morrisville. Nazareth. Meadville. Harrisburg. Randolph. Easton.

<<<Page: 384>>>

Lyst—C ontinued.
Residence.
WIRGINTA Smee sleeere
Nortu CARoLina---
Souty Caro.Lina----
PUORIDASe-2. oaleee
MissIssIPPi
LovIsIANA
Daxague sats ase cicce
Prof. W. IF’. Hopkins
Dr. Lewis I. Steiner Dr. Wilham Baer
-—s awe
eee ocean
Josiah Jones------ies dats
Dr. F. J. Mettaner------+-
eee eee ew te ewan
Wm. Skeen
Lieut, R. F. Astrop------| Charles Meriwether-------
Dr. Wm. IN. Patton------David Turner William C. Hagan Dr, A. M. Grinnan Prof. G. R. Rosseter
ees ee eee ewes ewer wee a eww teow oe
DieMorrelle> 22822 22a Prof. Jas. Phillips
Dr. John P: Barrat
Prof. Lewis R. Gibbes---!
Dr. J. A. Young---------H. W. Ravenel T. Carpenter
Col? W. Wallace=2--= -—< |
Richard T. Gibson--.-.-
Dr. George I’. Cooper---
John: Newton=:= === 4-\-5 John Pearson
Judge Augustus Steeleee
Annapolis. _ Frederick. | Sykesville. | Walkersville.
Prince Edward C. H.
Huntersville.
Diamond Grove.
| Charlottesville.
| Lewisburg. Richmond. Christiansburg.
_ Madison.
| Buffalo.
| Lake Scuppernong. | Chapel Hill.
Barrattsville. Charleston. Camden.
St. Johns, Berkeley. _ Camden.
Columbia.
Whitemarsh Island. Perry.
Chesnut Hill. Pensacola. Cedar Keys _ -
S. J. Cumming---------| Monroeville. Benj. F. Holby---------| Weokaville. Dr. Charles F. Percival----| Benton. A. Winchell--------.---.| Eutaw. Dr. T. C. Osb orne-------| Erie. Geo. Un. Davis-2-ce= sr | Natches. Thomas Oakley---------_ Jackson. Drs Piekle Bartons-= s-bece | New Orleans. | ; Col. HesVoakums-6* a--er | Huntsville.
Prof. T. C. Ervendberg-* -
New Wied.

<<<Page: 385>>>

State.
Texas (continued)--
MiGHIGAN-«-=8-05= |
INDIANAq<«< == = <a00-
Missouri -<-<#8----
io List—Continued.
Name;
a ~ _ James Henderson-----| | Dr. Samuel K. Jennings--!
| Rs Parrish eee s.< $5255.05 | | O. W. Morris
w~ae eet ee
| sess see=
John E. Younglove A. Beatty-2-----------e | Laurence Young | Prof. S. ¥. McMasters
--2= =<)
| Prof. G. N. Allen---------! | Prof. W. W. Mather brs OG, Bidwella-22. -| | George L. Crookham | S. N. Sanford | Gustavus A. Hyde--------| | J.D. McMathews | Theo. G. Wormley------| |. A. Benton Stephen S. Dorsey
~se2 am
sees eee reece!)
_ Dr. H. R. Schetterly---| Charles Betts | Elmore Wainwright
| W. W. Austin | De. John T. Plummer | Prof. J. Tingley Dr. D. D. OQwen---------Prof. Gardner Jones------Daniel H. Roberis--------
' Prof. P. P. Brown Dr. S. B. Mead---------Henry Taleott-----------
| Prof. Joel Hall-----------|
Rev. N. Scarritt
[108 |
Residence.
San Antonio. Austin.
Fayetteville.
Lebanon. Clarksville. Memphis. Knoxville.
Bowling Green. Prospect Hill.
| Springdale.
Drennon Spring.
Oberlin.
| Athens.
Keene.
| Jackson.
Granville. Cleaveland.
| Hillsboro.
Columbus.
| Mansfield.
Republic.
Detroit.
_ Battle Creek.
Brest.
Grand Rapids. Howell.
Burr Oak.
Clinton.
Richmond. Richmond. Greencastle. New Harmony. South Bend. Newport.
Upper Alton, Augusta. Chicago.

<<<Page: 386>>>

[ 108 j 74
List—Continued.
State. | Name. Residence. \\e Ceo PRE Gainer int: «nea Muscatine. | Dr. Asa Horr-----------; Dubuque. | I, EK. Ball-----eeceee ---| Keokuk. WISCONSIN: --~--+¢| TA. Lapham------+---s-Milwaukie. i Rey. John Gridley-------Kenosha. | Orrin Dinsmore: --------Emerald Grove. | Edward Spencer---------Summit. | Prof. 8S. P. Lathrop------Beloit. | Dr. F. B. Mills ------.--Baraboo. James C. Brayton-------Aztalan. Thomas Gay------------Belle Fontaine. _ C.F. Pomeroy----------Green Lake. JL, Pickard-----------Platteville. Minnesota Trr.----' Rev. Jos. W. Holt, per J. B. Culver------------< Sandy Lake. | Robert Hopkins---------Travers des Sioux. OREGON -=-----| George A. Atkinson-----Oregon City. Brrrisn PossrssionsCapt. J. H. Lefroy ------Toronto, Canada W. | Henry Poole------------Pictou, Nova Scotia.
Distribution of Instruments.
According to the terms of the circular letter of November, 1849, the use of instruments for observation were promised to those persons who should prove most capable and who cccupied the most important places. This has been complied with to the greatest limit permitted by the means of the Institution applicable to meteorology. It was early seen, however, that the applications were so numerous, the country so extensive, and the number of sets which could be furnished so few, that it was determined to modify the plan. AJl applicants for instruments were accordingly notified that they could be obtained by themselves defraying half the cost; the other half being charged to the Institution. Many have availed themselves of this provision—being more willing to accept these terms in consequence of the superior construction of the articles, all of them comparable with each other and the best standards at home and abroad.
The Institution has adopted the policy of favoring the more distant places in the distribution of instruments, when furnished at its own expense— including distant settlements in the new States, or on the extreme frontiers, such as would not likely be otherwise provided for, and from whom obsrvations would not otherwise be obtained. It also avoids furnishing them to colleges, or other institutions of learning, it being presumed that such

<<<Page: 387>>>

articles are or should be a part of their establishment. supplied to the older and more thickly settled States, where a number of
good instruments alrea
dy exist.
Nor could they be
The following tables exhibit the instruments distributed and the places supplied, also the terms upon which they were furnished to the observer :
ExpLANATIONS OF ABBREVIATIONS.—Ps. Psychrometer; Br. Barometer; Tr. Thermometer;
Wy. Wind Vane; Rg. Rain
Gauge.
Instruments deposited with observers and in part paid for by them.
Names.
L. F. Munger..... eee
G. L. C. Davis Ww. W. Wilson N. Scholfield James M. Tower. ........ Se NO PIGEMOY a) erevercus, 1 ofsehes 16 S. N. Sanford E. H. Barton John Newton David Peelor So Be Trevor. <sieeiectcic.eis ‘ E. A. Dayton G. F. Cooper J. G. Ralston
eee ew eee ene
eee eee eens
ee ee were eres
ee ee nee eerve
eee ere er senee
Cr ee
eee eee www nee
ASP OSTCWarts caresses eee ait
Asa Horr S22. Wathrop dv «asi os 6 Dr. E2-C. Bidwell ....:... yep ls AYE MLIST. «os ciston sietere a efeiciere P. P. Brown PU RUTN OT a" ,, cc niste-cco veiere,s,6 WER WAM AGCE Ns 5 distor wisiearete
Total—20 Brs., 22 Trs., 5 Regs.
| Places. | Tnstruments. e | a PATON FING ANG cralttarsteeie s\</<.5 Sieieteie | tag les iN AOC OZ 5 IMtSSiteretejejsr-c = vie waves e's Bry Ritts bute,, Penta s <4's ors 2:0 e100 © Br. pan: Mranciscos Gale... 00 cess Br. (Reported broken.) Waterville: IN RY chicas ste soe o ote Br. WaovansvillG, Ind). ities. < oe sets Br. |) Granville, O... 00 tees crcesess Br. | New Orleans, ae nc.. e vests sos Br: Rig: Chesnut.Aill, Fla. wis ccscsees Br. Indiana: Penna 25.0 d.ccsclsie aces ‘Br. Tn; Wockpont, Ne Yeu. cfeme cs se Br, Tr: Madrid aN 2 Ws ois cles aici gaveoene Ts ie. Ps. ROLLY; GEO w:.hc.ci./o oo sfersis sie tie Sse Br. Tr. Re. Norristown, Peniia............ Brecht. Gebanony Lenni. serc/stensier sie cise.= et oy gue Les Diibuques Towa 72. f. se fe ce nese | Br. Tr. Ps. Rg. Max. T. IBSCL OVO. Wil Sista aia « sraPercrs ceielale airs | Br. Tr. Ps. Tr. 2 Reg. | Keene, Coshocton county, O....| Br. BAT ADO OR. WIS wi cteretasere-afelssoctesrexee | Wie Upper Alton, Me coo. .w ce gerecsiste| Br. | Richmond’ Widisitels ve6.2 0 siaxarateters Br. COMM aS OF Beseiere is ere mace Bre tiry Ps |

<<<Page: 388>>>

716 §
Instruments deposited with observers entirely at the cost of the Institution.
Names.
To each of the Telegraph | OMIGESHAal <.uishe ilar eiane Rev. N. Scarritt......
Hi Ge SaQMier. Syctensrosics eae J. Carin Stone Leas Fos Hammond ee). .c sic o0c0'= | Rev. Jos. Holt, missionary. Ji Wi LOPS sccis cise veve'e
Draws. Vatighanrs oes 20s
Ge Bie Meas Iii crevers) srs sa =a070 Tr. D s BlOA PEE, . acceiee soe sia W. B.GRMOR: fe seis ielejeis.0ie si Bis Wie COMKECY),\.\1ere. sic efeols TB Cll Gite stare cde selec oieter Doaksville Academy... .« Dr. Edw. Hitchcock Rev. John Gridley........ US ATVI cu Seals ese rontetenete PecAC i aphamnnc.. cc cieeies Rev. Mr. Beckwith. ...... Dre e]\ov POSCY< sie <zoyeyt ayepaiere OLEW IMO Sreicsre eiepeiers
ceeee °
Places. |
N.Y., Albany, Utica & Buffalo.| Br Westport o .)... siete severe wueinere’e Alipe Teeons Nicaragua . es lsc ale seis Bi Saltisakes Utah... ie elslemae Br Booneville Mo}, sx 5s-ciersinceviete'6 ar ID TAV CLS ES SLOWX << o?. rsllersyerotacs oie Dr. Stations in Sandy Lake........ } “ir Minnesota, Fort Des Moines, |
Towa and Lowa veo oyieiei<tdiiste Tis Constantinople. < ss. sivciee > sitewley CLI. Sugar Grove, Penna... % .cwindsee Ia. Ontonagon, Lake Superior. ....| Br. SyraenseswNe. V.. 6-4 oie paste Ps: Detroit, Michigan’. Ges sc.)oseiete Ps. Choctaw Nation 3s «....ce0/she sets | Br. Ambersts Mass % 0). 3 8s cask dae | Br. Kenosha, Wisi. aici ide ale ete ate eielere | BE: Muscatines Towa: .sGict0 teers + Ur. Milwaukie, Wis. .a0% cos; due | Br Sandwich Yslands:. .j.. sae ioe tee Br. Savannah; Geo... <eris cltslete cree | Bi Knoxville, Tenn Br.
Instruments.
Ye Ure, ey. and WV, .
Rouen slate nls Sie Reo SW ives r. (Returned broken.)
Tota, —15 Brs., 31 Trs., 6 Regs.
Smithsonian Observers who have paid the entire cost of thetr instruments.
Names. | Places. IVES PHS LGMMBATD: S/o ocressiatcle oicke svelte oMereistetoueroxeieve | Clarksville, Tenn. ..... plea teote tate ste ere ee Dr. J. Ray ..... seal blelepeiets Gtelotate eele ayoiatels ope: |) CUMGIMMAU BO Mier elatoren elcvele Siete o muerene te eee Tes Dr, iLewis J-\Steiner .: .)< <0 eo aoe atapore\ sie I MredericksMigin< sic. vteieraresapscaie (0 b.ccelstametetereenens Professor Wi. F'. Hopkins: . csc piers 206s | AmnapolissaMidis<2! an octet teatecietetaniieaaye Wier Me MS ATLAUD. oss stele csis els, etoie Rites evsie.s | New :Marketysi@.s cic ese cee Sie eye ee etelecee
And five others not reporting their observations to this institution. Reduction of Observations.
The results of this undertaking consist of a series of thirty-five volumes of monthly returns. As the blank forms for each month are received, they are filed away in one volume in the order of the States of the Union enumerated above. Manuscript and newspaper notices of storms, or other atmospheric phenomena, are also inserted in their respective places, according to their geographical arrangement.

<<<Page: 389>>>

United States securities. ‘This plan of finance has been rigidly adhered to, and it now appears from the account books of the Institution that after all the expenditures on the building and grounds, on researches, publications and lectures, on the library, museum and gallery of art, thiere is on hand government security valued, at the present rate of premium, at %209,700, so that the original amount ‘and interest which had acerued previous to the time at which the Institution came into the charge of the Regents, has only been diminished by about 33,000.
In accordance with a part of this plan, Congress has been requested to take from the Institution $150,000, to be placed with the original bequest as a part of the principal, the interest of which alone can be expended, and it is hoped that an act to this effect will be passed during the present session.
The committee have also examined the various and multiplied operations of the institution as set forth in the report of the secretary, and they are happy to assure the board and the public that, in their opinion, the beneyolent designs of the donor are faithfully end efficiently executed in accordance with his injunction, to “* increase and diffuse knowledge among men.’
The following is an abstract of the expenditures during the past year, ranged according to the programme of accounts, which was submitted by the executive committee at the last meeting of the board :

<<<Page: 390>>>

f 108 J 82
Expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1851.
Pay On CORTACES.: o:0\4\5) ae! elsi0\0.0 alte wie site, ales. seis wisi sie e chen sien} oz, 000100 Pay of architects, SC. 0). <j0/<.<.elelda sorceress misysistsi seh otek ie deleishs sonst, yey 2Leeao Expenses of building committee, Kee INT oRee oices Tec Slatoloraimiotsiniste cos 43 538 Miscellaneous to building..... Babe, ota le rchcvecatahe sale ShateiStenetore’s 62 07 Furniture, &C., im COMMON. . <)4<uie sci oe oe oe lauenblcuapobalsteraitetntenets : 657 06 DOs vans for publications...... SHV oa: ojo seuaye cal siehskote SG clalaias 21 00 Doma: © o's ee LECLUTCS! s vieve ote aoloneiAlecscsicie ya uierersiciene Ee alienele 149 99 DOs site is SHIBLATY Joi0 o/erelsRVUUN Tes ole a c,0'c a saleloneitnre nicer . 255 22 Does csviseacie museum..... Risisle stoleterste oe eratetaiete ete Sisvelev site 52 68 Grounds: canes: 6 eiayateerasistctie eae ects a siahale Galeclclatat © 615 64
== ——| 265,971 64 Kxpenses of Board of Regents..... Sialifavareve'o 0 e[vealstotateve aretcrciols 291 20 Lighting and heating........ Rielelsievereretelatataieve. acc erGlercieislotenetetetare 486 35 Postage ee sine eile iieleaieierer slo rets tela lereiensic cere Sines AG ATs Bae 370 78 Transportation ...... a ehecevere late wleieretarer cVetwicy cvs sielel sucvatolstersetevereiers $51 43 Stationery ......... Sbepoove ace Brel TeLeeioteyeie« #!eralereyste sierenetsielai : 419 96 General printing. ..,......... SORA OR GiGREeE elaliglgie ete owaets ; 1,159 06 Apparatus a i a a | Ce i ee i | er eeeesest 148 69 Incidentals general...... FAG ADD Rats CoO So aera one AHO IA | hija dyed oti eo: Salaries general ........00c00s 5 te eee esielorsitiate aiclarelanetiletass A 850997 02
geben 9,405 &2 Smithsonian: contributions. awees sates c Paice ee ate 3,211 76 Reports on progress of knowledge........cccecececcceccecee! 473 82 Other'pulbblications’.../ ). sess. coc. 3 heelehetnre nt we She nete webs wreie ae 100 00 Meteorology: oie. ccce on Att mart sNetstelete Be arcneletere Sioeeatelepialt 394 50 Comp ulations) heise osicsiveeeioer econo line Svatevalahererae's TAA OS| 300 600 Investigations..... eisicilenereis sinieiajaisietolorarsiaie Gore oleiere cle Sinistascle cis 110 00 Pay AOMMICEMULOTS ae) teie echt viele cinlerete eke eek eeu aleve cistere 635 00 Illustrations &c., for lectures,..... saleteets ie tots wreeterepanists euateiesy 316 49 Attendance, &e., for lectures oo Sook sewene ead Bess Brau oeene Heel 86 75 Salaries, publications, . SIN Ie ASH a pe a ar (tie, es 900 00
pe 6,478 32 Cost‘of bOOKS..%.s.0 0c .c LR et ce ar mite sie eas (2016; 00 General catalogue ......... ielarareiaiaaseraatsieteatetortove oh eA ee Ne | 174 88 Incidentals/to Wibrary, yo... <acssioes eee sins eccte Vielee se thaee slat /aaauouOk Nalaries: to library's, aclsseie neni Me niekieme weed pe eeea emda set) /15:999:'92 Explorations—museum, «..:....6 5006 BY ereleiielelt saemindatene eel 50 00 Expenses of Collections ——mmseum |. 6 siyee'<o0 s's.o'sys eis sree aie otels | 183 03 Incidentalgis Geum cena 5(0 Pe cr as er a R acneertiete 512 06 Salariessewees jue denv ewe dO sei AN ge Wee SRE ' 1,500 00 Gallery of art, purchases ....ce.seeecdes ls cacm.ajnicihe meee iars 10 00 incidentals; wallery: Of artis sigs ve aw loco oe cies Saree cle tosirle 6 00
— 7,854 88
TNotalaeze evccee eoeRecoeveceer ee ee ee ee ee eoeeeeecenee 49,710 48
se ———eees
On the building in whole up to end of last year.....,.. ds tenoolaessscteanicere|) Mia ooeeie
25,971 00
200, 953 00
Respectfully submitted by A. D. BACHE, J. A. PEARCE,! JOS. G. TOTTEN. Executive Committee.

<<<Page: 391>>>

The Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution beg leave to submit the following report of the progress of the building during the year 1851, and of the expenditures which have been made under their direction during the same time.
By the resolution of the board, at their session in 1847, the whole expenditure of the building, grounds and furniture, was limited to $250,000 ; and for the purpose of meeting this expense, without encroaching too much on the accruing and accrued interest, the building was not to be finished under five years from the time of its commencement.
On account of the giving way of a part of the interior, the Regents, at their meeting in 1849, ordered a survey of the whole work by a commission of architects. This commission reported that the exterior of the building was well constructed of good materials; that the interior, consisting of wood and plaster, was not proper for a depository of valuable property, much of which will be donations, presented with the implied condition that it would be properly secured agamst danger from fire.
In accordance with this report, the Regents found it necessary to deviate from their original intention, and to order the removal of the wood work which had been erected in the interior of the main building, and to direct that its place should be supplied by fire-proof materials.
This change in the materials of construction, according to the estimate of the architect, James Renwick, Jr., will require an additional outlay of about $44,000. In round numbers we may therefore estimate the entire cost of the building and furniture at %8300,000. To meet the additional expense, the Regents have directed an extension of the time of completing the building.
The contract of Mr. Cameron includes the finishing the whole of the exterior of the edifice, of the interior of the two wings, of the two connecting ranges, and of all the towers. This contract must be finished before the 19th of March of the present year; or, in other words, within the period of five years from the date of the contract.
During the past year, all the exterior of the building, including all the towers, has been completed, and the public have now an opportunity of judging of the architectural effect, relative to which much discrepancy of opinion has existed. The majority of strangers who visit the city, consider it a very beautiful edifice, of which the effect will be heightened by the improvement of the grounds and the planting of the trees.
The committee, since the last meeting of the board, have thought it advisable to order some changes and additions for the better security and use of the building. ‘They have directed that the spiral stairs, leading from the bottom to the top of the octagonal tower, shall be constructed in iron, and that the groined arch, which forms the ceiling of the space between the front towers over the main entrance, shall be constructed in brick instead of wood and plaster; also, that the floor of the second story of the vestibule of the southern tower shall be laid with tile instead of wood. Besides these changes, intended to render the building more secure from fire, the committee have authorized the fitting up of three rooms in the basement of the west connecting range, for printing and stereotyping uses.

<<<Page: 392>>>

In view of appropriating a portion of the main building to the purposes | of a large lecture room, the committee have directed thar the large doors ot the main entrance shall be made to open outward, in order to avoid the fatal consequences sometimes occasioned by the rushing out in a panic of a large crowd of individuals.
To facilitate the approach to the Institution from Pennsylvania avenue, the corporation of the city have appropriated 32,500 to the construction ot an iron foot bridge across the canal at Tenth street, and the necessary footways. This bridge but for an accident would have been finished before this time and will probably be completed in the course of a few weeks. To connect this bridge with the centre of the Smithsonian building, Mr. Down-
a? ing has construct fed a gravel walk underlaid with coarse stone to serve as a drain. Across the bridge and along this path a series of iron pipes have been laid for conveying gas to the Smithsonian Institution from the main pipe along Pennsylvania avenue.
The, plan of the improvement of the public grounds mentioned in the last report of the committee has been adopted by the President, and is now in the process of rapid execution under the direction of Mr. Downing. When it is completed, the whole of the area known as the mall, extending from the foot of Capitol hill to the Potomac river, will be converted into a beautiful park adorned with evergreen and other ornamental trees, and traversed with carriage drives and gravel walks. In the midst of this variegated landscape the Smithsonian building will occupy a prominent position, and with its picturesque architecture will produce a iarmoniow effect.
The President of the United States in 1847 appropriated to the use of the Institution nineteen acres of land, in the middle of which the building has been erected. ‘This space was enclosed with a fence and planted with trees at the expense of the Smithsonian fund. The whole amount of expenditure for these objects was about four thousand dollars, but the execution of the plan before mentioned, at the expense of the general government, will render unnecessary any farther disbursements on this account.
Without surrendering the right of use of the ground appropriated to the Institution, the partition fence between it and the other part of the mall has been pcioved and the whole given in charge to Mr. Downing, and his able assistant Mr. Breckenridge.
The committee recommend that the interior of the north and south towers, which connect with the rooms hereafter to be used for the hbrary and museum, shall be made as far as possible fire-proof. It is also suggested that the gas and water-pipes be laid in the building as it progresses.
The attention of the Board is invited to the consideration of such measures as may be deemed preparatory to proceeding with the completion of the centre building, such as plans and estimates,

<<<Page: 393>>>

> The following is submitted as an account of the expenditures of ihe Smithsonian Institution relative fo the building during the year 1851.
Heys OFC OMMAG US af ora) oielalamicte'e’ «ce! ¥. are's :ai' vrei etoqaisiMielis efe's's 6 00,6:0.. Sing antssie os ce eee OODROD Pay of architect, &c..... cues oe ad sapetee cul, AMeReusTeTs\ 8,00; svave.e 0 Socata oo tiaverens cae 2,214 45 Beepenses of Durdinp COMMITEE, &C 1s cc ve sce ee 8668 ve este we ace ew neenle 43 53 Miscellaneous. tO Dwi Py. s-0.6.6.) 5e 0 6 e1eie aielsue/ Mele 6.80 dies @,0-s)<'s a bie Dats: shove erate 62 07 PUT MUG CEC Ps atet aC O setae: Graielia disie cs: ete.s ok Siete, s'eseeretaie ef2 oS 'e\a, cin». 6 wake alagels slenslenst’ 1,155 95 COPIER alate ett dine cc alegiarofave cicteia eiwicier ofai8 si aioGCcdehG e'i's ssid. de) é ods wo elaronsa gas asim 515 54
| 25,971 54
— ce ne A nT nn
Respectfully submitted

<<<Page: 394>>>



<<<Page: 395>>>

= a No ee

<<<Page: 396>>>

{ 108 | a8
Wasuineton, January 7, 1852. In accordance with the resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meetin on the first Wednes sday_ of January of each year, the Board met this day in the Smithsonian building, at 12 0’clock noon. A quorum not bemg present, the Board adjourned to Saturday the LOth inst.
Wasnineton, Saturday, January 10, 1882.
Agreeably to adjournment the Board of Regents met this day at noon. Present—Messrs. Bache, Fitch, Lenox, Mason, Pearce and Rush, of the Board ; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer.
The secretary informed the Board of the reappointment of Mr. Ritch of Indiana, and Mr. Colcock of Georgia, and the appointment of Mr. Meacham of Vermont, as Regents on the part of the House of Representatives of the present Congress.
The secretary also stated that the accounts and reports of the Institution would be ready for presentation at the next meeting; whereupon, the Regents, after examining the several parts of the establishment, adjourned to meet on Saturday next at 10 o’clock.
e ae
Wasuineton, January 17, 1852.
The Board met this day agreeably to adjournment. Present—Mr. Taney, chancellor; Messrs. Bache, Fitch, Lenox, Pearce, Rush and Totten, of the Board; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer.
The report of the Executive Committee was presented by the chairman, (Mr. Bache,) was read, and ordered to he on the table.
The report of the Building Committee was presented by Mr. Lenox, chairman, and was read.
On motion, the above reports were adopted.
The annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the condition of the Institution and of the operations of the past year, was presented, and a part of the same read.
Copies of the Memoirs and Reports publi ished by the Institution during the past year were placed on the table for the i inspection of the Board.
A letter from Gilbert Cameron, contractor for the building, asking for an advance of money from the fund withheld as security for the proper performance of his contract, and a letter from James Renwick, j jr-, architect, approving of the part payment of the same, were read, whereupon—
On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was
Resolved, That the chancellor fill the places in the? Building Committee which were occupied by Messrs. Davis and Hilliard.

<<<Page: 397>>>

89 and northern Europe, and that about two hundred letters and copies of letters had been received from him.
On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was
Resolved, That one hundred and fifty dollars be added to the sum allowed to Dr. Fliigel for the present year.
The secretary placed before the Board a letter fromm Lieutenant Colonel Edward Sabine, R. A., Corresponding Secretary Royal Society of London, of which the following is a copy:
‘ 13 a) , . RoyaL Socimty’s APARTMENTS, SOMERSET House,
Lonpon, March 19, 1852.
My Dear Sir: I duly communicated to the Karl of Rosse, President of the Royal Society? your letter to me on the subject of the interchange of scientific publications between the United States and this country, and the admission into England, duty free, of scientific books and memoirs presented to institutions or to individuals here, either by or through the Smithsonian Institution. I accompanied this communication by a letter addressed to the president, which you will read in the enciosed printed minutes of the council of the Royal Society of January 15, 1852. The subject has since been brought by the Earl of Rosse under the consideration of her Majesty’s government, who have shown, as might be expected, much readiness to meet, in the same spirit, the liberal example which has been set by the United States, in exenipting from duty scientific books sent as presents from this country to the Smithsonian Institution, and through that Institution to other institutions, and to individuals, cultivating science in the United States. The mode which has been suggested by our Board of Customs, for admitting duty free scientific publications designed for this country, and which, we hope, will receive the approval of the treasury, is, that a list should be furnished by the Royal Society of the names of all institutions and individuals to whom such works may be expected to be addressed, when the custom-house officers will have directions to pass without duty all such publications. having the names of such institutions or persons inscribed either on the cover or on the title page, which are sent to this country in packages directed to the Royal Society—the list to be amended or extended from time to time. The Royal Society will gladly take charge of and distribute under these regulations the books which the Smithsonian Institution may send for institutions and individuads in this country, receiving them from the agent in London appointed by the Smithsonian Institution ; and I shall be obliged by your furnishing me, at your earliest convenience, with a list, as complete as you may be able to make it, ofthe names of the institutions and persons to whom books or memoirs are likely to be sent,

<<<Page: 398>>>

The Royal Society will also gladly receive and forward to their ultimate destination (where such assistance may be useful) packages containing publications of a similar description, designed for institutions and individuals on the continent of Europe; such packages being directed to the Royal Society, and stated on the outside of the case or package to be from the Smithsonian Institution. The customs’ duties will, in such cases, be either altogether remitted or returned on re-exportation.
If it be a convenience to the cultivators of science in the United States, that publications presented to them by institutions or individuals on the continent of Europe, or elsewhere, should be addressed to the Royal Society as a channel of communication, the same facilities will be given by the Board of Customs, and the Royal Society will, with pleasure, make the required arrangements. It will be necessary, in such cases, that packages arriving from the continent of Europe or elsewhere should be marked on the outside, “ for the Smithsonian Institution,’ and the foreign secretary of the Royal Society should be apprised of their being sent. Expenses of freight would of course be defrayed by the agent of the Smithsonian Institution. ;
I remain, my dear sir, with great respect and regard, very sincerely yours,
EDWARD SABINE, Vice Prestdent and Treasurer of the Royal Society.
The Executive Committee presented the following report and resolutions:
The Executive Committee, to whom was referred the subject of inquiring into the expedieney of providirg bnildings for the officers of the Institution, report:
That after due reflection they have come to the conclusion that it would conduce very much to the interests of the Institution if the officers were provided with houses on the Smithsonian grounds, so that they might be present on all occasions, and be as much as possible at all times identified w ith the operations of the Institution; yet at present while the main edifice is unfinished, they do not consider it advisable to incur the expense of additional buildings, and would therefore recommend that in lieu of the rent of a house, five hundred dollars be added to the salaries of Professors Jewett and Baird, to be paid from the beginning of the present } year.
The committee has learned with regre* that by the construction given by the secretary to the resolution of the Board of Regents of December 4, 1846, an allow ance less than was intended by that resolution has been received by him for house-rent, and offer a resolution to meet the case.
A. D. BACHE, ( J. A. PEARCE, Executive Committee. J. G. TOTTEN. ° {
The following resolutions were accordingly, on motion, adopted :
Resolved, That in the opinion of the Board of Regents, the resolution of December 4, 1846, was intended to make an allowance to the secretary of five hundred dollars per annum, in lieu of a residence.
Resolved, That in lieu of the vent of a house there be added to the salaries of Professors Jewett and Baird, each, five hundred dollars per annum, from the beginning of the present year.
The secretary stated that he wished to be on the safe side, and that he had no intention at present of claiming anything on account of previous house-rent.
The Board then adjourned to Saturday, 22d instant.
J y>
Wasuineton, Saturday, March 22, 1852.
The Board met this day, at 11 o’clock a. m. Present—Messrs. Bache, Fitch, Lenox, Meacham, Pearce, Totten, of the Board; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer.
In the absence of the chancellor, en motion, Mr. Pearce took the chair.
Mr. Lenox, from the Building Committee, informed the Board that the work on the building by the present contractor was not quite completed, but might be expected to be so in about ten days. He also remarked upon

<<<Page: 399>>>

parallels within which wheat, Indian corn, etc., may be profitably cultivated, and which present results so different from those found to exist in the eastern continent in Asia, will be determimed accurately. The degree of dryness and moisture will be ascertained; the amount of rain, and the amount of evaporation; questions not only bearing upon tre health and comfort of man, but upon his attempts to facilitate communication by canals and the improvements of rivers, and upon the means of avoiding or controlling floods and freshets. The number of days of rain, the number of ciear and cloudy days, and the amount of loss of the sun’s effect by cloudiness, will be determined; the direction and force of the wind, and the systems of winds prevailing in different parts of the continent, and in the different seasons of the year. The mean pressure of the air and its variations will be seen, as shown by the barometer; from which important data in regard to relative heights of points may be obtained, giving the general topographical features of our extended country, and serving as a reconnoissance in more distant parts of it for railroads or common roads which may be proposed. The progress of waves of pressure, either connected with storms or with the ordinary fluctuations of the atmosphere, will be ascertained. All periodica} phenomena will be studied in connexion with these observations ; the flowering of plants and trees, the ripening of grains and of fruits, the migrations of animals. The frequence and intensity of the aurora borealis will be determined; and its singular variations in passing from north to south and east to west, on our continent, will be studied. The direction of the motion, the frequency, the intensity, and other circumstances actuating our thunder storms, will be ascertained. From the observations will result the law of storms in its full development ; and its application to all parts of the continent, or limitation to particular portions will be entirely ascertained ; an application so important to the farmer and navigator, so interesting to the man of science, and so desirable to be known by every one who travels on any of our lakes or rivers, or along our extensive and somewhat stormy coasts. The lines of our telegraphs will be rendered available for observations on this subject, more complete than any which have been hitherto practicable; aad while they enable us to determine the laws of storms, will also furnish means of giving notice of their progress, and then of anticipating their approach.
‘The diseases incident to different climates, the phenomena of malaria, the progress and laws of epidemics, may be studied in connection with the periodical phenomena from carefully collected statistics.
A contribution to ethnology may be the statistics of the numerical decrease of the Indian races; to the interest of which many minds in this country are fully alive. :
These are only a portion of the results which may be expected from a wide-spread and well organized system of meteorological observations.
We would propose, therefore, to establish at once, in addition to those which now exist, fifty meteorological stations in the positions named below ; to supply the primary stations with a full set of instruments, carefully compared and of uniform construction, namely, a thermometer, barometer, hygrometer, rain and snow gauge, and wind vane ; to cause hourly observations to be made at six or eight stations, and observations three times day at all others, according to the same system.

<<<Page: 400>>>

TO fee NORE Lt OMe UMMM eye te Tate ge ae anes ee ee er
The following list includes stations already occupied, which are, however, | marked to distinguish them from those which it is proposed to establish:
List of the meteorological stations to be established.
Sub-tropicol Zone.—Key West, Florida; Point Isabel, Rio del Norte, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Warm Temperate Zone.—A. St. Augustine, Florida; Tuscaloosa, Alabama; Vicksburgh, q Mississippi; Fredricksburg, Texas; EL Paso, New Mexico; San Diego, California. ~ B. Chapel Hill, Carolina; Knoxville, East Tennessee; Nashy ille, West Tennessee ; Fort Atkinson, Indian Territory ; Fort Washita, Indian Territory; Santa Fe, New y Mexico. a
Middle Temperate Zone.—A. X. Washington, D. C.; Lexington, Virginia; Fort Leaven-, worth, Indian Territory; Bent’s Fort,do. B. X. New York city, “New York; a cen| tral point, Pennsylvania ; Steubenville, Ohio ; Columbus, Ohio; Indianapolis, Indiana; © Springfield, Illinois; Bloomington, lowa. 4
Middle Temperate Zone (continued.)—Fort Kearney, M. T.; Fort Laramie, M. T.; Salt Lake, Utah; Fort Hall, Oregon; Nueva Helvetia, California; San Francisco, do.
Cold Temperate Zone.—Bowdoin College, Maine; Dartmouth College, New Haiapshire; Burlington, Vermont; Kingston, Canada; Manitoulin Island, or Bruce Mines, Canadas _ Lansing, Michigan; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Fort Gaines, Minnesota; Fort St. Pierre, Minnesota Ter -ritory ; Fort McKenzie, do.; Fort Kootanie, Oregon; Fort Walla Walla,. do.; Fort Vancouver, do.; three new light-houses along the coast from Oregon to Point Conce sption, California.
Resolutions.
Resolved, That the committee on meteorology recommend to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the appointment of a committee to memorialize Congress. in regard to the immediate extension of the system of meteorological observations now making in the United States, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.
Resolved, That this committee be authorized and directed to request the Secretary of the Treasury to provide for the making of meteorological observations, according to the directions of the Smithsonian Institution, by the keepers of the light-houses which are to be established at points on the western coast of the United States, named in the reports of the committee on meteorology.
Resolved, That the same committee be requested to address the Surgeon General of the United States i in reference to the co-operation of this department in the same system, and to suggest the locations named in the report of the committee on meteorology as those where the observation should be made.
Resolved, That the same committee be requested to memorialize the Canadian government, and the several legislatures of the States of our Union, asking their co-operation in the foregoing system of “Observations.
Rasolti ey "That the same committee be requested to inform the Hudson Bay Company of the steps which have been taken to carry into effect the system referred to in the memorial addressed to them by this association, at the last annual meeting.

<<<Page: 401>>>



<<<Page: 402>>>

a ; a it a
Pent rd >

<<<Page: 403>>>

32d ConGREss,  RICHARD RUSH, JOHN W. MAURY, JOSEPH HENRY, W. W. SEATON, Treasurer.
Building Committee.
>~———_ ——,, Vice President of the United States. ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
JOHN W. MAURY, Mayor of the City of Washington.
JAMES A. PEARCE, Member of the Senate of the United States.
JAMES M. MASON, Member of the Senate of the United States. ROBERT M. CHARLTON, Member of the Senate of the United States.
GRAHAM N. FITCH, Member of the House of Representatives of the United States. WILLIAM F. COLCOCK, Member of the House of Representatives of the United States. JAMES MEACHAM, Member of the House of Representatives of the United States RUFUS CHOATE, Citizen of Massachusetts.
GIDEON HAWLEY, Citizen of New York.
J. MACPHERSON BERRIEN, Citizen of Georgia.
RICHARD RUSH, Citizen of Pennsylvania.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, Citizen of Washington.
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, Citizen of Washington.

<<<Page: 404>>>

MILLARD FILLMORE, President of the United States. —_—— ——__—__, Vice President of the United States. ©
EDWARD EVERETT, Secretary of State.
THOMAS CORWIN, Secretary of the Treasury. CHARLES M. CONRAD, Secretary of War.
JOHN P. KENNEDY, Secretary of the Navy. SAMUEL D. HUBBARD, Postmaster General.
JOHN J. CRITTENDEN, Attorney General.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States SILAS HODGES, Commissioner of Patents.
JOHN W. MAURY, Mayor of the City of Washington.
| | | . ’

<<<Page: 405>>>

Showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution, up to January 1, 1853.
To the Senate and House of Representatives :
In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution, the following documents:
1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations of the Institution during the year 1852, including reports from the Assistant Secretaries, relative to the library, museum, &c.
2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an account of the expenditures for the year 1852.
3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made in 1852 in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice.
4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents.
5. Appendix relative to meteorology, &c.
Respectfully submitted : ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor. JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.

<<<Page: 406>>>

re 7 & « i he ete on

<<<Page: 407>>>

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :
GENTLEMEN: The object of the Annual Report of the Secretary is not only to present to the Regents an account of the transactions of the period which elapses between their successive sessions, but also to make such suggestions as may be important to the future m: inagement of the affiirs of the Institution, and state such facts in relevance to it as may be interesting to the public, or which may furnish a connected history of its transactions.
Since the beginning of the Institution no change has taken place 1 in
the policy originally adopted with reference to “the system of active operations. The details of this plan were well considered, and its importance as the only means of properly carrying out the intention of the donor fully understood at the first. The theory of the plan was expressed in a few propositions, which have been constantly kept in view, and acted upon as far as the law of Congress and other restrictions would permit.
This plan, although prosecuted under very unfavorable circumstances, has produced results such as to render the name of the Institution favorably known wherever science and literature are cultivated, and to connect it indissolubly with the history of the progress of knowledge in our times. Asa proof of this we need only state the following facts:
The Institution has promoted astronomy, by the aid furnished the researches which led to the discovery of the true orbit of the new
lanet Neptune, and the determination of the perturbations of this
planet and the other bodies of the solar system, on account of their mutual attraction, It has also aided the same branch of science by farnishing instruments and other facilities to the Chilian expedition, under Lieut. Gilliss; and by preparing and publishing an ephemeris of Neptune, which has been adopted by all the astronomers of the world.
It has advanced geography, by providing the scientific traveller with annual lists of the occultations of the principal stars, by the moon, for the determination of longitude; by the preparation of tables for ascertaining heights with the barometer; and by the collection and publication of important facts relative io. the topography of different parts of the country, particularly of the valley of the Mississippi.
It has establishe dan extended system of meteorology, consisting ot a corps of several hundred intelligent observers, who are daily noting the phases of the weather m every part of ihe continent of North America. It has imported standard instruments, constructed hundreds of compared thermometers, barometers, and psychrometers, and has furnished improved tables and directions for observing with these instruments the various changes of the atmosphere, as to “temperature, pressure, moisture, &c. It has collected, and is collecting, from its

<<<Page: 408>>>

10 S. Mis. 53.
observers, an extended series of facts which are yielding deductions of great interest in regard to the climate of this country and the meteorology of the elobe.
The Institution has advanced the science of geology, by its researches and original publications. It has made a preliminary exploration of the remarkable region on the upper Missouri river called ‘the Bad Lands,” and is now printing a descriptive memoir on the extraordinary remains which abound in that locality. It has assisted in explorations relative to the distribution in this country of the remains of microscopic animals found in immense quantities in different parts of the United States.
It has made important contributions to botany, by means of the published results of explorations in Texas, New Mexico, and California; and by the preparation and publication of an extended memoir, illustrated with colored engravings, on the sea-plants of the coast of North America.
It has published several important original papers on physiology, |
comparative anatomy, zoology, and different branches of descriptive natural history ; and has prepared and printed, for distribution to trayellers, a series of directions for collecting and preserving specimens.
It has advanced terrestrial magnetism, by furnishing instruments for determining the elements of the magnetic force, to various exploring expeditions ; and by publishing the results of observations made under its direction, at the expense of the government.
It has collected and published the statistics of the libraries of the United States; and perfected a plan of stereotyping catalogues, which will render effective, as a combined whole, all the scattered libraries of the country.
The Institution has also been instrumental in directing attention to American antiquities, and has awakened such an interest in the subject as will tend to the collection and study of all the facts which can be gathered relative to the ancient inhabitants of this continent. It has also rendered available for the purposes of the ethnologist and philanthropist the labors of our missionaries among the Dakotas, by publishing a volume on the language of this tribe of Indians, and has done good service to comparative philology by the distribution of directions for collecting Indian vocabularies.
It has established an extended system of literary and scientific exchanges, both foreign and domestic, and annually transmits between the most distant societies and individuals, hundreds of packages of valuable works. It has presented its own publications, free of expense, to all the first-class libraries of the world, and thus rendered them accessible, as far as possible, to all persons who are interested im their study. No restriction of copyright has been placed on their re-publication 5 and the truths which they contain are daily finding their way to the general public, through the labors of popular writers and teachers. The distribution of its publications and its system of exchanges has served not only to advance and diffuse knowledge, but also to increase the reputation, and, consequently, the influence of our country ; to promote a kindly and sympathetic feeling between the New World and the Old—alike grateful to the philosopher and the philanthropist.

<<<Page: 409>>>

S. Mis. 53. 11
These are the fruits of what is called the system of active operations of the Institution, and its power to produce other and continuous results is ouly limited by the amount of the income which can be appropriated to it, since each succeeding year has presente ‘d new and important fields for its cultivation. All the anticipations indulged with regard to it have been fully realized; and after an experience of six years, there can now be no doubt of the true policy of the Regents in regard to it.
I am well aware, however, that the idea is entertained by some that the system of active operations, though at present in a flourishing condition, cannot continue to be the prominent object of attention ; and that under another set of directors, other counsels will prevail and other measures be adopted, and that wie: has been done in establishing this system will ultimately be undone. It is true, there is cause of fear that the policy in this respect may be changed, for the system we are here considering requires constant exertion, rand is little suited to the tastes and habits of those who seek place and position from mere personal considerations. There is cause to fear, also, from the experience of the past, that the general expenses of a large building, the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it, and the cost of collec ting preserving, and exhibiting specimens of nature and art, will so increase as to paralyze the spirit of activity. Furthermore, the proposition is — ntly urged upon the Regents, “by persons who i” ave not duly considered the will of Smithson, « or who fail to appreciate the importance of the present plan, that a large portion of the income should be devoted to the diffusion of a knowlec lge of some popular branch of practical art; and there may be some fear that a timid policy on the part of the friends of the Institution will lead them to favor such a plan.
To obviate these tendencies, it is the duty of the present Regents, it they are convinced that the policy of active operations is the true one, to endeavor to correct, as far as possible, the errors which may have been committed in the beginning, and to give the Institution such an impulse in the proper direction, that it cannot deviate from it without immediately arresting the attention of the enlightened public, both at home and abroad, who will not fail to demand, authoritatively, sufficient reason for the change.
A promise has been m: ide to all persons in this country engaged in original researches, and who are capable of furnishing additions to the sum of human knowledge, that the results of their labors shall continue to be presented to the world through the Smithsonian publications. The honor of the Institution is also ple »dged to the scientific and literary societies from which it has received exchanges, in this and other countries, that it will continue to send to them at least an annual volume of contributions, of a character similar to those with which they have already been presented. It is on this condition that the library has been so richly favored, not only with the current volumes of transactions, but also, 1 in many cases, from the oldest societies, with full sets of all
the previous volumes of their series of publications. Beside this, the libraries of all the colleges and literary and philosophical societies of this country are supplied “with full sets of the Smithsonian Transactions 5
and in this way a foretaste has been given of the fruit of the operations which will tend, in some degree, t to insure their continuance.

<<<Page: 410>>>

12 S. Mis. 53.
But if, notwithstanding all this, the Institution is destined to a change of policy, what has been well done in the line we are advocating can never be undone. The new truths developed by the researches originated by the Institution, and recorded in its publications; the effect of its exchanges with foreign countries, and the results of the cataloguing system, can never be obliterated: they will endure through all coming time. Should the government of the United States be dissolved, and the Smithsonian fund dissipated to the winds, the ‘Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge” will still be found in the principal libraries of the world, a perpetual monument of the wisdom and liberality of the founder of the Institution, and of the faithfulness of those who first directed its affairs.
Whatever, therefore, may be the future condition of the Institution, the true policy, for the present, is to devote its energies to the system of active operations. All other objects should be subordinate to this, and in no wise suffered to diminish the good which it is capable of producing. It should be prosecuted with discretion, but with vigor; the results will be its vindication.
It was stated in the last report that the Institution had been the contingent legatee of a considerable amount of property. During the past year the facts with reference to this bequest have been investigated, and it appears that Mr. Wynn, of Brooklyn, N. Y., deceased, left a legacy to his wife, and the bulk of his property, valued at $75,000, to his daughter, a child six years old, on condition that at the death of this daughter without issue, the property should come to the Smithsonian Institution. In making this bequest Mr. Wynn says, in his will: “I know no benevolent institution more useful and appropriate than the Smithsonian Institution at Washington.”
This circumstance is highly gratifying to the friends of the Institution, not because it offers a remote possibility of an increase of the funds, but on account of the evidence it affords of the liberal views of the deceased, and of his confidence in the proper management and importance of the Smithsonian bequest. The will of Mr. Wynn induces us to believe that the right administration of the Smithsonian fund will cause similar examples of liberality on the part of wealthy mdividuals of our country; and in this point of view the responsibility which rests on those who have the direction of the affairs of this Institution is greater than that with reference to the good which the income itself may immediately accomplish.
Though it is scarcely to be expected that many unconditional bequests will be made, yet the example of Smithson may induce the founding of other institutions which may serve to perpetuate other names, and increase the blessings which may flow from such judicious liberality. Man is a sympathetic being; and it is not impossible that Smithson himself may have caught the first idea of his benevolent design from the example of our countryman, Count Rumford, the principal founder of the Royal Institution of London.
Bequests for special purposes, bearing the names of the testators, are not incongruous with the plan of this Institution. Lectureships on particular subjects, annual reports on special branches of knowledge,

<<<Page: 411>>>

S. Mis. 53. 13
provision for certain lines of research, and libraries for general use or special reference, may be founded under the names of those who bestow the funds, and be placed under the direction of, and incorporated with, the Smithsonian Institution. The charge, however, of such bequests ought not to be accepted unless they are sufficient in themselves to meet the expenses of the object contemplated by them, and would not encumber or impede the legitimate operations of the Institution. For example: were a library of a hundred thousand volumes offered, it would be unwise to accept it were it not accompanied by the funds necessary to the erection of a building and to the proper support of the collection.
In July, 1850, a new system of accounts was introduced, which has been continued to the present time. According to this system, every payment is made by an order of the Secretary on the treasurer, who, in turn, gives his check on Corcoran & Riggs, with whom the semi-annual interest and the other income of the Institution are deposited. As often as once a quarter all the bills are examined and referred to their appropriate classes, in presence of all the officers of the Institution After the accounts are posted, they are referred to the Executive Committee tor final examination.
By a reference to the report of the Executive Committee, it will be
seen that the funds are in a good condition, and that though during the past year $14,047 have been paid on the building, there is still on hand, after all the expenditures for publications and other purposes, besides the original bequest, upwards of $200,000 of accrued interest. It is to be regretted that Congress has not yet acted on the petition requesting the perpetual funding of $150,000 of the last-mentioned sum. It is highly important that this money should be permanently invested as a part of the principal, so that it can neither be lost nor expended. There are no other means of effectually accomplishing this result except by funding it in the treasury of the United States. The proposition should be pressed upon Congress, though there may be, at present, no very certain prospect of success; for, if the petition be refused, and the money be afterwards lost by improper investment or injudicious expenditure, the responsibility would, in part, rest with the government. _ The charge of this fund, and of all the disbursements, is attended with much solicitude. It involves a degree of responsibility which, to a person unaccustomed to large financial transactions, is very onerous. I beg leave, however, in this place, to mention the obligation which the Institution is under to W. W. Corcoran, esq., for the aid which he has, in all cases, afforded in the management of the funds, and the judicious advice which he has always given relative to their investment.
From the report of the Building Committee it appears that the contract for finishing the interior of the wings and ranges, and the rooms of the towers, has been completed. The whole interior of the main building, comprising a rectangular space of two hundred feet long, fifty wide, and about sixty high, remains to be finished with fireproof materials. It is proposed to divide this space into two stories

<<<Page: 412>>>

14 S. Mis. 53.
and a basement. These stories will be devoted to the library, the museum, and a large and convenient lecture-room.
The business of the Institution would be much facilitated were this part of the building completed. Since Congress has authorized the establishment of a library and museum, it will be well to place all the objects of interest to the public in the main building, and make this exclusively the show part of the establishment, devoting the wings and ranges, and rooms of the towers, to the business operations and other purposes of the Institution. In the present condition of affairs there is no part of the edifice to which the public has not access, and, consequently, business has to be transacted amidst constant interruptions. The loss of time and effective life to which all are exposed who occupy a position of notoriety in the city of Washington, is truly lamentable ; and where this is enhanced by facility of access to gratify mere curiosity, the evil becomes scarcely endurable. Progress in business, under such circumstances, can only be made by an encroachment on the hours usually allotted to rest, and that, too, at the expense of wasted energies and shortened days.
Publications.—During the past year the following memoirs, described in the previous reports, have been collected into volumes and distributed to public institutions in this country and abroad :
1. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism.
2. Researches on Electrical Rheometry.
3. Contributions to the Natural History of the fresh-water fishes of
North America.
4. First part of the Marine Algze of the coast of the United States.
5. Plantze Wrightianz ‘Texano, Neo Mexicana, Part I.
6. Law of Deposit of the Flood Tide, its dynamical action and
office.
7. Description of ancient works in Ohio.
8. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1852.
9. A Grammar and Dictionary of the Dakota language.
The memoir last mentioned occupies an entire volume, the fourth of the Smithsonian series of contributions. The other memoirs are contained in the third volume of the same series.
The remaining memoirs, described in the last report, are still in the press, the printing of them having been delayed by the exhaustion of the appropriation for the year, and by several necessary corrections. A sufficient number of papers will, however, be printed in the course of a few months, with the new appropriation, to complete the fifth volume of Contributions; and if the means prove sufficient, we can readily issue the sixth volume during the present year.
The result of the plan of publication has fully realized the anticipations which were entertained regarding its usefulness. It supplies the food it feeds upon. ‘The appearance in the Contributions of a memoir on any subject immediately directs attention to that subject, and induces other laborers to engage in the same field of exploration. This is particularly manifest in the interest awakened with regard to the

<<<Page: 413>>>

S. Mis. 53. 15
antiquities of our country, and to the languages of the Indian tribes, ne the publications of the Institution on these subjects.
The following is an account of the memoirs received since the dau: of the last report:
Contributions to the History of the Marine Algw of North America:
By Dr. W. H. Harvey: Part 2.
In the report for 1850 an account was given of the acceptance for publication of an extended and expensive memoir on the Marine Algz of the eastern and southern coasts of the United States, by Prof. Harvey, of the University of Dublin. The first part of fie memoir was published last spring, and has found much favor with the botanical world, as well as with the inhabitants and visitors of our seaboard. The second part of the same memoir is now printed, and will be ready for distribution in the course of a few weeks. It is illustrated by twenty-four plates, and comprises 240 pages of printed matter.
The common name of the class of plants which forms the subject of this memoir, viz: seaweeds, has subjected the Institution to the charge of expending its funds on trifling and unworthy objects; and as the same objection may be made to many of the papers forming the series of Smithsonian Gontributions, a few words in vindication of researches of this character may not be inappropriate.
Nothing in the whole system of nature is isolated or unimportant. The fall of a leaf and the motion of a planet are governed by the same laws. ‘The structure of a lichen and the formation of an oak are equally the resuit of definite plans. It is in the study of objects considered trivial and unworthy of notice by the casual observer that genius finds the most important and interesting phenomena. It was in the investigation of the varying colors of ” the soap-bubble that Newton detected the remarkable fact of the fits of easy reflection and easy refraction presented by a ray of light in its passage through space, and upon which he established the fundamental principle of the present generalization of the undulatory theory of light. Smithson himself, the founder of this Institution, considered the analysis of a tear as nowise unworthy of his peculiar chemical skill; and well might he so consider it; for the knowledge of the composition of every secretion of the body is of importance, in a physiological point of view, as well as in the preservation of health and the cure of disease. ~The study of the cause of the spasmodic muscular contraction of a frog, when brought into contact with two pieces of metal, revealed to Grlveai the first facts of the branch of science which now bears his name. The microscopic organization of animals and plants is replete with the highest instruction ; . and; surely, in the language of one of the fathers of modern physical science, “nothing can be unworthy of being investigated by man which was thought worthy of being created by Gop.”
These remarks are particularly applicable to the study of the lower classes of the organic creation. Nature everywhere exhibits economy of means in attaining the most complex and diversified ends. Ever result is produced in the simplest manner when viewed in relation to the whole design. All parts of organized beings, whether plants or animals, are formed of a few elementary structures, variously trans

<<<Page: 414>>>

16 S. Mis. 53.
formed and combined. ‘To obtain a knowledge of the plan and_process of organization, we must begin with the most simple combinations, precisely as we would do in the study of mathematical analyses, in which the student commences with the least complicated formula, and gradually proceeds to those of a more involved character. It is for this reason that the study of the alga, or seaweeds, is of special interest to the physiologist. The framework of every vegetable is built up of cells or little membranous sacks. All vegetable structures, whether wood, bark, or leaves, are formed of aggregations of these cells, differently moulded and united. As we pass along the series of organized forms, we may descend from those of a higher to those of a lower complexity, until, in the class of alge, we arrive at plants of which the whole body is composed of a few cells strung together; and finally at others, the simplest of organized bodies, whose entire framework is a single cell. Now, it is only by a critical study of these rudimentary forms, and by tracing them into their complex combinations, that man can ever hope to arrive at a knowledge of the laws of organization. We might speak of the importance of a knowledge of the algz in their application to agriculture and the chemical arts. But what we have here stated will be a sufficient reason for their study, independent of all minor considerations.
The next memoir consists of an account of a series of researches in the comparative anatomy of the frog, by Dr. Jeffries Wyman, of Cambridge, Massachusetts.
The whole animal kingdom may in one sense be considered as the different development of four separate plans of organization, giving rise to four different classes of animals, viz: the Radiata, the Articulata, Mollusca, and Vertebrata. Whatever discovery is made with regard
to the organization of any of the species belonging to any one of these
classes, tends to throw light on the organization of the whole class, and it is only by the careful study of all the different animals of a class, and a comparison of their analogous parts, that we can arrive at a knowledge of the general laws which pervade the development of the whole. Thus the study of human anatomy is the basis of the investigation of the anatomy of all animals with a back-bone; and conversely, the anatomy of any animal of this class tends to throw light on that of man.
Dr. Wyman’s paper gives an account of a series of elaborate investigations of the nervous system of a very common, but, in a physiological point of view, highly interesting animal.
The following are the several points of the memoir:
1. An anatomical description of the more important part of the nervous system.
2. Comparisons between them and the corresponding organs ot other animals, both higher and lower in the scale.
3. The metamorphoses which they undergo, especially the spinal chord and some of the cranial nerves, showing the existence of a more complete analogy between the immature condition of Batrachian reptiles and the class of fishes, than has hitherto been noticed.
4, An application of the facts observed in connexion with the cranial nerves to the philosophical anatomy of the nervous system, showing

<<<Page: 415>>>

S. Mis. 53. 17
what is believed to be the true nature of the special sense nerves, as contrasted with other cranial or the true spinal nerves, ” the conformity of the other cranial nerves to the common spinal t
The next communication has the following title : OPlante Wrightiane T'exano, Neo Mexicano, Bart 2. By Ue Asa Gray, Professor of Botany in Harvard University.”
It has been stated in two of the preceding reports that a small appropriation was made for botanical explorations in Texas and New Mexico, and that the results had been placed 1 in the hands of Dr. Gray for scientific investigation. The first memoir on this subject was described in the last report. It has been printed, and copies distributed to all the working botanists in this country and Europe. It also forms a part of the third volume of the ‘* Smithsonian Contributions.”
The object of the present memoir is to give a scientific account of the collections made by Mr. Wright, under the direction of Col. J. D. Graham, U. 8. Top: ygraphic al Engineers, and Major W. H. Emory, of the Boundary Commission, in New Mexico and in Eastern Texas, during the summer and autumn of 1851, and the spring and early part of the summer of 1852
The description of the pli ie from this region was previously carried as far as the order composite. In the present paper, Dr. Gray g elves a similar account of the recent collections up to the same point, ane reserves the other portions of these collections made by Mr. Wright, with the remainder of the undescribed plants of Fendler and Lindheimer, to be described ina general memoir. One portion of the collection was made from July to November, from El Paso to the Copper Mines of Santa Rita del Cobre, in the southwestern part of New Mexico; and thence into the northern part of the Mexican State of Sonora, as far as Santa Cruz, returning to the Copper Mines by way of Guadalupe Pass, and thence bac Kk to El Paso. The plants obtained during this tour are of exceeding inte GESis and comprise a larger portion of new species than any other collection that has fallen into Dr. Gray’s hands. Another portion was obtained in the vicinity of El Paso and the rancho of Frontera, and down the Rio Grande for sixty or sevent miles; also, up the valley of the river as far as Camp Fillmore, and thence into nes Orange mountains, which bound the valley on the east. _ Another collection was made ina hasty excursion to Lake St. Marieand Lake Gustman, in Chihuahua. These several collections afford many noveltics; no botanist having previously explored this region at the ai same season of the year.
It is expected that a full account of the topography and productions of this country will be given in the reports of Colonel Graham and Major Emory.
The interest which attaches to the results of explorations of this kind is not confined to the botanist, but extends to the physical geographer and the political economist. An accurate description of the botany of a region is a sure guide to a knowledge of its power of producing and sustaining vegetable and animal lite, and consequently of its value in a commercial and political point of view.
Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, has presented a memoir on. the extinct

<<<Page: 416>>>

18 S. Mis. 53.
species of the ox of America. Jn this paper he indicates the former existence of four species of the ox which were probably cotemporaneous with the Mastodon and the Megalonyx. Fossil remains of these animals have been frequently found in the United States, and descriptions of them are scattered through various works; but no approach has before been made to a correct view of the number and character of the species. The present existing species of ox are found indigenous in every part of the world except South America and Australia, and this is the more remarkable because the domestic ox mtroduced into the former country by Europeans exists in immense herds on the pampas ina wild state. There is a similar fact with regard to the horse. America at the period of its discovery possessed no indigenous quadruped of this kind, though the climate is highly favorable to its existence, and the remains of two extinct species are frequently found. Two of the species of ox described by Dr. Leidy belong to the genus Bison, and one of these is of gigantic size. ‘The other two species belong to a new genus called Bootherium.
Another memoir presented by the same author forms an interesting addition to our knowledge of the extinct gigantic sloth tribe of North America. It comprises a description of remains of the Megalonya,
~ Mylodon, Mevatherium, and of a new genus called Eriptodon. y S g hE
The scientific world is indebted for the first account of the remains of a large extinct quadruped of the sloth tribe to President Jefferson. Fragments of the bones of this animal were found in a saltpetre cave in Greenbrier county, Virginia. They were regarded with little or no interest by the persons who first observed them; and as they encumbered the saltpetre bed, would probably have been thrown out and suffered to decay, had not the news of their existence reached the ears of the distinguished individual before mentioned. Though de-voted to politics, he was too much of a philosopher not to see in these mouldering fragments of a skeleton, objects of high interest connected with the past history of our globe. He described them in a memoir
ublished in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia’ in 1797, and gave to the animal to which they belong the name of Megalonyx, or the great claw. The materials, however, in his possession were too scanty to allow of his determining the true character of the quadruped. Dr. Wistar, of Philadelphia, suspected the animal to have been a gigantic sloth; and this was confirmed by Cuvier, from the ample materials for comparison at his command. The original bones described by Jefferson were preserved in the collection of the Philosophical Society; but besides these, Dr. Leidy had access to specimens of the remains of the same animal, found in different parts of the United States. From the study of these he has been enabled to throw much additional light upon the characters of the Megalonyx. He considers that the only remains yet known are confined to those found in the United States, and satisfactorily proves that the lower jaw of an extinct quadruped discovered by Dr. Darwin in South America, and referred by naturalists to the Megalonyx of Jef erson, does not belong to an animal of the same genus.
The remains of the Mylodon, or gigantic sloth, were first discovered by Darwin in his researches in the southern part of South America.

<<<Page: 417>>>

| S. Mis. 53. 19
Remains of another species found in North America were described by Dr. Harlan, but were erroneously referred to the Megalonys. Dr. Leidy, i in his memoir, describes the collection of the remains of this animal belonging to the New York ehh
The Megatherium, which is the largest of all the extinct sloth tribe, when full grown, was more than fourtec on feet long, meluding the tail, and eight feet high. It was first discovered in South America, but has since been found i in Georgia; and it was from this locality, the only one in the United States yet known, that the remains described by Dr. Leidy were obtained.
The fourth and new genus of American sloths, called the Eriptodon by the author, is es yale shed upon a peculi ur form of teeth which belonged to an animal of about the size of the Megalonyx, the bones of which were also found in Georgia.
Dr. Hays, one of the commission to which this memoir was submitted, remarks in his report, that “the author has not only made valuable additions to our knowledge of an interesting tribe of animals, but has also collected and arranged the facts prev iously known so as to throw new light on the su bject, and to render his memoir an important starting point for future investigators.”
Grammar of the Choctaw language——The publication of the volume — on the Dakota language, described in the last report, has called forth another important memoir on comparative philology, namely, a grammar of the Choctaw language, by the Rev. Harvey Byington, for ‘thirty years a missionary among the Indians.
It was referred for erammnoton to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, and to Professor Gibbs, of Yale College, both of whom pronounc sal it an important addition to ethnology, and warmly recommended its publication. 'The work was afterwards placed in the hands of Professor W. W. Turner, formerly Professor of Hebrew in the New York Theological Seminary, now librarian of the United States Patent Office. Previous to sending it to the press, the author, after numerous interviews with Professor Turner, concluded that his memoir was susceptible of so much improvement by a further study of the language, that he asked leave to withdraw it for a time. ‘This request was of course granted, and Mr. Byington has returned to his missionary labors, and will again present the work atter it has received the desired i improvements
~ Reports and other minor publications—Since the date of the last re-
port to the Regents, the following articles have been printed and partially disttibute di’:
1. Directions for making collections in natural history. This is a pamphlet of twenty-four pages, by Professor Baird, and is much called tor by the correspondents of the Institution.
2. A work by Professor Jewett, containing an exposition of the system adopted by the Smithsonian Institution for constructing catalogues of libraries, by means of separate stereotype titles, with rules for the guidance of librarians, and examples for illustration. This work is comprised in seventy-eight pages, and though not large, it has been produced at the expense of much time and labor. °
3. A second emission of the report on the recent improvements in the chemical arts has been printed, and in part distributed. This work

<<<Page: 418>>>

207 S. Mis. 53.
is stereotyped, and therefore copies can be supplied at any time, at a comparatively small cost.
4, A description of the portraits of the North American Indians in the gallery of the Smithsonian Institution, by the painter of the portraits, J. M. Stanley, esq. This is a pamphlet of seventy-six pages, and contains brief sketches of the characters and incidents in the history of forty-three different tribes of Indians. |
5. The first part of the collection of tables to facilitate meteorological and other calculations, by Professor Guyot: this was mentioned in the last report, and has esa stereotyped and distributed. It is a very acceptable present to the meteorological observers of the Institution, and other persons engaged in scientific investigations.
Several reports on different subjects are in progress of preparation; but the appropriation for this part of the programme of operations is at present so small, that the completion of them has not been urged upon the authors. The first part of the report on forest trees, by Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, will be ready for the press the latter part of the present or beginning of the next year.
Distribution of publications and exchanges.—Copies of the Smithsonian
Contributions to knowledge are sent to all the first-class libraries and
literary and scientific societies of the world, and in return the Institution receives an equivalent in Transactions and other publications. After the printing of the first volume of Contributions was completed, a copy of it and of the programme of organization were sent to the principal foreign literary and scientific institutions, with the request that they would exchange publications, on the condition that a volume of equal importance should be presented to them annually. At first the number of responses to this proposition was small; but since the character of the Institution has become known and appreciated, the works received in exchange have rapidly increased in number and importance. The whole number of articles received durmg 1852 is four thousand seven hundred and forty-four, which is more than three times that of all the previous years. The publications received in many cases consist of entire sets of Transactions, the earlier volumes of which are out of print, and cannot be purchased. They are of use in carrying on the various investigations of the Institution, and of value to the country as works of reference. They ought not to be considered donations to the library, but the products of the active operations, which the Institution is at liberty to dispose of in the manner best suited to further its designs. The principal object, however, of the distribution of the Smithsonian volumes, is not to procure a large library in exchange, but to diffuse among men a knowiedge of the new truths discovered by the agency of the Smithsonian fund. The worth and importance of the Institution is not to be estimated by what it accumulates within the walls of its building, but by what it sends forth to the world. Its great mission is to facilitate the use of implements of research, and to diffuse the knowledge which this use may develop. The Smithsonian publications are sent to some institutions abroad, and to the greater majority of those at home, without, any return except, in some cases, that of co-operation in meteorological and other observations. Applications for these publications have now become so nv-

<<<Page: 419>>>

S. Mis. 53. 21
merous that the edition printed will supply but a part of the demand, and it becomes a difficult matter to select the places which will Beet subserve the object of rendering them accessible to the greatest number of persons who would be be nefited by their perusal.
In connexion with the distribution of its own publications, the Institution has adopted an arrangement to promote and es tablish a more general exchange of literary and _ scientific productions between this and other countries. For this purpose it receives packages from societies and individuals in the different parts of the United States, and transmits them to England or the continent, and through its agents distributes them to the parties for whom they are intended. It also receives the articles sent in return, and forwards them to those to whom they are addressed. To facilitate this operation, the packages to the Institution are addressed to the collector’ of customs in New York, and by him, on the certificate of the Secretary, admitted free of duty, and without the del: iy of an examination.
Tn carrying out this plan, the Institution is much indebted to the liberal course adopted by the government of Great Britain, and to the ready co-operation of the Royal Society of London. All packages intended for Great Britain, for some parts of the continent, and the East Indies, are directed to the care of the Royal Society, and on the certificate of its president are, by a special order of the government, admitted duty free, and without the delay and risk of inspection. The packages are afterwards distributed by the agent of the Institution, or by those of the society.
This system of exchange does not stop here. The Royal Society has adopted the same plan with reference to Great Britain, and all other parts of the world; and the Smithsonian Institution, in turn, becomes an agent in receiving and distributing all packages the society desires to send to this country. A general system of international communication, first started by the Institution for the distribution of its own publications, has thus been established, which will tend to render the results of the labors of each country in the line of literature and science common to all, and to produce a community of interest and of relations of the highest importanc e to the advance of-knowledge, and of kindly feeling “ among me n.?
The results of the operations of the system of foreign exchanges during the year 1852, are exceedingly | gratifying. The whole number of packages sent out, including the S milisonien publications, is 572 containing 9,195 articles, and w -eighing 9, 855 pounds. There have ee received, i in addition to the 4 745 artic ‘les for this Institution, 637 packages, containing an hice number of volumes, for other institutions in this country. The details of the business of the exchanges are intrusted to Professor Baird, and I would refer, for a particular statement of all the facts connected with it, to his report, herewith submitted.
The planet Neptune.-—It has been mentioned in the last annual reports that Mr. S. C. Walker, of the U. 8. Coast Survey, prepared, at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, a memoir containing an exposition of the elements of the true orvit of the planet eee and that from this orbit and the mathematical investigation of Professor Pierce

<<<Page: 420>>>

22 S. Mis. 53.
of Cambridge, an ephemeris of Neptune had been deduced, which has been accepted by all the astronomers of the world, as the only certain guide to the position of the planet. ‘This ephemeris was prepared for 1848 and 1849, at the expense of the Institution; but since the last mentioned date it has been calculated at the expense of the appropriation for the Nautical Almanac, while the cost of printing and distribution has been defrayed by the Institution. The same arrangement will continue tor the ephemeris of 1853 and 1854, after which the whole will be turned over to the Nautical Almanac.
Occultations—The moon in her passage eastward around the earth continually passes between us and the fixed stars or planets which le in her path, and obscures them from our view. ‘The mstant of the disappearance of a star behind the moon, or the occultation of a star, as the phenomenon is called, can be noted by observers widely separated from each other, and hence this phenomenon becomes a ready means of determining the difference of longitude between two places. The employment of occultations for fixing geographical positions is easy, and leads to accuracy in the results. The telescope may be of moderate size, and requires no accurate adjustment; the position assigned it may be such as to suit the convenience of the observer. The frequent occurrence of occultations renders the use of them of great importance to the travelling observer, and the publication of lists of these, and of tables for their reduction, is essential to the improvement of geography. They are of particular value in this country on account of the frequent exploring and surveying expeditions now carried on by our government and our people, and to be continued for an indefinite time in the extensive territory of the West and the newly acquired possessions of the Southwest. Tables of occultations were prepared and published at the expense of this Institution for 1849 and 1850, but for subsequent years the expense of their preparation has been defrayed by the appropriation for the Nautical Almanac, under the direction of Lieut. Davis, while the composition and press-work is still at the expense of the Institution. As soon as the Nautical Almanac is fully commenced, the publication of these tables will be entirely relinquished to this enterprise of the government.
Up to 1850 the tables published were of occultations visible in the United States. Since, however, the preparation of the tables has been in charge of the director of the Nautical Almanac, the list has been so extended as to make it useful to geographers in general as well as to those of the United States. This extension was rendered important on account of the surveys undertaken by our government in other parts of the globe. Also, a table has been added, giving the correction of the latitude due to the oblate spheroidal figure of the earth.
When we consider the character and condition of the vast continent of North America, which it belongs to us chiefly to reduce to a habitable and civilized state, we shall perceive that the practical scientific explorer has no higher duty than to settle the geography, the magnetism, the natural history, and the climate of these regions.
Researches.—At the session of the Regents in 1849, an appropriation was made to supply Lieutenant Gilliss with a telescope for his expedition to Chili, to aid him in his observations, for a new determination

<<<Page: 421>>>

S. Mis. 53. 23
of the distance of the inferior planets, and, consequently, of the actual distances of the several members of the solar system. A subsequent appropriation was made for the purchase of an astronomical clock for the same purpose. The first appropriation was repaid to the Institution by a grant from ee to cover the expenses of the expedition, and the second will alse be reimbursed by the purchase of the clock and all the other instruments by the C hilian government, for the permanent establishment of an observatory in that country.
By these operations, the Institution has been the means of rendering essential aid to science, without, in the end, diminishing the amount ori its income. Lieutenant Gilliss, after volunt: irily exiling himself from his family and his country for four years, has returned with a rich harvest of materials in astronomy, met teorology, magnetism, and natural history, in the reduction, generalization, and description of which the Institution may also furnish important aid.
The sum of one hundred and fifty dollars has been advanced to Prof. C. B. Adams, of Amherst College, to defray in part the expense of an exploration of the molluscs of the West Indies. This subject is intimately connected with the geological changes which have taken place on the surface of our globe ; sand it was particularly with reference to this point that Prof. Adams has undertaken these researches. This is his second expedition to the same regions; and in both instances the Smithsonian Institution has seconded his proposition, and warmly recommended it to the favorable consideration of the trustees of Amherst College. A small sum appropriated in this way, though not enough in reel to produce much effect, is still sufficient to complete the pmount to be raised, and thus serve to determine the commencement of the enterprise.
Meteorology.—The general system of observations relative to the meteorology of the continent of North America, described in the previous reports, has been continued and extended. It consists at present of the following classes, viz:
, 1. The Smithsonian system proper, made up of voluntary observers in different parts of the United States, who report immediately to the Institution.
2. The system of observations of the University of the State of New York, re-established under the direction of this Institution, and ‘supported by the State of New York.
3. The system of observations instituted under the direction of this Institution, by the State of Massachusetts.
4. The extended system of observations made at the several military posts of the United States, under the direction of the Surgeon General of the army.
5. Separate series of observations by exploring and sur veying parties, in some cases directed, and in part furnished with instruments, by this Institution.
6. Meteorological records from British America, consisting of observations made at the various posts of the Hudson’s Bay Company , and at the residence of private individuals in Canada.
In the first three of these classes there are about two, hundred observers distributed over the entire continent. In the older States they

<<<Page: 422>>>

24 S. Mis. 53.
are very thickly distributed, and they are entirely wanting in none. Texas, Arkansas, Indian Territory, Missouri, lowa, and Minnesota, have each competent and reliable observers reporting directly to the Smithsonian Institution, in addition to those at the military posts, which are in the same regions.
Farther westward, and more widely separated, the observers at the military posts, and those of surveying and exploring parties, continue the connexion of the system to the Pacific coast, where the number of military posts is greater, and private observers are again found.
The New York system embraces twenty-five academies as stations, furnished with new and reliable instruments at the expense of the State.
In Massachusetts twelve sattions are furnished in like manner, of which eight have reported.
In 1852 ninety-seven military posts reported meteorological observations, and for 1853 the number will be greater rather than less.
The whole number of stations and observers available in making the deductions for 1852 was three hundred and fifty; and this number, either reporting directly to the Institution or furnishing their observations for its use, may be relied upon for the current year.
Besides the observations derived from this general system, a large collection has been procured from individuals in different parts of the country, who have kept records of the weather, in some cases for many years. ‘I'his collection was obtained by issuing a circular from the Institution, requesting copies of any records which might have been kept relative to the climate of this country. The amount of information received in answer to this circular was far greater than was expected, and much more valuable matter was thus called forth than was previously known to exist.
In order that the materials procured from the aforementioned sources may be rendered available for scientific or practical purposes, it is necessary that they should be reduced, discussed, and arranged for publication. This work was commenced at the close of 1851, and has been prosecuted with considerable vigor during the past year. It was given by me in charge to Mr. Lorin Blodget, of western New York, who has engaged in the work with much ardor, has devoted to it his whole time and attention, and evinced an unusual degree of talents for investigations of this character.
The results which have thus far been obtained are of interest to the science of meteorology, and valuable to the practical arts of life. The following is a descriptive list of the deductions presented in a tabular form:
Temperature Tables.
1. Tables of general mean temperature for a series of years, embracing a summary of the annual means for the years 1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852, with a general summary of reliable observations of mean temperature on the North American continent.
2. Tables of mean temperature for each month, season, and year, for 1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852, embracing 273 stations in 1849; 284 in 1850; 300 in 1851; and 396 in 1852.

<<<Page: 423>>>

S. Mis. 53. 25
3. Tables of mean temperature at each observed hour for the same periods and the same stations.
4. ‘Tables of the monthly extremes of temperature, with the range above and below the monthly mean, for the same periods and the same stations.
5. Collection of tables of temperature at different stations, observed for a series of years.
6. Miscellaneous tables of temperature, not conforming entirely to either of the above divisions.
The first class of tables embraces six hundred and seventy stations, distributed over the entire continent, from the West’ Indies and Mexico to the Polar seas.
The second class has a more limited range, and is generally confined to the United States and its territories, as observed by the military system, and that of the Smithsonian Institution, with a few stations in Canada and the British possessions on this continent.
The third class of tables is nearly the same in extent with the preceding, and for three complete years—1850, 1851, and 1852.
The fourth class is of the same extent and time.
The fifth is a climatic arrangement of tables from various stations, extending in continuous series over periods varying from five to sixty years.
Tables of Precipitation.
1. Tables of distribution of precipitation in rain and melted snow for each month, season, and year, for 1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852.
2. General tables of precipitation for a series of years, containing the results of the preceding tables, with a general summary of all reliable and accessible observations of fall of rain on the North American continent. These tables give results from about four hundred stations, principally in the United States, its Territories, and the West Indies.
3. Irregular tables and single series, extending over long periods, and where reliable observations have been made.
A series of charts has been constructed to exhibit the distribution of temperature on the North American continent, by isothermal lines ; and also another series, illustrative of the distribution of precipitation for each month, season, and year of 1850, 1851, and 1852, and. for the periods given in the general tables. It is proposed to present these results to Congress as a part of the annual report of the Regents, and as the first fruit of the labors of the Smithsonian Institution on the subject of meteorology.
Catalogue of Libraries —In addition to the preparation of the work previously mentioned, Professor Jewett has continued his experiments on the new process of stereotyping, to be used in his system of cataloguing. Much difficulty and delay have been experienced in the prosecution of these experiments, on account of the want ot workmen to construct the pecuhar apparatus required. ‘The services of an ingenious and skilful artisan have, however, been secured, and the process 1s now brought to such a state of completeness that it can be applied

<<<Page: 424>>>

26 S Mis. 58.
with certainty, and abridgment of labor, to produce the best specimens of typography.
The system of catalogues described in previous reports, though future experience may suggest other improvements, is now apparently perfect in all its details. A stereotyping office has been established in the basement of the west wing of the Smithsonian building, and the Institution is ready to commence the formation of a general catalogue of the principal libraries of the United States. The commission to which the catalogue system was referred, recommended that measures be taken to procure the preparation and printing of the catalogue of the Library of Congress. The cost of the first collection of stereotype titles can be best borne by this library, and it will be the first to reap the benefit of this invention. The stereotype blocks of the titles can be preserved in the Institution, and a new catalogue annually furnished at a small expense, with all the additions inserted in their proper places. The same titles will be employed in printing the catalogues of other libraries, and the new titles which may be prepared for these will, in turn, be used for the Library of Congress.
I beg leave to commend this subject to the immediate consideration of the Board of Regents. The whole plan is in perfect harmony with the active operations, and has always received my cordial commendation. The Institution has incurred the expense of reducing it to praetice so far as it depends on mechanical arrangements, and it now only requires to be applied, to realize all the benefits which have been anticipated in regard to it, to do honor to the Institution and to confer deserved reputation on its author.*
Library.—During the last year the library has received important additions from the books presented in exchange for the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions and other publications. The whole value of the works thus received during the year, according to the estimate of Professor Baird, is not less than from four to five thousand dollars. From this source alone a highly interesting and valuable collection of books, pertaining to all branches of positive knowledge, will, in time, be obtained. The reputation which the publications of the Institution have given it abroad, has induced individuals to present quite a number of valuable works to the library. For an account of the whole, I must refer to the report of Prof. Jewett, herewith submitted. The library has also been increased by the purchase of such books as were required in the operations of the Institution, and with a series of scientific and other periodicals.
The copyright law is still in existence, and the library has received, during the past year, the usual number of articles from this source. The remark, however, may again be made with truth, that the action of this law, as it now exists, imposes a burden on the Institution from which it should be relieved.
The whole number of articles, according to the report of Professor Jewett, now in the library, is twenty-one thousand seven hundred.
*Nore.—Since this report was presented to the Board of Regents, Congress has appropriated three thousand dollars to commence the catalogue of its library on the stereotype plan, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 425>>>

S. Mis. 53. 27
Museum of Natural Histury.—The additions to the collection in natural history, under the persevering efforts of Professor Baird, have increased in a compound ratio over those of previous years. Large additions will also be made by the exploring expeditions which are about to leave for the different parts of this continent and distant seas, but the expense of preparing and transporting these, it is hoped will be defrayed by the general government. For 2 detailed account of the number and variety of the specimens collected, I must refer to Professor Baird’s report accompanying this communication.
Gallery of Art—bBesides a library, a museum, and lectures, the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution directed the formation of a gallery of art. The only articles belonging to the Institution which have been yet collected, in accordance with the last-mentioned regulation of Congress, are the valuable series of engravings by the old masters, described in a previous report. One of the original propositions of the programme is that of encouraging art, by providing a suitable room for the exhibition of pictures free of expense to the artist. In accordance with this, the large room in the west wing will be devoted to this purpose. It now contains a very interesting series of portraits, mostly full-size, of one hundred and fifty-two North American Indians, with sketches of the scenery of the country they inhabit, deposited by the artist who painted them, Mr. J. M. Stanley. These portraits were all taken from life, and are accurate representations of the peculiar features of prominent individuals of forty-three different tribes, inhabiting the southwestern prairies, New Mexico, California, and Oregon. The faithfulness of the likenesses has been attested by a number of intelligent persons who have visited the gallery, and have immediately recognised among the portraits those of the individuals with whom they have been personally acquainted. The author devoted to the work of obtaining these pictures ten years of his life, and perseveringly devoted himself to his task in the face of difficulties and dangers which enthusiasm in the pursuit could alone enable him to encounter. The Institution has published a descriptive catalogue of these portraits, which are of interest to the ethnologist as representatives of the peculiar physiognomy, as well as of many of the customs, of the natives of this continent.
Lectures of the Institution —Public lectures have become one of the characteristics of the day, and next to the press, perhaps, tend more than any other means of diffusing knowledge, to impress the public mind. The liberal price paid by the Lowell Institute, and some of the associations in our large cities, induces men of reputation to devote themselves to the preparation of popular lectures. In some parts of the country a number of adjacent cities or villages enter into an arrangement by which the same lecture may be repeated, in succession, at each place; and in this way the amount paid becomes sufficient to call forth the best talent. A plan of this kind has been adopted by the Athensam of Richmond, Virginia, with reference to the lectures before the Smithsonian Institution, -the effect of which has been mutually beneficial. Popular lectures appear better adapted to present literary and historical facts, and to give information relative to subjects of art and of morals, than to impart knowledge of scientific principles. These

<<<Page: 426>>>

28 S. Mis. 53.
require more attention and continuous thought than can be generally expected from a promiscuous audience. Hence the scientific lecturer frequently aims at a brilliant display of experimeuts, rather than to impress the mind with general principles.
Local lectures are too limited in their influence to meet a liberal interpretation of the will of Smithson; yet they were ordered by Congress, and are calculated to do more good in this city than in any other part of the Union.
Tn selecting lecturers the consideration of mere popular effect has not been regarded. The persons chosen have been such as to give weight to the lecture, and to reflect credit on the Institution. The object has been to give instruction rather than amusement—to improve the public taste, rather than to elicit popular applause. The Institution, to be respected, must maintain a dignified character, and seek rather to direct public opinion than to obtain popularity by an opposite course.
The moral effect which the lectures have on the city of Washington cannot be otherwise than beneficial. When the weather will permit, the room is every evening crowded before the hour of commencement with an intelligent audience. The lecturers have generally been persons from a distance, who have expressed surprise to find such a large and respectful attendance in a city which is commonly thought to be exclusively devoted to politics and amusement. ‘The plan of inviting gentlemen of reputation and influence from a distance renders the Smithsonian operations familiar to those best qualified to appreciate their value, and best able to give a correct account of the character of the Institution in their own districts of country, as well as to vindicate its claims to the confidence and friendly regard of the public. The results of this course, and the distribution of the volumes of Contributions to colleges and other institutions, it is hoped, will so establish the Institution in the good opinion of the intelligent and influential part of the community, that it may bid defiance to the assaults of those who are ignorant of its true character, or are disappointed. in not sharing its honors without the talents or the industry to win them.
The following is a list of the titles of lectures given during the last session of Congress, with the names of the gentlemen by whom they were delivered :
A course of three lectures by Dr. E. K. Kane, U.S. N., on Arctic exploration.
A course of three lectures by President Mark Hopkins, of Williams College, on method applied to investigation.
A course of four lectures by Prot. W. B. Rogers, of the University of Virginia, on the phases of the atmosphere.
A course of twelve lectures by Dr. Benjamin Silliman, sr., of Yale College, on geology.
A course of two lectures by Prof. C. C. Felton, of Harvard University, on Greek literature.
One lecture by Job R. Tyson, esq., of Philadelphia: Queen Elizabeth and Oliver Cromwell, their characters and times, contrasted and compared, a

<<<Page: 427>>>

S. Mis. 53. Se
A course of six lectures by Dr. B. A. Gould, jr., of Cambridge, on the recent progress of astronomy.
A course of six lectures by Prof. Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, on the foundation of symmetry in the animal kingdom.
A course of six lectures by Prof. B. Silliman, j jr., on the four ancient elements—earth, air, fire, and water.
Omitted from previous report: A course of twelve lectures by Dr. Henry Goadby, on the structure and functions of insects.
In the last report to the Regents, some general remarks were made relative to the library and museum, and n¢ othing has since occurred to change the opinions then expressed; on the contrary, the experience of another year has tended to confirm these opinions, and to clearly exhibit the fact that it will be impossible to continue with the present income some of the most important operations, and rigidly adhere to’ the resolution of the Regents of 1847, to devote one half of the whole income to the library and museum, besides all the expenditures still required on thebuilding for the accommodation of these objects. By a reference to the annual re ports of the Executive Committee, it will be seen that the general incidental expenses have continually increased from year to year, and it is evident that they must continue to increase in a geometrical ratio, on account of the greater repairs which, in time, will be required on the building. After deducting from the income the cost of repairs, lighting, and heating ; of messenger, attendants, and watchmen; of stationery, transportation, and postage; after dividing the remainder by two, and deducting from the quotient the expense of the public lectures, the final sum to be devoted to the most important, and, indeed, the only legitimate object of the bequest, is exceedingly small.
The attempt has, however, been made in good faith to carry out the resolution of February, 1847; and if items ~ which may properly be charged to the library and collections were added to this side of the account, the balance up to the present date would be in favor of the active operations. But the plan has not been found to work well in practice. The income is too sm all to properly support more than one system of operations, and therefore the attempt to establish and sustain three departments, with separate ends and separate interests, must lead to inharmonious action, and conseque ntly to diminished usefulness.
However proper such a division of the income might have been in the beginning, in order to harmonize conflicting opinions, and to submit with proper caution the several proposed sc hemes to a judicious trial, the same considerations do not now exist for its continuance ; changes have since occurred which materially alter the conditions on which the resolution was founded. The plan of active operations was not at first fully understood even by the literary men of the country. It was considered chimerical, and ine apable of: being continued for any length of time; and hence it was thought import: ant to provide for the means of falling back upon a library and collections. ‘The experie nce of six years has, however, established its practic ability and importance, and
it is now considered by the great majority of intelligent persons who have studied the subject the only direct means of realizing the

<<<Page: 428>>>

30 S. Mis. 53.
intention of the donor. Again: the building was to have been finished in five years, and the income after this was to be increased by the interest on the remaining surplus fund; but the Regents have found it necessary for the better security of the library and museum to add fifty thousand dollars to the cost of the edifice; and ten years will have elapsed from the beginning, instead of five, before any income from the surplus fund will be available. This additional expense is not incurred for the active operations, and the question may be asked whether they ought to bear any part of this additional burden. Furthermore, at the time the division was made, it was thought obligatory on the part of the Institution to support the great museum of the exploring expedition ; but the Regents have since concluded that it is not advisable to take charge of this collection; and Congress, by its appropriation for the enlargement of the Patent Office, concurred in the opinion expressed in the Senate by the Hon. Jefferson Davis, that it was a gift which ought not to be pressed upon the Institution. The inquiry may also, in this case, be made whether it is advisable in the present state of the funds, and the wants of the active operations, to expend any considerable portion of the income in the reproduction of a collection of objects of nature and art. Again: the active operations are procuring annually for the library, by exchange, a large number of valuable beoks, which, in time, of themselves will form a rare and valuable collection, and even if the division of the income is to be continued, a sum equal in amount to the price of these books ought to be charged
to the library, and an equal amount credited to the active operations.
Though a large library connected with the Institution would be valuable in itself; and convenient to those who are in the immediate vicinity of the Smithsonian building, yet, as has been said before, it is not essentially necessary to the active operations. It would be of comparatively little importance to the greater number of the co-laborers of the Institution, who are found in every part of the United States, and are not confinedeven to these limits. The author of the great work on the American Algee, now publishing in the Smithsonian Contributions, is a resident member of Trinity College, Dublin; and but few of the authors of the Smithsonian memoirs reside in Washington. The libraries, therefore, of the whole country, and in some cases of other countries, are at the service of the Institution, and employed for its purposes.
Similar remarks apply to the museum. It is not the intention of the Institution to attempt to examine and describe within the walls of its own building all the objects which may be referred to it. To accomplish this, a corps of naturalists, each learned in his own branch, would be required, at an expense which the whole income would be inadequate to meet. In the present state of knowledge, that profound attainment necessary to advance science can only be made by an individual, however gifted, but in one or two narrow lines ; and hence a number of members are required to complete a single class in any of the learned academies of Europe; and therefore the plan which was once proposed, of establishing on the Smithsonian fund an academy of associated members, was entirely incompatible with the limited income of the Institution. 'The more feasible and far less —

<<<Page: 429>>>

S. Mis. 53. al
expensive organization was adopted, of referring all scientific questions of importance, as well as objects of natural history, for investigation to persons of reputation and Weatiae in different parts of the United States, and perhaps, in some cases, in foreign countries. By the operation of this plan, which has been found eminently practicable, the collections, as well as the libraries of the whole country, are rendered subservient to the use of the Institution.
There can be but little doubt that, in due time, ample provision will be made for a library and museum at the capital of this Union worthy of a government whose perpetuity depends upon the virtue and intelligence of the people. It is, therefore, unwise to hamper the more important objects of this Institution, by attempting to anticipate results which will be eventually produced without the expenditure of its means.
The prominent idea embraced in the Smithsonian organization, 1s that of codperation and concerted action with all institutions and individuals engaged in the ee of knowledge. Its design is not to
monopolize. any part of the wide fields of nature or of art, but to invite -
all to partake in the pleasure and honor of their cultivation. It seeks not to encroach upon ground occupied by other institutions, but to expend the funds in doing that which cannot be as well done by other
means. It gives to ihe words of Smithson their most liberal interpretation, and “increases and diffuse knowledge among men” by pro-
moting the discovery of new truths, and by disseminating these in —
every “part of the civilized world. Respectfully submitted, JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonran Tisiiuiian:

<<<Page: 430>>>

32 S. Mis. 53.
To the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution:
Sir: The following table exhibits the number of books and other articles added to the library during the year 1852, with the sources from which they have been received :
. Es g Sp ino pe ales! — & | & | Totals
eve a | € jee | eae
° | 12 op = z 3 =
=) 3s as a S = um ~
ca) A 4 4 = A Q fo) By purchase..-..-----G41) (OTSA ESGS Pee sa |os col tere ereei ieee See 3,127
By exchanges and dona-
Ot 5 33 SBM ees enee 1,481 | 1,935] 171 107) 12698) Bese eee ae 41 5,336 Byacopycight, ci s.ce< 476 96 26 15 10| 692 9 19 1,343 Motal seo ici on == 2,598 | 2,949 | 1,765 25 | 1,708] 692 9 60 9,806
The present extent of the various collections in the library is shown by the following table :
é ; = a ; op = | Totals. a = wo = a I — a 3 Bal aes Bb ag eta |oe eS) S x a cy q re) = Ay x = a a A o) Byapurchase. 2 s2.-\4-.3,873 |, 957/11,568 | 1,335 2) gaa seal eer cin eee W5600 By exchanges and dona-
HOM ee = wel os cetera 2,657 | 3,872 | 171 5S Wl 25)| Peat 30 A} 8,554 By copyright. ./.--..... 2,304 | 213 26 24 51 | 1,826 9 86 4,539 WpqGeporit....ci. ce. (| |Gaoo7 5|lboeeaS| Eaeoes becacu||sescsall-dscasieadas873
. Mobalseoelteini-= = 9,707 | 5,042 | 1,765 | 1,417 | 1,778 | 1,826 39} 127) 21,701
From these statements it will be seen that the library has nearly doubled in size during the year. Its greatest increase has been by exchange. The accessions from this source are nearly five times in number those of the preceding year. They may be considered but the first fruits of the system of scientific and literary exchange established and sustained by this Institution. They show, also, that the

<<<Page: 431>>>

S. Mis. 53. 33
benefits derivable by the library from its connexion with the system of active operations had not been over-estimated. A considerable portion of the money expended in publications returns in the shape of books for the library. These, again, are constantly increasing the efficiency and interest of the publications.
The value of the books received by exchange cannot be estimated by their numbers, or even their nominal price. They are works of the first importance to the scientific student, and which it is very difficult to procure by purchase, even with large funds at command.
The most important of the works procured by exchange are the memoirs and proceedings of learned societies. A more particular account of these is given in the report of Professor Baird. It is seldom the case that a society which has been in operation many years, is in possession of the earlier volumes of its memoirs. On this account
many of our sets are incomplete. The deficiencies can only be supplied by purchase, as opportunities may occur. Our collection of the later publications of learned societies throughout the world is by far the Inost extensive in this country, and we hope it will, before many years, be made complete.
Among other costly and important works which have been presented to the Libr: ary during the year, the following deserve to be particularly mentioned:
Vayage autour du Monde sur la corvette la Favorite, 1830—31—32, in 5 yols. Svo., with 84-maps, charts, and engravings, in folio.
Voyage autour du Monde sur la frigate la Venus, 1836-9, in 9 vols. Svo., with four atlases, in folio, of maps and illustrations.
‘oyage au Pole sud sur les corvettes L’ Astrolabe et la Zélée, 1837-40, in 17 vols. 8vo., with illustrations of scenery and natural history in 85 livraisons folio, ov a hydrographical atlas of 57 sheets.
Voyage autour du Globe de ta frégate la Thétis et de la corvette DP? Espérance, 1824-26, in 2 vols. 4to., with an atlas in folio.
These works published by the French government are superbly printed and illustrated, and are of great seine value. They were presented by the ‘“ Ministére de la Marine,” in exchange for our own
ublications sent to the brary of that department.
Gay’s Historia fisica y politica de Chile, in 14 vols. 8vo. and 1 vol. folio of plates, an elegant work of great value, has been presented by the government of “Chili, t through lieutenant J. M. Gilliss.
A donation from the Honorable East India Company, in 29 volumes, mostly in quarto, comprises grammars and dictionaries of the Mahratta, “Malaya ilim, Burmese, Murailiee, Teloogoo, Carnataca, Bengale, Sanskrit, and Hindustani languages, besides “other works of great interest to the philological student.
The Board of Admiralty of the British government have presented to the Institution 1,574 of the charts, plans, ‘and views published by order of the Lords Commissioners. This is believed to be the largest collection of them in America, and may truly be considered a munificent gift.
From several of the States of the Union we have received series of public documents, particularly from New York and Massachusetts. Nor have we been forgotten by the most distant members of the Confederacy—California, Florida, and Minnesota—to which the publications

<<<Page: 432>>>

34 S. Mis. 53.
of the Institution were previously sent. Besides donations from goyernments and from public societies, we have received from individuals many costly and valuable gifts.
To Mr. Henry Stevens and Dr. J. G. Fligel, our agents in London and Leipsic, we are indebted for a large number of books and pamphlets, presented by themselves, or by others at their instance. Among Mr. Stevens’s donations are nearly one thousand pamphlets, most of them formerly belonging to Mr. Petty Vaughn, of London. Many of these relate to American affairs, and are curious, rare, and important.
Messrs. Meissner & Richter have presented, through Dr. Fligel, a copy of Gailhabaud’s Denkmiiler der Baukunst, in 4 volumes 4to., a costly and copiously illustrated work. ‘The publishers of Pierer’s Universal Lexicon have, at the suggestion of Dr. Fligel, sent to us a copy of the new edition, in 20 volumes 8vo. It is a sufficient evidence of the merit of this work, that within six years from the completion of the first edition it has passed through three editions in Germany. It meets, better than any other work, the idea of a Universal Lexicon, to which one may resort for concise and accurate accounts of every subject in which he may be interested. Encyclopedias have been mostly devoted to elaborate treatises, rather than to brief explanations, furnishing ready answers to the thousand questions which arise in daily reading and study.
The largest and most important of the gifts which we have received from individuals is that from James Orchard Halliwell, esq., the distinguished archzeologist. This gentleman has presented to the Institution an extremely curious, interesting, and instructive collection of MS. bills, accounts, inventories, legal instruments, and other business papers, extending from 1632 to 1792, neatly arranged and handsomely bound in 54 volumes, mostly of folio size. his collection may justly be said to be unique of its kind. It is of imterest not only to the antiquary and the collector of curious relics of olden times, but as an authentic record of prices for more than 160 years it is of great value. Asa picture of the mode of life and domestic habits and expenses of English families of former generations it 1s a most instructive record. Its character cannot be better described than in the elegant letter of presentation :
AvenvE Lopes, Brixton Hints, near Lonvon, 28th October, 1852.
Sir: I have the pleasure of offering for your acceptance, for the use of the Smithsonian Institution, a collection of documents formed for the purpose of illustrating the history of prices between the years 1650 and 1750. The collection, regarded as a collection, is, 1 believe, unique in its kind, although many manuscripts of the same deseription are to be found dispersed amongst the vast stores of the British Museum and other libraries in this country. It consists of about seven thousand original papers, bound in fifty-four volumes, including bills, accounts, and inventories, respecting commercial and domestic articles of nearly every description.
It will afford me very great pleasure if the allocation of these papers at Washington prove of use at any time to the literary inquirers of

<<<Page: 433>>>

S. Mis. 53. 35,
your great nation. Without incurring the imputation of falling into the ordinary error made by cOMecters, 1 in attaching a fictitious v: ie to relics which have necessarily required the expenditure of considerable time and exertion to bring together, it may, perhaps, be allowed me to entertain a hope that faese fragments of an earlier age, now coafided to your care, may be hereafter regarded of importance in the list of materials which will some day Beet in producing a history of social progress.
Mr. Henry Stevens, F. 8. A., the agent to the Smithsonian Institution in England, has kindly undertaken to forward the collection to you on an early opportunity.
I feel sure you will excuse the liberty I am taking in addressing you on this subject ; and I have the honor to be, sir,
Your obedient, faithful servant, J. O. HALLIWELL.*
Prof. JosepH Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington.
*Since the above account was written, we have received from the munificent donor of this collection a quarto volume of one hundred and twenty pages, beautifully printed on drawing paper, with the following title:
“Some account of a collection of several thousand bills, accounts, and inventories, illustrating the history of prices between the years 1650 and 1750. Presented to the Smithsonian Institution, pesos, by James Orchard Halliwell, esq., F. R.8., Hon. M. R. 1. A, Hon. M. R. 8. L., F.S. A., ete., Brixton Hill; printed for private circulation only : 1852.”
This work } was ae at Mr. Halliwell’s expense, and is of itself a volume of great ,value and interest. Forever honored be such liberality !
The preface to this volume we quote entire:
The unique collection of commercial and domestic statistical documents—a very brief notice of which, accompanied by a few extracts to exhibit their general character, will be found in the following pages—was formed years ago with the view of assisting in the compilation of a projected work on the history of prices. That design has now been | abandoned; but the anxiety of the collector that the records thus brought together should be preserved in a permanent library for the use of future inquirers, has resulted in the presentation of them to the people of the United States, who, beyond all others, are most likely to produce a writer on the history of commerce willing to make use of materials which will strikingly illustrate the immense commercial progress the world has achieved during two centuries.
The collection includes about seven thousand separate documents, bound in fifty-four volumes, in the following order:
Vols. I to XXIX.—A collection of several thousand bills, accounts, and inventories, commencing with the year 1632, but chiefly relating to the period between the years 1660 and 1750. There are included amongst them, a considerable number of the autograph private account-books, written on small leaves in a minute hand, of Sir John Newton, Bart., of Barr's Court, Co. Gloucester. In the twenty-ninth volume are a few documents of a later date. 4to.
Vols. XXX to XXXII.—Three volumes containing undated documents, including a large proportion of early and curious tradesmen’s bills. 4to.
Vol. XXXIII.—Account-book of J. Heywood, commencing December 24, 1694. Narrow folio.
Vol. XXXTV.—“ The accounts of the Honorable John Archer, esq., from the laste ajusting of the Essex book for Coopersale, being June the 380th, 1703.” Some of these accounts are very copious. Fol.
Vol. XXX V.—A household account-book of the Archer family, 1709 to 1711. Small 4to.
Vol. XXXVI.—Account-book of a person of the name of Pelham, commencing in 1707 and extending to 1716. 4to.
Vol. XXX VIT.—< Robert Garlicke’s account in Benham farme,” commencing September
9, 1738. Fol.
Vol. XXXVIII.—A volume lettered “Estates of the Bacon family,” but pueinding various
inventories. Jol.

<<<Page: 434>>>

86 S. Mis. 53.
The number of articles received under the copyright law is somewhat larger for the last, than for the preceding year. It has increased from year to year since the organization of the Institution, although no special efforts have been made to induce publishers to comply with the law. Every book which has been received has been immediately and carefully recorded, and a certificate of deposit sent (generally by return of mail) to the depositor. The same care has been exercised for the most insignificant as for the most important; and has been dictated by a sense of justice to the publishers, inasmuch as the deposit was supposed to be essential to the perfection of their title. Had the articles thus sent been regarded merely as donations to the library, many of them might have been differently treated. Loose sheets of music, school-books, and many ‘‘ cheap publications,” might merely have been placed together in some spot where they would long have remained undisturbed. For themselves, and as parts of an imperfect collection, they were hardly worth recording. It should be particularly observed that any article, however apparently worthless, acquires value and importance as an integral part of a complete collection. A collection of all the productions of the American press would, if perfect and entire, teach lessons which could not be gleaned rom its parts.
It would show the evtent of the literary labors of the time.
— ao
Vol. XXXIX.—Accounts for laboring work done for Sir John Webb at Adstocke, 1686. Fol.
Vol. XL.—“A cash booke for moneys received and paid ffor my master, William Archer, esq., per George Burton, 1707.” Fol.
Vol. XLI.—An account-book of the Archer family, commencing in the year 1691. Narrow fol.
Vol. XLIT.—The account-book of Thomas Brook of Cold Hall, Co. Suffolk, 1718. Fol.
Vol. XLIII.—“ The accounts of my charge and all receipts for rents and other concerns for my master, the Hon. Sir John Newton, Bart., from and since the 11th of June, 1716, by me, John Richardson.” Fol.
Vol. XLIV.—“ The accounts of the Honoured Squire Archer, from my furst goeing downe into Suftolke, June the 13th, 1692, to looke after those consarns for your worship.” Fol.
Vol. XLV.—Household account-book, 1715. Ato.
Vol. XLVI.—A small account-book of Sir John Newton, commencing October, 1699. 4to.
Vol. XLVIT.—Account-book of the Rev. H. Arlington. 4to.
Vol. XLVIII.—Account-book of John French, 1653.
Vol. XLIX.—Wright’s account-book, 1676. ‘Thin 4to.
Vol. L.—Mr. Poole’s account-book from 1675 to 1679. Fol. This volume contains some eurious entries.
Vol. LI.—Private account-book of Sir John Newton, commencing in March, 1719-20. 12mo.
Vol. LII.—Memorandum-book of expenses of Antony Fowle, esq., of Goudhurst, Co. Kent, a justice of the peace, 1671, written in a copy of Lilly’s Ephemeris for that year. 12 mo.
Vol. LIIL.—A book of the accounts of the Hon. Lady Archer, from 1683 to 1689. Fol.
Vol. LIV.—The Easter-book of Campsall, Co. York, commencing in the year 1576. Small fol. This is of an earlier period than it was proposed to illustrate by this collection, but it is admitted as a specimen of more ancient accounts.
There is scarcely a branch of trade, an article of manufacture, or a produce of agriculture, the history of which is not illustrated by these papers. They are often brief; but a close examination can scarcely fail of discovering minute traces of past times in particulars for which it would be vain to search elsewhere. To say more might exaggerate the importance of the collection; to say less would be to conceal its value, which, to some extent, may be said to consist chiefly in the circumstance that the information it contains could not be yielded by the treasures of any library in the world, with the exception of those im the British Museum.
Avenue Loner, Brixton Hint, near Lonpon, 28th October, 1852.

<<<Page: 435>>>

S. Mis. 53. 37
it would show the proportionate attention to the various departments of learning.
It would show, from year to year, the increase or decrease of interest in particular pursuits.
It would show the comparative literary fertility and wealth of different portions of the country.
It would show the progressive improvements in the subsidiary arts of paper-making, binding, engraving, and so forth.
Al! these points possess interest to different classes of inquirers. The wants of all literary investigators should be respected, and, as far ag possible, supplied. The historian is not less to be provided for than the philosopher, the artist than the statesman. If we had the means, therefore, of forming a complete collection of copyright works, we would reject nothing, not even that which might to ourselves appear utterly trivial and unworthy of preservation ; ; for the article which one would reject, might, in coming times, for some reason which could not possibly have "been foreseen, possess more interest than any other in the collection.
li is impossible for any man to judge competently of the wants of future generations. It is unsafe to intrust to any one the power of rejecting works as worthless. Many enlightened contemporaries of Milton and Newton would have rejected, as worthless, the Paradise Lost and the pee Sir Thomas Bodley, the founder of the great library which bears his name—a contemporary of Sh akspeare—insisted; contrary to ce advice of his librarian, Dr. James, in excluding plays and almanacs, and most pamphlets, which he was accustomed to call “riff fan and “‘baggage-books.” The Bodleian Library is now paying very high prices for those books which then might have been procured almost without cost.
It is stated that one of the libraries in England, to which books were sent by copyright, and which was allowed to select such as were worthy to be retained, rejected, in a single year, The Antiquary ; Mrs. Opie’s novels ; one of Wordsworth’s odes, ‘and his letter to a friend of Burns; Cobbett’s publications; Jameson on Minerals, (second edition,) and the Edinburg Medical and Surgical Journal; The Siege of Corinth, and Shelley’ s Alastor; Lord Brough: im’s s Spee ch on Agricultural Distress, and McCulloch’s Essay on the N: tional Debt ; Comparative Tables of Commercial Weights ; Beethoven’s Musical Compositions, and many other similar works. (See ‘¢ Copy of a Representation from the Trustees of the British Museum to the Treasury,” March 27, 1846, page 35.)
There ought, therefore, to be in every country one complete collection of everything published—one library, where everything printed should be garnered up, and treated as of some importance; for, although in the multitude of libraries everything may be preserved somewhere, yet, from being scattered about, and from there being no one place where the student would be swre of finding all that he might seek, many books would be practically lost.
The investigator of the last half century of American history is now obliged to travel the country through to collect books and: papers for his work. Suppose that everything published in the country for the

<<<Page: 436>>>

38 S. Mis. 53.
last hundred years had been preserved in one library, had that library been in town or country, in the remote east or farthest south, it would have been the great place of resort for students of American history.
How many would already have gained among its alcoves the means of presenting to the world, in new and fresh pictures, the eventful history of our country. How many disputed and doubtful pomts would have been settled. How many errors would have been avoided. How much injustice to private character would have been silenced. How many bright examples of patriotism and devotion, now lost, would have been held up to the emulation of youth and the admiration of all.
Although these remarks go to show the importance of a complete collection somewhere, they do not show that the same rule of accepting or rejecting should be followed where it is known that the collection can never be made complete.
Every partial collection is supposed to be a selection made for some specific purpose ; and although many works, apparently very remote in their character from those chosen, may be desirable, yet, when means of procuring and preserving are limited, it may be best, it may be necessary, to confine the selection to such as are most intimately connected with the main purpose of the library.
Tt might further be a question whether, admitting the importance of a complete collection of copyright books, it should be made here.
I endeavored to show, in my last report, that it would not be practicable to collect these books im any other way than by a condition of the copyright law, enforcing the deposit somewhere.
It seems appropriate, if not necessary, that the place of deposit designated by government should be at Washington. Experience has shown that the selection of the Department of State for this purpose is inconvenient. The President of the United States, m his last message to Congress, has expressed the opinion that it would be a benefit to the public service to transfer the execution of the copyright law from the State Department. The other places of deposit would be the library of Congress, and the Smithsonian Institution. Whether the deposit be made here, or in the library of Congress, it certainly is the duty of the government to defray all expenses connected with it. It pertains to the government, is a necessary condition of the protection which the government promises to authors, and is precisely analogous to the case of the deposit of models in the Patent Office. This Institution cannot afford, at its own cost, to receive and take care of everything that is deposited. At the same time it is bound, by its position, to urge the necessity of the deposit, to show how it shou!d be regulated, and to do all that it can, without prejudice to its other interests, to secure to authors and to publishers, as well as to students and literary men, the fall advantages which the law contemplates. I accordingly proposed last year a plan which seemed to me to meet all the necessities of the case.
The general features of this plan were:
1. To dispense with the registration of title, rendering the publication of the claim of copyright the only preliminary to the vesting of the right, previous to the depositing of a copy.

<<<Page: 437>>>

S. Mis. 53. 39
2. To reduce the number of copies required for deposit from three to one.
3. To require the deposit of one copy, at the risk and expense of the proprietor of the copyright, within a reasonable time after publication.
4. To require a small fee from the proprietor, sufficient to defray the expense of furnishing certificates, keeping records, and preserving the books. This fee might be made considerably ieee than that now required of publishers, and still meet all these purposes.
Thus the trouble and expense to publishers would be greatly diminished, without devolving any burden either upon government, or the Institution receiving the deposits.
The deposit in the library of this Institution might be made of great incidental benefit to publishers and authors.
It has been proposed to issue a monthly bulletin, to contain the list of all books deposited during the preceding month. ‘This work might, under the operation of such a law a s proposed, be commenced immediately. It would be widely ed 3 in this country, and among reading “and studious men in all parts of the world. Publishers would generally be willing to pay a large price for such a medium of advertising. “But, in the case supposed, the advertisement would be incidental to the deposit, and would cost them nothing. By our system of stereotyping the titles separately, they would not only fill their place in the bulletin, but would serve for the catalogue of our own library, and of every other possessing the books and receiving from us its printed catalogue.
Various attempts have been made to make complete lists of American publications; but although some have been quite full, none have ever been complete. The best i is that of Mr. Norton, in the Literary Gazette.
It would be matter of surprise to many, and of patriotic pride to all, to know the interest with which this list is received in Europe. Buta few years have elapsed since an English review arrogantly asked, ‘ In the four quarters of the world, who reads an American book?” It would not now be more arrogant in us to demand, What citizen of the great republic of letters does not read American books ?
On the presentation of my last report, I hoped that it would be printed and distributed early in the year among publishers and authors,
that we might be able ere this time to ascertain fully their views on the subject. 7 hey are more immediately interested in the matter, and nothing should be done which would be unsatisfactory to them.
There is in this connexion another idea, which long ago occurred to me, but which I have not ventured to suggest openly, lest it should seem extravagant, and because I could see no immediate means for accomplishing the object; I mean an international copyright exchange.
If, for example, a duplicate collection of all works for which copyrights are secured in this country could be made, it might be offered to England in exchange for a like collection of its own publications ; and fig exchange, if prosperous between two countries, might be extended to all the principal nations of the book-making world. T do not propose any plan for effecting this end, nor do I kuow that it could ever be realized; but in view of what has been done by this Institution during the last year in the way of literary exchanges, such an idea is not

<<<Page: 438>>>

AO S. Mis. 53.
altogether chimerical. The advantages which would result from such an interchange would be immense. The literary and scientific labors of each country would be known in their full extent, and almost simultaneously in all other countries. Would not science advance more rapidly? Would not better justice be done to American genius?
Nothing, it seems to me, could more effectually conduce to the rapid progress of science and humanity, than a system which should make the literary and scientific labors in each country known immediately in all others.
The books gathered would, it is true, be in but one library; but books in a large public library, though chained to the shelves, are not to be shut out fromthe world. ‘They contain ideas, which entering the minds of those who have access to them, there fructify, and the fruit is scattered far and wide. Books, it is true, are silent and motionless: they seem to produce no results. But within them is the spring of all progress, the spirit which stimulates and sustains all the activity that the world of letters, of science, of politics, and of religion, manifests.
The number of books purchased during the last year is very small. The money was especially desired for the successful completion of enterprises undertaken by the department of active operations. Besides this, the rooms temporarily occupied as a place of deposit for books were, even at the beginning of the year, filled nearly to the capacity of the shelves erected, and it was thought best not to incur further expense for arrangements which could not be of permanent utility.
The selection of books for purchase has been uniformly of such as were immediately needed, not of such as might be more remotely useful. It would have been preposterous to attempt with our means the immediate formation of a universal library; though we have not ceased to cherish the hope and belief that a great library of reference and research will ultimately be gathered here.
Our expectations for the library are not limited by our immediate means of purchasing books. The history of other libraries in this country shows that any permanent and well located institution of the kind may reasonably expect accessions by donation and bequest, in proportion to the importance of its position. ‘The more conspicuous, central, and permanent the establishment, the more likely it is to attract the liberal notice of those who have valuable collections to bestow.
The location of the Smithsonian Institution at Washington, its permanent endowment, its independence of partisan and sectarian influences, the high position in the scientific world which it has already achieved by its active operations, the results of the system of exchanges of which we are now enjoying but the first fruits, together with the various means which have been adopted or suggested for aiding other libraries and advancing bibliographical objects, conspire to give prominence to the library of this Institution; and they will, before many years, render it, if not the largest and most important in the country, at least a very valuable auxiliary to our national literary progress. We expect, however, that it will increase mostly by exchanges and gifts. We may justly hope that many valuable private collections of books in particular departments of learning will be placed here, to

<<<Page: 439>>>

S. Mis. 53. Al
remain as the best monument that can be reared to commemorate the Jearning and taste as well as the liberality of their collectors.
It is not the love of acquisition or pride of possession which leads us to desire such gifts. It certamly is not the wish to withdraw them from other institutions. It is the belief that a large library of reference is likely to be formed here, and to be more generally useful here than if placed in any other city. There is no city in the Union more attractive to men of science and letters than Washington. This is principally owing to the fact that so many of the most intellectual men of the nation are gathered here, occupying its high places of trust and honor, and that here are discussed, by efateemmen and orators, questions of deepest interest to liberty and ania The attractiveness of Washington is enhanced by its genial climate, which will undoubtedly render it more and more a favorite resort. This Institution, from its location, its connexion with the government, and its own organization and opeJations, possesses opportunities for collecting certain classes of books, which 1 are of great importance in a library of reference, superior to those of any other library except that of Congress. I refer to memoirs and transactions of learned societies, publications of educational establishments, documents of the general and State governments, and of foreign governments, besides ‘many pamphlets and books, principally of local rahi iracter, published in all parts of the land.
We do not suppose that here, or anywhere, for many years to come, will be formed that complete treasury of the materials for literary pursuits which is the beau-ideal of the bibhographer; but we may, nevertheless, do all that we can (without prejudice to other interests) in the direction of this desirable end.
It is proper to remar k, in this connexion, that the chief expense of a library 1s not in the permanent custody of it when once rightly ordered. It is in the care of accessions, and the establishment of them as parts of the collection. Every book which comes into a library must be subjected to the following processes : It must be collated, to see that it is ae ct; stamped, so that it can be identified; recorded in the book which constitutes the inventory of property; located upon the shelf, and have its location marked upon it; entered in the local catalogue, which shows the books upon each shelf, and enables the librarian to "discover the title of any one that may have occupied a spot now vacant. It must also be catalogued and indexed: perhaps its receipt must be acknowledged to the donor; ; and it may require to be marked for bindig. It-is “this work upon all accessions, which is repeated for every pamphlet and every article—the work of organizing a library, together with that of selecting books and directing purchases—which Coneciutes the appropriate work of the librarian.
This work once well done, the library, if it is to remain stationary, may puss from the hands of the librarian or collector and organizer, to those of the mere custodian or guard, who protects the books from depredation and injury, and answers the calls of those who consult them. These are inexpensive labors. One man of common intelligence
a library thus perfectly organized, and receiving no accessions, would be sufficient to take charge of a hundred thousand yolumes or more, and serve a large number of readers.

<<<Page: 440>>>

42 S. Mis. 53.
I dwell upon this point, because I think it is not generally understood that the chief expense of a library is in its organization, rather than in its permanent custody. The two things should always be kept distinct. A system for rightly ordering a library should be early formed and steadily adhered to. Sufficient aid of the right kind should be furnished to the librarian, to enable him to incorporate accessions at once among the other portions of the collection; to catalogue them, and render them in the highest degree useful. A collection of books is not all that constitutes a library, any more than a collection of men is of necessity an army. The men must be organized for warlike operations to compose an army; so books, to form a library, must be arranged for purposes of study and reference.
The necessity of the proper management of a library is, however, better appreciated than the labor which it requires.
In nearly all the large libraries of Europe (that of the University of Gottingen is perhaps the only exception) the librarians have not been furnished with the necessary aid to properly dispose of accessions as they were received. The consequence is, that the work of organizing has remained unaccomplished, and that the librarians have been turned into mere custodians, from the impossibility of committing to servants what would otherwise be their work. The books were not so placed that they could be found and kept by mere servitors. The memory and learning of the librarian is in incessant demand from the want of printed guides, which ought to have been provided. Thus arrears have gone on accumulating, and the expenses of the collections have constantly increased.
‘The view which we take of the necessity of large collections of books leads us to express the gratification which we feel at the large appropriations made this year by Congress for replenishing the desolated shelves of its library. Should this liberality be continued, it will be providing with great rapidity for many of the wants which it has been our purpose to signalize. We doubt whether any appropriation made by Congress has been hailed with more intelligent pleasure. It revived the hopes of the studious throughout the country, and led to the belief that the hands which had begun this good work would carry it on to perfection. With an overflowing treasury, the possession of an enlightened and appreciative nation, we may well hope that money will not be wanting to establish the independence of American learning, to render it no longer provincial, no longer relying for its support upon the libraries of Europe.
Another movement in the same direction, suddenly assuming a position of commanding importance, is the establishment of the Astor Library of New York. It was endowed by a business man, who had the sagacity to place it under the management of one who had made the selection, purchase, and care of libraries a professional study for many years. In the history of similar collections there is nothing to compare or compete with the gathering of the Astor Library in New York.
It was established in 1849. The appropriations for the purchase ot books have been placed entirely at the disposal of Dr. Joseph G. Cogswell, the librarian. He has collected, duging two visits to Europe;

<<<Page: 441>>>

S. Mis. 53. 43
nearly 60,000 volumes, with about $63,000 dollars. But this is not all: these volumes were not taken at pandora’ ; they were bought from a list previously prepared, without regard to cost. The Ealiecuos may, for practical utility and adaptation to its purposes, for just distribution among all the departments of learning, for choice of editions, and material perfection of copy and binding, challenge comparison with any of its size in the world.
During the year, I have prepared a work containing an exposition of the system for constructing catalogues of libraries, and a general catalogue, by means of separate stereoty pe titles, with rules for the guidance of librarians, and examples illustrating the rules. This work, although not large, cost me considerable time and labor.
It was stereotyped in our own office, by the new process, which we have done so much to perfect and adapt to our own peculiar purposes. The typographical appearance of the book is very satisfactory, although the work was executed by unskilful hands, and under many unfavorable circumstances. In our operations of stereotyping we have experienced many delays and difficulties, from the fact that there was no stereotype office or type foundry at hand, and no persons accustomed to the processes of stereotyping, or the manufacture of the delicate apparatus required, We have lately, however, secured the services of an accomplished mechanic, who has already made great improvements in our processes.and apparatus, and has acquired much skill in the new art.
A series of bibliographical works has been projected and commenced by the Institution, intended gradually to form a library of valuable aids to research in particular departments of knowledge. The facilities afforded for the prosecution of this plan by the stereotyping of the titles separately, so that each part may first be printed by itself, and afterwards, without loss of the previous labor and cost of printing, be continued to form the complete work, would alone justify the labo and expense of establishing an oflice for stereotyping. The work already executed, or in progress, will furnish a ready test of the practi-
cability and efficiency of the mode of stereotyping which we have employed.
Other works of a similar character are now in preparation ; among them the bibliography of education, which we hope may be fnighed during the year 1853. The record of periodical publications i is Now nearly finished. The catalogue of bibliographical works in the library will shortly be put to press. These works may be prepared and printed without interfering with the pier of other work upon the catalogue of our own or of other libraries
Our. stereotype office is now in oper: ation, and we can execute work with a good degree of rapidity. The plan is now offered to the public. It has already been fully stated that the expense of publishing the first large catalogue will be greater than of those that follow, although this expense will subsequently be repaid to the first library in the diminution of the expense of reprinting its catalogue. The commission upon the catalogue system recommended to the Board of Regents to take measures to procure the printing of the catalogue of the library of Congress. The reasons for this recommendation were, that this lbrary would

<<<Page: 442>>>

44 S. Mis. 53.
sooner reap the benefits of the plan than any other, and that the first outlay could be better borne. Another reason is, that it is desirable to have the first catalogue prepared near to the Institution, where the whole work can be more conveniently supervised and rendered accurate. It is much to be hoped, for the success of the plan, that this recommendation may be soon followed. The Institution has borne alone the expense of developing the system, and it can reap no greater benefits than any other library of equal size. 'The expense of furnishing the first stock of titles to be used for all other libraries can ill be borne. If the work be stopped when our own means of continuing it are exhausted, much that has been done will be lost. It will be Fae possible to resume operations afier an interval of cessation, without great loss. It should be remarked that it is not necessary to finish the preparation of a catalogue before beginning to print it. The stereotypmg may commence with the cataloguing, and the catalogue may begin with any part of the library. The catalogue may thus be published in parts, each containing the books on a particular subject. These parts may afterwards be combined to form the complete catalogue, which may be either alphabetical or classed.
‘T close by most earnestly asking for this matter the immediate consideration of the Board of Regents, confident that but a small sum of money, compared with the great result to be gained, is now needed to secure the general adoption “of this system, and the full realization of all the benefits which it is calculated to bestow upon the cause of knowledge.
Respectfully submitted : Cc. C. JEWETT.

<<<Page: 443>>>

S. Mis. 53. 45
REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY, IN CHARGE OF THE MUSEUM, &c.
To Josern Henry, LL. D., Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : Str: In obedience to your requirement, I have the honor herewith to present a report upon the following branches of operations given. into my charge.
In no previous year have the publications of the Institution been so numerous and varied as in the one just passed. In addition to two quarto volumes of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, a considerable number of octavo works and miscellaneous matter have been issued.
The following list contains an enumeration of the separate articles in volume ILI, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, the whole making a volume of 564 quarto pages, and 35 plates. With the exception of Nos. 3, 8, and 9, all were issued during 1852.
List of Memoirs in volume ILI, Smithsonian Contributions.
1. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism. By John Locke, M. D., Mo Aver nS. §. pps. 0%
2. Researches on Electrical Rheometry. By A. Secchi; pp. 60, and three plates. ’
3. Contributions to the Natural History of the Fresh Water Fishes of North America. By Charles Girard—I. A Monograph of the Cottoids; pp. 80, and three plates.
4, Nereis Boreali-Americana, or Contributions to a History of the Marine Algee of North America. By William Henry Harvey, M. D., M.R. I. A.; Part I, Melanospermex; pp. 152, and twelve plates.
5. Plantee Wrightianze Texano-Neo-Mexicane. By Dr. Asa Gray, M. D.; Part I; pp. 146, and ten plates.
6. The Law of Deposit of the Flood Tide; its Dynamical Action and Office. By Charles Henry Davis, Lieut. U. 8S. Navy; pp. 14.
7. Description of Ancient Works in Ohio. By Charles Whittlesey ;
p20, and seven plates.
8. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1852. Computed by John Downes, esq.; pp. 34.
9. Ephemeris of Neptune for the year 1852. By Sears C. Walker, esq.; pp. 10.

<<<Page: 444>>>

46 S. Mis. 55.
The fourth volume, also issued and distributed in 1852, consists of a single work, viz: Grammar and Dictionary of the Dacota Language. Edited by the Rev. 8. R. Riggs; pp. 416.
Several Memoirs, intended for the 5th and 6th volumes, are in press, as follows:
Memoir on the Fossil American Ox. By Dr. Joseph Leidy. Plante Wrightiane, Part Il. By Dr. Asa Gray.
North American Algze, Part II. By Dr. Harvey.
Plante Fremontiane. By Dr. John Torrey.
In addition to these, the following are ready to go to press:
Nervous Anatomy of Rana Pipiens. By Dr. J. Wyman.
Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. By Prof. J. H. Coffin.
A Fauna and Flora of Animals. By Dr. J. Leidy.
Fossil Vertebrata of Nebraska. By Dr. Leidy.
Nearly all the illustrations of these have been completed, and are ready for binding with the text, whenever ready.
Of octavo works, the following have appeared:
1. The Sixth Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; pp. 100.
2. Directions for Making Collections in Natural History ; pp. 24.
3. On the Construction of Catalogues of Libraries and of a General Catalogue. By Prof. C. C. Jewett; pp. 78.
4, Meteorological and other Tables. By Prof. A. Guyot; pp. 176.
5. Catalogue of Paintings in the Stanley Gallery ; pp. 76.
Making a total of 980 pages quarto and 514 octavo.
There are now in press—
1. Catalogue of Serpents in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution.
2. Bibliography of American Natural History for 1852.
A second edition ef the Report on Recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts, has been called for by the public and distributed.
In addition to the above, a large number of circulars, calling for or communicating information on a great variety of subjects, has been issued.
(a.)—FOREIGN DISTRIBUTION.
The experience of the year 1852 has given gratifying evidence of the efficiency of the system of foreign exchanges now followed by the Smithsonian Institution, The receipts for the year will be found to have increased nearly eight-fold over those of 1851. The undertaking on the part of the Smithsonian Institution to receive parcels from the various societies in the United States, and distribute them to its agents in Europe, and to receive their foreign exchanges in return, has been found productive of the happiest results. The scientific relations between the two worlds have been very much strengthened in this way, and a correspondence established of the greatest importance to all parties. It may safely be estimated that at least three-fourths of the

<<<Page: 445>>>

S. Mis. 53, AT
scientific exchanges of this country and of Europe now pass through the Smithsonian Institution. ‘The expense, which is borne by the Institution, though considerable, is trifling in proportion to the good accomplished in the diffusion of knowledge. The more minute statistics of this branch of exchanges will be given in the tables below.
In addition to the publications of societies, numerous copies of several valuable works have been given by individuals to the Institution for distribution. In many cases it has been left to the Institution to select the foreign recipients of presents both from societies and individuals.
The amount of matter to be sent to Europe was very large. The publications of the Institution, consisting of two quarto volumes and a number of octavos, were double, in number, those of the last year. The Senate ordered three hundred copies of Foster and Whitney’s re-
ort on Lake Superior, one hundred of Captain Stansbury’s report of the Exploration of Utah, and one hundred of Dr. Owen’s report of the geology of lowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. The kindness of Mr. R. P. Anderson, superintendent of the document-room, and of Mr. Dooley, superintendent of the folding-room of the Senate, put the Institution in possession of a large number of public documents of scientific interest. The Indian Bureau sent one hundred and seventy-eight volumes of the History of the Indian ‘Tribes ; and the institutions of the country generally forwarded large numbers of their Transactions. The labor of arranging the details of the transmission was of course very great, the titles being first entered in the order of reception, then posted up in a ledger, in which a debit and credit account is kept with each correspondent, and a minute invoice of the entries made out and a copy sent by mail. Precisely the same system is adopted in regard to the parcels received from Europe, being first entered in a day-book, then posted up in a ledger, and finally transcribed a third time in the letter of acknowledgment. Parcels for other institutions are likewise entered in a special book, and a memorandum kept of the date and mode of transmission.
In the present case the number of letters with invoices, prepared and sent, amounted nearly to six hundred, many of them containing upwards of fifty titles.
The making up of the parcels occupied about a week, and the entire foreign transmission left the Smithsonian Institution by the 21st of June. ‘I'he cases, as before, were sent to Dr. J. G. Fliigel, of Leipsic, to H. Bossange, Paris, and to Henry Stevens, ‘of London, all of whom evinced the greatest energy and promptness in their distribution. This distribution has been nearly completed, so that every foreign mail brings warm acknowledgments of the liberality ot the Institution. Notices of this transmission have appeared in many of the foreign journals, and much admiration expressed of the extent and completeness with which the institution is fulfilling its great mission.
The following table presents the statistics of the sending of June, 1852. The names of the institutions themselves will be found in the list given in the appendix. ‘To some of these the full series of publications are not sent, butonly works on special subjects. The total number, as will be seen, is 300, of which 207 receive the Smithsonian Contributions in full. ;

<<<Page: 446>>>

S. Mis.
A.—TaBLE EXHIBITING THE AMOUNT OF PRINTED MATTER SENT ABROAD IN 1852 BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
1. Distributed by Dr. J. G. Fliigel, Leipsic.
Countries.
Swedenv: pee soseis. seek lo Aas INTRA eae. Gar CORO he HBOS HO SeIOe ozi bird eee ae noes aa SOR oeeeeene LUCIO Sse 5 Cee S Aaa UTS Se SES Been AoC eee tetas ida Ging ls GSR S eee Se Rese eee Camry eee ae as see te 1843 Lon Tits ee ee = eee Re, Pree SMMOZeT ban eta Sopa ee eee Teh BES BUSUVIE ese eh ae ere aR
Total See an Se | Sees
Institutions. Individuals.
Total of addresses.
| Packages to
institutions.
Packages to individuals.
16 19
15 19
ee et we ee
2. Distributed by Hector Bossange, Paris.
Countries.
EVAN COs secon) cco Sates acres Ttaly:-2-'.<...\cSeeeeeeei= << -/see
MO talt s,s oon eaves eae oer
Institutions.
Individuals.
| addresses.
Packages to
institutions. Packages to individuals.
Total of packages.
Total of packages.
3. Distributed through the Royal ae and the agency of Henry Stevens, ondon.
Countries.
Institutions.
Portugal Spain GrewtMBriialM ss), set aes) mnie
Individuals.
Total of addresses.
Packages to institutions.
Packages to individuals.
Total of packages.
——_—__—_—

<<<Page: 447>>>

ie vo)
S. Mis. 53.
4. Miscellaneous Distribution.
a ; ei | gs sf 5 as SS es | se Countries. s = | aie) <a> = ws 277 =) a < = 2 os Hs 5 cS ae nA Greece, Turkey, Asia, and J:\ CCl i eG eee ae 5 AS Ee e Seeeeee 9! joscerd nae oleae ees Mexico and South America. . NO) eters ses seers ccc 1 an eee) ame A Totalbet conse ncee So |e eee 3B SBF seen. te ces | 38 5. General Summary. ¢ | 4 | 4¢| ¢ |g | ¢ 2 3 = & A I I rs i) os a o =} = n 5 es) A 45 ma Sy ft o as iS 5, 2 A= | Agents. % o © 5p wm OM Ps = el _ a op i oO eat x oS a | S ob 5 5 o 2 5 ES = a = 4 4 S) E DrJiaGe Bliiselos = s2.: 147 271 214 25 5 4, 250 Hi Bossange..22. coc.c0c<< 89 109 112 9 45 “1,530 FL a Stevens... ces censsccc 93 154 oF 8 73 2,445 Miscellaneous ....-...----33 38 oo 4 20 660 Motaleoea ses thcnee 362 572 456 46 263 9, 885 6. Total of Volumes sent. Prepentstrom the Smithsonian IMstitutlOnssespec.. sce cise e cee amsicncmce enwinies ca 5, 756 TERE SarOMOUN CLS aca 2 cimeloim enisewia wicmicisita(etlccls omic erivicinic ewwinisewiece cman teas 3, 439 Ota eee siete cies se nei annie oe = ee ieteiste = (o~ el felon aairinnmainncans/ eae ana 9,195
‘Many of the above-mentioned parcels contained packages for institutions or individuals not in direct correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. As aletter of advice was sent to each of these, the difference between the number of addresses in the above tables, and the number of letters sent, expresses the number of such packages, viz:
Number ot letters sents oo Saewe an. -wo ec oecid en cee -. 456 Number of Smithsonian addresses........-..--Des a See 362 Difference expressing the included parcels.............--.--. 94. WWhichweded: 0.2520 62's. oct = ee lead D StS cdiah ce aE 572
Gives as the total of packages made up, and sent to 456 addresses, 666 4 :

<<<Page: 448>>>

50 S. Mis. 53.
B.—TABLE EXHIBITING THE AMOUNT OF MATTER RECEIVED FROM THE DIFFERENT INSTITUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES IN 1852 For DIsTRIBUTION ABROAD.
Obtained by the Smithsonian Institution from various sources, but exclusive of its own publications ......... 3,958 vols. Received from other sources, as follows:
Beston Societyiot Natural Mistery . 222). 22204 ee 34 Dr. Jenn) Gi Warren. yee <n cinta se cee terete alae 100 American Oriental (Societyemee > oes Be eee 33 Academy. ot Natural Sciencesge. . 202 -aigee =~ 2 492 American! Philosophical sSociety.'. . 50 -).ne = -\<.<oh 68 Nationals Observatorys = seme. — 6 araeereteceeioe 1,108 Superntendent) of Indian Affairs... 3 2-55) 178 Woast SUPVEY i fle) cisielwlpmeeina.s + = alata eater stelete 222 ic posrapnical) Bureau. <eee ie <a ele eerie wie Ot! @ommissionero1 Patents “see. so ao ee ee 627 Postmaster tGenetale rcs sare ee eiaies Ae 32 MencnstOmMcet: ees sts “ly ta ia meni 100 Light-House Board....... i 1 Caan mea SS OE 68 Dunoeon Generale sha. cvelavaeeie ao eieietee io a aimiare Binns 149 Georgetown Colleges <i 4 oor: ajarcevepnte cial ele oe se 60 American: Journal Of Science. 27) aes aoe wis oe ene 50 Ohio {Boardiof Apmenlinre At wee 2. 2 lisc oe St Presbyterian, Board of Kducation.:.....2.-..2... 50 Miscellaneous, including individuals............... 745 4,188 vols. Total received.iatiecans eee ck wok oem 8,146 *
The actual number of volumes and titles is considerably greater than the above, as of the 4,188 quoted as from other sources, 351 consisted of packages, each containing several volumes. ‘This would make the sum total amount nearly to 9,000 volumes.
Such volumes as were received subsequent to the 21st of June are still on hand, amounting to about 1,650. These would have been sent off early in the past autumn but for the desire to include with them the sixth Report of the Smithsonian Institution, the Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, and of the Commissioner of Patents for 1851, the final Report on the Geology of lowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, and some others. It is confidently expected that all will be despatched early in January, to prepare the way for the large transmission in June.
In table C will be found an exhibit of the receipts of the Smithsonian Institution from abroad in 1852. For convenience of comparison, I have added the returns for 1851, and prior dates.

<<<Page: 449>>>

S. Mis. 53. 51
C.—TABLE EXHIBITING THE RECEIPTS BY EXCHANGE IN 1852, anpD INCLUDING THOSE OF PREVIOUS YEARS.
Volumes. Parts of vols. and pamphlets. Years. | | Mapsand| Total. Folio and; Octavo. | Total. |Folioand Octavo.} Total. jengrav’s. quarto. quarto. | | (ce — 449 689 | 1,138 495 | 1,414 | 1,999 | 1,698 4,745 ESOL 33 .5.ceer 96 171 267 118 224 S42Y eae Sees 609 1850 and prior..{| 132 138 27 (0) eee eee ee 608) Wace coc 878 ‘Hoi dsc.. 677 | 998 | 1,675 613 | 1,638 | 2,859 | 1,698 6, 232
It will be seen from the above table that the total receipts for 1852 have been three times as great as during all previous years. ‘The number of extended series bf Transactions, and other desirable works, has been in unusual proportion. Among these I can only mention a few: as 30 volumes, Svo., of Transactions and Reports from the Acad-
my of Sciences, Stockholm; 21 volumes, 4to., of Transactions of the Danish Society of Sciences, Copenhagen; 23 volumes, Svo., of Memoirs of the Academie Nationale of Metz; 26 volumes, Svo., of the Transactions of the Society of Agriculture, &c., of Lyons; 17 volumes 8vo., and 1 folio, of Gay’s History of Chili, from the Chihan government 5 25 volumes, 4to., of Philological works, published by the East India Company ; 29 volumes, 4to., of Transactions of the Batavian Society of Experimental pean? 20 volumes, 4to., of Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburg ; 1,574 charts from the London Admiralty ; 22 quarto and 25 octavo voles of Transactions of the Utrecht Society of Arts and Sciences; 31 volumes 8vo., and many folio, belonging to the Voyages of the Astrolabe et Zélée, Venus, Thetis et Esperance, aCe presented by the Ministere de la Marine of France; 16 volumes, Atos ., from the Royal College of Surgeons, of London; 54 volumes, 4to., of Manuscripts from J. O. Halliwell, of London; 14 volumes, 4to., from the Academy of Sciences, Bologna ; with very many others. Almost every parcel from a foreign society contains donations from prominent members, of works, many of them ofien very costly. In fact, the books received in 1852 could sc carcely have been purchased for less than four or five thousand dollars.
The following table exhibits the number of parcels, many of them including sever: al volumes, which have been received in 1852 for other institutions in the United States.
D.—TaBLe OF PACKAGES RECEIVED IN 1852 FOR OTHER INSTITUTIONS.
Boston.—American Academy of Arts and Sciences.....-. i oo Sse Naturals EMstory SOGICUy Ze). wees cin an dt os secten os oe are

<<<Page: 450>>>

52 S. Mis. 53. Cambridge-—Observatory...---..-----------------+----+---14 Astronomical Joummales -...4ck tatoos cee seb eee 29 Newhaven Journal.of SClenGese: . -:.'. .vatmamres cate oe see 20 American Oriemtale Society. \-peacteaes 24 2.4) eore 5 New York.—New York Lyceum of Natural History........-.-10 ‘Ethnolopical(Socteme: << 2se eye sete ore alos = ve ist: Alfany —New York State Vibramy... -.. 20422022 eee eee. at gee Philadelphia—American Philosophical BOCLOLY: Seic(s teen. eh 39 Academy .of-Netural Sciencestes e322 2ei es =: 13 Mrankiniilinstiintes. 2 .\.-.) 3 acies cece seems 7 Washington.—National Observatory .....-.----------AGS bre 41 @oast) Surveyierewn. . oa Seam ea eee 32 National Institmtes?.: .. 2) Smee eeice cee cere 19 Congress libramyee : s . 5.) .heges ae py ee 6 State Departmonven .. <a eae ose oor ele 4 Astronomical Expedition to Chili.........-..--. 14 GEOR A ELOwN.—— Olle ge. = ii neee anes «oe Leno ars ays eels oie alae: « 7 Cinempati.—Observatoryi.: naseue. 2. Ua odee eee eee 10 Miscellancouscimstitations: .|-7yo20e -\. jae e ey Se ne ee ee 123 Tieingtalvad se toe aes NUS eee aes eben 2 SUR) ane aN ea eee, Ree ea 195 Total-of packages. 3222. -/3 637
It is much to be hoped that Congress may make some systematic and permanent arrangement for distributing a complete series of its works to European libraries, to at least thirty of which they might be judiciously supplied. It would also be desirable that of particular works of scientific interest, as reports of Patents, Coast Survey, explorations in geography and geology, and others of a similar character, a larger number might be assigned, of from one hundred to three hundred, as has already been done in some instances by the Senate. These might be distributed by the Smithsonian Institution at moderate cost to government, and direct returns or exchanges obtained for the library of Congréss if desired.
The distribution of Congressional documents in the United States also might be considerably modified. At present the copies given to the State Department for domestic distribution can only be sent to colleges or lyceums, not to regular public libraries, even of the largest class. The rules in force with the Smithsonian Institution might well be applied in the present case, of making as equable a distribution as possible throughout the country, supplying all large. public libraries, and giving to smaller ones where a large district would otherwise be destimute. It is also a matter of complaint with men having special objects of research that public documents relating to their investigations are not assigned to them. This might be remedied by directing some department to keep full lists of persons in the various walks of science, and to supply the names on such lists regularly with extra copies of documents to be furnished by Congress. How far it would be convenient or proper for the Smithsonian Institution to undertake this labor, and under what conditions, is for you to say.

<<<Page: 451>>>

S. Mis. $3. 53
(b.)—DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGES.
Owing to various unforeseen and vexatious delays, the copies of the Smithsonian volumes for domestic distribution could not be sent off before October. They have, however, all been distributed, and acknowledgments for nearly the entire number received. The Institution is much indebted to the following gentlernen for receiving the boxes containing the parcels and forwarding them, without any charge, to their respective destinations: Messrs. J. P. Jewett & Co., booksellers, Boston; George P. Putnam & Co., booksellers, New York; Messrs. Lippincott, Grambo, & Co., booksellers, Philadelphia; John Russell, bookseller, Charieston; B. M. Norman, bookseller, New Orleans; Dr. Geo. Engelmann, St. Louis, assisted by John Halsall, bookseller, St. Louis ; H. W. Derby & Co., booksellers, Cincinnati; and Jewett, Proctor, & Worthington, Cleveland. As in the transmission of last year, most of the parcels sent included copies of the second volume of the great work on the Indian tribes, presented by Mr. Luke Lea, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, to recipients mostly nominated by the Smithsonian Institution. A number of copies of the valuable quarto volume on the North American mastodon, by Dr. John C. Warren, was sent by the author to the Smithsonian Institution, for such distribution as it might consider suitable.
TII.—NATURAL HISTORY DEPARTMENT. (a.)—COLLECTIONS.
During the year 1852, the collections of specimens illustrating the natural history of North America, and received by the Institution, have been very numerous, embracing a large number of species, either quite rare or absolutely new to science. A list of these additions will be found in the Appendix—the number of distinct donations exceeding 100. These embrace a very large number of specimens, as many of the collections indicated consist of several filled kegs, barrels, or boxes. Tio enumerate the individual components of each would occupy too much space in this report, although such a list is always made out as soon as possible after reception, and entered in books kept for the purpose. A copy is also sent to the donor, if desired. ‘The specimens are assorted as fast as possible, and arranged as well as can be done in the temporary want of room or rooms for their proper preservation.
A gratifying feature in relation to the additions to the museum in the past year, consists in the number and value of those derived from officers of the army and navy. Such persons must always be the chief contributors of new matter, and it is a subject of much congratulation to find that they are becoming more and more alive to the importance of depositing their collections in a place where they can be readily visited, and, by combination with others procured under similar circumstances, serve to facilitate the preparation of the reports of expeditions, which are usually, to a considerable extent, made out in this city. I need only refer to the valuable collections of Lieut. Col. Graham, Major Emory, Captains Marcy and McClellan, Lieutenant Wright, Dr. Edwards, Dr. Jarvis, Lieutenant Gilliss, and others.
The collections of specimens officially deposited with the Institution

<<<Page: 452>>>

54 S. Mis. 53.
during the year 1852, for safe-keeping and the preparation of reports, have been quite numerous. The zoological and paleontological series gathered by Mr. John H. Clark, under Lieutenant Colonel Graham, while on duty with the United States and Mexican boundary survey, far exceed any before made, under similar circumstances, in North America, considered in reference either to their extent or perfection of preservation. Major Emory has also sent in valuable specimens from the boundary, likewise collected by Mr. Clark. ‘The Commissioner of the General Land Office deposited the extensive series of minerals and fossils collected by Dr. D. D. Owen, while engaged in the geological survey of lowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. The very extensive and valuable collections made during a three years’ residence in Chil by Lieut. J. M. Gilliss, U. 8. Navy, have also been deposited by him, under authority from the Secretary of the Navy. They consist of numerous and well preserved skins of birds and mammals, reptiles, fishes, and invertebrates, in alcohol or dried, and plants, fossils, and minerals.
Many valuable collections have been received from meteorological and other regular correspondents of the Institution. ‘These, scattered over the entire North American continent, constitute a corps always active in accumulating facts and materials of the highest importance in the promotion of science.
Some interesting specimens have been received by the Smithsonian Institution, under an engagement made with several societies and surveys to name collections which may be sent for that purpose. Such specimens, if necessary, are sent to naturalists residing out of the city, who make their examinations and report the results to the Institution.
The American Fur Company, ever ready to recognise the claims of science, has authorized the Institution to supply their posts on the upper Missouri with the materials for preserving specimens of natural history. For this purpose, through the kind agency of Dr. George Engelmann, of St. Louis, a quantity of alcohol and of arsenic was distributed at various points along that remete region, which will, no doubt, in time yield good fruit. The report for 1850 shows how much has already been done by gentlemen connected with the company, and it is hoped that the results for 1853 will in no degree fall behind what is there recorded.
I shall now proceed to give a brief systematic account of the specimens received, referring to the alphabetical list of donors for fuller information on the subject.
Mammals.—The collection of mammals from Northern Europe, announced last year as having been transmitted by the Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, has since arrived, and fully realized the anticipations of its value. It consists of well-preserved skins and skeletons of nearly all the larger species, as reindeer, elk, stag, bears, wolves, foxes, glutton, &c. All of them are indispensable to the proper determination of the allied American species—a task which could never before be accomplished for want of just such material. At the present time the Smithsonian Institution is in possession of the best collection of the larger North American and European mammalia, both skins and skeletons, to be found in the United States.
A skin of Bassaris astuta, brought by Captain Marcy from Red river,

<<<Page: 453>>>

S. Mis. 53. 55
supplies the most northern locality yet known of this species. Some valuable mammals, from Western America, have been presented by the Academy of Natural Sciences. Skulls and horns of the common deer have been received from Mr. Stanley, Mr. Guest, and others. Mr. Stanley has also presented skins of the Jaguar, Felis pardalis, and the peccary, Dicotyles torquatus, from esas. Mr. Charles Wright, so well known for his botanical researches, has given a skin of the Lynx texensis, or ‘Texas wild-cat. From Lieut. M. F. Maury has been received a skin of a young manatee, brought from the Amazon river by Lieut. Herndon.
Among skeletons of American mammals, the principal donation is that of the gray wolf of the Yellowstone river, presented by Mr. Edward ‘I’. Denig, to whom the Institution has been betore indebted for similar favors. Dr. Edwards presented skulls of buffalo, bighorn, &c., with those of Indians of several tribes.
Birds.—Several interesting collections of birds have been received from various sources. Mr. James Fairie has presented some rare species from Louisiana ; Mr. Chas. Wright, a series from the vicinity of Frontera, including several species “recently described from the
valley of the Rio Gr: ande ; and Dr. P. R. Hoy, some from the vicinity of Racine, Wisconsin, one of the most interesting ornithological districts in North America. Mr. Wallington has sent an interesting collection of the eggs of birds inhabiting the Tortugas.
Reptiles—As usual, the most marked additions to the collections of the Institution are to be found in the department of reptiles and fishes. These have been received from all portions of the United States, including California, New Mexico, and Texas. Mr. J. 8. Bowman, during a recent journey to California across the plains, collected specimens of Phynosoma platyrhinos, and forwarded them living, with some others of much interest. Dr. Boyle has deposited a valuable collection from Eldorado county, California. A small number of specimens procured by Dr. Gambel, in the same country, has also come into possession of the Institution. Mr. Lindheimer sends numerous specimens from Western Texas; Captains Marcy and McClellan, from Red river ; Mr. James F Fairie, in Western Louisiana; Colonel B. L.C. Wailes and Dr. Shumard, in Mississippi; Dr. P. R. Hoy, of Racine, Wisconsin ; and Rey. Charles Fox, of W: ayne county, Michigan, have also greatly enriched the collection with western species. Species from Western See lvania have been received from Professor ieee and from South Carolina, from Dr. Barker, of Charleston, and Dr. Barratt, of Abbeville.
Fishes.—The collections in this department grow with great rapidity. Mr. Girard brought many specimens from Maine last autumn. A few weeks spent in Massachusetts and New Hampshire gave to myself the opportunity of completing the collections of fresh-water fishes of these States. Very full collections of the fishes of Lake Erie have been received from Rev. Charles Fox; of Lake Michigan, from Dr. Hoy ; of the Wabash river, from Dr. Nea wood; of the coast of Carolina, from Dr. Barker; of the Tortugas, from Lieut. Wright; of Cayuga lake, from Mr. Hopkins; as well as interesting series from Col. Waile es, of Mississippi; Prof Porter, of Mercersburg, Pennsylvania ; Mr. White,

<<<Page: 454>>>

56 S. Mis. 53.
of Georgia; Dr. Bibb, of Russellville, Kentucky; Dr. Barratt, of Abbeville, South Carolina; Dr. Wormley, of Columbus, Ohio; Dr. Stevens, of Olean, New York, and many others. One of the most important additions consists of a series of nineteen species of Cyprinodonts, labelled by Prof. Agassiz, and serving as types of the paper on this family which he proposes to present to the Institution. Numerous species of North European fishes were presented by the Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm.
Invertebrates—Very important additions have been made to the aquatic species of invertebrates from various sources. Among the most valuable are those sent from the Tortugas by Lieut. Wright, embracing a large number of new and rare forms. A collection of similar extent, from the coast of Carolina, was forwarded by Lieut. Kurtz. Unionide have been received from Col. Wailes, of Mississippi, and Prof. Safford, of Tennessee, in large numbers. A small collection of Jand shells, from Oregon, was presented by Dr. Shumard: out of fourteen species furnished, six are new to science. A very important addition to the collection consists of a series of eighty species of shells from Greenland, presented by Mr. Christian Drewsen, of Copenhagen.
The insects received have been few in number, and these principally from Mr. Fairie, who sent quite a large collection of Lepidoptera and Coleoptera. Many species of Orthoptera were procured on Red river by Captain Marcy, and in Texas by Mr. Lindheimer.
Plants.—A collection of plants of Delaware county, Pennsylvania, was presented by the Delaware County Institute. A suite of plants, collected by Lindheimer in Texas, was obtained through Dr. Engelmann. Dr. Shumard sent a small collection from Oregon. Valuable donations of algze were made to the Institution by Miss Brewer, Lieut. Kurtz, &c. A small series belonging to Lieut. Lynch’s collections on the shores of the Dead Sea was presented by Hon. J. P. Kennedy.
Fossils and minerals——The Commissioner of the Land Office has deposited with the Institution additional specimens of fossils from the Minnesota survey, collected by Dr. Owen, including some of the vertebrate remains from Nebraska. Infusorial earths from Virginia have been received from Prof. William B. Rogers and Dr. Beck. A suite of coal plants was sent from the mines above Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and a series of silurian fossils from Dr. Stevens, of Olean. Remains of fossil elephant, from near Wheeling, were presented by Mr. Alfred Sears, and of mastodon, from Fort Gibson, by Mr. B. Marshall. Lieut. Gilliss forwarded a very interesting collection of fossils from Chili. The principal minerals received consisted of gold and silver ores from Mexico, presented by Dr. Jarvis, together with copper ores from Chili, by Lieut. Gilliss.
Ethnology—Various remains of the North American Indians have been received by the Institution during the year; but much the most important addition in this department is to be found in a large number of axes, arrow-heads, and other stone instruments, from Denmark, presented by Prof. C. C. Rafn, of Copenhagen; thus affording an interesting opportunity of comparing the closely allied implements used by the aborigines of Europe and of North America.

<<<Page: 455>>>

S. Mis. 53. o7
(b.)—-PRESENT CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS.
During the year as much progress | has been made in the final determination rand arrangement of the specimens as the press of other occupations would allow. ‘Those in alcohol have been kept in proper condition, and such dried skins have been baked as needed this process as a preservative against the attacks of insects. A number of mammals, preserved in alcohol, have been dried for the purpose of ascertaining accurately their specific character. The unfinished state of the museum apartment renders it necessary to confine the collections in as small space as possible, none but basement rooms being available. The labor of labelling the specimens is greatly incre: ised by the fact that many of the species are undescribed. In illustration of this I may state, that in the single department of the serpents, the Institution possesses more than ‘twice as many North American species as are given in the great work of Dr. Holbrook. 'To render this mass of see immediately available to science, the preparation of catalogues has been commenced, similar to these of the British Museum andl the Museum of Natural History in Paris. In these, full descriptions of the genera and species will be given, and such known species as may not Fenc been received by the Institution will be inserted in an appendix. Each volume will thus constitute a complete manual of a portion of the natural history of North America. ‘The first of these catalogues— that of the serpents—is in press, and will very shortly be finished.
(c. SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.
A great many applications have been made to the Institution, by parties at home and abroad, for information or assistance in making exchanges of specimens of ni atural history. Such help is always cheerfully rendered, and some important relationships have been thus established. Some of the gentlemen who have made these applications are as follows:
Curist1AN DrewseEn, Copenhagen, desires to exchange North Euro-
ean and Algerian Coleoptera for Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Hemi: pera, of North America.
Friepricu Sturm, Nirnberg, and ApotpH Senoner, Vienna, wish American ferns in exchange for European.
Dr. G. Von prem Buscu, Bremen, wants North American shells, especially Melanie, in exchange for European.
Prof. H. R. Géprert, Pree. director of the botanic garden, wants seeds of all plants common to Europe and America, as an auxiliary to certain investigations upon the influence of climatological conditions upon vege tation.
B. Ou zENinvETTE; Rue Pelegrin, and Dumovutin, ainé, 8 Place de la Bourse, Bordeaux, desire North American fresh-water and land shells in exchange for European.
Dir F'RANCESCO Lanza, of Spalato, in Dalmatia, desires to exchange fossils, minerals, reptiles, shells, plants, &c., of Dalmatia, and the Adriatic, for crystallized minerals and shells from North America.

<<<Page: 456>>>

o8 S. Mis. 53. (d.)—REGISTRY OF PERIODICAL PHENOMENA.
The blanks for the registry of the periodical phenomena of animal and vegetable life in 1852, were distributed early in the last spring. Most of these have been returned filled, and imbody imformation of the highest interest. Many were accompanied by carefully-prepared lists of the animals and plants of their respective stations ; constituting material towards an accurate determination of the geographical distribution of species. The results thus obtained will be carefully tabulated and published at the earliest practicable moment.
Respectfully submitted : SPENCER F. BAIRD,
Assistant Secretary.
Account of screntific explorations, and reports on explorations, made in America, during the 4 Eas 1852: By Spencer F. Batrp.
Tn the present article I propose to give a brief account of the progress of scientific explorations in Nerien during the year 1852. It aril be seen that the record is much more eee than that of the last year, affording gratifying proof of the increasing interest felt by government and individuals in the development of the geography, geology, ethnology, and physical and natural science of this country.
I propose to take up the history of discovery in the following order :
1. Smithsonian Institution. War Department. Topographical Bureau. Department of the Interior. Land Office. Navy Department. Coast Survey. Domestic States, Societies, and Individuals. . European States, Societies, and Individuals.
As the account of the operations of the Smithsonian Institution, m the way of exploration, has already been given in your report, I shall proceed directly to the second head. ;
eee ee
2. War DEPARTMENT.
Exploration of Red River—In June of last year an expedition was sent out by the War Department for the purpose of exploring the country along the Red river of Arkansas and its tributaries, under command of Captain R. B. Marcy, so well known as an energetic explorer, and accompanied by Captain Geo. B. McClellan. The party started from Cache creek, a stream rising.in the Wichita mountains and emptying into Red river. Fom this ‘point they passed along the ridge separating Cache creek from Red river, to Otter creek. The ane of this stream, in lat. 34° 30’ and long. 100° 10’, was found to constitute the southwestern terminus of the Wichita mountains, a range about seventy miles long and twenty-five wide. In

<<<Page: 457>>>

S. Mis. 53. 59
these mountains, and beyond, many interesting discoveries of granite, basalt, great beds of gypsum, &e., were made. Passing along the north fork of Red river to its head, they crossed over to the Canadian. From this stream they struck and explored the middle and south forks of Red river; along the latter of which they returned. Astronomical
and other observations were diligently made throughout the journey, and many important facts ascertained in regard to the geology, agricultural capabilities, and geography of this region, hitherto nearly a blank in our maps. A very extensive collection of plants, reptiles, fishes, insects, fossil remains, &c., was made, which, besides embracing much that is new, will tend to throw great light upon the geographical distribution of species.
3. ToPpoGRAPHICAL BUREAU.
Exploration of the Zuii and Colorado rivers—The expedition for the exploration of the Zuni river, organized under Captain L. Sitgre aves, returned last winter, after having accomplished all its objects in a re markably short space of time. ‘Accompanied by Lieut. J. G. Parke, Dr. 8. W. Woodhouse as surgeon and naturalist, Mr. R. H. Kern as artist, and Mr. A. Leroux as ouide, t the party left the pueblo of Zuni on the 24th of September with an escort of thirty men, commanded by Major H. L. Kendrick, of the 3d artillery. Passing down the Zuni (which proved to be an inconsiderable stream) to its junction with the Little Colorado, sixty miles below, they continued down to the Cascades, some eighty-six miles further, where the stream falls into a deep cafon. From this point they were compelled to strike across to the Colorado, and descended this stream about two hundred and fifty miles to its mouth. Crossing over to San Diego, they arrived at the termination of that part of their journey in the end of December. A great part of the route never having been before explored, much was done by the expedition in rectifying and improving the geography of the region, while Dr. Woodhouse made use of the scanty opportumities ator ded by the barren soil, to collect specimens of natural history, many of which have proved new to science. These will be published in the report of the expedition, shortly to be submitted to Congress.
Survey of the Lakes—The survey of the Northern lakes has been carried on with great energy during the past year. Besides extending and verifying the triangulations in the vicinity of Green Bay and Mackinac, a base line was measured at the latter place under the immediate direction of Captain T. J. Lee. The apparatus with which this important work was conducted was made by Mr. Wm. Wurdemann of this city, and is considered to be fully equal, if not to surpass any ever used before for similar purposes.
Exploration of Utah.—The report of Captain Stansbury of his oT. ration of the valley of the Great Salt Lake appeared in June, 1852. As in most of the recent explorations undertaken by the Topographical Bureau, many important discoveries in natural science were made during this exploration, the results of which are here given. Many new species of mammals, birds, reptiles, insects, plants, and_ fossil remains, are first published in this report. The additions to our geographical information have also been very extensive, tending greatly

<<<Page: 458>>>

60 S. Mis. 58.
to clear up the obscurity which prevails in regard to the geography of the great Central Basin. The discovery of a new route and pass through the Rocky mountains is also one of very great importance.
Umited States and Mexican Boundary Survey.—During the past year the operations on the boundary line between the United States and Mexico, under John R. Bartlett, esq., and Major William H. Emory, have been prosecuted with great vigor. The survey of the river Gila has been completed from its confluence with the Colorado to the point where it is struck by the western boundary of New Mexico. 'The Rio Grande has also been surveyed from the initial point agreed upon, to the Laredo, with the exception of a strip between San Vicente and the mouth of the Pecos. ‘The connecting link between the two lines has also been surveyed provisionally. It 1s probable that, should Congress
make suitable appropriations, the whole field work will be completed in 1853. In addition to the exceedingly numerous and accurate obser-
vations in astronomy, geography, meteorology, and terrestrial magnetism, the collections in geology, mineralogy, zoology, and botany, Tie by Messrs. Parry, Wright, Clark, Bigelow, Thurber, and Webb, have been of great extent and value, supplying us with almost as thorough a knowledge of many forms of organic life in this country as of the long-settled portions of the United States. The perseverance of the gentlemen of the commission has been rewarded by the acquisition to science of a large number of undescribed and rare species.
5. Lanp OFFICE.
Geological Survey of Oregon, by Drs. Evans and Shumard.—Dr. Evans left St. Tee in the aaa of June, and aseended the Missouri to the mouth of the Yellowstone. From this point he crossed over to the Pacific coast, pursuing an entirely different route from that traversed by other explorers. His route passed through the very centre of the Black Feet country, and over the Rocky, Blue Range, and Cascade mountains, terminating at Oregon City; which he reached about the middle of October. In this journey, though accompanied a great portion of the way by only a single man, he explored the main chain of the Rocky mountains for a distance of nearly two hundred miles, without a guide, or even a trail, and discovered a pass several degrees farther north than that usually travelled. The observations made along the line of his route will enable him to construct a geological section ona the Mississippi river to the Pacific ocean. Many geographical facts were collected of the highest value, which will constitute a very important addition to our stock of knowledge in relation to a portion of country hitherto almost entirely unknown.
The assistant geologist, Dr. Shumard, embarked from New York in the latter part of June of the same year, and proceeded, by way of the isthmus of Panama, to San Francisco, and thence to Oregon, where he arrived early 1 in August, and shortly after began his explorations, following the main lines of survey, and locating nie observations, as far as practicable, by townships and sections.
In addition to the materials for accurate geographical determinations,
_. etal

<<<Page: 459>>>

S. Mis. 53. 61
the results of the observations of Drs. Evans and Shumard have been of the greatest practical importance. Valuable and extensive deposits of limestone, porcelain earth, tertiary coal, &c., were ascertained to exist.
Geological Survey of Lake Superior —In obedience to instructions from the Land Office, Messrs. Foster and Whitney revisited the scene of their previous explorations on Lake Superior, with the view of collecting the most recent information respecting the mining region. They will probably submit the result to Congress in the torm of a final report upon the entire subject of the mineral lands of this interesting region.
The final report of Dr. D. D. Owen on the Geology of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota, was published towards the end of the year 1852. This constitutes the most elaborate work of the kind ever issued by government, consisting of two quarto volumes, with numerous illustrations on wood and steel. The paleontological portion is of much importance, containing, in addition to the invertebrata described by Dr. Owen, a paper by Dr. Joseph Leidy on the fossil Rhinoceros, Palaotherium, Archeotherium, Testudo, &c., of the Mauvaises ‘Terres.
The second part of the Report of Messrs. Foster and Whitney on the Geology of Lake Superior also appeared during the past year. With the able assistance of Professor James Hall, they have been enabled to present some very important comparisons between the fossils and fossiliferous rocks of Europe aud America, besides describing many new species.
6. Navy DEPARTMENT.
The year 1852 will ever be memorable in the annals of the American navy for the extent of the explorations either completed or commenced within its limits. Under the liberal administration and enlightened policy of the Hon. J. P. Kennedy, Secretary of the Navy, all the disposable force of the department has been brought to bear upon the advancement of geographical knowledge.
Astronomical Expedition to Chili.Lieut. Gilliss returned in November last from a three years’ residence at Santiago, in Chil, to which place he had gone for the purpose of observing the parallax of Venus. During the time of his absence he made more than forty thousand observations on this planet, besides gathering a very large number of facts in regard to other departments of astronomy, magnetism, meteorology, earthquakes, geography, &c. He also made very valuable collections in natural history, especially in ornithology, in many respects superior to those collected and published by Claude Gay, in his History of Chili.
Lieut. McRae, who, with Lieut. Phelps, had been the companion of Lieut. Gilliss, was detached by him to carry a magnetical and meteorological profile across the continent over the Andes. ‘This route will be, for the most part, through an unexplored region, and the result will no doubt be of very great interest.
Exploration of the Amazon.—Lieut. Herndon, U.S. N., returned in the summer from his exploration, in connexion with Lieut. Gibbon, of the Amazon and its tributaries. As the most feasible way of penetrating this region, they crossed the Cordilleras, in Peru and Bolivia,

<<<Page: 460>>>

62 S. Mis. 55.
and passing through an almost unknown geographical region, descended
the Amazon to its mouth. Lieut. Gibbon took a somewhat different
route, and has not yet returned. Both gentlemen have, in addition to
their physical investigations, made copious notes on the natural history
of the countries traversed, which will, in time, be presented to Conress.
Although not properly coming within the history of the past year, it may not be in: appropriate to mention some of the enterprises in contemplation for 1853, which are in an active state of forwardness, and which bid fair to render this year conspicuous above all others in the annals of American discovery. The most important of these is the proposed survey of the seas of the North Pacific and Behring’s straits, under Captain Cadwallader Ringgold. This officer will leave early in the spring with four vessels, all constructed and fitted for the purpose. He will take with him a complete outfit of instruments and apparatus for the successful prosecution of all branches of physical science, in addition to the hydrographical details, upon which he will, of course, bestow especial attention. By the liberal construction of the law of Congress ordering this survey, on the part of Mr. Kennedy, he will be accompanied by a corps of naturalists well skilled in their respective duties, and provided with all the material necessary to a successful prosecution of their investigations and explorations.
The next exploration in contemplation is that of the river Parana and its tributaries. Captain Page has been assigned to this duty, and, in command of a small steamer, will start ina few weeks. The limited accommodations on board prevented the addition of a naturalist to the corps, but this want will be made up by the zeal of the officers themselves, who go fully provided with the means for making collections. Much of interest will doubtless be furnished by the plants of this unexplored region. The expedition will be accompanied by an aes enced Roethurlen who will collect roots, seeds, and living plants, a well as dried specimens.
Dr. Kane, U.S. N., so well known as an enterprising traveller, will
roceed next April on a second voyage in search of Sir John Franklin. Supplied with the requisite funds by the munificence of Mr. Henry Grinnell and Mr. George Peabody, in connexion with the Geographical Society of New York, atl of the Smithsonian Institution, and accompanied by a picked crew, Dr. Kane will undoubtedly add much to our previous knowledge of the meteorology, magnetism, geography, and natural history of the remote regions of the north. The expedition will be accompanied by a skilful collector, who will bestow especial attention upon the minute invertebrata of the Arctic ocean.
Captain Lynch, to whom we are indebted for so much information respecting the Dead Sea, has again started upon a similar enterprise. Under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, he will proceed to the coast of western Africa, touching at various points as far as the river Gaboon, for the purpose of ascertaining the most suitable point for penetrating this little known continent. ‘As soon as his reconnoissance has been completed, he will be supplied from home with an organization of vessels, men, apparatus, &e., necessary to continue his researches. Much is anticipated for science in this expedition, in

<<<Page: 461>>>

S. Mis. 53. 63
addition to the more immediate object of obtaining reliable information in respect to a future extension of colonization on the coast.
7. Coast SuRVEY.
This highly important work, under the able superintendence of Prof. A. D. Bache, has progressed rapidly during the past year. The division into sections, adopted some years ago, seconded by liberal appropriations from Congress, has en: ibled the Superintendent to bring out results of the greatest value. The sections at present established are as follows
Section I. F rom Passamaquoddy bay to Point Judith, including coasts of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island.
Section I. From Point Judith to Cape Henlopen, including coasts of Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delawane .
Section IN. From Cape Henlopen to Cape ‘Henry, including coasts of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia.
Section IV. From Cape Henry to Cape Fear, including coasts of Virginia and North Carolina.
Section V. From Cape Fear to the St. Mary’s river, including coasts of South Carolina and Geor gia. .
Section VI. From St. Mary’sriver to St. Joseph’s bay, under Anclote keys, including the Florida reefs and keys.
Section VIL. From St. Joseph’s bay to Mobile Point, including the remainder of the coast of Florida.
Section VIII. From Mobile Point to Vermillion bay, including coasts of Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
Section IX. From Vermillion bay to Mexico, including part of coast of Louisiana and Texas.
Sections X and XI. Coast of California and Oregon.
Our limits will not allow us to go into the particulars of operations on this great national work further than to state that, in every Section, triangulations, surveys, and soundings, in great number, have been made. The charts and sketches published or in progress amount to upwards of eighty, and in point of mechanical execution and accuracy are unsurpasse d. In addition to the strictly hydrogri iphical and geodetical operations, observations have been made i in magnetism, meteorology, astronomy, tidal phenomena, &c., of the highest importance. Great interest, too, is felt by many officers of the survey, in different branches of natural history, which will yield practical results of great moment.
8. Domestic STATES, SocIETIES, AND INDIVIDUALS.
State Surveys.--The geological surveys of the different States, as referred to in my last report, are progressing with considerable rapidity. New York has published three additional volumes of her series of magnificent quartos—one of paleontology, by Prof. James Hall; the others on agriculture and on fruits, by Prof. E. Emmons. The feldev ork of the Pennsylvania survey, under Prof. H. D. Rogers, is nearly completed, and the final report in active state of forwardness. North Carolina, Illinois, Mississippi, and the other States, are actively engaged in the development of their geological and paleontological history, under

<<<Page: 462>>>

64 S. Mis. 53.
the supervision of the able gentlemen to whom these trusts have been committed.
Antiquities of Wisconsin—Mr. J. A. Lapham, of Milwaukie, has completed the elaborate survey of the antiquities of Wisconsin, upon which he has been so long engaged, under the patronage of the American Antiquarian Society at Worcester. ‘The manuscript record of his operations is illustrated by a large number of quarto illustrations and many
wood-cut figures—the whole constituting the most important contribution to American ethnology made, since the publication of the work by Messrs. Squier and Davis, on the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley.
Dr. Adolphus L. Heermann, of Philadelphia, returned last spring from several years’ residence in California. During his stay he devoted especial attention to the subject of ornithology, and with such success that his collections far exceed in number and value all others previously made in that region. He also procured many specimens of mammals, reptiles, insects, &c.—the whole furnishing a large amount of materials new to science.
Colonel George A. McCall, of the United States army, during a recent tour through Oregon and California, in pursuance of his duties as inspector general, embraced the occasion, as in previous instances, to secure such zoological specimens as fell in his way. The most interesting acquisition thus made was that of a new genus of Saurians, somewhat resembling Phrynosoma in the presence of spines on the head, since characterized by Dr. Hallowell under the name of Anota.
Reference has already been made to the very great additions to our knowledge of the geographical range and association of species furnished by the collections and reports of the numerous correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution, scattered, as they are, over the entire area of the United States. The particular record of their operations will be found in the list of additions to the museum of the Smithsonian Institution.
Mr. William Stimpson, whose labors have been referred to in a previous report, during last summer again visited the rocky shores of Grand Manan, where he found a rich harvest. Many new species of marine invertebrates were procured, and others added to the American fauna, which were previously known only on the coast of Europe or of Greenland. The results of his investigations he proposes to present to the Smithsonian Institution, in the form of a memoir on the marine invertebrata of Grand Manan. This gentleman has been selected to accompany the expedition of Captain Ringgold, as zoologist, and will, doubtless, in connexion with his associate, Mr. Wright, as botanist, be the means of greatly extending the domain of natural science.
Marine Alge.—The publication, by the Smithsonian Institution, of Harvey’s Marine Algee of North America, has been the means of exciting great interest in the study of this attractive department of botany. Numerous collections have been made during the past summer, by different individuals, embracing many species additional to those described by Dr. Harvey.
Professor C. B. Adams, of Amherst College, having just completed
his work on the shells of Panama, and desirous of procuring additional

<<<Page: 463>>>

S. Mis. 53. 65
facts in regard to the distribution of marine animals, visited the island of St. Thomas in December last; whence, after spending some time there, he proposes to proceed to th ve other islands of th e same group. An appropri: Ae has been made by the Institution to defray a portion of his expenses.*
Exploration of Garden Key, Florida.—A very thorough exploration of Garden Key, by Lieut. Wright, resulted in the addition of m: ny new and rare species of marine animals. The collections thus made were forwarded by him to the Smithsonian Institution, where they arrived in perfect order during the past summer.
9. Forrian States, SocieTIES, AND INDIVIDUALS.
During the past year several foreign savans of eminence have visited this country for the purpose of commencing explorations or continuing those previously begun. Sir Charles Ly ell made his third visit to the United States, and, as on previous occasions, endeavored to clear up certain doubtful points in the geology of this country. Dr. Charles Scherzer, of Vienna, and Dr. Moritz W agner, of Munich, were sent out, under the patronage of the Academy of Sciences of Vienna, for the purpose of instituting inquiries into the social and civil condition, the physical gcoaraphy, and the natural history of North America. In pursuance of this object they have already visited the region of the lakes and of the Mississippi, “and are now in New Ofleane. preparing their reports upon what they have seen. It is their intention, some time in 1853, to penetrate into South America, and to pass several years in explor ations in various unknown parts of the continent.
Prince Paul, of Wurtemberg, well known as an enterprising trav-_ eller and naturalist, has, for Ae present, completed his collections and investigations in the ane States, and is about starting for Chili, where he proposes to continue his labors. His specimens hae e all been transmitted to Europe, where they will be elaborated as soon as possible.
A valuable report has re cently been published in Germany upon the ctetaceous formation of Texas, ‘and its included fossils. The author, Dr. Ferdinand Reemer, visited this country some years ago with special reference to this geological formation, and has prese snted in the above work, in an eehorate for m, what was given in less detail in a smaller volume issued in 1849. The determinations of Dr. Roemer are of much interest, as constituting nearly all that is known of the geology of Texas.
Very important contributions to our knowledge of the Northwest have been made by the reports of the voyage of H. B. M. ship the Herald. This vessel, during several years’ absence in the region of Behring’s straits, made numerous collections in natural history, the accounts of which are now in course of publics ition. One of the parts already issued consists of a minute account of the remarkable ice cliffs of Kotzbue’s sound, and the remains of various species of the elephant, ox, deer, musk-ox, &c., imbedded therein. Another is occupied by the botany of Western Esquimaux land.
* As this Report is passing through the press, the Institution has heard, with deep r¢ regret, of the death, at St. Thomas, of Professor Adams. 3)

<<<Page: 464>>>

65 S. Mis. 53. APPENDIX B.
Alphabetical list of donors to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution.
Academy of Natural Sciences—Skins of mammalia from Oregon, (in exchange.)
Academy of Sciences, Stockholm.—Collection of skins and skeletons of mammals, with reptiles and fishes preserved im alcohol, from Northern Europe.
Agassiz, Prof. L._—Nineteen species of North American Cyprinodonts.
Ames, James T., and H. K. Brown.—Statuettes of male and female
tlawas and of male Chippewas, modelled by H. K. Brown, and cast in bronze by James T. Ames, at Springfield, Massachusetts.
Baird, S. F.—Fishes and reptiles from Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
Baird, W. M.—Specimens of Pimelodus from Reading, Pennsylvania.
Barker, Dr. S. B.—Fishes and reptiles from Charleston, South Carolina.
Barratt, Dr. J. B.—Reptiles, fishes, &c., from Abbeville, South Carolina.
Bartlett, Joshua.—Shells, &c., from Whitehead, Maine; skin of lump fish; various fishes and crustaceans, in alcohol. —
Beck, Dr. Wm. B., U. S. N.—Fossil wood from near Fredericksburg, Virginia. Infusorial earth from Rappahannock cliffs.
Bibb, George R.—Fishes and reptiles from Russelville, Kentucky.
Blunt, Lieut., U. S. N—Minerals from California.
Boden, Dan. B.—Specimen of Lota from Otsego Lake.
Bowman, J. Soule-——Reptiles from California, and fishes from the Sweetwater branch of the Platte.
Boyle, Dr. C. C.—Reptiles from California, (dep.)
Brewer, Miss.—Prepared Algz from the coast of Massachusetts.
Butterfield, Hon. J—Three boxes of geological specimens collected by Dr. D. Owen in his U. S. surveys.
Delaware County Institute, through George Smith.—Collection of the plants of Delaware county, Pennsylvania.
Demg, E. T.—Skeleton of female gray wolf, from the Yellowstone river.
Dyer, G. H.—Skin of albatros—Cape Horn.
Drewsen, Christian—Kighty species of Greenland shells.
Eakins, D. W.—Stone pipe dug up from a depth of thirty-two feet, in the Cherokee nation.
Edwards, Dr., U. 8. A.—Skulls of Indians, buffalo, bighorn, &c.
Emory, Major W. H.—Skims and skeletons of mammalia, from Texas.
Engelmann, Dr. George.—Suite of plants collected by F. Lindheimer in ‘Texas, and by himself about St. Louis.
Fairie, James.—Repties, insects, stalactites, and a specimen of maguey plant, from Orizaba. Collection of reptiles, birds, &c., from Morehouse parish, Louisiana.
For, Rev. Charles.—Several very full collections of fishes, reptiles, &c., from Grosse Isle, Michigan.

<<<Page: 465>>>

S. Mis. 53. : 67 Gilliss, Lieut. J. M., U. S. N.—¥ossils trom Caldera, Chili.
Girard, C.—Fishes from Maine. ,
Guest, W. E—Two heads of common deer, (Cervus Virginianus,) skins of cross fox and otter.
Hopkins, ae —Collection of fishes from Cayuga lake.
Hoy, Dr. P. R.—¥ishes and reptiles from Racine, Wisconsin; skins of vids a Wisconsin.
Jarvis, Dr., U. S. A.—Gold and silver ores from Mexico.
Keller, J. S—Geological specimens from Schuylkill county, Penn sy lvania.
Kelsey, W.—Crystallized copper from Cliff mine, Lake Superior.
Kennedy, Hon. J. P., Secretary of the Navy.—Plants collected around the Dead Sea by Captain Lynch, U. 8. N.
Kurtz, Lieut. J. D.—tLarge collection of recent and fossil shells from the coast of South Carolina; shells and crustaceans, in alcohol and dried, from Charleston harbor ; alg from the same locality.
Lindheimer, F’.—Fishes, repules, crustaceans, &c., from New Braunfels, Texas.
Lewis, K.—Stone used by the Indians in dressing skins, from the fork of the Arkansas and Verdigris rivers.
Marsh, Hon. George P.—Collection of shells, seeds, crocodiles’ eggs, &c., from Egypt.
Marshall, B.—Tooth of mastodon, found thirty-five miles above the mouth of Grand river, near Fort Gibson.
Maury, Lieut. M. F.—Skin of young manatus, from the Amazon.
Marcy, Captain R. B., and Captain McClellan.—F¥ishes, reptiles, and insects, from Red river, Arkansas.
Norwood, Dr. J. G.—Fishes from the Wabash river.
Porter, Professor T. C.—Fishes, &c., from near Mercersburg, Pa.
Prescott, Dr. Wnm—Typical specimen of Coregonus novanglie. Lake Winnipisiogee.
Prince, George—Specimen of Chironectes, crustacea, and gulf-weed, from the Gulf Stream.
Rafn, Profissor C. C., through J. F. Jillson.—Stone axes, arrow-heads, &e., from Denmark.
Rodgers, Lieut. John, U. S. N.—Fish caught in sounding-line off Cape Florida ; ; soundings from same locality. .
Rogers, Professor W. B.—Infusorial earth from near Richmond, Virginia, and from Barbadoes.
Ruhl, F.—Skeletons of bat, Vespertilio pruinosus; of a fish, Tautoga Americana; skeleton of Coluber and skin of Harelda glacialis, from New York.
Safford, Professor J. M.—F ifty species of Unionidae, from Tennessee.
Sears, Alfred.—'Tusk and tooth of fossil elephant, from diluvium near Wheelin? ; Indian remains from a mound near the same locality.
Shumard, Dr. B. F’.—Plants and shells collected in Oregon; collection of reptiles from Mississipp1.
Stanley, J. M.—Porcupine quills, as colored for manufacturing purposes, by the Indians of Arkansas; skin of Leis onca, or jaguar, and of Dicotyles torquatus, or peccary, from Texas ; steitoe ‘ked horns of two deer, Cervus Virginianus ; horns of ditto in the velvet.

<<<Page: 466>>>

68 S. Mis. 53.
Stevens, Dr. R. P.—Fossil remains, shells, fishes, reptiles, &c., from Olean, New York. ;
Thompson, Rev. Zadock.—Specimens of Leuciscus atromaculatus, and cornutus, from Vermont ; Menobranchus, and various species of fishes, from Lake Champlain.
Totten, Lieut. James, U. S. A.—Leaf of Sisal hemp, from Florida.
Varden, John.—Specimens of coal, from the great London exhibition.
Wailes, Col. B. L. C.—Recent and fossil shells, from Mississippi ; marine fishes, from the coast of Mississippi; Unzonide and Chelonia, from Mississippi.
Wallington, F.—Nests and eggs of birds, from Garden Key, Florida.
Wheatland, Dr. H.—Uiving specimens of Testudo tabulata, from Para, and ‘ Scaphiopus solitarius,” trom Danvers, Massachusetts.
Wheeler, Dr. S. J.—Amber, from near Murfreesborough, N. Carolina.
White, B. A.—Fishes trom Oconee river, Georgia.
Whitney, Samuel.—Native copper and silver, from Lake Superior.
Williams, Professor L. D.—Specimens of Menopoma and Menobranchus.
Wormley, Dr. T. G.—Fishes and shells, from the vicinity of Columbus, Ohio.
Wright, Lieut. H. G.—Fishes, corals, crustacea, and shells, from Tortugas.
Wright, Charles—Skins of birds and lynx, with skull of wolf; fossil shells, &c., from near Frontera, ‘Texas.
Donor unknown.—F ossils from Middlesex county, Virginia.
$s Fossil coal plants from near Harrisburg, Pa.
‘ ‘6 Minerals from Washington county, Maryland.
“ é Specimens of Ama, Catostomus, Clupea, and Coluber Alleghaniensis.
List of Foreign Institutions to which Volumes II] and IV, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, were sent, June, 1852.
Lund.—University Library.
Stockholm.—\ongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien. Vitterhets Historie och Antiquitets Akademien. Riksbiblioteket.
Upsala.—University Library.
Société Royale des Sciences a Upsal. ‘
Bergen.—Bergen’s Museum. Christiania——The University Library.

<<<Page: 467>>>

8. Mis. 58. 69
Reykjavk.—tIslands Stiftisbokasafn.
Copenhagen.—Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab. Konge lige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. Kongelige Bibhothek.
PDorpat.— Observatoire Impérial.
Kusan.— University Library.
Moscow.—Société fmpériale des Naturalistes de Moscou.
St. Petersburg —Académie Impériale des Sciences. Imperial Public Library. Administration Impé sriale des Mines.
Amsterdam.—Académie des Sciences.
Ffaarlem.—Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. flague—Royal Library.
Leyden.—Univer sity Library.
Middelburg. —Zecuwsche Genootschap der Wetenschappen. Rotterdam.—Bataafsch Genootschap der proctondervindelike Wijsbegeerte.
Uireckt—Utregtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen.
Berlin. —Koniglich-Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Koénigliche Bibliothek. Konigliches Museum. Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Bonn.—University Library.Bremen.—Stadt-Bibliothek. Breslau and Bonn.—K. L. C. Akademie der Naturforscher Dresden. —Kinigliche Bibliothek. Erlangen —University Library. Frankfurt am Main.—Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. PFretherg.—Koniglich-Sichsische Bergakademie. Freiburg. —University Library. Giessen.—Unive sity “Library. Greifswald. University Library. Goettingen. —Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, University Library. Halle.—University Libr: ary. Hamtburg.—Stadt-Bibliothek. University Library.

<<<Page: 468>>>

70 S. Mis. 53.
Hannover.—Royal Library. Heidelberg.—University Library. Innspruck.—University Library. Jena.— University Library. Karlsruhe.-—Grossherzogliche Hof bibliothek. Koenigsberg. —University Library. Leipsic.—Stadt-Bibliothek. Konigliche Saichsische Gesellschaft. Marburg.—Gesellschaft zur Beférderung der Gesammten Naturwissenschaften. University Library. Munich.—Koniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Koniglche Hof-und Staatsbibliothek. Prag.—University Library. Kénigliche Béhmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Bobhmisches Museum. Pesth.—University Library. Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft. Stuttgart.—Konieliche Oeftentliche Bibliothek. Verein fiir Vaterlandische Naturkunde. Tiibingen.—University Library. Vienna.—K. K. Akademie der Orientalischen Sprachen. Kaiserliche Hofbibliothek. University Library. Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. Wiirzburg.—University Library.
Bruczelles—Académie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des BeauxArts. Observatoire Royal. City Library. Gand.—University Library. Liege.—Société Royale des Sciences. Louvain.— Université Catholique.
Bordeaux.—Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. ‘ Société Linnéenne. Caen.—Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Société Linnéenne de Normandie. Société des Antiquaires de Normandie. Dion.—Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Lille.—Société des Sciences, de ?Agriculture et des Arts. Mende.—Société d’ Agriculture, Commerce, Sciences, et Arts. Lyon.—Société d’Agriculture, d’Histoire Naturelle, et des Arts Utiles. Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Société Linnéenne. Metz.— Académie Nationale. * Montpellier —Société Archéologique.

<<<Page: 469>>>

S. Mis. 53. 71
Orleans.—Société des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Paris.—L Institut de France. Société des Antiquaires. “© Asiatique. “de Géographie. ‘ Géologique de France. «¢ Philomatique. Bibliotheque Nationale. Bibliotheque du Jardin des Plantes. L’Ecole des Mines. Société Ethnologique. Bibliotheque de la Ville de Paris. Société Nationale et Centrale d’ Agriculture. Ministére de la Marine. Strasbourg.—Société des Sciences, Agriculture, et Arts, du bas Rhian. Académie des Sciences N aturelles. Toulouse—Académie des Sciences, Inscriptions, et Belles-Lettres.
Basel.—Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Antiquarische Gesellschaft. Bern.—Schweizerische Gesellschaft fiir die Gesammten Naturwissenschaften. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Geneve.—Société de Physique et d’Histoire Naturelle. City Library. Neuchatel. Société des Sciences Naturelles. Zurich.—Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Gesellschaft fiir Vaterlandische Alterthiimer in Zurich.
Bologna.—Istituto delle Scienze ed Arti Liberali. ee Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Florence.—Biblioteca Magliabecchiana. Lucca.—Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti.Milan.—Biblioteca Brera. Imperiale Regio Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Modena.—Societa Italiana delle Scienze. Naples.—Reale Accademia delle Scienze, e Belle Lettere. Padua.—Imperiale Regia Academia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Pisa.—University Library. Palermo.—Royal Academy of Sciences. Rome.—Accademia Romana di Arche ologia. Biblioteca Vaticana. Accademia Pontifica dei Nuovi Lincei. Turin —Accademia Reale delle Scienze. Venice.—Biblioteca Marciana. ¢

<<<Page: 470>>>

Lishon.—
S. Mis. 53.
Academia Real dos Sciencias.
Madrid.—Real Academia Espanola.
Belfast—Natural History and Philosophic al Society.
6 6 de la Historia. Academia Real de Ciencias. Biblioteca Real.
Camnbridge—Cambridge Philosophical Society.
Penzance-—Royal Geological Society of Cornwail.
University Library. Observatory.
Dublin.—Royal Irish Academy.
Library of Trinity College.
Edinburg.—Royal Society.
Royal Scottish Society of Arts. Royal Observatory.
Advocates’ Library.
Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. University Library.
Wernerian Society of Natural History.
Glasgow.—University Library. Greenwich. Royal Observator yLondon.—Royal Society.
5 a |
“ Astronomical Society. «© Asiatic Society. «© Geographical Society. ‘¢ Institution.
Society of Antiquaries.
Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
Commerce. Linnean Society. Geological Society. Institution of Civil Engineers. Zoological Society. Entomological Society. Statistical Society. Microscopical Society. Ethnological Society. British Archiological Association. British Museum. Library of the House of Commons. Horticultural Society. Chemical Society. Archeological Institute of Great Britain
Manufactures, and
and Jreland.

<<<Page: 471>>>

S. Mis. 53. 73
Board of Admiralty. Library of the Hon. the East India Company. Royal College of Surgeons. British Association. Athenzeum Club. Philological Society. Museum of Practical Geology. London Library. Leeds.—Philosophical and Literary Society. Liverpool—F ree Public Library. Manchester. —Literary and Philosophic al Society. Free Library and Museum. Ozjord.—Bodleian Library. Radcliffe Observatory. St. Andrews—University Library.
GREECE. Athens.—University Library.
Constantinople—Library of the Sultan.
Grand Cairo.—The Egyptian Society. Liberia. —Government Library.
Batavia.—Bataviaasche Ge nootschap van Konsten en Wetenschappen Bombay.—Royal Asiatic Society. Geogr: iplitc al Society. Calcutta.—Asiatic Society. Ceylon. —Asiatic Society. Hong Kong. —Asiatic Society of China. Madras. —Liter: ary Society. Manilla—loyal ‘Economical § Society of the Philippine Islands.
Bogota.—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. Cite as.—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. Habana.—Real Sociedad Economica: Rio Janeiro —Imperial Brazilian Historical Society. Chili.—Government Library.
University Library. Mexico.—Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadistica. .

<<<Page: 472>>>

74 S. Mis. 63.
To Josepu Henry, LL. D.,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution :
Srr: I herewith submit to you a report, showing the condition of the meteorological correspondence of the Institution during the year 1852.
With but few exceptions, there have been received regular monthly returns of observations from all the stations previously reported, and it 1s gratifying to find that the system has been extended by the addition of several stations. The new observers reside chiefly in the western and southern States—districts of country from which meteorological information was much needed. ‘The spirit manifested by the corps of observers has also improved; as is manifest from the registers being carefully kept, and the desire of all who have but few instruments to supply themselves in this respect, and at their own cost. It is to be regretted that the limited means at the disposal of the Institution for this object, and the many demands upon it for other purposes, render it inexpedient, at present, to aid observers in the purchase of instruments.
Soon after the occurrence of an earthquake in the central part of the United States, on the 29th of April, 1852, a circular was issued by the Secretary, requesting a report of any observations which had been made or could be gathered relative to that event. Numerous replies have been received, embodying facts sufficient to enable the Institution to mark the point of chief intensity, and trace out the diverging lines along which the earth-wave passed.
Another circular has been sent out during the year, requesting persons having in their possession any meteorological registers for series of years previous to the files of the Institution, which commenced early in 1849, to transmit them for reduction. A large amount of valuable information from various parts of this country has by this means been obtained. As this collection is still im progress, a report of its results is at this time withheld. The instruments belonging to the Institution, and deposited with observers, remain as before reported.
In addition to the necessary blank forms and directions for registration of the weather, the aurora, periodical phenomena of plants, and the circulars for special observations just referred to, there have been distributed to observers a copy of the following works, viz: Sixth “ Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution ;’” Espy’s ‘“ Iteport on Meteorology ;” “ Meteorological Report of the Surgeon General of the U. 8. A.,” a sufficient number of copies having been kindly placed at the disposal of the Institution by the Surgeon General for this purpose; ‘* Directions for making collections in Natural History ;” ‘Patent Office Report, 1850 ;”’ part 2d of ‘ Guyot’s Meteorological Tables ;” and other smaller publications, not necessary to be enumerated.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E. FOREMAN, General Assistant Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 473>>>

S. Mis. 53.
List of persons from whom Meteorological Observations have been received at the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1852.
State.
ERR este eine so ces
New HampsuHire...
RuopE IsuanpD.....
CoNNECTICUT .....-
New York 222 36-
Name.
Rev. Samuel H. Merrill. George B. Barrows..... James G. Garland....-.. Rufus Buck
Dr. William Prescott. ..tobert C. Mack.......Rey. Levi W. Leonard. Samuel N.Bell 22. s.c6 2 Rev. Zadock Thompson. . Prof. W. Hi Parker... ... Lewis M. Dayton ...... D. Underwood... . 2.
Jacob Batchelder ...--. Samuel F. Haven...... William Bacon: .<2.. 4... Amasa Holcomb Henry Rice C. M. Freeman Benjamin R. Gifford. ...
ee “<2 ee eee wee
Prof. A. Caswell.......
Rev. T. L. Edwards. .-. Prof. Aug. W. Smith. ... P. A. Chadbourne..-...-
bet. Munger...» 0<'ne C.¥. Mauti¢e....<.< a4: Ee A, Damion. .. <0 20 6 Dr. Franklin B. Hough. . John Bowman.....-.-.
Walter D. Yale_........
Ephraim N, Byram. ....
Residence.
Oldtown. Fryeburg. Biddetord. Bucksport. Windham. Whitehead. Steuben. Thomaston. Cannel.
Concord. Londonderry. f Dublin.
Manchester.
Burlington. Middleburg. Castleton. Castleton. Brandon.
Lynn.
W orcester. Richmond. Southwick. North Attleboro’. Williamstown. Barnstable.
Providence.
New London. Middletown. East Windsor Hill.
Albion.
Sing Sing. Madrid. Somerville. Baldwinsville. Houseville. Smithville. Sag Harbor.
John Lefferts........--| Lodi.

<<<Page: 474>>>

160 S. Mis. 53. LIST—Continued.
Prof. J. A. Kirkpatrick. .| Philadelphia. tev. David J. Eyler ....| Somerset.
State. Name. Residence. New: Yor 25 =. John Haahairchild2s Seneca Falls. CharleseA. Avery . 2°22: Seneca Falls. Johnie enkinse 222 2} Salem Centre. Albettvktosmer 2 os. Fort Porter. Ji Me wien 2 ae eee Oswego. Mandrin Linus. ......-.| Sackett’s Harbor. James. lrevors. 2. 2" Lockport. William E. Guest’...... Ogdensburg. Henrys Dinsmores] = 2. Syracuse. Thomas’ B. Arden>_222 Phillipstown. Le ieaechild Sate fees Constableville. Dr-RBe@ewilliamse 08 Gouverneur. New Jersey... 92:. Prot A. 10): Wroske a. Burlington. ter Cookesa seen see Bloomfield. W. A. Whitehead ......| Newark. PENNSYLVANIA....Weir Blodgera.. vce Sugar Grove. . Prot. en ecous see aes Gettysburg. Joseph Edwards 2 Li J. L. Miller (Seshadri Revi I-Gs Ralstone. ca. Norristown. John Jackson? 222" ae Darby. Andrew Eoulston. 222 ).: Freeport. David Peclor = Skee Indiana. Corydon Marks -...-.... Manchester. Dro RoBestevens 2: Ceres. | Dr. Paul Swift....-...Philadelphia. Ebenezer Hance ......Morrisville. 5 a [Slits ; of Peta Ae Nazareth. 1. Kummer | Dried aiieisely S35 ooo: Harrisburg. Orrin’ wee ObbSse aes Randolph. Me Gant). eee ene Honesdale. Dr: Heagy Smyser?.-'-* Pittsburg. W.Weaivalson . ee Pittsburg. Jog Comaly .. 2 23k 2 Byberry. Francis Schriener ...-.. Kingsley’s P. O. J. Fishtrae oorlies 34 Philadelphia. M. Abhbome . "See Summit Hill. Thomas Seabrook... .. Summitville. Samuelprown o. esse. Bedford.
Barnet McElroy........| Clarksburg.

<<<Page: 475>>>

State.
S. Mis. 58. LIST—Continued.
Name.
MaryLaNnp
Dist. or CoLuMBIA.
ViIRGINTA 4222.20 22
NortH CAROLINA...
SoutH CAROLINA...
econ eee ane
Residence.
Prot 2a P orter «n2.. | Dr. William Baer ......
Dr. Lewis F. Steiner. .. -| Henry E. Hanshew....-. | Lewis spell... 2... 224. | Rev. John P. Carter. .-.| Proidee Nelson...
Smithsonian Institution. -
Dr. F. J. Mettauer...-.| William Skeen......... | Eieuieht..0 . Astop...).. | Charles Meriwether. ....! Dr. William N. Patton...
N. B. Webster. ...-..-.Marshall McDonald.....
Prof. James Phillips .... Rev. J. A. Shepherd. ... Rev. Fred. Fitzgerald :. .|
H. W. Ravenel
Thornton Carpenter . -
Richard T. Gibson... .. Dr. George F. Cooper... Dr. E. M. Pendleton... ..Disdoto tl. Posey. 2.2 3° P. C. Pendleton... .. <.... Prof. J. E. Willet....... | John, Warby .<1 4a-4.-
S.J. Cumming. .....--Alexander Winchell... -!
Drive. Osborne’ sn <<
Newark.
| Sykesville.
Baltimore. Frederick. Leitersburg. Hagerstown. New Windsor.
Washin gton.
Prince Edward C.H.
Huntersville. Crichton’s Store. Cobham. Lewisburg.
| Richmond.
Madison. Buftalo. Middlesex. Bridgewater. Winchester. Portsmouth. Romney.
Chapel Hill. L. Seu ppernong. Jackson.
St. John’s, Berkely.
Camden.
Whitemarsh Island.
Perry. Sparta. Savannah. Powellton. Penfield. Culloden.
Monroeville. Eutaw. Erie.

<<<Page: 476>>>

State.
FLoripa
MicuicaNn
S. Mis. 58. LIST—Continued.
Name.
John#Newton 222.622 5 John ‘Bearson, U.S.N...\. Judgetmug. Steeles...) IW eeeposarte yeas che 1:
Jab Brownes 2. set Pres’t T.C. Ervendberg. Dr. Samuel K. Jennings.
ProfiA 2PoStewart.... -|Prof. -W. M. Stewart -.
Reuben Harris, U. S. N. Prof.'O2W Morris 2 .)Thomas L. Sawyer.....
John-E. Younglove...... Lawrence Young.....-. Fi. C.. Hemicke 222.2 Sei. L. -Berthoud-22 202222 ..
Prof.;@.ge), Allen :5 43 </Drsk..C.:Bidwell...... George L. Crookham. ... SS. N.asamiord <..iaes se
Rev. J.D. McMatthews. Theo. G.”Wormiey ..-FA ce Beton on es Prof. J. W;. Andrews: . Thomas F. Withrow. .-. Li. Gromemer .. 3-20 Prof. J.R. W. Sloane. --.
Rev. George Duffield. Dr. W.M. Campbell... . Thomas Whelpley...-.. Dr. H. R. Schetterley Charles*Hetts. 5.025%...
Residence.
Knox Hill. Pensacola. Atseena Otee. Tallahassee.
Vicksburg. Jackson.
New Orleans.
Huntsville. New Wied. Austin.
Lebanon. Clarksville. Mem phis. Knoxville. Dixon’s Springs.
Bowling Green. Springdale. Bowling Green. Maysville.
Oberlin. Keene. Jackson. Granville. Cleveland. Hillsborough. Columbus. Mansfield. Marietta. Homer. Germantown. Northwood.
Detroit.
Battle Creek. Monroe.
Howell & Ann Arbor. Burr Oak.
Clinton.
Ann Arbor. Brooklyn.

<<<Page: 477>>>

State.
ENA AS 82s nce we
TaraNols <2. ccc oe
Minnesota TER. ...
InpIAN TERRITORIES. OREGON kc c-< ccs sa'e
Britisy Possessions
Bermupa, W.I....-
S. Mis. 53.
LIST—Continued.
Name. Residence. WW. Alistim 2s: cece. Richmond. John Chappellsmith..... New Harmony. Prot. di. Pingley. =... Greencastle. Prot, Pos rowils eo. Upper Alton. Dr. 8. Beeitlead « 2. eck Hancock. Prof. Joel tall. 3... 0." Athens. Dr: JO aaa Ss oh 3 wee Ottowa. Dr. J. B.N. Khogers....; Plymouth. ADs eR da. coh nea! Muscatine. ida Gale 2. en ee Keokuk. Daniel McCready ......| Fort Madison. AD saps C27 2 (10 ee Dubuque. J.A.Lapham.... ....| Milwaukee. Etev. J alaty Grmale yya.2.5--2. Kenosha. Orrin Densmore......-Emerald Grove. Prot ss ke iaathrop s+. .| Belort. Drebs Peis... Baraboo. James C. Brayton...... Aztalan. Thomas Gaye seen 3 "ene Fontaine. CO. Pomengy ss ..2.4 4. | Green Lake. Prof. J; Li. Piekard «2-2. | Platteville. Williaiiguyres.. < s/g o,f « | Watertown. Edward Spencer....... | Summit. Samuel Spates........| Sandy Lake. Charles Cavileer ....... Pembina. Alonzo Barnard........Cass Lake.
Rev. Stephen R. Riggs... Prof. A. G. Moffatt...... George A. Atkinson ....
Capt,J.H. Lefroy. «4. . Dr. Chas. Smallwood. . Henry Poole
Capt. Alexander, Begs. =
Lac-qui-Parle. Armstrong Acad’y. Oregon City. Toronto, Canada W. St. Martin’s, ‘*
Pictou, Nova Scotia.
Bermuda.

<<<Page: 478>>>

80 S. Mis. 53.
List of persons from whom have been received registers of periodical phenomena observed during the year 1852.
State. Name. Residence. NESINE Seve ce oe SDP ark er Pe et Steuben. Dr. Joseph L. Stevens. -| Castine. New Hamesuire ...| S. Ne ell... oo 52c. : Manchester. Roberis@:.Mack 2.8632 Londonderry. MassacHuUsETTs..-.-.| William Bacon........ Richmond. Eheniayaiuice Senate eg yee N. Attleboro’. Connecticut ....'..| Prof. John Johnston... Middletown. New: Yorniny. 2. 532. W. Hseuest.a2 oe spate Ogdensburg. Dr. Josephs Bares eae. Lebanon Springs. John F. Jenkins. .....-..! North Salem. Cornelius Chase ...-... Chatham, Colum. co. John, Bray oe soe es West Point. d Dream Brea eee ined atl ta Peopumatmede dale Constableville. John Bowman? <2 62522 Baldwinsville. Hs ING @bytatit a) nec cee oe Sag Harbor. W:'C.-Belcher=-4¢2 22" Plattsburg. New Jersey: .-='.) Rev. ProecA. Proste a): Burlington. W. A. Whitehead... --.. Newark. PENNSYLVANIA... ..dB lagy biO\ Aa oee a mere nef Hollidaysburg. Davitt Peelore. os cc6 5-510 Indiana. Prot. alts. Porter i Mercersburg. John: Jaclkson: 822 oss 2. Darby. Dreks BaStevens 2. Ceres. Prot, Joie. C ofhin tse Easton. Prof. M. Jacobs.......-| Gettysburg. Jobnitipams 3. ee Radnor. Dr."Georse Smith... =. -Upper Darby. Ji.uS ewer <3 teeta Orwigsburg.
Prof. L. D. Williams. ...} Meadville.
MARVIUAND ee John’ C-gleyser.—.----2 Hagerstown. Miss Harriet M. Baer...| Sykesville.
WIRGINIAME 6. ores: Jedediah Hotchkiss. .... Mossy Creek. N. B. Webster... 2... a Portsmouth. Re FS Aemop’. 2 steers Genito.
Dr. John R. Purdie.....| Smithfield. Dr. A. G. Grinnan..eese| Madison C. H.

<<<Page: 479>>>

5. Mis. 53.
LIST—Continued. State. Name. Residence. Sourn Carorina ...| Dr. J. A. Young......-.. Camden.
WRB ANMA owes onc Alexander Winchell....) Eutaw.
Benjamin F. Holly ..... Weokaville. MBSAS ete aes toe TG. Mavendbero. 2.2 New Wied. OO 3% sexe Vom Weite ss s.ccwos oe Cincinnati.
Robert Shields. ........ Belle Centre.
Li. Gtonewee .. ..2<.425.<4 Germantown.
Miss P. D. Childs...... Keene. MICHIGAN ......... Lic Woodnilt . 2ccc.c% as Ann Arbor.
Dr. Dennis Cooley...-... Washington, Ma-
comb co.
NASSOGRT. 22 Ste. a Prof. John M. Ordway..| Trenton, Grundy co. WoWikegsa ccc s ec caae Daniel McCready ..-....Fort Madison. |
List of persons, and stations, furnishing meteorological observations to the
Regents of the University of the State of New York.
Names.
Fev. ts SWONE. . 2/0 sche ss a Ae F. H. Wines Provessor Lo O00Ks i. cae shee donm DO. W atkins. 2.2.6 25s was ae Sa to) ors) ee Charles G. Hazeltine. .....<0#s<. | ACC Sie iii, ee eee Protessorn0Root <<. a2 <2 eens Judge E. C. Reed.......------EF. By Downes @..2cs 356. hae Dre MW. Base... can 2cecie ae Daniel Gillet: 22.022. eee ee Fe WCF Kenyon aistac ae. a's «neil ive DICKINSON ¢ vicc'seine 6 ade eats 6
Stations.
Deaf and Dumb Institute, N. Y. Free Academy, New York. Erasmus Hall, Flatbush, L. I. East Hampton, Long Island. Albany. Liberty, Sullivan county. Delhi, Delaware county. Cherry Valley. Oxford, Chenango county. Hamilton College, Clinton. Homer, Cortland county. Ithaca, Tompkins county. Utica. Elmira.
Alfred Academy, Allegany CO. Jamestown.

<<<Page: 480>>>

82 S. Mis. 53. LIST—Continued.
Names. Stations. Mil: Christiange 2) 0. eee Fredonia. Charles Winnes os. 0 te >) oe Bufialo. Rey. Dr. C. Dewey. 2.5 ae Rochester. Rey, b ablalens 9820. si See Geneva College, Ontario county. liyian W iGonkey <2... |. sa Syracuse. W EL.cGillaspiee 22. oo. ci eee Mexico, Oswego county. Joseph Wie Veydor2 i... aren Plattsburg. JeoBy. Denies ae asset ee oc cn cee. Salem Centre. Wa Girest : .oat le oe Ogdensburg. Hon. NathanreleJones!... .\:,.,.. 2%): Newburg.
List of the persons and stations of the meteorological system of the State of Massachusetts.
Names. Stations. Perot So Snell rime eens or eee cee Amherst College. Prot. Albert, Hopkins tc)-!-5. 0.1 Williams College. neIEy PUICC = susp neta areal ete North Attleboro’. chard Edwards’. 2. Steet. 0iLe Bridgewater. hey. .David Rowe: Je... ...2 3. Westfield. Dr ...Berkunss 2520. 2h Newburyport. oshua, Davis. «ves oc. ote See Truro. Hon. William Mitchell .......... Nantucket. De Keward Smith 2) eee Worcester. Hon? John’ Brooks?! 2,72 Lae. Princeton. Moses UW alte. 5.0. Soe ae Bernardston.
Wikle yler so. ce ae at. syne Pittsheld.

<<<Page: 481>>>

S. Mis. 53. 83
Meteorological returns from the following army posts, received at the office of the Surgeon General U. S. Army, for the use of which the Institution is indebted to thomas Lawson, M. D., Surgeon Gengiat U. S. Army.
Watervleit Arsenal. Mount Vernon Arsenal.
Fort Ontario.
Fort Constitution. Fort Mifflin. Madison Barracks. Fort Preble.
Fort Sullivan. Fort Columbus. Fort Hamilton. Allegheny Arsenal. West Point.
Fort Trumbull. Fort Niagara. Fort Adams. Carlisle Barracks. Plattsburg Barracks. Fort McHenry. Fort Monroe.
Fort Moultrie. Detroit.
Fort Mackinaw. Fort Howard. Fort Gratiot.
Fort Gaines. Newport Barracks.
Oglethorpe Barracks. Key West.
Fort Scott.
St. Louis.
Fort Leavenworth. Fort Kearny.
Fort Martin Scott. Fort Gates.
Fort McIntosh. San Antonio.
Fort Croghan. Fort Washita.
San Diego.
Fort Smith. Jefferson Barracks. Fort Brady.
Fort Lincoln.
Fort Duncan. Ringgold Barracks Fort Brown.
Fort Towson. Fort Gibson.
New Orleans.

<<<Page: 482>>>

84 S. Mis. 53.
The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents the following report relative to the present state of the finances and the expenditures during the year 1852:
They are happy to inform the Board that, after a strict examination of the accounts, they are enabled to present a very satisfactory statement of the present condition of the finances, and the result of the investigations as to the expenditures during the year.
The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest deposited
in the treasury of the United States (from which an
annual income at 6 per cent. interest is derived, of
PSO; O1@) Setar Seis ats a atte = « avela ale felnj-vaveteaial ala ® $515,169 00 There is now on hand, of unexpended interest,
in charge of Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs... .-$208,800 Of this sum it is proposed to expend on the
PMO epg st ies aoa s SS.= iniofneyetete ares oreke 58,800
Which will leave to be added to the principal,
according to the original proposition of Prof. IBAC Ee: o PRas arta ener ee eee ee eres cata 150,000 00
The whole fundewill:-then* bes... dic Jenene 665,169 00
The following is a general view of the receipts and expenditures during the past year:
Receipts.
From the income of the original fund.........-...-...$30,910 14 from interest’onthe ‘extra fundyee fo. ceo see ee 9,129 20
Balance in the hands of the treasurer at the beginning of (ie: Wear Weor J a\octe tee vee = «ccd ienys eine ele 7,296 76 47,336 10
Expenditures.
or the sbaildimesee. 225 m2: eee ~ «ajanmehel ie se) eee $14,047 07 For items common to the general objects of the Institution. 11,505 80 For publications, researches, and lectures. ......-..---12,224 48 For library, museum, and gallery of art............--9,308 26 @alance in the itreasuty,.’... -.. .eiee~ + =< erie == eee aes 250 49 47,336 10
The following is a more detailed statement of the expenditures:

<<<Page: 483>>>

S. Mis. 53.
Statement in relation to the Expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution
during the year 1852.
Building, Furniture, Fixtures, and Grounds.
Pay OCONEE olan s -enems Sosasdaneeasaeedess saree -cdamas Pay of architects, superintendents, &c....-....----.......--. Expenses of Building Committee... -.---0... 220 eee ween ee Miscellaneous incidental to building.......--..----...2------Furniture, &c., for uses in common.... 2.2... ---eee ween
Do. LOT MDRANY an o's cn wei Scjse eee sce ck ee eae eins
Do. TOT AINUSOUM a(S), fee ae os < daceeimarcsae ss GEONN OSs Si oemsn ce ous « Sh ec5 5 cunt ene + sa csisacunic cee
General Expenses.
Expenses of Board of Regents, &c.........--..--.-----eeeLighting and heating-........... SE CO OeeROe HOee eS see OS AEG ea sa ewown oaaica mee wacie aces eee es=*. cae oee eee cues GRTAM DOLLA TION actcoatse.ce ie ciec'sa'c alain sal ceteeinc. < wc m)aco Hee ees ROMRUHONY sec arSe acicniniv de a wiaein a sacs sok aeeees oH 'Sciab aace Goes General printing = oo. 021s. eens ae eee ines tims see Sorento BAU TA TRUE UU Sass rales ete ay eae ee OE woo. c, eee eyes dncidentale, general 222) 28 -2)o01-o ciate otew acleccace se cece ae PAIGE; LONOMM as 5 cian se occ cien nn cucu ae aeasae oc ae wats aes
Publications, Researches, and Lectures.
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. ....-......----.----Reports on progress of knowledge... ..-.-...--. -002. -se0 cos Miherjpublicawonsss<:25 2/22 < oosie< oss atecewce oeescees 35 besos BR OC Salant 30s sha etecte win Snel een ens Rear e ee MIVESAOAUIOMS 221s 2 aoc nares cic su lode acmetawie geese cece WPA VOL LEGUULOEN «=: oicfninicisveisiels noice ab.ccls e's ates ccc See aie Illustrations and apparatus for lectures... -.......-.---.-.---Attendance and lighting, lectures, &c....-..--2..2.-2-.---2--
Library, Museum, and Gallery of Art.
(CLO C0) SEER Sea oS eos eRe prs OTe ROnS OAOner ge oe on Gr ole CHAO GUO acta ates celoete a) nim a =a) omen ae cers Jemine ais as (COPAY BIN CVE SBS Sse Boece mePBDiSs o> scupecmES conc edcoee SGD Os ar COTS SOW Ln See ae = See ICE oo) CORES SP tare [SALES OO) GR SOE SEES =< COee eS Eoe CAIse ier Expenses of collections, museum... -..2220... 25 oe ae cans cose WNGIMENUAIS, MUSEUM .. .<.ccce ee cnc c cee teec PRMIALICR MUNG Wisc cic cclcn.c0 coins sio,< sec ete ais Veiciwints shuts meee
Total expended in 1852
$10, 000 00 1, 839 83
7 50
1,198 64 682 94 265 15
3 56
49 45
267 18 399 70 472 07 1, 827 91 222 38 350 42 844 88 2,821 34 4,299 92
5,736 74 1,616 75 1, 007 86 2,079 88 75 00 1,385 00 230 13 93 12
1,098 77 377 25 52 00
$14, 047 07
12, 224 48
9, 308 26
47,085 61
A general] account of the operations of the Institution is given in the
report of the Secretary, to which the Board are referred. The committee are happy to be able again to assure the Board, that in their opinion the operations are such as to carry out in the most effectual manner the wise and benevolent design of James Smithson, viz: that of “increasing and diffusing knowledge among men.’ ‘The only regret which can be entertained with regard to the present condition of the Institution is, that the funds are so encumbered with the restrictions

<<<Page: 484>>>

86 S. Mis. 53.
imposed upon them by the original charter, that more of the income cannot be devoted to the publications and other active operations. Respectfully submitted : J. ALFRED PEARCE, J. G. TOPTEN, sot Committee. A. D. BACHE,

<<<Page: 485>>>

S. Mis. 53. 87
The Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution presents the following report of its operations duri Ing the past year:
The contract between the Board of Regents and Gilbert Cameron has been declared completed, by Mr. Renwick. It includes the finishifig of the exterior of the entire building, the interior of the extreme wings and connecting ranges, and the Tater uE of the towers, leaving the ‘whole i interior of the main building to be finished. This comprises
a space of two hundred feet long by. fifty wide, and about sixty high, to be divided into a basement an two stories.
Mr. Renwick has presented to the Board his final decision as to the state of accounts between the Regents and the contractor. According to this, there is due to the latter the sum of $11,607 24.
By a resolution of the Board, all the wood-work and framing which now occupies the interior of the main building is to be remov ed, and its place supplied by fire-proof materials. In accordance with the direction of the Regents, the committee have procured plans and estimates of the proposed work, which are herewith submitted for the consideration of the Regents. These plans differ in some respects from the original design of the main building, and the changes are such as materially to improve the edifice, re ndering it more stable and better adapted to the purposes of the Institution, Should the plans presented be adopted, the committee would advise that the new work be commenced as soon as the prelimmary arrangements can be made, and prosecuted as rapidly as the funds will allow. The expe rience ot last year has shown that, beyond a certain degree, the extension of the time of completing the badd ling does not tend to improve the condition of the funds. The cost of superinte ‘dence is in proportion to the time, and not to the work done; and a more advantageous arrangement can be made for finishing the remainder of the building at once than by doing it in det wched portions, unless the whole work be stopped for some years. The present condition of the building would scarcely warrant this measure.
Mr. Renwick, in a letter to the Regents, signified his intention ot declining further services to the Institution unle ss his account for full salary was paid by a specified time. The Board of Regents, considering themselves unauthorized to continue his large sal: uy for an indefinite length of time after the end of the five years, which limited the duration of the original contract, passed a meso ition that his claim should be paid, provide -d he would report as to the state of the account between the Board and the contractor previous to the discontinuance of his services. Mr. Renwick agreed to this proposition, and in accordance with it has prese nted his final report to the Regents.
After Mr. Renwick left the charge of the building the committee employed Captain B. 8. Alexander, of the U. 8. corps of Engineers, to prepare detailed drawings and plans for rendering the remainder of

<<<Page: 486>>>

88 S. Mis. 53.
the building entirely fire-proof. This gentleman is now engaged as superintendent in the erection of the military and naval asylum for the District of Columbia, and is highly recommended to the committee by the officers of the army and navy, as well as by the fact that so important a work has been intrusted to his superintendence.
Should the plans which are herewith submitted to the Board be adopted, the committee would recommend that Captain Alexander be appointed, with the consent of the superior of his corps, to superintend the completion of the building. As he is an officer of the army, on duty in this city, he will be enabled to give daily attention to the work at a comparatively small expense.
lone Committee.

<<<Page: 487>>>

S. Mis. 53. 89
WasHINGToN, June 5, 1852.
The Board of Regents was notified to meet this day at 11 o'clock. A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to August 7, 1852.
Wasuine ton, August 7, 1852.
The Board of Regents met this evening at 7$0’clock. Present: Messrs. Colcock, Fitch, Pearce, and Totten.
Mr. Maury, elected Mayor of Washington, and therefore ex officio Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, appeared and took his seat.
In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce took the chair.
Mr. Fitch, from the Building Committee, presented to the Board a letter from James Renwick, jr., architect, informing the committee that the building, so far as it was embraced in the contract of Mr. Cameron, was completed, and recommending that six thousand dollars be advanced to the contractor from the fifteen per cent. kept back, in advance of Mr. Renwick’s final certificate ; also stating that it would take several days for him to make up his final award.
_ Mr. Fitch stated to the Board that there was now a suit pending between Mr. Cameron and his sub-contractor ; and that though the Institution had no interest in this suit, the Regents had been informed that they were a party to the same. The Building Committee, therefore, thought it advisable to refer this subject to the Board.
In order to obtain further information on this point, it was, on motion, resolved to postpone the consideration until next meeting.
Mr. Fitch, from the Building Committee, also presented an account from Mr. Renwick for services from March 1 to June 1, 1852; which the committee did not feel themselves authorized to pay without an order from the Board. —
Mr. Fitch also presented, from the same committee, a communication from Mr. Renwick to the Board, relative to his compensation, including another account for services to August 1, 1852.

<<<Page: 488>>>

90 S Mis. 53.
Mr. Fitch presented a resolution relative to the payment of the accounts of Mr. Renwick, the consideration of which was postponed to the next meeting.
The Board then adjourned to Monday evening, August 9, at 74 o’clock.
WasuineTon, August 9, 1852.
The Board of Regents met this evening at 73 o’clock. Present: Messrs. Colcock, Mason, Maury, Pearce, and Totten, of the Board, and Mr. Seaton, treasurer; and, by invitation, Mr. Lenox, late Mayor of Washington.
In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce took the chair.
The proposition to advance Mr. Cameron six thousand dollars from the fifteen per cent. retained by the Board was brought up for consideration, and after a full discussion of the same, the following resolution, offered by Mr. Mason, was adopted :
Resolved, That the Building Committee be requested to settle the accounts of Mr. Cameron, pursuant to his contract, and that any balance that may be found due be paid him, unless, in the discretion of the committee, under advice of counsel, it may be deemed prudent by them to pay the money into court, in the pending suit to which the Institution is a party, or to withhold it until further order of the Board.
The resolution offered by Mr. Fitch at the last meeting, relative to the accounts of Mr. Renwick, was taken up; and after being modified by General Totten, was adopted, as follows:
Resolved, That Mr. Renwick, having reported by letter to the Building Committee that the Smithsonian building is completed, be notified that his services as architect are no longer required by the Regents of this Institution, and that the bills he has presented for his services up to the first of August, 1852, will be paid as soon as he shall have rendered to the Regents his final certificate of the completion of the building, according to the terms of the contract with Dixon and Cameron, as modified on the 3d July, 1850; and if the building be not completed, the said bills shall be paid upon the rendition of his certificate showing the extent to which it is completed, and the particulars in which it is unfinished; together with any plans of the building, or papers, belonging to the Institution, which may be in his possession.
Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to pay said bills, in accordance with the foregoing resolution.
The Secretary stated that the expiration of the term of service of Mr. Lenox as a Regent, has caused a vacancy in the Building Committee.
The Chair nominated Mr. Maury to fill the vacancy ; and, on motion, the nomination was confirmed.
The following resolution, offered by Mr. Totten, was adcpted :
Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have heard with deep regret the death of Mr. Andrew J. Downing, late superintendent of the grounds of the Institution.
Resolved, That we entertain a grateful sense of the value of Mr. Downing’s services in the department to which he devoted his life; and

<<<Page: 489>>>

S. Mis. 53. 91
while we bow with submission to this mysterious dispensation of Providence, we feel that his decease is an irreparable loss to this Institution, to the city of Washington, and in general a public calamity.
Resolved, That we tender to the family of the deceased the expression of our sincere sympathy in this time of their affliction.
Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to send a copy of these resolutions to the family of the deceased.
The Board then adjourned sine die.
Wasuineton, January 5, 1853.
In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meeting on the first Wednesday of January of | “each year, the Board met this day in the Regents’ room, over the south entrance of the main building.
Present: Messrs. Mason, Maury, Meacham, Rush, and Totten, of the Board; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer of the Institution. Mr. Charlton, the new member appointed from the Senate U.S8., was present and took his seat at the Board.
In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Rush was called to the chair.
The Secretary informed the Board that there were two vacancies in the list of Regents, and that the Senate had passed a resolution to fil these, which was now before the House of Representatives for concurrence. Also, that there was a vacancy in the Executive Committee, which prevents the drawing of the semi-annual interest from the treasury and the settlement of the accounts of the past year.
‘On motion of Mr. Mason,
Resolved, That the vacancy in the Executive Committee be filled by nomination of the Chair.
Whereupon, Mr. Mason was appointed.
The Secretary informed the Board that the accounts and reports relative to the operations of the last year would be ready for presentation at the next meeting.
Whereupon, the Board adjourned to Saturday the 15th inst., at 10 o’clock a. m.
WasuHINneTon, Junuary 15, 1853.
The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o’clock in the Regents’ room. A quorum not being present, “the meeting adjourned to 22d inst., at 11 ‘o’clock’a. m.

<<<Page: 490>>>

92 S. Mis. 53.
WasuineTon January 22, 1853.
The Board of Regents met this day at 11 o’clock a.m. Present: Messrs. Charlton, Colcock, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Rush, Totten ; Mr. Seaton, treasurer; and Washington Irving, honorary member.
In the absence of the Chancellor, and on motion of Mr. Rush, Mr. Pearce took the chair.
The proceedings of the previous meeting were read and approved.
The Building Committee submitted their report, which was read and adopted.
The Secretary presented the report and final decision of James Renwick, Jr., which was read, and, on motion of General Totten, referred to the Building Committee.
The plans for finishing the central building, by Captain B. 8. Alexander, corps of Engineers U. 8., were presented and examined.
On motion of General Totten, the following resolutions were adopted:
Resolved, That the plans for finishing the interior of the centre building presented by Captain B. S. Alexander, corps Engineers U. S., be adopted by the Board of Regents, reserving the right, in behalf of the Building Committee, of altering the details thereof to such an extent as may seem to them proper as the work proceeds.
Resolved, That Captain Alexander be requested to give to the general supervision of the execution of his plan such time as his public duties will permit, and that he be compensated therefor to such amount as to the Building Committee shall seem just and proper.
The treasurer presented the details of the expenditures; which was, on motion, referred to the Executive Committee.
The Secretary presented his report of the operations of the Institution for the past year; which was, in part, read.
The Board then adjourned to Friday evening next, 28th instant, at 7% o'clock.
WASHINGTON, January 28, 1853.
The Board of Regents met this evening at 8 o’clock in the Regents’ room. Present: Messrs. Bache, Charlton, Coleock, Mason, Meacham, and ‘Totten, of the Board, and Washington Irving, honorary member.
In the absence of the Chancellor, and on motion of Mr. Rush, Mr. Mason took the chair.
The Secretary announced to the Board that Professor A. D. Bache, of Washington, had been re-elected, by a joint resolution of the two houses of Congress, a Regent for six years; and also that the Hon. John Macpherson Berrien, of Georgia, had been elected a Regent for the same term. Mr. Bache being present, took his seat in the Board.
The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
The Secretary made a statement relative to the expedition under the direction of Dr. E. K. Kane, U. 8. Navy, and his want of instruments for magnetic observations in the Arctic seas, referring at the same time to the expedition to Chili, of Lieut. Gilliss, U. S. Navy, to whom a timely and highly useful grant had been made by the Board, under similar circumstances, and which had been reimbursed to the Institution.

<<<Page: 491>>>

S. Mis. 53. 93
Mr. Rush offered the following resolution, which was adopted :
Resolved, That a sum not exceeding five hundred dollars be, and the same is hereby, appropriated for the purchase of philosophical instruments to be used in the new expedition in search of Sir John Franklin in the Arctic seas, and which are to be committed to the charge of Dr. E. K. Kane, of that expedition.
The Secretary presented the application of the Rev. Mr. Dennison for the use of the lecture-room for holding religious service therein, which was referred to the Secretary.
The Secretary presented the case of Stanley’s gallery of Indian portraits, for which, if they should be purchased by the government, the use of the gallery of art was considered necessary as a temporary place of deposit : also referred to the Secretary.
The reading of the annual report was then continued, including the report of Prof. Baird, Assistant Secretary, relative to exchanges.
Mr. Mason expressed a desire to resign his place as member of the Executive Committee, which he had accepted with a view to the reappointment of Mr. Bache as Regent, and his subsequent re-election as a member of the Executive Committee.
The resignation of Mr. Mason was accepted, and Mr. Bache reelected.
A letter was presented from Gilbert Cameron, requesting, on account of his reputation, to be allowed to finish the centre building, and claiming this privilege as a right under his general contract: referred to the Building Committee.
The Board then adjourned to Thursday evening, February 3, at 64 o’clock.
Wasuineton, February 3, 1853.
The Board of Regents met this evening at 8 o’clock. Present: Messrs. Bache, Charlton, Colcock, Mason, Maury, Meacham, and Totten, of the Board, and Washington Irving, honorary member.
Mr. Mason took the chair.
The proceedings of the previous meeting were read and approved.
The Building Committee, to which was referred | the letter of Mr. Cameron relative to his right to the contract for finishing the centre building, reported progress, and presented a communication from Mr. Carlisle upon this subject, which was then referred back to the committee. on
The Secretary presented a plan of a building for a magnetic observatory near the Institution; stating, also, that instruments of the best construction, now in the possession of the Superintendent of the U. S. Coast Survey, would be furnished.
Mr. Colcock offered the following resolution, which was adopted :
Resolved, That a magnetic observatory be erected, under the supervision of the Building Committee, at such place on the grounds of the Institution as they may select, and according to a plan to be approved by them, and that the sum of eleven hundred dollars is hereby appro-
priated therefor.

<<<Page: 492>>>

94 S. Mis. 53.
A communication from Captain Lefroy, R. A., was presented and read, relative to the discontinuance of the magnetic observatory of Toronto, Canada West: referred to the Executive Committee and the Secretary, who were requested to memorialize the British government on the subject.
The correspondence between the Secretary and Mrs. A. J. Downing, upon the transmission of the resolutions of the Board upon receiving information of the death of Mr. Downing, was read.
The Secretary also informed the Board of the recent death of Sears C. Walker, esq., and of Prof. C. B. Adams, of Amherst College, Massachusetts ; whereupon the following resolutions, offered by Mr. Bache, were adopted:
Resolved, 'That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have heard with deep regret the announcement of the death of Sears C. Walker, esq., whose communications in the Smithsonian Transactions on the planet Neptune have attracted the notice and won the approval and admiration of astronomers throughout the world.
Resolved, That the Regents offer to the family of Mr. Walker their condolence on the loss which they have sustained.
Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have heard with regret the decease of their valued correspondent, Prof. C. B. Adams, which occurred at St. Thomas, while he was engaged in making collections in natural history, to which science he was devoted ; and offer to his family the condolence on the loss which they have sustained.
The Board then adjourned, to meet on Saturday, the 12th imst., at 10 o'clock a. m.
Wasuineton, February 12, 1853.
The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o’clock a.m. Present : Messrs. Bache, Fitch, Maury, Meacham, and Pearce, of tke Board, and Washington Irving, honorary member.
On motion, Mr. Pearce took the chair.
The proceedings of the previous meeting were read and approved.
Mr. Bache, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented a letter to be forwarded to the British Home and Colonial governments, to urge the continuance of the Toronto observatory.
The Secretary presented to the consideration of the Board the necessity of making provision for the investment of the surplus fund in the event of the petition now before Congress relative to it not being acted on.
‘The Chair stated it to be the opinion of Mr. Corcoran, who had been present, that the State stocks of North Carolina would be a suitable and safe means of investment: referred to the Executive Committee.
The Secretary presented for the examination of the Board a manuscript memoir, by J. A. Lapham, relative to the mounds of Wisconsin, received from the American Antiquarian Society of Worcester, and mentioned in the sixth Annual Report.
The Secretary presented the case of the late Prof. C. B. Adams, whose draft for one hundred and fifty dollars had been honored by the

<<<Page: 493>>>

S. Mis. 53. 95
Institution. A letter from Thomas Bland, esq., on the part of the family of Prof. A., was read, offering to ehind the money or send to the Institution a portion of the collections in natural history made by Prof. Adams in his last expedition.
The subject was referred to the Secretary, with the understanding that the collections be accepted, and that the repayment of the money be not required from the executors of Prof. Adams.
The Secret ary pre eseuted the ae ct of the compensation of Dr..J. G. Fliigel, of Leipsic, the agent for Smithsonian exchanges in Central Europe.
The following resolution, offered by Mr. Bache, was adopted :
Resolved, 'T hat the compensation of Dr. J. G. Fliigel, agent at Leipsic for the reception and distribution of publications on the part of the Smithsonian Institution for Central America, be thrée hundred dollars per annum until otherwise ordered by the Board.
The reading of the Secretary’s report was continued, including an account of the operations in meteorology SHOE the past year; “also including the operations relative to the library >, under the care of Prof. Jewett.
An extensive collection of MS. bills, inventories, and other accounts of business in private English families, from 1632 to 1750, in fifty-four volumes, presented by Mr. J. O. Hall ively was laid on the table for examination ; and, on motion, the following resolution was adopted:
Resoleed, That the Secretary be requested to transmit to Mr. J. O. Halliwell, of London, an expression of the grateful sense entertained by the Board of Regents of the munificent eit received from him, and of the honor done ihe Institution by selecting it as a place of deposit for these interesting documents.
The operations of the stereotyping department were presented by the Secretary, and a statement made of its c: ipability of preparing and printing catalogues of all the libraries in the United States.
On motion, the following preamble and resolution were adopted :
Whereas a plan for stere otyping catalogues by separate titles, and for preparing and printing the catalogues of the various libraries in the United States in uniform style, and at greatly diminished cost, as well as for forming a general catalogue of all these libraries, was presented to the Smithsonian Institution and ref ferred to two commissions—one to report upon the literary advantages of f the plan, and the other upon
the practicability of the means proj nosed for its execution:
And whereas, on the recommendation of these commissions, the Smithsonian Institution has incurred the expense of procuring type and apparatus, of educating wor kmen, and of deve ‘loping and pertecting processes to be employe ed, so that all arrangements are now made for the successful prosecution of the work :
And whereas the first commission appointed to examine the plan, in their re port, rec ommended that, ‘In order that a beginning might be made in the execution of the plan under circumstances highly favorable to its success, the undersigned take the liberty of suggesting that it would be advisable for the Regents of the Smithsonian Tnstitution to obtain the requisite authority to prepare a catalogue of the library of Congress on the above described plan :” Therefore,

<<<Page: 494>>>

96 S. Mis. 53.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Institution be requested to call the attention of the Library Committee of Congress to the above described plan, to inform them that the Institution is now ready 1o execute the proposed work, and to invite their co-operation in aid of an enterprise so important to the library of Congress, to all the libraries in the country, and to the great object of this Institution, ‘‘the increase and diffusion of knowledge.”
Mr. Pearce, as chairman, presented from the Executive Committee their annual report in relation to the finances and expenditures of the Institution during the year 1852.
The Board then adjourned, to meet at the call of the Secretary.
For the date of Professor Henry’s letter transmitting Report, read “ March 1, 1853,” instead of “ August 20, 1852.”

<<<Page: 495>>>



<<<Page: 496>>>



<<<Page: 497>>>



<<<Page: 498>>>



<<<Page: 499>>>



<<<Page: 500>>>

ne A
: e A ;
Meal nae : i.
Cae:
hap G Hy al A
Te ME EE CE j Car Cx CS Ce CML EAE EC <a
s “a «
. <_
CREE EE P< CCE ay CORES
soe Se a BLE EE RO EELS
Paes <_<. Co CME EEE
ce aes c&
Se ae [= . ce <

<<<Page: 501>>>

AK 8 8 Cn cae << r
Ss t ck 5S CE, KEE CG
iW A
1 Ry
f A va ‘A fA AR Mn 1,
ail NADA RARALA LN
SSE AES SGC aE EE ee” ECC CHES, ES ei a S. aS
avalain
CCce Set <a =
CKi KERR aac’ <
Co i EC Ce Re. S a << eC <a a
rat CC cq a
; < Cc < : . : et :
c <oe
GG a: ae
GaP ae Ce BS ar a, i a ; Claw ; gig <. CLS SS ce a EE OE EEK, CE So ccc < pS a ae ae ME CELE EE
= mt << tm,
< Ke
SS eS
as = ae, << <
wr wi ca, =

<<<Page: 502>>>

3 9088 01421 6139

<<<Page: 503>>>



<<<Page: 504>>>

3 voeN : . ; ‘ 5 4 is — ‘ 4 3 * . . ee sor Site ; \ , z ws e : at 5 2 & e 3 oes rte . a Ft _ 3 v Pe Y — — “ . ‘ ) ~~ ek > ' — — : , Pn : % ~ > . ; & wees a — + . te 7 5 ¢ ns ‘i y ~~ ~ 4 : : —s ’ monn 1 ° = ‘ J , ms . Capten : . i . ie, ; ‘ . he — aie , , . , ore sy « s = FE] E] EJ ie FA in — — , Pie ey . "7 . a 3 > ; . RS . q ‘ tee . 5 e : ’ . Sa, te. bi i
an 1
r » ; F ss, .
= i . 7 * oe % iy a, 4 3 ad C — = 1 ae : ’ . : .% ; . Se 7" Lon — ‘ . ‘ » ™ © ‘ . . » : % % 5 > > < é m ; = x “ a aS < . ‘ nerd . : ~*~ 5 : -' @ 7 Z ei . ~ ‘ x v ; re . aac = Pa Zz 7 = . . hs ’ Pa : = we ; ad ~ us ; . a ’ » By ig ~ : : A é = 2, “x i e yy 2 * ‘.

<<<Page: 505>>>



<<<Page: 506>>>



<<<Page: 507>>>

