<<<Page: 1>>>



<<<Page: 2>>>

wt _S

<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>

The United States
National Museum
Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1958

<<<Page: 5>>>

June 30, 1958
United States National Museum
Director: Remington Kellogg Registrar: Helena M. Weiss Office of Exhibits: Frank A. Taylor, Chief
John C. Ewers, Administrative officer; John E. Anglim, supervisory exhibits specialist; William L. Brown, chief zoological exhibits specialist; Rolland O. Hower, Benjamin W. Lawless, Bela 8. Bory, exhibits specialists; Joseph G. Weiner, publications writer.
Museum of Natural History
Acting Director: Remington Kellogg Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator
A. Joseph Andrews, exhibits specialist
ArcHEoLocy: Waldo R. Wedel, curator Marshall T. Newman, associate curaClifford Evans, Jr., associate curator tor Ralph §. Solecki, associate curator ErHnotocy: Saul H. Riesenberg, acting Puystcan AntTHRopoLoGy: TT. Dale curator Stewart, curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator
Department of Zoology: Herbert Friedmann, acting head curator
Mammats: David H. Johnson, curator Brros: Herbert Friedmann, curator
Henry W. Setzer, associate curator Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate Insrcts: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator curator Oscar L. Cartwright, associate curator Reprires AND AmpHIBIANS: Doris M. William D. Field, associate curator Cochran, curator Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., associate curator Marine INVERTEBRATES: Fenner A. Sophy Parfin, junior entomologist Chace, Jr., curator Fisues: Leonard P. Schultz, curator Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator Thomas EH. Bowman, associate curatoWilliam R. Taylor, associate curator Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate cur Motuusxs: Harald A. Rehder, curator rator Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate curator
Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator
PHANEROGAMS: Lyman B. Smith, Grasses: Jason R. Swallen, curator curator Ferns: Conrad V. Morton, curator Emery C. Leonard, associate curator Cryproagams: Conrad V. Morton, acting Egbert H. Walker, associate curator curator Velva E. Rudd, associate curator Paul S$. Conger, associate curator Richard $8. Cowan, associate curator Mason EH. Hale, associate curator

<<<Page: 6>>>

Department of Geology: Gustav A. Cooper, head curator
MINERALOGY AND PETROLOGY: George S. Switzer, curator Edward P. Henderson, associate curator Paul E. Desautels, associate curator Roy 8. Clarke, Jr., chemist VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. Lewis Gazin, curator
David H. Dunkle, associate curator
Peter P. Vaughn, associate curator
Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits specialist INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND Pa-
LEOBOTANY: Gustay A. Cooper, curator
Richard $8. Boardman, associate curator
Porter M. Kier, associate curator
Museum of History and Technology
Director: Frank A. Taylor
Administrative Officer: John C. Ewers
Administrative Assistant: William EK. Boyle
Department of Science and Technology: Robert P. Multhauf, head curator
PuysicaL Scrences: Robert P. Multhauf, curator MECHANICAL AND Civin ENGINEERING: Eugene §S. Ferguson, curator; in charge of Section of Tools Edwin A. Battison, associate curator, Sections of Light Machinery and Horology Robert M. Vogel, assistant curator, Sections of Heavy Machinery and Civil Engineering HLECTRICITY: W. James King, acting curator TRANSPORTATION: Howard I. Chapelle, curator; in charge of Sections of
Marine Transportation and Land Transportation Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator AGRICULTURE AND Woop PrRopucts: William N. Watkins, curator; in charge of Section of Wood Products Edward C. Kendall, associate curator, Section of Agricultural Industries Mepicat Scrences: George B. Griffenhagen, curator; in charge of Sections of Pharmaceutical History and
Health
John B. Blake, associate curator, Section of Medical and Dental History
Department of Arts and Manufactures: Philip W. Bishop, head curator
INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION: Philip W. Bishop, curator
TextTILEs: Grace L. Rogers, curator
CERAMICS AND Guass: Paul V. Gardner, acting curator
acting
GrapHic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator Alexander J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator, Section of photography Fuller O. Griffith, assistant curator
Department of Armed Forces History: Mendel L. Peterson, head curator
Navat History: Mendel L. Peterson, curator
Minirary History: Edgar M. Howell, acting curator
Craddock R. curator
Goins, Jr., assistant

<<<Page: 7>>>

Department of Civil History: Anthony N. B. Garvan, head curator Mrs. Margaret C. Clark, assistant curator
PourricaL History: Wileomb E. Washburn, acting curator Mrs. Margaret Brown associate curator Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator
Kapthor,
Mrs. Anne W. Murray, assistant curator PHILATELY AND Posrat History:
Francis J. McCall, assistant curator
CuttuRAL History: C. Maleolm Watkins, acting curator G. Carroll Lindsay, associate curator Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator Numismatics: Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, assistant curator
Honorary Smithsonian Fellows, Collaborators, Associates, Custodians of Collections, and Honorary Curators
Anthropology
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Anthropology
Neil M. Judd, Anthropology
Herbert W. Krieger, Anthropology
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology
Zoology
Paul Bartsch, Mollusks
M. A. Carriker, Jr., Insects
Carl J. Drake, Insects
Isaac Ginsberg, Fishes
D. C. Graham, Biology
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Crayfishes
A. Brazier Howell, Mammals
W. L. Jellison, Insects
W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera
J. Perey Moore, Marine Invertebrates
Carl F. W. Muesebeck, Insects
Waldo L. Schmitt, Marine Invertebrates
Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology
C. R. Shoemaker, Zoology
R. E. Snodgrass, Insects
Thomas E. Snyder, Isoptera
Alexander Wetmore, Birds
Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod Crustacea
Botany
Agnes Chase, Grasses Ellsworth P. Killip, Phanerogams
Floyd A. McClure, Grasses
John A. Stevenson, Fungi
Geology
Ray $. Bassler, Paleontology
Roland W. Brown, Paleobotany
Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleontology
J. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Pale. ontology *John B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate
Paleontology
C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate PaleW. T. Schaller, Mineralogy
ontology
bok)
Arts and Manufactures
F. L. Lewton, Textiles
Tlistory
Elmer C. Herber, History Carroll Quigley, History *Deceased July 1958.
FF. W. Mekkay, Numismatics Paul A. Straub, Numismatics

<<<Page: 8>>>

Annual Report of the Director
United States National Museum
Washington, D. C., August 15, 1958.
Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1958. Very respectfully, RemiIneton KeELioae,
Director, U. S. National Museum.
Dr. LronarpD CARMICHAEL, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Contents
INTRODUCTION . EXHIBITS ACCESSIONS BAK CARE OF COLLECTIONS : INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Anthropology Zoology . Botany Geoloryiewe ere ais yc Science and Technology . Arts and Manufactures Civil History air Armed Forces History PUBLICATIONS AS CORDA See Ua 0 eee Donors To THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS .
“I ~J xI
ioe) NO 86 Foo
co oO O1

<<<Page: 9>>>

Architectural rendition by Hugh Ferriss of the Museum of History and Technology, now under construction, viewed from Constitution Avenue.
Introduction
Rapid progress in planning the building for the Museum of History and Technology permitted the date for the start of construction to be advanced to the summer of 1958. The architects for the building, McKim, Mead and White, submitted drawings for the entire building in the tentative stage, made excellent progress on the working drawings, and completed the specifications and drawings for the excavation and foundations. At the close of the fiscal year, temporary buildings on the site were being demolished to clear the land for ground breaking in August.
The design of the building previously approved by the Board of Regents, with the advice of the Joint Congressional Committee, was approved unanimously by the Commission of Fine Arts. The National Capital Planning Commission approved the location of the building on the site. Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Chairman, Joint Committee on Construction of a Building for the Museum of History and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution, reviewed the legislative history of the building and the progress made in its design in the report, submitted to the United States Senate (Senate No. 1437, 85th Congress, 2nd Session, April 16, 1958), which follows:
The Joint Congressional Committee on Construction of a Building for a Museum of History and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution submits this report on the progress of the planning and construction of the building, pursuant to section 4 of Publie Law 106 (84th Cong., 69 Stat. 189).

<<<Page: 10>>>

This act, approved June 28, 1955, authorized appropriations of not to exceed $36 million to carry out the provisions of the act.
The Supplemental Appropriation Act of 1956, approved August 4, 1955, provided the Smithsonian Institution with funds for the preparation of plans and specifications for the building in the amount of $2,288,000.
On January 13, 1956, the Board of Regents selected the firm of McKim, Mead & White as architects for the building. On March 16, 1956, the Government entered into a contract with this firm.
On May 14, 1956, the joint committee organized and selected Senator Clinton P. Anderson as chairman, and Hon. John M. Vorys as secretary. Prior to this time, the members of the committee had each approved individually the selection of the architects.
At the meeting of the joint committee, June 12, 1956, the architects presented to the committee scale models of more than 20 designs of buildings which they had developed. The committee examined these as they were successively placed on a model of the Mall, which included the Federal Triangle and other buildings bordering upon the Mall. The committee recommended that two of the designs be studied further and a subsequent report be made by the architects.
The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriation Act of 1957, approved June 13, 1956, provided the remainder of the authorized funds totaling $33,712,000 for the construction of the building.
At a meeting on July 16, 1956, the joint committee considered the report ot the architects on the design studies requested. The members recommended further study with particular reference to the functional use and interior arrangement of the building. The committee requested that the results be presented to the committee at a meeting to be called after the convening of the 85th Congress.
At a meeting held February 5, 1957, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution informed the joint committee that studies of the 2 schemes made by the Smithsonian staff, with the assistance of the architects, indicated that 1 scheme
Detail of the Museum of History and Technology, Constitution Avenue side, under evening illumination. Rendition by Hugh Ferriss.

<<<Page: 11>>>

was superior in utility. The joint committee was informed that this design also was preferred by the architects and by certain members of the Commission of Fine Arts who had had occasion to comment on it. This was also the design which had received informal preference by members of the joint committee at earlier meetings. The joint committee voted unanimously to advise the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution of the committee’s preference for this design.
The building is of a rectangular shape, having an extended first floor which provides a terrace around the base of the mass containing the upper floors. The exterior walls of the building above the terrace are broken by repeated wide flat bays and recesses which relate in scale to the design of the buildings of the Federal Triangle across Constitution Avenue. The committee was informed that the National Capital Planning Commission had an opportunity to view a model of the building on the model of the Mall and had tentatively approved the proposed placement of the building on the site.
After several meetings and an exchange of advices between the committee and the Regents of the Smithsonian concerning construction costs and building size, the committee on July 2, 1957, advised the Regents to plan a building of approximately 13 million cubic feet, which it is estimated can be built within the appropriated funds. It is recognized that, as planned from the first, funds for cases and related interior equipment of the building will be requested by the Smithsonian in its annual budget estimates as such equipment is needed.
The joint committee has been informed that the Regents have acted to accept the advice of the committee and that since July the architects have developed diagrammatic designs of the building and submitted further tentative drawings. The architects are now at work upon detailed drawings and procedures necessary to produce the specifications for the building. It is expected that bids for the construction of the building will be requested late in 1958.
The committee is informed also that the Commission of Fine Arts meeting November 21, 1957, to view scale models of the design, were unanimously of the

<<<Page: 12>>>

opinion that the design is a handsome one and expressed themselves as glad to approve it as shown in the models.
The National Capital Planning Commission meeting December 6, 1957, approved the location of the building on the site.
Planning for the interior of the Museum also was accelerated. Designs for most of the exhibition halls requiring special architectural treatment were completed by the Museum staff, and the architects prepared working drawings for many of them.
John C. Ewers, ethnologist and administrative officer, directed the Museum staff planning of all interior areas. Eugene Kingman, Director of the Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, reviewed many of the exhibition plans and contributed constructive criticism of them.
The Museum of Natural History and the Museum of History and Technology were established as the two elements of the United States National Museum. Frank A. Taylor was appointed Director, Museum of History and Technology.
Congress appropriated funds for the design and the preparation of working drawings for the construction of additions to the Natural History Building. The architects, Mills, Petticord and Mills, submitted tentative drawings with a model of the building and made
Architectural rendition showing the existing building of the Museum of Natural History, viewed from Constitution Avenue, with the proposed new wings added.

<<<Page: 13>>>



<<<Page: 14>>>



<<<Page: 15>>>

excellent progress with the working drawings. The Museum committee for the planning of the wings, under the chairmanship of Dr. T. Dale Stewart, together with the individual curators, all under the personal direction of Dr. Remington Kellogg, Assistant Secretary and Director of the United States National Museum, compiled a detailed program of requirements which contributed essentially to the rapid progress of the plans. The Commission of Fine Arts approved the design of the building as shown in the architects’ model, and the National Capital Planning Commission approved the location of the wings on the site.
Throughout the year’s planning of the two building projects, the Public Buildings Service of the General Services Administration contributed valuable advice and assistance in advancing, coordinating, and approving the plans. Leonard L. Hunter, Assistant Commissioner for Design and Construction, gave wise counsel and _ professional direction to the progress of the work through its various technical stages and presented the buildings before the approving agencies. Many of his colleagues gave the work their valued attention.
John E. Cudd, architect of the Public Buildings Service, assigned as laison to the Smithsonian Institution, contributed greatly to all phases of the two projects, assembling data on requirements, advising the Museum staff on the arrangement of their planned facilities, and assisting the architects in arranging discussions and obtaining decisions on many questions of design and procedures.
Funds Allotted
From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year 1958, the sum of $2,491,144 was obligated by the United States National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geological materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering, industry, graphic arts, and history (this amount includes sums expended for the program of exhibits modernization).

<<<Page: 16>>>

Exhibits
No aspect of the museum’s varied activities illustrates so concretely as does the exhibits program the results that can be achieved through the cooperative efforts of many talented individuals. Into this complex program are channeled the specialized knowledge and skills of curators, designers, reviewing specialists, artists and technicians, and of museum aids and service personnel. The results certainly testify to the quality of this cooperation and augur well for the future progress of this activity, for public interest in—and enthusiasm for— the modernized halls that have been reopened has been most satisfying. During this fifth year of the continuing modernization program were opened the hall of health, the hall of North American Indians and Eskimos, the second of two halls portraying native peoples of the Americas, and the hall of military history. Eleven halls have now been renovated and two were nearing completion at year’s end.
Under the over-all coordination and supervision of the exhibits committee of which Dr. Herbert Friedmann is chairman, the renovation program continues to move forward with John E. Anglim, chief exhibits specialist, in charge of the design and preparation of exhibits, ably assisted by Rolland O. Hower, exhibits specialist, and William L. Brown, chief taxidermy exhibits specialist in the Museum of Natural History, and Benjamin W. Lawless, in charge of exhibits work for the Arts and Industries Building. Design of the new halls has been greatly aided by Eugene EK. Witherell, director of the architectural and structural division of the Public Buildings Service and the General Services Administration and Harry T. Wooley, design architect of that agency.
The development of exhibit plans for the Museum of History and Technology, being coordinated by John C. Ewers, administrative officer, has thus far resulted in the completion of 22 hall designs, blueprints of which have been furnished the architects so that all built-in features may be specified in their working drawings for the building. The next step in exhibits development involves the planning of individual exhibit units for design and production, and curators’ plans for four halls have advanced to this stage. The production laboratory which, under Bela S. Bory, is preparing modernized exhibits for the Arts and Industries building, will create these exhibits for the Museum of History and Technology. Meanwhile the modernization program has been coordinated with the development of exhibits

<<<Page: 17>>>

for the new museum so that exhibits installed in the Arts and Industries building may be readily transferred to the Museum of History and Technology when that structure is completed.
During the year Joseph George Weiner, publications writer, assumed responsibility for the editing of all exhibits labels, Eugene Kingman, director of the Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, Nebr., aided both curators and designers as exhibits planning consultant, and in May, Carroll Lusk, museum lighting specialist of Richmond, Va., began a period of service as exhibits lighting consultant.
Anthropology
On the evening of December 8, 1957, Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd, administrative assistant to the director of the museum and herself of Seneca Indian descent, cut a ribbon to open formally the second Indian hall to the public. In the dedication ceremony Dr. Leonard Carmichael paid tribute to the many farsighted men and women who, over a period of a century and a half, collected the ethnological specimens displayed in this hall. With an adjoining hall depicting the Indians of California, the Southwest, and Latin America, renovated in 1955, this completes the modernization of exhibits interpreting the ethnology of the Americas.
Exhibits in this hall portray the traditional cultures of the Eskimos and of the Indians of the Subarctic region, the Eastern Woodlands,

<<<Page: 18>>>

The New World peoples showed’ a high degree of imagination and skill in using the resources
of their environment.
At the conjunction of the two halls dealing with the Native Peoples of the Americas stands this map mural, painted by exhibits specialist Frank Dobias. It illustrates the high degree of imagination and skill shown by the Indians and Eskimos in using the resources of their environment.
An Eskimo family, one of the old ethnic groups given a new setting in the renovated hall of North American Indians and Eskimos. This is the second of the two halls constituting the Museum's treatment of the Native Peoples of the Americas.

<<<Page: 19>>>

te ‘ ae oe : Capt. John Smith trading with the Powhatan Indians on the James River. This life group was originally made for a Smithsonian exhibit in the 1907 Jamestown Exposition at Norfolk, Va.
Examples of woodland Indian craftsmanship are displayed in the new hall.

<<<Page: 20>>>

Everyday life of a typical Plains Indian family is portrayed by the central feature of the new hall—an authentic Arapaho tipi, over 80 years old, originally shown at the Philadelphia Centennial Exposition in 1876.
< The feather headdress worn by the Plains Indian has been adopted by many tribes for ceremonial wear.

<<<Page: 21>>>

Exhibits on Indian warfare range from the handsomely carved wooden helmets of the Northwest Coast Indians (top right) to the Winchester rifle belonging to Chief Sitting Bull (top left, bottom of case}. The displays show many aspects of the daily life of the various cultural groups, such as the farm implements of the river valley farmers of the Plains (bottom left), as well as of their exotic customs, such as the potlatch of the Northwest Coast Indians (bottom right).

<<<Page: 22>>>

479802—58

<<<Page: 23>>>

the Great Plains, the Northwestern Plateau and the North Pacific Coast, pointing out these peoples’ uses of the natural resources of their respective environments in their daily lives, their arts and crafts, and their religious ceremonies. Among the historically significant objects on display are Sitting Bull’s rifle, a war club collected by the Lewis and Clark expedition, and the Great Wampum Belt symbolizing the union of mid-western tribes formed by the Shawnee chief Tecumseh to halt the advance of white settlement.
A feature of this hall is a life-size group which portrays the home life of an average Arapaho Indian family about 75 years ago. While the warrior and his wife entertain visitors inside a completely furnished tipi—which stands more than 17 feet high on a pole foundation coyered with 14 buffalo skins carefully pieced and sewn together—the children play with their toys outside, and a woman prepares pemmican from dried meat and wild cherries. Other life-size groups depict Polar Eskimos hunting seal and Powhatan Indians trading with Captain John Smith on the James River in 1607. <A group of carved and painted wooden masks are dramatically ighted to simulate the firelight conditions under which they were worn in Northwest Coast
This Kwaikiutl mask is one of a group of ceremonial masks strikingly displayed in a darkened case to suggest their use by the Northwest Coast Indians, who use them to act out their folk tales around the evening fire in their great plank houses.

<<<Page: 24>>>

Indian ceremonies reenacting adventures in tribal mythology. <A large mural depicts the remarkable ingenuity of the new world aborigines and their important contributions to world civilization. This hall was planned under the scientific direction of John C. Ewers, museum administrative officer and former associate curator of ethnology. The exhibits were designed and prepared by artists of the exhibits staff under the supervision of exhibits specialist Rolland O. Hower.
Curator of Archeology Waldo R. Wedel developed plans for the modernization of the two halls devoted to North American archeology, and Peter DeAnna completed the layout of exhibits in these halls. During the coming year new exhibits will be installed in one hall to explain the archeological horizons from the Southwestern United States, the Pacific Coast, and Arctic America. Another series will illustrate general topics of perennial interest to the visiting public, such as native mines and quarries, Indian stone-shaping methods, native smoking devices of America, and EKuro-american trade items found in Indian sites. Owing to limitations of storage and working space, it has been necessary to close both halls while the work is in progress.
Zoology
Construction of walls and cases in the two halls to be devoted to interpreting the ‘‘World of Mammals” were nearing completion in June. Associate curator Henry W. Setzer prepared exhibits scripts, including labels, for all case units. Robert C. Hogue, dioramist, completed preliminary models of the habitat groups, and the taxidermists mounted 40 mammal specimens and prepared many accessories which will appear in the mammal groups. Necessary renovation of other previously exhibited specimens is in progress and new specimens needed for the exhibits have been procured.
Geology
At year’s end artists of the exhibits staff were completing the installation of modernized exhibits in the gems and minerals hall. This new hall was planned by curator George S. Switzer and associate curator Paul E. Desautels in cooperation with exhibits specialist Rolland O. Hower. ‘The systematic minerals collection is displayed in a series of 3-section cases specially designed by Mr. Hower to provide excellent lighting with a minimum of reflections. Gems are shown in a room richly paneled in walnut. Uncut crystals of gem minerals displayed with the cut stones will add interest to these exhibits. This hall is scheduled to be reopened in July 1958.
In February renovation of the exhibit halls of fossil invertebrates and fossil fishes was undertaken. Plans for all new exhibits except

<<<Page: 25>>>

Lesmena, a1 « coctecanth, has an ancety spanning # fone interval of 325 miion year, Jonge: than that of any ether cabegory of Rectboned ental This dartnetion i shares ith the shacks and « certen few pomive booyide filers Hn the only bing member Belonging to thet
ico gare rae to oll the Lerisetotes
grow of ftaher ety
A cast of the "living fossil" fish Latimeria, the most unusual vertebrate discovery of recent years, is now exhibited in the foyer of the Museum of Natural History.
those in paleobotany were prepared by head curator Gustav A. Cooper and David H. Dunkle, associate curator of vertebrate paleontology. Four colorful and instructive new habitat groups, being prepared for this installation by George Marchand of Ann Arbor, Mich., will portray the life of the Upper Ordovician, Lower Devonian, Mississippian (featuring crinoids), and Upper Cretaceous.
Preparation of exhibit materials in the laboratory progressed. F. L. Pearce, chief of the laboratory, nearly completed the restoration and mounting of the previously flattened and composite arthrodire skull. G.D.Guadagni prepared the strikingly large fish Xzphactinus from the Cretaceous of Texas. T. B. Ruhoff has worked out braincases of pycnodont, scaumenacid, and macropetalichthid fishes, and K. F. Hauschildt completed several small fishes to be displayed on slabs. J. E. Ott prepared exhibits of the fish Dipteruws and Coccosteus, he mounted the skull of Oricotus, an embolomerous amphibian from the Pennsylvanian beds of Ohio, and also prepared and made the necessary restoration of a skeleton of the Oligocene horse Mesohippus, which will be exhibited in the renovated hall of fossil mammals.
A group of attractive mineral specimens from Arizona and a large mass of uranium ore from Colorado were exhibited in the United States Pavilion at the Brussels World’s Fair.
The general layout of the hall of oceanic life has been approved and detailed planning of exhibits for this hall has begun. Exhibits spe

<<<Page: 26>>>

cialist Thomas G. Baker has worked closely with the committee of curators in developing the design of this hall. John C. Widener completed the scale model of a blue whale and assisted Mr. Baker in preparing plans for the construction of the 100-foot life-size whale replica which will be a feature exhibit in the hall.
A cast of the “living fossil’? Latimeria, the coelacanth from the western Indian ocean, was placed on exhibition in the foyer. This fish, the most remarkable vertebrate discovery of recent years, represents the stock that may have given rise to land vertebrates many millions of years ago.
Science and Technology
Four years of exhibition planning and development culminated in the opening of the new hall of health on the evening of November 2, 1957. Official ceremonies featured addresses by Dr. John D. Porterfield, Deputy Surgeon General of the Public Health Service, Dr. Fred L. Soper, Director of the Pan American Sanitary Bureau, and Secretary Leonard Carmichael. The distinguished members of the committee of consultants who assisted curator George B. Griffenhagen in planning the content ot the hall were introduced. Architectural design was by Benjamin W. Lawless; graphic design by Paul C. Batto.
Man’s knowledge of his body through the ages is the theme of this hall, which contrasts old ideas with current knowledge of human anatomy and physiology. Emphasis throughout is on health rather than disease, and full use is made of modern exhibit techniques to show how the normal, healthy human body is put together and how it functions. Thus the hall of health supplements existing exhibits interpreting the history of medical, dental, and pharmaceutical instruments and technology. <A center of attraction in the new hall is a transparent figure of a woman, which by means of electronics, light, and sound shows the location of the major organs of the body and explains their functions. Other push-button exhibits illustrate the inside of the human heart, the anatomy of the human tooth, location and action of the endocrine glands, and the functioning of the brain, as illustrated by a baseball player at bat. Historical units include detailed reproductions of votive offerings, ancient manuscripts, and pages from the earliest printed books—all illustrating embryology, the skeleton, the heart, the brain, and the digestive system as our ancestors knew them.
Associate curator Edward C. Kendall and exhibits designer Michael L. Yoffe completed plans for the modernization of the hall of agricul-_ ture and a contract for its renovation was awarded in June.
During the latter half of the fiscal year the designs of 11 exhibition halls for the Museum of History and Technology were perfected by

<<<Page: 27>>>

In the new hall of health visitors learn how the human body functions. Here a family listens to father's heart beat on an electronic stethoscope and see it represented visually on an oscilloscope.
Inasmall theater (below) filmstrips on health subjects are shown.

<<<Page: 28>>>

A series of panel displays "FREELY MOVABLE JOINTS explain the functioning of the joints.
Young people (below) can check their height against the national average for their age group and sex.
A series of exhibits in circular floor cases show a sequence of stages in human fetal
life.

<<<Page: 29>>>

Feature of the new hall of health, located in the Arts and Industries building, is the "transparent woman. As a taped lecture locates and indicates the function of the principal internal organs and other structures, the part named lights up.
exhibits designers guided by scripts written by the curators detailing the subject matter requirements for these halls as follows:
Fall Curator Designer Chemistry ... .. . Robert P. Multhauf. . Benjamin W. Lawless Civil Engineering . . . Robert M. Vogel. . . . Ronald J. Tavares Hlecinicityae seen 2 We James Kane.) Bright Ne Sprnemen Health. ...... . George Griffenhagen. . Michael L. Yoffe Heavy Machinery . . . Robert M. Vogel. . . . Benjamin W. Lawless History of Dentistry. . John B. Blake. . . .. Michael Yoffe History of Medicine. . John B. Blake. . . .. Michael Yoffe History of Pharmacy. . George Griffenhagen. . Michael Yoffe Light Machinery. . . . Edwin A. Battison. . . Bright N. Springman Physics and Astronomy. Derek J. Price Benjamin W. Lawless
(consultant).
Watercraft .... .. Howard I. Chapelle. . Ronald J. Tavares
Curator of engineering Eugene 8. Ferguson completed a script for the hall of tools, which is being designed by Bright N. Springman, and progress was also made in the planning and design of the halls of autos and coaches and of railroads for the new museum.

<<<Page: 30>>>

EXHIBITS ill
Five temporary exhibits displayed in the hall of health were donated by the American Dental Association, the American Nurses’ Association, Inc., the American Pharmaceutical Association, and The American Red Cross. Four loan exhibits from the National Library of Medicine were placed on display. The pictorial exhibit on the history of surgery, donated by the American Cyanamid Company, was renovated. Existing exhibits were improved during the year through the restoration of the Henry electromagnet and the Morse telegraph, the renovation of the collection of antique astrolabes, sun dials, and compasses, and the renovation of the Howard tower clock. Ship models in the watercraft hall were repaired and restored as time permitted.
Arts and Manufactures
Renovation of the graphic arts exhibits in the connecting range of the Smithsonian building was nearing completion at year’s end, with reopening of the revised hall, illustrating the history and methods of printmaking by various hand processes, scheduled for July 1958. Scripts for this hall and an adjoining one, interpreting photomechanical processes employed in graphic arts, were written by curator Jacob Kainen. The hall layout and the designs for special exhibits cases and fixtures were by Bright N. Springman. The graphics designer was Judith Borgogni. The exhibits in these two halls will eventually be transferred to the Museum of History and Technology where they will form part of a large hall of graphic arts.
Jn accordance with plans by acting curator of textiles Grace Rogers and exhibits designer Thaddeus O. McDowell, a modernized textile hall is being developed in the south hall of the Arts and Industries building to interpret the history of textiles and to show how they have been made. Paul C. Batto completed the graphic design of these exhibits. Five full-size textile machines were renovated for exhibition and a scale model of James Hargreave’s original spinning jenny was built in the exhibit laboratory from the specifications in Hargreave’s patent of 1770. The exhibits will be installed and the hall reopened early in the winter of fiscal 1959.
Leather and saddlery displays in the south hall gallery were reinstalled in the east side of the inorganic chemistry hall, and renovation of the area to display methods of printing fabrics, specimens of needlework, and the history of the sewing machine was commenced. A demountable system of panels and cases is being employed in these modernized halls so that the exhibits may be readily transferred and reinstalled in the Museum of History and Technology. With this in mind, the hall of textiles in the new building has been designed by Mr. McDowell from Miss Rogers’ script.

<<<Page: 31>>>

Exhibits planning for the Museum of History and Technology has also included the design of the following halls:
Hall Curator Designer Ceramics . Paul V. Gardner . Dorothy Guthrie Glass . Paul V. Gardner . ; Dorothy Guthrie Photography Alexander Wedderburn Anne Karras
Head curator Philip W. Bishop completed a script for the hall of petroleum, on the west side of the southwest range of the Arts and Industries building, which is to be renovated with the cooperation of petroleum industry. With the assistance of exhibits designer Thaddeus O. McDowell, Dr. Bishop prepared preliminary specifications for the subdivision of that portion of the first floor of the Museum of History and Technology to be devoted to industrial exhibits.
The monthly exhibits of pictorial photography were continued during the year, and three special exhibits in graphic arts were shown. SPECIAL EXHIBITS—DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS GRAPHIC ARTS
December 1957
Alexander Mastro 32 aquatints and
Valerio Currier and Ives Robert Hogue
National Print Collection
Photographie Guild of Detroit
National Photographic Society
Dr. John W. Super
Joseph Petrocelli
Eleventh Annual Exhibition of Marine Photography, International
Clarence John Laughlin
mezzotints 21 lithographs 32 Antarctic sketches
50 pictorial photographs 60 pictorial photographs
36 monochrome prints and 59 color transparencies
40 pictorial photograpbs
50 pictorial photographs
50 pictorial photographs
41 pictorial photographs
January—February 1958 March—April 1958
July—August 1957
September—October 1957
November—December 1957
January—February 1958
March—April 1958 May 1958
June 1958
Acting curator of ceramics and glass Paul V. Gardner arranged two
exhibitions during the year.
The Sixth International Exhibition
of Ceramic Art, sponsored by the Kiln Club of Washington, displayed outstanding contemporary ceramics from the United States and foreign countries during the period August 27 to September 27. Porcelain and pottery by the noted Japanese artist, Hajime Kato, of the Tokyo University of Arts, were featured in the exhibition. From December 28 to January 16, an exhibition, “Glass from the Ancient World,’ presented more than 700 rare pieces from the Ray Winfield

<<<Page: 32>>>

"Glass from the Ancient World," an exhibit of the Ray Winfield Smith collection, was a feature of the winter season in the foyer gallery of the Natural History building. On display were over 700 pieces from the period I5th century B. C. to I2th century A. D. Right: Double balsamarium of clear glass, pre-Islamic or Islamic, possibly Syria, about 6th—-8th century A. D.
Right: Luster cup, possibly Persia, 9th-I2th century A. D.

<<<Page: 33>>>

Smith collection. This famous collection of ancient glass dating from 1500 B. C. to 1200 A. D., believed to be the largest privately owned, includes such outstanding pieces as the Daphne vase, Aphrodite torso, Paris plate, and a very important series of Islamic glass. It has not been shown in its entirety until this year.
Two alcoves in the Alfred Duane Pell collection and four other cases of ceramic and glass materials were renovated during the year.
Civil History
The arrangement of exhibits was determined for the four large halls, emphasizing different aspects of the civil history of our nation, which will occupy the east half of the second floor of the Museum of History and Technology. Exhibits specialist Benjamin W. Lawless designed an enlarged first ladies hall from a script prepared by associate curator Margaret Brown Klapthor. Robert Widder designed the hall of historic Americans and the hall of costumes to meet the exhibits requirements of acting curator of political history Wilcomb E. Washburn and assistant curator Anne Murray, respectively. And John E. Anglim, working closely with acting curator of cultural history C. Malcolm Watkins, laid out the exhibits for the hall of everyday life in the American past.
A design for a hall presenting the history of money and medalic art was completed by exhibits designer William B. Eddy on the basis of a script by curator of numismatics Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli and assistant curator Elvira Clain-Stefanelli.
The exhibition of White House china was expanded and rearranged during the year.
Armed Forces History
The hall of military history, installed in the area of the Arts and Industries building formerly known as the gun court, was formally opened on June 14, 1958, in the presence of the Honorable Wilber M. Brucker, Secretary of the Army, General Lyman lL. Lemnitzer, Vice Chief of Staff, United States Army, and members of their staffs. Mr. Brucker spoke of the important role of the Smithsonian Institution in encouraging patriotism through its museum interpretation of the Army’s long and distinguished history. Following the ceremony, Mr. Brucker was honored by a retreat review by the 1st Battle Group, 3d Infantry Regiment, on the Mall.
Through the display of firearms, uniforms, edge weapons, and other specimens of military equipment from the collections of the Division of Military History, the new hall traces the history and development

<<<Page: 34>>>

Uniform worn by Gen. George Washington when he resigned his commission at Annapolis, Maryland, December 23, 1783, is the first thing seen by the visitor at one entrance of the new hall of military history.
of the United States Army from the days of the colonial militia to the modern pentomic army and its missile weapons. Among the unique objects on display are George Washington’s sword, carried in battle throughout the Revolution, and the uniform he wore when he resigned his commission in 1783, De Kalb’s war saddle, an original Von Steuben drill manual, Rochambeau’s sword, and the uniform coat worn by General Jackson at the Battle of New Orleans. Six dioramas prepared by the U. 8S. Army Exhibit Unit depict dramatic moments in our military history.
Contents of the exhibits were selected by acting curator Edgar M. Howell and assistant curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr. Exhibits were designed by John Brown and prepared by technicians of the exhibits laboratory under the general direction of Benjamin W. Lawless. The Department of the Army cooperated closely with the division of military history in this project.

<<<Page: 35>>>

Von Steuben's drill regulations, Charles Lee's pistols, and De Kalb's saddle are among the relics symbolizing the period when Washington's victorious Revolutionary army was in the making.

<<<Page: 36>>>

EXHIBITS Pa
Navy Vanguard rocket, duplicate of the one that launched a 6-inch satellite that will orbit around the earth for the next 200 years.
Winchester, Civil War mount of Gen. Philip H. Sheridan, immortalized in Read's poem "Sheridan's Ride," as he appeared when ", . . through the flush of the morning light, A steed as black as the steeds of night, Was seen to pass, as with eagle flight," on the road from Winchester town toward the raging battle of Cedar Creek, some 20 miles away.

<<<Page: 37>>>

Exhibits designer Wiliam B. Eddy proceeded with the design of a chronological series of exhibits for the Museum of History and Technology, based on a script by head curator Mendel L. Peterson and Mr. Howell, portraying the history of the Armed Forces. He also began the design of a hall of ordnance, based on a script by Mr. Goins. Mr. Peterson prepared a detailed script of exhibit units for a hall of underwater exploration.
Plans for the construction of ship models needed to complete the exhibits of naval history were formulated with the assistance of curator of transportation Howard I. Chapelle and exhibits worker Wilham E. Geoghegan.

<<<Page: 38>>>

Accessions
During the Fiscal Year 1958
Accessions during the past year added 6,494,554 specimens to the national collections. These materials were distributed among the eight departments as follows: Anthropology, 4,373; zoology, 525,458; botany, 57,795; geology, 43,275; science and technology, 3,457; arts and manufacturers, 230; civil history, 5,858,683; and armed forces history, 1,283. This total includes 371,155 insects and 5,855,365 stamps. ‘The accessions for the most part were received as gifts from individuals or as transfers from government departments and agencies. A full list of donors is to be found on page 95.
Anthropology
A set of casts of the restorable parts of a Neanderthal skeleton from northern Iraq, the first to reach this country, were donated by the Directorate General of Antiquities, Iraq. The skeleton casts of this newly discovered fossil man represent the work of Dr. Ralph S. Solecki, recently appointed associate curator in the division of archeology, who made the discovery in his excavation of Shanidar Cave in northern Iraq, and curator of physical anthropology T. Dale Stewart, who went to Baghdad, restored the original skull and long bones, and made plaster replicas.
A special selection of objects from Palau in the Caroline Islands received through Dr. Delmas Nucker, High Commissioner, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, included a model abai or men’s house, wooden bowls, tortoise-shell money, and native implements. From the Aaron and Lillie Straus Foundation, Inc., of Baltimore, the ethnological collections were enriched by 148 objects consisting of glass snuff bottles, carved minerals, and ivory netsukes from China and Japan. As a gift from Mrs. Elizabeth George, Tossa de Mar in Gerona, Spain, came a collection from Ethiopia of six large contemporary oil paintings depicting scenes of battle and of daily life, an Abyssinian manuscript Bible, silver buttons, and other objects illustrating Ethiopian craftsmanship in embossing, etching, and silver wire filigree.
479802—58——3 29

<<<Page: 39>>>

Of outstanding interest among the year’s accessions in archeology were two prehistoric specimens from Peru: One, a wooden doll dressed in native textiles, from the Central Coast, and the other, a gold mummy mask of the Chimu period (ca. A. D. 1100,) presented by Mrs. Virginia Morris Pollak. A large series of pottery, stone, bone, and other artifacts from the Black Widow site, and a smaller series from the Buffalo Pasture site in Stanley County, S. Dak., represent the results of River Basin Surveys excavations at two sites which will be destroyed by the lake created by the Oahe Dam a few miles north of Pierre. These two collections throw important light on the native village Indian culture of the Upper Missouri in the 16th and 17th centuries. Mention should also be made of a large, well-documented collection from 23 States and the District of Columbia presented by Richard Gates Slattery.
Loology
The most important collection of mammals received during the year comes from Panama, where associate curator C. O. Handley, Jr., collected over 1,300 specimens in cooperation with the Gorgas Memorial laboratory. An African elephant of record size presented by Joseph J. Fénykévi of Madrid, Spain, is the most outstanding individual specimen received in many years. Valuable cetaceans were received from three different sources: an embalmed pigmy sperm whale (Kogia) from the Marine Institute of the University of Georgia, the skull of an Alaskan beaked whale (Ziphius) from Dr. Robert Rausch, and the complete skeleton of another kind of beaked whale (Mesoplodon) from Florida salvaged by museum aide John L. Paradiso.
Among birds received during the year were 193 specimens from Ghana, collected and presented by D. W. Lamm, the first sizeable collection from that part of western Africa; 200 skeletons of Rhodesian birds, from the Smithsonian Institution through Dr. Wetmore; and 358 birds from Yukon Territory, by transfer from the Arctic Health Research Center through Dr. L. Irving.
Important type specimens received in the division of reptiles and amphibians include 6 paratypes of Cuban frogs, in exchange from the Museum of Comparative Zoology; 2 paratypes of lizards from New Guinea and Borneo obtained as an exchange from the Chicago Natural History Museum; 17 paratypes of Mexican reptiles and amphibians from the University of Illinois Museum of Natural History; a valuable lot of 128 reptiles and amphibians from Formosa collected by Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2; and the first example of a leatherback turtle from Cuba, presented by the Museo Ignacio Agramonte.

<<<Page: 40>>>

Among fishes received is a cast of the recently discovered living representative Latimeria chalumnae of the otherwise wholly fossil coelacanths, from the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris. This interesting specimen was placed on exhibition. A collection of 15,897 fresh-water fishes from West Virginia was pre-
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY . Archeology . Ethnology ATs Physical neiropaloes Stier We DEPARTMENT OF BoTANY . . Phanerogams . Grasses. . . Ferns Cryptogams. A DEPARTMENT OF Guineas
Invertebrate Paleontology and Pallaclaotaa :
Mineralogy and Petrology Vertebrate Paleontology DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY Mammals. Birds Reptiles Fishes . . : Insects 5). he). Marine iertebratesy Mollusks . . . Helminths DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND Taeaenoair Physical Sciences : Mechanical and Civil Beeinceuna lt Electricity . Transportation ‘ : Agriculture and Wood peneicts . Medical Sciences
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MEW agate:
Industrial Cooperation . Mextiles.. Tips, (0) oa Ceramics and Glass Graphic Arts
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL Heorone Cultural History. . Political History . Numismatics Philately . .
DEPARTMENT OF ARMED Homers Hrerany Se
Military History . Naval History.
seen vie; h.es) et La
Totat Mustum CoLuECcTIONS .
607, 170 182, 255 37, 229
1, 811, 129 369, 862
218, 513 377, 391
12, 108, 803
369, 380 43, 276 279, 053 490, 707 147, 111 1, 618, 473 13, 606, 992 1, 634, 638 9, 612, 384 47, 030 2,111
5, 372
3, 342
24, 227 24, 995 23, 185 28, 771 32, 860 Gy Tae 46, 247 13, 049 37, 533 66, 598
7, 042, 937 32, 482 4,915
very large
31, 1958 826, 654
2, 976, 895
12, 521, 459
27, 436, 388
83, 232
121, 005
7, 160, 117
37, 397
50, 963, 147

<<<Page: 41>>>

sented by Dr. F. J. Schwartz; another lot of 3,398 fishes, mostly seahorses, was received from Dr. Kirk Strawn; and 1,185 Australian fishes, including numerous species not previously represented in the Museum’s Australian collections, were received in exchange from Prof. L. R. Rivas of the University of Miami. The New York Zoological Society, through Dr. William Beebe, presented 73 holotypes and 62 paratypes of tropical fishes.
Insect material constitutes the bulk of the year’s accessions. The largest single lot is the famous Carl J. Drake collection of Hemiptera, a world-wide collection comprising over 100,000 specimens and containing more than 1,000 types. The valuable and important Tippmann collection, comprising 97,830 specimens of wood-boring beetles, Cerambycidae, obtained with assistance of a grant from the National Science Foundation, contains 611 holotypes and 1,415 paratypes and cotypes, and is a useful supplement to the specimens already in the collections, since it is largely from regions not heretofore represented. Other important accessions of insects are the John L. Buys collection of 12,128 leaf-hoppers, Homoptera, presented by Mrs. Buys, and the David Dunavan collection of 4,386 North American beetles, presented by Mrs. Dunavan.
The Raymond C. Osburn collection of 3,572 bryozoans, including 145 type lots, together with extensive manuscript notes and microfilm of Dr. Osburn’s library catalog and bibliography was presented by Mrs. Osburn to the division of marine invertebrates. This accession is an important enrichment of the Museum’s facilities in this area of research. Other notable accessions include 4,956 miscellaneous invertebrates from the Palau Islands received from the George Vanderbilt Foundation and the Office of Naval Research, through Dr. F. M. Bayer; 10,991 specimens from waters off Surinam, transferred from the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 2,850 crustaceans, largely copepods, chiefly from Africa, containing 2 holotypes and 388 paratypes, presented by Dr. A. G. Humes; 685 crustaceans, including the holotype and 16 paratypes of one species, given by Dr. James HE. Lynch, University of Washington; 2,341 polychaete worms and crustaceans from Lake Pontchartrain, La., a gift from Dr. Rezneat M. Darnell, Marquette University.
The largest important accession of mollusks is the collection totaling 14,350 specimens made mainly by the curator, Dr. Harald Rehder, on the Bredin-Smithsonian Expedition to the Society, Tuamotus, and Cook Islands. Other notable accessions are 1,600 marine mollusks from the Palau Islands received from the George Vanderbilt Foundation and the Office of Naval Research through Dr. F. M. Bayer; 3,550 marine shells collected by Cadet Hand on Kapingamarangi Atoll, Caroline Islands, under the auspices of the Pacific Science

<<<Page: 42>>>

Board; and 2,034 specimens from the Samoan Islands, Palaus, and New Guinea, received from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The Fish and Wildlife Service transferred to the Museum 113 specimens of cephalopods from the Gulf of Mexico through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and 311 specimens of land and freshwater mollusks of South America were received in exchange from the Chicago Museum of Natural History.
Botany
The largest gift to the department of botany consists of 10,847 specimens of lichens, constituting the personal herbarium of Dr. Mason H. Hale, Jr., associate curator of cryptogams; most of the material is from the eastern and southern United States. Another notable gift, received from Dr. José Cuatrecasas, resident investigator of the department, comprised 1,165 specimens of his own collections from Colombia, mostly a comprehensive collection of the hepaticae (liverworts). These are under study by Prof. Margaret Fulford, a principal specialist on the hepaticae. Other gifts include 162 specimens from William O. Douglas, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, representing his personal collection of Himalayan plants; and 1,735 specimens of plants of the Philippine Islands collected by Dr. José Vera Santos and presented by the University of the Philippines. To be mentioned especially are the 117 samples of diatoms from the Antarctic collected by the British-Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Expedition and presented by the University of Adelaide in Australia.
Dr. Lyman B. Smith, curator of phanerogams, collected 15,133 specimens in southern Brazil. Other botanists and institutions in Brazil have been collaborating with Dr. Smith in his study of the Brazilian flora and have contributed specimens as follows: 422 specimens from Father Raulino Reitz, 378 from the Instituto Agronémico do Norte, Belém, 163 from Dr. Amaro Macedo, and 90 from Sr. G. Hatschbach. Dr. Egbert H. Walker, associate curator of phanerogams, obtained 291 plant specimens on his field trip to Okinawa in connection with his current studies of the flora of the Ryukyu Islands. In helpful assistance to Dr. Walker’s work, Kagoshima University, Kyushu, Japan, sent in exchange 578 specimens collected by Prof. S. Hatusima, and Dr. J. T. Conover, University of Texas, presented his personal collection of ferns of Okinawa, numbering 668 specimens.
Important exchanges include 2,675 specimens of Cuban plants, mostly from the now historic collections of Brother Le6én and Brother Clemente, received from the Colegio de la Salle, Havana, Cuba; 2,697 specimens from Arctic Alaska, received from Stanford University; 1,132 specimens from Canada and Alaska from the Botany and Plant

<<<Page: 43>>>

Pathology Laboratory, Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada; 300 specimens from the Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria; 1,157 specimens from the University of Michigan; 912, mostly bryophytes of Europe and Africa, from the Institute of Systematic Botany, University of Uppsala; 421 specimens from the collections of Dr. Bassett Maguire and his associates in the ‘“Guayana Highlands” of Venezuela, received from the New York Botanical Garden; and 574 specimens of plants of New Guinea, received from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia.
Also acquired were 631 specimens of plaats from the Transvaal, Africa, from the collection of Dr. H. J. Schlieben; and 281 specimens of Colombian plants of the A. E. Lawrance collection.
Geology
Among the fine and rare minerals received in the division of mineralogy and petrology are native silver, Honduras, from the New York and Honduras Rosario Mining Company; amethyst, Korea, from John B. Jago; and pyrolusite, Ghana, from Marcel D. Arrouet. Newly described mineral species received as gifts include ajoite, Arizona, from Miss Mary Mrose, and santafeite, Grants, N. Mex., from the New Mexico Bureau of Mines and Mineral Resources.
Outstanding minerals obtained through exchange include a very large scheelite crystal from Arizona, a fine helvite crystal from Sweden; a crystal of columbite from Virginia, an exceptionally large ilvaite crystal from Idaho, wulfenite from Arizona, and aragonite from California.
Noteworthy additions to the gem collection, purchased from the Chamberlain fund for the Isaac Lea collection, include a garnet from Idaho weighing 25.7 carats, a figure of the Chinese god of longevity carved in tiger-eye, a nephrite jade vase, and a fine series of small Montana sapphires of various colors. A large and ornate jade was received as a gift from Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post.
Outstanding additions to the Roebling collection by purchase and exchange include these items: native gold, Washington; azurite, and cerussite, Australia; becquerelite, kasolite, soddyite, and schoepite, Belgian Congo; spodumene, Brazil; huebnerite, Colorado; magnesite and strontianite, Austria; wulfenite, Arizona; uraninite, Colorado; and a specimen of the Kimble County, Tex., meteorite, added as an exchange.
Several outstanding specimens were purchased from the Canfield fund as additions to the Canfield collection: sylvanite, Colorado; chrysocolla and quartz, Arizona; scheelite, Korea; and apophyllite and amblygonite, Brazil.

<<<Page: 44>>>

Received in exchange are ten meteorites new to the collection: Vengerovo, Krymka, Orlovka, Chebankol, Nikolskoe, Petropavlovsk, and Hressk, from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; Richland, Navarro County, Tex.; and Fayetteville, Washington County, Ark.
Significant among the specimens received in the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany are 10 rare Mississippian goniatites from Chris E. Alter; 150 Lower Cretaceous Foraminifera from Trinidad, B. W. I., presented by Dr. Hans M. Bolli; approximately 10,000 invertebrate fossils from Silurian formations on the Island of Gotland, from Dr. A. J. Boucot; about 100 Tertiary echinoids and other Cuban fossils from the Cuba California Oil Company, Havana, through P. B. McGrath; 2 type specimens of Ordovician starfish from Dr. Howard R. Cramer; 2 type specimens of crabs from the Cretaceous of North Dakota, given by Dr. F. D. Holland, Jr.; 2,000 Pliocene mollusks from St. Petersburg, Fla., from Charles Locklin; and the type specimen of an enormous spiriferoid brachiopod, Dimegelasma, from the Mississippian of Nevada from Dr. Joseph Lintz, Jr.
From the Walcott bequest were purchased from Mrs. Raymond R. Hibbard 300 specimens of rhomboporoid Bryozoa from the Middle Devonian Hamilton group of New York State, and from Guiseppe Bonafede 38 specimens of Pliocene brachiopods from Sicily.
The collection of Harrell L. Strimple, Bartlesville, Okla., purchased under the Springer fund, yielded about 21,000 specimens and represents more than 20 years of collecting by Mr. Strimple, who made a specialty of Upper Paleozoic crinoids. Notable among the exchanges are 306 Paleozoic and Mesozoic invertebrate fossils, from the University of Bristol, through Dr. W. F. Whittard.
The significant accession for the year in the division of vertebrate paleontology came as a result of a grant from the Walcott fund which enabled curator C. L. Gazin and exhibits specialist Franklin Pearce to collect from Middle Eocene beds of southwestern Wyoming 330 specimens including the skull and jaws of the primate Notharctus tenebrosus, skeletons of the 4-toed horse Orohippus, the primitive tapir Helaletes, skulls of assorted rodents, and the large titanothere Palaeosyops. Similarly obtained by means of the Walcott fund were portions of four tritylodont (mammal-like reptile) skeletons and a protosuchian crocodile collected by Dr. G. E. Lewis of the U. S. Geological Survey and associate curator David H. Dunkle, from Triassic rocks in the Navajo reservation, Ariz.
An exchange with the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, brought six genera of ray-finned fishes, new to the collection, from the Triassic of Madagascar and casts of important types in the French museum. An important skull of Eryops from the Permian (Dunkard

<<<Page: 45>>>

formation) of southwestern Pennsylvania was donated by William EK. Moran. Science and Technology
Among the specimens acquired to fill the gaps in collection of scientific instruments are a set of apparatus for demonstrating the mechanical powers, presented by Middlebury College, a fine vacuum pump from Bowdoin College, an 18th-century chemical furnace from Williams College, the famous set of tuning forks from the United States Military Academy, and a fine Oertling assay balance from Wheaton College.
The horological collections received two notable clocks, an elaborate astronomical clock of 1764 made in South Tyrol, and a 17th century Dutch pendulum clock built by Johannes Tegelbergh of The Hague, presented by Mr. and Mrs. Dillard B. Lasseter.
The machinery collections obtained, from the Worthington Corporation, Henry R. Worthington’s first double-acting, direct-acting steam pump, built in 1844. A fine highly-finished quadruple-expansion marine steam engine, built in 1906 by the Dodge Brothers, was received from the University of Michigan. The Boeing Airplane Company sectioned for display purposes a small gas turbine transferred to the Museum by the Department of the Navy.
In the division of electricity most of the accessions are in the field of electronics. Of particular interest are the experimental electron tubes of Drs. Langmuir and Hull donated by the General Electric Research Laboratory. Union College gave examples of early electronic equipment. Bowdoin College sent the core of an electromagnet made by Joseph Henry, while Williams College presented a very early cathode ray tube. Major J. Vanderhoef (U. S. M. C., ret.) contributed an unusual example of a Vibroflex key and a number of Japanese electron tubes. Through the Hazeltine Research Corporation, Dr. Alan Hazeltine donated the original experimental model of the neutrodyne circuit.
Outstanding among the transportation accessions are rare builder’s half-models, including an Eastern Shore of Maryland fishing launch, dated about 1913, donated by James B. Richardson, and the model of a motor garvey from southern New Jersey, donated by the builder, W.R. Main. Other specimens of note are a working scale model of an Italian coal-fired locomotive with tender, flat car, extra assemblies, and spare parts, donated by Richard D. Boutros, and the Bayly gig, which has been on loan by the heirs of the Bayly and Orem families for a number of years.
An unusual specimen donated by Earl J. Waybright is a Mehring foot-power milking machine, an inexpensive device, sold from the 1890’s

<<<Page: 46>>>

ACCESSIONS th
to the 1920’s, intended to lighten and speed up the task of milking for the man witha small herd. <A group of 1,400 interesting woods of the world in cane form, known as the Rudolph Block collection of walking sticks, were presented by the Yale University School of Forestry. Mr. Block was long known as a writer of fiction and arti_ cles under his pen name of Bruno Lessing, and in his travels he gathered these woods from the various important forest regions. _
The most significant accession acquired in the division of medical sciences is the transparent manikin of a woman which shows by electronic devices, light and sound, the location of the major organs of the human body and explains their functions. This exhibit was obtained from the Deutsches Gesundheits Museum. A collection of gas-oxygen machines, inhalers, and hypodermic syringes was donated by W. Harry Archer, D. D.S., an authority on Horace Wells, primary discoverer of anesthesia. Another outstanding acquisition, a group of unusually rare ceramic drug jars, was donated by the Bristol-Myers Company. The collection included a 13th-century Rhages (Persia) albarello and a 13th-century Rakka (Mesopotamia) albarello, as well as a 15th-century Hispano-Moresque majolica drug container, and an early 16th-century Faenza (Italy) dragonspout ewer.
Arts and Manufactures
A reconstructed model of John Hargreave’s original spinning jenny, which demonstrates Hargreave’s original conception, was built in the exhibits laboratory by Robert Sampson from the specifications in Hargreave’s patent of 1770. An interesting collection of hand-woven fabrics made in the South during the Civil War was presented by Mrs. N. C. Browder. A beautiful and rare cashmere shaw! with a turquoise center was presented by Miss Sabra O. Burgess, and four silk shawls were given by Miss M. Agnes Neill.
A rare pressed-glass ornamental pane, believed to be the earliest marked piece of Wheeling lacy glass manufactured by J. & C. Ritchie, Wheeling, W. Va., was purchased with funds provided by W. Daniel Quattlebaum of California. Fifty ceramic and glass items from the collection of the late Aaron Straus, Baltimore philanthropist, were given by the Straus Foundation.
Ten etchings by Pierre van der Borcht (1545-1608) were given by Captain Emerson E. Morris; a color lithograph, “Go and Catche a Falling Starre,”’ by June Wayne, was presented by the Society of Washington Printmakers; and twelve pictorial photographs by Clarence John Laughlin of New Orleans, one of this country’s outstanding photographic artists, were received as a gift from the Hickemeyer endowment fund. A box-type camera by one of America’s

<<<Page: 47>>>

earliest daguerreotype photographers, Henry Fitz, Jr., was received as a gift from Mrs. Willard H. Howell. A camera of the pioneer Western photographer James Fennemore was presented by Senator Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona.
Civil History
A most significant acquisition is the collection of Lincoln memorabilia presented by his great-grandson, Lincoln Isham. Mary Todd Lincoln’s silver tea and coffee service, President Lincoln’s watch, his silver cutlery, and a presentation revolver are some of the items in the collection. Additional important pieces of White House china were received. A salad plate and three oyster plates from the state service used during the administration of President Rutherford B. Hayes were given by Col. Theodore Barnes, and a dinner plate from the state service of President Benjamin Harrison was presented by Mrs. Samuel Schwartz. The First Ladies collection is enhanced by the loan of the inaugural dress of Dolley Madison from the William Reckhill Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City.
The furnishings and fittings of the Stohlman Confectionery Shop, originally installed in Georgetown, D. C., in 1900, was acquired with its ice cream parlor, its ornate cabinetwork, candy jars, fancy ice cream molds, and countless other minutiae that will serve to document a picturesque phase of late Victorian urban life. A complete set of original furnishings from a 19th century parlor in a Thomaston, Me., house was donated by the Misses Helen R. and Elizabeth W. Newcombe. The carpet, mirror, sofas, and side chairs will make it possible to reproduce authentically the parlor of a rural Victorian gentleman.
The collections of philately and postal history received an exceptionally large accession through the transfer of 5,801,500 United States obsolete revenue stamps from the Internal Revenue Service. Former Postmaster General James A. Farley converted a loan of 8,835 specimens to a gift. A rarity, the United States 24-cent airmail stamp with inverted center, was donated by the Raymond H. Weill Company. Sidney N. Shure of Chicago presented the first issue of Israel complete in sheets. An airmail collection of Albania and Bulgaria, a stamp collection of Czechoslovakia in 17 volumes, and a 5-volume collection of Rocket Mail were presented by Tom Lowenstein. An official presentation booklet of stamps of the United Nations for use in the European Office (Swiss overprints) was donated by John M. Harlan, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.
Outstanding among the numismatic accessions received are 22 die proofs of vignettes used for Canadian currency, donated by the British American Bank Note Company, Ottawa; 664 Chinese cash

<<<Page: 48>>>

pieces transferred by the Library of Congress; a Continental 60-dollar note, issued September 1778, donated by Consul J. Warner; and 4 Byzantine gold solidi and 2 modern Greek gold coins, given by M. Tambakis. Senator Harry F. Byrd donated three $1,000 bonds and five $500 bonds issued by the Confederate States of America in 1861 and 1863. A rare copper plate made by Charles Toppan & Co. and used about 1835 by the New Haven County Bank for the printing of 10, 20, 50, and 100 dollar notes was presented by the New Haven Bank, Conn., through Comptroller W. R. Hasse, Jr. Showing his continued interest in the growth of the national coin collections, Paul A. Straub donated a group of rare Holy Roman Empire gold coins struck in Hungary and Carinthia, and an unusual Prussian taler struck in 1719 in the name of Frederick Wilhelm I.
Armed Forces History
Among the notable items of military history accessioned are a rare Committee of Safety rampart rifle made at the Rappahannock Forge and a model 1869 pistol with Allin conversion, one of three known specimens, from the Department of the Army, and the famous Frankfort Arsenal cartridge collection, through Colonel Berkeley R. Lewis.
Of much importance is a collection of naval ordnance materiel which were recovered from the wreck of an unidentified ship which sank on the reefs of Bermuda about 1595. This rare material of the sixteenth century included expanding bar shot of lead and wrought iron; spiked shot carrying tow soaked with tar which, when lighted by the explosion of the charge in the gun, formed an incendiary shot; solid iron shot of various sizes; musket balls, and the breechblock of an iron swivel gun.
A built-up model of a warship of the late 17th century was received as a loan from Edwin A. Link, President of the General Precision Equipment Corporation. It is believed that the model itself dates to that period, and it forms a rare and desirable addition to the exhibition series. Received from the Department of the Navy, also as a loan, through the Naval Historical Foundation was a fife rail which stood by the foremast of the sloop-of-war Hartford, flagship of Admiral Farragut during the actions at Mobile Bay and on the Mississippi River in the Civil War.

<<<Page: 49>>>

Care of Collections
TransGifts to ferredto Lent for
educaother study to Exchanged tionalinGoverninvestigators Accessioned Received with other stitutions, ment and inIdentified Departments 1958 (new) onloan institutions ete. agencies stitutions on request
Anthropology.. 4, 373 5 3805 2, 203 36 8, 199 5, 714 Botanyeniy eee 57, 795 0 6,791 3,106 54 24,794 12,269 Geology seo. 43, 275 3 1, 234 584 605 4,721 18,478 Zoology.) |) | , 525,458 1,890 7, 617 2,761 — 62. 65, 887 “146, 770 Armed Forces
NISLORYAe ore 1, 283 9 18 0 0 21 503 Arts and Manu-
factures..... 230 350 0 0 0 12 2, 847 Civil History... 5, 858, 683 18, 707 2 0 0 2,975 78,619
Science and Technology... 3, 457 65 12 3 1 159 Uptake
Toran... 6,494,554 21,029 15,979 8,657 758 106,768 261,317
Anthropology
Chief exhibits specialist A. Joseph Andrews completed and installed in the newly opened Indian hall a diorama illustrating a Blackfoot Indian buffalo drive. He also made and painted four plaster casts of the Tepexpan skull from Mexico, and a waste mold for making a plaster cast of the inside of the now famous Neanderthal skull from Shanidar Cave in northern Iraq. At the request of and through the cooperation of the Korean Embassy, he prepared two life-size manikins representing a bride and groom for a very colorful Korean exhibit. Hundreds of iron objects excavated from colonial sites in Virginia and Maryland were chemically treated in the laboratory, and numerous archeological objects were cast and painted for scientific investigations, and prehistoric specimens repaired and restored. As time permitted, Mr. Andrews repaired several pieces of sculpture for the National Collection of Fine Arts, and supplied information concerning or gave instructions in the techniques of wax figure casting, diorama construction, gold Jeaf and gilding, mending porcelain, and repairing marble statuary.

<<<Page: 50>>>

The care and systematic classification of the ethnological collections continued to be the responsibility of assistant curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., who has completed many records lacking important factual detail. This is a step toward the necessary inventory of collections, and the bringing into harmony of records and specimens. Cataloging, numbering, and storing of the large Catholic University of America collection has been completed, as well as similar work on all recent accessions.
During the year the functions of the sections of ceramics, musical instruments, and period art and textiles were fully or in part transferred to appropriate divisions in the new Museum of History and Technology, and all specimens under these headings except 1,758 musical instruments are in the process of being transferred. A number of specimens hitherto listed under ethnology have also been transferred to their respective new divisions. Most of these transfers have been made to the divisions of cultural history, textiles, ceramics and glass, and political history. The actual physical segregation of these objects has only begun, and much remains to be done before the transfer of records and files will be completed.
Of the 450 original paintings by George Catlin in the division of ethnology, 141 have now been cleaned and, of these, 57 have been reframed. Presently four paintings are being cleaned and restored under contract with a well-known specialist in this field. Every effort is being made to complete this herculean task of preserving the remainder of these 305 irreplaceable pictures of our American Indians made in the 1830’s.
Acting curator Saul H. Riesenberg has instituted some revisions of the official divisional records; the photographic files of ethnological objects are being arranged by tribe and area, and the photographs compared with catalog cards and with specimens wherever data is lacking. The catalog cards are to have negative numbers entered on them, and indices to the photographs are to be prepared by subject and negative number. When this is completed it will be possible to fill the hundreds of requests for photographs of ethnological specimens quickly and efficiently. The library in the division of ethnology has been rearranged and the library cards brought up to date. The divisional specimen catalog file is being brought into better working order by cross-checking with the donor and accession files and supplying missing information. A new tribal-locality file has been installed which shows all specimens attributed to any tribe or cultural group by object, name, and number. This type of information, hitherto lacking, will facilitate both research and the handling of the constantly increasing number of inquiries.

<<<Page: 51>>>

In the division of physical anthropology, museum aide Lucile E. Hoyme, assisted by a summer intern, Elliot Liebow, worked on the skeletal collections from Arizona and New Mexico, of which the Hemenway collection, received from the Army Medical Museum many years ago, had in the course of time become disarranged. They carried nearly to completion the reassembly of the bones by their original catalog numbers so that a better evaluation could be made of the original skeletal units. Mr. Liebow also reviewed a number of accession records pertaining to these collections and prepared historical summaries that make them more meaningful.
Museum aide Charles EK. Eyman and associate curator Marshall T. Newman completed a review and reorganization of the Florida skeletal material, started last year. At the end of the fiscal year Mr. Eyman had completely checked the Peruvian collection and extended the finding system to this part of the study series.
All unprocessed archeological collections carried over from last fiscal year have been marked and incorporated into the study collections, progress has been made in the final marking of accessions for the current year, and the work of reorganizing and consolidating the study collections has gone forward. Museum aide George S. Metcalf has devoted much time to the identification of specimens incorrectly marked in past years, or on which the catalog numbers have become partially or wholly illegible. A substantial beginning has also been made on reorganizing and improving the Old World study collections; those representing Palestine are now in good shape, and the materials from Jordan are currently under review. The important task of cleaning and preserving the textile collections from Peru and other areas has continued throughout the year.
Storage facilities in the division of archeology have been materially improved with delivery of approximately 150 quarter-unit storage cases. Most of these have been filled with material previously in exhibit cases in hall 21, and an additional 200 quarter units will be needed to accommodate the objects in hall 22, both of which are scheduled for modernization. For four months museum aides Robert C. Jenkins and Mrs. W. M. Pelham sorted, washed, and numbered the two and one-half tons of potsherds and other objects brought back by Drs. Evans and Meggers from their 1957 archeological fieldwork on the headwaters of the Orinoco, Venezuela, and the Rio Napo, Keuador.
Associate curator Ralph S. Solecki completed a survey of the Old World archeology collections, and at the close of the year was processing and rearranging them. The records and library of Old World archeology have been rearranged to make them more accessible.
Arrangements have been made with the Peabody Museum, Harvard

<<<Page: 52>>>

University, Cambridge, Mass., whereby scholars at that institution will study a large collection of pottery material excavated for the Smithsonian Institution in 1948 by Drs. M. W. Stirling and Gordon R. Willey. This material, classified into types, will be returned to the national collections. The division of archeology is continuing its efforts to find scholars to classify and study collections from the Latin American researches of previous staff members of the Bureau of American Ethnology, that have been turned over to the U.S. National Museum.
Zoology
The physical condition of the zoological collections has been improved during the year. In the division of mammals, the entire collection of skulls and skeletons of small cetaceans was rearranged in a single series; a complete survey and listing of the collection of preserved brains was finished; the type specimens of the Museum and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service collections were merged and partly rearranged, and the section devoted to the types of primates, edentates, and lagomorphs was placed in its permanent arrangement.
In the bird collections, the work of critica! reidentification of North American species and subspecies and their subsequent rearrangement for readier use and reference was pushed forward by Museum aide Bernard R. Feinstein. A check of the alcoholic specimens of frogs was completed during the year. The need for extra storage space in the division of fishes was somewhat eased by the construction of a temporary storage room, 22 x 50 feet, in the basement of the Bird House at the National Zoological Park. Also in that Park, a laboratory was constructed on the second floor of the Reptile House, where space will be available for ichthyologists.
Great strides were made in the care of the entomological collections, although the backlog of unprocessed material increased during the year because the accessions amounted to more than could be incorporated properly. An additional 66,145 specimens of the Drake collection were incorporated, 8,074 newly acquired specimens were added to it, while from the Shoemaker collection 18,564 specimens were placed in the regular series; 43,841 weevils were arranged in trays and drawers, and nearly 4,000 additional specimens were added to the collection. During the course of his studies on the Cerambycidae, Dr. Frederico Lane transferred 6,556 specimens from the Tippmann collection into the regular series. Nine genera of click beetles (Elateridae) were rearranged by Merton C. Lane, about 5,000 Lygaeidae (Hemiptera) from the H. G. Barber collection were transferred from boxes to the permanent series, and the entire collection of Collembola and Thysanura was examined and reconditioned. About 2,400

<<<Page: 53>>>

specimens of the Bromley collection were reincorporated; the alcoholic collections of scarabeid and carabid larvae were relabeled, cataloged and rearranged; and about 2,500 specimens of neuropteroids and Odonata were similarly treated. The collection of bag worms (Psychidae) was overhauled completely and is now contained in 65 drawers, neatly arranged and properly labeled. The reconditioning and rearranging of the Arachnida-Myriapoda section has advanced rapidly and all the primary types have now been segregated. During the year, 65,000 cards have been added to the card catalogs of the various groups.
In the division of marine invertebrates N. L. Livingston has made encouraging progress in the time-consuming task of examining, cleaning, and refilling the alcoholic-specimen jars. Many defective jars had to be replaced with better ones during the course of this work.
Botany
The task of shifting and expanding the general phanerogamic collections was finished early in the year, and this allowed the insertion of a large number of specimens that had accumulated. The case room is now adequate for several years. The major curatorial task of the year in the division of phanerogams was the sorting and labeling of the O. F. Cook collection of palms, a task undertaken by associate curator Velva Rudd; this material, which includes a number of types, was turned over by the Department of Agriculture. Associate curator Egbert H. Walker continued to attend to the Old World collections and associate curator Emery C. Leonard the West Indian ones. Associate curator Richard Cowan worked on the South American collections, and gave especial attention to the Leguminosae.
The provision of 20 additional storage cases for the division of ferns has permitted the first general expansion of the collections in many years. During this expansion, now under way, the collections will be rearranged according to the system of Carl Christensen instead of the system, now obsolete, devised long ago by L. M. Underwood; the collections can then be more readily consulted by fern students.
The collection of myxomycetes, numbering 3,120 specimens (plus duplicates), was transferred to the national fungus collections at Beltsville, Md., on a semipermanent loan, thus uniting all the fungus collections of the National Museum under the custody of Dr. John A. Stevenson, honorary curator of fungi. Tentative plans have been made to unite all the fungus collections within the National Herbarium when sufficient space is available.
The addition of two new staff members, associate curator Mason E. Hale, Jr., and herbarium aide Robert Ireland, has made it possible for

<<<Page: 54>>>

the division of cryptogams to reduce the backlog of curatorial work that had accumulated. The lichen collections have been expanded and rearranged alphabetically, replacing the arrangement according to the outmoded Zahlbruckner system, and the collections of bryophytes and algae were also expanded. A large number of miscellaneous cryptogams was sorted and filed away. The diatom collection remains in the custody of associate curator Paul S. Conger, and the work of transferring the crude samples to new containers is progressing as time permits.
The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and the processing of new material are summarized in the following table:
1956-57 1957-58
Specimens and photographs mounted. ....... 35, 500 33, 063 Specimensirepaireds iy Hig. epee oa. ee 3,443 10, 751 Specimens stamped and recorded ......... 30,312 24,112 Specimens incorporated in herbarium ....... 20,383 59,191
There are now 57,120 types in the segregated type herbarium. They are, by groups: 39,404 phanerogams, 10,031 grasses, 3,372 ferns, and 4,313 cryptogams; this represents an increase of 1,558 type specimens during the year.
Geology
The collections of mineralogy and petrology are well arranged and in good condition.
Constant moving of the collections of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany to add new specimens in the overcrowded space that is now available has made it necessary to take stock of the collection and record the present Jocation of specimens. This task has fallen to museum aide Henry B. Roberts, who has prepared finding cards for all the stratigraphic and reserve collections in the south attic. Part of the material in the south hall on the third floor, where some reserve collections are stored, poses the same problem; this, too, has been listed and cards are to be prepared. These card files will obviate the necessity for any further extensive moving.
It is planned to alphabetize the Paleozoic snail collection, a move that will make it possible for more people to use the collection, and also to alphabetize the post-Cambrian trilobite collection. The Burgess shale and graptolite collections are being expanded to permit erowth and to protect the specimens from undue crowding.
Museum aide James L. Connors has cataloged the Paleozoic coral collection and has numbered all the identified material init. It is the only biological collection at present completely cataloged. In addition to this valuable work, he expanded the entire coral collection
479802—58——4

<<<Page: 55>>>

to make room for further accessions, better organized the species in the collection, and made a careful invoice of our type specimens. None of the types listed in our 1905 catalog are missing. Mr. Connors is now checking the types received after 1905, but this is more difficult because no listing of them has ever been made. This type check is preliminary to the preparation of a list of types acquired since 1905.
During the first quarter of fiscal 1958, Robert Finks of Brooklyn College, New York, working under the summer intern program, reorganized the fossil sponge collection. The result is a completely modernized and well-arranged collection.
Karl Krucoff, another summer intern, rearranged the entire ostracod collection, organized all the types, placing them in new containers and arranging them alphabetically. This collection, an important one because of the large number of types it contains, is now in excellent order and the types are readily available.
During the fall and winter season head curator G. A. Cooper prepared all of the nonsilicified specimens from the Glass Mountains. This formidable amount of material occupied about 100 drawers. The large lumps were broken down and the specimens were extracted and distributed into the Permian collection. The Glass Mountains Permian material now occupies 36 standard quarter unit cases, about 350 drawers of selected specimens.
Associate curator Porter M. Kier, in charge of echinoderm collections, reports that he labeled and cataloged all the numerous Strimple types, obtained some years ago, and arranged them with the rest of the crinoid and other echinoderm types. He also unpacked, sorted, and arranged the large Strimple collection obtained during the second quarter of the fiscal year, and likewise a collection of Cuban echinoids received from the Cuba California Oil Company.
Associate curator Richard S. Boardman organized in alphabetical arrangement all the type slides of the bryozoans into new flat-file (Lab-aid) cabinets. The non-type slides were similarly arranged in a separate bank of flat-file cases. His own field collections were arranged according to a numbering series.
A significant part of the European and Canadian materials collected last year by associate curator David H. Dunkle has been prepared because of its pertinence to the exhibition program, but pressure on the laboratory staff of the division of vertebrate paleontology by the current exhibition program has left little time available for preparation of study materials or for care of the collections in general. As a result, there is a rapidly mounting backlog of material awaiting preparation.

<<<Page: 56>>>

CARE OF COLLECTIONS AW Science and Technology
All divisions in the department of science and technology are engaged in the repair of specimens received in damaged condition, and the renovation of specimens for exhibition in the Museum of History and Technology. ‘The staff has renovated the Borden vacuum pan, Olds gasoline engine, Howard tower clock, Fitz lens grinding machinery, Langley optical bench, to mention some notable items. Also renovated were a large Ruhmkorff galvanometer, Cruickshank battery, Priestley orrery, Ramsden dividing engine, Vigo fire engine, and several ship models.
The status of the specimen documentation was considerably improved through the assistance of summer interns in the sections of agriculture and pharmaceutical history and health, and through the addition to the staff of John M. Wingo and Horace W. Harris as museum aides in the sections of agriculture and physics, respectively. The establishment of a geographical card file that provides information as to the Museum’s holdings with respect to any given region has been completed in the section of agriculture. In the section of pharmaceutical history and health the materia medica collection has been rehoused in modern storage units. The specification of ship models for construction and repair has been undertaken on a considerable scale in the section of marine transportation, thanks to the work of Earle Geoghegan of the exhibits department.
The departmental library has been partially rearranged in an improved working condition through the assistance of Lettie Bevis of the Smithsonian Library. This work is continuing.
Arts and Manufacture
A vigorous and systematic program of inspection of specimens in the division of textiles for damage, overcrowding, and other undesirable conditions became possible with the appointment of Mrs. Marjorie L. Sampson as museum aide. Under the direction of acting curator Grace L. Rogers, experiments in methods of storing small specimens have been performed.
Many of the important machines in the textile collection are being renovated for the new textile hall, among them the Slater spinning frame, which is being cleaned and renovated by Donald Holst; the Scholfield wool carding machine, by Charles McKeon; the Slater carding machine, by Don Berkebile; and two old hand looms, by Robert Klinger and Robert Sampson. Several spinning wheels, textile models and sewing machines have also been restored.

<<<Page: 57>>>

The following articles of ceramics and glass were renovated and repaired:
Gilt bronze banquet plateau, ca. 1810, made by Thomire, artisan to Napoleon I
Two large Russian vases, ca. 1835, made by the Imperial factory in St. Petersburg for Tsar Nicholas I
One French metal-frame cabinet with Sevres porcelain and glass panels, ca. 1826
Two 18th-century French Ormolu vitrines (circular)
One 18th-century French Ormolu cabinet
Two malachite vases and pedestals ornamented with gilt bronze, Italian, believed to have belonged to Prince Demidoff and Princess Mathilde Bonaparte
Two 19th-century French bronze candelabra
One porcelain vase with gilt bronze mountings
Renovation of exhibits of graphic arts in the connecting range required the dismantling of the previous exhibit of hand processes and the removal of over 1,000 specimens from 20 flat-top cases and 36 vertical cases. The opportunity was taken to review much of the print collection as a whole. Most of this work was accomplished by the summer intern, John Minton, who also removed approximately half the study collections to storage in anticipation of renovation and air-conditioning to be done in this area.
In photography the Gatewood W. Dunston collection of 864 specimens was cleaned, cataloged, and transferred to storage. The appointment on May 26, 1958, of Rudolph Morris as museum aide in the section of photography, will permit the commencement of a full program of checking and renovation of specimens. Receipt of a large number of solander cases makes it possible to complete the transfer of the photographic print collection to more suitable storage units.
The collections of specimens in the division of industrial cooperation, formerly held by the section of manufactures and mineral technology, are being reviewed, and an up-to-date inventory of them established.
Civil History
The grouping of coins, medals, tokens, and paper currencies by accessions, a method formerly used in the division of numismatics, has been abandoned and arrangement of all specimens by subject has been started. More than 20,000 specimens have been regrouped by subjects; about 7,500 coins were identified, enveloped, and tabeled according to standard scientific reference books.
The collection of paper money of the Confederate States of America was arranged by issues and denominations, each bill being placed

<<<Page: 58>>>

separately in a transparent envelope. A similar system was adopted for state bank notes, which were grouped by states, banks, denominations, and types.
Many specimens removed years ago from various displays have unfortunately been found to be without identification as to accession and catalog numbers or even subject classification. This has made rearrangement of the collections a time consuming project.
The coin envelopes used for the reference collections have been found not to be sulfur free. As a result, the silver coins in them are tarnished and must be cleaned and reenveloped. An electrolytic apparatus was set up for cleaning tarnished and corroded coins. The process consists of bathing a coin in free hydrogen, which combines with the corrosive agent, sulfur, to make bydrogen sulphide and tbus removes it from tarnish or encrustation. The soft residue can then be easily removed. Numerous silver coins were cleaned using either this method or chemical agents.
The method, used for some years in the division of numismatics, of lacquering coins and medals by spraying them with Krylon is not fully satisfactory. Only too frequently the lacquer ‘‘builds up” around fine details and, especially to bronze medals, gives an unnatural, glossy, and unesthetic look. In addition, if aged, Krylon cannot be readily removed.
Armed Forces History
During the year the separation of the naval history specimens from the military history materials was completed. The naval history reference collection has been installed in a new storage area adjacent to the new office suite. As the work of separating the collections proceeded, the specimens were checked against the records and new tags were placed on the specimens; they were inspected to determine measures necessary for their further preservation and rewrapped before storing in the new units.
The assignment of additional storage space at Suitland has made it possible to rearrange the uniform reference collection for better preservation and more ready accessibility. All uniforms dating prior to 1872 now are stored flat in half units, 75 percent of the uniform collection has been dry-cleaned as a further aid to preservation, and most of the collection of military headgear has been stored in separate containers. A number of valuable bunting flags have been placed on backing to eliminate strain on fibers, and silk flags have been placed in heavy frames under plate glass as a means of stabilizing fibers. Air-conditioning has been installed in the southwest storeroom, where most fabrics are stored, as an aid to preservation.

<<<Page: 59>>>

Four ship models were restored by a local craftsman and arrangements have been made to restore eight others. This work involves, in most cases, the tightening of rigging, straightening of stanchions, and refinishing of defective places in the painted surfaces of the models. The usual precautions against insects, dust, and rust damage were taken on a regular schedule.

<<<Page: 60>>>

Investigation and Research
Anthropology
Head curator Frank M. Setzler, during August, located and directed the excavation of an early colonial structure on the James Williams site near Bell Plains, east of Fredericksburg, Va. This investigation resulted in the discovery of an 18th-century courthouse on the south bank of Potomac Creek. The poorly defined and relatively shallow outlines of a foundation revealed a T-shaped structure approximately 52 feet along the crossbar of the T and 40% feet in width, similar in form and size to the well preserved 18th-century Virginia courthouses in Hanover and King William Counties. This archeological excavation was a continuation of a research program begun in 1956 at Marlborough Town near Stafford, Va., at the junction of Potomac Creek and the Potomac River. An attempt was made to determine if there was a relationship between the courthouse at the Williams site and the earlier structure at Marlborough Town. This work, in collaboration with acting curator of cultural history C. Malcolm Watkins, and Professor Oscar Darter, department of history, Mary Washington College in Fredericksburg, was financed through a grant from the American Philosophical Society.
Through the foresight of the Columbia-Southern Chemical Corporation, a subsidiary of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, the Smithsonian Institution was offered an opportunity to preserve the record of a prehistoric Indian mound 110 feet in diameter and 20 feet in height, along the Ohio River in West Virginia. Future plans for plant expansion necessitated leveling the area, and Mr. C. EK. Wolf, manager of the plant, indicated his willingness to supply labor, equipment, laboratory facilities, and an engineer if the Institution would furnish the archeologist. Frank M. Setzler spent the period from October 7 to November 22 at the site near New Martinsville, W. Va., directing the excavation. Every possible means of cooperation was supplied by the Columbia-Southern Chemical Corporation. A remarkable specimen recovered from the Welcome Mound was a carved effigy tubular pipe. The customary pipe of the prehistoric builders of these mounds was a Straight tube. At the knee of one of the warriors interred near the top of the mound was a beautifully carved pipe representing the

<<<Page: 61>>>

head and neck of the shoveler duck Spatula clypeata (Linnaeus). Bearing a series of fine incised lines on the underside of the bill clearly representing the lamellae so characteristic of this species, the effigy is carved from Ohio limestone, a relatively soft material easy to carve when freshly dug from the ground. Also found were the bodies of three adults that had been placed on and covered with various layers of bark. A large canine tooth of the cougar, or mountain lion, was found in the mouth cavity of an elderly male lying on the base of the mound. ‘This could indicate a shaman or tribal leader costume such as an animal mask. Such evidence has been found in some of the Adena mounds in Ohio and Kentucky.
Archeology.—Curator Waldo R. Wedel and museum aide George Metcalf, detailed to the River Basin Surveys during the summer, excavated two village sites in Stanley County, South Dakota, some five to six miles below the junction of Cheyenne River and the Missouri. One site yielded remains of two occupations—one prehistoric, with large deep rectangular pithouses, the other postcontact, with circular earth lodges and evidences of contacts with white traders. At the second site, circular houses within a palisaded area and further evidences of White contact were found. The cultural materials associated with the several occupations represented at these two sites are quite distinctive and will contribute important information on the culture of the 17th and 18th century Arikara Indians and their predecessors along this section of the Missouri River. This data supplements and clarifies information gathered from other multiple-occupation sites at the mouth of the Cheyenne River.
After his return from the field in September, Dr. Wedel completed the final report on his 1937-40 field investigations in Kansas. The large monograph was transmitted to the Bureau of American Ethnology for publication. In addition to the original field data, this report contains extensive discussions on several of the major known archeological complexes of the Central Plains, and on their wider relationships and cultural significance. It constitutes the largest and most comprehensive statement yet assembled on the native prehistory of Kansas. As time permitted, Dr. Wedel carried forward the preparation of his report on the archeology of the Horner Site near Cody, Wyo. This site, dated by radiocarbon at approximately 5000 B.C., was partially excavated by Princeton University during two seasons preceding the joint Princeton-Smithsonian investigations in 1952. Its importance stems from the fact that the artifact assemblage is perhaps the largest and most comprehensive series yet recovered from a site of this cultural level and prehistoric period in

<<<Page: 62>>>

the Great Plains and adjacent regions. In May, Dr. Wedel was elected a member of the executive committee of the Society for American Archeology.
Associate curator Clifford Evans and research associate Betty J. Meggers carried forward several research projects started in previous years, and initiated two new programs. Specimens collected from the excavations of an early Formative Period site of Coastal Ecuador were classified and described, and a monograph, “The Valdivia Culture,’”’ was completed. To date this is the earliest culture found in Ecuador and links with early Formative sites in Panama, Colombia, and Peru, in addition to showing some similarity to later Formative horizons in the Valley of Mexico. A Spanish version of the report is being printed by Emilio Estrada as a publication of the Museo Arqueologico Victor Emilio Estrada, Guayaquil, Ecuador. Classification of all the specimens from the Rio Napo, Ecuador, excavations of 1956-57 was completed in time to summarize the results in a symposium on migrations organized for the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association in December 1957. This manuscript will be published by the University of Arizona Press.
Preparatory to delivering a paper at the 33rd International Congress of Americanists meeting in July 1958 at San José, Costa Rica, Drs. Evans and Meggers have classified 60,000 sherds from the stratigraphic excavations made in the headwaters of the Orinoco in 1957 in cooperation with Professor José M. Cruxent of the Museo de Ciencias Naturales, Caracas, Venezuela. Two distinct cultures have been defined, one showing certain relationships to aboriginal cultures of the Antilles and the other with Colombia. A research grant from the Creole Foundation, the first such grant made to the Smithsonian Institution, made it possible to test a large series of charcoal samples from this field work for dating by radiocarbon techniques. The carbon-14 laboratory of the University Museum, Philadelphia, Pa., is now processing the specimens. This will be the first large series of dates to come from tropical forest climates.
Because of her interest in tropical forest agriculture, Dr. Betty J. Meggers was invited to participate in a seminar on plantation systems of the New World, sponsored by the Organization of American States, the Department of State of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Research and Training Program for the Study of Man in the Tropics. Sixty delegates from the United States, Latin America, and Europe attended the seminar in San Juan, Puerto Rico, from November 17-23, 1957.
Dr. Evans was made a member of the committee of Latin American anthropology of the National Research Council, and continued to

<<<Page: 63>>>

attend the meetings of the working group on Inter-American affairs held at the Department of State, where he represents the anthropological profession specialists in Latin America.
Ralph S. Solecki joined the staff of the division of archeology as associate curator of prehistoric Old World archeology on August 26, 1957. He continued research on the Shanidar, Iraq, archeological project which he had initiated in 1951. A phase of this work was prepared as a doctoral dissertation, ‘“The Baradostian industry and the Upper Palsolithic in the Near Hast,’ which he successfully defended at Columbia University on May 19, 1958. This manuscript, which represents approximately 25 percent completion of the Shanidar project, will be presented for publication.
From May 8-11, 1958, Dr. Solecki and his wife, Dr. Rose Lilien, attended an informa! symposium in Chicago on the prehistory of the Near Hast called by Dr. Robert J. Braidwood of the Oriental Institute of Chicago. He also participated in an informal session on carbon-14 dating of Pleistocene stratigraphy and archeological chronology at the geophysical laboratory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington on May 22, 1958. Durimg the year he gave four lectures, and prepared several short papers for publication on his unique and very important discoveries at Shanidar, northern Iraq.
Museum aide George Metcalf completed a manuscript, ‘Some Coiled-ware Sherds from the High Plains,” that has been accepted for publication by American Antiquity. He has continued his research and manuscript preparation of a report on a group of sites from central Nebraska, and has resumed preparation for the River Basin Surveys of the final report on Site 32M1L39, N. Dak. During August, Mr. Metcalf spent several weeks in Kansas collaborating with members of the Fort Wallace, Kans., Museum in the excavation of a stratified site nearby, where the cultural materials range from Preceramic to Late Historic periods.
Research associate Neil M. Judd continued his investigation of the archeological materials collected in Chaco Canyon for the National Geographic Society.
Physical anthrepolegy.—Curator T. Dale Stewart was given an opportunity to study, restore, and make plaster casts of the Neanderthal skull and postcrania! bones discovered earlier in the year by Dr. Ralph S. Solecki in the Shanidar Cave, northern Iraq. The Iraqian Government, appreciating the scientific importance of the find, invited Dr. Stewart to make the restoration in Baghdad, where the Shanidar skeleton is preserved. This research program, from October 9, 1957 to January 12, 1958, was made possible by the generosity of the Directorate General of Antiquities of Iraq, supplemented by a grant from the American Philosophical Society. While

<<<Page: 64>>>

still in Irag, Dr. Stewart prepared a preliminary report describing the restored skull and submitted it for publication in Sumer.
On his return from Baghdad he resumed his research on the skeletal material excavated by Dr. James A. Ford in 1932 at Point Barrow, Alaska, and completed a report ‘Skeletal Remains from the Vicinity of Barrow, Alaska,” to be published as part of an overall report by the American Museum of Natural History.
Prior to Dr. Stewart’s departure for Iraq, he completed several research projects, including the description of a unique carved bone object from Delaware, and three other papers, entitled ‘‘The Effect of Darwin’s Theory of Evolution on Physical Anthropology,” ‘Stone Age Skull Surgery,” and ‘‘The Rate of Development of Osteo-arthritis in American Whites and its Significance for Age Identification.” At the close of the year Dr. Stewart was completing the analysis of and preparing a paper on a skeletal collection from Venado Beach, Panama, which he has been invited to read at the 33rd International Congress of Americanists, San José, Costa Rica, July 20-27.
Associate curator Marshall T. Newman continued his research and preparation of papers resulting from field work among the Quechua Indians from Hacienda Vicos, Peru. He advanced two manuscripts on the racial anthropology and the blood group systems as parts of a monograph entitled ‘“‘Vicos: Integrated Studies of Environment and Physique in an Isolated Quechua Indian Population.” By-products of the blood-group work resulted in two papers delivered during the year at annual meetings: “‘A Trial Formulation Presenting Evidences from Physical Anthropology for Migrations from Mexico to South America,” and “Blood Group Systems in Latin American Indians.” A manuscript in collaboration with Dr. C. R. Jones, entitled “The Biology of the Wai Wai Indians of British Guiana,” was completed as part of a monograph on the ethnology of the Wai Wai by Betty J. Meggers and Clifford Evans. In collaboration with Dr. Harald Schraer, director of bio-physics laboratory of Pennsylvania State University, Dr. Newman completed a manuscript “Quantitative Roentgenographic Determination of Retarded Skeletal Mineralization in Malnourished Quechua Indian Boys,” and submitted it to Science for publication. At the close of the year Dr. Newman was working on the skinfold and tooth eruption data from Vicos. Dr. Newman continued as a member of the division of anthropology and psychology, National Research Council, and the committee on an international directory of anthropologists. He is a new member of the subcommittee on physical anthropology, National Research Council, and an associate editor of the American Journal of Physical Anthropology.
Ethnology.—Curator Herbert W. Krieger continued his research on Antillean Indian cultures based on documentary sources and on

<<<Page: 65>>>

collections made at village sites in the Bahamas, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, and the Virgin Islands. Mr. Krieger retired on November 30, 1957, after serving 33 years in the department of anthropology.
Acting curator Saul H. Riesenberg completed research on the native syllabary used in the central Caroline Islands. The study is of a natively invented script, hitherto largely unreported and not previously analyzed. The manuscript will be published in a bulletin of the Bureau of American Ethnology and contributes to the scanty literature on the process of stimulus diffusion. Dr. Riesenberg continued his analysis and writing of his field materials from Ponape and Samoa, and will have a monograph on Ponape ready for publication shortly. He made a study trip to the Peabody Museum, Salem, Mass., in connection with his long-range project on the material culture of Micronesia, and a preliminary examination, for the same purpose, of the Micronesian collections at the Chicago Museum of Natural History.
Research by visiting investigators.—From February 7 until June 1, Carlos Angulo, Director of the Instituto de Investigaciones Etnologicas y Museo Arqueologico, Universidad del AtlAntico, Barranquilla, Colombia, worked with associate curator Clifford Evans and research associate Betty J. Meggers on problems of Latin American archeology. As a fellow of the Guggenheim Foundation, Mr. Angulo is undertaking an intense training course in the techniques of classification and interpretation of archeological materials, and has aided Drs. Evans and Meggers in classifying their Upper Orinoco pottery. After a summer field session, Mr. Angulo will return to continue his program of study in the division of archeology.
As a result of an award of a research grant from the National Science Foundation to Drs. Evans and Meggers for the study of aboriginal migration routes in northern South America, research assistant Peter Paul Hilbert, anthropologist of the Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Museu Paraense ‘Emilio Goeldi’” in Para, Brazil, has conducted research in the division of archeology from March 9 to the end of June. During this period Mr. Hilbert, in close cooperation with Drs. Evans and Meggers, analyzed and described materials he had excavated from the Middle Amazon. The results are significant because of the unusual materials used in tempering the aboriginal pottery. These included a siliceous bark of a tree called “cariapé” and sponge spicules from a tree sponge growing along the rivers called “cauinr.”” The use of these materials is so distinctive culturally that it is now possible to relate pottery in the Middle Amazon to that from the eastern side of Peru and Ecuador, as well as to that of adjoining areas, by similarities in temper.

<<<Page: 66>>>

Some of the other visitors who spent shorter periods of time working with the anthropological material in the study collections of Alaskan, Greenland, and Old Copper culture materials, and conferring with staff members, included Dr. Kristjan Eldjarn, Director, National Museum of Iceland, Reykjavik. Dr. E. H. Seilards, University of Texas, studied Paleo-Indian collections from the Horner site, Cody, Wyoming, and the Shoop site, Dauphin County, Pa. Professor Oldemar Blasi, Universidad do Parand, Curitiba, Brazil, examined South American materials, especially those of Brazil, Venezuela, and Argentina. Professor Octavio Durando, Universidad de Costa Rica, San José, Costa Rica, reviewed aboriginal metallurgy of South and Central America. Dr. Stephen Borhegyi, Stovall Museum of History and Science, University of Oklahoma, was especially interested in Formative Period materials from Coastal Ecuador. Dr. Gordon R. Willey, Peabody Museum, Harvard University, examined archeological collections from Ecuador, Venezuela, and British Guiana. Dr. Robert J. and Linda Braidwood, University of Chicago Oriental Institute, worked with the archeological collections from Shanidar, Iraq. Dr. Bruce Howe, Peabody Museum, Harvard University, studied archeological collections from Shanidar, Iraq. Professor H. de Vries, Naturrkundig Laboratorium, Rijke Universiteit,Groningen, Netherlands, was concerned with palaeoclimatology and carbon-14 dating of late Pleistocene. Dr. Friedrich Brandtner (formerly of Vienna), Department of Geology, Yale University, was interested in the late Pleistocene stratigraphy and archeology of Europe and the Near East as well as carbon-14 dating. Mr. Ram Singh, the Georgetown Museum, British Guiana, sought advice on exhibit and storage techniques in anthropology and zoology. Sr. Luiz Castro Faria, Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, studied Brazilian collections and discussed future archeological research projects. Dr. Chew On Kim, Director, Korean National Museum, examined Korean dolls. Professor Leslie White, University of Michigan, investigated Sia Pueblo specimens. Mr. Gregorio F. Zaide, cultural envoy from the Philippines, obtained organizational information with a view to setting up a Philippine National Museum. U Ba Shin, member of the Burma Historical Commission, Rangoon, reviewed the Burmese collections. Mr. J. D. Pearson, Institute of Oriental and African studies, London, was making an inventory of Oriental manuscripts. Prince M. C. Subhadradis Diskul, National Museum, Bangkok, examined the Thai exhibits. Professor Emil Haury, University of Arizona, studied Apache pottery. Dr. Chen Chi-Lu, Taiwan University, reviewed the Formosan collections. Dr. Melvin L. Moss, of the Department of Anatomy, College of Physicians and Surgeons,

<<<Page: 67>>>

Columbia University, x-rayed deformed skulls in the collections to obtain evidence of altered skull growth resulting from artificial deformation. Dr. Ellis Kerley, of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, made a search of children’s skeletons showing a particular stage of bone development, which might reveal material useful in his research program. Dr. Thomas W. McKern, Quartermaster Research and Development Center, Natick, Mass., searched the collections for bones which would give distinctive appearances under exposure to ultraviolet light. This was part of his program to test the utility of ultraviolet light in the identification of skeletal material and especially in the separation of commingled remains.
Zoology
This spring, the fourth of a series ot expeditions generously sponsored by Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin of Wilmington, Del., resulted in visits to 16 islands of the American and British Virgins and the Leeward Islands in the Caribbean. Staff representatives on the 1958 Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition were Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, formerly head curator of zoology, now retired, and Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator of insects. From the Virgin Islands they embarked on the 86-foot schooner Freelance, their home for 6 weeks. The skipper, Capt. Desmond Nicholson, who also skippered the ship in 1956, is an expert diver and marine man, and supplemented the expedition’s personnel very effectively. After departure from St. Thomas, the expedition visited St. John, Tortola, Jost Van Dyke, Sandy Island, Virgin Gorda, Prickly Pear, Peter, Norman Anegada, Anguilla, Sint Maarten, St. Kitts, Nevis, Redonda, Barbuda, and Antigua. The collections made on this trip, while not as large as those made in 1956, are more selective. Visits were made to Dark, Bryant, and Darby Caves on Barbuda and to Bat Cave on Antigua. Dark Cave contains five fresh-water pools where blind shrimp and other crustaceans live. Thousands of millipedes, of a slender species, roamed the floor of the cave. Bryant and Darby Caves are actually ‘‘sinks’”’ caused by the collapse of the roofs of former caverns. The bottom of the Bryant Cave contains a large pool beneath an overhang, and all the rocks and surfaces of the ground are slimy. At Darby Cave, the unique feature is the growth of tall palms and many lianas in contrast to the otherwise scrubby growth of the Island. Bat Cave, on Antigua, is intensely hot and is populated by thousands of bats.
The Smithsonian Institution has again benefited from the BredinSmithsonian Expeditions with valuable specimens added to the National Museum’s reference collection. The Institution is most appreciative to Mr. and Mrs. Bredin for their most generous assistance.

<<<Page: 68>>>

Mammals.—Research on mammals was directed to the continuation of established programs involving major faunal areas, curator David Johnson on southeastern Asia and the Pacific islands, associate curator Henry Setzer on North Africa and the Middle East, and associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., on Panama and eastern United States.
Dr. Setzer visited the laboratories of the Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 in Cairo, Egypt, and carried on field work in the Western Desert, the Delta of the Nile, and southern Sinai.
Shortly after the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. Handley returned from an expedition to Panama, and in January he went back to Panama for two months to join again the field parties of the Gorgas Memorial Institute working on yellow fever surveys. These two trips resulted in a very extensive enlargement of his Panamanian material, adding some 1300 specimens to his series on which will be based his projected report on the mammals of Panama. Assisted by museum aides J. L. Paradiso and B. R. Feinstein, Dr. Handley collected small mammals and birds in the vicinity of Burkes Garden, Tazewell County, Va., during September, and in June on Assateague Island and adjacent areas in Accomack County, Va. In December, Dr. Setzer and Mr. Paradiso collected small mammals in the vicinity of Solomons Island, Calvert County, Md., as part of a cooperative project with the Maryland Department of Research and Hducation. During early March, Mr. Paradiso traveled to Florida and salvaged the skeleton of a rare beaked whale (Mesoplodon) stranded near Vero Beach. As a summer intern, Robert Packard studied American cricetine rodents of the genera Baiomys and Peromyscus in connection with his graduate studies at the University of Kansas.
Birds.—Head curator Herbert Friedmann completed the manuscript of his monograph on the parasitic weaverbirds, and revised portions of the manuscript on the birds of Gabon (with A. lL. Rand and M. A. Traylor). He began a critical survey of the biological problems inherent in the phenomenon of parasitic reproduction in birds. Under a grant from the National Science Foundation and with his colleagues Ajl and Rust, Dr. Friedmann has made further progress in the study of the wax-splitting microorganism isolated from the intestinal tract of honey-guides. In particular, its inhibitory effect on the tubercle bacilli has been studied, both in animals experimentally exposed to tuberculosis and in tissue cultures with and without tubercular inoculations. He completed two papers on honeyguides, one on the general biology of the group, and one on new evidence causing certain changes in the taxonomy of these birds. Dr. Friedmann attended the meeting of the Ornithologists Union in September at Cape May, N. J., and in November he visited the

<<<Page: 69>>>

Peabody Museum, Yale University, and the American Museum of Natural History to examine specimens in connection with his research projects.
Associate curator Herbert G. Deignan completed the manuscripts of his catalog of type specimens of birds in the national collections, and of his distributional list of the birds of Thailand. He continued his revisionary studies of bulbuls, babblers, warblers, and other Old World groups for the continuation of the “‘Check-list of Birds of the World” begun by the late J. L. Peters. In November he traveled to Bangkok, Thailand, to attend the Ninth Pacific Science Congress as a delegate from the National Academy of Sciences, and at theclose of the session led a field expedition in northern Thailand.
Museum aide Bernard R. Feinstein completed and published a study of the rosy finch Leucosticte of Arctic Alaska and added further data to his study of the geographic variations of the whiskered auklet, a bird of the northern Pacific.
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, research associate, was away part of the year in southern Africa and also in Panama. While here he devoted much of his time to the study of his Panamanian and Colombian collections. Dr. Wetmore visited a number of museums in southern Africa and initiated arrangements with the National Museum of Southern Rhodesia that have resulted in the receipt of several lots of African bird skeletons, mostly new to the collections.
Dr. Laurence Irving, research associate, completed a large manuscript on the birds of the western American Arctic, especially noteworthy as perhaps the most ambitious attempt to investigate and explain the adaptations of warm-blooded animals to Arctic conditions.
Reptiles and amphibians.—Curator Doris M. Cochran completed a catalog of type material in the national collections containing over 1700 type names, with the pertinent data, synonyms, and geographical and historical data. Dr. Cochran, in collaboration with Dr. C. J. Goin of the University of Florida, began a study of the frogs of Colombia. As a summer intern, J. D. Hardy made a study of his large Cuban collections.
Fishes.—Curator Leonard P. Schultz began a study of the silverhatchet fishes of the western Atlantic to be included in a forthcoming volume on the fishes of the western Atlantic, an extensive cooperative project among American ichthyologists. During the fall, Dr. Schultz studied type specimens at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and at the American Museum of Natural History where he also participated in the board of editors meeting of the Sears Foundation for Marine Research. En route to the University of Miami, Fla., where he packed and shipped to the National Museum the preserved fish specimens collected by Colonel John E. Howard in the tropical

<<<Page: 70>>>

Pacific, he examined fish collections in scientific institutions along the way. He lectured at Albion College, Albion, Mich., on March 16-18, participated in a symposium dealing with attacks made by sharks, held in New Orleans, April 7-11, and on April 13 at the University of Pittsburgh received from the International Federation of Aquarium Societies an award trophy and citation for being ‘Outstanding Aquatic Scientist for the Year 1957.”
Associate curator Ernest A. Lachner advanced his revision of the diskfishes, order Echeneiformes, the only comprehensive worldwide study ever attempted on these creatures, and also began a revision of the families Apogonidae and Mullidae. In recognition of his continuing scientific activity, Dr. Lachner was appointed to the governing board of the American Institute of Biological Sciences, representing the American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists. He was also appointed to the editorial committee for Tulane Studies in Zoology, volume 5, 1957.
Associate curator William R. Taylor continued his study of the fishes of the Arnhem Land Expedition of 1948, and with a revisionary study of the North American catfishes of the genus Noturus.
Research associate Isaac Ginsburg brought close to completion his revision of two genera Hippocampus and Prionotus, and also analyzed the lateral line organs of the American Gobiidae with reference to their taxonomic and evolutionary significance.
Imsects.—Curator J. F. Gates Clarke made final arrangements for the completion and publication of volume 8 of his ‘“Meyrick Types of Microlepidoptera.”” He completed more than 90 percent of his study of the Microlepidoptera of the Juan Fernandez Islands, and spent some time on preliminary examinations of Japanese Microlepidoptera. On March 21 he left for the West Indies as a member of the 1958 Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition. In July he journeyed to Vienna, Austria, to supervise the packing and shipping of the F. T. Tippmann collection of Coleoptera to the U. S. National Museum. In recognition of his scientific activities, he was elected to honorary membership in the Sociedad Crucefia de Ciencias Naturales, Bolivia.
Associate curator O. L. Cartwright completed: his study of the genus Bothynus, and is continuing his studies of Ataenius. On May 1 he traveled to El Salvador where he engaged in field work in connection with his study of Scarabaeidae.
Associate curator R. E. Crabill completed several studies, including contributions to knowledge of the genera Hulithobius and Strigamia, as well as describing a new schendylid from eastern United States. He also contributed a section on the higher categories of the Arachnida for ‘‘A Manual of Acarology.” In order to conclude a number of research projects, Dr. Crabill spent most of August collecting specific
479802—58——_5

<<<Page: 71>>>

groups of Myriapods and Arachnids in certain localities of Massachusetts, Vermont, and New York, at which time he studied certain type specimens in the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Associate curator William D. Field completed a reclassification of the Neotropical butterflies of the genera Hurema, Phoebis, and Aphrissa. He is continuing his investigations of various genera of the Pieridae.
Miss Sophie Parfin completed her study of the bionomics of the Mantispidae and is continuing her investigations of aquatic Neuroptera.
Marine invertebrates.—Curator Fenner A. Chace, Jr., completed a review of the western Atlantic mantis shrimps of the genus Lys?osquilla and is currently studying the fish-cleaning shrimps of the western Atlantic and the eastern and central Pacific, in collaboration with Harry Pederson of McAllen, Tex., and Conrad Limbaugh of the Seripps Institution of Oceanography at La Jolla, Calif.
Associate curator Frederick M. Bayer has completed the handbook of the shallow-water octocorals of the West Indian region, begun in 1946; this extensive manuscript includes descriptions and illustrated keys for the identification of 75 species of soft corals occurring in depths of less than 25 fathoms from Bermuda to Brazil. Dr. Bayer has also completed a manuscript on the pterobranchs in the national collections, including a description of the first species of this unusual phylum to be recorded from the tropical Atlantic. A third manuscript is based on two previously undescribed species of plexaurid gorgonians from the Bahamas, and a fourth is a revision of the octocorals of the genus Paragorgia. In addition to these four completed projects, Dr. Bayer has made considerable progress on a study of the octocorals of northeastern South America, based on collections made by the Coquette and the Oregon.
Associate curator Thomas E. Bowman completed a description of a new copepod of the genus Acrocalanus from off the southeastern United States. He has continued the preparation of his report on the calanoid copepods collected by the Theodore M. Gill in the same region from 1952 to 1954 and his review of the hyperiid amphipods of the genus Parathemisto occurring in the North Pacific and adjacent Arctic seas. Dr. Bowman has also begun a report on the copepods of the bays on the southeastern coast of Puerto Rico.
Associate curator Charles E. Cutress has brought his study of the sea anemones of the Marshall and Gilbert Islands slightly nearer completion, has continued preparation of his revision of the genus Calliactis, and has nearly finished descriptions of two new zoantharians of the genera Parazoanthus and Hpizoanthus from California.
Clarence R. Shoemaker, associate in zoology, has nearly completed

<<<Page: 72>>>

a manuscript on some Pacific American amphipods. His four manuscripts on the amphipod genera Synchelidium, Megaluropus, Platyischnopus, and on the Talitridae of the Atlantic American coast are still in preparation.
In a letter written just prior to his 89th birthday, J. Percy Moore, collaborator, reports: “In addition to a couple of compilations on leeches the only product of original research is one small paper on the Hirudinea from moderately deep water of the Antarctic. New studies for the year were devoted largely to a general study of leeches of the lakes and swamps of the South Atlantic States from Great Dismal Swamp to the Florida Everglades. I have accumulated some material and had hoped to do more collecting last winter from Chapel Hill as a base, but bad weather and other unfavorable conditions seriously interfered.”
Mildred S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea, has written a greatly expanded version of the harpacticoid section for the copepod chapter and a chapter on the Branchiura and the parasitic copepods for the forthcoming edition of Ward and Whipple, ‘‘Fresh-water Biology.”” She has completed parts four, five, and six of a series on North American harpacticoid copepods; these include diagnosis of eight new species, one from Utah being especially noteworthy because it belongs to a genus hitherto known only from marine habitats in northern Europe. Mrs. Wilson has also completed descriptions of three new copepods of the genus Diaptomus from Saskatchewan and a checklist of the calanoid copepods of that Province. Finally, she has finished the bibliographic work, including the cross-indexing of all the literature, and has outlined the work plan and style for her monograph of the North American fresh-water calanoid copepods.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., research associate, has completed manuscripts on two new crayfishes of the genus Procambarus from South Carolina and Georgia, on two additional new species of the same genus from South Carolina, and a contribution toward a knowledge of the crayfishes of Texas. In collaboration with his students, he has finished descriptions of three new crayfishes from Alabama and Mississippi and of a new species of Procambarus from North Carolina (both with Margaret Walton), and observations on the testis of the crayfish Cambarus montanus acuminatus (with B. H. Word, Jr.). Dr. Hobbs has seven other projects under study: a checklist of the North American crayfishes, a monograph of the genus Procambarus, a, monograph of the Mexican entocytherid ostracods, a revision of the Cuban crayfishes, the crayfishes of the Lower Flint-Chattahoochee basin, the cave crayfishes of North America (with T. C. Barr, Jr.), and the ambulatory appendicular musculature of Cambarus scvotensis (with H. Puckett, L. Farmer, and R. Emmons). Dr. Hobbs has

<<<Page: 73>>>

identified several hundred crayfishes for museums and investigators during the past year and he devoted a week in April to collecting in Alabama.
Research associate Bertha M. Cutress visited the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University from May 19 to 23 to study the echinoderm collection there in connection with her project on echinoid spines for the Carter Oil Company.
Harriet Richardson Searle, who was appointed collaborator in the division on January 11, 1901, died on March 28. During the dozen or so years that she was an active member of the staff, Harriet Richardson produced a most creditable amount of systematic research on the isopod crustaceans. Her most notable contribution, the monograph of the isopods of North America, published in 1905, is still a standard reference work for that branch of carcinology. Three men who were closely associated with the division in unofficial capacities during their professional careers died during the past year. Dr. Louis W. Hutchins, specialist on the Bryozoa, died October 27; Dr. Edward G. Reinhard, whose research on the rhizocephalan crustaceans was based in large part on material in the national collections, died January 29; and Dr. Max W. de Laubenfels of Oregon State College, world authority on sponges and for many years unofficial collaborator on that group for the Museum, died on February 4.
During the year, 3,218 specimens were sent to specialists who agreed to identify material of various groups of invertebrates, for most of which there are no specialists on our staff. The specialists rendering these gratuitous services and the groups on which they work are:
Dr. A. Weir Bell, microdrile oligochaete worms.
Dr. John L. Brooks: Cladoceran crustaceans.
Mrs. Josephine F. L. Carl: Cumacean crustaceans.
Miss Ailsa Clark: Crinoid echinoderms.
Dr. Elizabeth Deichmann: Holothurian echinoderms.
Dr. Edward Ferguson, Jr.: Ostracod crustaceans.
Dr. Abraham Fleminger: Calanoid copepod crustaceans.
Dr. G. E. Gates: Earthworms.
Dr. Dora P. Henry: Barnacles.
Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.: Crayfishes.
Dr. Perry C. Holt: Branchiobdellid worms.
Dr. L. B. Holthuis: Decapod crustaceans.
Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: Flatworms.
Dr. N. 8. Jones: Cumacean crustaceans.
Dr. N. T. Mattox: Conchostracan crustaceans.
Dr. Frank J. Maturo, Jr.: Bryozoans.
Dr. Marvin C. Meyer: Leeches.
Dr. Milton A. Miller: Isopod crustaceans.
Dr. George H. Penn: Crayfishes.
Dr. Edward G. Reinhard: Rhizocephalan crustaceans.
Dr. Mary D. Rogick: Bryozoans.
Dr. Willis L. Tressler: Ostracod crustaceans.
Dr. Huzio Utinomi: soft corals.
Mrs. Mildred 8. Wilson: Copepod crustaceans.
Dr. Harry C. Yeatman: Cyclopoid copepod crustaceans.
Mr. F. C. Ziesenhenne: Ophiuroid echinoderms.

<<<Page: 74>>>

Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder continued his studies of certain West Indian species of Muricidae and expected to complete them by the close of the fiscal year. He also was able to advance his account of the superfamilies Pyramidellacea and Cypraeacea and the family Terebridae, to appear in the “Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology” edited by R. C. Moore. He brought close to completion his studies of the marine mollusks of Los Roques Island, and made progress in his nomenclatural study of the molluscan names in the Portland Catalogue, of 1786, and he also worked on descriptions of new species of marine mollusks from Florida and the Caribbean.
Associate curator Joseph P. Morrison added to his accumulation of data on the Hydrobiidae of America, a study of the systematics and ecology of this difficult family. He also added to the materials he has been collecting for a review of the American species of Ellobtidae and of the American brackish-water clams of the family Mactridae.
Research by visiting investigators.—Staff members from Federal agencies and departments continued to use the facilities and consult the collections regularly. As in other years, a large number of investigators from various institutions in the United States, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico visited the department to study specimens or records, or to consult staff members or publications. The tenure of individual study here varied from a few hours or a day to nearly the whole year as in the case of Professor Virgilio Biaggi of the University of Mayagtiez, working on a oew book on Puerto Rican birds. Among the foreign scientists who pursued investigations in the department were Peter Crowcroft, British Museum (Natural History), Helmuth Zapfe, Museum of Natural History, Vienna, and Ian McLaren, Canadian Fisheries Service, who consulted the mammal collection. Among those visiting the collection of fishes were V. L. Vladykov, Quebec, Canada; William A. Dill, Rome, Italy; N. B. Marshall, London, England; Gerd von Wahlert, Bremen, Germany; Salah El-Zarka, Alexandria, Egypt; Uno Holmgren, Uppsala University, Sweden; Dang Joe Koh, Seoul, Korea; Feruya Uyeno, Kumamoto, Japan; John L. Kask, Ottawa, Canada; L. R. V. R. Pillay, Calcutta, India; Tae Yung Chung, Pusan, Korea; Ram Singh, British Guiana; Dr. J. L. B. Smith, Rhodes University, South Africa; Yahio Hiyama, Tokyo University, Japan; Peter Bottome, Caracas, Venezuela; Gilbert P. Whitley, Sydney, Australia; Ryuhei Soto, Tohoko University, Japan. The insect collections were of interest to Dr. Salvatore de la Torre, Oriente, Cuba; Dr. Donald Chant, Belleville, Ontario, Canada; Padre, J. S. Moure, Curitiba, Brazil; Mr. Hans Evers, Hamburg, Germany; C. D. Pelebassis, Athens, Greece; Dr. F. A. Estrada, Managua, Nicaragua; Dr. Frederico Lane, Sad Paulo, Brazil; Dr. Carl H. Lindroth, Lund, Sweden; Dr. Henry F. Howden,

<<<Page: 75>>>

Dr. W. A. Mason and Dr. J. G. Chilcott, Ottawa, Canada; Dr. S. K. Wischowski, Skierniewice, Poland; Dr. Helmuth Zapfe, Vienna, Austria. The collections of marine invertebrates were consulted by Dr. E. L. Bousfield, National Museum of Canada, Ottawa; Dr. Alceu Lemos de Castro, Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Dr. Patricio SAnchez, Universidad Catélica, Santiago, Chile; Dr. W. Stephenson, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia, and Dr. Olive S. Tattersall, Hayling Island, Hants, England. Dr. Bengt Hubendick, Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden, visited the mollusk collections.
Botany
Phanerogams.—Curator Lyman B. Smith organized his 1956-57 collections from the planalto of Santa Catarina, Brazil, and used the resulting data to carry forward phytogeographical research on the origin of the flora of southern Brazil. He has continued his studies of the Bromeliaceae, and has published several papers on this family during the year, including one extensive paper on the species in Colombia. Dr. Smith has begun the preparation of a complete monograph of this family which will include approximately 1,700 species. With Dr. R. J. Downs, he completed a study of the Euphorbiaceae of the State of Santa Catarina, Brazil; the manuscript includes 27 genera and 103 species and will be published in “‘Sellowia.” Dr. Bernice Schubert and Dr. Smith published an account of the Begoniaceae of Panama in Woodson and Schery’s ‘‘Flora of Panama.”’ During March he visited the New York Botanical Garden and the Harvard University Herbarium and Library to carry on bibliographic studies.
Associate curator E. H. Walker continued his studies on the flora of Okinawa. The investigation was started in 1951 in cooperation with the scientific investigation of the Ryukyu Islands program of the Department of the Army and its aim is to provide a usable and accurate report of the flora of the region to assist in the development of natural resources for this area. As a prelude to a general treatment of the family Myrsinaceae in the Malaysian region, Dr. Walker is working on a revision of the species in Taiwan. During November and December he traveled to the Ninth Pacific Science Congress in Bangkok, Thailand, where he presided at the symposium ‘‘Bibliographic Problems in Natural Sciences in the Pacific.” En route he visited Japan, Okinawa, Taiwan, Vietnam, and the Philippines, studying in various herbaria, lecturing, and making field collections for the National Museum.
The third and final part of associate curator E. C. Leonard’s major study ‘“‘Acanthaceae of Colombia” was published in February. Nearly

<<<Page: 76>>>

completed is his paper on the Acanthaceae of Argentina describing some one hundred species. He has started working on the Peruvian species of Acanthaceae for publication in Dr. J. F. Macbride’s Flora of Peru. Another long range project, on the flora of Hispaniola, covering more than 3,000 species, has been initiated.
Associate curator Richard S. Cowan completed for publication another installment of the ‘‘Leguminosae and Rutaceae of the Guayana Highland” and published a report on the Leguminosae collected by the Machris Expedition to southern Brazil. In connection with his studies of the caesalpinoid subfamily of the Leguminosae he made significant progress in a monograph of the genus Swartzia. Dr. Cowan has advanced his work on Leguminosae entries for the Index Nomina Genericorum, 700 genera having been treated out of approximately 1,000. To further this study he has made three visits to the New York Botanical Garden.
Associate curator Velva E. Rudd carried forward her studies of the American genera of the Leguminosae, subtribe Aeschynomeninae, and published an account of one genus of this group under the title ‘“‘A revision of the genus Chaetocalyx.”’ She has begun a revision of the American species of Ormosia.
Research associate E. P. Killip continued collecting plants from southern Florida and the Isle of Pines, Cuba.
Grasses.—Curator Jason R. Swallen carried forward his studies of the grasses of southern Brazil. Five new species of grasses collected by Dr. E. Y. Dawson on the Machris Brazilian Expedition were described and published by the Los Angeles County Museum.
Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, has continued to keep the comprehensive catalog of grass genera, species, and varieties up to date and to check some of the older citations in books that are not readily available. Much of her time has been devoted to editing the manuscript of the revision of Aronopus by the late Dr. George Black and to working on the large collection of Brazilian grasses assembled by him, particularly the specimens of Paspalum.
Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, continued his studies of the bamboos under the auspices of the Maria Moors Cabot Foundation of Harvard University and the National Science Foundation. Under a grant by the Cabot Foundation, Dr. McClure visited Europe for the purpose of annotating and photographing types and critical specimens in herbaria at Paris and London for use in the revision of the Bambusoideae for the new edition of Engler and Prantl’s ‘‘Natiirlichen Pflanzenfamilien.”” He consulted with Dr. W. N. Pirie and Dr. D. J. Watson at the Rothamsted Experiment Station, Harpenden, Hertshire, England, on the subject of the relative efficiency of different species of plants in utilizing and storing the sun’s energy

<<<Page: 77>>>

in forms valuable to mankind. Four days were spent with members of the Irish Department of Agriculture evaluating the prospect for the cultivation of bamboos on the peatlands of Western Hire, particularly at the site of the New Experiment Station at Glen Amoy, County May. At the request of the South Pacific Commission, Dr. McClure prepared a paper, “Bamboo for the Pacific Islands.” His illustrated manuscript entitled ‘Bamboo in the Economy of Oriental Peoples’? has been selected for publication in the current annual report of the Smithsonian Institution.
Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton continued his studies of tropical American ferns, with particular emphasis on species occurring in Cuba and the West Indies. Research was carried forward on commercial cultivated ferns and four papers dealing with the economically important genera Davallia, Cyrtomium, Microlepia, and Nephrolepis were prepared. During August and September he studied native flora in northern California, on the annual field trip of the American Fern Society. He attended the annual meeting of the American Institute of Biological Sciences, where he served as judge for the best paper delivered at the sessions of the American Society of Plant Taxonomists.
Cry ptogams.—Associate curator Paul S. Conger carried on his research of the diatom flora of Chincoteague Bay, Md., continuing also with his revision of the genus Grammatophora and studies on abnormal forms and variations among certain diatoms. He began a study of Antarctic diatoms based largely on extensive collections from the British-Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition.
Associate curator Mason E. Hale, Jr., assuming his duties in June 1957, conducted research on a major and long-term project of writing a lichen flora of the eastern United States. Dr. Hale carried on extensive field work in connection with this study, making trips to New Jersey, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. A large number of type specimens and approximately 1,000 collections from the West Indies have been studied and annotated in connection with a monographic revision of the lichen genus Parmelia in tropical America. Other research studies included experiments on the chemical strains of several eastern North American lichens. Dr. Hale visited the New York Botanical Garden, the Farlow Herbarium of Harvard University, the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Yale University, Wellesley College, and the University of Florida to study herbarium specimens and to arrange for loans. He delivered a paper, ‘“‘Biospeciation in the lichen Cetraria ciliaris,” at the meeting of the Association of Southeastern Biologists, Tallahassee Fla.

<<<Page: 78>>>

Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. José Cuatrecasas continued as a resident investigator on the basis of a grant received by the Smithsonian Institution from the National Science Foundation, and prepared the greater part of a monograph of the Humiriaceae. Dr. Kittie F. Parker, formerly of the University of Arizona, continued her research on the western Compositae. Dr. Marshall C. Johnston, of the University of Texas, studied the flora of the southwestern United States, using the herbarium on weekends throughout 1957.
Also consulting the department’s collections were D. S. Correll, Texas Research Foundation; Hui Lin Li, Morris Arboretum; Rogers MeVaugh, University of Michigan; Harold E. Moore, Jr., Cornell University; C. H. Muller, Santa Barbara College; Richard Evans Schultes, Harvard University; Robert KE. Woodson, Jr., Washington University; Alan A. Beetle, University of Wyoming; Clara Weishaupt, Ohio State University; Carl Grassl, U. S. Department of Agriculture; Mrs. Elizabeth Gilman, Washington, D. C.; Irving Knobloch, Michigan State University; Donald F. Huttleston, Longwood Gardens; James Maysilles, Hanover College; John T. Mickel, University of Michigan; Edgar T. Wherry, University of Pennsylvania; Rudolph Becking, Pennsylvania State University; Elva Lawton, Hunter College; A. J. Sharp, University of Tennessee; Rudolph Schuster, University of Massachusetts; Fr. Conan J. Taylor, St. Clement Friary; W. A. Weber, University of Colorado; Charles Reimer, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; C. M. Palmer, Robert A. Taft Sanitary Engineering Center; Edair Smoockler, Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation; Samson McDowell, Maryland State Teachers College; Fred Kadey, Johns-Manville Research Center; and Arthur Statter, New York Microscopical Society.
The following distinguished foreign visitors made use of the National Herbarium during the year: Lucio Arce, Cochambamba, Bolivia; Genshu Asata, University of the Ryukyus, Okinawa; Clare R. Baltazar, Bureau of Plant Industry, Manila, Philippine Islands; Jacques Barrau, South Pacific Commission, Noumea, New Caledonia; Onaldo Boelcke, University of Buenos Aires, Argentina; Luis A. Camargo, Seminario Clautiaus, Bosa, Colombia; Alfredo Elio Cocucci, Cérdoba, Argentina; Alfonso Criales, La Paz, Bolivia; A. L. de Castra, Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; A. Dilmy, Herbarium Bogoriense, Indonesia; A. Fernandez P., Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogota, Colombia; Armando Dugand, Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogot&é, Colombia; Dr. and Mrs. H. R. Fletcher, Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh, Scotland; Brother Ginés, Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle, Caracas, Venezuela; Kazuo Goto, National Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Tokyo, Japan; R. E. Holttum, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England; J. G. D. Lamb, Johnstown

<<<Page: 79>>>

Castle Agricultural College, Wexford, Ireland; P. N. Mehra, Punjab University, Amritsar, India; Fritz Mattick, Botanisches Museum, Berlin-Dahlem, Germany; Patricio Montaldo, Jardin Botdnico Nacional, Vista del Mar, Chile; Wilma Ormond, Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Mario Ospina M., Bogota, Colombia; Jun Takeda, University of Hokkaido, Japan; A. R. Teizeira, Instituto de Botanica, Sao Paulo, Brazil; Wenceslao Tovar-Mozo, Bogoté, Colombia; Francisco Tamayo, Ministério de Agricultura y Cria, Caracas, Venezuela; Nestor Uscategui M., Instituto de Anthropologia, Bogoté, Colombia; Gregorio T. Velasquez, University of the Philippines, Quezon City, Philippine Islands; J. Wilson, British Rayon Association, Manchester, England; and Umpai Yongboonkird, Bangkok, Thailand.
Staff members of other United States government agencies, especially the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture, continue to use the facilities of the department regularly.
Geology
Division of mineralogy and _ petrology.—Curator George Switzer completed the annual review of the diamond industry and continued work on a long-term research project dealing with the sulfate and related minerals.
Associate curator Edward P. Henderson completed part 2 of a paper entitled ‘“‘Meteorites from Georgia.’”’ Two papers resulted from Mr. Henderson’s participation in the U. S. Air Force research program with meteorites. They are: “Evidence on the Nature of Airflow Around Stony Meteorites in Flight,” and “Morphological Study of the Grants, New Mexico, Meteorite.’”” Work progressed on several continuing projects, including a study of hexahedrites, metallic inclusions in iron meteorites, and the morphology of meteorites.
Associate curator Roy S. Clarke, Jr., who joined the staff in October 1957, made chemical analyses of the Grant and Boaz meteorites and began work on two long-range research projects: a study of the system Na,O—CaO-B,0;-H,O0; and a study of methods of chemical analysis for stony and iron meteorites.
Associate curator Paul E. Desautels, appointed August 26, 1957, began a study of the lead oxychloride and associated slag minerals of Laurium, Greece. This work will be greatly aided by the receipt during the year of nearly 400 pounds of Laurium slag, a gift from the University of Athens.
Division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.— Head curator G. Arthur Cooper completed his study of Recent and Tertiary rhynchonelloid brachiopods. Twenty-one genera, seven of them new, are discussed and details of their anatomy described. Little

<<<Page: 80>>>

progress was made on the Mississippian and Devonian projects initiated during the previous year. Considerable progress, however, can now be reported in the Glass Mountains Permian project, which has been continuing for the past 19 years. Dr. Richard E. Grant, University of Texas, under a grant from the National Science Foundation, is participating in this program. After a short orientation period and two visits to the Glass Mountains, Dr. Grant started the descriptive work. He completed the revision of the Permian Orthoidea of the Glass Mountains and is now deeply immersed in the specific work on the Strophomenoidea, a large and prolific group of very complex brachiopods.
In early September, Dr. Cooper and Dr. Grant worked in the Glass Mountains of Texas, measuring some newly discovered sections and revising details of the stratigraphy as the result of new discoveries there, and on a return trip in May were able to gain information hitherto unobtainable and to complete study of the Permian strata along the Glass Mountain front. Collections from new localities are expected to add new species as well as additional information. During the November meetings of the Paleontological Society, Dr. Cooper gave his presidential address entitled, ‘“The Science of Paleontology.”’ On April 10, he delivered the Gurley lecture at Cornell University on the ecology of productoid brachiopods. The Mary Clarke Thompson medal of the National Academy of Sciences was presented to Dr. Cooper on April 28, 1958, for his work in geology (stratigraphy) and paleontology (brachiopods).
Associate curator Porter M. Kier, appointed in June 1957, prepared a paper on Upper Paleozoic echinoids, among the rarest of echinoderm fossils. Among his achievements in this connection is the preparation of the only known Pennsylvanian echinoid which is nearly complete and is the largest Paleozoic echinoid known, as well as the largest of all cidaroid echinoids. The preparation was a difficult one as the specimen had to be cut out of solid limestone. Another project of Dr. Kier’s is a study of the Paleozoic starfishes in the national collection. Many new and interesting specimens have been accumulated over the years since Dr. Charles Schuchert wrote a monograph on these rare fossils in 1915.
Associate curator Richard S. Boardman, who assumed his duties on July 1, has spent most of his research time since then on the completion of his extensive manuscript on Devonian (Hamilton) trepostomatous bryozoans. The material is exceptionally well preserved and has provided much new information that is fundamental to bryozoan taxonomy. Dr. Boardman has begun work on two papers: one on the rhomboporoid bryozoans of the Devonian (Hamilton), and the other a restudy of three type species of bryozoans that were

<<<Page: 81>>>

inadequately described. He accompanied a small party of U. S. Geological Survey geologists to the famous Falls of Ohio region near Louisville, Ky., where they studied the geological sequence and made collections of topotype material from the Devonian strata.
Museum aide Henry B. Roberts continued his studies on Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plain fossil crabs. He completed the revision of his manuscript on the Upper Cretaceous decapods of New Jersey and Delaware and prepared a large collection of Upper Cretaceous crabs from Mississippi for study. The Mississippi collection contains several new species for which descriptions are being drafted.
Lawrence B. Isham, scientific illustrator, assisted the research of the staff of the department and that of other museum personnel as well. He prepared more than 500 pencil and pen and ink drawings of fossils, made up 62 plates, retouched pictures of fossils, and prepared charts and diagrams. The high quality and accuracy of Isham’s drawings are now legendary among paleontologists.
Jack Scott, photographer for the department, prepared 470 negatives and 1,626 prints for all divisions in the few months since this job was established. His pictures are of the highest quality, and his work is invaluable to the research of the department.
Division of vertebrate paleontology.—Curator C. L. Gazin completed a review, based on collections from the Bridger and Green River formations of Wyoming and Utah and from the Sespe and Poway formations of southern California, of primate evolution in North America from its culmination in middle Eocene through its wane in late HKocene time. Emphasis is placed on adaptive convergence in primate development and the probability is considered that the western or platyrrhine monkeys originated from a North American ancestry, indedependent of the Old World or catarrhine monkeys. Dr. Gazin is also describing a new artiodactyl] from the upper Eocene of Utah; he started the study of the Eocene condylarth Hyopsodus; and is investigating mammals from the lower Eocene Knight formation of southwestern Wyoming. In the summer of 1957, Dr. Gazin and exhibits specialist Franklin L. Pearce worked in the Bridger formation (middle Eocene) in southwestern Wyoming, searching intensively in the vicinity of Sage Creek, Smith’s and Black’s Forks between Grizzly and Church Buttes, and around Twin Buttes. Excellent skulls and other skeletal materials of primates, rodents, and perissodactyls were found, some of which will be prepared for exhibition. En route to the field they studied mounted skeletons of the Oligocene horse Mesohippus and camel Poebrotherium at the museum of the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology. {n November Dr. Gazin addressed the annual meeting of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology at Philadelphia and attended meetings of the Geological Society of America and

<<<Page: 82>>>

the American Geological Institute at Atlantic City. As a part of his research program to advance studies of Eocene primates and to borrow needed specimens, he also visited the Los Angeles County Museum, Princeton University, Yale University, Amherst College, the American Museum of Natural History and the Carnegie Museum. He continues to represent the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology in the earth sciences division of the National Research Council, attending their meetings in March and April, and serves as chairman of the Eocene subcommittee on nomenclature and correlation of the North American Cenozoic formations of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology.
Associate curator David Dunkle, still almost wholly occupied with the exhibit modernization of the lower vertebrate hall, completed a paper, ““Three North American Cretaceous Fishes,” that corrects some misunderstanding of the biology and stratigraphy of these important fishes, and continued the delicate chemical preparation and serial sectioning of Jurassic fishes from Cuba, tasks that are yielding amazing results. Visits were made to the Carnegie Museum at Pittsburgh and the American Museum of Natural History in New York City to study fossil fishes. He continued to serve as chairman of the committee on National Science Foundation post-doctoral fellowships for the earth sciences division of the National Research Council.
Associate curator Peter P. Vaughn made a study of a pelycosaurian brain-case with teeth on the parasphenoid bone, a rare occurrence not hitherto reported in this group of reptiles. He also completed studies of a specimen of Captorhinikos from the Hennessey formation of Oklahoma that yielded a correlation with the Clear Fork group of the lower Permian of Texas and more anatomical details of this reptile; a study of the geological range of Hryops and demonstration that this amphibian existed in late Pennsylvanian times; and a description of a new, small pelycosaur from lower Permian deposits near Fort Sill, Okla. Dr. Vaughn, who is also working with Dr. G. Edward Lewis of the U. S. Geological Survey on a study of the fauna of the Cutler formation of southern Colorado, visited the area and conferred with Dr. Lewis in Denver. In October, with William EH. Moran, a former employee of the vertebrate laboratory, and John J. Burke of Vandergrift, Pa., Dr. Vaughn explored parts of the Dunkard series (lower Permian) in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The party obtained several skulls of the nectridian amphibian Diploceraspis and fragments of labyrinthodont amphibians from the Mauch Chunk (Upper Mississippian) near Greer, W. Va.
Assisted by exhibits preparator John H. Ott, Dr. Vaughn and R. D. Widman of the National Park Service spent two months in the spring collecting from Permian beds in Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, and

<<<Page: 83>>>

Colorado. They found many fishes, amphibians and reptiles, and an especially interesting fauna near the top of the Clyde formation in Texas. The largest known dinosaur bone, a seven-foot humerus of the sauropod dinosaur Brachiosaurus, was presented to Dr. Vaughn for the collections of the Smithsonian Institution by D. E. Jones of Delta, Colo. Mr. Jones found this specimen in 1955, in the Morrison formation, Upper Jurassic of Colorado. At the meeting of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology in Atlantic City in November, he took part in a discussion on early dichotomy in reptilian phylogeny. Later that month he examined specimens of labyrinthodont amphibians at the Museum of Comparative Zoology and discussed his field plans for his trip to the Texas Permian with Dr. A. S. Romer.
Research by visiting investigators.—Mineralogical materials for research purposes were furnished to investigators in many U. S. Government agencies and other organizations, including the U. S. Geological Survey; U. S. Atomic Energy Commission; National Bureau of Standards; Naval Research Laboratory; McGill University, Montreal, Canada; Cambridge University, Cambridge, England; Brookbaven National Laboratory, Upton, N. Y.; Academy of Sciences, Committee on Meteorites, Moscow, U. S. 8. R.; Nagoya University, Chikusa, Japan; Mineralogisk-Geologisk Museum, Oslo, Norway; Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Melbourne, Australia; British Museum (Natural History), London, England; University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, Scotland; Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden; Socony Mobile Oil Co., Inc., Paulsboro, N. J.; and many other similar organizations both in this country and abroad.
Foreign visitors using the collections of invertebrate paleontology included Dr. R. J. Dingman, Chile; Dr. F. Vioten, Mexico; Dr. J. A. Jeletzky, Geological Survey of Canada; Miss Priscilla Militante, University of the Philippines; Miss June Phillips, University of Sydney, Australia; Dr. A. F. M. Haque, Geological Survey of Pakistan; Dr. A. Lehman, Hamburg University, Hamburg, Germany; Prof. Tatsuro Matsumoto, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan; Dr. E. T. Ashworth, International Petroleum Co., Peru; Dr. Horacio Comacho, San Andres, Argentina.
Among investigators from American institutions now working on the invertebrate paleontology collections are Dr. A. K. Miller, University of Iowa, Permian ammonoids from Texas; Dr. R. C. Moore, Kansas University, Permian corals, bryozoans and crinoids from Texas; Dr. N. D. Newell, American Museum of Natural History, Permian pelecypods from Texas; Dr. Roger Batten, University of Wisconsin, pleuortomarid gastropods from the Permian of Texas;

<<<Page: 84>>>

and Dr. H. B. Whittington, Museum of Comparative Zoology, silicified trilobites from the Ordovician of Virginia.
Users of the collections in the division of vertebrate paleontology included Dr. Pierce Brodkorb, University of Florida, fossil birds; Dr. John A. Dorr, Jr., University of Michigan, Paleocene mammals; Dr. Joseph T. Gregory, Yale University and Frank E. Peabody, University of California at Los Angeles, unusual Permian tetrapods from Fort Sill, Okla.; Dr. Max K. Hecht, Queens College, New York City, fossil lizard materials; Natascha Heintz, Paleontologisk Museum, Oslo, Norway, study of preparation and exhibition techniques and a general review of lower vertebrate remains; Dr. Kenneth A. Kermack, University College, London, England, comparison with Mesozoic mammal material of materials secured by him from Triassic fissures in the south of Wales; Bryan Patterson, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Mesozoic mammals, as part of an investigation of primitive Mammalia from the Trinity formation in Texas; Jobn N. Ostrom, Beloit College, Wis., examined hadrosaurian skulls; Dr. Bobb Schaeffer, American Museum of Natural History, Newark (Triassic) fishes from Virginia; Herbert H. Winters, University of California at Berkeley, fossil turtles; Dr. H. E. Wood, II, Rutgers University, land mammals of the Chesapeake Group; and Dr. Helmuth Zapfe, Museum of Natural History, Vienna, Austria, fossil primates.
Science and Technology
Although the primary present consideration of the department is the design of halls for the Museum of History and Technology, vonsiderable research has been accomplished. This includes the study of general exhibition concepts and their implementation.
Physical sciences.—Head curator Robert P. Multhauf completed three research papers entitled ‘‘Paracelsus,” ‘“Libavius and Beguin,” and “Surveying Instruments, their Use and their Invention.” He delivered a paper entitled ‘‘The Role of the Technical Museum in Engineering Education” to the American Society for Engineering Education at Berkeley, Calif., served as a member of an advisory committee on the establishment of an Institute for the History of Technology at Case Institute, Cleveland, and has been appointed delegate of the History of Science Society to the American Association for the History of Science.
Consultant Derek J. Price finished his tenure as advisor of exhibits in physics and astronomy on January 3, 1958. While associated with the division, he completed several research papers and delivered addresses on the history of science before the National Academy of

<<<Page: 85>>>

Sciences, the History of Science Society, the Washington History of Science Club, and other organizations.
Mechanical and civil engineering.—Associate curator Edwin A. Battison is now preparing a monograph of the Waterbury nonjeweled watch. His work on a catalog of the phonograph collection is being carried forward. Mr. Battison is a new member of the Museum Committee of the National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors.
Electricity.— Acting curator W. James King completed a paper on the magnetic theory of William Gilbert. He is presently engaged in examining the Elihu Thomson collection at the American Philosophical Society Library and the archives of the General Electric Research Laboratory.
Transportation.—Curator Howard I. Chapelle, assuming his duties in September 1957, completed his revision of the catalog of the watercraft collection. Considerable progress has been made in the drawing and specifications of ship models to be acquired for the Museum of History and Technology.
Agriculture and wood products.—Curator W. N. Watkins continued his study of the origin of furniture woods and in February spent several days examining the slide collection at Duke University School of Forestry. Associate curator Edward C. Kendall completed a paper on the early John Deere Plow, and is now investigating the early McCormick reaper and its cutting apparatus.
Medical sciences.—Curator George Griffenhagen completed an article on the origin of the apothecary show globe and, with Dr. Glenn Sonnedecker, Director of the American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, a study of the origin of the sugar-coated pill and tablet, published in August 1957, and is currently working on an encyclopedic study of drug jars. His research associated with these various projects involved several field trips to a number of art institutes and museums throughout the country. Mr. Griffenhagen served as Secretary-General of the Fourth Pan-American Congress of Pharmacy and Biochemistry, held in Washington, D. C., November 3-9, 1957. He was reelected Secretary of the American Pharmaceutical Association, Section on Historical Pharmacy.
Associate curator John B. Blake, who joined the division on July 1, 1957, has completed a paper on Benjamin Waterhouse, first professor of medicine at Harvard University, which was read to the Henderson Medical History Club, Cleveland, Ohio. He also delivered a lecture on ‘‘Dental History and the Smithsonian Institution,” to the American Academy of the History of Dentistry at Miami, and another on “Medical History and the Smithsonian Institution,” to the Richmond Academy of Medicine, Richmond, Virginia.

<<<Page: 86>>>

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH ed
Research by visiting investigators.—In connection with research on current meters A. H. Frazier, U. S. Department of the Interior, examined the collections, using them extensively in the project.
Howard N. Barr of Baltimore, Md., visited the department on several occasions during the year transcribing records of Baltimore and Ohio locomotives with the intention of publishing a revised and complete roster of Baltimore and Ohio motive power.
Forrest Cromwell of Washington, D. C., collector of watches, studied the reference collection of watches in connection with a project to establish a definitive collection in this field.
Arts and Manufactures
Industrial cooperation.—Head curator Philip W. Bishop provided introductions and headnotes for a 2-volume collection of readings in the history of science selected by George I. Schwartz of the Department of Biology, New York University. Research on Alexander Lyman Holley’s contribution to the United States steel industry was continued. Dr. Bishop has been invited to contribute a chapter covering the introduction of industrial techniques during the colonial period and the technical development of United States industry up to 1850, to “Histoire Générale des Techniques” to be published in 1960 under the editorship of Maurice Daumas of the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers, Paris.
Textiles.—Acting curator Grace L. Rogers continued research on copperplate-printed fabrics and other printing techniques. New and important facts concerning the important textile machines in the division’s collections have been revealed during the renovation of these machines. Significant errors in the assembly of the Slater spinning frame were detected. Miss Rogers and Donald Holst, exhibit worker, are compiling this information in the form of a historical and technical report. This report, with notes on new information on the Schofield wool-carding machine, the Slater carding machine and several others, is scheduled for publication during 1959.
Ceramics and glass.—Acting curator Paul V. Gardner is studying little-known articles of French porcelain, enamels, jewelry, and ancient glass in the Alfred Duane Pell Collection and the John Gellatly Collection.
Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen completed his critical monograph on John Baptist Jackson (1700?-1780?), an English artist who pioneered in color printing from woodblocks. This study, based upon new evidence, assigns a more important role to Jackson than he has previously been given and provides a record of his career and a complete catalog of his work.
479802—58——6

<<<Page: 87>>>

Associate curator Alexander J. Wedderburn continued his study of the work of Henry Fitz, Jr., who is reputed to have made daguerreotype portraits as early as 1839.
Assistant curator Fuller O. Griffith began work on a checklist of lithographs of Childe Hassam (1859-1935).
Research by visiting investigators.—Visitors to the Departments of Arts and Manufactures included Sir William Coldstream, Member of the Arts Council of Great Britain and Slade Professor of Fine Arts in the University of London; Mr. Lawrence Alloway, Deputy Director, Institute of Contemporary Arts, London; Mr. Nobuya Abe, Editor and Artist of Tokyo; Miss Ethelena Shamis, Museum of Modern Art, Sao Paulo; and Mr. Aldemir Martins, Brazilian artist.
Dr. Louis Walton Sipley, Director, American Museum of Photography, Philadelphia, gathered information on the history of half-tone printing; Louise F. Howell, Southold, N. Y., was provided with copies of photographs in connection with a research project she is conducting concerning early American photography; J. D. Hatch, Jr., Director of the Norfolk Museum, was given information regarding early motion picture history; and D. MacKenzie, Technical Officer, Welland Division, St. Lawrence Seaway Authority, Ontario, Canada, was provided with information on underwater photography.
Civil History
Head curator Anthony N. B. Garvan assumed his duties in October 1957, and is conducting research on the application of anthropological techniques to history. He completed a study, ‘“The New England Silver Porringer—Its Symbolism and Social Significance.”’ Projects in progress are ‘““The Urban Practice of the Penn Proprietary,”’ ‘Index of American Cultures—Boston, 1675-1725,” and “An Account of American Custom.”
Cultural history.—Acting curator C. Malcolm Watkins joined Frank M. Setzler, head curator of anthropology, in excavating the mid-18th-century site of the second courthouse of Stafford County, Va. It was discovered that the foundation plan matched exactly those of certain other contemporary courthouses in Virginia. Mr. Watkins continued his long-range investigation of 17th-century pottery from colonial sites and was able to complete the study of North Devon pottery and its shipment to America. This was facilitated by a trip to the archeological laboratory of Plimoth Plantation, Inc., at Plymouth, Mass. He delivered lectures at the tenth anniversary of the Dallas Glass Club and at the Henry Ford Museum Lectures series at Dearborn. He continues to serve as a consultant-member of the

<<<Page: 88>>>

Independence Hall Furnishings Committee, Independence National Historical Park, and as advisor on furnishings at Gunston Hall.
Associate curator G. Carroll Lindsay advanced his study of American silver by making several trips to the Henry F. du Pont Winterthur Museum for comparative examinations. On visiting Isle of Wight County, Va., he located and photographed the house from which the room finish was removed for the ‘‘Virginia parlor” in the hall of everyday life in early America. He prepared a complete chain of property titles and discovered both an inventory of the owner at the time the room was installed and a plat of the entire property. On a trip to Alton, Ill., Mr. Lindsay made selections from the collection of the late Daisy Mae Templin for several of the museum’s divisions. During the year he has given many lectures on silver and furniture.
Assistant curator Rodris C. Roth completed a paper, ‘“Tea Drinking: Its Etiquette and Equipage in 18th-century America,” as part of a larger study of household surroundings in colonial and Federalperiod America. In connection with this project Miss Roth visited twelve libraries in New England and New York, studying prints, paintings, and decorative arts.
Political history.—Acting curator Wilcomb E. Washburn joined the staff February 3, 1958. He has published a study of Bacon’s Rebellion in Virginia in 1676-1677, and is now engaged in a documentary study of that episode. Dr. Washburn is also making a study of ‘The Legal and Moral Justifications for Dispossessing the American Indian,” and a portion of this study will be published during the coming year.
Associate curator Margaret Brown Klapthor continued her study of White House furnishings and china. She advised the staff of the White House during the rearranging and cataloging of their collection of White House china, assisted the Tryon Palace Commission in New Bern, N. C., on the subject of costumes, and lectured in Lexington, Ky., and St. Louis, Mo., on teaching proper museum techniques for the preservation and exhibition of costumes and related textiles. “White House Fashions and Decorations” was her subject at the Annual Lecture Series of the New Jersey Historical Society and Rutgers University. Mrs. Klapthor has written a history of Charles County, Maryland, for publication during the tercentenary anniversary of that county in 1958.
Assistant curator Charles G. Dorman brought nearer to completion his ‘Survey of Delaware Cabinet Makers, 1700-1830.”
Assistant curator Anne W. Murray made significant progress on her research project, ‘“‘A Catalog of the Copp Collection.”
Numismatics.—Curator Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli continued his study of American engravers and medallists, and his work on two

<<<Page: 89>>>

studies, “Reattribution of some Alexander Coins” and ‘‘Chronology of the Lysimachus Series of Kallatis.”” During the past year he visited the United States Mint in Philadelphia to study in detail coining operations. In a visit to Charlotte, N. C., he was able to study documents and engravings furnishing information about mining and minting in Charlotte and Mecklenburg county during the 19th century. A visit to the Yale University Library gave him an opportunity to inspect its important collection of American and foreign coins and paper currencies. The early 18thand 19th-century currency situation in New England formed the subject of research at the Archives of the State Library and at the State Treasury in Hartford, Conn.
Assistant curator Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, appointed in September 1957, completed a study of world gold coinages struck since 1933 with an introductory study on the legal status of the different issues. <A study of ‘“Modern Italian Engravers and their Work”’ is in course of completion. Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli conducted research on the modern gold coinages of the world issued since 1800, a continuing project that will include over 3000 different types.
Philately and postal history.—Assistant curator Francis J. McCall investigated and examined public and private holdings in Washington, D. C., Cleveland, St. Louis, New Orleans, Charleston, S. C., New York, and St. Petersburg. Talks to philatelists were given in most of these cities. He has been named a member of the committee of postal history of the American Philatelic Society.
Armed Forces History
Naval history.—Head curator Mendel L. Peterson completed his study of the life of Daniel Noble Johnson. This study included the editing of a journal written by Johnson, purser’s and captain’s clerk on the U.S. S. Delaware and Enterprise. This document, containing much information of the routine aboard a ship of war during the period of 1841 to 1844, was made available to Mr. Peterson through the generosity of Irving Hoffman, grandson of Mr. Johnson.
Military history.—Acting curator Edgar M. Howell completed a long article for the Encyclopaedia Britannica 16th edition, on partisan warfare. He also completed two papers ‘Preserving the Army’s Past,’ and ‘‘Officer’s Coat, Period of the Revolution.” He studied museum collections, preservation methods, and exhibit techniques in the New York and Chicago areas.
Assistant curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., completed for publication a paper entitled ‘“New Notes on the Hall Rifle, Model 1819.” He continued his studies of the Maynard and Ames firearms and papers

<<<Page: 90>>>

and visited Connecticut and Massachusetts for the purpose of studying the arms collections of the Winchester and Colt Companies and those in the United States arsenal at Springfield.
Research by visiting investigators.—Paul F. Cooper, Cooperstown, New York, performed extensive research on the Hall Arctic Expedition papers; Commander Levy Scavarda of the Brazilian Navy visited the division of naval history for a period of two weeks to study museum procedures; and Harold Peterson of the National Park Service completed his study of knives in the national collections and examined a number of bullet molds. The usual assistance was given outside researchers from government and private agencies, notably the National Geographic Society.

<<<Page: 91>>>

Publications
The scientific publications of the National Museum continued under the editorship of John S. Lea, assisted by Ernest E. Biebighauser, who also serves as editor of the Proceedings. On June 23, 1958, Mrs. Mary M. Ingraham joined the editorial staff as editorial clerk and proofreader.
In addition to the Annual Report, the Museum issued 27 publications based on research in the national collections. Of these, 2 were in the Bulletin series, 17 were in the Proceedings series, and 8 were Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.
At the close of the year, 10 Proceedings papers and the following Bulletins were in press:
193. A list and index of the publications of the United States National Museum, (1875-1946). Supplement 1: Publications of the United States National Museum, January 1947—June 1958.
202, vol. 2. Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands, by Leonard P. Schultz and collaborators: Wilbert M. Chapman, Ernest A. Lachner, Edward C. Raney, and Loren P. Woods.
212. A checklist of the millipeds of North America, by Ralph V. Chamberlin and Richard L. Hoffman.
214. A review of the parrotfishes, family Scaridae, by Leonard P. Schultz.
216. Ichneumon flies of America north of Mexico: 1. Subfamily Metopiinae, by Henry and Marjorie Townes.
217. The birds of Anaktuvuk Pass, Kobuk, and Old Crow, by Dr. Laurence Irving.
218. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 1-12, by Robert P. Multhauf and others.
219. The National watercraft collection, by Howard I. Chapelle.
Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled 226. These, listed on pages 82 to 94, were distributed as follows:
PubliPubliDepartment cations Department cations ANEHTOPOLOR Y= 1ien nen in Ar ot \Oivil Mel StOnys nett came ime oh NS Botany #0000202 0. 516 3 5 35: “Armed! Forces) History.) sitc-eeenee Geology. 2 ei hiay ts, i Oe ey See aaa ZOOLORY eqs ogre eh wekehewee ae ASO Totaly eee enti Sule US eur teee O Science and Technology ..... 18

<<<Page: 92>>>

Publications of the United States National Museum July 1957 through June 1958
The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30, 1957. Pp vi+137, illustr., January 17, 1958.
211. Life histories of North American blackbirds, orioles, tanagers, and allies, by Arthur Cleveland Bent. Pp ix+549, 37 pls., February 27, 1958.
215. Studies in Foraminifera, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr., and collaborators. Quarto, pp. vi+323, 74 pls., December 30, 1957.
From VOLUME 29
Title page and table of contents. Pp. i-vi, November 15, 1957.
Part 12. Notes on some Brazilian and other Leguminosae, by Arturo Burkart. Pp. 545-552, November 15, 1957.
From VoLuME 30
Title page and table of contents. Pp. i-v, November 15, 1957.
From VoutumeE 31
Title page and table of contents. Pp. i-v, February 4, 1958.
Part 3. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, III: Subfamily Acanthoideae, completed, by Emery C. Leonard. Pp. x+323-781, figs. 119-274, February 4, 1958.
From VoLuME 32
Part 3. A revision of the genus Chaetocalyx, by Velva E. Rudd. Pp. iii, 207-245, 13 figs., February 6, 1958.
From VOLUME 33
Whole volume. The Bromeliaceae of Colombia, by Lyman B. Smith. Pp. i-v-+311, 88 figs., December 24, 1957.
From VoLuME 34
Part 1. Diagnostic characteristics of the fruits and florets of economic species of North American Sporobolus, by Vera Lyola Colbry. Pp. iii+24, 2 figs., 4 pls., December 18, 1957.
From VoutumeE 105
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-iv, 585-618, June 16, 1958.
From Voutume 107
No. 3381. Some littoral barnacles from the Tuamotu, Marshall, and Caroline Islands, by Dora Priaulx Henry. Pp. 25-38, 3 pls., October 21, 1957.
No. 3382. A new species of Calanopia (Copepoda: Calanoida) from the Caribbean Sea, by Thomas E. Bowman. Pp. 39-45, 3 figs., September 4, 1957.
No. 3383. The frogfishes of the family Antennariidae, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 47-105, 8 figs., 14 pls., November 1, 1957.
No. 3384. New American cynipid wasps from oak galls, by Lewis H. Weld. Pp. 107-122, 1 pl., October 23, 1957.
No. 3385. The foraminiferal genus Halyphysema and two new tropical Pacific species, by Alfred R. Loeblich, Jr. Pp. 123-126, 1 pl., January 9, 1958.

<<<Page: 93>>>

. 8386. The leafhopper tribe Alebrini (Homoptera, Cicadellidae), by David
A. Young, Jr. Pp. 127-277, 39 figs., December 4, 1957.
. 833887. Two additional Miocene porpoises from the Calvert Cliffs, Maryland,
by Remington Kellogg. Pp. 279-337, 30 pls., December 9, 1957.
. 3388. Studies of seven siderites, by Edward P. Henderson and Stuart H.
Perry. Pp. 339-403, 6 figs., 22 pls., January 31, 1958.
. 3389. New neotropical wasps of the family Braconidae (Hymenoptera) in
the U. S. National Museum, by C. F. W. Muesebeck. Pp. 405-461, 4 figs., January 27, 1958.
3390. North American copepods of the family Notodelphyidae, by Paul L. Iilg. Pp. 463-649, 19 figs., April 28, 1958.
From VouumeE 108
3391. Pycnaspis splendens, new genus, new species, a new ostracoderm from the upper Ordovician of North America, by Tor @rvig. Pp. 1-28, 5 figs., 3 pls., April 10, 1958.
. 3392. Branchinecta cornigera, a new species of anostracan phyllopod from
the State of Washington, by James E. Lynch. Pp. 25-37, 16 figs., April 15 1958.
. 3393. Type specimens of lice (order Anoplura) in the United States National
Museum, by Phyllis T. Johnson. Pp. 39-49, May 27, 1958.
. 3394. A new North American bird-flea, by F. G. A. M. Smit. Pp. 51-57,
10 figs., May 15, 1958.
. 3396. <A redefinition of the butterfly genera Tatochila, Phulia, Piercolias,
and Baltia, with descriptions of related genera and subgenera, by William D. Field. Pp. 103-131, 40 figs., June 9, 1958.
. 3397. The systematic position of the bird genus Apalopteron, by H. G.
Deignan. Pp. 133-136, 1 pl., June 16, 1958.

<<<Page: 94>>>

Publications by Members of the Staff of the
United States National Museum July 1957 through June 1958
Bayer, Frederick M. Recent octocorals (annotated bibliography). In Hedgpeth, Joel W., editor, Treatise on marine ecology and _ paleoecology. | Belli, Geol. Soc. Amer., Mem. 67, vol. 1, pp. 1105-1108, December 30, 1957.
Additional records of western
Hist. Med. and Allied Sci., vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 86-87, pls. 2, January 1958.
H., Loeblich, A. R., Jr., and Tappan, H. Planktonic foraminiferal families Hantkeninidae, Orbulinidae, Globorotaliidae, and GlobotruncaniAtlantic octocorals. Journ. Wash-| dae. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 215, pp. ington Acad. Sci., vol 47, No. 11 1-50, 1957.
(November 1957), pp. 379-390, Feb-| Bowman, Thomas E. A new species of ruary 1958. Calanopia (Copepoda: Calanoida) Les octocoralliaires plexaurides| from the Caribbean Sea. Proc.
des cétes occidentales d’ Amérique. Mém. Mus. National d’Hist. Nat., Paris (Nouv. Sér.), sér. a, vol. 16, fasc. 2, pp. 41—56, 6 pls., April 5, 1958. and MHarry-Rofen, Robert R. Project Coral Fish looks at Palau. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1956, pp. 481-508, 20 pls., 1957. Blake, John B. Benjamin Waterhouse and the introduction of vaccination: a reappraisal. Yale University Department of the History of Medicine, Monograph series, No. 33. Univ. Pennsylvania Press, Philadelphia, 95 pp., 1957.
American Association of the History of Medicine: report of the thirteenth annual meeting. Bull. Hist. Med., vol. 31, No. 4, pp. 348-374, July-August 1957.
New Hall of Health at the Smithsonian Institution. Journ. Hist. Med.-and Allied Sci., vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 97-98, January 1958.
An early view of the New York City Department of Health. Journ.
Carriker, M. A., Jr.
U. 8. Nat. Mus., vol. 107, No. 3382, pp. 39-45, 3 figs., September 4, 1957. First Pacific record of the whalelouse genus Syncyamus (Amphipoda: Cyamidae). Pacific Sci., vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 181-182, April 1958.
and Diaz-Ungria, Carlos. Isopodos quimotoideos parasitos de peces de las aguas Venezolanas. Mem. Soc. Ciencias Naturales La Salle, vol. 17, No. 47, pp. 112-124, 4 figs., 1957.
Brown, Roland W. Plantlike features in
thunder-eggs and geodes. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1956, pp. 329339, 1957.
Cockroach egg-case from the Eocene of Wyoming. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 47, pp. 340342, 1957.
Notes on some of the Vernon L. Kellogg types of Mallophaga. Microentomology, vol. 22, pt. 5 pp. 95-110, December 1957. A new genus’ and species of parrot louse from South Africa. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., 12th ser., vol.

<<<Page: 95>>>

10, No. 118, pp. 733-736, February 1958.
Cartwright, Oscar LL. Records of Strigoderma teapensis Bates from United States (Scarabaeidae). Coleopterists Bull., vol. 11, p. 32, 1957.
Three new American Aphodinae, with notes and a key to related species (Scarabaeidae). Coleopterists Bull., vol. 11, pp. 55-61, 1957.
Chace, Fenner A., Jr. A new stomatopod crustacean of the genus Lysiosquilla from Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Biol. Bull., vol. 114, No. 2, pp. 141-145, 1 pl., April 1958.
Chapelle, Howard I. Report to the Government of Turkey on fishing boats. FAO Report 706, under expanded technical assistance program. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Rome, Italy, pp. 101, pl. 43, 1957.
Speed under sail. Mariners’
Mirror. Quart. Journ. Soc. Naut.
Res., England, vol. 44, No. 1, pp.
66-69, February 1958.
Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. Gold coins of the 19th and 20th centuries. Corrections and additions to Yeoman’s Catalog of Modern World Coins. Canadian Numismatic Journ., vol. 2, No. 9, pp. 173-176, 1957.
Clarke, J. F. Gates. New species of Batrachedra that attack Agave (Lepidoptera: Cosmopterygidae). Acta Zoologica Mexicana, vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 1-4, illus., 1957.
New Microlepidoptera from Japan (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae). Ent. News, vol. 69, No. 1, pp. 1-5, figs. 1-6, 1958.
Clarke, Roy S., Jr., and Altschuler, Zalman S. Determination of the oxidation state of uranium in apatite and phosphorite deposits. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, vol. 13,
' pp. 127-142, 1958.
Cloud, Preston E., Jr., Barnes, V. E., and Hass, W. H. Devonian-Mississippian transition in central Texas. Bull. Geol. Soe. Amer., vol. 68, No. 7, pp. 807-816, 1957.
Cooke, C. Wythe. Echinoids. In Hedgpeth, Joel W., editor, Treatise on marine ecology and paleoecology. Geol. Soc. Amer., Mem. 67, vol. 1, pp. 1191-1192, 1957.
Cooper, G. Arthur. Permian brachiopods from central Oregon. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 134, No. 12, pp. i-iv, 1-79, pls. 1-12, 1957.
Tertiary and Pleistocene bra-
chiopods of Okinawa, Ryukyu Islands.
U. 8. Geol. Surv. Prof. Paper 314—A,
pp. i-iii, 1-20, pls. 1-5, 1957.
Brachiopods. In Hedgpeth, Joel, W., editor, Treatise on marine ecology and paleoecology. Geol. Soc. Amer., Mem. 67, vol. 1, pp. 11131116, 1957.
Cowan, Richard S. Nomenclatural note. Brittonia, vol. 9, No. 2, p. 132, July 30, 1957.
The Machris Brazilian Expedi-
tion. Botany: Phanerogamae, Le-
guminosae. Contr. Sci. Los Angeles
Co. Mus., No. 13, pp. 1-22, October
1957.
Studies in tropical American
Leguminosae—IV. Brittonia, vol. 10, pp. 28-31, January 1958. Leguminosae. Jn R. E. Schultes,
Plantae Austro-Americanae—X, Bot. Mus. Leafl. Harvard Univ., vol. 18, pp. 142-156, April 1958.
Crabill, R. E. On the identity of the Gunthorp types. Canadian Ent. vol. 89, No. 9, pp. 428-432, 1957.
On the Newport chilopod genera.
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol.
47, No. 10, pp. 343-345, 1957.
A new Garibius from Virginia,
with a key to the known North
American congeners. Journ. Wash-
ington Acad. Sci., vol. 47, No. 11,
pp. 375-377, 1957.
A note on the identity of Parorya
valida Cook. Ent. News, vol. 68,
No. 10, pp. 265-267, 1957.
Report of Geophilus proximus in
North America, with a key to its
North American congeners. Ent.
News, vol. 69, No. 1, pp. 15-17, 1958.
On a collection of centipedes
from Wisconsin (Chilopoda). Ent.

<<<Page: 96>>>

News, vol. 69, No. 4, pp. 93-99, Nat. Mus., vol. 108, No. 3397, pp. April 1958. 133-136, 1 pl., June 16, 1958.
Cuatrecasas, José. Fanerégamas co-| Drake, Carl J. The genus Belenus lombianas recientemente descritas de Distant and its allies (Hemiptera: posible interés farmacolégico. MeTingidae). Quart. Journ. Taiwan moria del 3er Symposium FarmacoMus., vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 31-35, boténica Americana, pp. 103-109, March 1957.
1957. ——. The genus Kapiriella Schouteden The Colombian species of Te(Hemiptera: Tingidae). Revue de
trorchidium. Brittonia, vol. 9, No. 2, Zoologie et de Botanique Africaines,
pp. 76-82, figs. 1-4, July 30, 1957. vol. 55, Nos. 1—2, pp. 205-218, illustr., Burseraceae. Jn R. E. Schultes, March 1957.
Plantae Austro-Americanae—X. Bot.|———. Hemiptera: Tingidae: British
Mus. Leafl. Harvard Univ., vol. 18, Museum (Natural History) Expedi-
pp. 156-158, April 1958. tion to South-West Arabia 1937-1938,
Deignan, H.G. The races of the long-| vol. 1, No. 27, pp. 415-420, January tail Prinia polycroa (Temminck), 1957. with the description of a new race A necessary correction in the from southern Annam. Bull. British} nomenclature of water-striders Ornith. Club, vol. 77, pp. 24-25, 1957. (Hemiptera). Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash. Review of McVaugh, ‘‘Edward} ington, vol. 70, p. 193, December Palmer: Plant Explorer of the Amer1957. ican West.” Atlantic Naturalist, vol. New apterous Aradidae (Hemip12, No. 4, pp. 211-212, 1957. tera). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, A new flycatcher from southvol. 70, pp. 35-42, illustr., June 1957. eastern Asia, with remarks on MusNew apterous aradids from the cicapa latirostris Raffles. Ibis, vol. East Indies (Hemiptera). Philippine
99, pp. 340-344, 1957. Journ. Sci., vol. 85, No. 3, pp. 405A trio of new birds from tropical} 412, illustr., 1957.
Asia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,|———-. New neotropical Halobatinae
vol. 70, pp. 48-44, 1957. (Hemiptera: Gerridae). Bull. Brook-
A note on some generic names| lyn Ent. Soc., vol. 52, No. 5, pp. in the Timaliinae. Bull. British 128-130, December 1957. Ornith. Club, vol. 77, p. 103, 1957. ——. New neotropical water-striders Review of ‘Ornithologists’ (Hemiptera). Proc. Biol. Soc. WashGuide” (Hutson, editor). Atlantic] ington, vol. 70, pp. 111-117, 1957. Naturalist, vol. 12, No. 6, p. 338, A new pepper tingid from New 1957. Britain. Proc. Ent. Soe. London, Review of Wing, “Natural| ser. B, vol. 26, parts 11-12, pp. 203History of Birds. A guide to Orni-| 205, illustr., 1957. thology.”’ Scientific Monthly, vol. 85,|——. A new saldid from Samoa No. 4, p. 205, 1957. (Hemiptera). Proc. Ent. Soc. QueensAn innominate laughing-thrush| land, vol. 68, No. 6, pp. 29-30, illustr., (Garrulaz) of northwestern Yunnan. July 1957. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. Notes on the genus Velia 70, pp. 189-191, 1957. (Hemiptera: Veliidae). Journ. Kansas ——. Review of Hoyt, “The Edge of} Ent. Soc., vol. 30, No. 4, pp. 138-140, April: A Biography of John Bur1957. roughs.”’ Atlantic Naturalist, vol.]|——. Quelques Tingidae de la Re13, No. 2, pp. 126-127, 1958. union (Hemiptera). Mém. Inst. Sci. ——. The systematic position of the Madagascar, sér. E, vol. 8, pp. bird genus Apalopteron. Proc. U.S.}| 399-405, illustr., 1957.

<<<Page: 97>>>

Drake, CarlJ. Tingidae de Madagascar (Hemiptera). Le Naturaliste Malgache, vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 125-131, 1957.
——. Two new species of Rhagovelias
(Hemiptera: Veliidae). Bull. So. Cal-
ifornia Acad. Sci., vol. 56, part 1,
pp. 47-49, 1957.
An undescribed apterous aradid
from the Philippines (Hemiptera).
Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 59,
No. 4, pp. 169-171, 1957.
An undescribed shore-bug from
Manitoba (Hemiptera, Salidae). Bull.
Southern California Acad. Sci., vol.
56, part 3, pp. 142-148, 1957.
and Hussey, Roland F. Notes on
some American Rhagovelia, with de-
scriptions of two new species (Hemiptera: Veliidae). Occas. Papers Mus.
Zool. Univ. Michigan, No. 580, pp.
1-6, illustr., February 1957.
and Kormileyv, Nicholas A. Con-
cerning the apterous Aradidae of
the Americas (Hemiptera). Ann. Ent.
Soc. America, vol. 51, No. 3, pp.
241-247, illustr., May 1958.
and Slater, James A. The phylogeny and systematics of the family Thaumastocoridae (Hemiptera: Heteroptera). Ann. Ent. Soc. America, vol. 50, No. 4, pp. 353-370, illustr.. July 1957.
Elder, Robert A., Jr. Lithophanic art. Keramik-Freunde der Schweiz, No. 27, pp. 18-22, 6 plates, January 1957.
Chinese paperweights. Bull. Paperweight Collector’s Assoc., vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 1-6, 5 pls., June 1958.
Evans, Clifford
Archaeology: Western Hemisphere.
Americana Ann., pp. 42—44,1958. (See under Meggers, Betty J.)
and Meggers, Betty J. Archaeo-
logical research in Eastern Ecuador.
The Yearbook—1957, Amer. Philos.
Soc., pp. 376-377, 1958.
and Meggers, Betty J. Archeol-
ogy of western and southern South
America. Jn Handbook of Latin
American Studies, No. 20, Univ.
Florida Press, pp. 25-35, 1958.
Ewers, John C. The Blackfeet, raiders on the northwestern plains. Norman, Oklahoma, vol. 49 of The Civilization of the American Indian Series, pp. XIII+348, 16 pls. 1958.
Hair pipes in Plains Indian
adornment. A study in Indian and
white ingenuity. Anthrop. Paper No.
No. 50, Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull.
164, pp. 29-85, pls. 13-37, 1957.
The National Museum’s services to the people. In The Modern Museum and the Community, Edited by Stephan F. De Borhegyi, Special Publication No. 1, Clearing House for Western Museums, pp. 17-20, Norman, Oklahoma, 1958.
Feinstein, B. R. A new gray-crowned rosy finch from Northern Alaska. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 71, pp. 11-12, 1958.
Xantus’ Murrelet (Endomychura hypoleuca scrippsi) from the State of Washington. Auk, vol. 75, pp. 90-91, 1958.
Field, William D. A redefinition of the butterfly genera Tatochila, Phulia, Piercolias and Baltia, with descriptions of related genera and subgenera. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 108, No. 3396, pp. 103-131, figs. 1-40, 1958.
Friedmann, Herbert. Aviculture and our knowledge of the parasitic weaverbirds. Avic. Mag., vol. 63, pp. 158— 160, 1957.
The rediscovery of Tangavius
armenti. Auk, vol. 74, pp. 497-498,
1958.
The status of Pteryglossus didymus. P. L. Sclater. Auk, vol. 75, pp. 938-95, 1958. (See under ander).
, Kern, J., and Rust, J. H. The domestic chick: a substitute for the honey-guide as a symbiont with cerolytic microorganisms. Amer. Nat., vol. 91, pp. 821-326, 1957.
, Miller, A. H., Griscom, L., and Moore, R. T. Distributional checklist of birds of Mexico, part 2. Pacific Coast Avif., No. 33, 436 pp., 1957.
Alex-
Wetmore,

<<<Page: 98>>>

Gazin, C. Lewis. Exploration for the remains of giant ground sloths in Panama. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. for 1956, pp. 341-354, pls. 1-8, 1957.
Activities of the Division of Vertebrate Paleontology of the U. 8. National Museum. Soc. Vert. Paleont. News Bull., No. 51, pp. 10-11, 1957; No. 53, pp. 11-12, 1958.
Goins, Alvin, and Griffenhagen, George B. Psychological studies of museum visitors and exhibits at the U. S. National Museum. The Museologist, No. 64, pp. 1-6, September 1957.
Griffenhagen, George B. American pharmacy’s historical collections. Amer. Inst. of the Hist. of Pharm., Madison, Wis., pp. 1-8, 1 illustr., 1957.
—. Pharmaceutical glassware. Spinning Wheel, vol. 13, pp. 24-25, figs. 8, October 1957.
Estas organizaciones representan
la farmacia en las Americas. El
Farmaceutico, voi. 33, pp. 36-37,
40-43, 68, 70, 72, figs. 44. November
1957; also Pharmacy International,
vol. 11, pp. 20-25, 36, November
1957.
The pharmacy in history. Drug Progress, vol. 22, pp. 8-10, March 1958; pp. 12, 20, April 1958.
The show globe—a symbol of
pharmacy. Journ. Amer. Pharma-
ceut. Assoc. (Practical Pharmacy
ed.), vol. 19, pp. 2388-235, figs. 5,
April 1958.
(See under Goins, Alvin, and
Young, James Harvey.)
and Sonnedecker, Glenn. A history of sugar coated pills and tablets. Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical Pharmacy ed.), vol. 18, pp. 486-488, 553-555, figs. ‘55, August-September 1957. Also reprinted in El Farmaceutico and Pharmacy International, May—June 1958.
Hale, Mason E., Jr. The identity of Parmelia hypotropoides. The Bryologist, vol. 60, No. 4, pp. 344-347, figs. 1, 2, December 1957.
Studies on the chemistry and
distribution of North American lichens (10-13). The Bryologist, vol. 61, No. 1, pp. 81-85, figs. 1-8, March 1958.
Handley, Charles O., Jr. First record of the occurrence of the long-legged bat (Macrophyllum) in Honduras and Venezuela. Journ. Mammalogy, vol. 38, No. 3, pp. 406-407, August 23, 1957.
Henderson, Edward P., and Furcron, A. S. Meteorites in Georgia. Part 2, Description of falls. Georgia Mineral Newsletter, Georgia Geol. Surv., vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 113-142, 1957.
and Perry, Stuart H. Studies of seven siderites. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 107, No. 3388, pp. 339403, January 31, 1958.
Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. Observaciones acerca de las especies del genero Entocythere (Crustaceos, Ostracodos) de Cuba. Anales Inst. Biol., Mexico, vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 431-436, 8 figs., September 30, 1957.
Howell, Edgar M. Partisan warfare. Encyclopaedia Britannica. 16th Edition.
Hall of military history: The Smithsonian Institution preserves the army’s past. Army Inf. Dig., pp. 35-40, July 1958.
Officer’s coat, period of the Revolution. Journ. Comp. Mil. Coll. & Hist., pp. 62-63, Fall 1958.
Hoyme, Lucile E. Sex differences in the circumauricular area of the human ilium. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., new ser., vol. 15, No. 3, p. 434, September 1957. (Abstract)
The earliest use of indices for sexing pelves. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., new ser., vol. 15, No. 4, pp. 537-546, December 1957.
Kanazawa, Robert H. A new species of eel, Coloconger meadi, and new records for the ateleopid fish, [jimaza antellarum H. Rivero, both from the Gulf of Mexico. Copeia No. 3, pp. 234-235, fig. 1, 1957.
Kellogg, Remington. Two additional Miocene porpoises from the Calvert Cliffs, Maryland. (I. Rediscovery of

<<<Page: 99>>>

Phocageneus venustus Leidy. II. An
apparently unrecognized odontocete
in the Calvert Miocene of Maryland.)
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 107, No.
3387, pp. 279-337, 30 pls., December
9, 1957.
and Whitmore, Frank C. Marine mammals. Ecology. Jn Hedgpeth, Joel W., editor, Treatise on marine ecology and paleoecology. Geol. Soc. Amer., Mem. 67, vol. 1, pp. 12231225, December 30, 1957.
Kier, Porter M. A new Upper Carboniferous echinoid from Texas. Geol. Mag., vol. 94, No. 4, pp. 326-328, 1957.
Tertiary Echinoidea from British Somaliland. Journ. Paleont., vol. 31, No. 5, pp. 839-902, pls. 103-107, 1958.
Leonard, Emery C. The Acanthaceae of Colombia, III. Contr. U. 8. Nat. Herb., vol. 31, No. 3, pp. 323-781, figs. 119-274, February 4, 1958.
Loeblich, A. R., Jr. (see under Bolli, H.)
Loeblich, A. R., Jr., and Tappan, H. Planktonic Foraminifera of Paleocene and early Eocene age from the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains. U. 8. Nat. Mus. Bull. 215, pp. 173-198, pls. 40-64, 1957.
and Tappan, H. Hleven new gen-
era of Foraminifera. U.S. Nat. Mus.
Bull. 215, pp. 223-232, pls. 72, 73,
1957.
and Tappan, H. Correlation of
the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plain
Paleocene and Lower Eocene forma-
tions by means of planktonic Fora-
minifera. Journ. Paleont., vol. 31,
No. 6, pp. 1109-1137, 1957.
and Tappan, H. Woodringia, a
new foraminiferal genus (Hetero-
helicidae) from the Paleocene of
Alabama. Journ. Washington Acad.
Sci., vol. 47, No. 2, pp. 39-40, 1957.
and Tappan, H. The Foraminiferal genus Cruciloculina d’Orbigny, 1839. U. 8S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 215, pp. 233-235, pl. 74, 1957.
Meggers, Betty J. Environment and culture in the Amazon Basin: An appraisal of the theory of environ-
mental determinism. Jn Studies in Human Ecology, Social Science Monographs, III. Pan American Union, Washington, pp. 71-113, 1957.
(See under Evans, Clifford.) and Evans, Clifford. Archeological investigations at the mouth of the Amazon. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 167, pp. xxviii+664, 206 figs., 112 pls., 1957.
Metcalf, George. Suggestions for recording sites and cataloguing collections. Kansas Anthrop. Assoc. Newsletter, vol. 3, ° No: 3, pp. 92-5, November 1957.
Moore, J. Percy. Hirudinea. Jn British-Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition Reports, ser. B, vol. 6, part 6, pp. 99-105, 2 figs., July 1957.
Morrison, Joseph P. E. LEllobiid and other ecology in Florida. Nautilus, vol. 71, No. 4, pp. 118-124, April 1958.
Morton, C. V. Some West Indian Gesneriaceae. Brittonia, vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 18-24, April 27, 1957.
A further note on Scaevola. Field and Lab., vol. 25, Nos. 2-3, p. 79, April—July 1957.
——. Observations on cultivated ferns, II. The proper generic name of the holly fern. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 47, No. 2, pp. 52-55, June 18, 1957.
——. Observations on cultivated ferns, III. The species of Microlepza. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 47, No. 3, pp. 102-108, October 16, 1957.
Ferns of the Galapagos Islands.
Leaflets of western botany, vol. 8,
No. 1, pp. 188-195, pls. 3, 4, December
1957.
The fern genus Anopteris. Bull. Jard. Bot. Bruxelles, vol. 27, fascicle 4, pp. 579-584, December 31, 1957. Observations on cultivated ferns, V. The species and forms of Nephrolepis. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 48, No. 1, pp. 18-27, April 1958.
and Godfrey, R. K. Diplaziwm japonicum naturalized in Florida.

<<<Page: 100>>>

Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 48, No. 1,
pp. 28-30, April 1958.
and Lotschert, Wilhelm. Beitrag zur Pteridophyten-Flora von Mittelamerika. Neue Pteridophyten fur El Salvador II. Senckenbergiana Biologica, vol. 39, No. 1-2, pp. 127-131, March 31, 1958.
Muesebeck, C.F. W. Four new species of Hubadizon Nees from Western
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48,
No. 4, pp. 113, 114, 1958.
The pelecypod Euloxa: Observations on new localities. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 5, pp. 153-157, 1958.
Packard, Robert L. The taxonomic status of Peromyscus allex Osgood. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 71, pp. 17-20, April 11, 1958.
United States (Hymenoptera: Braco-| Paradiso, John L. Notes on mammals
nidae). Bull. Brooklyn Ent. Soc.,
vol. 52, No. 2, pp. 51-56, April 1957.
New neotropical wasps of the
family Braconidae (Hymenoptera) in
the U. 8S. National Museum. Proc.
U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 107, No. 3389,
pp. 405-461, illustr., January 1958.
and Shenefelt, R. D. Ashmead’s Meteoridae (Hymenoptera: Braconidae). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 59, No. 3, pp. 129-134, illustr., June 1957.
Multhauf, Robert P. The beginning of mineralogical chemistry. Isis, vol. 49, pt. 1, No. 155, pp. 50-53, March 1958.
Newman, Marshall T. Skeletal material, in The Ormond Beach mound, east central Florida. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 164, pp. 19-20, 1957.
Indian skeletal material from
the Berrian’s Island cists (45-BN.38),
Lower McNary Reservoir, Washing-
ton. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 166,
Appendix 1, pp. 205-224, 1957.
Growth and skeletal maturation
in malnourished Indian boys from the
Peruvian Sierra. Amer. Journ. Phys.
Anthrop., new ser., vol. 15, No. 3, p.
431, September 1957. (Abstract with
Carlos Collazos Ch.).
The physique of the Seneca
Indians of Western New York State.
Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 47,
No. 11, pp. 857-362, November 1957.
Man and the heights. Nat. Hist., vol. 67, No. 1, pp: 9-19, January 1958.
Nicol, David. A survey of inequivalve pelecypods. Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 2, pp. 56-62, 1958.
Taxonomy versus stratigraphy.
of Calvert County, Maryland. Maryland Tidewater News, vol. 14, No. 2, pp. 6-7, April 1958.
Perry, Stuart H. (See under Henderson Hage),
Peterson, Mendel L. Coins of historic persons, Constantine, called the Great. Numismatic Scrapbook Mag., pp. 1462-1463, August 1957.
Coins of historic persons, Justin-
ian the Great. Numismatic Scrap-
book Mag., pp. 1858-1859, Septem-
ber 1957.
Coins of historic persons, William
the Conqueror. Numismatic Scrap-
book Mag., pp. 1901-1902, October
1957.
Coins of historic persons, Rich-
ard the Lion Hearted. Numismatic
Scrapbook Mag., pp. 2109-2110,
November 1957.
The Hogge money of Bermuda.
Numismatic Scrapbook Mag., pp.
2353-2358, 4 pls., December 1957.
. Coins of historic persons, Isabella
the Catholic. Numismatic Scrap-
book Mag., pp. 202-203, January
1958.
Coins of historic persons, Henry Tudor. Numismatic Scrapbook Mag., pp. 447-449, 1 pl., February 1958. Coins of historic persons, Gustavus II Adolphus. Numismatic Scrapbook Mag., pp. 479-481, 1 pl., March 1958.
Coins of historic persons, Francis of Valois. Numismatic Scrapbook Mag., pp. 707-708, April 1958. Historic and scientific displays in naval ships and stations. Dep. of the Navy, 15 pp., October 1957.
The eagle as a symbol. Wash-

<<<Page: 101>>>

ington Sunday Star Mag., June 29,
1958.
Turks and Caicos Islands Currency. The Numismatist, pp. 268274, 4 pls., March 1958.
Rawls, John L. The spar torpedo in the War Between the States. Journ. Comp. Mil. Coll. & Hist., vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 70-72, Fall 1957.
Reeside, J. B., Jr. Nonmarine pelecypod (Nipponaia asinaria) from the Lower Cretaceous of Colorado. Journ. Paleont., vol. 31, pp. 651-653, 2 figs., 1957.
Rudd, Velva E. A revision of the genus Chaetocalyx. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb., vol. 32, No. 3, pp. 207—245, figs. 1-13, February 6, 1958.
Schultz, Leonard P. The frogfishes of
the family Antennariidae. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 107, No. 3383, pp. 47-105, figs. 1-8, pls. 1-14,
November 1, 1957.
Setzer, Henry W. The hedgehogs and shrews (Insectivora) of Egypt. Journ. Egyptian Public Health Assoc., vol. 32, No. 1, pp. 1-17, March 28, 1957.
A review of Libyan mammals.
Journ. Egyptian Public Health Assoc.,
vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 41-82, June 11,
1957.
The jerboas of Egypt. Journ. Egyptian Public Health Assoc., vol. 32, No. 6, pp. 265-271, October 23, 1957.
Smith, Lyman B. Bromeliaceae. In Joaio Angely, Catdlogo e estatistica dos géneros boténicos fanerogAmicos. Instituto Paranaense de Botanica, No. 2, pp. 5-7, 1956.
Bromeliad notes from Brazil.
Bromel. Soc. Notes, vol. 7, No. 3,
pp. 44-46, 1 fig., May-June 1957.
The Machris Brazilian Expedi-
tion. Botany: Phanerogamae, Bro-
meliaceae and other smaller families.
Contr. Sci. Los Angeles Co. Mus.,
No. 17, pp. 1-8, figs. 1-5, December
23, 1957.
The Bromeliaceae of Colombia.
Contr. U. S. Nat. Herb., vol. 33, pp. 1-311, figs. 1-88, December 24, 1957.
Dr. Macedo’s new Bromelia from
Goids, Brazil. Bromel. Soe. Bull.,
vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 12, 13, 2 figs., Janu-
ary—February 1958.
Notes on Bromeliaceae, IX.
Phytologia, vol. 6, No. 4, pp. 193-196,
pl. 1, March 1958.
and Schubert, Bernice G. Begoniaceae. In Robert E. Woodson, Jr., Robert W. Schery, and collaborators, Flora of Panama, Part VII, Fascicle 1 (Passifloraceae to Cactaceae). Ann. Missouri Bot. Gard., vol. 45, No. 1, pp. 41-67, figs. 11-20, February 1958.
Snodgrass, Robert Evans. A revised interpretation of the external reproductive organs of male _ insects. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 135, No. 6, 60 pp., illustr., December 1957.
Snyder, Thomas E. Authority cites northern spread of termites abroad. Pest Control, vol. 25, No. 10, p. 70, October 1957.
Death thinning out ranks of
world’s foremost isopterists. Pest
Control, vol. 25, No. 6, pp. 42-44,
June 1957.
Termites: Fifth Annual California Polytechnical Pest Control Conference, California State Polytech. College, Pomona, California, pp. 1-16, December 1957.
Solecki, Ralph S. Shanidar Cave. Scientific Amer., vol. 197, No. 5, pp. 58-64, November 1957.
Two Neanderthal skeletons from
Shanidar Cave. Sumer, vol. 13,
Nos. 1 and 2, pp. 59-60, 1957.
The 1956 season at Shanidar.
Sumer, vol. 13, Nos. 1 and 2, pp.
165-171, 1957.
Archaeology of the
Eastern
Hemisphere. Americana Annual, pp. 44-45, 1958. Stevenson, John A. Cornelius Lott
Shear. Mycologia, vol. 49, pp. 283297, April 1957.

<<<Page: 102>>>

Stevenson, John A. Cornelius Lott|Tappan, H. New Cretaceous index Shear. Phytopathology, vol. 47, pp. Foraminifera from northern Alaska’ 321, 322, June 1957. U. 8. Nat. Mus. Bull. 215, pp. 201-
and Kimmey, James W. A forest| 222, pls. 65-71, 1957.
disease survey of Alaska. Plant Dis.|——(See under Bolli, H.)
Rep. Suppl., No. 247, pp. 7-98, (See under Loeblich, A. R., Jr.) September 1957. Vaughn, Peter P. A pelycosaur with
and Litzenberger, S. C. A presubsphenoidal teeth from the lower Iininoms Es) a? Miconaemmn lem Permian of Oklahoma. Journ. Wash-
diseases. Plant Dis. Rep. Suppl., Gees fone Sci., vol. 48, No. 2, No. 243, pp. 3-19, June 1957. pp. 44-47, fig. 1, 1958.
: ; i Activities of the division of Stewart, T. D. Distortion of the pubic vertebrate paleontology of the U. §. symphyseal surface in females and its
aie BAN dete rani stian, nuAmee National Museum. Soc. Vert. Palee on , i
ont. Ne Bull., No. 52 . 14— Journ. Phys. Anthrop., new ser., I et cece uae gt ah Feet
1958. vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 9-18, March 1957.
American neanderthaloids. Quart. Rev. Biol., vol. 32, No. 4, pp. 364-369, December 1957.
Rate of development of vertebral hypertrophic arthritis and its utility in age estimation. Amer. Journ. Phys. Anthrop., vol. 15, No. 3, p. 433, September 1957. (Abstract). Physical anthropology. Handbook of Latin American Studies. No. 20 (1956), Univ. Florida Press, pp. 52-57, 1958.
. A unique carved bone object from Delaware. Bull. Delaware State Mus., No. 1, pp. 1-18, 1958.
and McKern, Thomas W. Skeletal age changes in young American males. Quartermaster Res. and Development Center, Environmental Protection Research Div., Natick, Massachusetts, Technical Report. EP-45, viii + 179 pp., May 1957.
Swallen, Jason R. The Machris Brazilian Expedition. Botany: Gramineae. Contr. Sci. Los Angeles County Mus., No. 22, pp. 1-11, figs. 1-5, April 21, 1958.
Switzer, George. Thirty-second annual report on the diamond industry, 1956. Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, vol. 127, 15 pp., 1957.
——. The many-sided diamond. Nat. Geogr. Mag., vol. 113, pp. 568-586, 1958.
479802—58——_-7
A specimen of the captorhinid reptile Captorhinikos chozaensis Olson, 1954, from the Hennessey formation, lower Permian of Oklahoma. Journ. Geol., vol. 66, No. 3, pp. 327-332, 1958.
Walker, Egbert H. Dr. Elmer D. Merrill, 1876-1956. Pacific Sci., vol. 11, pp. 135-136, January 1957.
A survey of the vegetation of
southeastern Asia: The Indo-Chinese
province of the Pacific basin. Proc.
8th Pacific Sci. Congr., vol. 4, pp. 99-
114, figs. 1-5, 1957.
A sketch of the vegetation and
plants of the southern Ryukyu
Islands. Proc. 8th Pacific Sci. Coner.,
vol. 4, pp. 397-406, 1957.
——. Adventuring in Japanese botany (Summary). Bot. Mag. Tokyo, vol. 70, Nos. 833, 834, pp. 426-427, November-—December 1957.
Washburn, Wilcomb E. The governor and the rebel: a history of Bacon’s Rebellion in Virginia. Univ. North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, pp. xix + 248, 2 maps, illustr., 1958.
——. Governor Berkeley and King Philip’s War. New England Quart., vol. 30, No. 3, pp. 363-377, 1957.
Sir William Berkeley, ‘‘A history of our miseries.’’ William and Mary Quarterly, 3d ser., vol. 14, No. 3, pp. 403-414, 1957.
——. Nathaniel Bacon—reformer or rebel? A thumbnail essay in his-

<<<Page: 103>>>

toriography. Virginia Cavalcade, vol. | Wetmore, Alexander.
7, No. 3, pp. 38-40, 1957.
Watkins, C. Malcolm. Lighting devices. In Concise encyclopedia of American antiques, vol. 1, pp. 215-223, pls. 157—160, N. Y., Hawthorn Books, Inc., 1958.
The three-initial cipher: exceptions to the rule. Antiques, vol. 73, No. 6, pp. 564-565, June 1958.
Wedel, Waldo R. Observations on some nineteenth century pottery vessels from the Upper Missouri. Antrop. Papers, No. 51, Bur. Amer. Hthnol. Bull. 164, pp. 87-114, 1957.
The central North American grassland: Man made or natural? In Studies in Human Ecology, Social Science Monographs, III, Washington, Pan American Union, pp. 39-69, 1957.
Wetmore, Alexander. The birds of Isla Coiba, Panama. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 134, 105 pp., 1957.
A fossil rail from the Pliocene of Arizona. Condor, vol. 59, pp. 267268, 1957.
Species limitation in certain groups of the swift genus Chaetura. Auk, vol. 74, pp. 383-385, 1957.
An extension in range of the
house sparrow, Passer domesticus. Ostrich, vol. 28, pp. 239-240, 1957.
Additional subspecies of birds from Colombia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 71, pp. 1-4, 1958.
The Brissonian name for the snipe. Ibis, vol. 100, pp. 125-127,
1958.
The standing of the natural sciences in an atomic age. Special Publ. 13, Chicago Acad. Sci., pp. 13-23, 1958.
——, Friedmann, Herbert, et al. The A. O. U. Check-list of North American birds, 5th ed., 691 pp., 1957.
Wilson, Mildred S. Redescription of Teredicola typica C. B. Wilson (Crustacea: Copepoda). Pacific Sci. vol. 11, pp. 265-274, 19 figs., 1957.
North American harpacticoid
copepods. 4. Diagnoses of new
species of fresh-water Canthocamptidae and Cletodidae (genus Huwuntemannia). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 71, pp. 43-48, May 9, 1958.
North American harpacticoid copepods. 5. The status of Aitheyella americana (Herrick) and the correct name for the subgenus Brehmiella. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 71, pp. 49-52, May 9, 1958.
Young, James Harvey, and Griffenhagen, George B. Old English patent medicines in America. Chemist and Druggist, vol. 167, pp. 714=722, figs. 22, June 29, 1957.

<<<Page: 104>>>

Donors to the National Collections
(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance with law.)
Aaron and Lillie Straus Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Md.: 148 Chinese, Japanese, and Hindu ivory carvings, Chinese snuff bottles, and Eskimo tusk carving; 50 ceramic and glass figures, pitchers, bowls, and lusters from Hurope and the United States; 18 historical prints, drawings, etchings, and books; and 1 American scrimshaw carving (218148).
Abbot, Elinor. (See Abbot, Marion)
Abbot, Marion and Elinor, Washington, D. C.: Linen fire bag, ca. 1799, and 12 early 19th-century billheads (219697).
Abbott, Dr. Donald P. (See Martin, Dr. Edgar J.)
Abbott, J. M., New Alexandria, Va.: Gambell’s sparrow in the flesh (218416).
Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Ill.: (Through Thomas A. Craig) Dayalets-M in apothecary jar (218457).
Abbott, Dr. R. Tucker. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Abel, Mildred E., Arlington, Va.:
Pair of gold-framed spectacles with case.
(215859). Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through Dr. R. Tucker Abbott) 3,064 mollusks, including 9 paratypes, mainly from the Pacific (218372, exchange); (through Dr. F. A. Aldrich) 1,054 miscellaneous marine invertebrates (219078); (through Dr. James Bohlke) fish from the Bahamas (216361, exchange); (through Dr. C. W. Hart, Jr.) 5 type specimens of ostracods from Florida (219425); (through J. A. G. Rehn) 5 grasshoppers from South America and Australia (216427); (through Dr. Selwyn S. Roback) paratype fly from North America (217917).
Academy of Sciences of Byelorussia, Minsk, U. 8. 8. R.: (Through Dr. S8. Ryng) 2 specimens of the Hressk meteorite from Minsk (211477, exchange).
Academy of Sciences of the U.S. S.R., Moscow, U.S.S. R.: (Through Dr. E. L. Krinoy) 6 meteorites (215509, exchange). Zoological Institute: (Through Academician HE. N. Pavlovsky) 22 ticks from Russia (214312, exchange). Komarov Botanical Institute: (Through Prof. V. P. Saviez) 40 lichens (215845, exchange).
Adams, Phillip A., Cambridge, Mass.: 2 lacewings from Northern India (217258).
Agencia Filatelica Dominicana. Dominican Republic).
Agricultural and Mechanicai College of Texas, College Station, Tex.: (Through Prof. H. J. Reinhard) 6 tachinid flies, paratypes, from Mexico (216415, exchange).
Agricultural Research Station, Rehoyot, Israel: (Through Margalith Galun) 7 lichens (217018, exchange). »
Agriculture, U. S. Department of, National Science Foundation, and Casey Fund: 97,830 wood-boring beetles of world-wide distribution, including 611 holotypes and 1,415 paratypes and cotypes, of the Friedrich F. Tippman collection (213122).
Agriculture, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: Agricultural Research Service: 271 phanerogams, 25 miscellaneous grasses (216081, 216381, 216465); 384 land snails from Turkey, Greece, France, Spain, Morocco, Bermuda Islands, Florida, and Louisiana (219248); (through Dr. W. H. Anderson) 13 land snails from Palmyra Island and the Hawaiian Islands (215402); (through
(See

<<<Page: 105>>>

Dr. G. E. Bohart) 2,470 miscellaneous insects from Utah (220116); (through Dr. Frederick J. Hermann) 2 ferns from Washington, D. C. (215372) ; 70 phanerogams from the United States and Canada (217655); (through Dr. Paul W. Oman) 10 brackish, fresh-water, and land snails from California and Italy (215126); 147 land snails from Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, Maryland, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Greece, Guatemala, Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Palau Islands, Palmyra Islands, Saudi Arabia, Trinidad, and Tripoli 215617, 215732, 215961, 216122, 216243, 216466, 216763, 216814, 216961, 217066, 217332, 217541, 217602, 218578); freshwater snail from Island of Bali, Indonesia (215906); 4 land mollusks from the Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, and Mexico (217205); 11 mollusks and hermit crab from Maryland, France and Portuguese West Africa (217944); 7 land shells from Italy, French Morocco, and the Canal Zone (218772); 63,239 miscellaneous insects of world-wide localities (220038) ; (through Dr. Curtis Sabrosky) 15 moths from Maryland (216072).
Aitken, Dr. Thomas H. G., Port-ofSpain, Trinidad: 5 plants from Trinidad (217271). (See also Trinidad Regional Virus Laboratory)
Akasaka, Hideo, New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Dorothy E. Bliss) 2 scyllarids from the Gulf of Siam (218755).
Alabama, University of, University, Ala.: 7 grasses from Alabama (216238).
al Asil, Dr. Naji. (See Directorate General of Antiquities)
Alaska, University of, College, Alaska: (Through Prof. Brina Kessel) 13 skins and 18 skeletons of birds, from Alaska (216562).
Albert, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest, San Francisco, Calif.: 117 marine, land, and fresh-water mollusks, and 1 coral from Okinawa (215958, 219075).
Alberta, University of, Edmonton, Canada: (Through Dr. George E. Ball) 25 beetles from Canada (216429).
Aldrich, Dr. F. A. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Allan, Greever. (See Post Office Department)
Allard, Howard F., Washington, D. C.: Monkey, 6 birds from Peru (215355).
Allen, Dr. Ezra. (See Stetson University)
Allen, Frederick Morse, Coral Gables, Fla.: (Through James M. Thomson, Jr.) patent model of Allen dredge, ca. 1850 (2161038).
Allen, H. W., Moorestown, N. J.: 100 weevils from New Jersey (216419).
Allen, Dr. Theodore E. (See Arabian American Oil Company)
Allred, Dr. Donald, Provo, Utah: 4 slides of mites from Utah (217640).
Alter, Chris E., Goodland, Ind.: (Through Dr. R. C. Gutschick) 10 cephalopods from the Mississippian Rockford limestone, Indiana (217267).
Althin, Dr. Torsten. (See L. M. Ericsson Telephone Co.)
Amann, Jacque Lynne A., Washington, D. C.: (Through Mrs. Jose Amann) 15 poisoned path splinters of split bamboo and palm wood from Philippine Islands (217244).
Amann, Mrs. Lynne A. Amann)
American Cyanamid Co., New York, N. Y.: Panel exhibit of colored transparencies entitled ‘Pictorial Highlights in the History of Surgery” (217272); 3 apothecary jars containing Filibon, Gevral and Gevral T (218453).
American Dental Association, Chicago, Ill.: Exhibit entitled ‘““The Role of the Dentist in Maintaining Health” (219502).
American Museum of Natural History, New York, N. Y.: 2 shrimps collected in Shinnecock Bay, Long Island (216820); (through Dr. Libbie Hyman) 6 flatworms including types of 3 new species (216516); (through Dr. Frederick Pough) rhodochrosite from Alma, Park Co., Colo., and opal from Australia (218427, exchange); (through Dr. Vladimir Walters) 2 paratypes of toadfish from the Bahamas (218859, exchange).
American National Red Cross, Washington, D. C.: 2 exhibits entitled “Blood and Its Components” and “The Ameri-
Jose. (See Jacque

<<<Page: 106>>>

can Red Cross Comes in Disaster and Emergency” (219500).
American Nurses’ Association, Inc., New York, N. Y.: Exhibit entitled ‘‘The Registered Nurse is Health’s Ally” (219501).
American Pharmaceutical Association, Washington, D. C.: Exhibit entitled ‘‘Pharmacists Working for Better Community Health” (219503).
American Society of Mechanical Engineers, New York, N. Y.: (Through Frank Philippbar) 2 ring and plug gages (218877).
Amos, Dr. Arturo J. Geolégico)
Anderson, Mrs. Ralph, Menominee,
(See Servicio
Mich.: Wolf-spider from Michigan (216123).
Anderson, Roger. (See Augustana College)
Anderson, Dr. W. H. (See Agriculture, U. S. Department of)
Anderson, W. W. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Appel, Dr. and Mrs. Bernard, Lynn, Mass.: Busts of Louis Pasteur, Sir William Osler, Wilhelm Conrad Rontgen (217273).
Arabian American Oil Co., New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Theodore HE. Allen) snake and burrowing lizard from Dhahran, Saudi Arabia (211201).
Archer, Mrs. Perry, Staunton, Va.: Wedding dress, veil, and slippers, ca. 1929, and 2 pictures of wedding (219144)
Archer, Dr. W. Harry, Pittsburgh, Pa.: 15 hypodermic syringes, varying dates and styles, with attachments, and cases for 5 of them (216558); 75 items of anesthesia apparatus, including gasoxygen machines, early inhalers, syringes and anesthetics (218892).
Arctic Institute of North America, Washington, D. C.: (Through Dr. Edward B. Reed) 934 marine invertebrates (213166).
Aristeguieta, Dr. Leandro. stituto Botanico)
Arkansas, University of, Fayetteville, Ark.: (Through Prof. Davis P. Richardson) slice of the Fayetteville, Ark., meteorite (218784, exchange).
(See In-
Arkansas State Teachers College, Conway, Ark.: 31 lichens from Arkansas (217286).
Armstrong Technical High School, Washington, D. C.: (Through Bennetta C. Washington) model of Gaskill stem pumping engine, 1879 (220003).
Arnaud, Paul H., Jr. (See Defense, U. S. Department of)
Arndt, Dr. C. H., Clemson, S. C.: Aboriginal stone celt from Haiti (216532).
Arnold, Edgar L., Jr. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the)
Arnold, Paul, Binghamton, N. Y.: Phanerogam from Panama (220125).
Aron, William. (See Washington, University of)
Arrouet, Marcel D., New York, N. Y.: (Through Captain W. G. Ross) pyrolusite from Ghana (219477).
ARS Polonas. (See Poland, Government of)
Artia, Ltd. Government of)
Asahina, Prof. Y., Tokyo, Japan: 8 lichens from Formosa (217206).
Ashcroft, Harold E., Washington, D. C.: Miniature straight razor (217392).
Atkinson, Mrs. Lucille E., Arlington, Va.: Blue wool Yeomanette cape, identification card and ‘“‘dog tag’ of World War I (218471).
Attwood, S. S. (See Michigan, University of)
Augustana College, Sioux Falls, S. Dak.: (Through Roger Anderson) 104 lichens from Minnesota (218759).
Australia, Government of: Australian Museum: (Through Dr. Donald F. MeMichael) 2 mollusks from Australia (217853, exchange); (through D. K. McAlpine) 2 flies from Australia (219488). Botanic Gardens: 155 phanerogams, 24 ferns, grass from Australia and New Caledonia (215774, 217397, 217408, exchange); 80 phanerogams, 19 grasses, 50 ferns, 4 cryptogams (215842, 220027, exchange). Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization: 456 phanerogams, 60 grasses, 81 ferns, cryptogam, collected
(See Czechoslovakia,

<<<Page: 107>>>

in New Guinea (215367, 217407, exchange).
Axelrod, Herbert, Jersey City, N. J.: 2 fishes from Belgian Congo (214824); 782 fishes, 1 shrimp, 5 tadpoles collected by donor on trip to Africa (215119); 97 aquarium fishes (216717).
Bacesco, Dr. M. (See Muzeul National de Istorie Natural ‘‘Grigore Antipa’’)
Bailey, Lt. Col. Ellswerth H. Bailey, Theodore L.)
Bailey, Theedore L., New York, N. Y.: (Through Lt. Col. Ellsworth H. Bailey) uniform and accessories, Squadron ‘“‘A” New York Militia, 1904 (219311).
Baird, J., Triangle, Va.: Bat from Virginia (219682).
Baisas, Dr. F. E., Manila, Republic of Philippines: 15 mosquitoes, including 3 holotypes, 1 allotype, and 11 paratypes, from the Philippines (219485).
Baker, Mrs. Beatrice E. Wilson, Washington, D. C.: 16 items of costumes and accessories (219142); stock certificate, Hudson Valley Canning Co., 1901, and German 1,000 mark bank note, 1919 (219570).
Baker, Prof., Frances H., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.: 131 models in pure mathematics, mathematical physics, projective and differential geometry, and Riemann surfaces, made by donor’s
(See
father, Prof. RR. P: Baker, at the University of Iowa, ca. 1915-1935 (211257). (Correction of entry in 1957 Annual Report)
Baker, James, Baker, Oreg.: 212 small moths from Oregon (216864, exchange).
Baldwin, Starrs. Motor Car Company)
Baldwin, Wayne J. University of)
Ball, Dr. Carleton’ R., Washington, D. C.: 7 plants from Chenango County, N. Y. (216382).
Ball, Dr. George’ E. (See Alberta, University of)
Ball, Leland C., Cincinnati, Ohio: Phelps and Gurley vernier transit compass and tripod (170660).
(See Diamond T.
(See California,
Baitars, Eduards, Baltimore, Md.: 28 phanerogams, 2 grasses from Maryland (219198).
Bandy, Dr. Mark C., Wickenburg, Ariz.: 30 uranium ores from Mi Vida
‘Mine near Moab, Utah (219481).
Banner, Dr. A. H. Honolulu, T. H.: (Through Charlotte Holmquist) 4 mysids, type specimens from Friday Harbor, Wash. (218563). (See also Hawaii, University of)
Barbehenn, Kyle R. Research Council)
Barber, lola Wilsey, Berkeley, Calif.: 35 fresh-water snails from Merced County, Calif. (215907).
Barbosa, Dr. Frederico Simoes. (See Centro de Pesquisas Aggeu Magalhdes)
Barger, John E. (See Madden, Lloyd C.)
Barnard, Dr. J. Laurens, Los Angeles, Calif.: 603 amphipods (217029).
Barnes, Col. Theodore, Washington, D. C.: Historical items relating to the Rutherford B. Hayes administration, President and Mrs. Benjamin Harrison and President Abraham Lincoln (215968); 3 oyster plates purchased for use at White House during administration of President Rutherford B. Hayes (216395).
Barnett, Major Herbert C. Defense, U. 8. Department of)
Barth, Dr. Edvard K. (See Zoologisk Museum)
Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 36 phanerogams, 11 grasses, 2 ferns from West Virginia (217796).
Bartsch, Dr. Paul, Lebanon, Va.: Cedar waxwing (218415).
Batten, Dr. Roger. (See Wisconsin, University of)
Bauer, George, Rochester, N. Y.: 16’ x 11’ flag which flew over the Confederate capital; keys to the original Appomattox courthouse and the Appomattox jail (219705).
Bayer, Dr. Frederick M. Vanderbilt Foundation)
Bearse, Ramon C., Arlington, Va.: Brass-framed spectacles with case (217775); Elgin watch (218878).
(See National
(See
(See George

<<<Page: 108>>>

Beck, Mrs. Elisabeth C. State Board of Health)
Beck Cardiovascular Research Laboratory. (See Wolfe, Kenneth B.)
Becking, Rudy W. (See Pennsylvania State University)
Beebe, Dr. William, New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Giles W. Mead) 135 fishes, including 73 holotypes and 62 paratypes, from the western Atlantic (215651).
Beetle, Dorothy, Laramie, Wyo.: 49 land and fresh-water mollusks from Wyoming (219076).
Behier, Jean, Tananarive, Madagasear: (Through Mary Mrose) 4 chrysoberyl crystals from Ambatosocatra, Madagascar (215392).
Beister, Mrs. Rae V. U. 8. Department of)
Belgian Congo Museum, Tervuren, Belgium: (Through Dr. Henri Schouteden) 2 lace bugs from the Belgian Congo and Madagascar (215685, exchange).
Belknap, Van F., Detroit, Columbus clock (217939).
Bell, J. M. (See Post Office Department)
Bellairs Research Institute of McGill University, St. James, Barbados: (Through Dr. John B. Lewis) 46 marine invertebrates (218908).
Benesh, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn.: 35 beetles from Arizona (218419).
Bennison, Allan P. (See Sinclair Oil and Gas Company)
Benoit, Dr. P. L. G. Royal de Congo Belge)
Benson, Clifford R., Birmingham, Mich.: 4 plate blocks of 4-cent Smithsonian Institution Centennial stamps of 1946 (216124).
Bequaert, Dr. Joseph C. fense, U. 8. Department of)
Berkebile, Donald H., Takoma Park, Md.: Handmade broad axe and radio loudspeaker (218875, 220007).
Bermuda Biological Station, St. George’s West, Bermuda: (Through Dr. W. H. Sutcliffe, Jr.) spiny lobster cast from Bermuda (217784).
(See Florida
(See Treasury,
Mich.:
(See Musée
(See De-
Bermuda Department of Agriculture, Paget Hast, Bermuda: (Through David B. Wingate) 9 lizards from Bermuda (219787).
Berry, Paul A., San Salvador, El Salvador: 2,136 leafhoppers, 500 flies, and 50 beetles from Central America (217247) ; 90 miscellaneous insects from Campo Grande, Brazil (219969).
Berry, Dr. S. Siillman, Redlands, Calif.: 79 marine mollusks, 46 paratypes, from California, Mexico and Peru (212161, 219877).
Betanceurt, Dr. Mario Aquiles. Museo Ignacio Agramonte)
Bettis, Mrs. Alice Pilling, Washington, D. C.: Unusual memorial hair brooch (218888).
Bideaux, Richard, Tucson, Ariz.: Scheelite from Cochise County, Ariz. (218430, exchange).
Bieri, Dr. Robert, Yellow Springs, Ohio: 52 chaetognath worms (216964) ; 629 marine invertebrates and 3 lots of parasitic trematodes (217307). (See also Columbia University)
Biezanko, Dr. C. M., Pelotas, Brazil: 666 miscellaneous insects from Brazil (219968).
Bigelow, Dr. Henry B. University)
Bingham, Mrs. Walter V., Washington, D. C.: Hammond multiplex typewriter (215861); cloth tea pouch used to carry letters from England to Tripoli (216086).
Bir, Sarmuckh Singh. College)
Bird, Charles D., Stillwater, Okla.: 72 fresh-water mollusks and 12 insects from southwestern Saskatchewan (216788).
Bisell, Mrs. Eleanor Wolfley; Shannon, Mrs Caroline Wolfley; and Harman, Mrs. Elizabeth Welfley, Washington, D. C.: Photograph of Lt. Col. William Irvin Wolfley, U.S. V., letter of appointment to this rank, and the membership certificate of Dr. Lewis Wolfley in the 12th Medical Society, Ohio, dated 1826 (219146).
Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Honolulu, T. H.: (Through Edwin H. Bryan,
(See
(See Harvard
(See Khalsa

<<<Page: 109>>>

Jr.) 8 gorgonians and 2 antipatharians from Palau (209492); (through Dr. Charles H. Edmondson) 4 crabs (216321).
Black, Mrs. V. A., Wilmington, Del.: 64 echinoids from the Cretaceous, Montgomery County, Ala. (215834).
Blair, Charles, Birmingham, Ala.: 30 specimens of a Silurian genus from old Citico Mine near Atalla, Ala. (215385).
Blair, Don, Huntsville, Ala.: 3 blind cave fishes and 3 crayfish from Alabama (215357).
Blake, Dr. Sidney F., Beltsville, Md.: Fern from Washington, D. C. (215839); shrew from Maryland (219681).
Blanchard, A., Houston, Tex.: 10 parasitic wasps from Texas (216826).
Blaw, Beatrice, Atlantic City, N. J.: (Through Free Public Library) plaster mask of President Abraham Lincoln
(215722).
Bliss, Dr. Dorothy E. (See Akasaka, Hideo)
Bliss, Robert Woods, Washington,
D. C.: Diplomatic uniform worn by donor at court functions in St. Petersburg when attached to the United States Embassy at Petrograd (217940); carved paddle from Polynesia (219742).
Blow, Dr. W. H., Walletta, Malta: 104 Foraminifera, including holotypes and paratypes, Miocene of Eastern Falcon, Venezuela (215831). ° *°%
Blume, Mrs. E. J., Washington, D. C.: Leech from goldfish bow! (213730).
Blume, Prof. Dr. Werner, Goettingen, Germany: 517 mollusks from Italy, including 4 paratypes (215264, exchange).
Board of Commissioners of Agriculture & Forestry, Honolulu,:T. H.: (Through Vernon E. Bock) 2 fishes from the Pacific Ocean (216234).
Boardman, Mrs. William F., Washington, D. C.: Black broadcloth pape, 19th century (216388). Bh
Bock, Vernon: E. (See baa “of Commissioners of Agriculture , & Forestry)
Boerger, Alfred G., Toledo, Ohio: 2 cards and 1 cover, first-day (216087).
Boevers, Friedrich, Goslar, Germany: 2 banded copper ores from Harz, Germany (220025).
Bogitsh, Dr. Burton J., Charlottesville, Va.: 3 parasitic helminth worms, holotypes, from Albemarle County, Va. (215880).
Bohart, Dr. G. E., Beltsville, Md.: Holotype and allotype of wasp from Mexico (219443). (See also Agriculture, U. 8. Department of)
Bohart, Dr. Richard M., Davis, Calif.: Wasp from California (216423).
Bohlke, Dr. James. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Boker, John R., New York, N. Y.: 2,000 U. S. stamps with Bureau of Engraving precanceled overprints to be added to the W. B. Hoover Memorial Collection (216099).
Bolli, Dr. H. M., Port-of-Spain, Trinidad: 150 Foraminifera, Lower Cretaceous of Trinidad (215832).
Boltovoskoy, Dr. Esteban, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 13 recent foraminifers from Brazil (215387). (See also Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales)
Bonin, Mrs. E. J., Minneapolis, Minn.: G. A. R. belt, buckle, and buttons (215596).
Booth, A. H., Achimota, Accra, Ghana: Skeleton of bird (217159, exchange).
Borgmeier, Dr. Thomas, Rio de
Janiero, Brazil: 34 parasitic wasps from South America (219493).
Borro, Primitivo, Havana, Cuba: 18 brachiopods from the Tertiary of Cuba (215384, 218426).
Bos, Mrs. D. S., Barranca bermeja, Colombia: 42 beetles, 2 water-striders, and 66 butterflies (212484).
Bostrom, Martin, Orebro, Sweden: 2 philatelic covers of Sweden (219888).
Botanisch Museum en Herbarium, Utrecht, Netherlands: (Through Karl U. Kramer) 7 ferns, and 8 photographs of fern types (217411, exchange) ; photographs of 32 phanerogams, 3 ferns (219138, exchange).
Botanische Staatssammlung, Munich, Germany: 40 eryptogams (219301, exchange).

<<<Page: 110>>>

Botanisches Institut der Universitat, Heidelberg, Germany: 19 plants from Peru (214190, 218441); 5 plants from Peru, collected by Prof. Dr. W. Rauh (219137).
Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Cambridge, Mass.: 4 brachiopods, Mississippian of Austria, 14 brachiopods, Devonian of Germany, and 1 fusuline, Permian of Austria (217358); 10,000 invertebrate fossils from Sweden (218433).
Boudreaux, H. Bruce. (See Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College)
Bousfield, Dr. E. L. Government of)
Boutros, Mrs. Erian. Richard Douglas)
Boutros, Richard Douglas, Rochester, N. Y.: (Through Mrs. Erian Boutros) working model, Moth scale of a coalfired Italian State Railway locomotive, tender and flat car, and spare parts (4th interest) (217774).
Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine: (Through Philip S. Wilder) collection of physical and chemical apparatus (219414).
Bowker, Edward N., Kittery, Maine: Uniform, canteen, and mess kit used during the Spanish-American War by donor (219900).
Bowman, Betty, Kensington, Black-billed cuckoo (215366).
Boyd, Alfred W., Denver, 2 walrus tusks (215767).
Boyden, Mrs. W. S., Greenwich, Conn.: (Through Mrs. Jules R. Breuchaud) gold-lace skirt, with train, presented to Mrs. Boyden as a wedding gift in 1900 by the President of France (214549).
Brabson, Lt. Col. Kimberly, San Francisco, Calif.: Barking deer from Cambodia (217524).
Bradford, Faith, Chevy Chase, Md.: 42 accessories of dress and ethnological specimens (216658).
Bradley, Dr. W. H., Washington, D. C.: 7 larvae and/or cases of flies from Maine (219754).
Brandt, Rolf, Bengazi, Libya: 375
(See Canada,
(See Boutros,
Ma.:
Colo.:
mollusks, mostly land snails, from Libya (219739, exchange).
Braniff Airways, Inc., Dallas, Tex.: 3 first flight covers (216092).
Branscomb, Don, Willits, Calif.: 3 ferns from California (216761, 220054).
Bredin, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce. (See Bredin Fund)
Bredin Fund, Smithsonian Institution: (Through Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Bredin) 6,334 marine invertebrates, 14,350 mollusks, 20 corals, 22 insects, 2 cryptogams, and fishes, collected by the Smithsonian-Bredin Expedition to the Society Islands; 7 specimens of skeletal material from Makatea, Gambier Group, French Oceania (213821).
Breuchaud, Mrs. Jules R. (See Boyden, Mrs. W. 8.)
Breuer, Joseph P., Harlingen, Tex.: 2 marine invertebrates, 28 mollusks, 2 algae (218494).
Bridgman, Charles F., Rochester, N. Y.: First-day cover (216098).
Bright, Robert C., Salt Lake City, Utah: (Through Dr. David Nicol) 1900 Pleistocene fresh-water mollusks from near Preston, Idaho (215909).
Brinton, E. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Bristol, Lee H., Jr. Myers Products Division)
Bristol, University of, Bristol, England: (Through Dr. W. F. Whittard) 306 invertebrate fossils from the Paleozoic and Mesozoic, Great Britain (215245, exchange).
Bristol-Myers Products Division, New York, N. Y.: (Through Lee H. Bristol, Jr.) collection of pharmaceutical antiques, including 2 rare 13th-century drug jars (217935).
British American Bank Note Company, Ltd., Ottawa, Canada: 22 die proofs of vignettes used for Canadian currency and 14 photo reproductions of Canadian Bank notes (219999).
British-Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition, Adelaide, Australia: (Through Sir Douglas Mawson) 117 samples of Antarctic diatoms of the Expedition of 1929-31 (216299).
(See Bristol

<<<Page: 111>>>

Brockington, Johnny L., Orangeburg, S. C.: 11 marine mollusks from Yonges and Edisto Islands, Charleston Co., 8. C. (215507). :
Brodie, Mrs. Raiph, and Carpenter, Mrs. Clifford P., Washington, D. C.: 19th century woman’s embroidered mull nightcap and pair of man’s green silk suspenders embroidered in colors (216398); Demeccratie convention delegate’s badge, 1876, and medal commemorating the centennial of the founding of the United States Patent Office (218889) ; mahogany curling stick and a mourning brooch, circa 1870 (219357). (See also Carpenter, Mrs. Clifford P.)
Brodkorb, Dr. Pierce. (See Florida, University of)
Bronnimann, Dr. P., Havana, Cuba: 3 Foraminifera types (216007).
Brookhaven National Laberatory, Upton, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Raymond Davis, Jr.) 110 tektites from China and the Philippines (220051).
Brother Clemente. (See Colegio de La Salle)
Brother Fabius, S. C., Montreal, Quebec: 40 lichens from Canada (216271).
Browder, Mrs. N. C., Falls Church, Va.: Hand-woven fabrics made during Civil War (217380).
Brown, Dr. W. L. (See Harvard (University)
Brown, Dr. Walter C. (See Stanford University)
Brown University, Providence, R. I.: (Through Dr. Barnaby C. Keeney) 17 antique scientific instruments (218984).
Bruce, George A., Atlanta, Ga.: 2 tektites from Philippine Islands (220079).
Bruneau, Dr. J. (See Institut Pasteur du Maroc)
Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., Takoma Park, Md.: 41 Austrian die proofs with official bulletins of Postage, Charity, and Airpost stamps (217277); 515 postal items, including first-day covers, posteards, envelopes, and plate number blocks (218466); souvenir program, First Day of Issue, 8¢ Giori Printing, and 76 various U. 8. stamps (219362). (See also Post Office Department)
Bruns, Hattie H., New York, N. Y.: 2 first-day covers, U. 8. Steel industry and United Nations 4-cent airmail (217278).
Bryan, Edwin H., Jr. Museum, Bernice P.) Buck, Dr. J. B.
Jamaica)
Builders Providence, Ine., Providence, R. I.: Venturi totalizing register (214200).
Bullis, Harvey R., Jr. U.S. Department of the)
Bullock, Mrs. Camille Prato, Washington, D. C.: Child’s dress, ca. 1880 (219893).
Burbanck, Dr. W. D., Woods Hole, Mass.: Isopod and shrimp from Mashpee River, Massachusetts (215338).
Burgess, Sabra O., San Francisco, Calif.: Indian cashmere shawl (218881).
Burns, Mrs. Eunice B., Washington, D. C.: Paisley shawl (215852).
Burton, Dr. Milby. (See Charleston Museum, The)
Butler, Dr. Ann. (See Louisiana Geological Survey)
Buys, Mrs. John L., Canton, N. Y.: 12,128 treehoppers and leafhoppers of world-wide localities (220117).
Byers, Donald J., Washington, Des: 2 bats, 7 snakes, 4 fishes, 10 mollusks, and 7 invertebrates from Cheju-do, Korea (213433).
Byrd, Col. D. Harold, Washington, D. C.: 11 items of uniform, Civil Air Patrol, World War II, mounted on a manikin (220133).
Byrd, Hon. Harry F., Washington, D. C.: 8 Confederate States bonds (216661).
Cain, Mrs. John H., Arlington, Va.: Black silk shawl (215361).
Calder, David R., Durban, Natal, Union of South Africa: 3 sets of South African birds’ eggs (215363).
California, University of, Berkeley Campus: 106 ferns from Java (215567); 7 paratypes of wasps from California (218565); (through P. C. Hutchison) phanerogam from Peru (218918); (through Dr. E. Gorton Linsley) 4 paratypes of Neuroptera from Mexico
(See Bishop
(See Institute of
(See Interior,

<<<Page: 112>>>

(216426). Los Angeles Campus: (Through Wayne J. Baldwin) 341 fishes from eastern Pacific (215412). Riverside Campus: (Through Prof. P. H. Timberlake) 20 parasitic wasps from California, paratypes (217369).
California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, Calif.: 431 phanerogams, 122 grasses, and 3 ferns from California (217652, exchange); (through Hugh B. Leech) 120 beetles from the Galapagos Islands, 106 beetles from Africa (216068) ; (through Dr. Hlizabeth McClintock) 2 cultivated ferns (217396); (through Dr. Allyn G. Smith) 5 land mollusks from California, paratypes (216566).
California State Fisheries Laboratory, Terminal Island, Calif.: (Through John H. Fitch) holotype and paratype of fish from Mexico (217414).
Camalier, Dr. C. Willard. Evans, Lester L.)
Cambodia, Embassy of, Washington, D.C.: (See Cambodia, Government of)
Cambodia, Government of: (Through Embassy of Cambodia) set of 3 aluminum-magnesium coins of Cambodia (216663).
Cambridge, Philip, Cardiff, 8. Wales: 14 marine and fresh-water mollusks from England, Australia, and South Africa, 5 fossil brachiopods from England (214410, exchange).
Campanhia de Diamantes de Angola, Lisbon, Portugal: (Through Dr. E. de Vilhena) 44 lace bugs from Africa (219731).
Campbeli, Mrs. Ann S., Washington, D. C.: Canal Zone first-day cover, 3-cent Gorgas Hospital issue (218463).
Campbell, Dr. Kenneth. (See New England, University of).
Canada, Government of, Department of Agriculture: 1062 phanerogams, 39 grasses, 31 ferns (217650, exchange); (through Dr. Stephen L. Wood) 2 paratypes of weevils from Manitoba (216433). National Museum of Canada: 19 lichens from Canada (216237, 216527, 217164); (through Dr. E. L. Bousfield) 56 amphipods, including 12 syntypes, from Ontario (215496, exchange).
Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
(See
tion: Spinel from Monte Somma, Vesuvius, Italy (214506); gold crystal (217863) ; tourmaline crystal group, from the Little Three Mine, Ramona, San Diego County, Calif. (217367) ; scheelite from Wyengheung, Korea (217924); chrysocolla and quartz from Arizona (218847) ; sylvanite on quartz from the Cressan Mine, Colorado (219126).
Cannard, S. George. (See Miller, Walter A.)
Cape Town, University of, Rondebosch, South Africa: 30 phanerogams, 151 ferns from South Africa (216625, exchange).
Capriles, Dr. J. Maldonado, New York, N. Y.: 31,190 miscellaneous insects from Pakistan (220120).
Cardenas, Dr. Martin, Cochabamba, Bolivia: 281 phanerogams, 16 grasses, 10 ferns, 3 cryptogams, from Bolivia (212278).
Carmichael, Dr. Leonard, Washington, D. C.: Cacheted airmail cover commemorating the dedication of the International Arrival Building, New York International Airport (217201).
Carnduff, Mrs. Arthur R., Washington, D. C.: Harly 19th-century embroidered mourning picture (218882).
Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh, Pa.: 2 skeletons of swifts (219371, exchange).
Carpenter, Mrs. Clifford P., and Bredie, Mrs. Ralph, Washington, D. C.: 53 bank notes, mostly of the Confederate States of America (219568). (See also Brodie, Mrs. Ralph)
Carpenter, J. F. ginia Stamp Club)
Carriker, M. A., Jr., Popayan, Colombia: 107 land mollusks from Colombia (217747).
Casey Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 3,709 beetles from Bolivia collected by Mr. Guillermo Pinckert J. (216435); reptiles and 11,027 miscellaneous insects from Thailand (217644). (See also Agriculture, U. 8. Department of)
(See Northern Vir-
Cash, J. D. (See Wyeth Laboratories) Castellanos, Dr. Alberto, Rio de
Janeiro; Brazil: Phanerogam from Brazil (212954).

<<<Page: 113>>>

Castleton China, Inc., New Castle, Pa.: (Through William H. Rice) service plate of same design as chosen by Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower for use in White House, and a birthday plate made in honor of President Hisenhower of type given to guests of a birthday party sponsored by the Republican Club of Pennsylvania (216714).
Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C.: (Through Father Dutilly)
80 Alaskan lichens collected by Dr.
H. C. Hanson (216524).
Causey, Dr. David, Fayetteville, Ark.: 64 parasitic copepods, including types (218907).
Central Airlines, Inc., Fort Worth, Tex.: (Through Keith Kahle) firstflight cover (215283).
Centro de Pesquisas Aggeu Magalhades, Recife, Brazil: (Through Dr. Frederico Simoes Barbosa) 24 freshwater mollusks from Chile and Ecuador
(213010).
Cerny, Dr. Petr. (See Moravske Museum)
Chace, E. P. (See Natural History Museum)
Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea, Smithsonian Institution: 245 cut Montana sapphires (215393); figure of the God of Longevity carved in Japan from tiger-eye from South Africa (219445); 2 carvings, jade and turquoise, carved in China (219446); garnet, 25.7 carats, from Idaho (219476).
Chamberlin, Prof. R. V., Salt Lake City, Utah: 6 centipedes from the United States (217638, 219957).
Chapin, Dr. James P., Tervuren, Belgium: Crab collected by King Léopold III on the Kabuzi Road, 1957 (218368).
Chapman, Dr. James W., San Mateo, Calif.: 332 ants and 1 termite from the Philippine Islands (211947, 216865) ; 187 ants from Australia (219484).
Charette, Leopold A., Burlington, Vt.: 1 plant (215721); 309 phanerogams, 33 grasses, 67 ferns, and 2 cryptogams from Japan (219756, exchange).
Charleston Museum, The, Charleston, 8. C.: (Through Dr. Milby Burton)
13 fishes: from South Carolina (217290).
Chase, Mrs. Agnes, Washington, D. C.: 65 grasses of Venezuela collected by Dr. Leandro Aristeguieta et al (215835).
Chase, Joseph Cummings, Milwaukee, Wis.: 7 portraits in oil of World War I naval officers (218884).
Cheng, Dr. Thomas C., Charlottesville, Va.: Trematode worm, type, from Virginia (217896).
Chermock, Franklin H., Baltimore, Md.: 42 butterflies, including 8 paratypes, from the United States (217765).
Chicago Natural History Museum, Chicago, Ill.: 376 phanerogams, 416 grasses (214569, 218448, exchange); Brazilian plant, collected by E. Yale Dawson (217402) ; (through Mrs. Marion Grey) 2 fishes, holotypes of new species from the Gulf of Mexico (219782, exchange); (through Dr. Fritz Haas and Dr. Alan G. Solem) 311 land and freshwater mollusks, including 101 paratypes, from South America (214498, exchange); (through Dr. Robert F. Inger) paratypes of 2 new species of reptile (216117, exchange); (through Dr. R. L. Wenzel) 34 lice from Africa and Burma (219552); (through Loren P. Woods) holotypes of 2 fishes from Gulf of Mexico (215233, exchange).
Chicago Philatelic Society, Chicago, Ill.: First-day cover (216089).
Chicago Zoological Park, Brookfield, Ill.: (Through Dr. George B. Rabb) 2 helminth worms from the lungs of a Bushmaster snake (215583).
Chipp, Charles W., Estate of, King-
ston, N. Y.: (Through Roger 4H. Loughran) machete and _ scabbard (217532).
Clain-Stefanelli, Dr. V., Arlington, Va.: 5 German proof coins in silver, copper-nickel, and brass (220030); 5 covers bearing various postal markings (220095).
Claringbull, Dr. G. F. Britain, Government of)
Clark, John J., Brooklyn, First-day cover (216096).
Clark, Gen. Mark W., Charleston, 8. C.: Envelope franked with 20 Japa-
(See Great
NY Nee

<<<Page: 114>>>

nese stamps of 1939; cover postmarked Kohe, Nippon, December 22, 1939, received by donor, then Major Clark, from the then Lt. Col. Dwight D. Hisenhower (219361).
Clark, Mrs. S. T., Arlington, Va.: Staffordshire porcelain plate, cup, and saucer (216877).
Clark University, Worcester, Mass.: 44 phanerogams, 11 grasses from James Bay and British Guiana, 9 lichens from Massachusetts (218864, 219266) ; (through Dr. Burton Gates) 6 lichens (218552).
Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates, Hyattsville, Md.: 37 centipedes from Durnstein, Austria, 15 millipedes, 9 centipedes, 7 miscellaneous insects, and 8 beetles (216430, 216577, 217254).
Clebsch, Alfred, Jr., Albuquerque, N. Mex.: Soapstone bowl from Greenland (218412).
Clement, Mrs. Edmund. ern Light Grange No. 6)
Clench, Dr. William J. University)
Cline, Dr. Howard. Congress)
Cloud, Dr. Preston E., Washington, D. C.: Datolite from Rosseno, Italy (216374) ; 19 land snails from Sicily and Poland (219680). (See also Interior, U. 8. Department of the)
Cochran, Dr. Doris M., Hyattsville, Md.: 6 ticks in various stages of engorgement (219967); old wooden hand loom used in Pennsylvania about 1800 (220059).
Codazzi, Dr. Leopoldo. (See Museo Spallanzani di Reggio Emilia)
Codoceo, R., Mrs. Maria, Santiago, Chile: 11 amphibians from Chile collected by donor (217987).
Cofer, Harland E., Jr., University, Ga.: (Through Hatten §S. Yoder, Jr.) muscovite intergrown with biotite, from the Mitchell Creek Mine, Upson County, Ga. (217266).
Cohen, Dr. Daniel, Gainesville, Fla.: Holotype and 4 paratypes of deep-sea fishes from the Central Pacific (217908).
Colby, Brig. Gen. Joseph M. (See Defense, U. S. Department of)
(See North(See Harvard
(See Library of
Cole, Dr. A. C., Knoxville, Tenn.: 4 ants from North America, including 1 paratype worker (217375, 219746).
Cole, H. A. (See Great Britain, Government of)
«Colegio Anchieta, Pérto Alegre, Brazil: 4 phanerogams from southern Brazil (215380).
Colegio de La Salle, Vedado, Cuba: 2,647 phanerogams, 28 grasses collected by Brother Leén and Brother Clemente (215369, 218870, exchange).
Coleman, Persis C. (See Coleman, Dr. Richard W.)
Coleman, Dr. Richard W., San Francisco, Calif.: 27 fresh-water snails from Nevada (215579); 74 fresh-water mollusks, 4 insects from southern Saskatchewan (216616).
Coleman, Dr. Richard W. and Persis C., San Francisco, Calif.: 1,227 marine invertebrates (215582).
Colless, Dr. Donald H., Singapore, Malaya: 40 adult mosquitoes and 7 larvae from Malaya (217293).
Colorado, University of, Boulder, Colo.: 66 lichens (219135, exchange).
Columbia University, New York, N. Y.: Lamont Geological Observatory: (Through Robert Bieri) 28 lots of plankton from Vema Cruise 7 (213328).
Commerce, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: Coast and Geodetic Survey: Artificial horizon (219304). National Bureau of Standards: 11 packets of crystalline carbon (215394).
Conklin, Howard L. (See Conklin, Mrs. William 8.)
Conklin, Mrs. William S. (deceased): (Through Howard L. Conklin) 44 items of laces and embroideries (216399).
Conover, Dr. Robert J. (See Rhode Island, University of.)
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, New York, N. Y.: (Through David Williams) 2 examples of early power cable (215400).
Cooke, Dr. William Bridge, Cincinnati, Ohio: 4 samples of material containing diatoms from Lassen Volcanic National Park (208908).

<<<Page: 115>>>

Cooley, Mrs. James, Washington, D. C.: Gray fox from the District of Columbia (220047).
Coonley, Mrs. Prentiss, Washington, D. C.: 17 hats ot the period 1935-1955 (218891).
Cooper, Dr. and Mrs. G. Arthur, Washington, D. C.: 1,000 fossils trom the Upper Ordovician, Silurian, and Middle Devonian, upper peninsula of Michigan and from Rogers City on the lower peninsula (216371).
Cooper, Dr. K. W., Gainesville, Fla.: 8,000 miscellaneous insects (217236).
Cope, Dr. Oliver B. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the)
Copenhagen, University of, Copenhagen, Denmark: 467 phanerogams, 301 cryptogams, 93 grasses, 39 ferns (217926, exchange).
Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.: (Through Dr. Edward C. Raney) 3,091 cyprinid fishes from North America (183792, exchange). Bailey Hortoriwm: 2 cultivated phanerogams (219779).
Cornwall, Ira E., Victoria, B. C., Canada: 10 barnacles from Dillon Beach, Calif. (215941).
Courtney, Mr. and Mrs. H. T., Millenbeck, Va.: Colony of barnacles, from the Miocene, St. Mary’s formation, Lancaster County, Va. (216856).
Crabill, Dr. R. E., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 2 centipedes from New Mexico, holotypes (217918, 218418); 17 centipedes from New York, including holotype and paratypes (219748).
Craig, Thomas A. (See Laboratories)
Craig, Wilfred S., Ames, lowa: Moth from Iowa (215702).
Cramer, Ernest A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Thomas Russell watch movement (218460).
Cramer, Dr. Howard R. lin and Marshall College)
Crampton, Beecher, Davis, Calif.: 48 grasses from California (217651).
Crawford, Robert Victor, Falls Church, Va.: Native copper, chalcopyrite, and bornite, from Bornite Lake, Canada (216063).
Abbott
(See Frank-
Crawford, W. B. Harvester Co.)
Creighton, Dr. W. S., Inglewood, N. J.: 75 ants from Mexico (219684).
Creole Petroleum Corporation, Maracaibo, Venezuela: 145 slides containing 193 specimens of Foraminifera from the Goajira Peninsula, Colombia (219299).
Cropley, Capt. R. EH. States Lines Company)
Crown: Agents, The, Washington, D. C.: (Through A. J. E. Davis) 46 postage stamps from British possessions (216884); 28 Mint postage stamps of various British Colonies (220129).
Cryer, Clifford T. L., Newark, N. J.: 186 plumbing and heating engineering tools and equipment (216348).
Cuatrecasas, Dr. José, Washington, D. C.: 215 phanerogams and 11 grasses from Colombia (216380, 217654, 217656, 219757); 13 plants from Peru (217647); 1,040 Colombian hepaties collected by donor (217817); young pit-viper from Colombia (219879). (See also Dr. Luis Ma Murillo, Padre Huertas and Padre Camargo)
Cuba Califernia Oil Company, Havana, Cuba: (Through P. B. MeGrath) 100 fossil echinoids, brachiopod, and 30 molluscan fragments from the Eocene and Miocene of Cuba (217364); 5 brachiopods, 24 echinoids, 19 foraminifera, 3 clams, and 1 bryozoan (219882).
Culberson, Dr. William L. (See Duke University)
Cullen, Mrs. Bessie L., Sarasota, Fla.: 4 U. 8. bank check revenue stamps (220098).
Cumming, Robert B. University of)
Curry, Prof. James. College)
Czech, Stanley, Erie, Mich.: 2 coins of Poland (220001).
Czechoslovak Academy of Science, Prague, Czechoslovakia: (Through Dr. Petr Stary) 9 parasitic wasps from Czechoslovakia (219876).
Czechoslovakia, Government of, Prague: (Through Artia, Ltd.) 56 post-.
(See International
(See United
(See Florida,
(See Williams

<<<Page: 116>>>

age stamps and first-day covers of Czechoslovakia (216886, 219891).
Dall, Dr. W., Brisbane, Australia: 37 shrimps from southeastern Australia (217985).
Dal Piaz, Dr. Giorgio. University of)
D’ Ancona, Prof. Umberto. (See Instituto di Zoologia e Anatomia Comparata)
Darling, Thomas, Washington, D. C.: 15 ferns from Florida (215840); 2 ferns from the Solomon Islands (216868, 219352).
Darnell, Dr. Rezneat M., Milwaukee, Wis.: 2,341 miscellaneous invertebrates from Lake Pontchartrain, La. (215285).
Daubenmire, Prof. &., Pullman, Wash.: 7 land snails from Washington (214107).
Davadie, Dr. Claude, Alger, North Africa: Barnacle from the Miocene of northern Africa (213485, exchange).
Davis, A. J. E. (See The Crown Agents)
Davis, Lilla W., Washington, D. C.: 3 linen tablecloths, knitted doily, table runner with tatted edging and insertion, 19th century (215851); 22 costumes accessories of the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries (216391); brass kerosene lantern (216400).
Davis, Dr. Mary Dabney, Washington, D. C.: 4 pieces of embroidery (215725).
Davis, Dr. Raymond, Jr. (See Brookhaven National Laboratory)
(See Padova,
Dawson, Dr. C. E., Wadmalaw Island, §. C.: 2 marine pelecypod mollusks from the Persian Gulf (212857).
Dayrit, Fernande G. (See National Museum, Manila)
deCristoforo, Wilfred H., Fort Bragg, N. C.: 5 relies of a Caligula’s Nemi ship (215559).
de Espada, Mrs. Celeste, Washington, D. C.: 8 stamps from Guatemala (216090).
DeFebio, Theodore T., Alexandria, Va.: Sherds and projectile points from Dare County, N. C. (217761).
Defense, U. S. Department of: Department of the Army: Howitzer pack (219512); Betnkalot rifle (219898); United States rifle, including flash suppressor (219984). Office of the Surgeon General: (Through Paul H. Arnaud, Jr.) 8,307 flies from Japan, Korea, and the Ryukyu Islands (216067). Ordnance Corps: 7 holders, tools, and samples of work on ceramic tooling (215035); Remington rifle from Raritan Arsenal (215292) ; 105mm Howitzer and canvas cover (219758); (through Brig. Gen. Joseph M. Colby) 9 trays and 14 display boards tracing the development of small arms ammunition (214101). U.S. Army Medical Service, Preventive Medicine Survey and Research Groups: 64 mammals from the Canal Zone (217287) ; (through Lt. Col. Samuel O. Hill) red bat from Texas (210936); (through Lt. Alexander A. Hubert) 70 pinned adults and 125 larval slides of 20 species of mosquitoes from the Ryukyu Islands (216066); 400 insects from Okinawa (216858); (through Capt. Vernon J. Tipton) 7 fleas from North America (217922); (through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) 60 bird skins from Panama (217607). (See also Institute for Medical Research). U. S. Army Mission to Panama: (Through Major T. G. Murnane) 9 bats from Panama (219878). U. S. Military Academy: (Through Col. E. C. Gillette, Jr.) 796 items of historical physical apparatus, relics of early science at U. S. Military Academy (217544). Walter Reed Army Medical Center: (Through Major Herbert C. Barnett) 56 flies from the Old World and Africa (216859); 426 pinned mosquitoes and 367 slides of mosquitoes from all over the world (220037); (through Dr. D. J. Gould) 187 pinned mosquitoes from Malaya (219560). Department of the Navy: Arctic Research Laboratory: (Through Mrs. George E. MacGinitie) 1142 marine mollusks from the vicinity of Pt. Barrow, Alaska, ineluding the holotypes of 2 new species, and 32 fossil brachiopods (214957). Bureau of Ships: Boeing gas turbine, Model 502-2H, ca. 1948 (220072). Hydrographic Office:

<<<Page: 117>>>

2 birds, 3 penguin chicks, 1 skua gull chick, 1 skua egg, and 1 penguin egg (211855). Naval Medical Research Units: (Through Dr. Joseph C. Bequaert) approximately 1,000 mollusks and crustaceans from Egypt (212578); (through Comdr. Robert E. Kuntz) 62 fishes, 2 mollusks, and 4 crustaceans from markets at Taipei, Formosa (215103); 130 land snails from Europe (215349); 76 mammals from Formosa (217577); 115 fresh-water pelecypods from Formosa (218373); 63 mammals, 69 birds, and 128 reptiles and amphibians from Formosa (219528); (through Dr. Conrad E. Yunker) 17 hermit crabs collected from the Red Sea _ coast (215459). Office of Naval Research: 3 mammals, 11,545 marine invertebrates, fishes, and mollusks collected in Antarctic 1955 and 1956 by “Operation Deepfreeze I’’ (205726) ; 4 lichens collected on Antarctic Cruise 1955 (215709); 30 Recent brachiopods from the Antarctic collected during ‘‘Operation Deepfreeze I” (217760). (See also George Vanderbilt Foundation).
De Fez, Dr. Siro, Valencia, Spain: 544 mollusks from southern Spain (216866, exchange).
Degener, Dr. Otto, Waialu, Oahu, T. H.: 42 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 12 ferns, 1 cryptogam, and 2 algae from Hawaiian Islands (217269, 217649); 20 ostracods from Canton Atoll (218669).
Deignan, Herbert G., Washington, D. C.: 55 marine and land mollusks from Saudi Arabia and Thailand, and 22 miscellaneous insects (217611).
Deis, Mrs. F. G., Oshkosh, Wis.: Manchu Imperial robe (217859).
deLaubenfels, Dr. M. W., Corvallis, Oreg.: 11 sponges from Hawaii, types (215262).
Delaware, University of, Newark, Del.: (Through Dr. Carl N. Shuster) 136 mysids from Indian River Inlet, Delaware (217188).
Delta State College, Cleveland, Miss.: 9 grasses collected in Mississippi by Dr. H. J. Jacob (215299).
Dendy, Richard. (See Dendy and Associates)
Richard
Den Hartog, Dr. J. P. (See Massachusetts Institute of Technology)
Denker, Mortimer M., New York, N. Y.: 3-volume collection of Swiss military stamps (216883).
de Oliveira, Dr. Paulo Erichsen. (See Ministério da Agricultura)
Der Bundesminister fiir das Post-und Fernmeldewesen. (See Germany, Republic of)
des Abbayes, Prof. H., France: 3 lichens (219979).
Deutch, Michael J., Washington, D. C.: Antique Chinese framed, paper, 17th-century painting, ‘‘The Festival of Boys”’ (219592).
de Vilhena, Dr. E. (See Campanhia de Diamantes de Angola)
De Wind, Norman, Annapolis, Md.: Silk quilt made by the fiancée of Captain William Stone, ca. 1760 (220127).
Diamond T. Moter Car Company, Chicago, Ill.: (Through Starrs Baldwin) model of Prime Mover Army truck (220032).
Directorate General of Antiquities, Baghdad, Iraq: (Through Dr. Naji al Asil) set of casts of the Shanidar I Neanderthal skeleton (220078).
Dobrovolny, Dr. Charles G. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of)
Dodge, Dr. H. R. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of)
Dominican Republic: (Through Agencia Filatelica Dominicana) 2 souvenir sheets, Olympic stamps, overprinted, envelope with airmail Olympic, and first-day cover (216891).
Domrow, Dr. R., Brisbane, Australia: 8 mites, paratypes, and vial of unmounted mites from Australia (219878).
Donahue, Ralph J., Merriam, Kans.: Wasp from Kansas (216246).
Donaldson, Mr. and Mrs. Stuart A., Rutherford, N. J.: 2 19th-century dolls (219318).
Doner, Harvey J., Hyattsville, Md.: Archeological material from Phoenix, Ariz. (217609).
Rennes,

<<<Page: 118>>>

Donnay, Dr. and Mrs. J. D. H., Baltimore, Md.: Fibrous calcite from Maryland (218849).
Donnelly, John Fenlon, Holland, Mich.: 11 Marine mollusks from Florida (216162, exchange).
Donovan, J. W., West Palm Beach, Fla: Marine mollusk from off Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (215306).
Doo, Roger C. H., Sydney, Australia: 4 minerals from Australia (218845, exchange).
Dougal, Katharine, Washington, D. C.: Early 19th-century baby dress and cap (217022).
Douglas, Justice William O., Washington, D. C.: 159 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 1 cryptogam, from the Himalayas (213336).
Dowling, Curtis F., Jr., Miami, Fla.: Fern (219780).
Drake, Dr. Carl J., Washington, D. C.: The Carl Drake collection of Hemiptera, approximately 100,000 specimens (206604); 23 bark beetles from New York (217634).
Drummond, Dr. W. C., Los Angeles, Calif.: 13 ferns (212569); cultivated fern (218449).
Drury, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur P., Washington, D. C.: 2 marble mantelpieces (214176).
Dugand, Dr. Armando, Barranquilla, Colombia: 29 phanerogams and 2 grasses collected by donor in Colombia (215564).
Duke University, Durham, N. C.: (Through Dr. William L. Culberson) 61 lichens from North Carolina (215712, 220026, exchange).
Dunavan, Mrs. David, Clemson, S. C.: 4,386 beetles from North America (215828).
Dunhovnik, Dr. Joze, Ljubljana, Yugoslavia: Lorrandite from Yugoslavia (219881).
Duvall, Norman, Washington, D. C.: Winchester shotgun and box of shells (217770).
Eales, Dr. Nellie B., Reading, England: 4 marine mollusks South Africa and Great Britain (215700).
479802—58——8
109 Edmondson, Dr. Charles H. (See Bishop Museum, Bernice P.)
Edwards, Charles E., Indianapolis, Ind.: Remington revolver (217773).
Egner, Mrs. C. L., Washington, D. C.: 2 revolvers (217383).
Eichner, L. C., Clifton, N. J.: Babylonian mathematical document (replica of the original Plimpton 322 at Columbia University) (218473).
Eickemeyer Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 12 mounted pictorial photographs by Clarence John Laughlin (216876).
Eilers, Mrs. R. E., Phoenix, Ariz.: Woman’s dress, black beaded bag, and string of black and gold color beads, ca. . 1913 (215123).
Eisele, Ernest. (See Nash, Mrs. Ruth Rhodes Morey)
Elbel, Robert E., Norman, Okla.: 7 lice, holotype, allotype, and 5 paratypes, from Thailand (217643).
Elgin, Mrs. Atlee Wayne, Chevy Chase, Md.: Black silk Quaker bonnet, mid-19th century (216394).
Elliott, Dr. Jack C. (See Ryukyus, University of the)
Elmezian, Jorge, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 5 Argentinean coins and 2 bank notes (220002).
Embrey, Dr. P. G. Britain, Government of)
Emerson, Lt. Col. K. C., Fort Leavenworth, Kans.: 487 lice from North America and the Philippines (217016, 217637); 10 lice, including 4 holotypes and 4 allotypes, from Thailand (217261, 217553); 2 lice, holotype and allotype (217766) ; 240 lice, world-wide localities (219494); louse, holotype and allotype, from Midway Islands (219687, exchange).
Engberg, Norma J., Alexandria, Va.: 4 land snails from Birmingham, Ala. (215359).
English, Kathleen M. I., Roseville, Australia: 3 flies from North America (215451, exchange). Be OS
Ericsson, L. M., Telephone Company, Stockholm, Sweden: (Through Dr. Torsten Althin) replica of early European telephone handset (218392).
(See Great

<<<Page: 119>>>

Escola de Agronomia do Nordeste, Areia, Paraiba, Brazil: 2 plants from Brazil (215376).
Escuela Agricola Panamericana, Tegucigalpa, Honduras: 115 phanerogams, 24 grasses, 195 ferns collected in Costa Rica and Honduras by Dr. Louis O. Williams (212959).
Estac&ie Agronémica Nacional, Sacavém, Portugal: 70 phanerogams, 25 grasses, 5 ferns, from Portugal (218871, exchange).
Estaci6n Experimental de Piscicultura, Maracay, Venezuela: (Through Dr. Franz H. Weibezahn) 12 Cymothoid isopods (215247).
Estrada, Emilio, Guayaquil, Ecuador: 7 human skulls and partial skulls from various sites in the Guayas Province, Ecuador (215362).
Etges, Prof. Frank J., Cincinnati, Ohio: 7 fresh-water snails from Giles County, Va. (216354).
Hurich, Alan R. (See Eurich, Richard H.) :
Eurich, Richard H., Melville, Mont., and Eurich, Alan R., New York, N. Y:: Plattner apparatus for chemical analysis and case containing drawing instruments used by father and grandfather of donors (219409).
Evans, Dr. and Mrs. Clifford, Washington, D. C.: 4 brackish-water mollusks from Ecuador (219293).
Evans, Dr. Howard E., Ithaca, N. Y.: 7 North American wasps, paratypes (217248); 30 vials of parasitic wasp larvae (219755).
Evans, Lester L., Miami, Fla.: 2 dental instruments used by Dr. Thomas W. Evans, late 18th century (219147); (through Dr. C. Willard Camalier) manuscript biography of Dr. Thomas W. Evans, written in 1900 by Theodore W. Evans (218458).
Evans, Dr. Mildred. College)
Evans, William P., Waterloo, Iowa: 66 medical instruments, equipment and other memorabilia of John Grant Evans, M. D., New Hartford, Iowa (217731).
Fabian, Dominick, Portland, Oreg.: First-day cover with 4cent flag stamp
(See Wheaton
(216889); 2 picture post cards bearing United Nations stamps with first-day cancel (219892).
Fager, Dr. E. W. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Father Dutiliy. (See’ Catholic University of America)
Father Hubert, La Trappe, Canada: 16 North American lice (217646).
Father Walter Kempf, Sado Paulo, Brazil: 106 ants from Brazil and Costa Rica (215787, exchange).
Feder, Mrs. Joseph Brown, Washington, D. C.: Paisley shawl and floral patterned plush furniture cover, late 19th century (220060).
Feinstein, Bernard, Washington, D. C.: 18 bird skins from Maryland and Delaware (219348); 42 small mammals
from Maryland, New Jersey, and Virginia (220086).
Fellers, R. EH. (See Post Office Department)
Fénykovi, Joseph J., Madrid, Spain: Skin, skull, and leg bones of an elephant from Africa (208986).
Ferguson, Dr. Frederick F. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Department of)
Ferriére, Dr. Ch. d’Histoire Naturelle)
Ferris, Mrs. Roxana S., Stanford,
(See Museum
Calif.: 3 plants of California and Nevada (217403) Fessenden, Dr. G. R., Baltimore,
Md.: 2 ferns from Maryland (217409). Fingerman, Dr. Milton, New Orleans, La.: 10 crabs collected at Ocean Springs, Miss. (215461). Firor, Dr. Whitmer B. Dr. Charles A.) Fischer, Prof. Roland L. gan State University) Fitch, John E. (See California State Fisheries Laboratory) Fitzgerald, James H. ceuticals, Inc.) Fitzgerald, John Dillon, Washington, D. C.: Christening dress, child’s dress and underskirt, ca. 1890, and large bisque doll, ca. 1900 (219358).
(See Waters,
(See Michi-
(See Pharma

<<<Page: 120>>>

Fleetwood Cover Club, Pleasantville, N. Y.: (Through Mrs. E. M. Peck) 2 first-day covers (216675).
Fleminger, Dr. Abraham. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the)
Floch, Dr. Hervé, Cayenne, French Guiana: 22 fresh-water snails from Cayenne (215358).
Florida, State Plant Board of, Gainesville, Fla.: 4 cryptogams from Florida (215323, 215492); 2 algae from Florida (217282).
Florida, University of, Gainesville, Fla.: (Through Dr. Pierce Brodkorb) 116 Mexican birds (216455, exchange) ; (through Robert B. Cumming) shrimp from Squirrel Chimney, Fla. (218624) ; (through Prof. James B. Lackey) sample of diatom from Florida (216637) ; (through Dr. E. Lowe Pierce) 76 marine invertebrates, 2 mollusks (198986, 205641); (through Dr. Leonard HE. Swanson) 7 parasitic helminth worms from a land tortoise from Florida (214530); (through Marvin L. Wass) 2 crabs (213167); 4 crustaceans (215990).
Florida State Board of Conservation,
St. Petersburg, Fla.: (Through Dr. Victor G. Springer) gorgonian from Tampa Bay, St. Petersburg, Fla. (217190).
Florida State Board of Health, Vero Beach, Fla.: (Through Dr. Robert W. Harrington, Jr.) 1 fish (214878, exchange); (through Mrs. Elisabeth C. Beck) 4 slides of biting midges from Florida (216074).
Florida State University, Tallahassee, Fla.: (Through Frank J. Little, Jr.) 3 sponges from St. Theresa, Franklin Co., Fla. (217213).
Forman, Harry J., Philadelphia, Pa.: 4 stock certificates and 1 bank check (220000).
Fosberg, Dr. F. R. U.S. Department of the)
Foster, Mulford B., Orlando, Fla.: 62 plants from Mexico (215374); 5 bromeliads (219694).
Fowler, James A., Bloomfield Hills, Mich.: 248 reptiles collected by donor, mainly in Maryland and _ Virginia (216044).
(See Interior,
Franco, Dr. Asela B., Cebu City, Cebu, Republic of Philippines: 58 marine mollusks from Cebu (215697).
Frandsen, John C., Salt Lake City, Utah: 2 trematode worms, paratypes, from Utah (215418).
Frank R. Gunn Company, Inc., Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Redvers Hocken) beetle from South America (218417).
Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa.: (Through Dr. Howard R. Cramer) 2 starfishes, Ordovician of Pennsylvania (216853); nautiloid, Devonian of Pennsylvania (219562).
Free Public Library. (See Blaw, Beatrice)
Freeman, Dr. C. C., New Orleans, La.: 4 flies from Alabama (219180).
Freer, Dr. Ruskin S., Lynchburg, Va.: 167 phanerogams and 7 ferns from Virginia (217285).
French, Prof. A. P. Carolina, University of)
Friden Calculating Machine Company, Ine., Chicago, Ill.: (Through James E. Hendrix) 36 Commercial Conrols Corporation slogan tapes without indicia (217669).
(See South
Frieders, Rev. Fabian. (See Saint Meinrad Archabbey) Frimerkjasalan. (See Iceland, Gov-
ernment of)
Froiland, Prof. Sven G., Sioux Falls, 8S. Dak.: 17 phanerogams from South Dakota (215715).
Frost, C. A., Framingham, Mass.: 2 bees and 6 beetles from Massachusetts (217253).
Frost, Dr. S. W. State University)
Fundacién Miguel Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina: (Through Dr. Nicolas Kusnezov) 15,000 ants, including 200 species, from Argentina (219555, exchange).
Fundacién Rockefeller, O. E. E., Mexico, D. F.: (Through Dr. William W. Gibson) 136 beetles from Mexico (216863).
Funkhouser, Karl, Arlington, Va.: 4 calcite specimens from Belmont Trap
(See Pennsylvania

<<<Page: 121>>>

Rock Company Quarry, Staunton, Va. (216030, exchange).
Galun, Margalith. Research Station)
Garvan, Dr. Anthony, Washington, D. C.: Airmail letter sheet of Israel impressed with 250 pruta stamp (220065).
Gates, Dr. Burton. versity)
Gates, Dr. G. E., Bangor, Maine: 103 earthworms (218557).
Geesteranus, Dr. R. A. Maas. Rijksherbarium)
General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.: Research Laboratory: (Through E. F. Hennelly and J. R. Morgan) experimental model of radio receiver (215399); (through Dr. Albert W. Hull) 3 early electron tubes (217661) ; (through Miles J. Martin) 3 early radio receivers and transmitter (218872); (through W. C. White and J. R. Morgan) 35 electron tubes (220105).
General Services Administration, Washington, D. C.: 14 semiprecious stones (219125); 311 uncut diamonds, locality unknown (219475). (See also Justice, U. 8. Department of)
Gentile-Farinola, Marquis F., Paris, France: Death mask of Napoleon Bonaparte (218469).
Geoghegan, William Earle, Baltimore, Md.: Master’s license, issued by Bureau of Navigation and Steamboat Inspection in 1935 to donor’s father (220006).
Geologisch-Mineralogisch Instituut der Rijksuniversiteit, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through Dr. I. M. van der Vlerk) 91 Tertiary mollusks from Java (214149, exchange).
George, Mrs. Elizabeth, Tossa de Mar, Gerona, Spain: Antique Abyssinian manuscript Christian Bible, 6 contemporary primitive oil paintings, 59 silver buttons, crosses, and other objects illustrating Ethiopian craftmanship and 18 Ethiopian coins (217007).
& George Vanderbilt Foundation and Defense, U. S. Department of, Depariment of the Navy: (Through Dr. Frederick M. Bayer) 4,956 marine invertebrates from Palau Islands, 1,600 mol-
(See Agricultural
(See Clark Uni-
(See
lusks, 280 corals, and 1 helminth (206221).
Georgia, University of, Athens, Ga.: Phanerogam and 156 grasses from Georgia (215754). Marine Institute: Sapelo Island, Ga.: (Through Alfred E. Smalley) juvenile pigmy sperm whale from Georgia (219350).
Georgia Department of Mines, Mining, and Geology, Atlanta, Ga.: (Through Vernon J. Hurst) 6 hydroxyl apatites and 1 lot of phosphates from Georgia (218852, exchange).
Gerecki, Mrs. Julie M., Webster Groves, Mo.: 48 postage stamps of Great Britain (217672).
Germany, Republic of, Bonn: (Through Der Bundesminister fiir das Post-und Fernmeldewesen) 7 stamps issued in Germany, 1957 (217386); 16 mint stamps of Germany (219991).
Gibbs, Dr. Robert H., Jr., Boston, Mass.: 89 fishes from New England waters (217291, exchange).
Gibraltar Minerals Co., Dallas, Tex.: (Through Gordon Zareski) 2 uraninites from Saguache County, Colo. (215395).
Gibson, Dr. William W. (See Fundacién Rockefeller, O. E. E.)
Giles, Donald E., Corvallis, Oreg.: 5 slides, holotypes and paratypes of a new species of parasitic worm (216818).
Gilhooly, David J., IfI, Los Altos, Calif.: 6 marine mollusks from St. Croix, Virgin Islands (215506).
Gillespie, William H., Morgantown, W. Va.: 113 cryptogams from West Virginia, collected by donor (217794).
Gillette, Col. E. C., Jr. (See Defense, U. S. Department of)
Giridlian, J. N., Arcadia, Plant (217399).
Glenn, Murray O., Henry, IIll.: 28 microlepidoptera from Illinois (215829).
Godin, George V. H., East St. Louis, Ill.: 30 stamps of Northwest Pacific Islands (220068).
Goff, Frederick R. Congress.)
Gogolewski, Mrs. H. D., Stamford, Conn.: Woman’s dress, early 20th century (216544).
Calif. :
(See Library of

<<<Page: 122>>>

Goldring, Dr. R., St. Andrews, Scotland: 15 brachiopods, Devonian and Carboniferous of England (216598, exchange).
Goldwater, Senator Barry M., Washington, D. C.: E. and H. T. Anthony “Success Camera,’’ with lenses, tripod, and plate holders (215780).
Goodheart, Prof. C. F. College)
Gooding, R. U. University of)
Goodrich, C. O., Plymouth, Ind.: Cold-weather starting device for tractors, made and sold by donor 1928-1936 (218874).
Gordon, Elizabeth, University Park, Md.: Ethnological objects and photographs from various southwestern Indian tribes (216404).
Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Panama, Republic of Panama: 622 mammals, 4 birds, and amphibians collected in Panama (214172); (through Dr. Carl M. Johnson) 671 mammals, 3 birds, 6 reptiles, and amphibians from Panama (217194); 21 ticks, 20 mites, 35 fleas, 1 beetle, from Panama (219559).
Gorham, Stanley W., Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: 16 reptiles and amphibians from Canada (217102).
Goslin, Charles R., Lancaster, Ohio: Fern and 2 photographs of ferns (217406).
Gosline, Dr. William. University of)
Gothenburg Ethnographic Museum, Goteborg, Sweden: (Through S. Henry Wassen) 92 type specimens of archeological material from Panama and Colombia, 1957 (215801, exchange).
Gould, Dr. D. J. (See Defense, U. S. Department of)
Grabfield, Dr. G. Philip, Milton, Mass.: 1 cacheted envelope (216088).
Graham, Mrs. M. Edna, Lincoln, Nebr.: Archeological material and casts from Illinois, Indiana, Arkansas, and other states (217242).
Grania Agricola Experimental, Palmira, Colombia: 143 plants from Colombia (216384).
(See Union
(See Washington,
(See Hawaii,
Grant, Major Chapman, Escondido, Calif.: 7 lizards and 3 snakes from Cuba, collected by donor (216905).
Grashel, L. F., Portsmouth, Ohio: Catlinite from near Portsmouth, Ohio (218689).
Grau, Gilbert C., Los Angeles. Calif.: 3 mollusks, including paratype, from Australia and New Zealand (217610).
Gray, Milton B., Woods Hole, Mass.: 5 shrimps, 1 stomatopod (217322).
Great Britain, Government of, London, England: British Museum (Natural History): 3 Oriental mosquitoes on slides (219745); (through Dr. G. F. Claringbull) paracelsian from Wales, and faceted cut stone of olivine (219295, exchange); (through Dr. P. G. Embrey) cornubite with olivinite from Cornwall, England (219563, exchange); (through R. J. Izzard) 6 plant bugs and 2 cotton stainers from Africa (216484, exchange) ; (through Dr. P. F. Mattingly) 6 Oriental mosquitoes, paratypes (219875); (through F. G. A. M. Smit) 21 fleas from Africa and 2 fleas from Asia (217764); (through E. R. Speyer) 42 thrips from Sudan and India (217260); 4 lice from Africa (217642). Ministery of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Food: (Through H. A. Cole) 22 marine snails from England (217905).
Green, Margaret, Candler, N. C.: 16 lichens from North Carolina (218370).
Greenhall, Dr. Arthur M., Port-ofSpain, Trinidad: 272 bats from Trinidad and vicinity (216197, exchange).
Gregg, Dr. Robert E., Boulder, Colo.: Ant, paratype, from Madagascar (217641); 12 ants from North America, including types (219688, exchange).
Grey, Mrs. Marion. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Grice, Dr. George D., Tallahassee, Fla.: 18 copepods (210972).
Griffenhagen, Dr. Richard B., Fresno, Calif.: 12 instruments used in the practice of veterinary medicine (217776).
Griffin, Mrs. Bobbie A., Longview, Tex.: Victorian doll carriage (219986).
Griffiths, Dr. Henry J. (See Minnesota, University of)

<<<Page: 123>>>

Grimes, Virginia Lee, Washington, D. C.: German porcelain cup (215724).
Grimm, Wayne, Catonsville, Md.: 140 land and brackish-water mollusks from Maryland (217464).
Guagnino, Alessandro, Melilla, North Africa: 375 marine, land, and freshwater mollusks from North Africa and Spain (212740, exchange).
Guatemala, Government of: (Through Sr. Augusto Mulet-Descamps) 3 ‘‘Red
Cross’ semipostals of Guatemala (217024). Guido, Dr. Aquiles Silveria. (See
Universidad de la Republica)
Guiglia, Dr. Delfa. (See Museo Civico de Storia Naturale de Genova)
Guillemin, Dr. C. (See Université de Paris)
Gurney, Dr. Ashiey B., Washington, D. C.: 250 Orthoptera from Pennsylvania (217251); 23 miscellaneous insects, mostly beetles, from Hardy County, W. Va. (217262).
Gutschick, Dr. R. C. Chris E.)
Haaf, Dr. E. (See Museum G. Frey)
Haag, Leroy, Manassas, Va.: Brass spur found on battlefield of Bull Run (217929).
Haas, Dr. Fritz. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Hagemyer, Richard H., Washington, D. C.: 36 marine mollusks from the Marshall Islands (218763).
Hagemyer, Mr. and Mrs. Richard H., Washington, D. C.: 3 marine mollusks from Majuro Atoll, Marshall Islands (218853).
Halbert, L. A., Chevy Chase, Md.: Red cedar waxwing (217357).
Hale, Dr. Mason E., Jr., Washington, D. C.: 10,0385 lichens from eastern United States (215777); 390 lichens from Maryland, Virginia, and New Jersey (216620); 422 ecryptogams from West Virginia, Virginia, and Connecticut (217270).
Hale, Mrs. R. Glenn, Rochester, N. Y.: Evening dress worn in Paris and Monte Carlo by donor, then Mrs. Milan Francis Pratt, ca. 1920 (219698).
(See Alter,
Hall, Don R. pany, The)
Halpine, Capt. Charles G., Ret’d., Annapolis, Md.: Human skull (without lower jaw) and skeletal parts (217352).
Hammely, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 16 first-day covers of United States, United Nations, and Canadian postage stamps (219373).
Hanahan, Jack, Belmont, N. C.: 13 kyanites from Buncombe County, N. C., uraninite from Avery and Mitchell Counties, N. C., and columbite from Powhatan, Va. (215276, exchange); 3 minerals from North Carolina (219720, exchange).
Hand, Dr. Cadet, Berkeley, Calif.: 22 sea anemones from California (214337). (See aiso National Research Council)
Hani, N. (See Iraq, Government of)
Hansen, Dr. Keith &., DeLand, Fla.: 2 lots of parasitic helminth worms and copepods, from Florida (214790); 4 specimens of the Cysticercus stage of a tapeworm (218824).
Hanson, Dr. John F., Amherst, Mass.: 69 stone flies from North America (173060).
Haque, Dr. A. F. M., Mohsenol, Quetta, West Pakistan: Fossil echinoid from the Eocene at Charce Nala, West Pakistan (217265).
Hara, Dr. Jun, Narashimae-Shi, Japan: 2 adult mosquitoes and 4 slides from Japan (219489).
Hardy, Dr. D. Elmo, Honolulu, T. H.: 6 crane flies from the Hawaiian Islands, including types (219486).
Harkness, Norris, New York, N. Y.: Cover commemorating the 10th anniversary of the Pan American round-theworld flight (216102).
Harlan, Justice John M., Washington, D. C.: Presentation booklet containing 56 stamps of Switzerland, for use in the
(See Upjohn Com-
United Nations European office (217670). Harman, Mrs. Elizabeth Wolfley. (See Bisell, Mrs. Eleanor Wolfley) Harrington, Dr. Robert W., Jr. (See Florida State Board of Health) Harrington, Russell C. (See Treas-
ury, U. 8. Department of the)

<<<Page: 124>>>

Harry, Dr. Harold W., Washington, D. C.: 94 snails from Martinque and St. Thomas, V. I. (218421).
Harry, Dr. Robert R. (See Stanford University)
Hart, Dr. C. W., Jr. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.: Biological Laboratories: (Through Dr. E. O. Wilson) ant from New Guinea (216438). Museum of Comparative Zoology: 45 bot flies, 1 beetle larva, 377 beetles, 2 centipedes, and 1 threadlegged bug, from world-wide localities (219874); 13 frogs from Central and South America and 6 frogs, paratypes, from Cuba (219972, exchange) ; (through Dr. Henry B. Bigelow and William Schroeder) 4 fishes, holotypes, from the Gulf of Mexico (217123, exchange); (through Dr. W. L. Brown) 26 ants from North America and New Guinea (215830, 216432); worker ant from Africa and beetle from South America, paratypes (216439, 216470); 231 ants from Ethiopia and the Orient (216584) ; 26 ants from Australia, including 2 cotypes (219747); 24 ants from New Guinea and India (219749); (through Robert Robertson and Dr. William J. Clench) 9 marine mollusks, including 6 paratypes of new species and subspecies, from the West Indies (218919, exchange); (through Dr. Harry B. Whittington) 6 brachiopods, Devonian of Germany and the Cretaceous of Switzerland (217557, exchange) ; (through Dr. Ernest E. Williams) 13 frogs from tropical America (218948, exchange).
Hasse, William F., Jr., Hast Haven, Conn.: 10 early checks and stock certificates (219994).
Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Curitiba, Parand, Brazil: 174 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 2 ferns from Brazil (215378, 215756, 216875, 217222); 31 plants from Brazil (218442).
Hattori, Dr. S. (See Hattori Botanical Laboratory)
Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Nichinan-shi, Japan: 50 Japanese mosses (216641, exchange); (through Dr. §8%.
Hattori) 50 cryptogams from Japan (219692, exchange).
Hawaii, University of, Honolulu, T. H.: (through Dr. A. H. Banner) 2 shrimps from Moorea, Society Islands (213593); (through Dr. William A. Gosline) 12 fishes, including holotypes and paratypes, from Hawaii and Tuamotus (215755, exchange); 10 gobioid fishes from the Marshall Islands (216770, exchange); 32 parasitic isopods from Oahu (217140).
Hayden, Senator Carl (See United States Senate)
Haynes, Vance, Golden, Colo.: Samiresite from Gunnison County, Colo. (213176).
Hays, Dr. Kirby L., Auburn, Ala.: 3 rare flies from Michigan (217636).
Hazard, Louise B., Washington, D. C.: Miner’s patent folding pocket lantern (219985).
Hazeltine Research Corporation, Little Neck, N. Y.: Original experimental model of the neutrodyne circuit radio receiver of the early 1920's (220008).
Heald Machine Company, Worcester, Mass.: Model #60 cylinder grinding machine (219309).
Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: Food and Drug Administration: 5 tablets each of 4 different formulas, purported to be a cure for cancer, distributed by the Hoxsey Cancer Clinic, Dallas, Tex. (216401); (through L. R. Shelton) larval forms of cestode worm (216297). Public Healih Service: (Through Dr. H. R. Dodge) 85 flies including types (216587); (through Dr. Frederick F. Ferguson) 7 fresh-water snails recently introduced into Puerto Rico (214800) ; 20 fresh-water snails from Puerto Rico (216186) ; (through Dr. Laurence Irving) 358 birds from Yukon Territory (216406). Arctic Health Research Center: (Through Dr. Everett L. Schiller) 3 tunicates from St. Lawrence Island (201301); (through Dr. Robert Rausch) whale skull from Alaska (215028); 2 Savannah sparrows (215110). Communicable Disease Center: (Through Dr.

<<<Page: 125>>>

Harry D. Pratt) 8 slides of flies from Africa, Asia, and Europe (215970, exchange). National Institutes of Health: (Through Dr. Charles G. Dobrovolny) 12 beetles from Brazil (215769) ; (through Dr. William L. Jellison) 2 bats from Montana (216062, 216407); botfly, first adult to be reared from elk, from Montana (216583); 18 beetles from Montana (216737);* 2 meadow mice from Klamath Falls, Oreg. (217306).
Hearn, J. M., Jr. (See Hearn, J. M., Sr.)
Hearn, J. M., Sr., Dallas, Tex: (Through J. M. Hearn, Jr.) Chicago typewriter (219706).
Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel: (Through Dr. H. Steinitz) 14 parrot fishes from the Red Sea (215922, exchange).
Hecht, Robert E., Jr., Rome, Italy: Bronze token of gratitude for benefits received from the establishment of mail coaches in England (216672).
Heck, Mrs. Lewis. (See Opportunity Shop)
Heinmuller, John P. V., New York, N. Y.: 7,025 European stamps (216097).
Helenore, John C., New York, N. Y.: 47 bottles of pharmaceuticals and patent medicines of late 19th and early 20th centuries (220009).
Henderson, A. O. (See Kennon, Rev. Willard L.)
Hendrix, James E. (See Friden Calculating Machine Company, Inc.)
Hennelly, E. F. (See General Electric Company)
Herbario ‘“‘Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajaf, Brazil: 314 phanerogams, 54 grasses, and 54 ferns from Santa Catarina, Brazil (215379, 216632).
Hermann, Dr. Frederick J., Beltsville, Md.: 196 mosses and 1 fern from Maryland and the Rocky Mountains (215848, 216622, 218446); 25 phanerogams, 6 grasses, 2 ferns, from United States and Canada (219303). (See also Agriculture, U. 8. Department of)
Herpers, Richard, New York, N. Y.: Columbia University Bicentennial bronze medal (216976).
Hesse, Robert, Glenside, Pa.: Stibiconite after stibnite from the Mina Santa Rita, Sierra de Catorce, San Luis Potosi, Mexico (216615).
Hewatt, Dr. Willis G. (See Texas Christian University, and Virginia Fisheries Laboratory)
High Teacher’s College, Baghdad, Iraq: (Through Dr. Kamel Khalaf) 12 biting midges from Iraq (219492).
Higman, James B. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Hill, Dr. Dorothy. (See Queensland, University of)
Hill, Lt. Col. Samuel O. (See Defense U. 8. Department of)
Hiltermann, Dr. H., Hannover, Germany: (Through Ruth Todd) 14 Foraminifera from the Cretaceous, Westphalia, Germany (218848).
Hinton, Dr. H. E., Bristol, England: 14 American beetles, paratypes of 7 species (216574).
Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Charlottesville, Va.: 3 type ostracods, 24 shrimps, 6 crayfishes, including 3 types, 3 crabs (217080); 3 crayfish types from Barnwell County, 8S. C. (217679); 6 crayfish, types (219171). —
Hocken, Redvers (See Frank R. Gunn Company, Inc.)
Hoehne, Dr. F. C., SAo0 Paulo, Brazil: phanerogam from Brazil (219354).
Hoffman, Edwin M., Black Mountain, N. C.: Mollusk from Okinawa, Ryukyu Is., Japan (217010).
Hoffman, Richard L., Blacksburg, Va.: 96 fresh-water mollusks from Virginia and North Carolina (213878, 215406); 13 scorpion flies, 1 hanging fly, and 1 brown lacewing (215613); 2 millipedes from Arizona and Texas (216075); holotype of beetle from the U. S. (217012); 4 millipedes from Tennessee, North Carolina, and Panama, including holotypes and _ paratypes (217913, 219490).
Hogue, Robert E., Bethesda, Md.: skull of an Adelie penguin from the Antarctic (215365) ; 4 mosses and lichens from Cape Hallett, Antarctica (215713).

<<<Page: 126>>>

Holland, Dr. F. D., Jr., Grand Forks, N. Dak.: 2 crabs from Cretaceous of North Dakota, types (215386).
Holmquist, Charlotte. (See Banner, Dr Al, H:)
Homan, B. H., New York, N. Y.: 196 stampless covers (216093); New South Wales essays, die and plate proofs, and reproductions (217932).
Honess, Ralph F. (See Wyoming, University of)
Hong Kong, University of, Hong Kong: (Through Dr. Ian W. B. Thornton) 58 marine mollusks from Hong Kong (218577).
Hopfinger, John C., Brewster, Wash.: 167 moths from the State of Washington (216428, exchange).
Hoshizaki, Mrs. Barbara Joe, Los
Angeles, Calif.: 5 cultivated ferns (217852).
Hosokawa, Prof. T. (See Kyushu University)
Houston, Mrs. K. J., Falls Church, Va.: 3 shoulder sleeve insignia of the 24th Corps, U. S. Army, World War II (215858).
Howard, Col. John K., Miami, Fia.: 4 fishes from West African waters (217355)
Howell, Mrs. Willard H., Southold, N. Y.: Collection of lens grinding, and telescopic material from the workshop of Henry Fitz (215541); 2 original letters to and from Henry Fitz, Jr., portrait photographer (219886).
Hoyme, Lucile E., Washington, D. C.: 7 children’s books (216084).
Hubbs, Dr. Clark. (See Texas, University of)
Hubert, Lt. Alexander A., San Francisco, Calif.: 68 snipe flies from North America (216570). (See also Defense, U. 8. Department of)
Hubricht, Leslie, Louisville, Ky.: 3,700 fresh-water mollusks from Kentucky, Indiana, and Alabama (216227); ciliates, 14 planarian worms, 6 isopods, 17 crayfishes, and 7 miscellaneous insects, from Kentucky and Tennessee (216319); 3 cladocerans, 2 crayfishes, 50 oligochaete worms, and dry sponges (216819).
Hudson, Dr. George E. (See Washington, State College of) Huerta-Montalvo, Dr. Francisco,
Guayaquil, Ecuador: Beetle from Ecuador (217767).
Hugghins, Dr. Ernest J. Dakota State College)
Hull, Dr. Albert W. (See General Electric Co., Research Laboratory)
Hull, Dr. Frank M., Oxford, Miss: 4 robber flies, paratypes, from Australia (219554).
Humes, Dr. Arthur G., Boston, Mass.: 2,690 copepods, 44 shrimps, 2 porcellanids, 114 erabs (214517).
Hummelinck, Dr. P. Wagenaar. (See Natuurwetenschappelijke Studiekring voor Suriname en de Nederlandse Antillen)
Hurst, Vernon J. partment of Mines)
Husak, Jerome, Milwaukee, Special cover (216668).
Husing, Fred C., Oakland, Calif.: 10 cacheted covers from California
(See South
(See Georgia De-
Wis.:
(216387).
Hutchings, Harry H. (See Kyburz, William)
Hutchison, Elizabeth, Washington,
D. C.: Pair of woman’s high button shoes, and bustle pad (218467).
Hutchison, P. C. (See California, University of)
Huttleston, Dr. Donald. wood Gardens)
Hutton, Robert F. (See State Board of Conservation Marine Laboratory)
Hyland, Dr. K. E., Jr., Kingston, R. I.: 2 mites from Florida (216412).
Hyman, Dr. Libbie. (See American Museum of Natural History)
Iceland, Government of, Reykjavik: (Through Frimerkjasalan) 36 Icelandic stamps, 3 first-day covers (216892); commemorative 5-Krone Hallgrimsson postage stamp of Iceland, 1957 (220102).
Idaho, University of, Moscow, Idaho: (Through Roland W. Portman) 7 land snails from Idaho (216983); (through Dr. Stewart C. Schell) 950 earthworms from a greenhouse in Twin Falls, Idaho (215688) ; 285 fresh-water mollusks from Idaho, Oregon, and Washington, and
(See Long

<<<Page: 127>>>

10 annelid worms, parasitic on freshwater snails from Washington (216298). Illinois, University of, Urbana, IIl.: 131 phanerogams, 12 grasses, 4 ferns and 3 eryptogams of the United States, chiefly from Illinois (219133, exchange) ; 17 reptiles and amphibians, paratypes, from Mexico, the Philippines, and the United States (219880, exchange).
Illinois Natural History Survey Division, Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr. Milton W. Sanderson) 7 beetles from North America (217998).
Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad: (Through Dr. N. W. Simmonds) cultivated phanerogam from ‘Tobago (215566).
Imperial Household, Laboratory of the, Tokyo, Japan: Zoanthid from Japan (217186).
India, Government of: Zoological Survey, Calcutta: (Through Dr. K. C. Jayaram) 1 fish (214877, exchange).
Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Sweden: 51 covers of Sweden with special cancellations (217390, 219889).
Inger, Dr. Robert F. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Institut Francais d’Afrique Noire, Dakar, French West Africa: (Through Dr. Theodore Monod) 3 marine mollusks from French West Africa (218420).
Institut Pasteur du Maroc, Casablanca, Morocco: (Through Dr. J. Bruneau) 53 lice and 5 nymphs from Africa (217630, 217645, 219487).
Institute for Medical Research, Kuala Lumpur, Malaya, and Defense, U. S. Department of: 977 lice from Malaya (217915).
Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica: Science Museum: (Through F. A. McDermott and Dr. J. B. Buck) 3 beetles, including 2 holotypes and a paratype (220020).
Instituto Agronémico do Norte, Belém, Pard, Brazil: 62 phanerogams from Brazil (215718); 152 phanerogams and 48 grasses from the Amazon Basin (215778, exchange); 45 phanerogams, and 74 grasses from Brazil (217401, exchange); cultivated plant (220124).
Instituto Botanico, Caracas, Venezuela: 6 plants from Venezuela (217410, 218861, 219695); (through Dr. Volkmar Vareschi) 3 ferns from Venezuela (216871); (through Dr. Leandro Aristeguieta) phanerogam from Caracas (219353).
Instituto de Betanica, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 5 phanerogams from Brazil (218869, exchange).
Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, San Isidro, Argentina: 2 plants from Paraguay (217400).
Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bogoté, Colombia: 13 phanerogams collected by Dr. Lorenzo Uribe Uribe (216105) ; 32 phanerogams and 3 grasses collected by Dr. Fernandez-Perez (217316) ; 39 phanerogams and 10 ferns collected by Dr. Garcia-Barriga (217317); 7 phanerogams, 2 grasses from Colombia (217319, 218633).
Instituto di Zoologia e Anatomia Comparata, Padova, Italy: (Through Prof. Umberto D’Ancona) 7 copepods from the Lagoon of Venice (216318).
Instituto Inter-Americano de Ciencias Agricolas, Turrialba, Costa Rica: 728 phanerogams, 52 grasses, and 7 ferns from Costa Rica (183743, 184848, 186080).
Instituto Nacional de Pesquisa da Amazénia, Manaus, Brazil: 11 plants from Brazil (217283).
Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Dr. W. L. Klawe) 3,806 miscellaneous marine invertebrates and 5 lots of insects (218562).
Interior, U. S. Department of the, Washington, D. C.: Fish and Wildlife Service: 20 phanerogams and 19 grasses from New Mexico (214501); 68 mammals (220045); (through W. W. Anderson) 280 lots of plankton samples from T. N. Gill cruises 1-4 (203789); 3 lots of plankton (213500); (through Edgar L. Arnold, Jr.) 3 fishes from the Mississippi River Delta (218534); (through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 244 mollusks, 12 parasitic worms, 2 foraminifers, 1 coral, and 113 cephalopods including types, from the Gulf of

<<<Page: 128>>>

Mexico (211983, 215389, 216411); 1,702 marine invertebrates, 156 mollusks, and 2 corals (215284); (through Dr. Oliver B. Cope) 12 copepods from Alaska (215249) ; 13 copepods from Yellowstone cutthroat trout, Wyoming (218754); (through Dr. Abraham Fleminger) 71 copepods (217786); (through Paul T. Kreager) 4 deer from St. Marks National Wildlife Refuge, Fla. (216987); (through Ross L. Leffler) large die proofs of the 1957-58 ‘duck’ stamp, and mint sheet of 28 subjects of the stamp (218465); (through Dr. Giles W. Mead, Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and James B. Higman) 1,710 fishes from the Gulf of Mexico and the western Atlantic, and 10,991 marine invertebrates (215120); (through Gus Sundstrom) 2 fishes collected on the Delaware in the western north Atlantic (216911); (through Roland L. Wigley) 6 amphipods (215457). Geological Survey: 1,450 Pleistocene and Recent fresh-water mollusks from Nevada (210940); (through Dr. Preston E. Cloud) 17 land and fresh-water mollusks from Indian Shell Mound, Spencer County, Ind. (215407); 90 land and fresh-water mollusks from the Pleistocene of Alaska (213747); (through Dr. F. R. Fosberg) 2 ghost crabs, 7 hermit crabs and 1 lizard, from the Marshall Islands (213920) ; 5 ferns from Malaya (216634); (through Dr. Robert H. Lyddan) 30 mollusks, early Ordovician of Missouri (217619); (through Dr. C. W. Merriam) 823 fossil crustaceans, Ripley, Owl Creek, and Prairie Bluff formations, Gulf Coastal Plain (215705); (through Thomas B. Nolan) chromite from Palawan Island, Republic of Philippines (215266) ; 58 rocks from Mountain Pass District, San Bernardino County, Calif. (215874); 3 niocalites, 3 britholites, Oka District, Quebec (216118); miserite from Arkansas, 2 szaibelyites from Manchuria and Morocco (216180) ; 3 zunyites, Silver City, Utah (216718); 10 nolanites, newly described, from Giles County, Va., and 20 ginorites from Death Valley, Calif. (216973); 4 specimens and | thin section of pre-
Cambrian rock from South Dakota (218547); 9 minerals from various localities (218909); 50 miscellaneous invertebrate fossils (219122); 15 minerals from the Belgian Congo (220081) ; (through Dr. Reuben J. Ross, Jr.) 50 trilobites, Valmy formation, Nevada (219479); 38 trilobites, Lower Ordovician, Colorado (219480); (through Ruth
Todd) 920 Foraminifera, Tertiary, Carter Creek, northeastern Alaska (219296). National Park Service: Cast
iron base and column from facade of Penn Mutual Insurance Co. building in Independence National Historical Park, Philadelphia (217620); 20 plants from Florida (218867); (through Herbert Maier) Chukchi coiled grass basket from eastern Siberia (217876). Sport Fisheries and Wildlife: (Through David L. Spencer) 6 young trumpeter swans (215447). Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands: (Through Delmas Nucker) 31 ethnological specimens, including wooden bowls and containers, tortoise-shell money and utensils, kilts, bags, wooden and shell implements, model house, ete., from Palau; and 1 mollusk from Palau (213418).
International Business Machines Corp., New York, N. Y.: 2 Leonardo da Vinci medaiets struck on the reconstructed coining press of Leonardo da Vinci (219992).
International Harvester Co., Albany, N. Y.: (Through W. B. Crawford) New York State plow, Carey type (220005).
Iowa, State University of, lowa City, Iowa: 146 phanerogams, 15 grasses, 7 ferns collected in southeastern lowa by Robert A. Davidson (216079, exchange) ; 720 phanerogams, 92 grasses, 32 ferns, from Wisconsin and lowa (218866, exchange).
Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, Ames, Iowa: (Through Dr. Leo A. Thomas) 5 brachiopods, Mississippian of Iowa (216785, exchange).
Iraq, Government of: (Through N Hani) 2 multicolored postage stamps of Iraq (217276).

<<<Page: 129>>>

Ireland, Mrs. Irma T., Washington, D. C.: Pottery jar and machine-woven table cloth, ca. 1830 (219360).
Ireland, Robert, Washington, D. C.: 278 mosses from New Jersey, West Virginia, and Virginia (217768).
Irving, Dr. Laurence (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of)
Irwin, M. P. Stuart, Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia: Set of eggs of a small waxbill from Rhodesia (216850).
Isham, Lincoln, Dorset, Vt.: 54piece silver-mounted mother-of-pearl handle, steak and chop set, and 8-piece silver service, both monogrammed “MTL”, which belonged to Mrs. Abraham Lincoln (216335) ; 11 Abraham Lincoln family heirlooms (219098).
Islas S., Dr. Federico, Mexico, D. F.: 22 beetles from Mexico (218603).
Issiki, Dr. Syfti, Sakai, Osaka, Japan: 5 microlepidoptera, types and paratypes, from Japan (215768).
& Itnyre, Paul, San Bernardino, Calif.: Galena from Joplin, Mo. (211376, exchange).
Ives, Harlem B., Detroit, Mich.: 3 mollusks from Destin, Fla. (216161).
Iwai, Dr. Tamotsu. (See Kyoto University)
Izzard, R. J. Government of)
Jackson, Ralph W., Cambridge, Md.: 11 land snails from Ecuador (215115, 216812).
(See Great Britain,
Jacobs, George E. (See National Museum, Manila) Jacobson, Morris K., Rockaway
Beach, N. Y.: 91 brackish-water mollusks from Long Island (215345).
Jacquemin, Mme. J., Papeéte, Tahiti, French Oceania: Marine mollusk from Tahiti (216212).
Jago, John B., San Francisco, Calif.: Amethyst from Pusan, South Korea (217762).
James, Frank H., Metuchen, N. J.: U. S. air post envelope “cut square” (218886).
Jardim Botinico do Rio de” Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 9 plants of
Brazil (215375); 3 phanerogams (215720). Jayaram, Dr. K. C. (See India,
Government of and Zoological Survey of India)
Jedlicka, John F., New York, N. Y.: Chalcopyrite, eudialite, and 2 garnets from Morocco (216607).
Jellison, Dr. William L. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of)
Jenkins, Mrs. Eben, Silver Spring, Md.: 12 envelopes bearing U. 8. stamps with unusual postal markings, 1857— 1873 (216669).
Jerath, Manohar, Corvallis, Oreg.: 20 beetles from Oregon (216788); 750 beetle larvae and adults from America (220021). (See also Oregon State College)
Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de Los Caballeros, Dominican Republic: 100 phanerogams, 4 ferns, 4 grasses from Dominican Republic (215373, 215753).
Johannessen, Carl L., Berkeley, Calif.: 20 grasses collected in Honduras (212747).
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.: (Through Prof. John Strong) 2 lead screws from Rowland’s ruling engine (218478).
* Johnson, Lt. Andrew, Fort Benning, Ga.: U. 8. Military Academy cadet windbreaker (216652).
Johnson, Dr. Carl M. Memorial Laboratory)
Johnson, Dr. and Mrs. Elmer, Dugway, Utah: 19 bee flies from United States (216178).
Johnson, Dr. MartinW. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Johnson, Dr. W. E., Nanaimo, B. C., Canada: 20 mysids from Skeena River drainage, Lake Lakelse, B. C. (214184).
Johnstone, Dr. George R., Los Angeles, Calif.: Grass from California (215101).
Jones '& Lamson Machine Co., Springfield, Vt.: ““Hartometer’ screw thread gage (215781).
Jones, Dr. Arthur W.,”~ Knoxville, Tenn.: 5’parasitic helminth worms from Tennessee (215957).
(See Gorgas

<<<Page: 130>>>

Jones, Mrs. L. Frances. (See Smithsonian Institution)
Jones, Meredith L., Panama City, Fla.: 836 ostracods, types, from San Francisco Bay, Calif. (215689).
Junge, Dr. Carlos, Concepcion, Chile: 64 phanerogams and 15 grasses from Chile (217598, 218396).
Justice, U. S. Department of, Washington, D. C.: (Through General Services Administration) 10 packets of cut
diamonds received through United States Marshal, Brooklyn, N. Y. (215116).
Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Kyushu, Japan: 506 phanerogams, 30 grasses, 42 ferns from the Ryukyu Islands (215846, exchange).
Kahle, Keith, Fort Worth, Tex.: First-flight cacheted cover postmarked Lamar, Colo., 1957 (218464). (See also Central Airlines, Inc.)
Kaicher, Mrs. John J., Lake Charles, La.: 148 mollusks from Florida (218765).
Kansas State College, Manhattan, Kans.: 5 grasses from Kansas (218445).
Karachi, University of, Karachi, Pakistan: (Through Dr. M. Afzal Husain Qadri) 32 marine invertebrates,
mollusk and fishes (216684).
’ Karlovic, John K., Benton Harbor, Mich.: Fungus on strawberry leaves
(214875). Kauffmann, Mrs. R. M., Chevy Chase, Md.: 123 items of costume,
costume accessories, doll, and bed cover (217021, 218673). Kawabe, A., Tokyo, moths from Japan (216591). Keegan, Major H. L., Fort Sam Houston, Texas: 35 mites, including 10 holotypes, from Africa (217263).
Japan: 15
Keen, Dr. Myra. (See Stanford University)
Keeney, Dr. Barnaby C. (See Brown University)
Kelley, Mrs. Beatrice, San Antonio, Tex.: Pair of Sioux chief’s leggings from South Dakota (219049).
Kellum, Medford R., Isle of Moorea, Society Islands: Polynesian adult male skull and skeletal fragments from Paea, Society Islands (218410).
Kennett, Dr. C. E., Berkeley, Calif.: 15 slides of mites, including 4 holotypes, from California (219561).
Kenney, L. S., St. Petersburg, Fla.: (Through Dr. Giles W. Mead) 5 sardines from Tampa Bay, Gulf of Mexico (215360).
Kennon, Rev. Willard L., and Henderson, O. A., Homedale, Idaho: Volcanic tuff containing pyrolusite stains and fossil leaves from Western Idaho (216158).
Kessel, Dr. Edward L., San Francisco, Calif.: 11 parasitic wasps from Alaska
(217370).
Kessel, Prof. Brina. (See Alaska, University of)
Ketterman, Kathy, Bloomington, Ind.: Trilobite from southern Ohio (215706).
Khalaf, Dr. Kamel. (See High
Teacher’s College)
Khalsa College, Panjab University, Amritsar, India: (Through Sarmuckh Singh Bir) 5 ferns from India (219696).
Khan, Rahim Bux, Karachi, Pakistan: 10 used stamps of Pakistan (217664).
Kieser, Ernest H., Toledo, Ohio: Swiss lever watch (218461).
Killip, E. P., Key West, Fla.: Mollusk from off Key West (216565).
Kiln Club of Washington, Washington, D. C.: Covered stoneware jar by Ernie Kim (220063).
Kim, Dr. Chang Whan. (See Korea University) Kimball, Charles P., West Barn-
stable, Mass.: 7 moths from Florida (215701, 216861). Kimball, William P. School of Engineering) Kingdom, George D., Conneaut, Ohio: Program of the American Air Mail Society luncheon on occasion of first-day sale of United Nations 4-cent airmail stamps, 6 4-cent airmail stamps, and airmail postal card (216894). Kinzley, Judd K., Hackensack, N. J.: 10 beetles from Texas and Kansas (217249). Kisch, B. S., Saint Jean-de-Luz, France: 4 left valves of a pelecypod mollusk from Hendeye, France (219349).
(See Thayer

<<<Page: 131>>>

Klapthor, Frank E., Washington, D. C.: Spoonholder, pressed glass cable pattern (216879).
Klawe, Dr. W. L. (See Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission)
Klein, Mrs. Allen J., Dallas, Tex.: Glass kerosene lamp (219566).
Knight, Edward T. (See New York and Honduras Rosario Mining Company)
Knight, Dr. J. Brookes, Sarasota, Fla.: 2 fossil snails from Carter County, Mo. (217264).
Knobloch, Dr. Irving W., El Paso, Tex.: 30 ferns from Mexico (216640, 217404). (See also Michigan State University)
Knull, Dr. J. N. University)
Kobayashi, Prof. Teiichi, Tokyo, Japan: 5 brachiopods, Jurassic of Japan (218432).
Koch, Alice E., Smithtown Branch, L. I., N. Y.: East German postcard franked with 5 stamps of the German Democratic Republic (219988).
Koh, Dang Joe, Seoul, Korea: 14 fishes and 2 mollusks, collected by donor near Brownsville, Tex. (220042).
Kohn, Dr. Allan J., Tallahassee, Fla.: 36 copepods (215584).
Korea, Government of the Republic of: (Through Dr. You Chan Yang) costumes and accessories of a Korean bride and bridegroom (216847).
Korea University, Seoul, Korea: (Through Dr. Chang Whan Kim) 48 wasps from Korea (217632, exchange).
Korean Chindan Society, Seoul, Korea: (Through Marcus W. Scherbacher) 3 Korean dolls dressed in authentic costumes by Mrs. Lee Jun-ye, and a lacquered box by Park Yongt Choo (217336).
Kraemer, Vernon, and Union High School Class, Necedah, Wis.: 117 centipedes and 64 millipedes from Wisconsin (216593, 217255).
Kramer, Karl U. Museum en Herbarium)
Kramer, Wilhelm, Velbert, Western Germany: Descriptive presentation
(See Ohio State
(See Botanisch
card franked with a 50 pfennig stamp, honoring Christian D. Rauch, Berlin sculptor, with first-day cancellation (218887); souvenir program of Velbert Jubilee Stamp Exhibition, and Diesel stamps of Germany (220100).
Kraus, Dr. Otto. (See Senckenberg Museum)
Krauss, N. L. H., Honolulu, T. H.: 216 land and fresh-water snails from Africa, and 1 earthworm (212999) ; 3,444 miscellaneous insects and 3 lots of mollusks from Africa, Spain, Portugal, Mexico, Cuba, and the United States (213890); rat from Tarawa, Gilbert Islands (217910).
Kreager, Paul T. Department of the)
Kriger, S., Washington, D. C.: Nephrite jade elephant from Wyoming (219152, exchange).
Krinov, Dr. E. L. (See Academy of Sciences of the U. 8. S. R.)
Kriser, David B., and Kriser, Sidney, New York, N. Y.: 151 Mauritius stamps (217666).
Kriser, Sidney. B.)
Krombein, Karl V., Arlington, Va.: 324 miscellaneous insects, including one holotype, from the United States (216579) ; wasp from Madagascar, holotype (217633); 62 miscellaneous bees, wasps, insects, including types, from the United States (217916).
Kruta, Dr. T. (See Moravske Museum)
Kummel, Dr. Bernhard, Cambridge, Mass.: 8 brachiopods from Triassic Azizia formation, Libya (217365).
Kuntz, Comdr. Robert E. (See Defense, U. S. Department of)
Kurokawa, Syo, Tokyo, Japan: 55 lichens from Japan (216873, 218028, exchange).
Kusner, John, Sunspot, N. Mex.: Steinhill heliotrope made by Fauth (218472, exchange) ; radio circuit tester,
(See Interior, U. S.
(See Kriser, David
telephone line-tester, ammeter, and galvanometer (219901). Kusnezov, Dr. Nicolas. (See Fun-
dacién Miguel Lillo)

<<<Page: 132>>>

Kutter, Dr. H., Flawil, Switzerland: 19 ants from Europe, including 6 cotypes (216179, exchange).
Kyburz, William, and Hutchings, Harry H., Cali, Colombia: 6 fishes from Colombia (219382).
Kyoto University, Maizuru, Japan: (Through Dr. Tamotsu Iwai) fish from Gulf of Tonkin, off Hainan (218406, exchange).
Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan: (Through Prof. T. Hosokawa) 20 Japanese lichens (215838, exchange); (through Dr. Lyoiti Miyamoto) 95 true bugs from Japan (216482, exchange).
Laboratoire de Paleontologie Animale, Liége, Belgium: (Through M. J. Meijer) 13 echinoids from the Cretaceous, Belgium (214587, exchange).
Lackey, Prof. James B. (See Florida, University of)
Ladd, Dr. Harry S., Washington, D. C.: 400 marine and land mollusks from Delaware (216410).
LaDeur, William, Chicago, Ill.: 2 “Multipost’’ stamp affixing machines (217674).
Laird, Dr. Marshall, Quebec, Canada: Trematode helminth from New Hebrides, type (218514).
Lambert, Mrs. Marjorie F. Museum of New Mexico)
Lambie, Margaret, Washington, D.C.: Doll with china head and cloth body, and doll’s quilt, ca. 1850 (219359).
Lamm, Donald W., Washington, D. C.: Mouse, shrew, and 193 bird skins from Ghana, Gold Coast (216065).
Lampe, Mr. and Mrs. Herman A., Avenel, N. J.: Photograph of port engine of U. 8. armored cruiser Maine (215723).
Landry, Douglas, Washington, D. C.: Cinnabar from Napa County, Calif. (219059, exchange).
Landsperger, Mr. and Mrs. Norman, Greensburg, Pa : Boy’s cotton dress, ca. 1902 (219699).
Lane, Dr. John, Sao Paulo, Brazil: 33 Neotropical flies (216421); 2 biting midges, paratypes, from Panama (216425).
(See
Lane, John E., Atlanta, Ga.: 5,573 miscellaneous insects from Ethiopia (220036).
Lane, M. C., Walla Walla, Wash.: 4 beetles, including 2 holotypes and 2 paratypes, from North America (217921).
Lankester, C. H., Cartago, Costa Rica: Plant from Costa Rica, collected by donor (217398).
Lasseter, Dillard B. and Mrs. Helen S., Chevy Chase, Md.: Dutch table clock, ca. 1670 (216403).
Lasseter, Mrs. Helen S. seter, Dillard B.)
Latham, Mrs. Marté, Wexford, Pa.: Moth larva, cockroach, and grasshopper, from Colombia (215811).
Latham, Roy, Orient, N. Y.: Starfish (214406).
Lattin, Dr. J. D. College)
Laudon, Dr. L. R. University of)
Learnard, R. A., Washington, D. C.: 4 birds in the flesh (216851).
Learned, Col. Henry Dexter, Philadelphia, Pa.: Bronze medal made from propeller of Admiral Dewey’s flagship which served in the battle of Manila Bay, 1898 (218671).
Lee, Sherley Esther, Cincinnati, Ohio: Linen handkerchief edged with handknit lace (211491).
Leech, Hugh B. Academy of Sciences)
Leeds, University of, Leeds, England: (Through Dr. W. A. Sledge) 11 ferns from Ceylon (216638).
Leffler, Ross L. (See Interior, U. S. Department of the)
Lehman, Prof. J. P. (See Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle)
Lehmann, Prof. Arno, Halle-Wittenberg, Germany: 7 used East German stamps, ca. 1957 (216681).
Leigh, Prof. W. Henry, Coral Gables, Fla.: 2 trematode worms, taken from a raccoon in South Florida (216736).
(See Las-
(See Oregon State
(See Wisconsin,
(See California
Lekagul, Dr. Boonsong. (See Saha Karn Bhaet Clinic) Lemon, Mrs. James. (See Thrift
Shop)

<<<Page: 133>>>

Lerner, Jeffrey Earl, Takoma Park, Md.: Junco bird (218857).
Letkemann, Herkus W. V., Washington, D. C.: 2 rats from the Azores (218424).
Levey, Arthur R., Washington, D. C.: Earthworm from Washington, D. C. (217986).
Levey, Harold, Baltimore, Md.: Sphene from Centreville, Va. (217360, exchange).
Levi-Castillo, Dr. Roberto, Guayaquil, Ecuador: 2,520 miscellaneous insects and 1,500 shore flies from Hcuador (217011).
Levin, Dr. Harold L., Oildale, Calif.: 200 Foraminifera from Eocene, Oldsmar limestone, Florida (216440).
Lewis, Dr. John B. (See Bellairs Research Institute of McGill University)
Lewis, Melvin, Cheverly, Md.: Stone maul from Maryland (217008).
Lexington, Village of, Lexington, Ohio: (Through Mayor S. Lowell MclIntire) Gatling gun and carriage, 1903 (220033).
Libbey Music & Distributing Co., Haverhill, Mass.: Rock-Ola music box, 1939 (218840).
Library of Congress, Washington, D. C.: 664 Chinese copper coins from different periods (220031); (through Frederick R. Goff) Italian ‘‘Local’” stamps, perforated and imperforated (218885); (through Dr. Howard Cline) 14 Spanish lusterware plates, Spanish glass vase and ewer (217927).
Lichtor, Dr. Joseph, Kansas City, Mo.: Skull (with lower jaw) and most of spine from Montgomery County, Tenn. (207712).
Lieftinck, Dr. M. A. (See Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie)
Limbaugh, Conrad. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Lincoln, F. F., Washington, D. C.: 8 marine mollusks from Pakistan
(218371).
Lindberg, Dr. Hakan. (See Museum Zoologicum)
Lindquist, Harry L., New York,
N. Y.: 91 booklets of French postage stamps (216273); 64 booklets contain-
ing stamps of,.various French colonies (217443).
Lindsay, Dr. George E. (See Natural History Museum)
Linsley, Dr. E. Gorton. (See California, University of)
Lintz, Dr. Joseph, Jr. (See Nevada,
University of) List, Dr. James C., Muncie, Ind.: 3 snakes (219268).
Little, Carson, Lynchburg, Va.: 4 pairs of shoes, early 20th century (219983).
Little, Mrs. Carson, Lynchburg, Va.: 3 pairs of shoes, early 20th century (216907).
Little, Frank, Jr. (See Florida State University).
Little, J. C., Jr., Lynchburg, Va.: 2 pairs of shoes, ca. 1900 (219982).
Livingston, Eiwood, Naples, Fla.: 5 marine mollusks from near Naples (210698).
Locke, Dr. Louis, Carlsbad, N. Mex.: 21 bats from New Mexico (220089).
Lockheed Aircraft Plant, Burbank, Calif.: Cacheted envelope marking first flight of the U. 8. Air Force XF-—104 jet fighter, July 6, 1954 (216670).
Locklin, Charles, Pontiac, Mich.: 2,000 fossil mollusks from Pliocene, Florida (215388).
Lockwood, Newton L., Blainville, Conn.: Wooden tower-clock movement (213357).
Lohse, Dr. Gustaf, Hamburg, Germany; 2 beetles from Europe (219789, exchange).
Longwood Gardens, Kennett Square, Pa.: (Through Dr. Donald Huttleston) 24 cultivated ferns (218863).
Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, Calif.: 3 phanerogams from Bolivia (217657).
Loughran, Roger H. Charles W., Estate of)
Louisiana Geological Survey, Baton Rouge, La.: (Through Dr. Ann Butler) 73 ostracods from Cretaceous, Bienville Parish, La. (217093).
Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College, Baton
(See Chipp,

<<<Page: 134>>>

Rouge, La.: (Through H. Bruce Boudreaux) 8 slides of mites from Louisiana (216073).
Low, Mrs. George M. Union)
Lowenstein, Tom, East Rockaway, N. Y.: Album containing 316 airmail stamp3 from Albania and Bulgaria (217663); 4,720 stamps and_ postal stationery of Czechoslovakia (217668) ; 593 rocket stamps and covers of various countries (219410).
Lundblad, Byren E., Indianapolis, Ind.: 4 marine mollusks from Florida (214958).
Lyddan, Dr. Robert H. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Lynch, Dr. James E., Seattle, Wash.: 685 branchiopods, including types (216323).
MacCord, Lt. Col. Howard, Laurel, Md.: 66 archeological items from Montgomery County, Md., collected by donor (219120).
MacFadden, Mrs. Fay A., Los Angeles, Calif.: 33 cultivated ferns (215570, exchange).
MacGinitie, Mrs. George E. Defense, U. S. Department of)
MacLeod, E., College Park, Md.: 5 spongilla flies from Maryland (219683).
Macpherson, Dr. J. Hope. (See National Museum of Victoria)
MacSwain, Dr. J. W., Berkeley, Calif.: 3,656 beetle larvae from North America (216437).
Madden, Lloyd C., Rahway, N. J.: (Through John E. Barger) locomotive whistle believed to have been used on the “John Bull” (219365).
Maden Tetkik ve Arama Enstitisi, Ankara, Turkey: Colemanite from the district of Emet, Kitahya, Turkey (215127).
Magruder, Herbert R., Chokoloskee, Fla.: Skull, nearly complete skeleton, and 2 pathological bones (213395).
Maier, Herbert. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Main, W. R., Waretown, N. J.: Rigged model of a New Jersey Garvey (217867).
(See Woman’s
(See
479802—58——_9
Mangor, Elovius. (See Norway, Government of)
Mansueti, Dr. Romeo. (See Maryland Department of Research & Education)
Maraschiulo, Edward, Arlington, Va.: Archeological material from Huaca Marca site, Province of La Paz, Bolivia, excavated by donor (217353).
March, Mrs. Peyton C., Washington, D. C.: 21 military items belonging to the late General Peyton C. March, U.S. A. (216653).
Mariners Museum, Warwick, Va.: (Through Rear Adm. E. W. Sylvester) tomahawk, bayonet, and halberd head (217928).
Marks, Elizabeth N., Brisbane, Australia: 14 mosquitoes from Australia and New Guinea (216418).
Martin, Dr. Edgar J., Pago Pago, American Samoa: (Through Dr. Donald P. Abbott) 5 anemones from American Samoa (215253).
Martin, Miles J. (See General Electric Research Laboratory)
Martinsson, Dr. Anders. leontologiska Institution)
Maryland Department of Research & Education, Solomons, Md.: Chesapeake Buological Laboratory: (Through Dr. Romeo Mansueti) 31 mammals from Maryland (217911).
Masaryk University, Brno, Czechoslovakia: Botanical Institute: (Through Dr. Antonin Vezda) 150 lichens (220055, 220056, exchange).
Masner, Dr. Lubomir, Prague, Czechoslovakia: 8 parasitic wasps from Europe (217257). (See also National Museum, Prague)
Massachusetts Institute of Technolegy, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through J. P. Den Hartog) 6 examples of early power and radio equipment (215398); centrifugal pump (215782); (through Pat Youtz) electron “memory” tube for computers (215401).
Masson, Mary G., Washington, D. C.: 61 birds from the vicinity of Washington, D. C. (215364).
(See Pa

<<<Page: 135>>>

_ Mather, Bryant, Jackson, Miss.: 308 butterflies from Europe and the United States (217960).
Mattingly, Dr. P. F. (See Great Britain, Government of) Mayromoustakis, G. A., Limassol,
Cyprus: 29 bees, including 6 paratypes, from Cyprus (220035, exchange); 324 wasps from Cyprus and Austria (220085, exchange).
Mawson, Sir Douglas. (See BritishAustralian-New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition)
Maximum Card Society of America, New York, N. Y.: (Through Merlin F. Teed) 26 Maximum cards from various localities (216100).
Mazak, Vratislav, Prague, Czechoslovakia: 23 mammals from Czechoslovakia (219294).
McAlpine, D. K. Government of)
McBride, Mrs. Cora Robsin, Abington, Pa.: Photograph of William McKinley, made before he occupied the White House (219143).
McCall, Francis J., Washington, D. C.: 3 cacheted envelopes from the American Philatelic Society Convention in Tampa, Fla., with special magenta cancel (217275); full sheet of 100 Easter seals, 1958 (219140); 8 first-day ceremonies programs and miscellaneous philatelic material (220093).
McCarthy, Mrs. Eileen M., Arlington, Va.: Woman’s small red felt hat, ca. 1954 (220092).
McCarty, Col. and Mrs. W. A., Alexandria, Va.: 32 marine mollusks and 3 corals from Okinawa, Ryukyu Islands (216409).
McClintock, Dr. Elizabeth. ifornia Academy of Sciences)
McDermott, F. A. (See Institute of Jamaica)
McDonald, W. W., Kuala Lumpur, Malaya: (Through Mrs. Ernestine B. Thurman) 18 mosquitoes from Malaya (219752).
McFadden, Dr. William D., Middleport, N. Y.: 3 ground stone artifacts and a potsherd from the St. Lawrence valley area (215083).
(See Australia,
(See Cal-
McGaha, Dr. Young John. Mississippi, University of)
McGrath, P. B. (See Cuba California Oil Company)
McGuinness, Albert, Butte, Mont.: Ilvaite from South Mountain, Idaho (215802, exchange).
MeciIntire, Mayor S. Lowell. Lexington, Village of)
McKenney, Ashton N., and Mills, Barbara Jean (address unknown): 2
(See
(See
pelecypods, Miocene, Westmoreland County, Va. (216602). McMichael, Dr. Donald F. (See
Australia, Government of)
MeVaugh, Dr. Rogers. igan, University of)
Mead, Dr. Giles W., Washington, D. C.: 16 skeletons of Japanese fishes (220043). (See also Interior, U. S. Department of the; Beebe, Dr. William; and Kenney, L. 8S.)
Meen, Dr. V. B. tario Museum)
Mehra, Prof. P. N. University)
Mehring, Dr. Arnon L., Hyattsville, Md.: 3 marine mollusks from Europe (211955).
Mehta, Dhirubhai, Bombay, India: 31 postage and 7 official stamps of India (216811); first-day cover with 1957 ‘‘Freedom Struggle’’ stamps (217387); 4 first-day covers of various postage stamps of India (219610).
Meijer, M. J. (See Laboratoire de Paleontologie Animale)
Meisel, Henry O., Clintonville, Wis.: 16 postmarked envelopes and postcards (220099).
Melis, Prof. Antonio, Florence, Italy: 44 thrips from Italy (217376).
Melvin, Jeneve M. (See Young, Mrs. Ernest C.)
Mencken, August, Baltimore, Md.: 3 artifacts and cast of a bone carving
(See Mich-
(See Royal On-
(See Panjab
(219743). Méndez, Dr. Ramon, Maracay, Venezuela: 2 bats from Venezuela (214181).
Merriam, Dr. C. W., Menlo Park, Calif.: Echinoid from the Lower Mis

<<<Page: 136>>>

sissippian, Nevada (219478). (See also Interior, U. S. Department of the)
Merwin, Bertrand H., Washington, D. C.: Weasel from Prince Georges County, Md. (220049).
Metzger, Garth L., Washington, D. C.: Radio receiver of World War I (218450).
Meyer, Dr. Fred G., Beltsville, Md.: 61 plants (217925).
Miami, The University of, Coral Gables, Fla: (Through Prof. Luis R. Rivas) 1,185 fishes from Australia, collected by Col. John K. Howard (216823, exchange). Marine Laboratory, Miami, Fla.: (Through Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.) isopod and 4 hermit crabs (219073); (through Dr. John HE. Randall) 135 marine invertebrates (210805) ; (through Dr. Gilbert L. Voss) 2 crustaceans from a tuna fish caught off Bimini (212769); 5 sponges, 20 copepods, 2 shrimps, sea anemone and isopod (217096).
Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor, Mich.: Land snail, type, from Michoacan, Mexico (215767, exchange); fern from Mexico (215775, exchange); 1,128 phanerogams, 8 grasses, and 21 ferns from Sumatra and Queensland (217405, exchange) ; 177 phanerogams, 20 grasses, 9 ferns, collected in Cuba by Dr. Grady Webster (218865, exchange); 44 begonias and bromels from Mexico
(219509); (through S. S. Attwood) Dodge marine steam engine, 1906 (219149); (through Dr. Rogers Mc-
Vaugh) fern from Mexico (215841, exchange); 6 ferns from Mexico, collected by James Maysilles (216636); (through Dr. Robert R. Miller) 20 fishes, including 10 paratypes, from Georgia and Mexico (219158, exchange); (through Dr. W. R. Murchie) 8 earthworms from Washtenaw County, Mich (217192); (through Dr. Warren H. Wagner, Jr.) 9 ferns from Michigan (216639). Michigan State University, East Lansing, Mich.: 2 phanerogams and 13 ferns from Mexico (217894, 219978) ; (through Prof. Roland L. Fischer) 94 flies from North and South America (219622, exchange) ; (through Dr. Irving
W. Knobloch) 21 ferns from Mexico (216870).
Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt.: Collection of physical apparatus (216217).
Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington, D. C.: Arnold Miles collection of political Americana (217442); stoneware snuff jar (220131).
Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, Ind.: (Through P. 8. Shupert) one-a-day multiple vitamins in apothecary jar (218456).
Miller, Carl F., Washington, D. C.: Centipede, snake, and 3 salamanders from Alabama (216572).
Miller, Gus. (See Republican National Committee Headquarters)
Miller, H. A., Alexandria, La.: 2 sets of script used by members of Joint Task Force 132 on the Island of Japtan (219316).
Miller, H. W., Santa Clara, Cuba: 80 marine mollusks from Costa Rica, Mexico, and Cuba (207015).
Miller, J. M., Mebane, N. C.: 3 State Bank bills (219315).
Miller, Mahlon, New York, N. Y.: 1 gorceixite from the Boungon River, French Equatorial Africa (216611).
Miller, Dr. Robert R. (See Michigan, University of)
Miller, Roger, Washington, D. C.: 100 brachiopods, Upper Devonian, Missouri (217617).
Miller, Mrs. Roy E., San Jose, Calif.: Black patent leather shoes with high top of cloth (217393); marine mollusk from Santa Monica, Calif. (217612); 2 skeins handspun linen yarn and wooden bobbin (220058).
Miller, Walter A., Watsontown, Pa.: (Through 8. George Cannard) section of wooden water pipe from the original system of the White Deer Valley Water Co., Milton, Pa. (219148).
Miller, Cmdr. Walter B., Point Mugu,
Calif.: 4 fresh-water mussels from Arkansas (215698). Mills, Barbara Jean. (See McKen-
ney, Ashton N.) Mineralogisch-Petrographisches Institut, Heidelberg, Germany: (Through

<<<Page: 137>>>

Prof. Paul Ramdohr) helvite from Yxsjéberg, Sweden (215707, exchange).
Ministério da Agricultura, Divisao de Geologia e Mineralogia, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: (Through Dr. Paulo Erichsen de Oliveira) 8 marine mollusks from Brazil (216004).
Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria, Caracas, Venezuela: 27 phanerogams, 8 grasses, and legumes, from Venezuela (215377, 215694, 215850, 216379); 2 phanerogams from Venezuela collected by Dr. L. Aristeguieta (216628); (through Dr. Volkmar Vareschi) fern from Venezuela (214069).
Minnesota, University of, Muinneapolis, Minn.: Long-billed marsh wren from Mexico (212837); (through Dr. Henry J. Griffiths) 75 fresh-water snails from Minnesota (216060).
Mississippi, University of, University, Miss.: (Through Dr. Young John McGaha) 50 fishes from Mississippi (216619).
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Mo.: 10 plants and 10 fragments of phanerogams from Panama (181718, 183591); 50 phanerogams, 69 ferns collected in Japan by L. A. Charette (215368, exchange); 2 ferns, types, from South America (215776, exchange).
Miyamoto, Dr. Lyoiti. (See Kyushu University)
Moncure, Mrs. M. Wallace, Richmond, Va.: 100 marine mollusks from Buckroe Beach, Virginia (219586).
Monnig, Oscar E., Fort Worth, Tex.: Slice of the Richland, Navarro Co., Tex. meteorite (218962, exchange).
Monod, Dr. Theodore. (See Institut Frangais d’ Afrique Noire)
Monson, Milton W., Maywood, IIL: Early dynamo electric machine (217658).
Montero O., Prof. G., Temuco, Chile: 2 phanerogams from Chile (216874).
Montreal Botanical Garden, Montreal, Canada: 3 plants from Ecuador (218860).
Moore, Dr. Walter G., New Orleans, La.: 227 branchiopods (217680).
Moran, William E., Falls Church, Va.: Skull of an undetermined amphibian
from the lower Permian, near Ned, Pa. (216376).
Moravske Museum, Brno, Czechoslovakia: Cordierite, bavenite, and 2 triphyllites from Czechoslovakia (216050, exchange); (through Dr. Petr Cerny) 4 minerals from Czechoslovakia (217833, exchange); (through Dr. T. Kruta) 5 minerals from Czechoslovakia and Silesia (218822).
Morgan, J. R. (See General Electric Company)
Morris, Capt. Emerson E., Salisbury, Md.: 10 etchings by Pierre van der Borcht, illustrating New Testament texts (216385).
Morris, Mrs. George Maurice, Washington, D. C.: Cup and saucer, Italian, ca. 1775 (220126).
Morrison, Dr. Joseph P. E., Washington, D. C.: 18,100 land, freshand brackish-water, and marine mollusks from eastern United States and parasitic worm; also 710 insects, 3 reptiles, 521 crustacea and bats (215488); 6 beetles, Monroe County, Fla., and a spider, Herndon, Va. (216578); blackwidow spider, weevil larva, and 2 beetles (217250); 55 shotgun shells (218470).
Mrose, Mary, Arlington, Va.: Ajoite and shattuckite from Arizona (217437). (See also Behier, Jean).
Mulet-Descamps, Sr. Augusto. Guatemala, Government of)
Mulvey, Mrs. Ida R., New York, N. Y.: 2 hand-knit lace collars, 19th century (215854).
Mumford, Thomas. (See Workingmen’s Institute, Library of)
Munves, Hy, New York, N. Y.: Embossed U. S. envelope (216095).
Murchie, Dr. W. R. (See Michigan, University of)
Murdock, Dr. H. M. (See Sheppard and Enoch Pratt Hospital)
Murillo, Dr. Luis Ma, Bogota, Colombia: (Through Dr. José Cuatrecasas) 4 land mollusks from Colombia (218621).
Murnane, Major T. G. U. 8. Department of)
(See
(See Defense,

<<<Page: 138>>>

Murray, Dr. Gover E., Baton Rouge, La.: 8 Foraminifera, Upper Cretaceous of Mexico (220050).
Murray, Mrs. Sonia J., Biloxi, Miss.: 3 land snails from Mississippi (216293).
Murray, William, University Park, Md.: Young worm snake, Chesapeake Beach, Md. (219249).
Musée Royal de Congo Belge, Tervuren, Belgium: (Through Dr. P. L. G. Benoit) 27 shore flies, including 17 paratypes, from Africa (219689, exchange).
Musec Argentino de Ciencias Naturales, Buenos Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr. Esteban Boltovskoy) 123 Recent Foraminifera from off the coast of Brazil (215770, exchange).
Museo Civico de Storia Naturale de Genova, Genova, Italy: (Through Dr. Delfa Guiglia) 2 biting midges, cotypes, from Sarawak (219685, exchange).
Museo de Historia Natural “Javier Prado,’’ Lima, Peru: 22 grasses from Peru collected by Dr. Ramén Ferreyra (218911); 35 phanerogams, 10 grasses from Peru (219542).
Museo di Storia Naturale “‘G. Doria,’’ Genova, Italy: (Through Dr. Enrico Tortonese) 22 fishes from Italy (210707, exchange).
Museo Ignacio Agramonte, Camaguey, Cuba: (Through Dr. Mario Aquiles Betancourt) large leatherback turtle from Camaguey, Cuba (210822, exchange).
Museo Spallanzani di Reggio Emilia, Reggio Emilia, Italy: (Through Dr. Leopoldo Codazzi) 17 birds from Italy (219292).
Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 4 phanerogams from Brazil (218444). Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi,
Belém, Pard, Brazil: 8 phanerogams from Brazil (215719).
Museum d’ Histoire Naturelle, Geneva, Switzerland: (Through Dr. Ch. Ferriére) 7 ants, cotypes, from Australia (219953, exchange).
Museum G. Frey, Tutzing, Germany: (Through Dr. E. Haaf) 86 beetles from Europe and Latin America (213574,
exchange); 97 beetles, including 66 species and 16 paratypes (216076, exchange); 358 weevils of Europe
(217763, exchange).
Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France: (Through Prof. J. P. Lehman) 2 casts of human skulls, cast of fish, 3 casts of amphibians, all fossil, and 11 fossil fish (217571, exchange); (through Dr. Gilbert Ranson) mollusk from Malaya (217863, exchange).
Museum of the City of New York, New York, N. Y.: (Through Dr. W. M. Williamson) model of apparatus illustrating method employed in taking down obelisk of Thothmes III known as “Cleopatra’s Needle” at Alexandria, Egypt, and transporting it to New York in 1880 (218880).
Museum of New Mexico, Santa Fe, N. Mex.: (Through Mrs. Marjorie F. Lambert) skeletal collection from Quarai, New Mexico (220019).
Museum Zoologicum, Universitatis, Helsinki, Finland: (Through Dr. Hakan Lindberg) 8 Hemiptera from Newfoundland and Labrador (215667, exchange).
Muzeul National de Istorie Natural “Grigore Antipa,’? Bucharest, Roumania: (Through Drs. M. Bacesco and F. Por) 218 copepods and 26 sea anemones (217076, exchange).
Myers, Dr. George. (See Stanford University)
Nagabhushanam, R., Visakhapatnam-3 8. India: (Through Akella N. Sastry) 76 marine mollusks from near Waltair, India (213925).
Nakai, Zinziro. (See Tokai Regional Fisheries Research Laboratory)
Nash, Mrs. Ruth Rhodes Morey, Phoenix, Ariz.: (Through Ernest Eisele) album of memorabilia relating to Joseph Francis and his Life-Car (220134).
National American Woman Suffrage Association, Melrose, Mass.: (Through Mrs. Guy W. Stantial) metal seal of donor association and seal of Leslie Woman Suffrage Commission, each

<<<Page: 139>>>

with two dies for impressing seal on paper (216389).
National Association of Wool Manufacturers, New York, N. Y.: (Through John P. Stevens, Jr.) 8 wool fabrics representing various weaves and textures (218576).
National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C.: 248 phanerogams, 58 grasses, 5 ferns from Merewether Crator, Labrador (215082); (through John Scofield) lava from the Fayal Islands (219883); (through M. Woodbridge Williams) 4 spiders and 1 beetle from the United States and 14 miscellaneous insects from Trinidad (220121).
National Herbarium, Sydney, Australia: 7 phanerogams, 2 ferns, 1 cryptogam (219139, exchange).
National Museum, Manila, Republic of Philippines: 115 phanerogams, 8 grasses, 13 ferns from Philippine Islands (215847); (through Fernando G. Dayrit and George E. Jacobs) 4 marine mollusks from Palawan, Philippines (217854).
National Museum, Prague, Czechoslovakia: (Through Dr. Lubomir Masner) 5 parasitic wasps from Czechoslovakia (216071, exchange).
National Museum of Southern Rhodesia, Bulawayo: 7 birds from Southern Rhodesia (217196).
National Museum of Victoria, Melbourne, Australia: (Through Dr. J. Hope Macpherson) 2 marine mollusks from South Australia and Victoria (216867, exchange).
National Research Council, Washington, D. C.: (Through Robert W. Strecker and Kyle R. Barbehenn) 22 mammals and 1 bird from the Caroline and Marshall Islands (217465) ; (through Dr. Cadet Hand) 1,006 marine invertebrates and 3,550 mollusks (205840).
National Science Foundation. (See Agriculture, U. 8. Department of)
National Science Museum, Tokyo, Japan: 185 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 13 ferns (219691, 219980, exchange).
National Speleological Society, Washington, D. C.: 2 cave crickets, 2 milli-
pedes, 1 crayfish, 2 isopods, 2 amphipods and salamanders (171718).
Natural History Museum, San Diego, Calif.: (Through E. P. Chace) 22 crustaceans (218623); (through Dr. George E. Lindsay) 12 marine mollusks from west coasts of Mexico, Nicaragua, and Panama (166506).
Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria: 32 grasses from Afghanistan (206581); 300 cryptogams (218868, exchange).
Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm, Sweden: 9 phanerogams from Colombia (172096); 29 lichens from Sweden (216378, exchange) ; 87 phanerogams, 96 grasses, 65 ferns from Ecuador collected by Dr. E. Asplund (219447, exchange).
Natuurwetenschappelijke Studiekring voecr Suriname en de Nederlandse Antillen, Utrecht, Netherlands: (Through Dr. P. Wagenaar Hummelinck) parasitic nematode worms from the iguana of the West Indies, Venezuela, and Surinam (216360).
Nazareth College, Rochester, N. Y.: (Through Sister Francis Solano) 5 amphipods from Lake Ontario (216269).
Neave, S. L., Vancouver Island, B. C., Canada: 38 pseudoscorpions, 10 leeches, 29 amphipods, and 1 lot nematode worms (211221).
Needham, R. M., Lancaster, Ohio: 2 first-day covers from Oklahoma and District of Columbia (216887) ; cacheted first-day cover of United States horticulture stamp (220097).
Neeman, James, Garberville, Calif.: Fern from Agua Caliente County Park, Calif. (219355).
Neill, M. Agnes, Washington, D. C.: 4 embroidered shawls, and piece of gold costume jewelry (219981).
Netherlands, Government of, The Hague: Administration des Postes, des Telegraphes et des Telephones: 14 mint stamps and first-day covers of the Netherlands (216091, 219890); 13 stamps, covers, and postal cards of the Netherlands (217025). Netherlands Antilles Post Office Department, Willemstad, Curagao: (Through Dr. R. Roe

<<<Page: 140>>>

lofs) 5 first-day covers of Netherlands Antilles commemorating the International Geophysical Year Dutch Geodetic Station and Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Tracking Station (217855).
Nevada, University of, Reno, Nev.: (Through Dr. Joseph Lintz, Jr.) brachiopod, holotype, Mississippian of Nevada (216854).
Newcomb, Mr. and Mrs. Richard C., New London, Conn.: Chauncey Jerome hanging clock, and a hanging clock of Connecticut origin (220073).
Newcombe, Elisabeth W. combe, Helen R.)
Newcombe, Helen R. and Elisabeth W., Washington, D. C.: Victorian furniture and accessory materials from family home at Thomaston, Maine (215795); 29 items of costume, costume accessories, and objects of decorative art, 19th and early 20th centuries, and 3 samples of textiles (219565).
New England, University of, Armidale, N.S. W., Australia: (Through Dr. Kenneth Campbell) 13 specimens and 13 casts of brachiopods from the Mississippian, Australia (215704).
New Haven Bank, New Haven, Conn.: Rare copper plate used to engrave money 125 years ago and 3 sheets of uncut, unsigned bills made from the plates (216664).
New Mexico Bureau of Mines and Mineral Resources, Socorro, N. Mex.: (Through Ming-Shan Sun) santafeite on Jurassic Todilto limestone from Grants, N. Mex. (217618).
New Netherlands Coin Co., Inc., New York, N. Y.: 7 United States “Hard Times Tokens,” ca. 1837 (219995).
New York and Honduras Rosario Mining Company, Honduras, Central America: (Through Edward T. Knight) wire silver from Honduras (216373).
New York Botanical Garden, New York, N. Y.: 40 South American plants (187904, 214670); 90 phanerogams and 19 grasses from Venezuela, collected by Dr. Bassett Maguire (219975, 219976, 219977); 420 phanerogams, 1 grass,
(See New-
collected by Dr. Bassett Maguire and others in South America (216077, exchange); 2 Usnea from Mozambique, collected by C. H. Rothfuss (217802); 146 type photographs of ee (219885, exchange).
Nichols, Terrell, Bowie, Tex.: 9 echinoids from the Tertiary of Hone, (218699).
Nickell, L. G., Brooklyn, N. ¥.: Azolla fern (216869).
Nicol, Dr. David. (See Robert C., and Weber, Jay A.).
Nicolay, Lt. Col. S. S., San Francisco, Calif.: 827 moths from Okinawa (217595).
Nogle, Harold, Port Arthur, Tex.: 9 wood specimens from Texas and 1 each from Mexico, Brazil, Uruguay, India and Africa (214703, exchange).
Nolan, Thomas B. (See Interior, Department of)
North Carolina, University of, Morehead City, N. C.: Institute of Fisheries
Bright,
Research: (Through Dr. Austin B. Williams) 50 parasitic copepods (217875).
Northern Light Grange No. 6, Winterport, Maine: (Through Mrs. Edmund Clement) 13 U. 8. postal cards, 1884— 1907 (216101).
Northern Virginia Stamp Club, Arlington, Va.: 2 first-day covers (216094); (through J. F. Carpenter) 2 first-day covers of U.S. stamps (220130).
Norway, Government of, Norwegian Postal Department: (Through Elovius Mangor) 2 postage stamps and 2 stamped envelopes of Norway (219374); (through Torfinn Oftedal) 14 Norwegian stamps (215954).
Nucker, Delmas. (See Interior, U.S. Department of the)
Nurney, Mrs. Geraldine L., San Jose, Calif.: 2 examples of official correspondence of the Department of the Interior (219989).
Nussbaum, Walter N., Tel Aviv; Israel: 3 first-day covers from Israel (216679, 220066).
Oaks, Orville A., Wilmette, Ill.: 2 woods from South Africa (218876, exchange).

<<<Page: 141>>>

Ober, Lewis D., Pittsburgh, Pa.: 3 leeches from Lakeland, Fla. (215287).
Oboler, Arch, Studio City, Calif.: Aragonite from San Luis Obispo County, California (216606, exchange); ludlamite from Idaho, and wulfenite from Arizona (219970, exchange); wulfenite from Arizona, gypsum, and native copper in rock from Oklahoma (220082).
Obraztsov, Dr. N., Seal Cliff, N. Y.: Moth from Japan (216436).
Oftedal, Torfinn. (See Norway, Government of)
Ognjenovic, Government of)
Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio: (Through Dr. J. N. Knull) 48 beetles from the United States (220022).
Oklahoma, The University of, Norman, Okla.: (Through Dr. Carl D. Riggs) 143 fresh-water mussels from Lake Texoma, Okla. (216962).
Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, Okla.: 115 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 5 ferns from Mexico (218581); 90 phanerogams, 30 grasses (218756, exchange).
Old, William, Jr., Norfolk, Va.: 2 sea urchins, 2 hermit crabs, spiny lobster, and crab from Australia (216320); 8 brachiopods from Lingayan Gulf, Republic of Philippines (219124).
Olsen, Dr. Leland S., Lincoln, Nebr.: 4 nematode worms, types, from Nebraska (213935).
Olsson, Axel A., Coral Gables, Fla.: 5 marine mollusks from Panama (212547).
Oman, Dr. Paul W. (See Agriculture, U.S. Department of)
Opportunity Shop, Washington, D. C.: (Through Mrs. Lewis Heck) mourning dress, late 19th century; lace jumper, ca. 1928, and fashion magazine, 1878 (219567).
Oregon State College, Corvallis, Oreg.: (Through Manohar Jerath) 16 U. S. scarab beetles (216862); (through Dr. J. D. Lattin) 8 plant bugs from Oregon (217015).
Osburn, Mrs. Raymond C., Columbus, Ohio: Crayfish, bryozoan collections, including 145 type lots; also micro-
Vi. (See Yugoslavia,
film of library and bibliography, and 8 manila envelopes of original manuscripts of the late Dr. Raymond C. Osburn (208837).
Osgood, Ida A., Osprey, Fla.: Wedding suit, ca. 1858, worn by donor’s great grandfather (217233).
Osterreichische Forstliche BundesVersuchsanstalt, Lienz, Austria: (Through Dr. Karl E. Schedl) 2 beetles cotypes from Idaho (214652, exchange).
Overman, C. O., Birch Tree, Mo.: Cryptogam (214443).
Overman, William, Arlington, Va.: Pyrophyllite from Hillsboro, N. C. (217613).
Packard, Fred M., Washington, D. C.: Nest of Bewick’s wren from Virginia (216559).
Padova, University of, Padova, Italy: (Through Dr. Giorgio Dal Piaz) 50 brachiopods, Permian and Eocene of Italy (219204).
Padre Camargo. (See Padre Huertas)
Padre Huertas and Padre Camargo, Bogotdé, Colombia: (Through Dr. José Cuatrecasas) 34 phanerogams from Colombia (216633).
Page, Mrs. Grace H. M., (deceased): (Through Provident Tradesmen’s Bank & Trust Co.) gold-filled chain necklace with attached white-on-black enamel cameo pendant, and matching earrings (211759, bequest).
Paleontologiska Institution, Uppsala, Sweden: (Through Dr. Anders Martinsson) 50 ostracodes, Silurian of Sweden (213911, exchange).
Palmer, Dr. Ernest J., Webb City, Mo.: 40 grasses from Missouri (213512).
Palmer, Mrs. Theodore S., Washington, D. C.: 15 United States and foreign notes (219569).
Panjab University, Amritsar, India: (Through Prof. P. N. Mehra) 20 ferns from India (215234).
Pappas, Paul E., Columbus, Ohio: 11 frogs from Delaware County, Ohio (217103).
Paradiso, John L., Washington, D. C.: 8 small mammals from Maryland and Virginia (220088).

<<<Page: 142>>>

Parker, Cedron, Portsmouth, Va.: (Through William N. Parker) wheel odometer, 19th century (216402).
Parker, Sgt. Paul K., New York, N. Y.: Bat from Terceira Island, and 4 rats from the Azores (218422, 219127).
Parker, William N. (See Parker, Cedron)
Paul, Mrs. Grace. Myrtle H.)
Paul, Mrs. Myrile H. (deceased): (Through Mrs. Grace Paul) embroidered counterpane made about 1833 (217382).
Pavlovsky, Academician E. N. (See Academy of Sciences of the U.S. S. R.)
Payne, Russ, Niles, Mich.: Passenger pigeon (219290).
Pearson, H. R., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 151 miscellaneous butterflies and moths, 53 miscellaneous beetles (217256).
Peck, Mrs. E. M. (See Fleetwood Cover Club)
Pendleton, Samuel T., Charlottesville, Va.: 6 marine mollusks from New Jersey (220040).
Penn, Dr. George H., New Orleans, La.: 3 crayfishes, types, from Louisiana (219777).
Pennsylvania, University of, Philadelphia, Pa.: 2 plants (215710); 5 phanerogams, 44 grasses, 1 fern (219132, exchange). University Museum: Restorations of Florisbad skull and part of lower jaw of Wadjak (217354).
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pa.: (Through Rudy W. Becking) 34 lichens from Pennsylvania (216760); (through Dr. 8. W. Frost) searab beetle (216431); (through Prof. Rustum Roy) ramsdellite from MonroeTener mine, Minnesota (220122).
Perkins, Dr. Robert F., Houston, Tex.: Echinoid from the Clayton limestone, Fort Gaines, Ga., collected by Dr. R. W. Barker (217361).
Pessagno, Emile Anthony, Jr., Chevy Chase, Md.: 181 Foraminifera, Cretaceous to Lower Tertiary, MayaguezYauco District, Puerto Rico (215771).
Peterson, Mendel L., Washington, D. C.: Receipt with 2-pence imprinted revenue stamp from Great Britain
(See Paul, Mrs.
(216677); 21 U. S. naval rating badges, World War II (217771); rare Swedish Goertz daler (220029); 18th-century English copper token advertising mail coach service (220094).
Peterson, Mendel L., Jr., Arlington, Va.: 60 fresh-water mollusks from Virginia (216564).
Pettingill, Dr. Olin Sewell, Wayne, Maine: (Through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) bones of carrion hawk (217028).
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., New York, N. Y.: (Through James H. Fitzgerald) Geritol in apothecary jar (218452).
Phelan, Thomas F., Yuma, Ariz.: 2 pelecypods and_ colonial coral, Pliocene, Coyote Mountains, Imperial County, Calif. (217161).
Phelps, Dr. William H., Caracas, Venezuela: Bird (215695).
Philip, Dr. C. B., Hamilton, Mont.: 5 horseflies from Africa and Australia (219966).
Philippbar, Frank. (See American Society of Mechanical Engineers)
Philippines, University of the, Quezon City, Republic of Philippines: 918 phanerogams, 702 grasses, 114 ferns, 1 cryptogam from the Philippine Islands collected by Dr. José Vera Santos (216240).
Phillips, A. R., Flagstaff, Ariz.: 22 phanerogams, 4 grasses, 11 ferns from Okinawa (215848).
Phillips, Leonard G., Washington, D. C.: 4 wedding and trousseau dresses, 19th and 20th centuries (216393).
Pickel, Dr. Bento J., Sa&io Paulo, Brazil: 14 grasses from Brazil (197944).
Pierce, Dr. E. Lowe. (See Florida, University of)
Pierce, Lt. John, New York, N. Y.: 16 items of Naval uniforms (219858, exchange).
Poland, Government of, Warsaw: (Through ARS Polona) 25 unused postage stamps and 14 first-day covers (219987); 16 stamps and covers of Poland (216888).
Pollak, Mrs. Virginia M., New York, N. Y.: Wooden doll and Chimu period gold dummy mask from Peru, part of the

<<<Page: 143>>>

Arther Morris collection (218409, 219444).
Pollock, E. O., Cannonsburg, Pa.: 2 fresh-water crabs from Sudan, Africa (217984).
Por, Dr. F. (See Muzeul National de Istorie Natural ‘‘Grigore Antipa’’)
Porter, Dr. C. L. (See Wyoming, University of)
Porter, Mrs. F. B., Jr., Falls Church, Va.: 8 filet lace doilies, a length of lace insertion, and 4 examples of embroidery by Schiffli embroidery machine (219602).
Portman, Roland W. (See Idaho, University of)
Post, Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather, Washington, D. C.: Large silver basting spoon made by James Wilkes, London, 1727 (215978); tapa cloth from Upolu, Samoa (216405); wooden Indian princess (219737); jade vase carved from a single piece of mottled light green jadeite (219971).
Post Office Department, Washington, D. C.: 940 foreign postage stamps released by the Universal Postal Union (217673); (through Greever Allan) 381 stamps released by the Universal Postal Union (215265); 3-cent mint stamp of Canal Zone (217095); 1,589 mint postage stamps and postal stationery (218522); (through J. M. Bell) 33 U. S. commemorative and _ special delivery stamps (217945); (through Franklin R. Bruns, Jr.) Aladdin kerosene lamp, and 3 U. 8S. mail bags (217769, 219312); roll of U. S. experimental coil stamps (220101); (through R. E. Fellers) 30 mint copies of U. S. stamps (215572).
Pough, Dr. Frederick. (See American Museum of Natural History)
Powell, Mrs. Lala Hopkins, Forest Hills, N. Y.: 5 items pertaining to David Crockett and descendants, diamond engagement ring, and _ goldplated mechanical pencil (215855).
Pratt, Dr. Harry D. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of)
Pratt & Whitney Company, Inc., West Hartford, Conn.: Set of Hoke precision
gage blocks, 2 deep-hole drills, and a camlock-lathe-spindle nose (220074).
Price, Dr. Derek J., Washington, D. C.: 4 pieces of mid-19th-century chemical glassware (218474, exchange).
Price, Roger D., Minneapolis, Minn.: 2 adult mosquitoes and 3 slides of larvae, North America (219556).
Prince, John E., Washington, D. C.: Fox typewriter (219759).
Pritchard, Mary K., Washington, D. C.: Batfish from Florida (219495).
Privitera, C. A., St. Paul, Minn.: 5 millipedes and 1 centipede from Minnesota (215827).
Proctor, George R., Castries, St. Lucia, B. W. I.; 2 ferns from St. Lucia (220053).
Provenzano, Anthony J., Jr. Miami, University of)
Provident Tradesmen’s Bank & Trust Co. (See Page, Mrs. Grace H. M.)
Provincial Museum, Victoria, Canada: 39 lichens from Canada (216834) ; (through Dr. A. F. Szezawinski) 199 lichens from British Columbia (217069, 217801).
Puerto Rico, University of, Mayaguez, P. R.: (Through Dr. Juan A. Rivero) 2 crabs from Puerto Rico (209901).
Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind.: 72 grasses from Colorado (212245).
Pybas, Mrs. J. C., Oklahoma City,
(See
Okla.: Sterling silver match box (217019).
Quadri, Dr. M. Afzal Husain. (See Karachi, University of)
Quattlebaum Fund, W. Daniel, Smithsonian Institution: Steamboat
pane thought to be the earliest marked piece of Wheeling lacy pressed glass recorded (220064).
Queensland, University of, Brisbane, Australia: (Through Dr. Dorothy Hill) 19 brachiopods from the Permian of Australia (216600, exchange); (through Dr. T. E. Woodward) 4 true bugs paratypes, from Australia (216015); 5 plant bugs from Australia, including paratypes (216775, exchange).
Quigley, Mrs. Mary M., Silver Spring, Md.: 25 mites, 235 miscellaneous insects — from Forest Glen, Md. (220084).

<<<Page: 144>>>

Rabb, Dr. George B. Zoological Park)
Ragland, Mrs. Ida Pitt, Washington, D. C.: Drawn needlework, 1886, and cardboard embroidery in letter case, 1845 (217379).
Rains, Mrs. Edith, Washington, D. C.: Pair of doll’s high shoes (217394).
Ramdohr, Prof. Paul. (See Mineralogisch-Petrographisches Institut)
Ramnarain Ruia College, Bombay, India: (Through Prof. P. G. Rangnekar) 10 copepods, 6 isopods, and 20 barnacles (215415).
Randall, Dr. John E., Miami, Fla.: 21 fishes from Tropical Pacific, collected by donor (216295). (See also Miami, University of)
Raney, Dr. Edward C. University)
Rangnekar, Prof. P. G. narain Ruia College)
Ranson, Dr. Gilbert. (See Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle)
Rasetti, Dr. Franco, Baltimore, Md.: 45 brachiopods from the Pennsylvanian of Utah (216855).
Rausch, Dr. Robert. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Department of)
Rawis, John L., Vienna, Va.: 6 facsimiles of Confederate paper money (216085); dress white coat of Chief Yeoman, U. 8. Coast Guard 1930-1945 (217384).
Reed, Dr. Edward B. Institute of North America)
Rehder, Anne, Washington, D. C.: Sora rail (219549).
Rehn, J. A. G. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Reifsnider, Mrs. Bertha, Hudson, Ohio: United States Flag, ca. 1890 (219255).
Reinhard, Prof. H. J., College Station, Tex.: 2 flies, paratypes, from United States (216580, exchange); 5 flies from Utah, California, and Mexico, including 2 paratypes (217631, exchange). (See also Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas)
Reisch, Dr. Donald J. (See Southern California, University of)
(See Chicago
(See Cornell
(See Ram-
(See Arctic
Republican National Committee Headquarters, Washington, D. C.: (Through Gus Miller) 139 items of 1956 Republican campaign material (217385).
Rhode Island, University of, Kingston, R. I.: Narragansett Marine Laboratory: (Through Dr. Robert J. Conover) 10 copepods from Charlestown Pond (214334).
Rhodes, Linwood, no address: Lamprey eel from South River, Virginia (216594).
Rhodes University, Grahamstown, South Africa: (Through Dr. J. L. B. Smith) 3 paratypes of fish from Seychelles Islands (218579, exchange); 3 fishes, including 1 paratype, from off Pinda, South Africa (219159, exchange).
Rice, William H. (See Castleton China, Inc.)
Richard Dendy and Associates, London, England: (Through Richard Dendy) replica of barber-surgeon’s sign of 1623, made by donor (216064).
Richardson, Prof. Davis P. Arkansas, University of)
Richardson, James B., Cambridge, Md.: Builder’s half-model of a “Hooper Island” type fishing launch (216645).
Richtmyer, Dr. Nelson K., Bethesda, Md.: (Through Edward H. Turner) precision weights, made by Paul Bunge (219307).
Riedel, Dr. William R. (See Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Riggs, Dr. Carl D. (See Oklahoma, University of)
Riggs, Lowry, Rockville, Md.: Red aracari (219291).
Rijksherbarium, Leiden, Netherlands: 14 phanerogams and 1 grass, Malay Archipelago (216872, exchange) ; (through Dr. R. A. Maas Geesteranus) 20 lichens from Europe (217691, exchange).
Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Netherlands: (Through Dr. M. A. Lieftinck) 3 bees from New Guinea (217372).
Ring, Bernard, Brooklyn, N. Y.: 3 cacheted envelopes marking the 2nd
(See

<<<Page: 145>>>

Annual Convention of the American First Day Cover Society (216189).
Ripley, Dr. Dillon. (See Yale University)
Rivas, Luis R. University of)
Rivero, Dr. Juan A. Rico, University of)
Roback, Dr. Selwyn S. (See Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)
Roberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore Md.: Early 20th-century curtains, valances, tie-backs, braid, and tassels from New York City house (217274); 116 items of costumes and accessories of the late 19th and early 20th century (218468, 218890).
Roberts, Kenneth L., Fairhaven, Va.: 2 water snakes from a tributary to Accotink Creek, Fairfax County, Va. (220083).
Roberts, M. F., White Plains, N. Y.: 23 fishes from aquaria (216235).
Robertson, Mrs. Alice Q., Lakewood, Ohio: “Stonewall” Jackson spectacles and coin purse (218883).
Robertson, Robert. University)
Robinett, Brig. Gen. Paul M., Mountain Grove, Mo.: Officer’s field saddle of French make, and accessories (217930).
Robinson, Cora E., Schenectady, N. Y.: Olds gasoline engine, 4 gasoline engine magnetos, and _ hay-needle (216224).
Robinson, Mrs. Nell Windsor, Colchester, Ill., and Windsor, Benjamin Rutherford, Arlington, Va.: Doublewoven coverlet and hand-woven linen sheet (215853).
Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Institution: Specimen of the Kimble County meteorite found south of Noxville, Kimble County, Tex. (210811); 4 hambergite crystals and 1 lepidolite mica on feldspar, San Diego County, Calif. (214556); 10 minerals from Norway (214940); 11 minerals from Czechoslovakia (215391); 2 uraninite specimens, Saguache County, Colo. (215396) ; muscovite from Spruce Pine District, N. C. (215414); 17 minerals, including magnesite, dolomite, strontianite, and
(See Miami, The
(See Puerto
(See Harvard
pyrite, from Oberdorf, Austria (215671); quartz from Minas Geraes, Brazil; beryl from North Groton, N. H.; hiddenite from Hidden, N. C.; tourmaline from Elba, Italy (215739); 19 minerals from Germany (216190); 6 minerals from Japan, Czechoslovakia, Morocco, Norway, and Austria (216274) ; davidite and brannerite from South Australia, 4 aragonites from Spain (216275) ; wulfenite from Glove Mine, Amado, Ariz. (216337); chrysoprase and green spodumene crystal from Brazil (216441, 218846); 4 minerals from New Jersey, Ontario, Madagascar, and British Columbia (216490); 4 voglites from the White Canyon No. 1 mine, San Juan County, Utah (216604); 103 minerals from various parts of the world (216610, 217707, 217843, 218435, 219197, 219298); 16 minerals from the Belgian Congo (216831); danburite from Mogok, Burma (216857); skutterudite from AliNuhen, Algeria, and rhodochrosite from Butte, Mont. (217614); 2 osumilite specimens from Japan (217615); 2 euxenite specimens from Encampment, Wyo. (217616); molibdosodalite and natrodavyne from Italy (217720); 3 groutite crystals from Minnesota, phillipsite from Sicily, and miccolite from Germany (217923); 13 specimens of gold from Washington (217816); fluellite, liskardite and woodwardite, from England; aragonite from Sicily (218033) ; hummerite from Colorado (218034); colusite from Montana, and cordierite from New Hampshire (218431); 2 ajoites from Arizona (218434); huebnerite from Silverton, Colo., and pyrite with enargite from Butte, Mont. (218436) ; 3 huntites from South Australia (218893); pectolite from Australia, 2 lesserites from California, and hinsdalite on enargite from Montana (219026); 37 minerals from Shinkolobwe, Belgian Congo (219194); 84 minerals from Australia (220052). Roelofs, Dr. R. Government of the) Roloff, E., Karlsruhe, Germany: 32 fishes from southeast Asia (219351)
(See Netherlands,

<<<Page: 146>>>

Ronne, Capt. Finn, Mohican Hills, Md.: Young emperor penguin (218858).
Roonwal, Dr. M. L. (See Zoological Survey of India)
Root, John C., San Francisco, Calif.: 3 mollusks (217581).
Rose, Mrs. Louisa, Rapid City, S. Dak.: Confederate flag, 2 rent receipts, 1864, military assignment letter, 1862, and 3 pieces of Confederate currency (215760).
Ross, Gordon, Chiapas, Mexico: 20 phanerogams, 1 grass from Mexico (219736).
Ross, Mrs. Helen, Millburn, N. J.: 3 first-day covers (216890).
Ross, Dr. Reuben J., Jr. (See Interior, U. 8. Department of the) Ress, Capt. W. G.
Marcel D.)
Rossiter, Dr. Goeffrey G. (See United States Educational Foundation in Australia)
Rosso, Sam, Hattiesburg, Miss.: 1 calcareous alga from Australia (215708).
Roth, Dr. Louis M., Natick, Mass.: 400 cockroaches from Massachusetts (217371).
Rowley, Elmer B., Glens Falls, N. Y.: Calcite from near Clemons, N. Y. (220080).
Roy, Prof. Rustum. vania State University)
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey, England: 27 phanerogams (217304, exchange).
Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, Canada: (Through Dr. V. B. Meen) 11 minerals from Ontario (218428, exchange).
Rozman, Robert S., Arlington, Va.: 27 insects from Virginia (216413).
Rubtzov, Dr. J.. Leningrad, U.S. 8. R.: 263 black flies from Russia (217914, exchange).
Ruhoff, Ted, Washington, D. C.: Microlite crystal from the Rutherford # 2 mine, Amelia, Va. (216614, exchange).
Rumsey, Mrs. Ellen Masch, Washington, D. C.: 8 uniform items, U. §. Naval Nurse Corps, 1930 through World War IT (220061).
(See Arrouet,
(See Pennsyl-
Runyon, Robert, Brownsville, Tex.: Phanerogam and 5 grasses from Texas (215235).
Ryng, Dr. S. (See Academy of Sciences of Byelorussia)
Ryukyus, University of the, Okinawa, Ryukyus Islands: (Through Dr. Jack C. Elliott) 62 phanerogams, 7 grasses, 3 ferns from Okinawa (215849).
Sabrosky, Dr. Curtis, Washington, D. C.: 50 insects from United States (216586); 449 heleid flies, comprising
52 species, chiefly from Michigan (219750). (See also Agriculture, U. S. Department of)
Safie, J. M., Rye, N. Y.: 4,701
stamps and proofs of Belgium, France, and French Colonies (217312); 1347 Belgian stamps and post cards of Switzerland (219322).
Saha Karn Bhaet Clinic, Bangkok, Thailand: (Through Dr. Boonsong Lekagul) 74 miscellaneous insects (217225).
St. Alban’s Opportunity Shop, Washington, D. C.: 11 pieces, costumes and accessories, 20th century (216390).
Saint Meinrad Archabbey, Saint Meinrad, Ind.: (Through Rev. Fabian Frieders) 22 crustaceans (213702, exchange).
Sanders, Miss Dortha, San Bernardino, Calif.: Waltham watch, hunting model (218459).
Salter, William M., Washington, D. C.: Miniature book (216083).
Sanchez, Mrs. Eleanor B., Miami Beach, Fla.: Double-woven jacquard coverlet (216648).
Sanderson, Dr. Milton W. (See Illinois Natural History Survey Division)
Sargent, F. H., Falls Church, Va.: 18 mosses from California (215370).
Sastry, Akella N. (See Nagabhushanam, R.)
Sattler, Klaus, Schiitzenkuhle, Germany: 16 moths from Europe (217864, exchange).
Savicz, Prof. V. P. (See Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S. R.)
Sbarbaro, Dr. Camillo, Spotorno, (Savona) Italy: 38 lichens from Europe (219302, 219884, 220057, exchange).

<<<Page: 147>>>

Scala, Dr. Norman P., Washington, D. C.: Items owned and worn by donor and owned and used by his father, Francis Scala, Leader of the U. 8S. Marine Corps Band from 1855 to 1871 (217772).
Schedl, Dr. Kar! E. (See Osterreichische Forstliche Bundes-Versuchsanstalt)
Schell, Dr. Stewart C. University of)
Scherbacher, Marcus Korean Chindan Society)
Scheven, J. (See Zoologisches Institut der Universitat Miinchen)
Schevill, Dr. William E., Woods Hole, Mass.: Crab from can labeled “Baby clams, Japan’ (213499). (See also Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)
Schilke, Oscar G., Beacon Falls, Conn.: 22 Colonial, Continental, and State Bank Notes (219996).
Schiller, Dr. Everett L. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. 8. Department of)
Schmidt, Dr. and Mrs. David, Sarona, Wis.: 105 marine and land shells from Florida (220041).
Schmitt, Dr. Waldo L., Washington, D. C.: 633 marine invertebrates, 225 mollusks, 1 cryptogam from Cuba, 2 rats, and 6 fishes (213537); 66 crustaceans (216322).
School of Trepical Medicine, Calcutta, India: (Through Dr. Purnendu Sen) 40 biting midges from India (219686).
Schouteden, Dr. Henri. Congo Museum)
Schroeder, William. University)
Schwartz, Dr. Albert, Reading, Pa.: 73 shrimps from Cuba (219774).
Schwartz, Dr. Frank J., Solomons, Md.: 15,897 fresh-water fishes from West Virginia (213714).
Schwartz, Mrs. Samuel, Paterson, N. J.: State china plate purchased during administration of President Benjamin Harrison, and soup plate of the same design as the Royal Purple state
(See Idaho,
W. (See
(See Belgian
(See Harvard
china purchased during administration of President Abraham Lincoln (215805).
Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne G., Scarsdale, N. Y.: 107 marine mollusks from Keuador and the Indo-Pacific region (210941, 215411).
Scofield, Jchn. graphic Society)
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through E. Brinton) 3 euphausiids from the Pacific (216325) (through Conrad Limbaugh) 982 miscellaneous marine invertebrates from Manzanillo, Mexico, La Jolla, Calif., New Providence, Bahamas, and Baja, Calif. (212963, 213947); (through Dr. E. W. Fager) 190 amphipods (219070); (through Dr. Martin W. Johnson) copepod, holotype (217191); (through Dr. William R. Riedel) 3 samples of deep-sea cores containing Radiolaria taken by the Swedish Deep-Sea Expedition in tropical Pacific waters (215122, exchange) ; 9 sample cores from mid-Pacific dredgings containing Radiolaria (216013, exchange); 7 slides of Radiolaria (216463).
Scudder, G. G. E. (See University Museum, Oxford, England)
Sen, Dr. Purnendu (See School of Tropical Medicine)
Senckenberg Museum, Frankfurt am Main, West Germany: (Through Dr. Otto Kraus) centipede from El Salvador, paratype (216434).
Senevet, Dr. G., Algiers, Algeria: Mosquito, paratype, with associated larval and pupal skins, from French Guiana (219690).
Servicio Geolégico, Buenos Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr. Arturo J. Amos) 5 brachiopods from the Tertiary, Argentina (215773, exchange).
Servicio Philatelico de Correos. Spain, Government of)
Seto Marine Biological Laboratory, Sirahama, Wakayama-Ken, Japan: (Through Dr. H. Utinomi) 10 polychaetes, 2 gorgonians, and 7 gorgonian photos (213918, gift-exchange).
Setzer, Dr. Henry W., Washington, D. C.: Norway rat from Maryland (220024).
(See National Geo-
(See

<<<Page: 148>>>

Shannon, Mrs. Caroline Wolfley. (See Bisell, Mrs. Eleanor Wolfley)
Shannon, James V., Jr. (See Squibb, E. R., & Sons)
Shelton, L. R. (See Health, Education, and Welfare, U. S. Department of)
Shepherd, Mrs. Catherine B., Arlington, Va.: Cultivated phanerogam (218438).
Sheppard and Enoch Pratt Hospital, Towson, Md.: (Through Dr. H. M. Murdock) Erlanger sphygmoscope, 3
microtomes, and electric fan (217934). |
Sherman, Arthur, Royal Oak, Mich.: Gatling battery gun mounted on field artillery carriage (215560, exchange).
Sherrard, Mrs. Edwin A., Hanover, N. H.: 171 bryophytes from Alaska (219300).
Shilstone, Herbert M., Jr.. Houston, Tex.: 7 postage stamps of Barbados (217395).
Shupert, P. S. (See Miles Laboratories, Inc.)
Shure, Sidney N., Evanston, IIL: 19 mint sheets of 1750 postage stamps of Israel first issue (217662).
Shuster, Dr. Carl N. (See Delaware, University of)
Sieker, William E., Madison, Wis.: 2 moths from Wisconsin (216070).
Signorelli, Gaspar, Brooklyn, N. Y.: Envelope with Butterfield Overland Mail centennial cancel and special black cachet (220096).
Simmonds, Dr. N. W. (See Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture)
Sinclair Oil and Gas Company, Tulsa Okla.: (Through Allan P. Bennison) foraminifer from the Lower Cretaceous of Italian Somalia (219483).
Sister Francis Solano. (See Nazareth College)
Sivik, Frank, Savannah, Ga.: Wasp from the Philippines (216590).
Skulsky, Rev. Father Josef, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Tapestry with woven millennial emblem of Ukrainian independence (219368).
Slattery, Richard Gates, Rockville, Md.: 1,482 specimens of archeological material from 23 states and the District
of Columbia, collected by donor (217907).
Sledge, Dr. W. A. (See University of Leeds)
Sleepy Hollow Restorations, Tarrytown, N. Y.: English creamware jug, commemorating the contributions of Washington Irving and in celebration of the 175th anniversary of his birthday (219048).
Smalley, Alfred E. University of)
Smallwood, Mrs. Penelope, Falls Church, Va.: Bob-white and mourning dove (218414, 219129).
Smit, F. G. A. M. Britain, Government of)
Smith, Dr. Allyn G. Academy of Sciences)
Smith, Dr. J. L. B. University)
Smith, Lawrence W., Washington, D. C.: Board specimen of geronggang showing compression failures (220104).
Smith, Dr. Lyman B., Washington, D. C.: 201 phanerogams from Brazil (215716).
Smith, Dr. Marion E., Amherst, Mass.: Aberrant mosquito from Maine, 17 mosquitoes from Massachusetts (217259, 217920).
Smith, Major Robert B. W., Silver Spring, Md.: Skin of a bird (219872).
Smith, Mrs. William, Hyattsville, Md.: Skull of bottlenose porpoise from Piankatank River, Matthews County, Va. (216568).
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.: (See also following funds: Bredin, Canfield, Casey, Chamberlain, Hickemeyer, Quattlebaum, Roebling, Springer, and Walcott.) Deposits: 19 philatelic items from various members of the staff (216893); 4 engorged ticks and 16 others in various stages removed from bull frog (219553); optical apparatus for demonstrating Newton’s rings, Hoffman’s voltameter, and chemical glassware, (219902); newborn polar bear found in sealed can in west stacks of library (220023); (through Mrs. L. Frances Jones) 1055 United States and foreign postage stamps, received by the
(See Georgia,
(See Great (See California
(See Rhodes

<<<Page: 149>>>

library during the year (220028); (through Dr. Alexander Wetmore) 41 modern foreign coins in silver and copper from England, French West Africa, Portugal, South Africa, and Southern Rhodesia; 4 foreign bank notes from Austria, Germany, and French West Africa, collected by Dr. Wetmore (215920); 200 skeletons of birds from Southern Rhodesia (216852, 217356, 217606, 220039); 30 birdskins from southern Colombia (217909). Found in Collections: Radio transmitter receiver, Western Electric, Type CW-—938 (215397) ; 2 birds (216557); 8 specimens of the Canon Diablo, Arizona, meteorite (216608) ; fragments of the Estherville, Iowa, meteorite (216612); U. S. Army radio communications equipment (217778); mathematical instruments, ballistic plotting apparatus (218475); 2 Navy radio receivers and radio transmitter (218873); plaster cast of head and shoulders of Osceola, Seminole leader, made shortly after death and a 2-piece mold of the face of that cast made in Anthropological Laboratory in 1920 (219121); 52 items of scientific apparatus (219305); gas and water meters, calipers (219306); Ayrton & Perry 19th-century ammeter (219364) Made in Laboratories: Replicas of 5 electrical instruments (215726); model of Hargreaves’ Spinning Jenny from original patent specifications of 1771 (216646); model of Mississippi River side-wheel steamer Grey Eagle, Jeffersonville, Ind., 1892 (219310); 22 exhibit panels and models for health exhibit in the Hall of Health (219508); 719 photographs of plants, including 616 phanerogams, 14 grasses, 1 fern, and 88 cryptogams (220123). Astrophysical Observatory: Chronograph, ca. 1885 (217937); Lens, fluid (218479); 17 pieces of scientific apparatus, electrical, astrophysical, ete. (219145). Bureau of American Ethnology: Archeological and human skeletal material from Nebraska, excavated by River Basin Survey archeologists in the summer of 1948 (216556); late 18th-century wine bottle (216667); miscellaneous archeo-
logical objects (219119). River Basin Surveys: Archeological material excavated from Buffalo Pasture site in Oahe Reservoir, Stanley County, South Dakota (217608, 218413); (through Dr. Robert L. Stephenson) 21 land and fresh-water mollusks from Oregon, Wyoming, and South Dakota (214120, 217212). U. S. National Museum: Purchased: Cast of coelacanth fish (211756); transparent woman, mounted on pedestal with individually lighted organs; including standard metal chassis on rollers, tape recorder, control panel, 3 continuous tape panels, and 2 master transcription tapes (213386); model of 1886 Daimler motor carriage (215812); 879 phanerogams, 23 grasses, 10 ferns (215837, 216078); exhibit of ‘‘Development of Human Teeth” from birth to age 12 (215757); 11 exhibit models including fetuses, human heart in cylindrical block, giant tooth, Dickinson birth models, from egg to embyro, and endocrine glands (215862); collection of electrical and physical apparatus (216300); replica of Portuguese Mariner’s Compass, ca. 1711 (216644); iron planer, made by John H. Gage, ca. 1837 (217241); 29 mammals from Colombia (217847); 2 original Nazca ceramic ointment jars from Peru (217936); Edison phonograph, movement No. 1756 (218879); components of second-floor chamber from original portion of Story House, Essex, Mass., ca. 1670 (219013); Victorian period confectioner’s shop interior, furnishings and accessories (219141); 2 Galilean telescope replicas from Italy (219196); Gothie Verge-and-Foliot clock (219308) ; exhibit illustrating the making of a wood engraving (219450); diagrams from Clay-Adams anatomy charts, a series of drawings explaining the function of the biceps and triceps; human skeleton, articulated; human eye and ear exhibits (219496); 8 filmstrips in color explaining the nature, function, and care of the human body (219497); replica of an [Etruscan votive tablet depicting the uterus (219498); lifesize plastic model, mounted and _ lighted,

<<<Page: 150>>>

explaining digestive system (219499); slide projector, automatic, in steel cabinet with screen and 2 extra slideholding discs (219505); “See and Hear Your Heart Beat” exhibit, mounted in a panel (219506) ; “Your Heart’’ exhibit, showing the functioning of the heart (219507); Borghesi astronomical clock (219760); medicine bottle found in Richards Tavern, West Roxbury, Mass., ca. 1675 (220062); 16-millimeter Vitascope camera and projector (220128); magazine for Nordenfelt machine gun (220132). National Museum: 13,453 phanerogams, 1302 grasses, 306 ferns, 34 cryptogams from Brazil, collected by Dr. Lyman B. Smith and Dr. Amaro Macedo Sr. Exmo (211690, 215717); 447 mammals, 92 birds, 4 reptiles, 4 amphibians, 1 skeleton of beaked whale from Accomac County, Va., Calvert County, Md., Burkes Garden, Va., and Vero Beach, Fla., collected by John L. Paradiso, Bernard R. Feinstein, Dr. Henry W. Setzer, and Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., (215490, 217912, 218423, 219128); 311 phanerogams, 18 grasses, 2 ferns, 29 cryptogams from Florida and Isle of Pines, Cuba, collected by Dr. E. P. Killip (215711, 215836); 188 cryptogams from Gaspé National Park, Quebec, Canada, and cultivated fern from California, collected by Conrad V. Morton (215714, 215844); 44 insects from Colombia collected by Dr. M. A. Carriker, Jr., in 1951-52 (216069); 4 skeletons of an undetermined tritylodont reptile and a partial skeleton of a crocodile from the Kayenta formation, Arizona, in the western Navajo Indian Reservation, collected by Dr. David H. Dunkle in May 1957 (216375); 33 Paleolithic flints from Ras _ Beirut, Lebanon, collected by Dr. Ralph Solecki, September 1956 (217009); 149 lichens from Virginia, collected by Dr. Mason HK. Hale (218437); 203 phanerogams, 87 grasses, 1 fern, 2 wood specimens, from Okinawa, Vietnam and Ts’aoshan, Taiwan, collected by Dr. Egbert H. Walker (218539, 220071); 39 mammals from West Virginia, collected by John
79802—58———10
C. Lingebach (220048). National Zoological Park: 19 mammals (220046).
Snow, Dr. W. E. (See Tennessee Valley Authority)
Society of Washington Printmakers, Arlington, Va.: (Through Prentiss Taylor) color lithograph (219449),
Sogandares-Bernal, Franklin, Lincoln, Nebr.: 5 isopods, 7 copepods (216183).
Sohn, I. G., Washington, D. C.: 1 ostracod, paratype, from the Middle
Devonian of western New York (215772). Solecki, Dr. Ralph, Washington,
D. C.: 17 land and fresh-water mollusks from northern Iraq (219744).
Solem, Dr. Alan G. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Soper, Ellis C., Bogoté, D. E., Colombia: 20 invertebrate fossils from the Mesozoic, Colombia (218920).
Sorenson, Andrew, Pacific Grove, Calif.: 2 deep-water marine mollusks from near Santa Cruz Island, California (218752).
Soukup, Dr. J., Lima, Peru: 32 phanerogams, 2 cryptogams, and fern from Peru (217982).
South African Institute for Medical Research, Johannesburg, South Africa: (Through W. Till) 30 lice, 127 nymphs and 50 alcoholic specimens from South Africa (218844) ; (through Dr. F. Zumpt) 150 lice from Africa (220119).
South Carolina, University of, Columbia, S. C.: (Through Prof. A. P. French) historical physical and _ electrical apparatus (215563).
South Dakota State College, Brookings, 8. Dak.: (Through Dr. Ernest J. Hugghins) 12 copepods from South Dakota (215826).
Southern California, University of, Los Angeles, Calif.: Allan Hancock Foundation: (Through Dr. Donald J. Reisch) 9 polychaete worms, including holotype and 5 paratypes (217030).
Southwestern Louisiana Institute, Lafayette, La.: 2 plants from Bolivia (217653, 218862).
Spain, Government of, Madrid, Spain: (Through Servicio Philatelico de Cor

<<<Page: 151>>>

reos) 2 first-day covers of stamps of Spain (220103).
Spencer, David L. U. S. Department of the)
Spencer, Prof. G. J., Vancouver, B. C.: Barn swallow nest with several hundred fly puparia from British Columbia (217252).
Speyer, E. R. Government of)
Spilman, Ted J., Washington, D. C.: 13 centipedes, 3 millipedes, 2 insects from Louisville, Ky. (216576); 3 millipedes and 6 centipedes from Rag Mountain, Va. (216860).
Springer, Dr., Saarbruecken, Germany: International Reply Coupon, 50 Pfennig (217948).
Springer, Dr. Victor G. (See Florida State Board of Conservation)
Springer Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 22,950 invertebrate fossils, mainly echinoderms, comprising Strimple collection (216603).
Squibb, E. R. & Sons, New York, N. Y.: (Through James V. Shannon, Jr.) Engran Term-Pak in apothecary jar (218454).
Stack, Joseph B., New York, N. Y.: 3 rare uncut sheets of Colonial American notes, one early bank note printer’s trial sheet, and 16 uncut sheets of State Bank notes, 23 vignettes for State Bank note issues (220070).
Stack, Morton M., New York, N. Y.: 642 bank notes from various countries, 2 American stock certificates, 1 North Carolina bond, and 1 broadside, dated 1729, concerning currency regulations in Frankfurt, Germany (219998).
Stahl, Barton, Washington, D. C.: Early radio loudspeaker and German military radio receiver of World War II (217777).
Stahlberg, Carl, Longview, Wash.: Medal struck by the Swedish Government commemorating the life of John Erickson (214953).
Staiman, Dr. J., Baltimore, Md.: 21 ophthalmic instruments (216897).
Stallings, Don D., and Turner, Dr. R. C., Caldwell, Kans.: 14 butterflies
(See Interior,
(See Great Britain,
from the United States, (217246).
Stalnaker, Dr. Paul R., Houston, Tex.: Hypodermic syringe with case, bevel-edged bistoury, and medicine case (216104).
Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.: 1813 phanerogams, 260 grasses, 34 ferns from Alaska collected by Dr. Ira Wiggins and associates (216627, gift-exchange); 541 phanerogams, 42 grasses, 7 ferns, from Arctic Alaska and Mexico (219134, gift-exchange); (Through Dr. Walter C. Brown) 79 lizards from Kapingamarangi Atoll, Caroline Islands, collected by Dr. William A. Niering in 1954 (217850); (Through Dr. Robert R. Harry) 13 parrot fishes from the Pacific (214695, exchange); (through Dr. Myra Keen) 2 brackish-water mollusks from Mexico (218854, exchange); (through
paratypes
Dr. George Myers and Dr. Kirk Strawn) fish (216119, exchange); (through Dr. Ira L. Wiggins) 2 ferns (217075).
Stanley-Brown, Mrs. Rudolph, Washington, D. C.: 26 World War I water colors and pen drawings by Rudolph Stanley-Brown (216896).
Stannard, Dr. L. J. (See State Natural History Survey Division)
Stanners, J. A., New London, Conn.: Specimen sheets of 3and 10-dollar bills issued during the early 1800’s (219997).
Stantial, Mrs. Guy W. (See National American Woman Sufirage Association)
Stapleton, Martin L., Indiana, Pa.: 2 parasitic nematode worms from bird collected in Crawford County, Va. (215797).
Starkey, J. Albert. High School)
Starr, Floyd T., Philadelphia, Pa.: 100 foreign stamps including inverts (217671).
Stary, Dr. Petr. Academy of Science)
Stasek, Charles, Berkeley, Calif.: 13 amphipods, holotype and paratypes, from Moss Beach, Calif. (214799).
State Board of Conservation Marine Laboratory, St. Petersburg, Fla.:
(See Vineland
(See Czechoslovak

<<<Page: 152>>>

(Through Robert F. Hutton) 268 barnacles, isopods, amphipods, crabs, shrimp, and other invertebrates, 1 brachiopod (209649).
State Natural History Survey Division, Urbana, Ill. (Through Dr. L. J. Stannard) 4 male thrips from Illinois and Ontario, Canada (217373, exchange).
Stein, Al, Washington D. C.: Laos 20-cent piece, dated 1952 (219887).
Steinitz, Dr. H. (See Hebrew Uni-
versity)
Stephenson, Dr. Robert L. (See Smithsonian Institution)
Stetson University, Deland, Fla.:
(Through Dr. Ezra Allen) skull of fossil whale (2147338).
Stevens, John P., Jr. (See National Association of Wool Manufacturers)
Steyskal, George, Grosse Ile, Mich.: 4 flies, including paratype, from Michigan (216416).
Stickel, Dr. William H., Bowie, Md.: Albino spotted salamander and 2 copperheads from near Patuxent Wildlife Refuge (219973).
Stoddard, Herbert, Thomasville, Ga.: 9 birds (216561).
Stokes, Dr. W. Lee, Salt Lake City, Utah: 2 brachiopods from the Mississippian of Utah and Idaho (219123).
Straub, Paul A., New York, N. Y.: Gold 500-piaster piece struck in 1938 by King Farouk of Egypt (215857); 8 Holy Roman Empire gold coins, Austrian Abbey Treasure (216386); rare Austrian taler dated 1877 (216660); rare taler struck 1719 at Berlin, in the name of Friedrich Wilhelm I of Prussia (219314).
Strawn, Dr. Kirk, Beaumont, Tex.: 3,398 fishes from Florida, 21 miscellaneous marine invertebrates, sponges, tunicates (216597). (See also Stanford University)
Strecker, Robert W. Research Council)
Strelak, Joseph B., Waukegan, IIL: 33 first-day wrappers with United States and Canadian stamps (216885, 219990).
(See National
Strickland, Charles E., Boston, Mass.: 17th-century New England batten door (217389).
Strong, Prof. John. kins University)
Summers, Dr. Francis, Davis, Calif.: 7 mites from North America (216424).
Sun, Ming-Shan. (See New Mexico Bureau of Mines and Mineral Resources)
Sundstrom, Gus. Department of the)
Sutcliffe, Dr. W. H., Jr. muda Biological Station)
Sutton, Harriet, Washington, D. C.: Gray-cheeked thrush (216560).
Svenson, Dr. Henry K., Washington, D. C.: 36 North American plants (219131).
Swanson, Irving, Washington, D. C.: Obsidian in perlite from Superior, Ariz. (217359, exchange).
Swanson, Dr. Leonard E. ida, University of)
Sybertz, Mrs. Alice, Valrico, Fla.: 17 cultivated ferns (218916).
(See Johns Hop-
(See Interior, U.S.
(See Ber-
(See Flor-
Sylvester, Rear Adm. E. W. (See Mariners Museum) Szezawinski, Dr. A. F. (See Pro-
vincial Museum)
Talbot, Dr. Frank H., Cape Town, South Africa: 2 fishes from Zanzibar (216164, exchange).
Talbot, Mary, St. Charles, Mo.: 30 ants of North America (217377); 125 ants of North America (218568, exchange).
Talmadge, Robert R., Willow Creek, Calif.: 19 marine mollusks from South Africa, Mozambique, Canary Islands, and Australia (219525).
Tambakis, Michael, Latrobe, Pa.: 4 gold coins (220069).
Tappan, Carl E., Boise, Idaho: 3 fossil cyprinid fishes, Brownlee Dam site near Robinette, Oreg. (218850).
Tattersall, Dr. Olive, Hayling Island, England: 330 mysids, including 17 cotypes, from Sierra Leone, West Africa (216968).
Tauler, Antonio, Holguin, Cuba: (Through U. S. Information Agency)
U. S. National flag, ca. 1912 (212401).

<<<Page: 153>>>

Taylor, John M., Villanova, Pa.: Stamps, 747 19th-century Philippines, 10,900 early-Uruguay, and 1,020 Salvador (217667); 498 stamps of Uruguay, including blocks and covers, from a Washington album (217675) ; 22 stamps, special printing of the Philippines, 1907 (220067).
Taylor, Prentiss. (See Society of Washington Printmakers)
Tedrow, Richard L., Chevy Chase, Md.: Exceptionally well-preserved large fossil clam, Miocene, Chesapeake Bay area, Maryland (219297).
Teed, Merlin F. (See Maximum Card Society of America)
Tenery, Lt. Col. John H., Fort Sam Houston, Tex.: Echinoid from the Cretaceous, Denton County, Tex. (215382).
Tennessee Valley Authority, Wilson Dam, Ala.: (Through Dr. W. E. Snow) 26 fresh-water and land snails from Tennessee and Alabama; and 7 marine invertebrates (209455).
Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.: (Through Dr. Clark Hubbs) 12 fishes from Mexico (217268); (Through Dr. Marshall R. Wheeler) 18 vinegar flies from South America (217013).
Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, Tex.: (Through Dr. Willis G. Hewatt) 7 sea anemones, 3 isopods, 24 crabs, 6 stomatopods from Sabine Pass area, Tex. (215264).
Texas Research Foundation, Renner, Tex.: 29 grasses collected by Dr. Donovan 8. Correll in Texas (217165).
Thayer School of Engineering, Hanover, N. H.: (Through William P. Kimball) 2 railroad bridge models (218462).
Thieret, Dr. John W., Chicago, IIl.: 15 phanerogams, 28 grasses, 1 fern (218440).
Thomas, Dr. Leo A. (See Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts)
Thomson, James M., Jr., (See Allen, Frederick Morse)
Thomson, Dr. John W. consin, University of)
Thornton, Dr. Ian W. B. (See Hong Kong, University of)
(See Wis-
Thrift Shop, Washington, D. C.: (Through Mrs. James Lemon) 4 women’s dresses of the 1920’s (216396).
Thurman, Mrs. Ernestine B., College Park, Md.: 14 North American fleas (216420); skin of giant squirrel from Thailand and skulls of 4 chinchillas (220044). (See also McDonald, W. W.)
Tibbetts, Ted., Moab, Utah: 28 land and fresh-water mollusks from Texas and bat from Utah (216567, 217536).
Tierney, James Q., Accokeek, Md.: 10 articles of equipment and supplies from Capt. Shackleton’s Camp, McMurdo Sound, Antarctic (216651).
Till, W. (See South African Institute for Medical Research)
Timberlake, Prof. P. H., Riverside, Calif.: 2 bees from Mexico (216130). (See also California, University of)
Tipton, Capt. Vernon J., St. Louis, Mo.: 2 mites from Indiana (215703). (See also Defense, U. S. Department of)
Titschack, Dr. E., Hamburg, West Germany: 15 thrips from Germany (216417, 217374).
Tobolewski, Dr. Zygmunt (See Uniwersytet Poznanski)
Todd, Ruth. (See Hiltermann, Dr. H., and Interior, U. 8. Department of the)
Tokai Regional Fisheries Research Laboratory, Tokyo, Japan: Sardine Resources Division: (Through Zinziro Nakai) 32 amphipods from East China Sea and Tusima Straits (217584).
Tokyo, University of, Tokyo, Japan: Botanical Institute: 8 ferns, 4 grasses, 5 phanerogams and 11 flowering plants from Japan (215779, 218447, 219564, exchange).
Tomiyama, Dr. Itiro, Misaki, Japan: 2 zoanthid specimens from Sagami Bay, Japan (217187).
Tomkins, Ivan R., Savannah, Ga.: 200 brackish-water snails from Georgia (217042).
Tomlinson, Jack T., San Francisco, Calif.: 3 barnacles from Plymouth, England (218560); barnacle, paratype from Japan, collected by H. Utinomi (219117).
Toronto, University of, Toronto, Canada: 49 lichens from Canada, collected

<<<Page: 154>>>

by Roy F. Cain (216158); 54 Canadian lichens (218612).
Torres, Dr. Belindo Adolfo. (See Universidad Nacional de La Plata)
Tortonese, Dr. Enrico. (See Museo di Storia Naturale ‘‘G. Doria’’)
Traub, Lt. Col. Robert, Kuala Lumpur, Malaya: 27 slides of mites, paratypes from collection of Dr. R. F. Lawrence (216571).
Treasury, U. S. Department of the, Washington, D. C.: Bureau of Customs: 150 Russian gold coins (215616). Bureau of Engraving and Printing: 16 proof pulls from Confederate States of America and State Bank note plates (219993). Bureau of the Mint: 2 Japanese silver 100-yen pieces struck in 1957 at the Osaka Mint (218814); (through Mrs. Rae V. Biester) 30 miscellaneous coins and 2 medals (218942). Internal Revenue Service: United States Army revolver (219895); Smith & Wesson revolver and Belgian revolver (219896) ; 8 Remington, Marlin, Winchester, and Mossberg firearms (219897); Remington rifle (219899) ; Steyr Solotharon machine pistol (219700); Stevens shotgun and rifle (219701, 219702); Winchester automatic shotgun (219703); Hagan tear gas gun (219704); (through Russell C. Harrington) 5,801,500 obsolete United States internal revenue stamps (210157); 441 documentary stamps and announcement by American Phototype Company of New York regarding documentary stamps (216895).
Tressler, Dr. Willis L., Washington, D. C.: 4 ostracods, type, from Great Slave Lake, collected by Dr. D. S. Rawson, 1946 (215252).
Trinidad Regional Virus Laboratory, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad: (Through Dr. T. H. G. Aitken) 153 flies and 26 scorpions from Trinidad (217014, 219491).
Trowbridge, Mrs. Cornelius P., Morristown, N. J.: Greatcoat with cape and chapeau, believed to have been worn by Kaiser Wilhelm II during World War I (219448).
Tucker, Teddy, Somerset, Bermuda: 76 objects from Spanish wreck, ca. 1594,
and from wreck of French Man o’ War Hermione lost in 1839 (217023).
Tulane University, New Orleans, La.: 27 grasses from Louisiana (215494).
Turks and Caicos Islands, Government of, Turks Islands, B. W. I.: set of 14 postage stamps of the Turks and Caicos Islands (217931).
Turner, Edward H., New Hyde Park, N. Y.: 2 weights for analytical balance
(218476). (See also Richtmyer, Dr. Nelson K.)
Turner, Dr. R. C. (See Stallings, Don D.)
Tvedt, Reidar. (See United Nations Postal Administration)
Unfug, C., Mollusk, Va.: Beetle,
cricket, 2 dragonflies, 3 flies, frogs, and lizards (217245).
Union College, Schenectady, N. Y.: (Through Prof. C. F. Goodheart) 5 pieces of power distribution equipment, 6 pieces of electrical laboratory equipment (217026).
United Nations Postal Administration, United Nations, N. Y.: First-day cover, 50 3-cent, and 50 8-cent Security Council commemorative stamps of the United Nations (216750); (through Reidar Tvedt) 56 U. N. stamps and postal cards (214954); 17 complete sheets of U. N. stamps including 1 each of the 1951 first issue and air mail and 1 each of the 3-cent and 8-cent Human Rights, 1957 (217208); complete sheet each of 3-cent and 8-cent U. N. International Atomic Energy Agency stamps (217976); complete sheet each of 3-cent and 8-cent U. N. Central Hall stamps (219375).
United States Educational Foundation in Australia, Canberra, Australia: (Through Dr. Goeffrey G. Rossiter) 11,857 miscellaneous insects and 2 frogs from Australia, collected by Dr. Willis W. Wirth working with D. J. Lee. (211027).
United States Information Agency. (See Tauler, Antonio)
United States Lines Company, New York, N. Y.: (Through Capt. R. E. Cropley) 72 photographic negatives of

<<<Page: 155>>>

former United States Lines’ steamers (217933).
United States Senate, Washington, D. C.: Committee on Appropriations: (Through Senator Carl Hayden) 14 Japanese and German rifles, bayonets and ammunition (219363).
Universidad Auténoma de San Luis Potosi, San Luis Potosi, Mexico: 3 grasses from Mexico collected by Dr. Jerzy Rzedowski (215301).
Universidad de la Republica, Montevideo, Uruguay: 17 plants from Uruguay (216630); (through Dr. Aquiles Silveria Guido) 55 grasshoppers from Uruguay (219717, exchange).
Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata, Argentina: (Through Dr. Belindo Adolfo Torres) 4 cicadas from South America (216204, 217109, exchange).
Universidad Nacional de Trujillo, Trujillo, Peru: 41 phanerogams, 21 grasses and 11 ferns from Peru (217542, 219595).
Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marces, Lima, Peru: 49 phanerogams from Peru (219136, 219693).
Université de Paris, Paris, France: (Through Dr. C. Guillemin) 38 minerals from various localities (217017, exchange).
University Museum, Oxford, England: (Through G. G. KE. Scudder) paratype of Lygaeid bug from Africa (217172, exchange).
University of the South, Sewannee, Tenn.: (Through Dr. Harry C. Yeatman) 8 isopods, including 1 slide, collected from Bermuda fish (212832).
Uniwersytet Poznanski, Poznan, Poland: (Through Dr. Zygmunt Tobolewski) 25 lichens from Poland (220090, exchange).
Unknown: 2 children’s books (216082) ; small lidded basket from the Fulani of Nigeria (216848).
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, Mich.: (Through Don R. Hall) unicap multivitamins in apothecary jar (218455).
Uppsala, University of, Uppsala, Sweden: 94 phanerogams, 22 grasses, 7 ferns, 789 cryptogams, and 80 lichens,
from Secandanavia and Tropical East Africa (216080, 218443, exchange).
Usticke, G., Christiansted, St. Croix, V. I.: 107 land snails from St. Croix (215294).
Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah: 7 vials of diatom material collected from Logan River, by Dr. William J. Clark (215989).
Utah State University, Logan, Utah: 11 phanerogams, 22 grasses, and 4 ferns from Utah (217676, exchangegift).
Utinomi, Dr. H. (See Seto Marine Biological Laboratory)
Utteridge, Mrs. William K., Washington, D. C.: Wedding gown and 6
costume accessories, 19th century (216392). Vanderhoof, Maj. Judson, Laurel,
Md.: Vibroplex radio telegraph key
(217659).
van der Vecht, Dr. J., Leiden, Netherlands: Wasp from the LEHast Indies (217635).
van der Vlerk, Dr. I. M. (See Geo-
logisch-Mineralogisch Instituut der Rijksuniversiteit te Leiden)
Van Keuren Company, Watertown, Mass.: Van Keuren light wave micrometer (220106).
Van Noten, Jean, Winter Park, Fla.: 15 stamps, franked cover, and first-day cover of Belgium (217391).
Vareschi, Dr. Volkmar. (See Instituto Botdnico, and Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria).
Vazquez, Alberto W., Washington, D. C.: 29 amphibians and reptiles from Mexico, collected by donor (220115).
Verma, S. C., Amritsar, India: 2 ferns from India (218489).
Vernon, C. J., Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia: 2 birds’ eggs (219871).
Vezda, Dr. Antonin. (See Masaryk University)
Vineland High School, Vineland, N. J.: (Through J. Albert Starkey) 2 crayfishes from Atlantic County, N. J. (218952).
Virginia Fisheries Laboratory, Gloucester Point, Va.: (Through Dr. Willis G. Hewatt) 4 sea anemones from

<<<Page: 156>>>

Gloucester Point and Cape Charles, Va. (215656).
Vogel, Francis, The Heirs of, San Antonio, Tex.: (Through Olga H. Vogel) Russian Circassian dagger and sheath, felted burkha, leather slippers, and book on the Transcaucasian peoples in the Russian Province of Georgia (216351).
Vogel, Olga H. (See Vogel, Francis, The Heirs of)
Vogel, Robert M., Baltimore, Md.: 3 wooden blocks, bearing mill identification, used to stamp fabric lengths (217381).
Vogt, George B., Washington, D. C.: Beetle, holotype, from Texas (220118).
Von Hermann, Mrs. Rita E., Washington, D. C.: Tambour lace veil, 1815, and wooden tambour lace needle used in making it (216849).
von Hippel, Henning, Buenos Aires, Argentina: 1 stomatopod from Paranagua, Brazil (212538).
Voss, Dr. Gilbert L. University of)
(See Miami,
Wagner, George M., Guayaquil, Ecuador: 2 plants from JHcuador (215381).
Wagner, Dr. Warren H., Jr., Ann Arbor, Mich.: Fern (215371). (See also Michigan, University of)
Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 38 brachipods from Pliocene of Sicily (215390); 330 mammals, Middle Hocene, Wyoming, collected by Dr. C. L. Gazin and Franklin L. Pearce, July—August, 1957(216601) ;300 Bryozoa Middle Devonian Hamilton group of New York State (219347).
Wallerstein, Mrs. Ray L., Alexandria, Va.: Buddhist household shrine ‘‘Kannon sama”’ of carved wood (217248).
Walter, Dr. Waldemar M., Pullman, Wash.: 274 fresh-water snails from Washington and the Alsea_ River, Oregon (217891, 219618).
Walters, Dr. Viadimir. (See American Museum of Natural History)
Wanderhoef, Major J., Laurel, Md.: 4 Japanese electrontubes, 1 American electrontube (218451).
Warmke, Mrs. Germaine L., Mayaguez, P. R.: 140 marine mollusks from Puerto Rico (215696).
Warner, J., Zwolle, Netherlands: Continental currency note of $60, issued 1778, Philadelphia (219356).
Washington, Bennetta C. (See Armstrong Technical High School)
Washington, State College of, Pullman, Wash.: Charles R. Connor Museum: (Through Dr. George EK. Hudson) 3 shrews from Garfield County, Wash. (217323, exchange).
Washington, University of, Seattle, Wash.: (Through William Aron) 78 amphipods from stomach of salmon and plankton surveys (215460); 2 type specimens of a fish, from off Cape Flattery (219130); (through R. U. Gooding) 5 callianassids and 8 copepods from Vancouver Island, Canada (215804); 217 crustaceans (218740); (through Richard L. Wood) 48 sea anemones, types, from Puget Sound, Wash. (215251).
Wass, Dr. Marvin L., Gainesville, Fla.: 3 shrimps (217211). (See also Florida, University of)
Wassen, S. Henry (See Gothenburg Ethnographic Museum)
Waters, Dr. Charles A.; Firor, Dr. Whitmer B.; and Willson, Dr. James K. V., Baltimore, Md.: General Electric portable X-ray unit (217378).
Watkins, Mrs. Charles H., Middleton, Mass.: Bathing hat, ca. 1880 (217020).
Waybright, Earl J., Gettysburg, Pa.: Foot-power milking machine (220004).
Webb, George, Hampton, Va.: 3 fossil gastropods, Miocene, Yorktown formation, near Hampton, Va. (215889) ; 4 fossil Bryozoa from near Hampton, Va. (217723).
Webb, J. H., Rochester, N. Y.: 24 miscellaneous mollusks (219550).
Webb, Lt. Col. Joseph E., Jr., New York, N. Y.: 52 beetles from Turkey (216422).
Weber, Jay A., Miami, Fla.: 128 mollusks from Florida, Louisiana, and St. Croix, V. I. (213879); 2,640 freshand brackish-water mollusks from Louisiana and the West Indies (216224);

<<<Page: 157>>>

(through Dr. David Nicol) mollusk from Havana, Cuba (215699).
Weber, Walter A., Washington, D. C.: 2 moose and a mountain goat from Montana (216809).
Wedgwood, Annie Reese. Wedgwood, Josiah and Sons, Inc.)
Wedgwood, Josiah and Sons, Inc., New York, N. Y.: (Through Annie Reese Wedgwood) copy of the original portrait medallion made by Josiah Wedgwood from the Houdon bust of George Washington (216397).
Weibezahn, Dr. Franz H. (See Estaci6n Experimental de Piscicultura)
Weill, Raymond H. and Roger G., New Orleans, La.: United States 24¢ airmail stamp of 1918 (217665).
Weill, Roger G. (See Weill, Raymond H.)
Weinstein, Stephen A., Chicago, IIL: 65 fresh-water fishes from Colombia (218425).
Wells, Mr. and Mrs. Harry W., Durham, N. C.: 34 marine mollusks from North Carolina (216563).
Wenzel, Dr. R. L. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
West, Mrs. Eddie, Corona del Mar, Calif.: 23 pearly fresh-water mussels from Florida (216294).
West Virginia University, Morgantown, W. Va.: 5 grasses, 50 phanerogams (219974, exchange).
Westerfield, Mrs. Jason, Camden, Maine: 43 costume and accessory items of the ‘‘Peggy Westerfield collection” (216880).
Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Washington, D. C.: Bird skeleton and 2 birds’ nests from South Africa (216064); 4 birds from Virginia (216558) ; starling, house sparrow, and 11 cowbirds (218856, 219442). (See also Defense, U. 8. Department of; Pettingill, Dr. Olin Sewell; and Smithsonian Institution)
Weyrauch, Dr. Wolfgang, Lima, Peru: 274 land and marine mollusks, including 97 paratypes, from Peru (208753).
Wheaton College, Norton, Mass.: (Through Dr. Mildred Evans) Oertling assay balance (218477),
(See
Wheeler, Dr. Marshall R., Austin, Tex.: 5 flies, 3 holotypes and 2 paratypes (219751); 2 flies from South America (216581). (See also Texas, University of)
White, Paul V., Miami Springs, Fla.: Spanish olive-oil jar (215856).
White, W. C. (See General Electric
Company)
Whiteley, Col. Joseph H. (See Whiteley, Joseph W.)
Whiteley, Joseph W. (deceased):
(Through Col. Joseph H. Whiteley) 2 wooden cabinetmaker’s clamps
(215860).
Whitney, Frank N., Hopkins, Minn.: Chippewa beaded shoulder pouch (219404).
Whittard, Dr. W. F. University of)
Whittington, Dr. Harry B. (See Harvard University)
Wiggins, Dr. Ira L. University)
Wigley, Roland L. U. S. Department of the)
Wilcox, Joseph, Whittier, Calif.: 40 flies from the United States (216414).
Wilcox, Leroy, Speonk, Long Island, N. Y.: 3 flies (213172).
Wilder, Philip S. (See Bowdoin College)
Wilkinson, Madeleine, Plainfield, Vt.:
(See Bristol,
(See Stanford
(See Interior,
Collection of late 19thand 20thcentury clothing (219894). Williams, Dr. Austin B. (See North
Carolina, University of)
Williams, David. (See Consolidated Edison Company of New York)
Williams, Dr. Ernest E. (See Harvard University)
Williams, M. Woodbridge. National Geographic Society)
Williams, Dr. R. V., Berkeley, Calif.: 35 centipedes from California and Arizona (217919, 219753).
Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.: (Through Prof. James Curry) Chemical furnace, 18th century (216214) ; (through Ralph Winch) Braun cathode ray tube (217660).
Williamson, Dr. W. M. (See Museum of the City of New York)
(See

<<<Page: 158>>>

Willson, Dr. James K. V. Waters, Dr. Charles A.)
Wilson, Dr. E. O. (See Harvard University)
Wilson, Mrs. Lester G., Winter Park, Fla.: 3 examples of hand-made lace (219769).
Wilson, Mrs. Mildred S., Anchorage, Alaska: 6 copepods, types (218498).
Winburg, Mrs. Margaret Smiler, Washington, D. C.: 2 18th-century engraved Spanish glass bottles and a blown 3-mold decanter (216878).
Winch, Ralph. (See Williams College)
Windsor, Benjamin Rutherford. (See Robinson, Mrs. Nell Windsor)
Wingate, David B. (See Bermuda Department of Agriculture)
Winn, Dr. Howard, College Park, Md.: 184 fishes from Bermuda (216595).
Winokur, Dr. William, Detroit, Mich.: 596 various British Colonial stamps in presentation booklets of the Universal Postal Congress, 1947 (216881).
Wisconsin, University of, Madison, Wis.: (Through Dr. Roger Batten) 210 invertebrate fossils, types, from Wisconsin (218851, exchange); (through Dr. L. R. Laudon) 13 echinoids from the Gilmore City formation, Iowa (217362) ; (through Dr. John W. Thomson) 4 North American lichens (217893, exchange).
Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology, Philadelphia, Pa.: So-called petrified body, 3 Egyptian mummies, and bitumen from skull of Egyptian mummy (219346); 31 skulls and skeletons of mammals (220087).
Woke, Dr. Paul A., Bethesda, Md.: Snake from Gautemala (217101).
Wolcott, Mrs. Norman M., Washington, D. C.: 14 Romano-British sherds from Bampton, Oxfordshire, England (218411).
Wolfe, Kenneth B., and Beck Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, Cleveland, Ohio: Human heart corrosion specimen and a human brain embedded in plastic (219504).
(See
Wolfe, Col. L. R., Kerrville, Tex.: Nighthawk from Texas (218855).
Woman’s Union, Wellesley, Mass.: (Through Mrs. George M. Low) Blue slippers crocheted by Mrs. William McKinley (215542).
Woed, Lt. Charles R., Fort Belvoir, Va.: Hyalite from Mt. Casper, Wyo. (218429).
Wood, Richard L. University of)
Wood, Dr. Stephen L. (See Canadian Department of Agriculture)
Woodring, Dr. Wendell P., Washington, D. C.: Mollusk from Japan (216408); 500 marine mollusks, west coast of Panama (219551).
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Mass.: (Through William HE. Schevill) 14 amphipods collected from Bahamas (214335).
Woods, Loren P. (See Chicago Natural History Museum)
Woodward, Dr. T. E. land, University of)
Woolston, Arthur, Primavera, Paraguay: 15 plants from Paraguay (215943); 25 phanerogams, 2 grasses, 3 ferns from Paraguay, collected by donor (216833); 52 phanerogams from Paraguay (216383, 217221, 219205).
Wootton, Dr. Donald, Woods Hole, Mass.: 2 trematode worms, type and paratype, from Cape Cod, Mass. (215267).
Workingmen’s Institute, Library of, New Harmony, Ind.: (Through Thomas Mumford) 39 gastropods, Pennsylvanian of New Harmony, Ind. (217368).
Worthington Corporation, Harrison, N. J.: Worthington double-acting steam pump, ca. 1844 (219903).
Wright, Henry, Annapolis, Md.: Large 19th-century barn spike (216659).
Wyeth Laboratories, Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through J. D. Cash) Rotary tablet press and General Electric induction motor (220034). bee
Wyoming, University of, Laramie, Wyo.: 3 grasses from Wyoming (216623, 216624); (through Ralph F. Honess) 22 mollusks, leeches and
(See Washington,
(See Queens-
scorpion from Wyoming and Idaho

<<<Page: 159>>>

(216160); (through Dr. C. L. Porter) 101 ferns and 7 phanerogams from tropical America and the Philippines (220091, exchange).
Yale University, New Haven, Conn.: School of Forestry: 17 legumes from Panama, collected by W. L. Stern (216832); 1400 woods of the world, in eane form, known as the Rudolph Block Collection of Walking Sticks (217938). Peabody Museum of Natural History: (Through Dr. Dillon Ripley) bird from the Philippines (216328, exchange).
Yang, Dr. You Chan. (See Korea, Government of the Republic of)
Yeatman, Dr. Harry C., Sewanee, Tenn.: 2 copepods (215250). (See also University of the South)
Yedlin, Neal, New Haven, Conn.: 6 minerals from Maine (216377, exchange); grossularite from Eden Mills, Vt. (219482, exchange).
Yochelson, Dr. Ellis L., Washington, D. C.: 25 mollusks from the Lower Paleozoic, Czechoslovakia (215833); 10 gastropods from the Silurian and Devonian, Australia, (216372).
Yoder, Hatten S., Jr. (See Cofer, Harland E., Jr.)
Young, Mrs. Ernest C., Brookline, Mass.: (Through Jeneve M. Melvin) Revolutionary War warrant and service record of Jonathan Childs (214216).
Young, Dr. Keith, Austin, Tex.: 6 ammonites from the Cretaceous Mowry formation, Montana (217366).
Youtz, Pat. (See Massachusetts Institute of Technology)
Yugoslavia, Government of, Belgrade, Yugoslavia: (Through Vl. Ognjenovic) 6 stamps of Yugoslavia, 1957 (217388).
Yunker, Conrad E., College Park, Md.: 10 crabs from Gulf of Suez and Egypt (216231). (See also Defense, U. 8S. Department of)
Zareski, Gordon. Minerals Co.)
Zetek, James, Balboa, Canal Zone: 37 fresh-water mussels from Florida (204977); 24 reptiles and amphibians, and 2 lots of mollusks from Panama (215629).
Ziesenhenne, Rudolph, Santa Barbara, Calif.: 11 begonia plants, types (217648, exchange).
Zoological Survey of India, Calcutta, India: (Through Dr. M. L. Roonwal and Dr. K. C. Jayaram) 20 fishes from India (203266, exchange).
Zoologisches Institut der Universitat Miinchen, Munich, Germany: (Through J. Scheven) 12 wasps from Europe (217639, exchange).
Zoolegisches Staatsinstitut und Zoologisches Museum, Hamburg, Germany: 468 land and fresh-water mollusks from Germany and elsewhere in Europe (216352, exchange).
Zoologisk Museum, Oslo, Norway: (Through Dr. Edvard K. Barth) 4 lemmings from Norway (219231, exchange).
Zumpt, Dr. F. (See South African Institute for Medical Research)
(See Gibraltar

<<<Page: 160>>>



<<<Page: 161>>>



<<<Page: 162>>>



<<<Page: 163>>>



<<<Page: 164>>>

a ord Me

<<<Page: 165>>>

— ee eee
a 3 bi ee fama ee" ke a | ed bial Seppe eres 1] eee

<<<Page: 166>>>

q bs : be : ass | ae | | La Lj ie 3 | |

<<<Page: 167>>>



<<<Page: 168>>>

