<<<Page: 1>>>

Bot @
ae _ uo i le : Pa % a » a te : % ee f bs bs t ; ee Oe es

<<<Page: 2>>>

ne Aen at aterm
je deptiocln 2 Seine paicntis ohh desbimacie
aly % (ais Tar sae
wy : aN Aeas Pits fs Wie bate Ss ae Wiis Bras ios ote
; Me re os Gin i ate i Bass iaia hae Ma f oA Nays : $n S iad
Ne oa is ere Me $7) a 7 %) 4
ee a aa ee wy _ oo
i : Uf es i . . a
ae ae A are a , 4 ti ms : i ae Ipanat sas 3)
* iF Bt i a ts
if peredtas ten tt ene ense i b is ae 3 7 : by
ty Hart
ng i i
a He Dees ty i i
Sack
So ee
Wea sie
bey ts aN i ae i . ; i RueraD i if
Seen Spero on, Ree ener tonnccrer!
= So
Serres eer
ate a
He “hay Lae, ye 8
ety io . . ae
a 7 etiseseey) ui ais wwartiey Be is Ve a . ay ‘, ay Ae sei : wees 3 Baath ;
a 7 ao i
fy x5 5 7 Hit wes
hays in Ne es 1
¢ shh My as
i) -
i i 3
ats ‘he
set a an
vs Bi sa He ‘
a rs
Dy. Oe 5
a iy 4 ae

<<<Page: 3>>>

J % 3 ah oc i is eat: Pe a Vv Avi : Pe 7 N\ v| Vi. y MW \ gt val Nd V \ GY h 3 BVA A Vii j}x ‘ Aid Ye y 3 x ae oy fh ) if j\ . i; z Sirs a. V ve\ yy ‘ iM, Y AS Ne] \ tt We Ji vi i y iN PR e« fh aN f ‘\ i ; it F ‘ ; R a a, Be mee x
seh ei { a) yw Ve : NW > Roy N= jt % ‘ jw: \ i) KIMI MMS MA] Wd Fa 8 WH wd % hE AS 7 ee ae hah \ }
i A ; e x i G +s ‘ i 7 . > > Twe. KS . a : ~ eh me ’ he ie Se ee | 3 ‘ ie io tea me 7 4 b |. te tw OF es Sie ae i rf : (See Jie AS bana ime Ae UM. | AG i SE AN RA hESC

<<<Page: 4>>>



<<<Page: 5>>>



<<<Page: 6>>>



<<<Page: 7>>>



<<<Page: 8>>>

of wT,
Go N

<<<Page: 9>>>

ren te
ve re iT) BS fewiee 0 ids ee,

<<<Page: 10>>>

33d ConGcRESS, | Mts. Doe.
1st Session. No. 73. LETTER SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
The Annual Report of the Board of Regents.
Juty 25, 1854.—Ordered to be printed.
Jury 28, 1854.—Ordered that 10,000 additional copies be printed, 500 of which for the use of the Smithsonian Institution.
SmiruHsoniaw Instirution, July 22, 1854.
Str: I have the honor herewith to transmit to you the Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg leave to request that you will present it to the Senate of the United States.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. Hon. Davin R. Arcuison,
President of the Senate of the U. S.

<<<Page: 11>>>

pn ae yf ic +N:
ilk TS eee a...
i 7h ee ba ste ; ‘hia nt re ni} ‘ee F Lies a 7a aH | te i ™) ap : MM Diy maar is v Ore ait < Hida Wha a : 4 i % | hs Aj Pa v a 1 14 (a : ‘SEO ay is 4
| a | | A. ite .
i pea § “(ae itt 7H . : a na Ami 4) m Lame Ng ; Ae 7 oil
F ey a , oa “oi i iE ot A a ay ee a
rn | ae v rai? ; re

<<<Page: 12>>>

FRANKLIN PIERCE, Ex-officio Presiding Officer of the Institution.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.
CHARLES C. JEWETT, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Library, up to July 10, 1854. SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Museum.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, JAMES A. PEARCE, Executive Committee. JOSEPH G. TOTTEN,
RICHARD RUSH, WM. H. ENGLISH, Building Committee. JOSEPH HENRY,
W. W. SEATON, Treasurer.
—— ——_, Vice President of the United States.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the City of Washington.
JAMES A. PEARCE, Member of the Senate of the United States. JAMES M. MASON, Member of the Senate of the United States.
S. A. DOUGLAS, Member of the Senate of the United States.
W. H. ENGLISH, Member of the House of Representatives.
DAVID STUART, Member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES MEACHAM, Member of the House of Representatives. RUFUS CHOATE, Citizen of Massachusetts.
GIDEON HAWLEY, Citizen of New York.
J. MACPHERSON BERRIEN, Citizen of Georgia.
RICHARD RUSH, Citizen of Pennsylvania.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, Member of the National Institute, Washington. JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, Member of the National Institute, Washington.

<<<Page: 13>>>

FRANKLIN PIERCE, President of the United States.
, Vice President of the United States. WILLIAM L. MARCY, Secretary of State.
JAMES GUTHRIE, Secretary of the Treasury. JEFFERSON DAVIS, Secretary of War.
JAMES C. DOBBIN, Secretary of the Navy.
JAMES CAMPBELL, Postmaster General.
CALEB CUSHING, Attorney General.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. CHARLES MASON, Commissioner of Patents.
JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the City of Washington.

<<<Page: 14>>>

The operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up to January
1, 1854, and the proceedings of the Board up to July 8, 1854.
To the Senate and House of Representatives :
In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution, the following documents :
1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations of the Institution during the year 1853, including reports from the Assistant Secretaries, relative to the library, museum, &c.
2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an account of the expenditures for the year 1853.
3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made in 1853 in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice.
4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents and of the Establishment, up to July 2, 1854
5. Appendix.
Respectfully submitted.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor. JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. Jury 22, 1854.

<<<Page: 15>>>

a st ; -© 7 UV a 4 1 * mM, i reer’ 7 A J Pr: a 2 ian re
| ' ; ; nat ' : ; ie ; Nii a eo ae a ae ber Th) ie Shige Re: ag “pitas AUCH Ag oO ei
ita gad da) 4 WeDo Cena Fhe a ARAL hs . oe inn oh da ata
7 te | i arp va vf pat as ae Stet et a ae fone 3
CC (or a ers) a? Rear a i ftp ‘9 fon A whe +. ay i) +A yi veils wings raven lakh a ary) ée Dean ir hae iy eS | i Sa ae eh. ian
pe ot i; _ ie nae ai oe a Meaney 0 Ge te ar +d ee Ky che ghemeees ot . Te eee a. ii oe Pity eer tyiney j Hv be By ae Peat). pete Be “gives '
\ Ss) vf NV ‘ 1 5 DY of \/ ' t ‘ ; { " ‘ wy, i = ‘A , -

<<<Page: 16>>>

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
GentLEMEN: Nothing of especial interest has occurred during the past year to mark an epoch in the history of the mstitution over which you preside. The several objects set forth in the plan of organization have been prosecuted as far as the funds which could be devoted to them would allow. A knowledge of the true character of the institution has been gradually extended, and it is a subject of gratification that the plan of operations is more highly appreciated the better it is understood. Every succeeding year which is added to the age of the institution will render it more stable, so long as it pursues undeviatingly the same course. All establishments, however, which are supported by bequests, intended to promote the public good, are necessarily subjected to the scrutiny of all who consider themselves personally interested in the trust. The managers are overwhelmed with suggestions, and subjected to illiberal criticisms, and unless they are firmly convinced of the propriety of their course, and have sufficient moral courage to pursue it notwithstanding opposition, there is danger of vacillation, and of an attempt to gain popularity by adopting measures not calculated to promote the desired end. It should, however, be recollected that opinions ought to be weighed rather than counted, and that nothing of importance can be accomplished either by an individual or an institution, except by constant and laborious exertion in one direction. In:the beginning of this institution the plans best calculated to realize the liberal intentions of the donor were adopted after due deliberation, and have been constantly adhered to and developed as far as the requisitions of Congress and the limited income would allow. From the character of James Smithson and his pursuits there can be no reasonable doubt as to his intention in regard to the bequest. He was a man familiar with the precise language of exact science, and no other construction ought to be put upon the words of his will than that which a strict interpretation will allow. He leaves his property to found an establishment which shall bear his own name, and have for its object “the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” It would evidently be incompatible with an enlarged and just interpretation of this will to confine its benefits exclusively to one people, and especially would it be unworthy the character of a great nation to accept the administration of a bequest intended for the good of mankind, and to apply it exclusively to its own use.
Nothing apparently can be further from the truth than the idea which

<<<Page: 17>>>

was first prevalent in this country that Smithson left his money merely to diffuse practical knowledge among the people of the United States. On the contrary he intended this institution as a monument to his name which should be known of all men, and prized by the student of every branch of literature and science, which should not be restricted to merely spreading abroad the knowledge which already exists, but, above all, should be the means of enlarging the bounds of human thought. He was also too much of a philosopher to confine his bequest to the promotion of any one branch of literature or science, and therefore left the trust free to be applied to all.
His will recognizes a well established and very important distinclion with regard to knowledge, viz. its mcrease and its diffusion. These, though frequently confounded, are very different processes, and each may exist independent of the other. While we rejoice that in our country, above all others, so much attention is paid to the diffusion of knowledge, truth compels us to say that comparatively little encouragement 1s given toits increase.
There is another division with regard to knowledge which Smithson does not embrace in his design, viz. the application of knowledge to useful purposes in the arts; and it was not necessary he should found an institution for this purpose. There are already in every civilized country establishments and patent laws for the encouragement of this department of mental industry. As soon as any branch of science can be brought to bear on the necessities, conveniences, or luxuries of lite, it meets with encouragement and reward. Not so with the discovery of the incipient principles of science. The investigations which lead to these receive no fostering care from government, and are conSidered by the superficial observer as trifles unworthy the attention of those who place the supreme good in that which immediately administers to the physical necessities or luxuries of life. ~ If physical well being were alone the object of existence, every avenue of enjoyment should be explored to its utmost extent. But he who loves truth for its own sake, feels that its highest claims are lowered and its moral influence marred by being continually summoned to the bar of immediate and palpable utility. Smithson ‘himself had no such narrow views. The prominent design of his bequest is the promotion of abstract science. It leaves to the teacher and the teeming press to diffuse popular knowledge, and to the Patent Office and the manufacturer to facilitate and reward the application of science to the useful arts. In this respect the Institution holds an otherwise unoccupied place in this country, and adopts two fundamental maxims in its policy: 1st, to do nothing with its funds which can be equally well done by other means; and, 2d, to produce results which, as far as possible, will benefit mankind in general. Any deviations from these maxims which the history of the Institution may exhibit, must be referred to the original requirements of the law of Congress authorizing its establishment, and not to the plan of active operations at first proposed in the programme, and which has constantly been kept in view trom the beginning until the present time.
A miscellaneous and general library, museum, and gallery of art, though important in themselves, have from the first been considered by

<<<Page: 18>>>

those who have critically examined the will of Smithson, to be too restricted in their operations and too local in their influence, to meet the comprehensive intentions of the testator; and the hope has been cherished that other means may ultimately be provided for the support of those objects, and that the whole income of the Smithsonian fund may be devoted to the more legitimate objects of the noble bequest..-—
I have been informed by the Commissioner of Patents that the space now occupied in the building of the Patent Office by the national museum, is imperatively required for the display of models; and he suggests that a part or the whole of the Smithsonian building shall be purchased for the deposit of this collection. If Congress will entirely relieve the Smithsonian fund from the expense of collecting and maintaining a museum, a large portion of the present building would be unnecessary, and the proposition to purchase a part or the whole of it might properly be entertained. The Smithsonian Institution, if required, would take the supervision of a government museum, and would turn over to it all the specimens collected after they had been examined and described. The importance of a collection at the seat of government to illustrate the physical geography, natural history, and ethnology of the United States, cannot be too highly estimated. But the support of such a collection ought not to be a burthen upon the Smithsonian fund.
It was stated in the last report that the plan of an equal division of the income between the library and museum on the one hand, and the lectures, the publications, and researches on the other, was found not to work well in practice. It leads to inharmonious action, and to a system of expenditure by no means compatible with proper economy or the limited income of the Smithsonian fund. The subject has, however, been referred to a special committee of the Regents, which I trust will give it due consideration, and report their views during the present session of the Board.
Publications.—During the past year no diminution has taken place in the objects of interest which have presented themselves for the assistance and patronage of the institution. The amount of publications has only been limited by the appropriation which could be devoted to this purpose.
1. The first memoir published during the past year is one by Dr. Joseph Leidy, Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania, entitled, ‘The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska.”
A considerable portion of the country between the Mississippi and the Rocky mountains consists of the more recent geological deposits, and particularly on the Upper Missouri there exists a tract of country known by the name of the Mauvaises Terres, or the Bad Lands; this at one time was probably the bottom of an immense lake, in which perished thousands of animals having no representatives at this time on the surface of the earth. It appears that the waters of this lake were removed by some convulsion of nature, that the sediment at its bottom became indurated, and that afterwards the whole country was traversed by an immense wave of water, which carried away the softer parts of the strata, and left standing the harder parts in a series of irregular prismatic and columnar masses frequently

<<<Page: 19>>>

capped with irregular pyramids, and extending upwards to a height of from one to two hundred feet. ‘‘ Viewed in the distance, these rocky piles in their endless succession assume the appearance of massive architectural structures, with all the accessories of buttresses, turrets, and tapering spires.”? ‘The portion of the surface thus excavated forms a valley of ninety miles in length and thirty in breadth, which in its most depressed portion is about three hundred feet below the surface of the surrounding country. So thickly are the natural towers studded over the surface of this extraordinary region, that the traveller threads his way through deep confined passages, which resemble the narrow irregular streets and lanes of some of the old towns of the continent of Europe. At the foot of these columns, the remains of the ancient animals, which lived and breathed long before the advent of man upon the face of the earth, are found in such abundance as to form of this tract an extensive cemetery of vertebrated animals, rivalling, in the variety of its extinct species, the celebrated beds of the Paris basin.
This region having been brought to notice by a few fossil remains procured through the agents of the American Fur Company, an appropriation of about $200 for its exploration was made by the Smithsonian Institution to Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, who was about to visit, on account of his health, the sources of the Missouri. ‘The specimens of fossil remains which were thus procured, together with a collection subsequently presented to the Institution by Capt. Stewart Van Vliet, of the U. 8S. army, and several specimens kindly lent by Dr. Prout, of Missouri, were referred to Dr. Leidy for examination. In addition to these he had the use of a collection lent by Prof. O’Loghland, of Missouri, specimens belonging to the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and a collection made by Dr. Evans, at the instigation of Dr. D. Dale Owen, the whole embracing all the specimens which have yet been brought to the east from the Bad Lands. ‘The bones are completely petrified, and their cavities filled with silicious matter. They are preserved in various degrees of integrity, some being beautifully perfect and others broken and imperfect, the latter having been evidently subjected to violence while imbedded in a soft mud. ‘The animals belong to the classes mammalia and chelonia, or turtles. With a single exception, all the species of mammalia belong to the great order of ungulata or hoofed animals, of which there are seven species of four genera, which belong to the ruminantia, or cud-chewing animals ; two species of one genus belonging to the paradigitata ordinaria, or eventoed animals ; one species of the solipedia, or solid-hoofed animals ; and four species of three genera belonging to the imparidigitata ordinaria, or uneven-toed animals.
The first specimen described belonged to a peculiar genus of ruminants which, among recent animals, is more nearly allied to the musk, and was probably hornless. The next is of a remarkable genus of ungulata representing a type which occupies a position in the wide physiological interval existing between recent ruminants and the anomalous fossil animal called the anoplotherium. Another genus is called oreodon, and constitutes one of the links necessary to fill up the very wide gap between existing ruminants and an exceedingly aberrant form of the same family now extinct. Another organic relic is that of an

<<<Page: 20>>>

animal which combined the ruminant and carnivorous characteristics, of which there are several species. There are also two remarkable species of rhinoceros, differing from any remains of this animal found in other parts of the globe. The existing species of the rhinoceros are met with in Africa, Asia, and the islands of Java and Sumatra. Remains of extinct species have been found in Great Britain, the continent of Europe, Siberia, and the Himalayas; but no trace of this genus had previously been discovered in America. Another fossil remain belongs to the feline family, about a fifth smaller than the American panther, and is probably the most ancient known genus of this animal. Hundreds of fossil turtles are found in the ** Bad Lands ;’’ they belong to the genus testudo, of which five species are described in this paper.
The memoir occupies one hundred and twenty-six pages, and is illustrated by twenty-four plates, one of whichis a folio. It has already been printed and copies distributed among working geologists. No copy-right is secured on the publications of the Institution; and it may be mentioned here, as an illustration of the manner in which the knowledge contained in the Smithsonian memoirs reaches the public generally in a popular form, that one of the figures of this paper has already been copied, and some of its materials given in a recent work on geology.
2. Another paper, the printing of which is nearly complete, is on the ‘¢ Winds of the Northern Hemisphere,” by Prof. James H. Coffin, of Lafayette College, Easton, Pennsylvania. It is the same which was mentioned in the Report for 1851. Its publication has been delayed in consequence of the difficulty experienced in finishing the maps and printing the tabular matter, and also on account of additions made to it by the author. It isavery elaborate memoir, of two hundred pages, consisting principally of tabular matter, and illustrated by thirteen maps. The most important results arrived at in this paper, are as follows: There exist in the northern hemisphere three great zones of wind, extending entirely around the earth, modified and, in some cases, partially interrupted by the configuration and character of the surface. The first of these is the trade wind, near the equator, blowing, when uninterrupted, from northeast to southwest. This belt is interrupted, however, in the Atlantic ocean, near the coast of Africa, upon the Mediterranean sea, and also in Barbary by the action of the Gieat Desert. The second is a belt of westerly wind, nearly two thousand miles in breadth, between latitude 35° and 60° north, and encircling the earth, the westerly direction being clearly defined in the middle of the belt, but gradually disappearing as we approach the limits on either side. North of this, there is another system of winds flowing southwardly from high northerm latitudes, and gradually inclining towards the west as it moves into a latitude of greater easterly velocity.
Subsequent investigations have led Prof. Coffin to conclude that the lines which separate these systems are not parallels of latitude, but circles, having a common pole in about latitude 84° north, and longitude 105° west from Greenwich, and that the winds of high northern latitudes diverge or radiate from this point.
The principal cause of these phenomena is the greater heat of the

<<<Page: 21>>>

sun between the tropics, which rarifies the air, and causes it to ascend into the higher regions ; producing below a current from the pole towards the equator, and above a current in the opposite direction. ‘The resulting motions to and from the equator are not in a north and south direction along the meridians, but are modified by the rotation of the earth: at the surface they deviate towards the west, and in the return current above towards the east. Ifthe point mentioned by Prof. Coffin as the centre of the winds of the polar zone really exists, it is probably that of maximum cold; the air at this point would be condensed, and flow from it in radial lines in every direction along the surface of the earth. ‘The paper is an important addition to meteorology, and has cost the author years of labor. The publication of it has also been very expensive, particularly on account of the maps and tables.
3. Another memoir accepted for publication is, “An Account of a Tornado that passed near New Harmony, Indiana, April 30, 1852, by John Chappelsmith.”
The eastern portion of the North American continent is almost every year visited at different points by one or more tornadoes of frightful energy, but of exceedingly circumscribed limits; and it is almost an opprobrium to the science of this country that more reliable data have not been collected towards settling definitely the conditions of these remarkable phenomena, and for ascertaining their cause. For this purpose however, mere verbal descriptions of the effects are alone insufficient, there must be added to these accurate instrumental surveys, and, if possible, the indications of the barometer, thermometer, and hygrometer. The first accurate report of this kind was that by Prof. A. D. Bache, relative to a tornado which passed over the city of New Brunswick, in New Jersey, in 1834. A similar survey was made by Professor Eustis, of Harvard University, of the tornado of August 21, 1851, which passed near Cambridge. ‘
We consider the present memo as an exceedingly valuable addition to the stock of our knowledge on this subject. It gives not only all the collateral phenomena as far as they could be obtained, but presents a map of one square mile of the track on which are elaborately plotted the relative position and bearings of the prostrated trees. Some idea may be obtained of the enormous energy of this tornado from the statement of the author that “‘on a single square mile of the track, thousands of trees, many of them having a stem fifteen feet in circumference, were prostrated by a force acting simultaneously in opposite directions, and moving onward at the rate of a mile ina minute.”
The author critically analyses the force at work, and arrives at the conclusion that the proximate cause of the phenomenon is an inward, upward, and onward moving column of air. Besides the map, the memoir is accompanied by diagrams and sketches to illustrate the character and effects of the tornado.
4. Another memoir is entitled “The Antiquities of Wisconsin, examined and surveyed by I. A. Lapham.”
In the Report for 1851, it was mentioned that Mr. Lapham, an experienced engineer, had undertaken, under the direction of the American Antiquarian Society of Worcester, Massachusetts, to make explorations,

<<<Page: 22>>>

surveys and drawings of the aboriginal antiquities of Wisconsin, and, to insure harmony of action in the cultivation of the wide field of research offered by the ancient monuments of this country, that the Antiquarian Society had agreed to present to the Smithsonian Institution the results of the labors of Mr. Lapham for publication, and to reserve its own funds for further explorations. Mr. Lapham’s memoir has been completed, and, after having been examined and reported upon by a committee of the Antiquarian Society, has been presented to this Institution for publication. It consists of several hundred pages of manuscript, illustrated by sixty-three large drawings or plates adapted to the size of the Smithsonian Contributions, a map of the country, and ninety‘seven figures or smaller designs, intended to be engraved on wood and interspersed with the text.
Elaborate works of defence, and such as are apparently designed for religious or sacrificial ceremonies, so numerous in other sections of the country, are seldom found in Wisconsin. In place of these, less elevated structures, though often on a scale of considerable horizontal extent, representing a variety of fanciful forms, abound along the sides of the streams and borders of the lakes. The figures are principally those of lizards, turtles, birds, bears, foxes, and men, and they appear to be confined within a limited territory between the Mississippi and Lake Michigan. It is very remarkable, says the committee, that none of the earlier travellers appear to have noticed the animal shape of the embankments ; but this is accounted for by the extent and flafness of the works, and the difficulty of recognising them while covered with trees or a dense growth of other vegetation. Indeed, the surveyors who. first attempted to plot them were sometimes surprised at the figures developed under their hands, and which could not have been perceived on the ground, unless from an elevated point of view.
The memoir of Mr. Lapham, with a few unimportant exceptions, includes an account of every known work or assemblage of works in this region, and the whole were carefully surveyed by himself or by competent individuals under his direction. On the map are laid down the relative position of the earth-works; and from this it appears that they lie chiefly along the course of streams and the borders of the interior lakes. Nearly the same forms are repeated in different localities, but with dissimilar arrangement, and often with slight, yet evidently intentional variation in figure. The works are enumerated as follows :
a. ‘Tumuli of a conical shape and slight elevation.
6. Oblong mounds not more than three or four feet high, of regular width, extending in a straight line from twenty feet to several hundred, and even a thousand.
c. Kmbankments in crescent and serpentine forms.
d. Kmbankments tapering uniformly in width from one extremity to the other, and terminating in a point.
e. Similar tapering embankments, with two projections on one side,, near the larger end, which are called lizards, and are very numerous.
f: The same general form, with projections on both sides at the larger end, and with a similar tapering tail, sometimes of exceedingly

<<<Page: 23>>>

disproportionate length. These frequently present a striking resemblance to a turtle, and are known by the name of that animal.
g. Oblong embankments, with arms or wings extended on either side. These vary from simple crosses to figures of birds and men, the head being usually omitted.
h. Representations of animals of more definite outlines and better proportions: among these are bears, foxes, otters, &c., and upon the Wisconsin river, buffaloes. It is proved by numerous excavations that the works which resemble animals are destitute of relics; they are mere relievos or embossments on the surface of the earth, seldom exceeding four feet in height, and in some cases but a few inches. Mr. Lapham disclaims all intention of indulging a disposition to theorize or speculate on the origin or design of these remains, and declares his object to be merely the faithful performance of the office of surveyor, to study the facts, and to report them in as much detail as may be necessary, leaving to others the deductions which, in connexion with other information, may be drawn from them. In the opinion of the commission appointed by the society to examine the memoir, *‘ Mr. Lapham has accomplished his task with great thoroughness and artistic skill; he seems to have explored the entire field, to have industriously delineated every object of interest, and to have omitted no detail of drawing or description which could conduce to a clear understanding of the matter of which he treats.’”” The publication of this memoir, which will be alike creditable to the author, the Antiquarian Society, and this Institution, will furnish an interesting addition to the antiquities of this country, which cannot fail to be hailed with pleasure by the ethnologist.
5. ‘Two botanical papers, furnished by Dr. John Torrey, of the New York Medical College, have been published during the past year. The first describes a new pliant, to which the author has given the name of Darlingtonia Californica. It is a new pitcherplant, which was first detected ‘by Mr. W. D. Brackenridge, assistant botanist in the United States Exploring Expedition under r Captain Wilkes. It has hitherto been found only near the Shasta mountain, onthe Upper Sacramento. ‘The specimens brought home by Mr. Brackenridge \ were without flowers or seed-vessels, SO that the genus of the plant could not be determined, but it was taken for a new Sarracencia. After many years, the flowers were discovered by Dr. G. W. Hulse, and brought to Dr. Torrey, who has shown that the plant is an entirely new genus of the same small but very interesting natural order to which the Sarracencia belongs. He has bestowed upon it the name of Darlingtonia, in honor of Dr. William Darlington, of West Chester, Pennsylvania, author of several valuable botanical works. ‘The genus formerly dedicated to this veteran botanist by De Candolle having been reduced to an older one, Dr. 'Torrey embraced the opportunity of restoring the name, and connecting it with one of the most remarkable plants ‘of North America.
6. The second memoir by Dr. Torrey is an account of a new maritime shrubby plant, called “ Batis Maritima,’? which grows on the shores of Key West, Jamaica, Cuba, and the neighboring parts of the continent. It has been known to botanists for more than one hundred and fifty years, yet, strange to say, it has not till now been correctly described, nor its place in the natural system determined with any cer

<<<Page: 24>>>

tainty. Dr. Torrey considers it as the type of a distinct order, nearly allied to the empetracex, or crowberries.
Both memoirs are illustrated with plates, from beautiful drawings made by Sprague, at the expense of the institution.
7. The next memoir is a ‘Synopsis of the Marine Invertebrata of the Grand Manan, or the region about the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick,” by William Stimpson.
The island of Grand Manan, a part of the natural history of which this paper is intended to illustrate, lies at the mouth of the Bay of Fundy, and is surrounded by deep water, the bottom of which abounds in a variety of marine animals.
The memoir consists of a compend of observations made on the marine fauna of this region during a residence of three months in the
summer of 1852, and also of a catalcgue of the marine invertebrata found on the shores and in the adjacent waters.
Minute surveys of the marine animals of a given district are highly interesting; itis only by a comparison of the results of such examinations made at a series of points along a coast, that an accurate knowledge can be obtained of their distribution, and of the effects of external circumstances on their growth, habits, and economy. By such surveys We can ascertain whether a species may inhabit two distant localities without occurring in the intermediate space, a fact which has an important bearing on several interesting questions relative to geological changes. The author is a pupil of Professor Agassiz, and has been appointed one of the naturalists in the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, under Captain Ringgold.
The paper occupies 66 pages, and is illustrated by 37 lithographic figures.
8. A memoir has also been presented, and is now in the press, ‘On some new American species and localities of Microscopic Organisms,” by Prof. J. W. Bailey, of West Point, New York.
Nearly two centuries have passed away since Leeuwenhoek, an eminent physician of Holland, discovered by means of the microscope a department of organized nature, consisting of bodies imperceptible to the unaided vision, gnd displaying active forms, so strange and varied in their appearance, that they excited a general curiosity. The discovery, in some of them, of organs of motion, convinced him of their animal character, and he gave to them the name of animalcules. They were afterwards called infusoria. Many opinions were entertained with regard to their character. Linneeus considered them as lifeless, oily particles, and their movements as altogether passive. We owe, however, to Prof. Ehrenberg, of Berlin, an extended series of observations on this subject, the results of which are, that the infusoria are organized bodies; the greater part, if not all, are animals; they exist in all quarters of the globe, as well on land as at the bottom of the sea, and their silicious and calcareous remains form, in this country, wide-spread fossil strata. At Andover, Massachusetts, there is a bed of these remains of fifteen feet in thickness, and underlying the city of Richmond, Virginia, one of twenty-eight feet. Professor Bailey has distinguished himself by researches in the same line, and has published on this subject a series of papers in Silliman’s Journal, and in two

<<<Page: 25>>>

memoirs in the Smithsonian Contributions. In the present memoir he has described new species of diatomacee, limnias, auliscus, peridinium, cothurnia, and monactinus; he has given the American localities of Amphitetras antediluviana, and tetragramma, and gives an account of the organic forms found in the Croton water, New Works
One of the species described forms a material resembling white clay, which occurs in a large deposit at Suisun bay, about thirty miles above
San Francisco; and should, says Prof. Bailey, this fact meet the eye of any scientific traveller in California, it may induce. him to furnish further information concerning the geological relations of this interesting deposit, and to collect a good supply of specimens for a more complete study
It has been known to the New York microscopists, but not to the public generally, that the Croton water abounds in beautiful microscopic organisms, and particularly in diatomacex and desmidiew. — The
o author found in the sediment collected by means of a filter at the
Astor House, more than fifty different species of these organisms. Of
these the eae crotonensis is in the greatest abundance, and thousands of its fragments must be daily swallowed by those who use the ee water. It is so abundant that Prof. Bailey suggests that it'may yet prove of importance as a means of detecting the fraudulent dilution of various substances by this water.
This memoir is illustrated by a number of wood-cuts and thirty-eight elaborately drawn figures on a steel plate beautifully executed by J. a: Gavitt, an amateur naturalist and artist of Albany, New York.
9. During the past year the catalogue of Coleoptera by Frederick Ernst Mels heimer, M. D., mentioned in a previous Report, has been yublished and distributed. It forms an octavo volume of 174 pages.
At first sight it would appear that the study of insects is the most trivial and furthest removed of that of any part of creation from useful purposes; but independently of the interest which attaches to it as an exposition of animated nature, and an exhibition of organization and life in curiously diversified forms, there is scarcely any branch of natural history more intimately connected with the pursuits of the husbandman, the naval architect, and even those @! the artist and the bibliographer, than entomology. It is the duty therefore of this Institution to afford every facility for the acquisition of this branch of knowiedge, and to increase the number of those who make it their special study.
The coleoptera form one of the largest and most widely distributed class of insects; and on account of their boring habits, some of the species are highly destructive to timber. In order, however, to study them properly, it is necessary that the same species which exist in this country and in Europe may be identified, and that those which are new here may be separately described. The present memoir gives the names of all those which have been described, with references to the works where the descriptions may be found. Dr. Melsheimer has spent several years in the preparation of this work. It was referred for examination to Professor 8. S. Haldeman and Dr. J. L. Le Conte, who reported in favor of its publication, and offered to superintend its

<<<Page: 26>>>

printing and to bring it down to 1851. This they have done at the expense of much time and labor, and have thereby added materially to the usefulness of the catalogue.
10. A second edition of the Report on Recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts has been printed, and in due time an additional volume on this subject will be prepared.
11. The general interest which has been awakened by the recent application of electricity to purposes in the useful arts, and its recognised connexion with many important and mysterious phenomena of nature, led to the conclusion that an account of the recent discoveries in this branch of science would be highly prized by a large class of readers. In accordance with this view, a report by M. Miller, of Berlin, has been translated, and will be published as soon as the funds will allow of the expenditure. Stereotype copies of the origif\al wood-cuts have been obtained from the author.
It will be especially interesting to the English reader, because it gives more particularly the researches which have been made in Germany, and which are consequently not readily accessible to the inhabitants of this country and Great Britain.
12. Catalogue of North American reptiles in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. Part 1—Serpents—By 5. F. Baird & C. Girard, pp. 188.—This work is intended to exhibit the nature and extent of the collection of North American reptiles in the museum of the Smithsonian Institution. According to the statement of Professor Baird, it contains full and original descriptions from authentic specimens of 119 species of serpents, of which sixty have been first described by the authors, and from specimens in the Smithsonian collection. All the wellascertained species of North American serpents are included in this catalogue, which thus serves as a complete manual on the subject. The great work by Dr. Holbrook on the reptiles of North America, published in 1842, enumerates 49 species, as being all that were known to him; a number less than half of those in the possession of the Smithsonian Institution.
The phenomena of magnetism, which a few years ago were only recognised as existing 1n iron, and ina slight degree in a few other metals, are now known to belong to all matter; and with those of electricity, with which they are intimately connected, either in the relation of effect and cause, or the concomitant effects of a more general principle, are probably displayed in every part of the material universe. Recent researches render it probable that the sun and moon exert a magnetic influence upon our earth. Were the study of this mysterious principle immediately connected with*none of the physical wants of man, or with the arts of life, it would in itself be an object of high interest; but when we reflect how dependent upon it is the art of navigation, and how extensively it is employed in this country in tracing the divisions and boundaries of land, we are, from utilitarian considerations, induced to give it the most minute and laborious investigation.
It is now known that the magnetic needle is never at rest; that it is the subject of various changes, some depending upon the hour of the

<<<Page: 27>>>

day, others upon the season of the year, others again upon longer periods of time.
It also varies in its direction at different places. Between the Atlantic and Pacific coast, or, for example, between Massachusetts bay and the mouth of the Columbia river, there is a variation of upwards of twenty-four degrees; but this variation is not constant even at the same place, but changes from year to year. With these changes it is necessary that the navigator should be familiar. It therefore becomes a matter of national importance that observations of these phenomena should be made at as many places and those as widely separated from
each other as possible.
The Smithsonian Institution has endeavored to advance this branch of knowledge, by importing at different times, and at considerable expéhse, four entire sets of apparatus, besides separate instruments, for determining the direction and intensity of the magnetic force.
These instruments have been lent to observers, and in some cases sold to the government for the use of exploring parties, and have done,
fo) or are now doing, good service, in adding to the stock of facts which,
by the process of induction, are to yield 5 knowledge of general laws.
It will be recollected that an appropriation was made at the last session of the Regents for supplying magnetic instruments to the Grinnell Expedition. These were procured from London, were given in charge to Dr. Kane, and, we trust, are at this time revealing a that intrepid explorer the fitful and mysterious changes of the magnetic force.
During the past year, a magnetic observatory has been erected within the orounds of the Smithsonian Institution. “It principally consists, to insure an equable temperature, of an under-ground room, enclosed within two walls, between which a current of air is allowed to pass in order to prevent dampness. ‘This observatory has been supplied with a set of apparatus for determining the continued variations in direction and intensity of terrestrial magnetism. By a very ingenious application of the photographic process, the invention of Mr. Brooks, of England, the instruments are made to record, on a sheet of sensitive paper moved by clock-work, their own motions.
First, to determine the variation of direction of the horizontal magnet : a steel bar, strongly magnetized, is suspended by several fibres of untwisted silk, so as to have perfect freedom of motion in the horizontal plane, and from a gas light, kept perpetually burning, a single ray of light is thrown upon a concave mirror per manentlyattached to the magnetic bar, and consequently partaking of its movements. This ray of light is reflected and brought to a focus at the surface of a revolving cylinder, moved by clock-w ork, on which the photographic paper is placed. When the magnet is at rest, the pencil of light is stationary, and consequently traces, on the moving paper, a simple straight line; but when the magnet is disturbed by terrestrial perturbations, its pecillanians are recor ea by the motion of the pencil of light in a curved or zigzag line.
To register the intensity of strength of the magnetic force, another bar magnet is suspended by two parallel silk threads about an inch apart, descending from two hooks fastened to the under side of a plate

<<<Page: 28>>>

attached to the ceiling or some other support. The plate is then made to revolve through an arc of a circle until, by the force of torsion, the bar is deflected from a north and south to an east and west direction. It is thus kept in a state of equilibrium between the force of torsion of the threads, tending to turn its north end round still further to the south, and the magnetism of the earth, on the other hand, tending to bring it back to its north and south direction. Ifin this position the magnetism of the earth becomes stronger, it will prevail, and the north end of the needle will turn towards the north ; if the magnetism of the earth diminishes in intensity, the force of torsion will prevail, and the same end will move towards the south. These motions, as in the case of the other magnet, are recorded by a beam of light on the paper surface of the revolving cylinder.
But beside the change of direction of the horizontal needle, a magnet so supported as to be free to take any position, in this latitude will arrange itself with its north end dipping down towards the horizon. The amount of this dip, or variation, varies also in different places, and at different times; and to record these changes a bar is supported, in the direction of the magnetic north and south, on two knife edges like the beam ofa balance. Any change which takes place in the position of a magnet thus arranged, is recorded by a mirror attached to the prolongation of the axis on which the bar turns.
It is proposed to keep these instruments constantly in operation, for the purpose of comparing results with other observations of a similar character in different parts of the world; and also for the purpose of furnishing a standard to which the observations made at various points by the Coast Survey, and the different scientific explorations which are now in progress in the western portions of the United States, may be referred, and with which they may be compared.
This establishment ought to be supported by government; but as no provision has been made for it, and as the wants are pressing, in order to render more valuable the observations making in other countries as well as our own, the Smithsonian Institution, in connexion with the Coast Survey, has undertaken to commence it. In accordance, however, with the policy which has thus far governed the acts of the Institution, this observatory will be turned over to other hands as soon as other means are found for its support.
The other sets of magnetic instruments mentioned which have been imported by the Institution are intended to furnish portable magnetic observatories, in which the dip and the intensity are recorded by the pen from direct and personal observations.
Besides the facts which will be collected by the Coast Survey along our extended sea-board, those which the various exploring expeditions are furnishing, and those obtained by the instruments belonging to the Smithsonian Institution, a large number of records of observations exist as to the position of the magnetic needle in different parts of the United States in past times. A collection of these, and a comparison of them with more recent observations, would serve to throw light on the changes which have taken place in the course of years.
There is, also, on record in the Land Office, an extended series of

<<<Page: 29>>>

observations which, though not made with great precision, will still be of value in delineating the general direction of the magnetic lines in different parts of the United States. Steps have been taken to collect all the existing materials relative to this subject, with the view of submitting them in due time to reduction and careful investigation.
Correspondence.—T here is one part of the Smithsonian operations that attracts no public attention, though it is producing, it is believed, important results in the way of diffasing know ledge, and is attended, perhaps, with more labor than any pier part. I ‘allude to the scientific correspondence of the Institution. Scarcely a day passes in which communications are not received from persons in different parts of the country, containing accounts of discoveries, which are referred to the Institution, or asking questions relative to some branch of knowledge. The rule was e early “adopted to give respectful attention to every letter received, and this has been faithfully adhered to from the beginning up to the present time.
These communications relate to a great variety of subjects. Any topic which strongly excites the attention of the public at a given time, such as the announcement in the papers of a wonderful discoyery, or an important invention which promises to introduce extensive changes in the useful arts, is sure to bring upon the Institution an increase of labor in the way of correspondence. The ordinary inquirics addressed to the Secretary relate to the principles of mechanics, e lectricity, magnetism, meteorology, names of specimens of plants, minerals, insects, at in short, to all objects or phenomena of a remarkable or unusual character.
Requests are frequently made for lists of apparatus, fi for information as to the best books for the study of specia al subjects, hints for the organization of local societies, &c. Applic ations are also made for information by persons abroad relative to particular subjects respecting this country. When an immediate reply cannot be given to a question, the subject is referred, by letter, to some one of the Smithsonian co-laborers, to whose line of study it pertains ; and the answer is transmitted to the inquirer, either under the name of the person who gives the information or under that of the institution, according to ae circumstances of the case.
There is no country on the face of the earth in which knowledge is so generally diffused as in the United States, none in which there is more activity of mind or freedom of thought and discussion, and in which there is less regard to what should be considered as settled and well established principles. It will not therefore be surprising that the Institution should be called upon to answer a great number of communications intended to subvert the present system of science, and to establish new and visionary conceptions in its stead, and that numerous letters should be received pertaining to such subjects as the quadrature of the circle, the trisection of the “angle, the invention of self-moving machines, the creation of power, the overthrow of the Newtonian system of gravitation, and the invention of new systems of the universe.
Many of these communications are of such a character that, at first sight, it might seem best to treat them with silent neglect; but the rule

<<<Page: 30>>>

has been adopted to state candidly and respectfully the objections to such propositions, and to endeavor to convince their authors that their ground is untenable.
Though this course is in many cases attended with no beneficial results, still it is the only one which can be adopted with any hope of even partial good. In answering those who persist in declaring that the present received laws of mechanical action are erroneous, and that they have discovered new and more correct generalizations, they are requested to prove the truth of their assertions by predicting new and important phenomena, the existence of which may be immediately tested either by experiment or observation. It is not enough that the new system explains facts which we know, for this would be merely exhibiting old knowledge under a new form, but it should point out in the way of deduction new facts which have hitherto escaped the eye of the observer or the scrutiny of the experimenter.
It is to be regretted that so many minds of power and originality in our country should, from defective scientific training, be suffered to diverge so widely from the narrow path which alone leads to real advance in positive knowledge. Providence, however, seems in some measure to vindicate the equality of its distributions, by assigning to such a double measure of hope and self-esteem, which serves them instead of success and reputation.
The faithful discharge of the duty of the correspondence of the institution imposes a serious labor on the secretary and his assistants. Beside the correspondence above mentioned, there is added to their duties that which relates to the reception and publication of the memoirs ; to the lectures; the letters sent forth by the Institution respecting particular branches of research ; the answers to the almost imnumerable inquires as to the character of the Institution, and applications for its publications; all the business matters which relate to the printing, engraving, binding, transportation, payment of accounts; and all the foreign correspondence relating to the exchanges of publications.
All the letters received are bound in volumes, and a copy of every answer is carefully preserved, the whole thus forming a permanent record of all the transactions of the Institution, as well as a history ot the topics of scientific interest which have particularly occupied the public mind during any given period. The exposition of this labor, which has been increasing from year to year, will be a sufficient answer to the question which is sometimes asked as to what the officers of the Institution find to do.
Meteorology.—The general system of meteorology described in the last and previous reports has been continued, and though some changes have taken place among the observers, yet the number and efficiency of the corps have been kept up. New instruments have been gradually introduced, and constant unprovement has taken place with the experience of each year in the precision and accuracy of the observations. Since the beginning of the system, a large amount of valuable matter relative to the meteorology of the United States has been collected ; and the Institution has now commenced to reduce these observations, and to deduce from them the general laws which govern the climate of

<<<Page: 31>>>

this country. It is believed that such results will be obtained as will justify the amount of expenditure of the Smithsonian fund which has been devoted to this purpose.
The reductions which had been made up to the close of the last session of the Regents were presented with the annual report to Congress, and were ordered to be printed. It has been found, however, that the tables cannot be presented in an octavo form, and that a special resolution of the Senate will be required to print them in a quarto volume.
An interesting part of the meteorological observations is now ir process of reduction at Greenwich, free of expense to the Institution, by Captain Letroy, late superintendent of the ‘Toronto Observatory. He has undertaken this labor from a love of science, and has received some assistance in the way of clerk hire (as he informs me) from the fund placed in charge of the Royal Society by the British government for the promotion of science. The reduction will include not only all the observations collected by the Smithsonian Institution, but also those which can be obtained from every part of the earth during five years, beginning with 1848.
Among the questions proposed to be answered by Captam Lefroy in discussing the observations, are the following:
1. Does the aurora ever occur in low latitudes when it is wanting in higher ones?
2. Is it developed in continuous zones, or are there wide gaps in these zones; if the latter, have they any connexion with other atmospheric phenomena?
3. What are the ordinary diurnal laws of its development?
4. Can the facts be reconciled with any theory giving it a material objective existence, or is 1t an optical phenomenon ?
5. Can the facts be reconciled with the zodiacal theory ?
6. What are its geographical limits ; and what causes their singular variation from day to day?
7. Are lines of equal frequency on the globe, or equal intensity, circles at all?
Definite answers to these questions would clear the ground for the establishment of a rational theory as to the cause of this phenomenon, the want of which, after all that has been said and written upon it, is an opprobrium to the science of the present century.
The results of Captain Lefroy’s deductions will be presented in the form of a memoir to the Smithsonian Institution.
Propositions have been made during the past year to apply to government for aid in extending the meteorological system, or to transfer it from the Smithsonian Institution to the National Observatory, the Department of the Interior, or to an independent establishment supported by a direct appropriation from Congress.
In answer to these propositions the Secretary, in behalf of the Regents, has stated that it was not in accordance with the policy of the Institution to ask the aid of Congress for the purpose of carrying on any of its operations ; but that it is consistent with its policy to relmquish any line of research which can be carried on equally well by other means. If, therefore, any of the plans proposed can be accomplished, the Institution will cheerfully relinquish this field, and devote

<<<Page: 32>>>

its labors to other objects. The Institution has, however, already expended a large amount of money in collecting meteorological data, and it is due to the memory of the founder that full credit shall be given to his name for all the results which may be produced by the expenditure of the income of his bequest. This is one of the conditions on which the trust was accepted, and in case of any transfer of this kind it should be borne in mind. I may also remark, inthe same connexion, that while full credit should be given to the officers and assistants for the faithfulness and efficiency with which they discharge their duties, they should not be allowed to publish, under their own names, results which have been collected and elaborated at the expense and under the direction of the Institution. The establishment of defimite rules on this point, though a delicate matter, is one which requires attention. According to the estimate of Mr. Blodget, who is_ still employed in reducing and discussing the observations, the whole number of meteorological observers now on the books as regular contributors, or as entitled to exchange for valuable series of observations sent, or for reports regularly made in previous years is (520) five hundred and twenty. The number added during the year 1853 to the list of previous observers, and who have returned observations for some portions of the year, is (119) one hundred and nineteen. The number of manuscript series of observations in detail, or in full summaries of means and extremes of the observed conditions for each month of the whole period observed, received during the year, is (75) seventy-five, covering an ageregate period of temperature observation of eight hundred and fifty years. About half these series also include observations of amount of rain. Of printed and published series a large number have been sent.
Exchanges——The system of exchanges mentioned in the last and preceding Reports has been continued during the past year with unabated vigor and corresponding useful results. The records for 1853, as will be seen by a reference to Prof. Baird’s report, show a large increase, both in transmission and receipts, over 1852. This part of the system of Smithsonian operations has everywhere received the commendation of those who have given it their attention or have participated in its benefits. The Institution is now the principal agent of scientific and literary communication between the old world and the new. Its system of exchange is established on a reliable basis, namely : that of the publications of the Institution itself. So long as the present plan of operations is continued, the Institution will annually distribute its Contributions, and will continue to receive in return the publications of all the literary and scientific societies of the world. The importance of such a system, with reference to the scientific character of our country, could scarcely be appreciated by those who are not familar with the results which flow from an easy and certain intercommunication of this kind. Many of the most important contributions to science made in America have been unheard of in Europe, or have been so little known, or received so little attention, that they have been republished as new discoveries or claimed as the product of European research. By means of the Smithsonian system of exchange, the American author is enabled to place officially, as it were, a copy of his work in the

<<<Page: 33>>>

hands of all those who are engaged in the same line of research, and to insure due credit to himself from the countenance and support of the Institution.
The packages transmitted during the past year amounted, in the aggregate, to I, 604. They weighed “12, 220 pounds, and occupied nearly 400, cubic feet of space.
The receipts of works from abroad, in exchange for those sent out by the Institution, are much greater in value, as well as in number, than those of last year. The whole number of articles received for the library of the Institution durmg 1853, is 2,556. For other institutions, 1,052 packages have been received. The number of separate works lech these contain 1s unknown.
The Museum.—Additions during the past year have been made to the museum from all branches of natural histor y and ethnology. They are principally derived from various portions of our own country, particularly from the region between the Mississippi river and the Pacifie Ocean.
The Institution has taken the temporary charge of most of the collections of the various exploring expeditions which have been sent out during the past year. For a detailed account of the additions, I beg leave to refer to atie accompanying report of Prof. Baird.
In accordance with the spirit which should pervade all parts of the Institution, much good may be done in the way of promoting natural history by distributing duplicate specimens among the cabinets of the country and recommending the establishment, bya associations of teachers and others, of local collections, and by giving directions for conducting museums of this kind. The Institution, during the past year, has Hee good service in this way, and will continue and extend this means of “diffusing knowledge.
Researches.—T hough little has been done immediately by the insite tion, since the date Of the last Report, in the way of original research, yet it has rendered important aid to physical geography and natural history, by the facilities which it has afforded ane several exploring parties which have been fitted out during the past year, for railway and boundary surveys, in the. regions west of the Mississippi. ‘The instruments have been compared, implements constructed, and practical instruction given in the art of observation and the means of preserving specimens.
The Secretary has devoted considerable time, as a member of commissions appointed by government, to scientific investigations. These duties, as well as those above mentioned, are performed entirely without remuneration; and the Institution is thus, in various ways, repaying, to a considerable extent, whatever expenditure the government lew made on account of the Smithsonian bequest.
The Labrary.—The library during the past year has received an addition of 5,433 articles, the most valaaiale portion of which have been derived from the Smithsonian exchanges. The whole number of books, etc., now in the library is 25,856.
At its last session, Congress appropriated $3,000 to begin the pre

<<<Page: 34>>>

aration of a catalogue of its library on the Smithsonian plan proposed
y Professor Jewett. This work has been successfully prosecuted since July last; and according to Professor Jewett’s report, upwards of 6,000 volumes have been catalogued. This plan, the honor of the invention of which the Convention of Librarians has awarded to Professor Jewett, and which has been received with approbation by those well qualified to judge of its merits, is now in a fair way to be reduced to practice. The objects tu be gained by adopting it are—
1. To avoid the necessity of preparing, composing, and correcting anew the titles once printed, when the library has received accessions ; or the alternative of printing the titles of these accessions im supplements, which are very inconvenient appendages.
2. To prevent the repetition of the work of preparation of titles, composition, and correction of press, for copies of the same book in different libraries. The title once prepared and stereotyped remains at the Smithsonian Institution, to be used by any library having the same book.
3. To secure uniformity in the construction of catalogues, thus greatly facilitating the researches of the student.
For other facts and details, see Professor Jewett’s report herewith submitted.
Lectures—Lectures have been given as usual by a number of distinguished gentlemen on the following subjects:
A course of eight lectures by Dr. Robert Baird on “ Modern Europe.”
One lecture by Hon. Henry Barnard on ‘“‘ The Sehool.”
One lecture by Professor Stephen Alexander, of the College of New Jersey, on ‘** Climate.”
One lecture by Job R. Tyson, esq., of Philadelphia, “ Patrick Henry.’
One lecture by Rev. Dr. C. C. Pise, “Charles Carrol, of Carrolton’?
One lecture by Dr. E. K. Kane, U.S. N., “On the New Expedition in search of Sir John Franklin.”
A course of five lectures by Professor A. Guyot on ‘ The Harmonies of Nature and History.”
A course of seven lectures by Dr. J. V. C. Smith, of Boston, on * Modern Egypt and its Institutions.
One lecture by George Sumner, esq., on ‘¢ France.”
Lectures were also delivered during the season, in the Smithsonian lecture room, to the Washington Young Men’s Christian Association, Metropolitan Mechanics’ Institute, and the Teachers Association.
We have concluded to adopt the plan of a continued course on a single subject extending through the entire season; and for this purpose Professor J. Lawrence Smith, of the University of Virginia, has been engaged to give a full course on chemistry during the present winter.
Meeting of the Establishment—The Secretary was directed by the President of the United States to call a meeting of the members and

<<<Page: 35>>>

honorary members of the ‘‘ Smithsonian Institution,” or, in other words, of the body which is generally known by the name of the ‘ Establishment.” I may mention that this body consists of the President of the United States, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, the Mayor of Washington, the several officers of the cabinet, (excepting the Secretary of the Interior, this department having been created since the passage of the act establishing the Institution,) the Commissioner of Patents, and such other persons as they may elect honorary members. This body met in the Smithsonian building on the 3d of May, 1853, and at a subsequent meeting adopted a set of by-laws, and elected Professor Parker Cleaveland, of Bowdoin College, Maine, an honorary member.
In accordance with the third section of the act of incorporation, a full account of the proceedings of the Establishment will be given in connection with the report of the proceedings of the Board of Regents.
Respectfully submitted, JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary Smithsonian Institution. Janvaky, 1804.

<<<Page: 36>>>

Str: The following table exhibits the additions to the library during the year 1853, distinguishing the receipts by purchase, by donation and exchange, and by copy-right:
Sy a Sl %
=e o
Io} wn =
gr So ai 5 Sources. = = ‘= . = H Totals.
aw = PA o Fs &
ee ao |) eS a “|
ey eee | od) Seb heal fo By purchases seis sc/ecle/e10s/s/c\¢ Ms Ag | teeraversit ley spa veyshe| svetereteta| sptievexa’s|tavchstete 1,813 By donation and exchange. . QT Sereverste SBE arrereve esa eferatel ooreterers 2,453 By copyright. ......sssse0s TPS Ga a een 11| 1,167 Be@a6.| uaa 96, Adeo|.. cal! PUL, Losaae
The whole number of books, pamphlets, maps, engravings, and other articles at present belonging to the library, is shown by the following table :
Sv ie | 2 Sources. ‘ 2° 5 ; : Z | 2 Totals. By purchase ysseie!s e\<iere1s ais «cls 4,432 | 2,511 |1,335 2 eee dee ee eee wees 8,280 By donation and exchange..| 3,901 | 5,164 58 |1,813 neeeee 30 41 | 11,007 By Copyright case's csis’s « o\4 x 2,809 420 38 59 2,274 Sead 5,706 By deposit.<..\aeic'satasiedin scree SUS | atcroes sites laleca atatel ateravelace | BARS dbticatcc wets 873 12,015 | 8,095 {1,431 |1,874 2,274 39 | 138 | 25,866 \
The purchases during the year have been few and unimportant.
The receipts by exchange and donation have been numerous and valuable. A particular account of them is given by Professor Baird in his report upon the exchanges. It is not thought necessary, therefore, to dwell upon them here, further than to state, that many of the works thus received are of great value, from their intrinsic merit, and from the

<<<Page: 37>>>

difficulty of procuring them through the ordinary channels of the book trade.
It is much to be regretted that no measures have yet been taken for the better regulation of the copy-right deposit. I have repeatedly called attention to the subject, and in my last two reports have expressed, at considerable length, views which I hoped might lead to a revision of the law. The ieee of this Institution, of publishers, and of the literary public, require further legislation on this subject, and substantially such, it is believed, a as Was recommended in the reports alluded to.
Much inconvenience has been experienced from the delay in finishing the central building. The books stand in double rows, on most of the shelves, in the room where they are at present placed. Some of them have been injured, too, by exposure to dampness. It is impossible with the means provided to warm the room, and all who have been engaged in the library have suffered severely from colds contracted while working i in it. It has been found necessary to remove many pamphlets and papers to the basement, where they are subject to injury, and where it is dificult to consult them. The labors of the library are doubled by the want of proper accommodations. On these accounts, it is much to be desired that the main library should be finished at as early a day as possible, in order that the books may be removed toa permanent, s safe, and convenient lodgment.
Applications have been made to me during the year for the opening of the library in the evening, and some remarks on the subject have appeared in “the new spapers. It was impossible to comply with these suggestions without employing an additional attendant. ‘The present attendant i is required to be on duty from daylight 1 in the morning till five o’clock in the afternoon. It would be unjust to require services of him in the evening. Besides, no arrangements have been made for lighting the rei ding room, nor can they well be made till the building is finished. It has seemed necessary, therefore, to ea at for the present, the further consideration of the subject; which I do, with the hope that it may hereafter be found practicable to extend the time for consulting the library, if desired by any considerable number of persons.
Another topic connected with the library, to which I wish to direct the attention of the Board of Regents, is the framing of a set of bylaws and regulations for the management of the library and the use ‘of the books. I would also suggest ‘the appointment of a standing committee upon the library. Such a committee becomes the more necessary as the library becomes of more importance, both from its extent and the character of its books, and as the time is near at hand for the completion of the building, and the permanent arrangement of the collection.
The reading-room has continued to be a place of great resort for citizens and strangers. The list of periodicals is extensive, and comprises many of the best scientific and literary journals of this country and of Europe.
It is proper for me here to call attention to the desirableness of completing the series of periodicals and of transactions and journals of learned societies. But very few of our sets are complete. Inquiries are daily made for back numbers which are wanting. As it is ree
o able that we have received all or nearly all of the earlier publications

<<<Page: 38>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ol
of societies which they are able to supply, it seems advisable to furnish our agents in Europe with lists of the volumes which we possess, and authorize them to purchase, as opportunities may occur, the volumes that are wanting.
The ‘ Notices of Eablic Libraries,” prepared with considerable labor, and published three years ago by the Smithsonian Institution, is still almost daily called for, though about 6,000 copies, printed by Congress and by the Institution, have been distributed. Ve Ty few copies remain on hand. Since the book was published a large amount of additional matter has been received. ‘There is a great demand for information of this kind, and it seems desirable to issue a new and enlarged edition of the Notices. It has been impossible for me, durmg the past year, to gain time for this work, from the daily duties of the library : and the ateniiell labor which the superintendence of the catalogue system has imposed upon me.
The National Convention of Librarians and Bibliographers, which met in New York in September last, deserves to be particularly noticed in this report, on account of the frequent reference there made to the position and operations of the Smithsonian library, as well as on account of its importance to all libraries, and to the general interests of literature in this country. It was composed of more than eighty delegates, representing forty-seven libraries in all parts of the country, ‘from Maine to California.
It is gratifying to know that the services of the Smithsonian Institution, in the department of bibliography, were fully recognised by this convention in the following peaclaian, which was unanimously adopted :
“ Resolved, That the thanks of this convention be presented to the Board of Regents and officers of the Smithsonian Institution for their steady and pHecaae efforts tor the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men}; and particularly forthe measures which they have adopted for ihe encouragement and promotion of the publie libraries of our country ; and we have great pleasure in looking to that Institution as the central establishment of the United States fon the furtherance of all such objects.”
The convention also passed the followi ing resolutions relative to the great central library of reference and research which it has been the intention of Congress to establish at the Smithsonian Institution :
“ Resolved, That the establishment of a great central librar y for reference and research, while it is demanded by the condition of the United States as to general civilization and intellectual advancement, is especially interesting to this convention from the bearing it would have upon libraries throughout the country.
* Resolved, 'That we deem such an establishment as being eminently
* ‘worthy of support from the national treasury; and that in no way can the government better promote the progress of learning through the whole country, than by placing a central national library under the administration of the Smithsonian Institution.” » Among the topics which received particular attention at this convention was che preparation of a convenient manual as a guide to the organization of library societies, the collection of libraries , and their proper management. A committee was appointed to digest the plan

<<<Page: 39>>>

ae EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
of such awork. So impressed were the members of the convention with its importance, that ‘the business committee were requested to consider the expediency of memorializing Congress to procure the preparation of such a manual through the agency “of the Smithsonian Institution.”
Every week, and almost every day, applications are made at this Institution, by letter or by visitors, for information which a book of this kind would contain. The answers have to be many times repeated. I have consequently had the intention of preparing such a manual. The collections for the purpose are mostly made. The volume of statistics and descriptions of libraries was an important antecedent. The development of the catalogue system mustalso precede any systematic and well considered work of the kind. The period has now come for the fulfilment of this design, and I hope to be enabled and to be authorizedto devote such time as may be necessary to its execution.
The library interest has become in this country one of rare magnitude and importance. Nothing can be done by the government, by this Institution, or by individuals here, which tends to promote the establishment or the efficiency of libraries, without bemg noticed and gratefully appreciated by all the intelligent and educated men of all parties and names, mm every city and aa every village and hamlet throughout the land. Every city has its library, so has almost every village, and so have a large number of our common schools. Familiar as this fact is to many of us, it presents a new phase of society, and one indicative of mighty influences. The library is the necessary complement of the school. To teach children to réad and then give them nothing to supply the desire awakened is mockery. It is reading rather than school-training which has produced the general intelligence of the American people. These libraries must be of various grades— the school and social library of pepular Baeuen books of history, biog-
raphy, and general literature for reading; the larger collections in cities for more general study and reference ; ‘and the great central library for learned investigations. These should all be linked and bound together in one voluntary yet harmonious system. Such is the general wish
oO most emphatically expressed
a wish which the Smithsonian Institutioh may do much to cherish and to realize.
Tt now remains for me to speak of the progress which has been made during the year upon the catalogue system.
A new and greatly enlarged and improved edition of the report, containing an account of the system, rules for the preparation of catalogues, and (as ex examples under the rules) the catalogue of the bibliographical works in the Smithsonian library, has been prepared and stereotyped. An edition of a thousand copies, as far as to the examples, has been printed. The printers have since been employed upon the catalogue of the Library of Congress, and consequently the work upon the report has been suspended. It would require but a few weeks and an inconsiderable additional expenditure of money to complete this work. The calls for it are frequent, and I feel very desirous of being able to answer them at an early day. The book will probably contain about three hundred pages.
At the last session of the Board of Regents, a resolution was passed,

<<<Page: 40>>>

requesting the Secretary of the Institution to call the attention of the joint Library Committee of Congress to the Smithsonian plan of cataloguing, and to the advantages—economical and literary—which would acerue to the Library of Congress and to other libraries, by their adoption of this plan. The committee examined the subject, and recommended to Congress an appropriation of three thousand dollars for commencing a catalogue. ‘The work was begun in July last, and has proceeded most prosperously till the present time. Upwards of six thousand volumes have already been catalogued, and about one third of the appropriation remains unexpended. ‘The consideration of the magnitude ot the enterprise thus commenced, has led to great caution in adopting the rules establishing precedents. <A great part of my time has necessarily been given to fhe work. Less will prob: ibly be required for the future.
I have so frequently and at so much length explained the details and the advantages of the system, that it is not necessary for me to dwell upon them at present, except very briefly.
The title of every work and of each distinct edition of ev ery work is stereotyped upon a separate plate. ‘The author’s name also stands on a plate by itself. Each plate shows at a glance the heading to which it belongs. It is obvious that these plates may be placed together in alphabetical or other order, as may be desired. ‘They are mounted on blocks for printing, like other stereotype plates.
The great ends to be gained and which will thus be secured, are
ili, To avoid the necessity of preparing, composing , and correcting anew the titles once printed, when the library has received accessions, or the alternative of printing the titles of these accessions in supplements, which are very inconvenient appendages.
2. To prevent the repetition of the work of preparation of titles, com-
osition and correction of press, for copies of the same book in different
libraries. The title, once prepared and stereotyped, remains at the Smithsonian Institution, to be used by any library having the same book.
3. To secure uniformity in the constfaction of catalogues, thus greatly facilitating the researches of the student.
It is obvious that the cost of the first catalogue will be greater than if it Were not stereotyped. The work of preparation will also be more expensive ; but the additional cost of the first edition will be more than
saved in the first re-printing of the whole catalogue. It will be further understood that the sum paid by the first library is not only for its own benefit, but for that of every other library hereafter adopting the plan, so far as its books are the #me. Congress is, therefore, now conterring a great boon upon other fierce while at the same time it is taking fie course the most economical for the procuring of its own catalogue.
Tt will be remembered that we bad two classes of difficulties to meet, the one literary and the other mechanical. The theory of the system had first to be perfected in all its details. The practical apph-
cation had then to be made. The time and money which have been expended in Europe in discussions connected with the subject of the best methods of cataloguing, indicate the difficulty of the theory. Prac-

<<<Page: 41>>>

tical stereotypers pronounced the scheme impracticable. A new mode of stereotyping, with a new material, had to be introduced, per fected, and applied for the purpose. There is no art so difficult of improvement as that of typography. These statements will indicate the mechanical difficulties which have been overcome.
It is gratifying to be able to state that the new process of stereotyping which we have adopted for this purpose is likely to be introduced into use on a large scale. The benefits which the Institution will thus have conferred upon the most perfect and most important of the arts, apart from the connexion of these improvements with the catalogue system, will not be the least among its achievements, as the efforts | by which this end has been attained have not been the least of its labors.
Impressed as 1 was with the importance of the subject, and confident as I felt of its entire practicability in every particular, 1 was desirous that it should be fully discussed by librarians and practical bibliographers, as well as by printers , stereotypers, and experts in the typographical art. The convention 6 which [ have alluded afforded a rare opportunity for this examination of our plans, and a fair and intelligent estimate of their value. Tintroduced the subject and invited diseussion. It was manifest that those who were present had come together having formed various opinions as to the practicability of the scheme, though with but one sentiment as to its desirableness. The matter was ‘discussed a whole day with freedom, and with the manitest desire to arrive at a just conclusion. I take great pleasure in quoting the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted, as embodying the results of the long 2, careful, and interested examination:
‘¢ Resolved, That we have considered attentively the plan for constructing catalogues of libraries, and a general catalogue of the public libraries of the United States, by means of separate “ster eotype titles, originated and prepared by Prof. C. C. Jewett, and developed by him while librarian of the Smithsonian Institution. That we regard it as an object of high importance to the interests of our public libraries, and to the promotion of learning, ard worthy to share in the funds of the Institution and the zealous exertions of its officers; the more so as it is an enterprise which cannot be successfully prosecuted, except under the guidance, protection, and pecuniary support of this central establishme mt for the increase and diffusion of knowledge.
** Resolved, 'Vhat we have learned with pleasure that Congress, on the recommendation of the library committee, made an appropriation for the practical testing of the plan in its application to the Library of Congress, and that the work is now in successtigl progress.
‘© Resolved, That, as practical hbrarians and bibliographers, we take pride and satisfaction in the fact that a measure of so great literary utility has received the prompt and efficient support of our ponoral legislature ; ; and we would express the earnest hope that this support may be extended to it liberally, till its first ereat result in the complete stereotyped catalogue of the Libr ary of Congress shall be attained.’
We may reasonably congratulate ourselves upon. the complete success of these plans up to 1 present point. They still need the fostering care of this Institution. As soon as he catalogue of the Library of

<<<Page: 42>>>

Congress shall be completed, other institutions, and even individuals, are ready to avail themselves of the scheme for procuring their catalogues. Its general adoption—the crowning point of all our efforts— seems, therefore, as sure as the completion of the first work.
It is manifest that appropriations will every year be necessary from the Smithsonian fund for the procuring of type, apparatus, and fixtures, as well as for filling any intervals that may occur in the continuity ot the work. But it seems now quite certain that the system will ere long grow up into a large and _ self-supporting establishment, regulated by the combined libraries of the country.
Respectfully submitted. C. C. JEWETT.
To JoseruH Henry, LL.D.,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 43>>>

Sir: I herewith present to you the report of operations for the year 1853, in the departments assigned to my superintendence.
During the year 1853, a much larger amount of matter has been printed and published by the Smithsonian Institution than in any year since the commencement of its operations. 'T'wo volumes of the quarto series have been completed, of which one has been distributed and the other is nearly ready. The following list contains the titles of the papers in these volumes.
List of Memoirs in Vol. V, Smithsonian Contributions.
1. Introduction ; pp. 16.
2. A Flora and Fauna within living animals. By Joseph Leidy, M. D.; pp. 68, and ten plates.
3. Memoir on the Extinct Species of American Ox. By Joseph Leidy, M. D.; pp. 20, and five plates.
4, Anatomy of the Nervous System of Rana Pipiens. By Jeflries Wyman, M. D.; pp52, and two plates.
5). Nereis Boreali-Americana, or Contributions to the History of the Marine Algze of North America. By William Henry Harvey, M. D.,M. R.I. A; Part II. Rhodospermez ; pp. 262, and twentyfour plates.
6. Plantee Wrightianwe Texano-Neo-Mexicane; Part I, An Account of a Collection of Plants, made by Charles Wright, A. M., in Western Texas, New Mexico, and Sonora, in the years 185] and 1852. By Asa Gray, M. D.; pp. 120, and four plates.
Vol. VI, Smithsonian Contributions.
Introduction ; pp. 16.
Plante Fremontianze, or Description of Plants aa in California by Col. J. C. Fremont. By John Torrey, F. L.8.; pp. 24, and ten plates.
3. ee on the Batis Maritima of Linnwus. By Jobn Torrey,
F. L. 8.; pp. 8, and one plate.
4. On the ae tates Californica, a new Pitcher Plant from Northern
California. “By John Torrey, F. L. 8.; pp. 8, and one plate.
5. Synopsis of the Marine Invertebrata of Grand Manan, or the Region about the Bay of Fundy. By William Stimpson, pp: 68, ‘and three plates.
6. On the Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. By James H. Cofhn,
Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, in Lafayette
College; pp. 200, and thirteen plates.

<<<Page: 44>>>

7. The Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, or a Description of Remains of Extinct Mammalia and Chelonia, from the Mauvaises Terres of Nebraska. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania; pp. 126, and twenty-five plates.
8. Occultations for 1853.
WMoaluneuV contains pages.\-\ 2/7. 2.eclehsas a. ¢ 538—plates 45 Wolume V1 contains. pases” 22 2-722.) -/.98eeae 476—plates 53 Or an aggregate of quarto publications.......-....1,014 98
Of these volumes, volume V has been distributed. Volume VI has not yet been bound up, but will be delivered and distributed early in 1854.
In addition to the above, several memoirs tor the seventh volume are in hand, and the engravings nearly complete ; among these are :
Chappellsmith, on the Tornado of Indiana.
Leidy, on the Extinct Sloths of North America.
Bailey, on New Microscopic Forms.
The octavo publications have also been of considerable extent, and are as follows:
Seventh Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, for 1852; pp. 96.
Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for 1852; pp. dl.
Catalogue of North American Reptiles in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. Part 1—Serpents. ByS. F. Baird and C. Girard, pp: 188.
Catalogue of the described Coleoptera of the United States. By Frederick Ernst Melsheimer, M. D. Revised by 8. 8. Haldeman and J. L. Le Conte, pp. 190.
In addition to these a large number of circulars, relating to various subjects, has been printed.
2. DistRIBUTIO NOF PUBLICATIONS AND K/;.XCHANGES.
(a.) Foreign Distributions and Exchanges.
The records of foreign distributions and exchanges for the year 1853, show a large increase, both in transmissions and receipts, over 1852, thus exhibiting a steady enlargement of the sphere and extent of operations, gratifying to all who are interested in the speedy diffusion of knowledge throughout the world. As in past years, the Smithsonian Institution has been a most important medium of communication between the American scientific societies and their Kuropean correspondents.
The names of the institutions making use of the facilities afforded by the Smithsonian Institution, as well as the complete statistics of the whole business, will be found detailed in the accompanying tables.
The packages, amounting in the aggregate to 1,604, bearing 567 addresses, weighing 12,220 pounds, and occupying nearly 400 cubic feet of capacity, all left the Institution in May, and tor a large number

<<<Page: 45>>>

of these packages acknowledgments have already been received. ‘The names of institutions receiving the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 258 in number, will be found in the table. Nearly 400, however, have received publications of some kind from the Institution ; the total number of addresses, including those parcels sent by others, being 567, as already stated.
A.—TABLE EXHIBITING THE STATISTICS OF PRINTED MATTER SENT ABROAD IN 1852, By THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
1. Distributed by Dr. J. G. Fliigel, Leipsic.
petite Ss 3 S 3 a ; | og ag] 3 y ahs | eros z ie ae D4 Ep = op Fal of) ante r= = = | he ws Sees ao} ao ah i) > ms) Oo | 53 we | os] of Sy S | a8 Countries. 2a juno os | no] ae = Pee oe, no, | 9-o ne One, 2° ~~ > e Ba PBS | as) |e as tex | i fan Olen se Ste, | ee ease | ta sidlicoe Al oe 3 Bleg| 35 Sao more 9 =: 3 3S ° = 3 e) oF
< =< a Z Ay Ay B (Sy eT ae |
Sweden. .ice ceels 7 hh. |szate eters le 20 QM ic¥oretats aoocopanted cdlese4ior Norway..... see. 4 Di ivefevets 7 12 I eAponkaccoondloosdadedlsor iceland! sists 3, TDi erefovevetelsve otere-d Q ee Retake oracartts BAA HIRKCIE ho Hicacitec) ORO Denmark. <i seirs id Al ersiortscclige 4. 2B} Fy Al Ste acaba teteodet eh ay die licuokaicl cponsiced inayat IRTISSIa.siajeserertse cies 15 Gul tejctorersle oe 42 dialer SeMohod ore beea | sane Hlollanad'sci5..ctesyen 12 BRAD GE 23 34 AB itor srailtekercletotetel lel celal Cele ate Germany .......| 85 HSilve cece doou|mlsll GB" [lore 6 10/0)|s.s:0:ci0%0 0:<|ho) o:0:0|'e oisial elereio Belgium........ 9 Obasec 18 34 B)4l.cfaieie;e\llecekelatcreleys|{alele\¢||ar0 oie] iolela's) « Switzerland...... 13 Di lelerels ore 19 49 6 5 ss eeleeee eeees Total (Acer ltanloo 90 | 243 | 287 | 396 | 103 | 786 | 6,250 }200 | 25 190
2. Distributed by Hector Bossange, Pars.
ne Zz aU no] ss 2 Tet Seas Soe eS S 3 = 5. rel posi = 2] Sa | 2. 5 =| es ta o.8 ao) 25 Ow re) ) a) ; os | oo wf | 5S] 58 1 MG 55 Countries. 23 | 28 SiS mmo | aes lees a | © Be 2 | 2S S| &e | doc = =| . | a Brg | Bee | gee | meen lias = | 3 |S | e-2 ey rset is BS est | cece 7 ibe lees 3 fy ||| bel Sau Sin aie! io) ~ a 3 °o 3 i=) om
elec ee eta ete Cs a Ee 1O4d aha BRIRICO:, ctieviienefal. DO! Grea stors 80),|. 102: I POO eal ee ergata 5 ieleeae eee « Ttaly..oie cscecse 36 13 eee 43 56 15 eeersle eer eeeeee eoeeeeee ee aee Motallsrsferes.s'ae 9] 39F 1308) 6123) |e 58 AAY 19325 92,250! (Eo Fi 110

<<<Page: 46>>>

London.
THE SMITHSONIAN 3. Distributed through the Royal Society and the agency of Henry Stevens,
| -sefeyord Surdu ; 4 ‘sapeyoed Sura aoe | | ‘saneyord Sukurdutosor = $107}0'T : -edutos0v $.10440'T eal _-edutoo0R 8.10})0"T Sir tie = Soba | ——— “ye qno ut Ayordeg | er) omieree ls ‘yqno ut Aytoedey | ae Ee ye qno ur Ayoedep | SRaR |S ear ae | e2e>|s Deg een ee | -spunod ut yySta AA tate a ili ‘spunod ut 4.510 AA re a | ‘spunod urqysiayy | AAA | R | an Rr naa | OGRA Q e Leal . . | | ee | oe sal he pou: | 2828 |= *‘[PI0OL es eles ‘TPIOL, Bee Wee ‘TRIOL ~ a= So aug : ee . S| ee = Fe Aa ee eles s o : Ee sa SA | “SLayJO 1OF ten ed ie 5 *S1aY}O TOF Oe nee aS | *s10YJO TOF Bos ia posojoua sasvyorg S pasopaua saseyorg S | pasojoua seseyorg | QX = O = Seal pa ee ~ | *s1aq}O WOLF SSS |r = “s1ayyJO ULOTT Teh ee S | *Sqat}JO WOLy a eto aces pasooue sos eyorg a = 3 pasopoua saseyorg aH | pasofoue sasvyord 0 a Ss ‘saseyord ped GTEOI ER re | GR = ‘saseyoed ped 20 sor) s | ‘saseyord jed ee enlaceioulid Jo taquin NY a ae gee -routsd Jo Toquin jy s | -routad jo taquin NT Mites = ~ si z = > | Peele a ils | 2228 |5 “TROL, aie: -genoe | he ‘TRI0.L PDE) ee ae | TBR |. ecoes = nice As =a -: ‘Sutpaoeid ut NOH R | -Burpooord ut SAtR | 9 I ! ! d I ! paso[ous sassa.ppy : pasopoue sassaippy * | Pee toueees say, ins ‘sooeyord jedio iaectscorsctelel ieras ‘saoevyord jedio iS ales ‘soseyord y[edio Fg) eal ae | Mow BI (oy a S [eet me | o Pil [eat INAS | Dulid Jo sasseippy i -utid Jo sassaippy -uud jJosassaippy | ~~ ™ Ge ee . ry erie . | mm 2 @ «6 . eS eeecuee: eee: gcse a arons) fs C w oo a ‘ Sen wales ; 20 °&0. . 2) . 5 e | n a (eB . 5 asia ks 5 rar elie =| PAS io kee S a 4s os S etloa ® gas: & 5 Sins © 5 2 2 Sy Rom © Ss) eee 2 ence naa gs a | ro . ons 5 = 90 hoe eS Ye < On Ato

<<<Page: 47>>>

40 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF B.—TAaABLE EXHIBITING THE NUMBER OF PIECES RECEIVED FROM
Obtained by the Smithsoman Institution from various sources,
but -exclusive tot its own] publications: {2.0 .4... -: 2,410 Boston Society of Natural History, Boston............ sea GA American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston........-1i2 American: Jousnal ofsscrenee Se pom ee ots es Cee 30 American Oriental Society, New tiaven. 22... -.<..4Lak eee Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia. -.-.....-..fA GO American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia... .. pegs SO 9/2 U.S. Coast: Survey .ecice= Sees eens thine 2 Bes eead 131 Patent Oee seer a Se ee ee ee ob eee 100 Typographical BuceaneSass he eet ee eee | eee oe 30 Indian ‘Bureaus 22 Se os eo a eee re os a 168 Light House Boards a) 2.252 2a. ee ieee tern es Es 5 Secretary of the Neawayce: 02 Je Soh ee eta ete 29 J. Ross Brownes o222 cay ee ee See yee A 2 ee 170 Miscellaneous institutions and individuals.......2.-2-SERED tS)
— 1,444 ‘Lotal’ received tcicaie ee aes, 2 oo ee epee co eae 3,854
Most of the above consisted of single volumes; a number, however, were packages with several enclosures, which would probably bring
the number of volumes to 4,000.
APPENDIX C. Last of Forexgn Institutrons in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. SWEDEN.
Goteborg.—Kongl. Vetenskaps och Vitterhets Samhillet. *Lund.—Kongl. Universitetet. Observatory.
* Stockholm.—Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien.
Kongl. Landbruks-Akademien.
*Kongl. Vitterhets Historie och Antiquitets Akademien.
*Riksbiblioteket.
Svenska Akademien. *Upsala.—Kongliga Vetenskaps Societeten.
*Kongl. Universitetet.
Those marked * have received the fifth volume of ‘‘Contributions.’’ The others have received separate memoirs and other publications.

<<<Page: 48>>>

* Bergen.—Bergen’s Museum.
*Christiama.—Det Kongelige Norske Universitet. Observatory. Physiographiske Forening.
Drontheim.—Det Kongel. Norske Videnskabernes Selskab.
ICELAND. * Reykgavik.—lslands Stftisbokasatn. DENMARK.
* Copenhagen.—Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab. *Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. *Kongelige Bibliothek. Kénigliches dinische Seecharten Archiv. Observatory. Skandinaviske Naturforskeres Forsamling.
Dorpat.—Gelehrte Estnische Gesellschaft zu Dorpat. *Observatoire Impérial. * Helsingfors.—Societas Scientiarum Fennica. *Kasan.—University Library. * Mittau.—Kurlandische Gesellschaft fiir Literatur und Kunst. * Moscow.—Société Impériale des Naturalistes de Moscou. Pulkowa.—Observatoire Impérial. *S¢. Petersburg —Académie Impériale des Sciences. Depot of Naval Charts of Russia. Geodetic Survey of Russia. *Imperial Public Library. *Kais. Russ. Mineralogische Gesellschatt. *L’Etat Major du Corps des Ingénieurs des Mines de Russie. *Observatoire Physique Central de Russie. *Société Impériale d’Archéologie.
* Amsterdam.—Académie Royale des Sciences a Amsterdam. Genootschap Natura Artis Magistra. Zoological Garden. * Gronungen.—Academia Groningana. * Haarlem.—Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. * Hague.—Bibliothéque Royale. Leyden.—Botanical Society of the Netherlands. Musée d’ Histoire Naturelle. *University Library.

<<<Page: 49>>>

* Middelburg.—Zeeuwsche Genootschap der Wetenschappen.
*Rotterdam.—Bataatsch Genootschap der proefondervindelijke Wijsbegeerte te Rotterdam.
* Utrecht.—Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen.
Zwolle.—(Overyssel.)—Overysselsche Vereeniging tot Ontwikkeling van Provinciale Helvaart.
* Altenburg.—Naturforschende Gesellschatt. Altona.—Geodetic Survey of Holstein. Observatory. Berlin.—Anstalt des topographischen Bureaus im general Stabe. Deutsche Geologische Gesellschatt. *Geographische Gesellschaft. Gesellschaft ftir Erdkunde. *Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Gewerbe Institut. Ingenieur Schule. *Konigliche Bibliothek. Kénigliches Landes Giconomie Collegium. *Konigliches Museum. *Koniglich, Preussische Akademie der Wissenschatten zu Berlin. Observatory. Wiegman’s Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. * Blankenberg.—Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein des Harzes. * Bonn.—Naturhistorischer Verein des preussischen Rheinlandes und Westphalens. Observatory *University Library. * Bremen.—Stadt-Bibliothek. * Breslau.—Kaiserliche Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Akademie der Naturforscher. * Dantzig.—Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Darmstadt.—Grossherzogliche Bibliothek. Deidesheim.—Pollichia. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein der bayerischen Pfalz. * Dresden.—King of Saxony.
*Konigliche Bibliothek.
K. Sammlung fiir Kunst u. Wissenschaften. Dusseldorf—Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde Westphalens. Emden.—Naturtorschende Gesellschaft.
Exfurt—Akademie Gemeinniitziger Wissenschaften.
* Erlangen.—Konigliche Universitit. £
*Frankfurt am Main.—Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. * Freiberg.—Koniglich-Sachsische Bergakademie.
* Frevburg.—University Library.
* Giessen.—University Library.
* Gorlitz—Naturforschende Gesellschaft.
* Géttingen.—Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften.

<<<Page: 50>>>

Gottingen —*Konigliche Universitat.
Gotha.—Royal Library.
Grdétz.—University Library.
Greifswald. K.. P. Staats u. Landwirthschaftl. Akademie Eldena.
*University Library.
Haile.—Deutsche Morgenlandische Gesellschaft. Naturforschende Gesellschatt. *Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein in Halle. Thtiringisch-sachsischer Verein.
*University Library.
Hamburg.—Commerz Bibliothek.
Museum. *Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Observatory.
*Stadt-Bibliothek.
* Hannover.—Konigliche Bibliothek.
* Heidelberg.—Grossnerzoglich-Badische Universitat.
*Innsbriick—University Library.
*Ferdinandeum.
*Jena.—Grossherzogl. herzog]. siichs. Gesammt-Universitat.
* Karlsruhe.—Grossherzogliche Hof bibliothek.
* Kiel— Academia Christiana Albertina.
* Konigsberg.—Observatory.
University Library.
Kremsmiinster.—Observatory.
Leipsic.—Dr. J. G. Fligel.
Fiirstlich-Jablonowski’sche Gesellschaft. *K6niglich-Siachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschatten. *Stadt-Bibliothek. University Library. Mannheim.—Mannheimer Verein fiir Naturkunde. *Marburg—Gesellschaft zur Beférderung der gesammten Naturwissenschaften. *University Library.
* Meissen.—Isis.
Merseburg.—Central Direction fiir die Provinz Sachsen.
*Munich.—Kniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissenchaften.
*Ko6nigliche Hof und Staats-Bibliothek. Observatory. Polytechnic School.
New Wred.—Maximilian Prinz von Wied.
* Niirnberg.—Naturhistorische Gesellschaft.
Olmiitz— University Library.
* Pesth.—Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft.
*University Library. *Prag.—Das Béhmische Museum. K. K. patriotisch oekonomische Gesellschatt. *K. K. Universitat. *K6niglich-Béhmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Regensburg.—K. Baierische Botanische Gesellschatt. * Rostock.—University Library.

<<<Page: 51>>>

* Stettin.—Entomologischer Verein. * Stuttgart.—KoGnigliche 6ffentliche Bibliothek.
Verein fiir Vaterlindische Naturkunde. Tharand.—Konigliche Akademie fiir Forst u. Landwirthe. * Tiibingen.—Konigliche Universitat.
* Vienna.—Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. *K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. *K. K. Hofbibliothek. K. K. Hof-u. Staatsdruckerei. K. K. Naturalien Kabinet. *K. K. Orientalische Akademie. Observatory. *University Library. Zoologisch-botanischer Verein. * Wiirzburg.—Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschatt. *University Library. _ Wiirttemberg.—Der Verein fiir Vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wiirttem berg.
* Basel—Die Gesellschaft fur Vaterlandische Alterthiimer in Basel. College of Basel. *Naturforschende Gesellschatt. Bern.—College of Bern. *Alloemeine Schweizerische Gesellschaft ftir die gesammten Naturwissenschaften. *Naturtorschende Gesellschatt. * Genéve.-—Bibliothéque de la ville de Genéve. Observatoire de Genéve. *Société de Physique et d’ Histoire Naturelle de Geneve. Lausanne.—Société Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. * Neuchatel.—Société des Sciences Naturelles. Ziirich—College of Zurich. *Gesellschaft fiir vaterlandische Alterthiimer in Ztirich. *Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Ztirich.
Antwerp.—Académie d’ Archéologie. Bruges.—Société des Sciences Naturelles. * Bruxelles—Académie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des BeauxArts. Bibliotheque Royale de Belgique. *Observatoire Royal. *City Library. *Gand.—Université de Gand. *Tiege.—Société Royale des Sciences de Liége. * Louvain.— Université Catholique. * Mons.—Société des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres, du Hainaut.

<<<Page: 52>>>

Angers.—Société d Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Angouléme.—Société d’ Agriculture, Arts et Commerce. Arras.—Société d’ Arras. Bayeux.—Société d’ Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Besangon.— Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. * Bordeaux.— Académie Nationale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. *Société Linnéenne de Bordeaux. Brest—Académie Navale. *Caen.—Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Société des Antiquaires de Normandie. Société Linnéenne de Normandie. *Charente-—Soc. d’ Agriculture, Arts, et Commerce du Dép. de la Charente. Cherbourg.—Société Académique de Cherbourg. Société des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg. ClermontFerrand.—Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Clermont-Ferrand. Diyon.—Académie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres de Dijon. Evreux.—Société Libre d’ Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Le Mans.—Société d’ Agriculture, Science et Arts. Tille.—Société Nationale des Sciences, de l’ Agriculture et des Arts. *Lyon.—Société Nationale de l’Agriculture, d’Histoire Naturelle et des Arts Utiles de Lyon. *Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon. *Société Linnéenne de Lyon. Marseilles —Académie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts. Mende.—Société d’ Agriculture, Cormmerce, Sciences et Arts. * Metz.— Académie Nationale de Metz. Société d’Histoire Naturelle. * Montpellier.—Société Archéologique de Montpellier. Académie des Sciences et Lettres a Montpellier. * Nimes.— Académie du Gard. * Orleans.—Société des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts d’Orléans. * Paris—Bibliothéque de la Ville de Paris. *Bibliotheque du Jardin des Plantes. *Bibliothéque Impériale. Bureau des Lougitudes. *Dépot des Cartes et Plans. *Ecole Nationale des Mines. *Institut de France. *Institut Historique de France. *Ministére de la Guerre. *Ministére de Ja Marine. *Ministére de l’Instruction publique et des Cultes. Observatoire. *Société des Antiquaires. *Société Asiatique. *Société de Géographie. Société de l’Ecole des Chartes.

<<<Page: 53>>>

Paris.—Société Entomologique. *Société Ethnologique. Société Frangaise de Statistique Universelle. *Société Géologique de France. Société Impériale d’ Horticulture de Paris. Société Météorologique de France. Société Nationale des Antiquaries de France. Société Nationale et Centrale d’ Agriculture. Société Philomatique. Reims.—Académie de Reims. * Rowen.—Académie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Rouen. SaintQuentin.—Société des Sciences, Arts, Belles-Lettres, et Agriculture. * Strasbourg.—Société des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts, du Bas Rhin. *Académie des Sciences Naturelles. Toulon.—Académie Navale. * Toulouse.—Académie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres de Toulouse. Tours.—Société d’Agriculture, des Sciences, d’Arts, et des BellesLettres. Trevoux.—Société d’ Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Troyes.—Société d’Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres.
* Bologna.—Accademia delle Scienze dell’ Istituto di Bologna. Brescia.—Ateneo di Brescia. Catania.—Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Chamberry.—Société Royale Académique de Savoie. Florence.—Accademia del Cimento. *Biblioteca Magliabecchiana. Imperiale e Reale Museo di Fisica e Storia naturale di Firenze. Observatory. Genoa.—Accademia delle Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti. Accademia Medico-chirurgica di Genova. *Lucca.—Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. * Milan.—Biblioteca Brera. *Imperiale Regio Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. *Museo Civico. Modena.—Obdservatory. *Societa Italiana delle Scienze. Naples.—Accademia degli Aspiranti Naturalisti. Observatory. *Reale Accademia delle Scienze, e Belle Lettere. * Palermo.—Accademia Palermitana di Scienze e Lettere. Observatory. *Padua.—Imperiale Regia Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti di Padova. Pisa.—Accademia Valdarnese del Poggio.

<<<Page: 54>>>

*Pisa.— University Library. Ravenna.—Societa Ravennate. *Rome.—Accademia Romana di Archeologia. * *Accademia Pontifica dei Nuovi Lincei. *Biblioteca Vaticana. British Academy of Fine Arts. Correspondenza Scientifica in Roma. Osservatorio Astronomico del Collegio Romano. Siena.—Accademia delle Scienze. * Turin.—Accademia Reale delle Scienze. *Venice.—Biblioteca Marciana. I. R. Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Naval School. * Verona.—Accademia d’ Agricoltura, Commercio ed Arti di Verona.
PORTUGAL. *Tisbon.—Academia Real dos Sciencias.
*Madrd.—Real Academia Espafola. *Real Academia de Ciencias de Madrid. *Real Academia de la Historia. *Biblioteca Real.
Bath.—Bath and West of England Agricultural Society. Belfast—Belfast Institution.
*Library of Queen’s College.
*Natural History and Philosophical Society. Berwick-onTweed.—Berwickshire Naturalists’ Club. *Cambridge——Cambridge Philosophical Society.
*Cambridge Observatory. *University Library. *Cork.—Library of Queen’s College. Royal Cork Institution. Dubln.—Botanical Society.
Dublin University Philosophical Society.
Geological Society of Dublin.
*Library of Trinity College.
*Royal Dublin Society.
Royal Irish Academy. Edinburgh.—Botanical Society.
*Library of Faculty of Advocates.
Royal Institution for Encouragement of Fine Arts in Scotland
*Royal Observatory.
Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh.
*Royal Scottish Society of Arts.

<<<Page: 55>>>

* Edinburgh.—Royal Society
*Society of Antiquaries of Scotland.
*University Library.
*Wernerian Society of Natural History. . *Galway.—Library of Queen’s College. Glasgow.—Andersonian Institute.
*University Library. * Greenwich.—Royal Observatory. *Leeds——Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society. *Liverpool.—F ree Public Library, Museum and Gallery of Art, of the Town of Liverpool. Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire. Observatory. Royal Institution. London.—Aborigines Protection Society. Annals and Magazine of Natural History. *Archeeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. *Athenzeum Club. *Board of Admiralty. *British Archeological Association. *British Association for the Advancement of Science. *British Museum. *Chemical Society of London. Department of Practical Art. Entomological Society. *Ethnological Society of London. *Geological Society of London. *Horticultural Society of London. Institute of Actuaries. *Institution of Civil Engineers. *Library of Corporation of City of London. *Library of Committee of Privy Council for Trade. *Library of Eaton College. *Library of the Hon. the East India Company. *Library of the House of Commons. *Linnzean Society. *London Institution (Finsbury). *London Library. Meteorological Society. *Microscopical Society. *Museum of Practical Geology. *Philological Society. *Queen’s Library. *Royal Agricultural Society of England. *Royal Asiatic Society. Royal Astronomical Society. *Royal College of Surgeons of England. *Royal Geographical Society of London. *Royal Institution of Great Britain. Royal Society of Literature. *Royal Society of London.

<<<Page: 56>>>

London.—*Society of Antiquaries of London.
*Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce.
*Statistical Society of London.
Syro-Egyptian Society.
*Zoological Society of London. * Manchester—Manchester Free Library and Museum.
*Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester. Maynooth.—College Library. . Newcastle-uponTyne-—Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham, and Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Oxford. Ashmolean Society.
*Bodleian Library.
*Radcliffe Observatory. Penzance-—Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society.
*Royal Geological Society of Cornwall.
Salford.—Salford Borough Royal Museum and Library. * Si. Andrews.—University Library. * Woolwich.— Military Academy.
* Athens —University Library. TURKEY.
Constantmople.—Société Orientale de Constantinople.*Library of the Sultan.
*Grand Cairo.—The Egyptian Society. * Liberia.— Government Library. Mauritius.—Société d’ Histoire Naturelle de l’Isle Maurice.
* Allahabad.—Mission College. * Bataria.—Bataviaasche Genootschap van Konsten en Wetenschappen. *Bombay.—Royal Asiatic Society.
*Geographical Society. *Calcutta.—Asiatic Society.
Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. *Ceylon.—Asiatic Society.
Batticotta Seminary.
* Hong Kong.—Asiatic Society of China. *Madras.—Literary Society. *Manilla.—Royal Economical Society of the Phillipine Islands.
Launceton.—Launceton Library. Hobarton.—Royal Society of Van Diemen’s Land. 4

<<<Page: 57>>>

* Bogota.—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. * Brazil— Rio Janevro.—Imperial Brazilian Historical Society. Royal Geological Society. Sociedad auxiliadora de Industria Nacional. *Caracas.—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. * Chilt.—Santiago.— Biblioteca Nacional. Observatory of Santiago. *University Library. Demerara.—Queen’s College. *Guatemala.—Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. * Habana.—Real Sociedad Economica. Mezxico.—Mexico.—"E| Minerea. El Museo Nacional. Navy and War Tribunal. *Sociedad Mexicana de Geografia y Estadistica. Pueblo.—Colegio Palatoxano y de Pantaleon. Vera Cruz.—Public Institute.
The receipts of works from abroad, in exchange for those sent out by the Smithsonian Institution, are much greater than those of last yearMany of these were of very great value, comprising a large number of more or less complete series of transactions and periodicals. For an enumeration of these, I would refer to the Report of the Assistant Secretary in charge of the Library.
D.—TaBLE EXHIBITING THE NUMBER OF PIECES RECEIVED IN EXCHANGE FROM ABROAD, IN 1853.
Volumes.—F olio and: quarto. Fe sae. ee sed eel os SS oll Octavo 22.2 25.02 ep eis Beier oats 929 —— 1,440) Parts of volumes and Pamphlets—Quarto........--.----303 CAROLE. 5 ame 688 — 99} Maps andenpravings: 2. 42... soe eee ee te a eee 125 Potal : oo... sc cc cers ane See at 2,556
E.—TasLe EXHIBITING THE NUMBER OF PACKAGES RECEIVED FOR OTHER AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS, &c., In 1853.
Bewdom, College. of... 02. 25s. cee eee 6 Bosion..—Amencan Academy ...:./ cis. ssstiaeod » 4s 5 oc oe 26 Natural History Society: . 2. ..ecee8 --ce eee 6 Bowditch eaiprary if. oc Main ineree ea yee See 7 Combrgd ee. — Observatory a. . 2..-2 24254 oi cai a ees = <2 cm Botanic Garden... .. serch ich af: Ch ese 2c 7
ioarvacd Cotlege. <2. 2.2 5... 5 Set ec oa 13 Astronomical Journal. s2.:.2..1 «ee Pele hitecngin! at' 9 Amherst—Amherst College... 2... 000202220200 BulAdo. aye 8

<<<Page: 58>>>

Qn rs
Worcester.—Antiquarian Society...-....-.-.-.------------J New diaven-—sournal ofseience. 6s). jo... 0. 2.22. 5. see 14 Manerican Oriental, ociety:):-\. ..---.,-/..0+ aan ae 7 Albany—New Work ‘State, Library... .-----..-----.----225 6 New York.—Lyceum of Natural History.......-.--.-..-.--13 iNithnalosicahSoerty soe ssh ee 6 ee be 3 GeognapincaltSociety f8 2 2 ae. 2a ee 4 Philadelphia——American Philosophical Society........--..-. 39 Academy-otf Natural’ Sciences.’ 5. .-.----..-: 20
Pirantclin bnstitubess es 5 = eee atecrak insole oteseis'e, = «ce Zz
Geological Survey of Pennsylvania ..........4 Washington.—National Observatory ........---.-----------28 Wash SULVEY. ween oye ete re te erences oc 22
National’ simstipukens. = het cra sje: se ode eels aie 6
subeeon “Generis. cots. hes oie Be AS bak chp iL
Aimencan ASSOGIMtON. = o's 422 tee ac js ef on asec 2
Coneress \larlbnary 322) 22 atzise sect. aloe ent een gay 8 Astronomical Expedition to Chili....-.......--. 4
United States Patent Office 2. 5. oi... 2 hn ete 3
Sicate IMepaRtMeN Esa /aor cotata <2 tre Deis we dicta es 2
GF EOED CLOUMI OOSERVALOLY (= va, nint) Shs) 5/2) slab /otew 2ictsn eee Sietele 10
Miscellaneous, including libraries of States, minor institutions, &c. 755
6. Domestic ExcHANGES.
The copies of Volume V. of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge intended for American institutions, were all sent off in May at the same time with those for foreign bodies. As heretofore, they were distributed through the following agents who have made no charge tor their service: Messrs. J. P. Jewett & Co., Boston; George P. Putnam & Co., New York; Lippincott, Grambo & Co., Philadelphia; John Russell, Charleston; B. M. Norman, New Orleans; Dr. Geo. Engelmann, St. Louis ; H. W. Derby, Cincinnati; and Jewett, Proctor & Worthington, Cleveland. Acknowledgments for nearly all have been already received.
The additions to the Museum during the year 1853 have been very extensive, covering the entire field of natural history and ethnology. Many of these consist of species altogether new to science ; while others, though previously described, belong to forms of great rarity. The contributions to our knowledge of the geographical distribution of species have been of the most important character, the localities occurring as
_ they do over the entire area of this country. A very large proportion

<<<Page: 59>>>

of these localities are in the region between the Mississippi and the Pacific, many of them never before represented in natural history cabinets. This condition of things has been, in great measure, due to the labors of the various oovernment parties organized for the survey of the boundary line between the United States and Mexico, and of the several routes for a Pacific railroad. Without a single exception, all these parties have been fitted out at the Smithsonian Institution with all EBON G instruments and apparatus for natural history research,
much of it contrived with special reference to the exigencies of the particular service involved. Fullinstructions were also supplied, by which persons without previous practice were enabled to master all the general principles required for making observations and collections of every kind. :
In addition to the above official explorations, many of a more private character, and of greater or less extent, have been made by different persons, and transmitted to the Institution. The general result is to be seen in the large number of jars, kegs, boxes, and shelves filled with specimens of all kinds. From this it will be seen that the army has contributed a very large proportion of the whole receipts, affording a gratifying proof of the interest felt in the deposit at the metropolis, of complete collections of the natural history of North America.
Owing to the liberality of the officers of the various expeditions, and of the bureaus under whose charge they were fitted out, every facility was afforded in authorizing the necessary force and funds to meet the wants of science as connected with these explorations. In this way the entire cost was defrayed by government, so that the Institution has been called upon only to make the necessary expenditures for government, and to give a general supervision to the whole.
Nor have the materials collected by the government parties been allowed to lie idle; on the contrary, they have been put, immediately on their arrival, into the hands of competent naturalists and skilful artists, for the elucidation and illustration necessary to fit them for appearing as a portion of the reports which the various parties have been called on to make.
I shall now proceed briefly to mention the general character of the additions to the Museum during the year, referring for particular infor-
mation to the alphabetical list of donors subjoined. It is impossible: at the present time to give an accurate enumeration of all the species received, especially as so many are enurely new. Every specimen, however, is labelled, as soon as it arrives, with the name of the donor and locality; and in the descriptive catalogues now in course of preparation, the ‘complete account of the w hole will be presented in a systematic form. The general history of the explor ations, too, will be found to embrace more detail than can here be given.
Mammals.—During the past year many species of North American mammals have been receive dy embracing quite a notable proportion of the smaller forms from North America, especially the squirrels, spermophiles, and weasels. The Louisiana species have been received from Mr. Fairie; those of Wisconsin, from Dr. Hoy; of the Rocky mountain range, from the expedition of Governor Stevens; of the lower

<<<Page: 60>>>

Rio Grande, from Major Emory. Dr. O. W. Gibbs presented a musk deer, from Java, and Mr. Steenberg has contributed many of the species from Greenland, and Scandinavia. The collections of Capt. Van Vliet and Lieut. Couch include many species from Mexico and Texas. Some valuable specimens from Minnesota were received from Mr. Cavileer and Dr. Head.
Birds—The additions to this department have been very great, amounting to over 400 species, and more than 1,000 specimens. Of these 250 species are from the Rio Grande country, North Mexico, the Rocky mountains, and west of the Rocky mountains. Here, as well as among mammals, there have occurred some new species. Of remarkable perfection of preparation was a collection of 50 species of California birds, presented by Dr. Hermann; and the North Mexican series of Lieut. Couch have been of extraordinary magnitude and importance. Capt. Van Vliet, Mr. J. H. Clark and Mr. Arthur Schott under Major Emory, and Dr. Crawford, have gathered many valuable specimens in Texas. Species from Michigan have been received from the Rev. Chas. Fox; of Wisconsin, from Dr. Hoy and Mr. Barry ; of Ohio, from Dr. Kirtland and Chas. Pease; of Louisiana, from Mr. Jas. Fairie.
Reptiles and Fishes.—As heretofore, owing to the particular attention invited to this department, the additions to the alcoholic collections have been most marked, especially of reptiles and fishes. Every portion of the country has been laid under contribution, and the additions to our knowledge of the distribution of species, as well as of their zoological character, havé been of the greatest value. There is scarcely a State or Territory in the Union which has not sent a representation. The most marked results have been the addition to the Fauna of the United States of the dipsadians among serpents, and the characini, ants, the fresh water labroids, among fishes. Nearly two thousand glass Jars have been filled with the specimens received, after being assorted ; of which 200 were of serpents alone. The principal contributors have been Major Emory, Governor Stevens, Lieut. Whipple, Dr. Hammond, Dr. Jeffrey, Prof. Winchell, Drs. G. C. and B. F. Shumard, Dr. Hoy, Rev. A. C. Barry, Dr. Barratt, Mrs. Daniel, Major Rich, Capt. Van’ Vliet, James Fairie, S. F. Baird, Maj. Hagner, Maj. Sibley, Rev. Chas. Fox, Dr. Head, J. D. Sergeant, Mr. Kennicott, Mr. Dean, Capt. Atwood, Leo Lesquereaux, J. H. Richard, Prof. Agassiz, Capt. Farragut, D. B. Boden, &c.
Invertebrata.—Many valuable collections of invertebrata have been added during the year, the most important being a series from Grand Manan, from Mr. Wm. Stimpson, and illustrating his paper published in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Others from the coast Massachusetts were sent by Capt. Atwood, and from Florida and the Gulf of Mexico by Dr. Hammond, Dr. Jeffrey, and Major Emory. Some interesting contributions have consisted of specimens of Gordius from the bodies of crickets and grasshoppers, contributed by Mr. Sanford and Mr. Eveleth.
Plants —An extensive collection of plants of Alabama, was received from Prof. A. Winchell, to whom the Institution is indebted for valuable specimens in all departments of natural history. Dr. Ravenel has

<<<Page: 61>>>

presented a suite of the Carolina fungi. Lieut. Whipple and Governor Stevens have sent in important collections from their fields of labor.
Minerals and Fossils—In connexion with the survey of Gov. Stevens, Dr. Evans revisited the Mauvaises Terres last summer, and collected a large number of specimens of the fossil vertebrata of that region. These have been put into the hands of Dr. Leidy, who has detected the presence of some additional new species. Professor Winchell has sent quite a full series of the cretaceous and tertiary fossils of Alabama, and Major Emory the same from Texas. Many minerals have been received from Dr. Pendleton, of Georgia, and some Austrian stalactites from Mr. Dodge.
Ethnology. —Skulls of many tribes of Indians, as Lipans, Comanches, Apaches, Flat Heads, have been received from various sources; as also remains of works of art. An interesting contribution to this department is found in a specimen of the sculpture of the human foot in limestone by the early inhabitants of the country, and erroneously supposed to be an impression made while the stone was in a plastic state.
The collections belonging to or deposited with the Smithsonian Institution are at present scattered over the building in its various rooms. Much inconvenience is felt from the impracticability of arranging the specimens properly for examination and study. Everything is kept packed away in the smallest compass, and of course not easily referred to when needed for investigation. The alcoholic collections, however, have generally been accessible when required for use. When the new museum room is finished, which will be in the course of a few months, ample space will be afforded for the accommodation of ail the specimens, although a considerable time must necessarily elapse before the cases can be | put up, and the collections properly arranged.
At the present time the Institution may be saad to possess one of the best general collections of specimens of North American natural history in the country, although in particular branches it may be greatly exceeded by several, both public and private. It is pre-eminently rich in the mammals, with their skulls and skeletons; and still more in the reptiles. As an illustration of this, it may be stated that the species of North American serpents alone amount to 130, of which 70 were never described before being received by the Institution. The enumeration by Dr. Holbrook of North American serpents, in 1842, consisted of 49. The other departments of reptiles have experienced nearly proportional increase. The collection of birds is second only to that of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences; of fishes only equalled by the private cabinet of Professor Agassiz; while in the various departments of invertebrata and of plants it holds much more than average rank. In fossil remains the collection is very rich, especially of the comparatively recent vertebrata of the various caverns throughout the country.
And, in connexion with this extent and importance of the Smithsonian museum, it may be well to call attention to the fact that it has

<<<Page: 62>>>

been the work of but three years to raise this collection from nothing to the front rank among American cabinets, exceeding all perhaps in the number of new species first brought to light within its limits. Nor has effort been confined merely to the acquisition of specimens, but to their concentration in mass so as to supply all working naturalists with the materials of research. As already stated, applications for such assistance are constantly being received, and always met with all possible promptness; so that scarcely any natural history monograph or memoir of any extent has been published in this country within a year or two which has not been indebted in this way to the Institution. From the care, too, taken to keep separate all the localities, however near together, of any species, the collection affords information in reference to the geographical distribution of species of the very highest value.
The labor of unpacking and assorting collections as received, and labelling and recording the different specimens, has of course been very great, requiring much more time than the limited portion left after discharging the other duties assigned to me. In this, however, I have been assisted very greatly by Mr. Charles Girard, who has given much time and attention to this department, without any compensation for his services. By his help, I have been enabled to keep up with the details of labor necessary to give these collections their proper scientific value.
Much has been done during the year towards distributing duplicate specimens of the Smithsonian collection among the other cabinets of the country. In no way can the Institution be of more use in elevating the standard of natural science than in distributing carefully labelled suites of specimens to points where, from lack of libraries or other causes, the means of accurate identification are wanting. For remote regions of country, this mode of assistance is of especial benefit, and arrangements have already been entered into, in several cases, to receive miscellaneous collections and to return them properly labelled, with the addition of such other species as can conveniently be spared. Parties already in such connexion with the Smithsonian Institution, or about entering upon it, are found in New York, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Ibnois, Missouri, New Orleans, and North and South Carolina.
A collection of duplicates of North American serpents and Astaci has been presented to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, including types of many new species published by the Institution. To the New York State Cabinet of Natural History was also sent a large collection of reptiles and fishes of New York, embracing many species not previously received there.
The cataloguing of the collections of the Institution progresses as rapidly as my other duties will allow. One way in which a museum may be very useful to those unable to visit it personally, is by publishing catalogues of the specimens contained therein. If these exhibit, original descriptions of the species, and especially if the list be made complete by enumerating also the species not contained in the collection, they become of great value to investigators, and may readily serve as

<<<Page: 63>>>

manuals of science, attaining the rank of monographs. This has been done in the Catalogue of North American Serpents in the Museum of the Smithnian Institution, published in January, 1853, which, in a compact volume of one hundred and eighty-eight pages, contains full and original descriptions of one hundred and nineteen species—all belonging to the Institution, with the exception of five ; and some of these, with many additional ones, have been received since that time. Similar catalogues of the other reptiles are in an advanced stage of progression, and will be ready for publication early in 1854.
In addition to the preparation of these catalogues, much has been done in the classification and description of the collections sent in by the various exploring expeditions. Considerable progress has been made towards the preparation of the several reports of the natural history of the United States and Mexican Boundary Survey, the survey of the North Pacific railroad route by Gov. Stevens, that of the Central route by Lieut. Whipple, that of the United States Astronomical Expedition to Chili by Lieut. Gillis, and several others. The preparation of many hundred sheets of drawings of new species for these reports has been carefully superintended. The reports prepared upon the natural history of the explorations by Capt. Sitgreaves and Capt. Marcy, have already been published by Congress. Some of these I now lay before you.
A large amount of valuable information relating to the descriptions, and the habits and manners of species, has been received during the yvear—much of it bearing directly upon important questions in science and rural economy. A very extensive correspondence has been required for the purpose of stimulating investigations and calling attention to the solution of particular problems. It is much to be regretted that the Institution has no medium of its own through which the information thus received can be promptly presented to the world. A monthly bulletin, of considerable size, could readily be filled with communications of this kind, as well as with brief notices and descriptions of collections received.
Registers of Periodical Phenomena.
The blank registers of periodical phenomena issued in the winter of 1852~3, have been returned filled, and in connexion with those for the previous year, still in manuscript, form a body of information of the highest value. These will be carefully reduced, and published at an early period. A new edition having become necessary, a revision of the old lists of plants was carefully made by Drs. Torrey and Gray, and the revised form will be distributed in a few weeks. Instructions for making collections of microscopical organisms and infusoria have been added.
Assistance in the Muscum.
As the time has already arrived when more attention and labor should be given to the collections of the Museum to make them fulfil all the purposes of instruction of which they are capable, it is very

<<<Page: 64>>>

desirable that the Museum force should be increased. I have already adverted to the labor necessarily expended during the past year inmerely unpacking and arranging the collections of new matter received. While the old specimens need a certain amount ofcare, new ones are being constantly added. I would, therefore, recommend that Mr. Girard be regularly employed by the Institution, at such salary as you may think suitable ; and one other person in addition, to attend to the purely mechanical work required in the way of unpacking, washing bottles, tying on labels, cleaning specimens, &c. Such service as this could be obtained for about twenty-five dollars per month, and the help of both persons would be also available in other departments where it is imPe nre’y required. ‘This is especially the case in respect to the pubications, exchanges, and transportation, where, as in the Museum operations, I have no regular assistance whatever.
Alphabetical list of donors to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution.
Academy of Natural Sciences—Skins of North American birds.
Prof. C. B. Adams.—Shells, &c., from Bermuda and St. Thomas.
Prof. L. Agassiz.—Etheostoma from Alabama and Missouri.
Capt. Atwood.—Fishes, crustacea, and radiata, from Provincetown, Mass.
Prof. A. D. Bache-—Surterbrand from Iceland.
Prof. S. F. Baird—Twelve kegs, &c. of fishes, from Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, New York, and Canada.
Dr. J. B. Barratt—Reptiles and fishes from South Carolina.
Dr. J. M. Bigelow.—Seeds from Texas and New Mexico.
Capt. Daniel Boden.—Specimens of lake trout and perch, from Otsego lake, New York. ‘
J. S. Bowman.—Reptiles and fishes from the vicinity of Fort Kearney. .
Major J. H. Carleton, U. S. A.—sSpecimen of thelyphonus trom Santa Fé.
Charles Cavileer—Mammals, &c., from Minnesota.
Robert Clarke—Skulls of mammals and reptiles, in alcohol, from
Essex county, N. J.
Prof. George H. Cook.—Living specimens of Emys muhlenbergui, from New York.
Dr. G. E. Cooper, U. S. A—Skulls of Comanche and Lipan Indians. ;
Dr. J. G. Cooper.—Reptiles from California; skin of Gymnotus eleetricus.
Lt. D. N. Couch, U. S. A.—Very extensive collections of the vertebrata, with numerous insects and specimens of antiquities from Northern Mexico.
G. S. Cutting —Storeria dekayit and Chlorosoma vernalis, from Middleboro’, Mass.
Mrs. M. E. Daniel.—Reptiles from Anderson, 8. C.
E. A. Dayton—Skulls of beaver and fishes; (Mustela canadensis ;) reptiles and fishes from the St. Lawrence river.
G. W. Dean.—Reptiles from Galveston, Texas.

<<<Page: 65>>>

Delaware County Institute, Pa-—Keg of fishes and reptiles; three hundred and eleven species of plants from Delaware county, Pa.
J. M. Dodge.—Stalactites from the cave of Adelsburg, Austria.
Rev. D. W. Eakins —lLimestone slab, with sculpture of human feet, from Verdigris river, Creek Nation.
Dr. George Engelmann.—Reptiles and fishes from St. Louis.
Samuel A. Eveleth—Gordius taken from a cricket.
Jas. Fairie—Shells of Chelonura temmincku, from Louisiana ; Indian implements, reptiles, &c.
Capt. D. Farragut, U. S. N.—Fishes from Chesapeake bay.
Dr. E. Foreman.—Unio hopetonensis from Altamaha river.
Rev. Charles For.—Living specimens of Eutenia ; fishes, reptiles, and mammals, from Michigan.
Dr. Julius Froebel.—F¥ ossils from New Mexico.
Dr. Wolcott Gibbs—Musk deer of Java, in the flesh.
B. R. Gifford.—Clays and concretions from Gay Head Bluffs, Martha’s Vineyard.
Major Hagner, U. S. A.—Siredon lichenoides, from Fort Defiance, Navajo country.
C. F. Hammond.—Phosphate of lime, from Crown Point, N. Y.
Dr. J. F. Hammond.—Skin of Crotalus adamanteus, with fishes and reptiles, in alcohol, from Pensacola.
Dr. W. Hammond.—Skeletons and skulls from Fort Kearney.
Dr. J. F. Head.—Reptiles, fishes, and skulls of vertebrata, from Fort Ripley.
Dr. A. L. Hermann.—Skins of fifty species of birds, from California.
Dr. P. R. Hoy.—Fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals, from Wisconsin.
Dr. R. W. Jeffrey —Fishes and reptiles from Pensacola.
S. K. Jennings, j7r—Shed skin of Masticophis flavigularis, 'Texas.
Robert W. Kennicott—Fishes and reptiles trom Cook county, Hhnois.
J. A. Lapham:—Shells from Wisconsin.
Leo Lesquereux.—Reptiles and fishes from Ohio.
Rev. Charles Mann.—Salamanders from Gloucester, Virginia.
Dr. Morrow.—Gold ore from Dorn’s Mine, Abbeville, South Carolina.
Richard Nettle—Fishes from the lower St. Lawrence.
Dr. E. C. Pendleton—Minerals and shells from Georgia.
H. W. Ravenel——Specimens of Carolina fungi.
W. H. Ravenel Sceloporus undulatus, South Carolina.
Major Wm. Rich.—Reptiles, fishes, &c., from the city of Mexico.
J. H. Richard.—Fishes from Pennsylvania.
E. S. Robinson.—Skin of Crotalus adamantcus.
Mr. Sabine.—Reptiles from California; skin of Gymnotus electricus. -
S. N. Sanford.— Gordius taken from the body of a cricket.
Sir Robert Schomburgk.—Tertiary shells and ancient pottery from St. Domingo.
J. D. Sergeant.—Reptiles from Rock Island, Illinois.
Major E. S. Sibley, U. S. A—Reptiles and insects from Fort Union,
New Mexico.

<<<Page: 66>>>

Capt. Shiras, U. S. A.—Specimen of mygale, Texas.
Dr. B. F. Shumard.—Specimens of amblyopsis, astacus, and insects and reptiles, from the Mammoth Cave, Kentucky, and vicinity ; fishes from Louisville, Kentucky ; reptiles from Mississippi.
Dr. G. C. Shumard.—Reptiles and fishes from the Arkansas river.
Geo. Smith.—Living specimens of Emys muhklenbergii, from Delaware county, Pennsylvania.
Commodore Joseph Smith.—Specimens of woods used in ship-building ; illustrations of growth and ravages of teredo. Prepared by Mr. Jarvis, inspector of Portsmouth yard.
J. M. Stanley.—Dress and war-club of Blackfoot chief.
Judge Augustus Steele-—Fishes, crustacea, and shells, from Atseena, Florida.
Schach Steenberg.—Skins and skeletons of mammals, fish and invertebrates, in alcohol; Greenland.
Wm. Stimpson.—Miscellaneous invertebrata from New England.
Capt. S. Van Vliet, U. S. A—Skeleton of peccary ; skins of birds-; alcoholic specimens of reptiles, fishes, and erustacea, from the lower Rio Grande.
Col. B. L. C. Wailes.—Living tortoises, fossils, fishes, and reptiles, in alcohol, &c., from Mississippi.
Rev. Dr. Wheeler-—Lignite from Brandon, Vermont; Osceola ela~ psoidea from Florida.
Prof. Alexander Winchell.—Fossils, plants, reptiles, birds, &c., from Eutaw, Alabama ; plants, fossils, and fishes, from Selma, Alabama.
Dr. S. Wyhe Crawford, U. S. d—Skin of Cyrtonyx massena from Texas.

<<<Page: 67>>>

List of Meteorological observers reporting to the Smithsonian Institution at
the beginning of 1854, compiled by Lorin Blodget.
State. Name. Residence. Nova Scotia vec crete cvecteterrer \Henry’ Poole. wats esses. -.| Albion Mines, Pictou. Gana dareteroie cite s-cysteciexsicics | Dr. Chas. Smallwood......} St. Martin’s, near Montreal. Maine. eines. selesisteterece | Rev. Samuel H. Merrill...) Oldtown, Penobscot county. Jeg pe Rarken, ctovcleseis se) sf\0\c Steuben, Washington county. | James G. Garland........ Biddeford, York county. || John J. Bells 2S i) sctice 2. ...| Carmel, Penobscot county. Saml. A. Eveleth...... ..-| Windham, Cumberland county. Joshua, Bartlett icc. <1s'0.0s.0.0 South Thomaston, Lincoln co. | Geo. W. Burrows.........| Fryeburg, Oxford county. | Wm. D. Dana...... efalsiehehs Perry, Washington county. New Hampshire....... .| Geo. B. Sawyer........-. Salmon Falls, Stafford county. : Robt. | © Miaekksisetee exe's ...| Londonderry, Rockingham county. Dr. Wm. Prescott........| Concord, Merrimack county. Hons SNS Bell cccieipisnje 0:0 Manchester, Hillsborough county. Rev. L. W. Leonard...... Exeter, Rockingham county. Albert A. Young........ t Han Can a | Prof. Ira’ Young's... 206.5. ee toe ee | Vermont «++... pelts a al Jol Feo REOKE AET St. Johnsbury, Caledonia county. G@has. fA‘ 7 Jeg Marsh, 5 ste clete<e Craftsbury, Orleans county. DV Buckland gaieciesles's soles Brandon, Rutland county. D. Underwood...........Castleton, Rutland county.
Massachusetts. ..
Rhode Island..
Connecticut...
New York*........
eecececece|
ee ceceeeooee
Prof. Zadok Thompson....
Wialliany, Bacon: .2sjs,c5ie1s;0.6)Prof. E. G. Snell Dra ids cA SiSmithscyeccc seve ers DrsgH a Cs Perkins... Breit Hons John Brooks's)...» << Dr. Jno. Geo. Metealf..... ues: ©. Allens. ices eet Samuel Rodman...:...... Amasa. Holcombic, sccstereerets Be Re Gifford Scares s ees | Henry Rice Hon. Wm. Mitchell..
eee eer eee
Cr ey
Henry C. Sheldon.....,... Prof. A. Caswell..... node
«| Rev. Tryon Edwards, D. D.
Daniel Hunt
.| Prof. Edward A. H. Allen..
Thomas B. Arden..
Charles A. Avery...... siete Prof. O. W.. Morris... ..2s ©: Thurston ‘Chase... BA. Dayton. i:.asie screens Bs Wi. Johnson cn cece Dr. P. O. Williams..... ste Usila bis Chusasesceiterts eicievereve E. N. Byram.. alavers
C.S. Woodward. . Heer ca Walkera D: Velev soeescs 6:
Burlington, Crittenden county.
Richmond, Berkshire county. Amherst, Hampshire county. Worcester, Worcester county. Newburyport, Essex county. Princeton, Worcester county. Mendon, Worcester county. Springfield, Hampden county. New Bedford, Bristol county. Southwick, Hampden county. Barnstable, Barnstable county. North Attleboro’, Bristol county. Nantucket.
North Scituate, Providence. Providence.
New London, New London co’ty.| Pomfret, Windham county.
.| Saybrook, Middlesex county.
Salisbury, Litchfield county.
Troy, Rensselaer county.
.-| Beverly, Putnam county.
Seneca Falls, Seneca county. Institution for deafand dumb. N. Y. Chatham, Columbia county. Madrid, St. Lawrence county. Canton, St. Lawrence county. Gouverneur, St. Lawrence county. Oswego, Oswego county.
.| Sag Harbor, Suffolk county.
Beaver Brook, Sullivan county. Houseville, Lewis county.
* New York Academy system in separate list.

<<<Page: 68>>>

LIST—Continued.
State. Name. Residence.
New WOrk' cre). (oro «e0'sieiee| DOOM MBO WANA. e/c/sierse or le « | Baldwinsville, Onondaga county. Johns Weffertsin civics etscec Lodi, Seneca county. Elias O. Salisbury ........ Buffalo, Erie county. Laurens A. Langdon...... Falconer, Chautauque county. Dr. Stillman Spooner ..... Wampsville, Oneida county. TBM Ger aya eiesversiore <i 6 Albion, Orleans county. John’ Ey, Jenkinssaye\scjereh seve North Salem, Westchester county.
New Jersey..... Sie(s oleate’ Robert, L. Cooke. «5.5.0. Bloomfield, Essex county. Prof. Adolph Frost........ Burlington, Burlington county. W. A. Whitehead ........ Newark, Essex county.
Pennsylvaniaj.. ss «le sees Dr. A.C. Blodget /.5% <2. Youngsville, Warren county. Wis O2. Blodget: (ccerreleiceccre Sugar Grove, Warren county. Samuel Brown............ Bedford, Bedford county. John? Comlly.s sc sjareieiesietsieiers Byberry, Philadelphia county. Joseph Edwards........... Lima, Delaware county. Dre RAGE #5 LEVENS: lefeforonsleCeres, McKean county. Francis Schriener......... Moss Grove, Crawford county. Wie Wie Wall SOmiiajeyeretesis feta « Pittsburgh, Alleghany county. Prof. M. Jacobs..... .----.| Gettysburgh, Adams county. Fenelon Darlington ....... Pocopson, Chester county. Ebenezer Hance .......... Morrisville, Bucks county. Dirty Jeglleiseliysaraieractereteeverets Harrisburg, Dauphin county. Revit Dardis. Bry lene orca) 0s) ste Waynesboro’, Franklin county. DepRes | Wiowirlerscsaexers av cleialers Hollidaysburg, Blair county. Rev. J. Grier Ralston..... Norristown, Montgomery county. Prof. J. A. Kirkpatrick. ...| Philadelphia, Philadelphia county, Dre Rawls Swift se,<tisjepectevers Haverford, Philadelphia county.
Maryland ......-..00+.++. Fret. Aree IS) Sykesville, Carroll county. Prof... HoSteinerssteccss « Baltimore, Baltimore county. Henry E. Hanshaw....... Frederick, Frederick county.
aE PIM AN claiat) ae ores «cao; FOUN W... Marvin, «veraiacls %
BLOriGa ; s.6.c<ce 6 ote a eapate: eve
Allabamats siceo sca c oot er
WU icwristspppiictarateicsieya s/s ois) bicle
Prof. Geo. R. Rosseter.... Dr. Thomas Patton....... Benjamin Hallowell.,..... Prof. N. B. Webster...... David Turnerie ci. cierssetetsere Lieut. R. F. Astrop....... SWimiy Si-KWermi.:.ceceesere
Rev. Frederick Fitzgerald. . Prof. James Phillips.......
.| Thornton Carpenter.......
Dr. John F. Posey........ RP. Gibson ;.,<).'s aS acrencee Prof. John Darby Dr. E. M. Pendleton
Dr. A. S. Baldwin........ Judge Aug. Steele........ John’ Newtons? \<: 22/00. s0. John Pearson, master navy
VWhithGcocGodooooeo ono ood
eee eer eee
iss dia Omnia eocostood Protebis @utwiler. o<).:./0« Prof Muomey ss. esas <3 Benjamin F. Holley...... .
Rev. E. Robinson..
Winchester, Frederick county. Buffalo, Putnam county.
.| Lewisburg, Greenbrier county.
Alexandria, Alexandria county. Portsmouth, Norfolk county. Richmond, Henrico county. Crichton’s store, Brunswick co’ty. Huntersville, Pocahontas county.
Jackson, Northampton county. Chapel Hill, Orange county.
Camden, Kershaw county.
Savannah, Chatham county. Whitmarsh Island, Chatham co’ty. Culloden, Monroe county. Sparta, Hancock county.
Jacksonville, Duvall county. Cedar Keys, Levy county. Knox Hill, Walton county.
Pensacola, Escambia county.
Monroeville, Monroe county. Havana, Greene county. Tuscaloosa, Tuscaloosa county. Wetokaville, Talladega county.
Garlandsville, Jasper county.

<<<Page: 69>>>

LIST—Continued.
Residence.
Louisiana ....+-.e+.e+ee-| Dr. K. H. Barton.........| New Orleans, Orleans county. TexaS..ccecsecccecvecees| Dr. S. K. Jennings.......
Austin, Travis county. Prof. J. C. Ervendberg....
New Weld, Comal county.
Tennessee .....++.++++---| Commandant navy yard .. Prof. A. P. Stewart....... W. M. Stewart ...... sferets
-| Memphis, Shelby county.
Lebanon, Wilson county.
Glenwood, near Clarksville, Montgomery county.
Prof. George Cooke.......| Knoxville, Knox county.
Kentucky......0+eeee-+--| Dr. John Swain.........Ballardsville, Oldham county. Rev..J. Miller..........% --| Millersburg, Bourbon county. OM Beatty scjc sisiae-'s\ see's ---| Danville, Boy le county. Lawrence Young......... Springville, near Louisville, Jefferson county. NCE sBIRDY.s cileroiei« v's ole Pleasant Valley, Nicholas county. KE. ..-Bethune..:.\..'. -ee+e-| Maysville, Mason county. Ohio. ..ceceeecceeeeeeeee| Prof. R. S. Bosworth., College Hill, Hamilton county. We “GYONMEWEZY ss ere cvaslejers : Gornanional Montgomery co’ty. Rev. J. McD. Matthews... Hillsborough, Highland county. Geo. L. Crookham........ Jackson C. igh Jackson county. Je-G. I. Holstont ys... Zanesville, Muskingum county. Prof. S. N. Sanford......| Granville, Licking county. Prof. J. W. Andrews ..... Marietta, Washington county. F. A. Benton..........-+-| Mt. Vernon, Knox county. Hi SPOONET2 6 wie sa) siclelelclercie Keen, Coshocton county. Prof. J. H. Fairchild.....} Oberlin, Loraine county. Michigan...... eeeeeeeees} Dr. Thomas Whelpey.....| Brest, Monroe county. ite 9Wioodr aii. \.i-ittcictestnore Ann Arbor, Washtenaw county. Dr: M.-K. ‘Taylor. ........ | Brooklyn: Jackson county. Dr. W.M. Campbell. . Battle Creek, Calhoun county. Jas, I Strong ic) shels scien «=e St. James, Beaver Island. Rev. Geo. Duffield, D. D.. Detroit, Wayne county. Bd iBNa) sos ao oes occ netoomeee Prof. Jos. Tingley ........] Greencastle, Putnam county. WW sAustin 220% <cisic.5%re Richmond, Wayne county. Dr. V. Kersey... .:: seleicisver Milton, Wayne county. Jno. Chappellsmith....... New Harmony, Posey county. RITNOIS sie e's ces: aroversnie clo ere | reas VLCAG, alclevesters ---| Augusta, Hancock county. MOC Allee eats costelsretar .--| Athens, Menard county. Dr. John James . . «00.0100: Upper Alton, Madison county. Dri JO. Harris tects Ottawa, La Salle county.
Prof. Wm. Coffin.........| Batavia, Kane county. MMisSOULi c's colts ie 0.0 eteeie'o'e| DY. Geo: Engelman......-
St. Louis, St. Louis county. O. Hi P: Lear. ..ceaewene
Hannibal, Marion county.
TOWA. ec ceeccceees -eeeee Dr. J. BE. Ball..........2-| Keokuk, Lee county. Dr. Benj. F. Odell........| Poulteney, Delaware county. Dr. E. C. Bidwell...... ---| Quasqueton, Buchanan county. D..E. Read...... eeeeeeeee| St. Mary’s, Mills county. P. G. Parvin .............| Muscatine, Muscatine county. ree Aa WEA OLY o10\s iarsles<yoyetere Dubuque, Dubuque county. Wiisconsinicjprteterevesicwisies|s te J. 1a. Pickard).:,... -+«-| Plattsville, Grant county.
Profs SP. Lathrop ccisiees. DAR VVALLLAT cleresayerexcie's. sie Thos. Gay, €8q....s.ccesProf. S. H. Carpenter bicrevers Edward S. Spencer ......-
Beloit, Rock county.
Janesville, Rock county. Bellefontaine, Marquette county. Madison, Dane county. Summitt, Waukesha county.

<<<Page: 70>>>

LIST—Continued.
State. Name.
Residence.
Minnesota ........
Rev. Elisha Ww. Carver... .
Red Lake, Pembina county.
Rev. S. R. Riggs... os. <:.| Lae qui Parle, Dahkota county. Rev. D. B. Spencer....... St. Josephs, Pembina county.
New York University system.
Name. Station. Prof. C. Dewey, D:D ..:0:.6.0 010 Sele, 0.01010 .++++| Rochester, Monroe county. Chas. A. Avery ....ceccecrecns 8010 eeeisieeee s Seneca Falls, Seneca county. Dr. M. M. Bagg......-.eeesssseecceeeees| Utica, Oneida county. Hip At PD ICKINSOMGeiete:s.0 siahele\eeiele ele\eise1e!ee(e.ee -+| Jamestown, Chautauque county. W.H. Gillespie..... aleteispayels eveictserece\e -+..+-| Mexico, Oswego county. CWharlesi., Hazeltin el... sjo.el« fects s'02,0 slesieie'sies | Cherry Valley, Otsego county. PAP LAT fe. .choinsnisies a oiciersies aie) nie seieiecs «++ee+| Elmira, Chemung county. PU REM. BBECS|olers. ac) os) aeic(oletalsrs.2/s/ei< Saiejeieis| seca --| Booneville, Oneida county. cote OR OO tae rolelelerc sieve siojele esters eeseeee-| Hamilton College, Oneida county. Wem rem GutleStisis) sclera seiofe) oetsVoyeiens’s\cisiloi\s/evsie sions Ogdensburg, St. Lawrence county. John ihe Jenkins) .;¢.<0012\6/ are rareectsorcleraets) cusiaie North Salem, Westchester county. LOTT RET everolerels ae ake!(eleholelo) ofa stehals ol oreleeiese oO oO. EEO Sch) SAN Vice VL OLE SMafe loseisis 1 stole e'evexcrorsi'erones choke Institution for deaf and dumb, N. York city. Vi UOMTISON colors evecjoretsitis cievels: ererecorsellate ---| Canton, St. Lawrence county. UV FeO PICT OM sr ores et ato\st alefeicsia a\e.o'se overerelsiele e\e Alfred, Alleghany county. De May Hew: « c.c\6 cies. eeleie se afetey ser ++ee+++| Lowville, Lewis county. IVVicp OG tA amSle stores 2. a/etclers'stareleexare siereresstore 0 do. Wi Miclbarenis/ccise1. sieves ee leleicheiweyaretetetofenerere Glen’s Falls, Warren county. WUV errr la AN GAINS oie 05 o1cies sscloro) aise cvele oxelsclero.s do do. Samuel A. Law....... slelale/eies o,6 sararete -+....| Meredith, Delaware county. PREV Wie ol) SAW ASOD Gye 1a: etoile cioisie%ss.oreso er ++ee-| Geneva, Ontario county. EA RMET MR OUCHET Tafel rojas ler ele eee\a\ere (eos + oieee were Hudson, Columbia county. eid We Tes OBR C Ceuerate ce: eysisicloletaie o'e: 216161 & oexersio Homer, Cortland county. TOHNES wD pebayl ore a cerscte etclsve ciao 0: castors sist store Plattsburg, Clinton county. John D. Watkins..... weleioheleietel ole wsietel ok orevolels Liberty, Sullivan county. Frederick L. Hanford........ afct als sfoteYete pouue do do. Re ELV IM OBirtetaiee Heche: one crajeictele's evera atatelotetete East Hampton, Suffolk county. © Rey. Thomas M. Strong, D. D........0065. Flatbush, Kings county. JO PStrattons, .:e.0:seeiels sis <e ite ye\ta.sy stor estaks .-.| Oxford, Chenango county. Charles H. Payson..... SOO GORDON OUUOGOC Pompey, Onondaga county. WASP GEIDUE US SjleVatae’ ai iste Sicls 3 6 s-0 Aereves nereters Adirondack, Essex county. BB Opies 5 5023010: < 100s 0's staves ia shore «e+e! Ithaca, Tompkins county. 13 Ge cl DRS eee ere L SEO eS OD COOCOe Newburgh, Orange county. CONE REN MOGU eicelciels Noises cic coke «cieneee © 6 Rochester, Monroe county. AVIAN IGOR CY isicie/e\\dchaiaiecse-s ¥ eotarete sisi e4 Syracuse, Onondago county. Ds HE. Cochrane sete aca’ sise oss StAG ODOC ...-| Fredonia, Chautauque county.
Prof. George H. Cook .......... John N. Brinkerhoff......
seeess eet esee sees
Albany, Albany county. Union Hall, Jamaica, Queens county’.

<<<Page: 71>>>

Observations transmitted in series or summaries.
State | Name. Canada. iskr5 is veeeeere++ Magnetic and meterological | observatory ..+.....00« Indiana ............+.++++-| Dr. Thomas Edmondson.. South Carolina........... | ‘Rev. AuviGlennie Sica iaje!s:WlOrid as crejoetenteretel metcretsyel= ) Win Co" Wenniss<jecresiscvere MissOUri..c.: cics'ec oie 0 ore .Dr. George Engelman .... Towa.. .-| K. H. A. Scheeper... Californias erates yer cuales cio’ Drie Gibbonse cc... Bermiudaljevets sas, ciersescierete | Surgeon Wellis........... | Montreal ....... OO ..| J. H. Huguet Latour...... | Dr. Archibald Hall........ Central America.........VERS aba Sted seiersieies,s.e:0.0.¢ South America......0s.0Edward A. Hopkins
Residence.
Toronto, Canada. Baltimore. Waccaman.
Key West.
St. Louis.
..-| Pella, Marion county.
San Francisco. Centre Signal Island.
Station, Inland
Panama.
.| Ascension, Paraguay.
Observers commencing since January, 1854, up to June 1, 1854.
State.
Massachusetts. ...2e.--
Rhode Island... ...6..6-s;0:<\6 Connecticut. ........cecee
Wew York ..... «<1 oeseeer
New Jersey
Pennsylvania
ee a
Maryland..... Eciaie) seis atorets
Virginia
a0 0 © epee one we eesee
ee a
soeeve
Mississippi... cess
eroeeoee
A. R. Green .
Dr. James W. Robbins...
B. R. Gifford.. ise wie
Albert Schlegel... eoleaiseysiegs ire Prof. P, A. Chadbourne....
Samuel Powel..... Geo. Manchester
ener eee
Prof. John Johnston....
Dr EVE wAM bas .6is evoreieys ave John F. Jenkins..... Seistone Wiarrenves Adams: r:..0134 Rev. WD? Wilsons. .6.2 «3 Pr. Sanford B. Hunt.... Prof. George H. Cook
g2 Re Lowrie . teletetsieetaisis iets
Jed. Hotchiss A. Nettleton
J. Bryant Smith, M. D..
-| Thornton Carpenter.......
H. W.. Ravenel... 3.030008
William Schley......... Prof. Wm. D. Waltiamnee
Rev. J. Avery Shepherd. . Wm. Henry Waddell..... ROL GELAT DED. «0150 0,0:00/«
eccreeeceoeee
Residence.
-| Uxbridge, Worcester county.
Wood’s Hole, Barnstable county. Taunton, Bristol county......... William’s College, Williamstown.
Newport, Newport county. Portsmouth, Newport couuty.
West Cornwall, Litchfield county. Middletown, Middlescx county.
Angelica, Alleghany county. White Plains, West Chester. Glen’s Falls, Warren. Geneva, Ontario county.
..| Buffalo, Erie county.
New Brunswick, Middlesex co’ty .
Warrior’s Mark, Huntingdon co.
.| Andersville, Perry county.
Meadville, Crawford county. Hagerstown, Washington county.
Bridgewater, Rockingham, county. Lynchburg, Campbell county.
-| Lincointon, Lincoln county.
Charleston, Charleston county. Aiken, Barnwell county.
.| Augusta, Richmond county. .| Madison, Morgan county.
Lake Washington, Washington co. Grenada, Yalabusha county. Oxford, La Fayette county. Jackson, Jackson county.

<<<Page: 72>>>

LIST—Continued.
State. Name. Residence. IGOWISIATIA Ne Ksieseisieiele esieie'e 9. BrotaaWeele Riddell. vcs ev New Orleans, Orleans county. Kentucky. ...-..secseses JAD He: Bixbyiis ose: Sanbie sie ee Lafayette, Christian county. J. D2 Shane.’ ssinweic' o.n0j0 60 Lexington, Fayette county. OO fs ierone's)s.creieie e'e(s\oKo.ei0\0.° John Ingram... «<< ..c: -+-| Savannah, Ashland county. D. G. W. Livesay........ Gallipolis, Gallia county. Dr. J. P. Kirtland ....... East Rockport, Cuyahoga county Edmund W. West.........| Huron, Erie county. Michigan ......scscseces Dr.:S: i. Mitchell . <i)... | East Saginaw, Saginaw county. Alfred: E: Carrier ......... Grand Rapids, Kent county. Prof. Alexander Winchell .| Ann Arbor, Washtenaw county. linnalienney 3s oAG GAS ea Oooo VP IRIAUELE creferelecfoscleve.cereio's Kendallville, Noble county. W. B. Coventing ......... do oO. Daniel H. Roberts........ New Garden, Wayne county. TOWa «00.00.0000 ee teececes E. H. A. Scheeper...... »-| Pella, Marion county. JWASGOMISII sisiarez0i0,ejsicis weieleie G..Z; Livingston, ;<is:2i0016 +: Hudson, St, Croix county. Jee lua PHAM ole excl celslo1ei's| Milwaukie, Milwaukie county. Prof. Wom. Borters.. ccc. Beloit, Rock county. Minnesota..... Siastarsinc fer Rev. Solon W. Mauncey..| Fort Ripley. Dr. ©. L. Anderson....... St. Anthony’s Falls, Ramsey co’y. OEP ON 10ers «\c0.0 v\corein sists John D. Post... .¢sseceee Oregon City. California, ...cscseccvvees Dr. J. H. Gibbons......../ San Francisco.

<<<Page: 73>>>

The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents the following report, relative to the present state of the finances, and the expenditures during the year 1853.
They are happy to inform the Board that, after a strict examination of the accounts, they are enabled to present a very satisfactory statement of the present condition of the finances, and the result of the investigations as to the expenditures during the year.
The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest, deposited in the treasury of the United States, (from which an annual income, at 6 per cent., as derived ‘Of, poU,; i Ogle) Merrett pete asin a alain ot $515,169 00 Amount of unexpended interest, reported
last year as in charge of Messrs. Cor-
Gpran. Gc Riggs Serre haga eae haha 3 $208,800 00 From which deduct amount expended on
the buildmg during the past year.... 29,391 98
179,408 02 Of this it is proposed to expend the further
SUNY: Ol see eee tee ee 29,408 02
Which will leave to be added to the principal, according to the original proposition of Professor“ Bacnecers oe ee cic ee 150,000 OO
The whole fund ‘willithen be2 2. ..cccctweolee 665,169 OO

<<<Page: 74>>>

Statement in relation to the expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution during
the year 1853.
BUILDING, FURNITURE, FIXTURES, ETC. Pay on contracts. .++..+ss+eRiaisiss aisfsleiiacicia}alsVard svi she's, e\>/sia«/s.0's Pay of architects, superintendents, &c.....-. . Magnetic observatory . Expenses of building committee......... Sc Miscellaneous, incidental to building.........a esicievelaies Furniture, &c., for uses in COMMON... ..0.-2 ee eeeeseerees Furniture for library ....escsessse cece ee cees eivlesiefalsielucleilele due
eecneeer eee eee oe eee sere eee eo eo © Oe
Expenses of Board of Regents........ Lighting and heating.........-.+ee Postage...... “ Transportation ..... SOD DOOUDOOOCUOUE : Stationery... .......eeeee. General printing... sc. scesvecvocenscevecees feiss falefaversesete/ chara Apparatus ......0.. Incidentals general ........ee-s Watchman. . cise cwcccessvecs Pratehetereleletotere este reheiefors HoIoTeOdsO DS Salaries general........
wees Peer ee sree rs seo eB Bee ee Zereeeor ae Deeherseveoee
eco eo eee er ee ee sreoe
weer esse esos eee eer eee ese sees
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge .....2...2+esee0e%
Reports on progress of knowledge, .......eeeeeeeceeeeceee sevale Other publications.............. FOGG CHO eerstehovalsielste}sfelelore mistevelets Meteorology ....ccccccccscevscs arelorlsietoishepshcisictelasichehereletesserste sic Pay Op lCCtUTCTS els co esjeiele o/elefeie +101 <:eisieis via%e > Sielsieteicrereissislsteteis Illustrations and apparatus for lectures....0..++eeceeee Relesste Attendance and lighting lectures, &C......+seeeeeeeee eeescees
Ws Of DOCKS) sr lereie)sic cle! cxelee s/0/2\e) sievolesieie Stereotyping and printing Mitel demic lshOr di DIAN y a2 «rsiviosls)e!s sleieiets o,c/cicie.o sje 6:cige/elaeoias oe 0 ts Sinlbinigs, IM eiay og tgs cau dne GU OdOUCe aa ONG DCOOCCOMOKOOrIOU OUT Hiplora tions MUSCUNE. oc <o\cic co's o oes ss 600.6 00 0s osvie vola vies ss oles Expense of collections, museum..........+Gigcu6 cwnolog cage 06 Incidentals,, MUSCUM ss «052.000 2 0010-0 +510 BOI ba COBIOE eterestclerereye AAKICS, MUSEUM) cicias.c cleo sretes see
otaliexpenditures 10) 1853.15.66 siecle s siacisie.sis2 os :
25,500 00 1,580 70 1,578 28
77 00 184 84 354 05 17 11
-———
646 47 364 28 1,913 19 6 50
894 19 203 50
367 00 4,099 92
8,160 04 139 29
195 00 |
*3,352 42
$29,391 98
12,042
13,652 66
8,960 82
64,047 93
* Including $948 34, charged for interest on over-drafts during the year.
The following is a general view of the receipts and expenditures for
the year 1853:
Balance in the treasury, as per last report....... 5.6 ate Interest on the original fund for the year 1853.........ss20000% Interest on the extra fund for the year 1853....... :
EXPENDITURES, exctusive oF BUILDING.
For items common to the objects of the Institution........... For publications, researches, and lectures........eeesseceeeees For library, museum, and gallery of art..... sieleisiclee'e Balance iwi the treasury. «|«)0.c/cs/ sls eteletieia ele ve.sicleie sae ale Siecle e's ecis
ee eeeee or. veers
$250 49 30,910 14 10,440 00
12,042 47 13,652 66
8,960 82 6,944 68
$41,600 63
41,600 63

<<<Page: 75>>>

An appropriation of $30,000 was made at the last meeting of the Board of Regents, to be expended under the direction of the Executive Committee and the Secretary, for carrying on the operations of the Institution.
From the foregoing statement of accounts it will be seen that while the library and museum have had their share of the appropriation, the active operations have exceeded their part by upwards of $4,000. This excess has been caused, principally, by printing and preparing for the press a number of memoirs which are to form the volume of contributions for the year 1854.
Whatever may be the future distribution of the income, a greater expenditure than has been made for the lbré ary and museum, sau ing the past year, could not, in the opinion of the committee, have been judicious.
The additions to the library and museum, the former of which were chiefly in return for the publications of the Institution under the system of exchanges, have been considerable and valuable. A particular estimate of these will be presented to the Board hereafter.
The Board are referred to the report of the Secretary, recently submitted, for a detailed account of the operations of the Institution during the past year. The committee think that these operations are in harmony with the law of Congress, with the objects of the founder of the Institution, and successfully carry out his idea of the increase and diffusion of knowledge.
After the present year, during which the building will probably be completed, the fund for annual expenditures will “be somewhat enlarged, and increased benefits, it is hoped, will be realized.
J. A. PEARCE, A> D: BACHE, Executwe Committee. Je: G;, LOLTEN,

<<<Page: 76>>>

The Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution beg leave to present to the Board of Regents the following report of their operations and expenditures during the year 1853:
It will be recollected by the Regents that the first plan of the Smithsonian building contemplated finishing the interior with wood and plaster, and that the Board subsequently adopted a resolution directing the wood-work to be removed and its place to be supplied with fire-proof materials.
In accordance with this resolution, the Building Committee directed plans and estimates to be made by Captain B. 8. Alexander, of the United States corps of Engineers. ‘These plans were laid betore the Board at the last meeting, and approved; reserving, however, to the Building Committee the right to make any changes which they might think desirable during the progress of the work. Mr. Renwick having retired from the office of Architect, Captain Alexander was appointed in his place.
It will also be recollected by the Board, that shortly before the close of their last session, Mr. Gilbert Cameron, the former contractor, petitioned the Regents to be allowed to finish the building, alleging that, if he was not granted this privilege, his reputation as a builder would be injured; and also affirming that he was legally entitled to be allowed to complete the work, by the terms of his original contract, which the Board had never declared forfeited.
This subject was referred to the Building Committee, and legal advice was asked by them in reference to it, from J. M. Carlisle esq., who has acted for some years as counsel to the Board of Regents. His opinion was in favor of the claims of Mr. Cameron. The question was also submitted to P. R. Fendall, esq., United States district attorney, who coincided in opinion with Mr. Carlisle.
In accordance with these opinions, the committee concluded to let Mr. Cameron proceed with the work on the terms which he had previously submitted to them, and which. was within the estimate which had been made by the architect.
Some delay unavoidably took place in arriving at this decision, and consequently the work was not commenced until June 13, 1853. Since then, however, it has been prosecuted with great vigor, and to the entire satisfaction of the Committee. The roof has been temporarily secured, the entire frame of wood work which occupied the interior removed, and a cellar excavated. A large brick sewer has been constructed through the middle of the building, and carried outward toward the canal, by which the cellar may be thoroughly drained and all waste water discharged. The foundation walls, piers, and arches, of a spacious and commodious basement, have been completed ; the piers in the main story have been built, and the beams and arches of

<<<Page: 77>>>

the floor for the rooms above finished. The brickwork of the upper story has also been completed; in short, the masonry from the foundation to the roof, and more than nine-tenths of the brickwork, have been finished. The principal part of the work yet remaining to be accomplished, according to the statement of the architect, may be classified as follows:
1. Finishing the necessary stairways for the lecture room and gallery.
2. Supporting the roof, so that the columns in the second story may be dispensed with.
3. Completing the interior finish, such as flooring, plastering, painting, &c.
4. Fitting up the lecture room with seats.
The Committee found great difficulty in deciding upon a proper position and plan of a lecture room, and, after much deliberation and frequent consultations, finally concluded to place it in the second story, in the middle of the main building, where the greatest width could be obtained.
The original plan contemplated the placing of the large lecture room on the first floor; but in this position it was impossible to procure a sufficient space, uninterrupted by large columns, which would materially interfere with the employment of the room for the purpose intended. In endeavoring to overcome this difficulty, it was at one time proposed to support the floor of the whole space of fifty feet in width, by means of heavy girders ; but this being considered unsate, the idea was abandoned. The only plan, therefore, at the option of the Committee tor providing a suitable lecture room, was that which has been adopted. According to the present income and policy of the Institution, this is cheaper than any other plan proposed; and should the building ever be required for other purposes, such as an entire museum or library, the division walls could easily be removed, and the whole space reconverted into one large room. The plan adopted, therefore, makes the best provision for the present wants of the Institution, and can readily be adapted to any proposed change in the future application of the building. ‘The whole of the first story has been thrown into one large room, with arrangements for dividing it, if necessary, by screens, into two apartments, with a central hall or wide passage between.
The Committee have kept constantly in view the idea of rendering the main building entirely fire-proof, and of constructing it in the most durable and substantial manner. This they have been enabled to accomplish through the constant supervision of Captain Alexander, who, as it appears to the Committee, has successfully evinced in this work a combination of practical skill and scientific knowledge.
From a comparison of the work done with that which remains to be accomplished, the architect is of opinion that, should nothing happen to prevent it, the building will be finished during the present year, and ata cost within the estimate; consequently, the $58,000, recommended to be set aside by the Executive Committee in their last report, together with a portion of the income of the past year, will be sufficient to detray all the expenses, and leave the $150,000 untouched. This refers, however, mainly to the completion of the building, and not to

<<<Page: 78>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. aed:
ihe furniture, which must be purchased by degrees out of the accruing interest on the above mentioned sum.
At the last session of the Board of Regents a resolution was adopted authorizing the erection of a small building for a Magnetic Observatory. This structure has been completed, and is now furnished with instruments, and will soon be in successful operation. It consists of a small room twelve feet by sixteen, under ground, enclosed by a nine inch brick wall, within which the instruments are placed. ‘This room is surrounded by a rough stone wall, leaving a space of two feet in width on each side to permit a free Ghoulabon of air, for keeping the interior apartment dry. Above ground the structure is of wood, so finished as to correspond to some extent with the architecture of the Smithsonian Building, and consists principally of an entry and one room sixteen feet square, to serve as an office, and computing room for the observer. The whole cost of this building was $1,578 28. The entire expenditure on the building during the past year, exclusive of the magnetic observatory, is as Follow ao
Puysen: COMMACS. 2. ik a ke oe nat ee es tee ode $25,500 00 immehitect, and, draughtsmens. 24! sins ssc.0 es e23 Yess do.) 1080 70 Micsecllancoussineigentals. oc. 5 ..cace Soe e noes Cee ee 261 84 ree UIR@ eset Se il SI ES cod ork a he AL wt et) OEE AG1.,-16
27,813 70
Respectfully submitted, RICHARD RUSH, JOHN W. MAURY, > Exceutive Committee. JOSEPH HENRY,

<<<Page: 79>>>

Wasuineton, March 12, 1853.
The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o’clock, A. M. Present : Messrs. Colcock, Fitch, Mason, Maury, Totten, the Secretary, and W. W. Seaton, Treasurer.
The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
The Secretary brought before the Board the subject of the disposition of the surplus fund, and stated that Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs had offered to allow interest at five per cent. if the deposit was continued with them.
Mr. Fitch offered the following resolution, which was adopted :
Resolved, That the surplus fund of $208,000 now on deposit with Corcoran & Riggs, be continued with them for twelve months, on their proposition to pay interest thereon at five per cent; provided, that a part thereof, not exceeding $58,000, may be withdrawn for building expenditures during the year, and that they deposit the same or equivalent securities to those now held therefor, to be approved by the Regents then in Washington and the Secretary.
Mr. Colcock offered the following resolution, which was adopted :
Resolved, That during the year 1853 the sum of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) out of the Smithsonian income be, and is hereby, appropriated, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary, and with the advice of the Executive Committee, to defray the expenses of the Institution, and to carry out the several parts of the programme.
The Secretary brought before the Board the question of a new division of the income of the Institution, rendered necessary by the increase ot the general expenses, of the addition to the sum contemplated for finishing the centre building for the library and collections, and other Causes.
Mr. Fitch offered the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, 'That the subject of the distribution of the income of the Institution in the manner contemplated by the original plan of organization, be referred to a Select Committee, to consist of Messrs. Pearce, Mason, Rush, Bache, Choate, Totten, and Maury, for a report at the next session of the Board of Regents of such changes, if any, as in their opinion are desirable ; and that the same Committee be instructed to report fixed regulations relative to the reception of donations, &c.

<<<Page: 80>>>

General Totten offered the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Building Committee, and the Executive Committee jointly, be instructed to take into consideration and decide upon the propriety of making such alterations in the east wing of the Smithsonian building, as to convert it into a suitable dwelling for the Secretary, and that the Building Committee carry into effect the decision of the Jomt Committee.
The Board then, on motion, adjourned sine die.
Wasuineton, January 4, 1854."
In accordance with “a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meeting on the first Wednesday of January of each year, the Board met this day in the Regents’ room.
Present: Messrs. English, Mason, Maury, Stuart, Totten, and the Secretary.
In the absence of the Chancellor, and on motion of Mr. Maury, Mr. Mason was called to the chair.
The Secretary informed the Board of the re-appointment of Mr. Meacham, of Vermont, and the appointment of Hon. Wm. H. English, of Indiana, and Hon. David Stuart, of Michigan, as Regents of the Smithsonian Institution on the part of the House of Representatives of the present Congress.
The Secretary stated that the accounts and reports of the Institution would be ready for presentation at the next meeting ; whereupon, the Regents, after examining the building, adjourned to meet on Saturday, 14th January, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Wasuineton, January 14, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, was held in the Smithsonian building on Saturday, January 14, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Present: Messrs. Bache, English, Mason, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Stuart, Taney, Totten, the Secretary, and W. W. Seaton, Esq., Treasurer.
The Chancellor, Hon. Roger B. Taney, took the chair.
The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
The Secretary mformed the Board that a meeting of the ‘ Establishment ” had been called by order of the President of the United States, in May last. The proceedings of the meeting were then read.
Mr. Maury, on the part of the Building Committee, submitted its report, which was read and adopted.
The Treasurer, W. W. Seaton, esq., presented the details of the expenditures during the year 1853; also a general statement of the

<<<Page: 81>>>

finances; which were, on motion, referred to the Executive Committee.
The Secretary called the attention of the Board to the fact that a resolution had been adopted by the House of Representatives, appointing a Committee of nine to inquire into the expediency of withdrawing the Smithsonian fund from the Treasury of the United States, and investing it in some safe stocks.
On motion of Mr. Mason, the consideration of the subject was postponed until the Secretary should be called upon by the Committee of the House for information. and his report was presented to the Board.
The Secretary presented his report of the operations of the Institution for the year 1853, which was in part read.
On motion of Mr. Maury, it was * Resolved, That the vacancy existing in the Building Committee be filled by nomination of the Chair. ©
Whereupon, Mr. Wm. H. English was appointed.
The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, January 28, at 10 o’clock, a. m. ‘
Wasuineton, January 28, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Saturday, January 28, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a. m. Present: Messrs. Bache, English, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Stuart, Taney, Totten of the board, W. W. Seaton, esq., treasurer, and the Secretary :
The Chancellor took the chair.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
The Secretary stated to the board that honorable Joseph R. Chandler had offered to present to the House of Representatives, the petition of the board relative to funding the $150,000 of surplus income in the treasury of the United States, and to move that it might be referred to the committee which had been appointed by the House relative to the Smithsonian fund.
Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Pearce, the original memorial of the board to Congress was referred to the Executive Committee, with instructions to make such modifications in the wording of it as in their judgment might be rendered necessary by present circumstances.
A petition was presented from Gilbert Cameron, the contractor of the building, requesting the payment of the money due him, which had been kept back on account of a law suit between himself and one of the sub-contractors.
In reference to the same, Mr. Maury, on behalf of the Building Committee, presented a letter from J. M. Carlisle, esquire, attorney of the board, stating that the suit had been dismissed, and that the court had decided that the Board of Regents could not be sued. Mr. Maury also presented, on the part of the Building Committee, a letter from Joseph H. Bradley, esquire, requesting that the money be retained by the Board until the before mentioned law suit was finally decided.
On motion of Mr. Pearce, the subject was referred to a committee,

<<<Page: 82>>>

with power to order the money to be paid in whole or in part, if in their judgment it was thought proper.
The chair appointed Messrs. Mason, Meacham and Totten, as the committee.
The Secretary laid before the board a bill from Henry Parish for a copy of Canina’s work on architecture, purchased by James Renwick, junior, for the Institution in 1847, and now in the library, but which according to an accompanying letter from Mr. Renwick had never been paid.
On motion of Mr. Meacham, the Secretary was directed to settle the bill, provided on examining the accounts, no evidence could be found of its having been paid.
The Building Committee exhibited to the Board the drawings for the new lecture room.
The Secretary read the continuation of his report relative to the publications, correspondence, magnetism and meteorology.
A number of letters received since the last meeting, and the answers to them, were read to illustrate the character of the correspondence of the Institution.
Mr. Meacham offered the following resolution :
Resolved, That the Secretary and other officers of the Smithsonian Institution be directed to furnish the Board of Regents with estimates of appropriations necessary to be made in order to carry on the Institution the ensuing year, according to the laws for its organization.
After some discussion, the resolution was postponed for further discussion until the next meeting.
On motion, the board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 11, at 10 o’clock a. m.
Wasuineton, February 11, 1854.
A quorum not being present, the board adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 18, at 10 o’clock a. m.
WasuineTon, February 18, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was held on Saturday, February 18, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a. m. Present: Messrs. Bache, English, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, ‘Taney of the Board, and the Secretary :
The Chancellor took the chair.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
A communication was read by the Secretary, in reference to the Wynn estate, which, on motion of Mr. Pearce, was referred to Mr. Mason, to whom prior communications on the same subject had been referred.
A memorial was presented from Dr. 8. Spooner of New York, offering to present to the Institution the original copper-plates of the Musée Francais and the Musée Royal, on condition that it would publish under his superintendence an edition of these works.

<<<Page: 83>>>

On motion of Mr. Pearce, the Secretary was directed, on the part of the Institution, respectfully to decline the proposition of Dr. Spooner, the Regents not considering themselves authorized to engage in such an e eee prize.
The Secretary stated to the Board that Professor Wilson, of the English Commission to the Exhibition of the Industry of All Nations at New York, had presented to the Smithsonian Institution a set of models,
casts, and drawings, to be used in teaching the arts of design.
The Secretary proposed to lend these to the Metropolitan Mechanics’ Institute, of this city, for the use of its School of Design 3; which proposition was agreed to by the Board.
The Secretary read ‘the correspondence between the Smithsonian Institution and the California Academy of Natural Sciences, in which the latter authorize the former to purchase a full set of meteorological and magnetic instruments for the use of the society ; the means of defraying the expense of the purchase having been generously provided by its President, Dr. A. Randall.
A memoir on the ‘Europo American Physical Man” was laid before the Regents, which had been submitted to the Institution for publication since the last meeting of the Board.
Professor Bache presented a specimen of the photographic register of the motions of the magnetic needle, taken at the magnetic observatory of the Smithsonian iaeuitati ion.
The Secret tary informed the Board that the annual meeting of the United States Agricultural Society would be held on the 22d instant, in the Srcheomian Institution, and read the following extract from the address of the President of that Society :
‘Our location at the national capital gives us peculiar facilities for intercommunication and for intercourse with members of Congress, representing all parts of our widely extended country. We may also secure many benefits from the Smithsonian Institution, whose objects are the general increase of knowledge and _ the promotion of science, objects so analogous to those of this Association as to give importance
oO to the question whether reciprocal benefits might not be expected from
closer relations. By the courtesy of this Institution we have been permitted to occupy their commodious apartments, and an inquiry should be made by our Executive officers, or a special committee, to ascertain what room or rooms can BE ean for the future accommodation of this Society. We need a public building, or offices in some existing edifice, for our Corresponding Secretary ava Treasurer, for the preservation of our records, and of the agricultural seeds and products which are now in our possession, or may be hereafter required, and also for an agricultural library, museum, and cabinet.”
On motion of Mr. Maury, the Secretary was authorized to offer such accommodations and facilities to the United States Agricultural Society as the Institution had at its disposal.
The continuation of the Secretary’s report, relative to the Library, Museum, and Exchanges, was presented, but the reading was _postponed till the next meeting.
The resolution offered by Mr. Meacham, at the last meeting of the Board, was then taken up for consideration.

<<<Page: 84>>>

Mr. Pearce moved to amend it by inserting the “Executive Committee and the Secretary,” in place of the “Secretary and the other other officers of the Institution.”’
On motion of Mr. English, the resolution and amendment were referred to the Special Committee which was appointed at the last session on the distribution of the imcome of the Institution, consisting of Messrs. Pearce, Mason, Rush, Bache, Choate, Totten, and Maury.
As Mr. Choate had signified, in a letter to the Secretary, his inability to attend the meetings of this Committee, on motion of Mr. English, his place was filled by the appointment of Mr. Meacham.
The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 25, at 16 o’clock, a. m.
Wasuineton, February 25, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was held on Saturday, February 25, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Present: Messrs. Douglas, English, Maury, Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Rush, Stuart, and the Secretary.
Hon. Stephen A. Douglas appointed from the Senate of the United States as a Regent of the Institution, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the expiration of the term of Hon. R. M. Charlton, appeared and took his seat in the Board.
In the absence of ghe Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the chair.
The minutes of the last meeting were then read and approved.
The Secretary laid before the Board for inspection, the proof-sheets and illustrations of a memoir, by John Chappelsmith, on the ‘Tornado which occurred near New Harmony, Indiana, in L852.
The Secretary stated that, in accordance with the resolution of the Board at its last meeting, the use of the lecture room of the Institution had been given to the United States Agricultural Society, which had held its sessions there during the past week.
The continuation of the Report of the Secretary was read.
The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, March 4, 1854.
Wasuineton, March 4, 1854. A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Satur-
day, March 11, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Wasuineton, March 11, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Saturday, March 11, 1854, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Present: Messrs. Bache, English, Maury, Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Totten, and the Secretary.
In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the chair.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
The Report of the Executive Committee in relation to the finances

<<<Page: 85>>>

and expenditures of the Institution, during the year 1853, was presented by the Chairman, Mr. Pearce.
On motion of Mr. Mason, the report was accepted.
The Committee to which was referred the resolution of Mr. Fitch, offered at the last session, and also the resolution offered by Mr. Meacham, at the meeting of the Board, January 28, 1854, reported the following resolution, and stated that a full report on the general snbject would be made hereafter :
Resolved, That the Executive Committee and the Secretary of the Institution be instructed to submit to the Board of Regents, at the cémmencement of each and every year, an estimate, in detail, of all sums which will be required for the expenditures of the current year, as a basis for specific appropriations to be made by the Board.
On motion, the resolution was adopted.
The Secretary stated to the Board that a memorial and resolution, relative to funding $150,000 in the Treasury of the United States, had been submitted by Hon. Joseph R. Chandler to the House of Representatives, and had been referred to the Committee previously appointed by the House to consider the expediency of withdrawing the Smithsonian fund from the Treasury of the United States and investing it in some safe stock.
The Special Committee to which was referred the subject of payment to Gilbert Cameron of the money due him which had been kept back on account of a lawsuit between him and one of the sub-contractors, reported that they had ‘‘examined the question referred to them, and were of the opinion that the balance dhe Gilbert Cameron should be paid to him, and direct accordingly.”
The Secretary stated that, in accordance with this direction, he had paid Mr. Cameron $10,000, but had reserved a part of the money until the account could be critically examined.
A memorial from the American Philosophical Society to the Congress of the United States, praying ‘that the President of the United States should be authorized to enter into such correspondence with the government of Great Britain as may secure, in a reasonable time, a proper uniformity of comage in the mode that may be found most discreet and convenient,’ was laid before the Board for its co-operation and approval.
On motion of Mr. Mason, the subject was referred to the Executive Committee.
A communication was read from Mr. J. R. Lambdin, President of the American Academy of Fine Arts, Philadelphia, recommending that the Smithsonian Institution should procure moulds from the best and most useful specimens of the collection in the British Museum, known as the Elgin Marbles, and that from these moulds, casts should be produced and sold at cost to such academies of art, &c., as may desire their possession.
On motion of Mr. Mason, this subject was referred to the Executive Committee.
The continuation of the Report of the Secretary in relation to the Museum, Exchanges, &c., was read.
The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.

<<<Page: 86>>>

SPECIAL MEETING. Wasuineton, April 29, 1854.
A special meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution,
called by the Secretary .at the request of Messrs. Meacham,
English and Stuart, was held on Saturday, April 29, 1854, at 10 o’clock. Present: Messrs. Bache, Douglas, Hawley, Maury, Meacham, Pearce,
Taney, and the Secretary. The Chancellor took the Chair. were read and approved.
The minutes of the last meeting
Mr. Pearce, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the following estimate of the appropriations to be made for the year 1854.
“The Executive Committee recommend the followimg appropriations for the present year, from the income of the Institution :
Wor building... 0... ccccssccccesedciccsees UAC OOOCE jaioretars For expenses of the meetings of the “Board Stef ereist oieiels Peaentestis ctor For lighting and heating.......... ceeee . Male Nel siovere stern HOG POStAGE. c\cyar<.ciee creleie seieis soie's aie saioisokeieleteie lShefeteolsrolerel= For transportation and exchange wjaie\etslaysis\eisve atate ‘ated sTel etails eatasaseie ae | For stationery........ sisatete sidiceveicl si siete’! ¢/sidso's\\en\ele Hodboaonds odd For general printing..... eMfefavatal atevafel alalics «i sicfeiove'sfohele/stelste| were etalsisicler For apparatus........ AD OCOO0 FO pdodoododioodcedonoG | For incidentals general........ Haislssiersiesis\s Aocondadsodbene aaenoe SALARIES GENERAL. Secretary .....0....Lower secccswesesesiones see ee $3,000 00 | Olin ocaceocbomcno oT siclofeie) selevevaleVesieielsieloelsielsietelsisietctels 1,000 00 BO OKSKEE PON <:0\+: oocte)evcinie:«iaie o-ei vs -orehe Gee loie ele 'sie SOUICOED 200 00 Janitor...... STO OOOCOOUCOC Dialoreiel are’ slellofe) sist ssexee aie ee 400 00 Waborer <\. sti <0 0 HOCOI OD ECO OD ODODUOOGODOSG cdo TOOT 250 00 Watchman. /-ic5o..<)«..< SS OS CHD BUS nOGUOOU.L cod ORD OOUODE 365 00 EixinagClerkKiMine’. ./s'ee «siesies «;s\sie Somimcadedi S00) i) Smithsonian Contributions.........0..+ee00 Nelesiorerelanll Slevel opereiateseys Reports on progress of knowledge............ asichetenele|chaVereteystotst eke Other publications......... Stalls tevofoe cleplelecieieieistelclele « cie\\s\e/cbeeleicla aye Meteorolomy ccc. sciee se cose s Beno dna non on moo God modcod oldc Computations........... mot oto velata shetofotencle lorelcreieje ceo! efefies evel s¥evepeleielsveless NEG CLUT EN teretelenyolesotelesheseiclarceys\eVele!s\s evel ca) o/ciere\eais'e:e0's eleiele|icisieieeieia eis @ LIBRARY.
Salary of Assistant Secretary... .....2e.essesesseeeee 2,500 00 Salaries of assistants in the Library—one at $600 “and
ANOLHETE ACO weeierereteleyareiss/s!eiclel ss elereciclsisiereers esi! 1540700 Purchaserofy booksereleyeeie-'sac1< em «1s Sietonle: © afoeletol kel svofer 1,800 00 Incidentals ........ sooegs cpudepmoougocdun soooneoa. 160 00 Binding ..... S0060c) Go OO DU GODOT OICG OD OO OOON COE 250 00 Stereotyping....... areVeleelclolac a SnG Apooocogcod) . LBW sOU
salary of Assistant Secretary.jec< 6... eciicceccscceeass 2,000 00 Explorations......... sfofaterststess Materelareisclcrersiers cic eie ceveieys 250 00 PMICOHOL, SC... 5's. s aFa(shelolestalareielests Soomoucomucseu) eau) Assistance or labor.......sssse0e, elstarel ater sioie aistotehers 100 00 Apparatus’... + o0.0* vie Savetelatevet-l-vetsler\atetsle) os) sisic s/eois <i else 100 00 Inigidentals: << ./..1..600 0's16 5010 0500 00.6.9 DOU SORGUEDCOOOC 100 00 PABLO MUG 0/050 0.66 oeoe Sue's errors 4 aieleielafaterate 500 00 Glass jars .. wis (ef nsje/stelelefetsiolerels|sje) stsie,= Riccvacciorstel, eas SOUL UO AED UMENEELETOR, fos, o 3/01 01003) a) 0-0/6) wae, oeacltbet aston are/ojnieatbvelaiots| Slaveieieieaitin «
ee ee eee eens
$250 00 600 00 500 00
1,600 00 250 00 600 00 350 00 835 00
jee eres ces per ereeeceoe lew eeereeee jee ees seeee e280
eee ere ewer
6,015 00
6,000 00 500 00 250 00
ee eceeeesese esceeeseen ecco eeseee eevee
$7,000 00
11,000 90
10,850 00
9,550 00 100 00
38,500 00

<<<Page: 87>>>

The Committee have not recommended an equal distribution between the active operations on the one hand, and the Library, Museum, &c., on the other, because the compromise resolutions which require such equality of distribution do not go into effect until the completion of the building.” J. A. PEARCE;
A. D. BACHE, Executive Committee. J; Ge OT TEN.
On motion of Mr. Pearce, the above Report was laid upon the table.
The Secretary presented the following letter to the Board, in compliance with which he had called this special meeting:
Wasuineton, April 13, 1854.
Prof. Jos. Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
In accordance with the provision of the third section of an act establishing the Institution, the undersigned request you to appoint a special meeting of the Regents on Saturday, the 29th inst., at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Mr. Meacham then stated the reasons why he had requested this special meeting.
Mr. Pearce stated that the subject brought before the Board by Mr. Meacham, was now under consideration by a Special Committee appointed by the Regents, which would be ready to report at the next meeting.
On motion, the subject was postponed till the next meeting of the Board.
The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, May 13, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Wasurineton, May 15, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Saturday, May 18, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Present: Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Totten, and the Secretary.
The Chancellor being absent, Mr. Hawley was called to the chair. The minutes of the last meeting were then read, and after correction, approved. |
Letters from Hon. R. B. Taney, Chancellor of the Institution, and from Hon. Richard Rush, stating their inability to attend this meeting of the Board, were read by the Secretary.
Mr. Pearce, Chairman of the Special Committee on the resolutions of Messrs. Fitch and Meacham, stated that it was ready to report, but as it was considered desirable to have a full meeting of the Board when the subject should be discussed, he moved that the Board adjourn.

<<<Page: 88>>>

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, 2Uth inst., at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Wasuineton, May 20, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Saturday, May 20th, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Present: Messrs. Bache, Choate, Douglas, English, Hawley, Maury, Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Stuart, Totten, and the Secretary.
In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Hawley was called to the chair. The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Mr. Pearce, airman of the Special Committee* appointed by the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to which was referred the resolutions of Hon. Mr. Fitch and Hon. Mr. Meacham relative to the distribution of the income of the Smithsonian fund, etc., made the following report :
The Committee who were directed to report whether it is desirable to make any changes in the distribution of the income of the Institution, in the manner contemplated by the original plan of organization, report as follows :
The distribution and application of the Smithsonian income should be made, so as to answer most effectually and. beneficially the purposes for which the Institution was endowed and established. In making such distribution and application, the Regents should faithfully observe the requirements of the act of Congress establishing the Institution, and exercise no discretion but that which the law allows to them.
The purpose of the Institution is disclosed in tbe title of the act, in its preamble, and in its first section. The title is “* An act to establish the Smithsonian Institution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.’ The preamble states the bequest, by James Smithson, of all his property to the United States, to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, ‘¢an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” It declares the acceptance of the trust, and “therefore for the faithful execution of the said trust according to the will of the liberal and enlightened donor,” the first section constitutes an establishment by the name of the Smithsonian Institution “ for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
The fifth section enacts that the Regents shall cause to be erected “a suitable building of sufficient size, and with suitable rooms or halls for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of objects of natural history, including a geological and mineralogical cabinet ; alse a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of art, and the necessary
* This committee consisted of the following Regents: Hon. J. A. Pearce, Hon. J. M. Mason, Hon. Richard Rush, Hon. John W. Maury, Gen. J. G. Totten, Prof. AD. Bache, and the Hon. J. Meacham. The gentleman last named does not concur in this report.
baci

<<<Page: 89>>>

Pd EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
lecture rooms,” &c. This section points out certain means and instrumentalities by which the Institution is to ‘execute the trust” “ according to the will of the liberal and enlightened donor.” But it does not limit the Regents to these means and instrumentalities. A large discretion is elsewhere given to them to employ other means and instrumentalities ‘ for the promotion of the purpose of the testator ’’—that is, “for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
“ The eighth section, inits last clause, directs an annual appropriation from the interest of the funds belonging to the Institution “ not exceeding an average of $25,000 annually, for the gradual formation of a library composed of valuable works pertaiming to all departments of human knowledge.”
And the ninth section enacts that of “any other moneys which have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as interestapon the said Smithsonian fund, not here appropriated, or not Pequired for the purposes herein provided, the said managers are hereby authorized to make such disposal as they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the purpose of the testator, anything hereim contained to the contrary notwithstanding.”
Let us see now, how far the Regents have complied with these requireme nts of the law.
They have caused to be erected a building, which is, in the judgment of the Board, suitable, of sufficient size, of plain and durable materials, with suitable rooms for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of the objects mentioned in the fifth section of the act. The building, it is true, is not yet completed in all its parts. This has
een the result, partly of design, and partly of accident. As the law specified no period within which the building should be completed, the time of its completion was necessarily within the discretion of the Regents. It was obvious that if they should not hurry its completion, but extend the work upon it through a series of years, they would save a large amount of accruing interest, which, when the building should be finished, might be added to the permanent fund, whereby the means of accomplishing the purposes of the testator would be largely increased. An additional reason for this was, that the structure, ‘ims slowly and
cautiously erected, would be more solid and permanent. This policy, therefore, was adopted, and it was determined that the building should be finished in five years. An accident, well known to the Board, and which in the end must prove to have been fortunate, required a change in the plan of a part of the edifice, and a larger expenditure of money. This cause has further delayed the completion of the building. But during the present year it will be finished on the liberal scale required by the law, and one hundred and fitty thousand dollars of accrued interest will be saved, to be added to the principal.
In the mean time, the Regents have made appropriations of money for the various objects specified in the fifth section of the act, by which and other means they have complied as well with the letter as the
spirit of the law. A large and valuable collection of objects of natural History has been made, and for the most part, classified; a geological and mineralogical cabinet has been provided, and a chemical laboratory
5 has been fitted up, in which researches and experiments have been

<<<Page: 90>>>

made. "The building contains an apartment intended for a gallery of art; and some works of art, a valuable collection of engravings, have been purchased.
A lecture room has been finished, and for several years lectures have been given at the expense of the Institution, on scientific and hterary, abstruse and popular subjects, the admission to which has been free. . A library of 12,000 volumes and 8,000 pamphlets and parts of volumes has been acquired by purchase, exchanges, and other means, containing many rare and valuable works pertaining to ali branches of knowledge, such as are not to be found in general libraries, and are most highly prized by men of science and research.
This is a very good beginning according to the plan for the gradual formation of a library, which the act points out.
Of the entire amount expended from the commencement of the Institution, a little less than one-eighth has been given to researches and publications. The rest has been applied to the special objects mentioned in the act, and to the general expenses of the Institution.
In the act establishing the Institution, Congress carefully and wisely forbore to fix the amount or proportion of the annual income which should be appropriated to any of the objects mentioned in the fifth section. They did not even determine, or limit the sum which should be expended on the building, nor have they in any manner indicated that prominence should be given to any particular means or instrumentality for increasing and diffusing knowledge. All this they have left to the discretion of the Regents, to whom they entrusted the conduct of the Institution. ‘They have, indeed, declared that annual appropriations should be made for the graduai formation of a library, and have provided that such appropriations shall not exceed $25,000 in the average.
This is nothing but a limitation upon the discretion of the Regents, and can by no rule of construction be considered as intimating the desire of Congress that such sum should be axnualiy appropriated. ‘The limitation, while it prevented the Regents from exceeding that sum, left them full discretion as to any amount within the limit. The interest on the Smithsonian Fund was about $30,000 per annum, and Congress could not but know that an appropriation of five-sixths of that amount per annum would leave a remainder entirely insufficient to defray the salaries and ordinary expenses of an Institution such as was
‘designed by the act, and that nothing would be left for the care of collections, the lectures, and other means of promoting the purpose of the testator. In short, the act points owt certain instrumentalities to be employed in the execution of the trust, created by, and for the purposes specified in the willof Smithson, and gives to the Managers or Regents authority to dispose of all the income not required for the purposes specified in the act, in such manner as they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the purpose of the testator. As Congress did not determine what portion of the income was to be applied to the purposes specified in the act, it follows that such determination is to be made by those to whom they intrusted the conduct of the business of the Institution; and thus the Regents are clearly invested with the power of determining how much of that income is required respectively for library, for museum, for lectures, or for any of the objects specified in the fifth

<<<Page: 91>>>

section, and what disposition they will make of so much of the income as they do not think requisite to apply to these objects. So the Regents of 1847, who adopted the plan of organization, understood the law. So they reported to Congress. ‘The Board of Regents, however its members have been changed from time to time, have always so understood it, and Congress, to whom they have annually and faithfully reported their proceedings, have never questioned the propriety of the construction.
In organizing the Institution, different opinions indeed were entertained by different members of the Board, as to the most effectual means of promoting the purpose of Smithson. ‘The conflict of opinions resulted in the adoption of certain resolutions, which have been called the ‘ compromise resolutions.” These, while they recognize the intention of Congress, and the duty of the Regents, to provide for the accumulation of specimens of art and objects of natural history, and the gradual formation of a library; pertaining to all branches of knowledge, &c., also declare it to be expedient, and demanded by the will of Sinitison, that in the plan of organization, the increase of knowledge by original research should form an essential feature; that for this end premiums should be offered for original papers containing positive additions to the sum of human knowledge, and that these and other suitable papers should be published in transactions of the Institution periodically, or occasionally, &c. The seventh of these resolutions is in these words :
“¢ Resolved, That for the purpose of carrying into effect the two principal modes of executing the act and trust pointed out in the resolutions herewith submitted, the permanent appropriations out of the accruing interest shall, so soon as the buildings are completed, be annually, as follows ; that is to say:
“« Kirst. For the formation of a library composed of valuable works pertaining to all departments of useful knowledge, and for the procuring, arranging, and preserving of the various collections of the Institution, as well of natural histor y, and objects of foreign and curious research, and of elegant art, as others, including alae and all other general expenses conneeed with the same, excepting those of the first complete arrangement of all such collections and objects as now belong to the United States in the museum of the Institution, when completed, together with one-half of the salary of the Secretary, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars.
“ Secondly. For the preparation and publication of transactions, reports, and all other publications of the Institution, including appropriations for original researches, and premiums for original papers 3 for the delivery of all lectures and payment of all lecturers, and for all general expenses connected with said lectures and publications, together with one-half of the salary of the Seerctary, the remainder of the annually accruing interest; it being understood that all gencral and incidental expenses not specially connected with either of the above two great divisions of the plan of the Institution shall be equally divided between them.”
It will be seen that this division of the income of the Institution between the two principal modes of executing the trust was to be made so soon as ‘the buildings were completed,” and not before.

<<<Page: 92>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 85 As the building is not completed, this division is not yet obligatory under the compromise resolutions. For some years the annual appropriations for the purposes of the Institution were specific, and were applied accordingly. But during the last two years they have been general, and a discretion has been exercised by the Secretary and the Executive Committee, which has resulted in applying to researches, publications, and lectures, an amount somewhat larger than that which has been applied to the library, museum, &c. But this is clearly no violation, as has been charged, of a compromise which is not by its very terms to go into effect until the completion of the building.
The commitee think it desirable that the appropriations should be specific, and have already so reported to the Board by a resolution submitted on the 11th of March, 1854; and at the last meeting of the Regents the Executive Committee submitted estimates of appropriations in detail for the present year.
Before expressing an opinion on these resolutions, the committee deem it their duty at this time to remark upon the plan which was discussed seven years ago, but which is now revived, of devoting the greater part of the income to the accumulation of a great library, thus either abandoning the active operations of research and publications, or so restricting this means of increasing and diffusing knowledge as to deprive it of all sensible value.
It has already been remarked that the language of the eighth section which directs the gradual formation of a library, is not mandatory as to the amount which shall be thus expended, and that the ninth section: authorizes the Regents, after applying so much of the income as may be required for the purposes mentioned in the act, to dispose of the residue of the interest upon the Smithsonian fund in such manner “as they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the purpose of the testator, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding.” — It is manifest, from what has been said before, that these sections of the law leave to the Regents a large discretion as to the amounts to be applied to the objects specified in the act, and in the choice of other means for promoting the purpose of the testator.
What, then, are the considerations which should govern them in rejecting this plan, which proposes a great library as the best and chief, if not the only, means of executing the trust created by the will of Smithson, and fulfilling their own duty under the law?
The ‘increase and diffusion of knowledge among men’’ are the great purposes of this munificent trust. ‘To increase knowledge implies research, or new and active investigation, in some one or more of the departments of learning.. To diffuse knowledge among men implies active measures for its distribution, so far as may be, among mankind.
Neither of these purposes could be accomplished or materially advanced by the accumulation of a great library at the city of Washington. This would be to gather within the walls of a building here those fruits of learning which had been reaped elsewhere. It would be the hiving of knowledge, not its increase and diffusion. It would be the collection of what vhilosophical inquirers, men of research, of observation, and of original thought had ascertained, conceived, or invented, and already published to the world. But it would not of itself add to the sum of

<<<Page: 93>>>

human knowledge, it would not increase the stores of learning, but only bring them together. It would develop no new truths, rev eal no hidden laws of nature, but only contain the record of what might be already known; so that in no proper sense could it be said to increase knowledge. Neither would it diffuse knowledge, except within a limited sphere. The Institution would necessarily be local, for although it might aid the few men of research residing in Washington, and such students and investigators as occasionally visited the city, it would fail to accomplish the more extensive purpose of the testator and of the law, since it could not be expected to draw hither the great body of such men. These must always be scattered over the country, engaged in pursuits which require their residence elsewhere, and with only occasional opportunities of aiding their inquiries by resort to the library of the Smithsonian Institution. While, therefore, a well selected library of valuable books pertaining to all departments of learning may well be one of the means employed by the Institution, its purpose requires other instrumentalities by which knowledge may be increased and dif fused among men. We must never forget that both the will of Smithson and the act of Congress recognize that, as a nation is appointed the great dispenser of the fruits of his munificence, so these benefits are to be wnversal, and their recipients to be men everywhere and in all time.
If the language of the will had been ‘to increase and diffuse knowledge among ihe people of the Umted States,” a library would be but a feeble and imperfect instrument as an active agent even for that limited purpose. The accumulation of books in the political centre of a great country, or even in the centre of population of a numerous people, would no doubt gratify the pride of the nation, and be attended with some profitable results. But such a library would not ensure mental activity to enquirers who should live remote from its locality, and its relation to all increase of knowledge would be merely incidental. It would have no effective operation in the thirty-one States which constitute the nation, or people of the Union, and instead of being diffusive in its nature, would be centralizing in its influence and passive in its character. Even if the will and the act of Congress were limited by the terms supposed, by no fair construction could the formation of a library be considered as an execution of the trust. But when we consider that the language of the will is not thus limited, and that the benefits of the bequest are intended for mankind, we cannot imagine how the establishment of a library could be considered as corresponding to the requisitions of a purpose so wide and liberal. That Smithson did not intend a library to be the prominent feature in the Institution contemplated by his bequest, may be inferred from the fact that his will did not mention it, when a single word would have been sufficient for this purpose.
And that Congress did not design to indicate a library as the principal object of the establishment which they founded by law to carry out the purpose of Smithson, will be made to appear by an examination of the enactment.
In the construction of a law of Congress, the opinions expressed in the speeches of some of those who voted for it cannot be taken as the
opinion of all or even of the major part of them, but the act must be

<<<Page: 94>>>

construed according to the general import and evident intention of all its parts.
If we can construe the law from its own provisions, it would be exceedingly unsafe and improper to interpret 1t by reference to the opinions of a portion ouly of those who voted for it, being the minor part of them. To do this would be to make the opinions of a few control the acts and intentions of the majority as expressed in the law, and in effect to give to those few the law making ower. In the present case the evident intention was to carry out the pur ose of Smithson’s will, name ly: “the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
The title of the act, its preamble and provisions, would have been palpably absurd, if their object had been only or chiefly to found a great library. ‘To describe a library as an institution ‘for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men,’’ would be a preposterous abuse of terms. So, too, ‘to erect a suitable building of sufficient size, with suitable rooms or halls for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of objects of natural history, geological, mineralogical, and botanical specimens, classed and arranged so as to facilitate the study of them, with a chemical laboratory, lecture rooms, &c.,”” as provided in sections 5 and 6, is wholly inconsistent with the idea of an institution, ef which a library is to be the principal agent.
It is true that the eighth section of the act authorizes an application of an annual sum, not exceeding $25,000, for the gradual formation of a library. This is in great disproportion to the various objects before recited in the act, and if it had been mandatory, would have made the general authority and discretion given to the Regents in the ninth section, absurd and nugatory, and would indeed have equally defeated the other provisions before mentioned. Such an appropriation, if made, would establish a great library, but not such an institution as is indicated by the title of the bill, or warranted by its various provisions. Instead of a Secretary with assistants, it should have provided for a Librarian, with an assistant as secretary, and assistant librarians. Instead of providing for a building on a liberal scale, with suitable rooms or hails for a chemical laboratory, lecture rooms, &c., not indicating the library as ef paramount importance, but according to the order of enumeration, placing it after other objects, the law would have declared it to be of primary importance, and designated the other objects as incidental or subsidiary to the Library. The act, in its various terms and provisions, does not seem to have been the result of plans entirely harmonious and consistent, but bears some marks of conflicting opinions ; and the large discretion allowed in the ninth section appears to have been intended to give to the Regents the authority to reconcile and determine those difficulties which Congress could not avoid or provide for, to their own satisfaction.
Nothing, however, seems to be clearer than that the Legislature did not intend a public library to be the principal instrument of the Institution. The third section enacts that ‘the business of the Instituion shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents.” The terms of Smithson’s will requires that Washington should be the locality of the Institution; but, if this section had reference to a public library, absorbing almost the whole interest of the fund, would

<<<Page: 95>>>

such language have been employed? If a library at Washington was to be ea blen oe it was wholly unnecessary to provide that the business ot the Institution should be conducted there, since the business of a library must be conducted where it is placed. The use of this language would seem to imply active transactions and not to refer to books. 'The application of $25,000 annually, (five-sixths of the whole income at the date of the act) to the purchase of books, would be inconsistent with, and subversive of the whole tenor of all that precedes the eighth section. Section ninth is singularly comprehensive, and ap-
pears to indicate a consciousness on the part of the framers of the bill,
that its provisions might be proved by experience to be incongruous.
For this they provided the true remedy by investing the Regents with full power to use their judgment in the premises, subje ct only to the purpose of the will of Smithson, and so much of the law as was mandatory and peremptory, ‘all other provisions to the contrary, notwithstanding.”
On the whole, therefore, the Committee think that neither the law nor the will of Smithson required the Regents to consider a great library as the paramount object of the Institution.
Its purpose requires means of exciting and sustaining research, of stimulating and directing original enquiries, the results of which conslitule an increase of ~ knowledge, and the publication of which diffuses it.
Scientific researches are often supposed by the uninformed to be of little or no real importance, and indeed-are frequently ridiculed as barren of all practical utility. But nothing is more mistaken than this. The most valuable and productive of the arts of life, the most important and wonder-working inventions of modern times, owe their being and value to scientific investigations. By these have been discovered physic: il truths and laws, the intelligent application of which to practical inventions has given immense benefits to the world. The germs of these valuable improvements and inventions have been found and developed by scientitic research, the original forms of which have often seemed to the many to be as idle and useless as they were curious. A proposition relating to the pendulum, which for many years remained only a curious theoretical relation, ultimately furnished a unit for the standard measures of States and nations. The discovery that a magnetic needle could be moved by a galvanic current, seemed for a long time more curious than useful, and yet it contained the germ of all that was afterwards developed in the te legr aph. It has Been well remarked that numerous applications and inventions alw: vys result from the discovery of a scientific principle, so that there are many Fultous for every Franklin.
There is no branch of industrial art which does not owe for the most part its improved processes to such investigations, although the artizans who employ them are often ignorant of their true source. Smithson, who was himself a man of science and research, and a contributor to the philosophical transactions of the Royal Society, well knew this. The members of Congress who framed the law were not ignorant of it,
So and the provisions foak a chemical laboratory, and collections of natural

<<<Page: 96>>>

history, proved that they looked to the prosecution of such inquiries under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution.
Wisely, therefore, did the first Board of Regents propose, in order to INCREASE KNOWLEDGE—
First. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths, and to
ublish these and such other papers of suitable character as should be offered to the Institution.
Second. 'To cause particular researches to be made by competent
ersons.
And in order to DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE—
First. “‘'To publish occasionally a series of practical reports on the progress of the different branches of knowledge.”
Second. ‘“'To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general interest.”
The results which have been produced by the Institution have received the approbation of the learned in every part of the civilized world, and fully justify the wisdom of the plan adopted by the Regents, and successfully carried into operation by the Secretary.
As a proof of this, we need only state the following facts given in the last report of the Regents to Congress.
“The Institution has promoted astronomy, by the aid furnished the researches which led to the discovery of the true orbit of the new planet Neptune, and the determination of the perturbations of this planet and the other bodies of the solar system, on account of their mutual attraction., It has also aided the same branch of science by furnishing instruments and other facilities to the Chilian expedition, under Lieutenant Gillis; and by preparing and publishing an ephemeris of Neptune, which has been adopted by all the astronomers of the world.
“Tt has advanced geography, by providing the scientific traveller with annual lists of the occultations of the principal stars, by the moon, for the determination of longitude; by the preparation of tables for ascertaining heights with the barometer; and by the collection and publication of important facts relative to the topography of different parts of the country, particularly of the valley of the Mississippi.
“Tt has established an extended system of meteorology, consisting of a corps of several hundred intelligent observers, who are daily noteing the phases of the weather in every part of the continent of North America. It has imported standard instruments, constructed hundreds of compared thermometers, barometers, and psychrometers, and has furnished improved tables and directions for observing with these instruments the various changes of the atmosphere, as to temperature, pressure, moisture, &c. It has collected, and is collecting, from its observers, an extended series of facts which are yielding deductions of great interest in regard to the climate of this country and the meteorology of the globe.
“The Institution has advanced the science of geology, by its researches and original publications. It has made a preliminary exploration of the remarkable region on the upper Missouri river called the Bad Lands, and is now printing a descriptive memoir on the extra

<<<Page: 97>>>

ordinary remains which abound in that locality. It has assisted in explorations relative to the distribution in this country of the remains of microscopic animals found in immense quantities in different parts of the United States.
“It has made important contributions to botany, by means of the published results of explorations 1 in Texas, New Mexico, and California; and by the preparation and publication of an extended memoir, illustrated with colored engravings, on the sea-plants of the coast of North America.
“Tt has published several important original papers on physiology, comparative anatomy, zoology, and different branches of descriptive natural history ; and has prepared and printed, for distribution to travellers, a series of directions for collecting and preserving specimens.
“It has advanced terrestrial magnetism, by furnishing instruments for determining the elements of ‘ne magnetic ‘force, to various exploring expeditions ; and by publishing the results of observations made aden its direction, at the capense of the government.
“Tt has collected and published the statistics of the libraries of the United States ; and perfected a plan of stereotyping catalogues, which will render effective, as a combined whole, all the scattered libraries of the country.
“The Institution has also been instrumental in directing attention to American antiquities, and has awakened such an interest in the subject as will tend to the collection and study of all the facts which ean be gathered relative to the ancient mhabitants of this continent. It has also rendered available for the purposes of the ethnologist and philanthropist the labors of our missionaries among the Dakotas, by’ publishing a volume on the language of this tribe of Indians, and has done good service to comparative philology by the distribution of directions for collecting Indian vocabularies.
“Tt has established an extended system of literary and scientific exchanges, both foreign and domestic, and annually transmits, between the most icon societies and individuals, hundreds of packages of valuable works. It has presented its own publications, free of expense, to all the first-class libraries of the world, and thus rendered them accessible, as far as possible, to all persons who are interested in their study. No restriction of copyright has been placed on their republication; and the truths which they contain are daily finding their way to the general public, through the labors of popular writers and teachers. 'The dis tribution of its publications and its system of exchanges has served not only to advance and diffuse knowledge, but also to increase the reputation, and, consequently, the influence of our country 3 to promote a kindly and sympathetic feeling between the New World and the Old— alike grateful to the philosopher rand the philanthropist.
“These are the fruits of what is called the system of active operations of the Institution, and its power to produce other and continuous results. is only limited by the amount of the income which can be appropriated to it, since each succeeding year has presented new and important fields for its cultivation. All the anticipations indulged with regard to it have

<<<Page: 98>>>

r THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 91
been fully realized; and after an experience of six years, there can now be no doubt of the true policy of the Regents in regard to it.”
Reports of a more popular character have been published, or are in preparation, which are well calculated to diffuse knowledge. Such is the report on the recent improvements in the chemical arts, by Messrs. Booth & Morfit, prepared and published under the direction of the Institution. The Secretary has said of it ‘that though chiefly intended to benefit the practical man, yet it will be found interesting to the general reader, as exhibiting the cotemporaneous advance of science and art, and the dependence of the latter upongthe former for the improvemenr of its most important processes.” Among the subjects of which it treats, may be mentioned tuel and furnaces, glass-making and pottery,
cements, metals and their manufacture, chemicals, textile fabrics, mineral and organic manures. This work has been stereotyped, and besides those which are distriputed on the plan of exchange, copies are offered for sale at the mere cost of printing, paper, and commission. Another report which is in preparation, on the forest trees of North America, giving their economical and ornamental uses and values, their history, mode of propagation, &c., &c., will supply to agriculturalists a work of great interest and importance which has long been a desideratum. Other reports have been prepared and will be ready for the press as soon as the funds can be appropriated for printing them.
The Committee need not repeat in detail all the parts of the plan of organization, but may mention that it included the exchange of the published transactions of the Institution, with those of literary and scientific societies and establishments; and provided for a museum and library, to consist of a complete collection of the transactions and proceedings of all the learned societies in the world, of the more important current periodical publications and of other works necessary to scientific investigations, thus employing the instrumentalities pointed out in the law, as means of increasing and diffusing knowledge, entirely consistent with, and necessary to, the plan of research and publication.
This plan is no longer experimental; it has been tested by experience; its success is acknowledged by all who are capable of forming a correct estimate of its results, and the Institution has every encouragement to pursue steadily its system of stimulating, assisting, and publishing research.
Whether the equal division of the income of the Institution, according to the plan of the compromise resolutions, should be observed after the completion of the building, is a question submitted to your Committee for report, and proper to be decided by the Board during the present year. The Committee think that while moderate appropriations should be annually made for the gradual increase of the library, and for other objects specified in the fitth section of the act establishing the Institution, so as to carry out in good faith the intention of Congress, it is not advisable to make the equal division of the income as proposed by the compromise resolutions.
The public generally, and even the Regents, most probably, do not know how small the funds of the Institution are in proportion to what is required of it, and the expense necessarily connected with so large a building.

<<<Page: 99>>>

The Secretary has stated in his Report that the general expenses, viz: meetings of the Regents and Committees, lighting and heating ot the building, postage, transportation, stationery, general printing, apparatus, incidentale, and general salaries, have gradually increued and will grow larger when the building shall be completed ‘and entirely occupied. Last year these expenses : amounted to $12,000. Besides this, the salaries of the assistants and pay of attendants in the library and museum are $5,740 per annum.
The salaries are as follows :
General Salaries.
That of the Secretary, (per annum,).......ceecceccesceses Balefoieeiaic este sieslaciee oI OCOUU (CHER Koide SA OOOO EISHOLEMOD COSDEIGUn CAA GRC riaiachio Oooon Sco) obndcmcoaaba COC 1,000 Book-keeper.....csccccssecccsscces ealsieieieiesi viaieciale sole sverelerete brelaieiavsejeloteieinsnte/aier= 200 Janitor... + aaVafeinsalocl= e[oisictieienccysterateve sexe «ele Gals, ole/enelastoreretehents _ SOOCO DC © BOEOTIOr . 400 NGADOT CTs « c/o oieielc cofe'e «ols 1s sicle Sal eloled fieteisleciosie # b0 wie w elas! ele telbleldielen’ Stole) be ere ise verde 250 DWV ia ECHIM AN | ss 5:0 50101014) o/ois'e die i9)e elniad eleleiciee sins bene ewe ele a (aig biaiatbi aye sel sisls worelelerels 365 5,715 Salary of assistant in charge of the library......s.cccesseseccesves $2,500 An assistant to the assistant in the NibPany.. jase" 565s. 00 occ c ences 600 INDIGUHOF ASSIStANIL,, . <2 5's o> on ss aie e telstetefe weiclsvaraumaie sire s intelotatielsvate ate 540 $3,640 Salary of assistant in charge of the MUSCUM .....0..secccescncccsccescece 2,000 Assistance ‘and, labor in MUSCUM. <2 ..:. 6 cies esos oejoce sos cicjeneis Cielee oie siaserens 100 5,740 Total of permanent salaries at the present time.......... efslejelejeiss ole .e-ojsvsotars left bite 11,455
Together, the salaries and general expenses before mentioned amount to more than half the interest of the original fand, and to nearly half of the interest on that fund, augmented by $150,000 of accumulated interest, which the regents propose to add to it so as to make the permanent fund 8665,000. The whole or the greater part of the interest on this addition to the original fund will be required during the present year for the building, and when that shall be finished, a considerable sum will be necessary to fit up and furnish the great central portion which is to be chiefly occupied by the library and museum. It may be assumed that not less $15,000 will be demanded for this purpose. But supposing the building to be completed and furnished, and the whole income at command for the operations of the Institution, and assuming that the salaries and general expenses will not increase, but remain as they were last year, at $17,740, there will be at the disposal of the Regents for all operations and purposes, including lectures, researches, publications, purchase of books for the library, binding, explorations for the benefit of the museum, apparatus, and the purchase of objects of art, a sum between $22,000 and $23,000. It will readily be perceived how inadequate this sum is to the rapid accumulation of a libtary, of collections for the museum and gallery of art, for lectures and those active operations which lead directly to the increase and diffusion of knowledge. Even this fund may be expected to be diminished by the greater expense which will attend the occupation of the entire building and the increased and constantly increasing collections.
The museum increases so rapidly by the deposit ot Government col

<<<Page: 100>>>

lections, by donations, exchanges, and the receipt of specimens from special explorations aided by. the Institution, that very small, if any, annual appropriations are required for it. But the expense of the care and exhibition of an increasing collection swells from year to year, while the Smithsonian funds are not so increased. The great object of the museum should be to furnish to men of science, eminent in their several departments, the means of advancing knowledge in these departments, by submitting specimens of new objects to their examination. If the expenditure could be bor ne, it would scarcely be desirable to increase the number of officers connected with the museum, so that the various branches of natural history might be fully represented, but considering the limited funds of the Smithsonian Institution, such an idea is not ib be entertained.
On the contrary, the collections made should, in general, at all events, be referred for examination and description to the men most eminent in the country, and the results should be published in a manner worthy of their labors, by the Institution.
A larger but still moderate appropriation for the library, varying as circumstauces may require, should be annually made. ‘It may be desirable, occasionally, to make larger investments in books, as whena library of special value and peculiar suitableness may be in the market, and within the means of the Institution. But this should be left to the discretion and sound judgment of the Regents at the time.
It is not believed to be advisable to accumulate in the Smithsonian Institution great masses of books, without reference to their peculiar character sed value. What we want, and what the act of Congress contemplates, is not a collection of every thing which learned dulness and literary folly as well as real wisdom and sound science have put into print, a vast and unwieldly repertory, in which the trash as well as the precious may be found, but a library of valuable books pertaining to all departments of human knowledge. The exchanges will gradually furnish us with much that answers to this description, and saa erate appropriations will supply, quite as rapidly as necessary, whatever besides may be requisite to constitute a valuable library of research in all departme nts of human knowledge. The library now consists of 12,005 volumes, besides 8,095 pamphlets and parts of volumes, and 1,874 maps. and 1,431 engravings.
In his report to the Secretary, of January, 1853, Professor Jewett stated that the library had nearly doubled in size during the year 1852, and that its greatest increase had been by exchanges. He said “ they may be considered as the first fruits of a system “of scientific and literary exchange, established and sustained by the Institution. They show, also, that the benefits derivable from its connexion with the system of active operations had not been over estimated.
‘A considerable portion of the money expended in publications returns in the shape of books for the library. These again are constantly increasing ihe efficiency and interest of the publications. ‘The value of the books received, by exchange, cannot be estimated by their number, or even their nominal price.
“They are works of the first importance to the scientific student,

<<<Page: 101>>>

and which it is very difficult to procure by purchase, even with large funds at command.”
Professor Baird estimated the value of the works thus received, during the year 1852, at from $4,000 to $5,000. If we estimate the future receipts from the system of exchange at half that sum annually, and ee an appropriation in money of equal amount for the purchase of books, the growth of the library will be quite as rapid as Was that of the library of Congress during the twenty-five years prior to the late fire, and its annual increase in value more than double that of the Congressional Library before the period mentioned. For several years before 1825, the ordinary appropriations of Congress for their library were not more than $2,000 per annum. Since that period they have been $5,000.
The Committee of Organization, in their report submitted in 1847, recommended such a selection of books as would ‘‘ make the Smithsonian Library chiefly a supplemental one,’’ and “ to purchase for the most part valuable works which are not to be found elsewhere in the Union.”
Of course this was not to be a universal rule, and not to exclude standard works of authority and reference. They particularly desired to see the library so supplied with important works on bibhography, so that it might become the centre of literary and bibliographical reference for the whole country. This desire has always been entertained by the Regents, and much has already been done towards this object. The collection of printed and manuscript catalogues has already been commenced with this view, and should be steadily followed up. It is believed that the appropriations suggested, together with the exchanges and occasional special appropri: atone: will, in a reasonable time, not only secure this object, but make the library the most important collection of valuable books, pertaining to all departments of knowledge, to be found in our country.
Suggestions have been made to the Committee of certain alterations in the organization of the Institution, which your Committee think not warranted by the letter and spirit of the law,-and in conflict with the seventh section, which defines the duties and powers of the Secretary. That section admits of only one interpretation. Its terms are direct and explicit, and its objects are expressly and pointedly set forth. The entire property of the Institution is placed by it in the Secretary’s hands, and he is distinctly constituted the responsible agent of the Board of Regents. He is “to make a fair and accurate record of all their proceedings,” “to take charge of the building and property of the Institution,” to discharge the dees of librarien and keeper of the museum. ‘This language clear ly shows the intention of the framers of the law to secure unity of action, to admit of no separate and independent departments, as is often the case in other Jnstitutions All the duties enumerated are devolved solely on the Secretary, and though other persons may be employed, they are merely Azs assistants, the offices being emphatically one. ‘The Secretary alone is authorized to act, and if the business of the Institution demanded no more than the mind and labor of one man might be competent to perform, there would be no occasion for the employment of any one else.

<<<Page: 102>>>

The law is declaratory and positive in charging the Secretary with the enumerated duties, and therefore invests him and him alone with the corresponding powers. But as it must have been manifest that no Secretary could be able of himself to perform personally every thing required for the discharge of his enumerated duties, provision is made for aid to him, in the clause which says that he “ may, with the consent of the board, employ assistants,” &c.
The positions of the persons so employed are determined by the word which designates them in the clause authorising their employment. ‘They are called ‘assistants.’ To whom? Not to the Regents, but to the Secretary. Their position is necessarily subordinate ; and as their duties are those of assistants to their principal, they can no more be independent of him than they can be superior to him. This construction is so manifestly proper, that it would seem to require no argument to justify it. But if anything further were wanted, it may be found in the fact that the Secretary is to employ them in and about that very business with which he is charged and for which he alone is responsible. ‘The character of this part of the section is permissive. He is not required to employ any one, but is permitted to employ persons to assist him, provided he satisfy the Board that their services are necessary as aids to him.
In another part of the same section provision is made for the payment and, if need be, the removal of the Secretary and his assistants, and in this connexion they are spoken of as officers, but by no ingenuity of construction can that word, in this connexion, be held to assign them special duties or confer any separate authority.
Thus careful has Congress been to provide an efficient system of operations which can only come from harmony of purpose and unity ‘of action.
This view of the intention of Congress, so Clearly expressed in the law, would be directly contradicted by the plan which has been suggested, of organizing the Institution definitely into several departments, placing at the head of these departments different assistants, establishing their relative positions, prescribing distinct duties for them, assigning certain shares of the income to be disbursed by them, and stating their authority, privileges, and remedies for infringement of their official rights, or of the interests entrusted to their care. All this would tend | not to secure a loyal and harmonious co-operation, to a common end, of the assistants with the Secretary, but to encourage rivalry, to invite collisicn, to engender hosulity, to destroy subordination, to distract the ‘operations of the Institution, to impair its efficiency, and to destroy its ‘usefulness.
The Committee are satisfied too, that the expenditures of the Institution would be unprofitably increased by organizing it into several departments, with authority to the head of each department to expend the ‘money appropriated to it. The tendency would be to more subdivisions of duty, to an increase of assistants, by the introduction first of temporary and then of permanent employees, until, as the collections grew larger and the persons charged with their care became more ‘humerous, the greater portion of the income would be absorbed in salaries. Thus the munificence intended to increase and difluse knowledge

<<<Page: 103>>>

among mankind, would be chiefly expended in salaries and official eoluientas
Already the Committee think it would be well io consider whether it might not be consistent with the proper working of the Institution to limit and reduce some of these expenses. ;
While the Committee desire to preserve and increase the library and museum, as already stated, they think it would be well to repeal the seventh resolution, passed by the Board of Regents on the 26th January, 1847, which has already been recited.
They recommend that, in future, the appropriations should be made without reference to any fixed rule of distribution or division between the different operations and objects of the Institution, and that the Board, while making specific appropriations, should apportion them according to their opinion of what is necessary and proper, giving to each object such sum as its intrinsic importance and a compliance in good faith with the law may seem to demand.
Thus they will be enabled to economize by postponing or limiting some operations and preferring others, by applying the funds to those objects which at the time appear most pressing, and which promise the most prompt, far-reaching, and beneficial action.
In conclusion, the Committee adopt the following remarks and recommendations, which they extract from a paper submitted to them by the Secretary, and desire that they may be considered as part of this report :
“Tf one-fourth of the whole income is devoted to the museum, additional assistants will be required for the care and management of the specimens, while the withdrawal of Prof: Baird from the publications and exchanges will require more help in that quarter.
‘¢ Besides the necessary expenditure for cases and furniture for the library, appropri: ations nay be made for carrying on the catalogue system; for printing reports on libraries ; for the public: ition of a library taal: for the preparation and publication of bibliographies ; for completing sets of transactions, and the purchase of other books for the operations of the Institution ; also for printing a catalogue or list of books in the library.
In addition to the sum which will be necessarily required for the
vases and furniture of the museum, a small sum may annually be apne nated tor collecting particular desiderata in natural history, to be presented to other institutions as well as preserved in this; for purchasing instruments and models to illustrate particular branches of knowledge , or to assist in the prosecution of special lines of research, which muy serve as samples to artizans in this country, or be used in investigations.
** Models may also be obtained for multiplying casts of the most celebrated specimens of ancient and modern art.
“ Appropriations for all these objects cannot be made in the same year, but discretion, as I have said before, should be used as to the time when it would be the most advisable to make the expenditure in each particular case.
‘«« As few operations as possible ought to be carried on in the building of the Institution. Printing, stereotyping, engraving, &c., can be

<<<Page: 104>>>

done at a cheaper rate by contract; these require expensive superintendence ; and workmen, as a general rule, cannot be expected to do as much for public eons as for a private individual. Besides this, much time must be lost in the interval of the publication of the different articles, and when it is necessary, on account of the exhaustion of the appropriation, to stop for the year, this can only be done by disbanding the workmen, while the interest on the cost of the apparatus remains.
“These remarks also appiy to calculations and reductions of observations, which, in many cases, can be distributed to professors i in colleges, who, or a small addition to their salaries, will furnish results which: could not be procured in the Institution for many times the same sum.
“The maxim stated in the programme, namely, that few individuals ought to be permanently supported by the Institution, should be constantly kept in view, and the greatest caution exercised in adding new members to the permanent corps.
“The Institution, 1 in order to produce the greatest amount of useful effect with a given expenditure of income, must be a unit in plan and a unit in purpose. Each assistant must not merely have regard to the advancement of his own speciality, but the good of the whole, and though he may be assigned a specific duty, he should be ready and willing, at the call of the Secretary, to render service in any other. Without a system of government w hich will ensure this, not only the usefulness of the Institution will be greatly abridged, but its very existence jeoparded.”
The committee submit to the Board the following resolutions :
Resolved, That the seventh resolution passed by the Board of Regents on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the income between the active operations and the museum and library, when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby, repealed.
Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be apportioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the Institution, in such manner as may, in the Judgment of the Regents, be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance, and a compliance in good faith with the law.
Respectfully submitted : JAMES A. PEARCE, Chairman.
Mr. Mason offered the following resolution which was adopted :
Resolved, ‘That the report of the Special Committee just made, be laid on the table for further consideration, and that the papers referred to in the report be communicated to the Board tor their examination ; and that said report, and such reportof a minority of the Committee as may be made in the recess of the board, be printed.
On motion of Mr. English, the Board then adjourned, to meet on Saturday, the 8th of July, at 10 o’clock a. m.
~ f ’

<<<Page: 105>>>

Wasnineton, July 8, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Saturday, July 8, at 100 ’clock, Be 1.
Present: Messrs. Bache, Douglas, English, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Stuart, Totten, Towers, and the Secretary.
In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Hawley was called to the chair.
John T. Towers, esquire, mayor elect of the city of Washington, appeared and took the seat in the Board vacated by Mr. Maury, late mayor.
The Secretary laid before the Board the sixth volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
Mr. Mason, from the Select Committee on the resolutions of Messrs. Fitch end Meacham, offered the following resolution :
“The Secretary of the Institution and of this Board is, by the seventh section of the act ‘to establish the Smithsonian Institution,’ required to discharge the duties of ‘Librarian and Keeper of the Museum,’ having, with the consent of the Board of Regents, power to employ assistants, the better to enable him to discharge those duties ; for a better construction whereof,
Be it resolved, That whilst power is reserved in the said section to the Board of Regents to remove both the Secretary and his assistants, in the opinion of the Board, power, neve rtheless, remains with the Secretary to remove his said assistants. ;
Mr. English moved to amend the resolution by inserting the words “urth the eons of the Board of Regents,” after the words “* power, nevertheless, remains with the Secretary.”
Mr. Stuart moved that the ‘consideration of Mr. Mason’s resolution be postponed till the next meeting of the Board. On this question the yeas and nays were demanded.
Those voting in the affirmative:
Yras.— Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers—4.
Nays.—Messrs. Packie, Hawiey, Mason, Pearce, Totten—85.
-So the motion was not carried.
The question was then taken on the amendment offered by Mr. English to Mr. Mason’s resolution, and the yeas and nays taken:
Yeas.—Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Tower rs—4.
Nays.—Messrs. Bache, Hlawie ey, Mason, Pearce, "Totten—5.
So the amendment was lost.
Mr. Douglas moved a postponement of the subject for a week from next Friday.
The yeas and nays were taken on this motion:
Yras.—Messrs. Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers—4.
Nays.—Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Totten—5.
So the motion was lost. ;
The question was then taken on Mr. Mason’s resolution ; which was adopted.
Yras.—Messrs. Bache, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, 'Totten—6.
Nave Sen eeis: Douglas, English, Stuart, Towers—4.
Mr. Stuart moved to postpone the consideration of the resolutions

<<<Page: 106>>>

appended to the report of the Select Committee on the resolutions of Messrs. Fitch and Meacham, till the next annual session.
A division was called for—ayes 3, noes 6.
‘So the motion was lost.
Mr Douglas moved to postpone the consideration for two weeks.
A division was called for—ayes 4, noes 6.
So the motion was lost.
Mr. English moved that the Board adjourn.
This motion was withdrawn to allow the Chairman of the Executive Committee, Mr. Pearce, to bring forward the appropriations for the year recommended by the committee, and reported to the Board, April 29, 1854.
On motion, the appropriations, as reported by the Executive Committee, were adopted—ayes 7, noes 3.
The Secretary stated to the Board that he had employed Mr. Lorin Blodget to reduce and discuss the meteorological observations collected by the Smithsonian Institution, and that some misunderstanding had arisen between this gentleman and himself as to the adjustment of his claims in reference to the work, which he proposed to refer to the Executive Committee, and if necessary to a Commission of Examination, one of whom might be appointed by the Secretary, another by Mr. Blodget, and a third by the two persons so appointed; whereupon,
On motion of Mr. Mason, it was
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to investigate and settle the business presented to the Board by the Secretary.
Mr. English then renewed his motion to adjourn.
Adopted—ayes 6, noes 4.
The Board then adjourned sine die.

<<<Page: 107>>>

Wasuineton, May 3, 1853.
A meeting of the Smithsonian Institution, called by order of the President of the United States, was held this day, May 3, 1853, in the session hall of the Smithsonian building, at 11 0 ’clock, a. m.
Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States, ex officic President of the Smithsonian Institution; James Guthrie, Secretary of the Treasury ; James C. Dobbin, Secretary of the Navy ; James Cam bell, Postmaster General ; Caleb Cushing, Attorney Gane: ral; John W. Maury, Mayor of W: shington ; ; Joseph Henry, Secreta ary of the Smithsonian Institution.
The Secretary gave an account of the operations of the Institution.
Less than half of the number of members bei ing present, the meeting adjourned to meet on ‘Tuesday, the 17th inst.
Wasuineton, May 17, 1853.
An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this day in the session hall of the Smithsonian building.
Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United 8 States; William iB ue Secretary of State; James Guthrie, Secretary of the Treasury; Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; James C. Dobbin, Secretary of ine Navy ; James Campbell, Postmaster General; Caleb Cushing, Attorney General; Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents; John W. Maury, Mayor of Washington ; Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
The President took the chair, and the minutes of the preceding meeting were read.
On motion, the President appointed a committee of five to drafi a code of By-laws. ‘The committee consisted of the following persons, to wit: Messrs Cushing, Dobbin, Maury, Davis, and the Secre tary.
The committee, after due deliberation, re ported threugh their chairman, Mr. Cushing, the following :
Secrion |. A stated annual meeting of the statute and honorary members of the Institution shall be held at the Hall of the Institution, in Washington, on the first Tuesday in May. Adjourned meetings may be held at such place and time as the members of the Institution at any meeting may order. Special meetings will be convened by direction, of the President of the United States.
Sec. 2. Notice of all meetings of the Institution, whether stated, adjourned, or special, shall be given by the Secretary in writing, addressed to each member.

<<<Page: 108>>>

Sec. 3. The votes and proceedings of the Institution, with the names of the members present at each meeting, shall be recorded ; and at the opening of every meeting the journal of the precedmg meeting shall be read by the Secretary.
Src. 4. A quorum of not less than six of the statute members shall be requisite for the transaction of any business except adjourning or obtaining the attendance of members.
Src. 5 The Secretary shall at the stated annual meeting, make a general statement of the condition and affairs of the Institution during the past year.
Sec. 6. Honorary members, not exceeding one in each year, shall be elected by ballot, and by unanimous vote oe the statute members : Provided, ‘That no person shall be chosen without having been nomin ated at a previous meeting of the Institution.
Src. 7. The rules of parliamentary proceedings, as received and
ractised in the Senate of the United States, shall govern the meetings of the Institution in all cases which are not i er with the fore going By-laws
On motion, he report of the committee was adopted.
The Secretary presented an account of the organization and operations of the Institution, relative to the reception and publication of memoirs, researches, exchanges, the formation of catalogues of libraries ; also an account of the state of the funds, and the policy with regard to the formation of collections, &c.
On motion of Mr. Davis, nominations were then received for the appointment of an honorary member of the Institution, to take place at a succeeding meeting.
On motion, the Institution adjourned to the first Monday ir June ensuing, at 11 o’clock, a. m.
W asHineton, June 6, 1853.
An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this day, June 6, 1853, in the session hall of the Smithsonian building.
Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States, e2-officio President of the Smithsonian Institution; James Guthrie, Secretary of the Treasury; William L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; James Campbell, Postmaster Generale Caleb Cushing, Attorney General; Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents ; Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
The President took the chair, and the minutes of the preceding meeting were read.
‘On motion, the Institution proceeded to ballot tor the election of an honorary member. '
Professor Parker Cleaveland was declared unanimously elected.
The advertisement of the Leopoldin Caroline Academy of Germany, relative to the Smithsonian Institution, was read by the Secretary.
The Institution then adjourned sine die.

<<<Page: 109>>>

The stated annual meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this day, May 2, 1854, at the hall of the Institution at 12 o’clock, m
Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States; Hon. Wm. L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Hon. James Guthrie, Secretary of the Treasury ; Hon. Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; Hon. James C. Dobbin, Secretary of tlie Navy; Hon. Caleb Cushing, Attorney General; Hon. John W. Maury, Mayor of the city; Professor Robert Hare, honorary member; Professor Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Institution.
The President took the chair.
The minutes of the last annual meeting were read and approved.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Guthrie, the Institution proceeded to nominate candidates for election as honorary members.
Dr. Hare made some remarks respecting his apparatus, and the conditions en which it was presented to the Institution.
The Secretary explained the cause of the delay in completing the repairs, and in the proposed exhibition of the apparatus. This had been mainly due to an accident which happened to the building. A part of the interior gave way, and the Regents directed that the whole wood-work of the main building should be removed, and its place supplied with fire-proof materials. "lo meet the additional expense of this necessary change in the plan, the time of completing the edifice was extended, and funds which would have been devoted to other purposes were consequently given to this object. The building will, however, be completed in the course of the present year; a spacious room is now nearly ready to receive the apparatus, and due diligence on the part of the Institution will be made to finish the repairs of the articles, of which a considerable portion are now completed.
On motion the Institution then adjourned to the first Tuesday in June next (6th proximo.)
WasHineton, June 6, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this day, June 6, 1854, in the hall of the Institution, at 12 o’clock, m.
Present: Hon. Wm. L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Hon. James Guthrie, Secretary of the Treasury; Hon. Caleb Cushing, Attorney General; Hon. Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents; Prof. Joseph Henry, Secret tary of the Institution.
There not being a legal quorum present, on motion of Mr. Cushing the Institution adjourned to meet on Saturday, July 15, 1854, at 12 o’clock, m.
Wasuineton, July 15, 1854.
An adjourned meeting of the Smithsonian Institution was held this day, July 15, 1854, in fhe hall of the Institution, at 12 o’clock, m.
Present: Franklin Pierce, President of the United States; ; Hon: Wm. L. Marcy, Secretary of State; Hon. James Guthrie, Secretary. of

<<<Page: 110>>>

the Treasury; Hon. Jefferson Davis, Secretary of War; Hon. James C. Dobbin, Secretary of the Navy; Hon. James Campbell, Postmaster General; Hon. Caleb Cushing, Attorney General; Hon. Charles Mason, Commissioner of Patents.
The President took the chair. The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
The nominations previously made for honorary members were then read, and the Institution proceeded to ballot, but no choice was made.
On the second ballot no choice was made.
On motion, the election of an honorary member was postponed.
Ordered, That three persons be appointed a Committee of the Institution to confer with the Board of Regents as to suitable means of communication between the two bodies, and to report thereon at a subsequent meeting of the Institution.
The Secretary gave a general account of the affairs of the Institution; the. condition of the building; the operations carried on during the past year; and a statement of the finances at the present time.
The President appointed Messrs. Cushing, Davis, and Mason as the committee of conference with the Board of Regents.
On motion of Mr. Campbell, the Institution adjourned to meet on the third Saturday (21st) of October next.

<<<Page: 111>>>

Diao
. A AA MiG ER .
cos zu WIRES) ? i ; ' ; ioe ‘
so yh ak ae had
1/2) alan i ,
| Rake ' Wooter TE Z iT 4s , . 3 eo: ‘ iy Fi v “ , ’* j, 4 ‘ a i , he lp f * oe we tI = .

<<<Page: 112>>>

moe We De Ks:

<<<Page: 113>>>

Tt AY
ee ee oe an nee ~
es a ‘ / 4 ¢ Pas
ra ea
* a on ~*~ ; a i . ‘t \ -? Cm ee 4 ae 3 ° 4 iy) 5 gh ets ieee |

<<<Page: 114>>>

I, James Smithson, son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and Blisabath; heiress of the Hungertor ds of Audley, and niece of Charles the Proud, Duke of mencees now residing in Bentinck street, Cavendish square, do this 23d day of October, 1826, make this my last will and testament :
I bequeath the whole of my property of every nature and kind soever to my bankers, Messrs. Drummonds, of Charing Cross, in trust, to be disposed of in the following manner, and desire of my said executors to put my property under the management of the court of chancery.
To John Fitall, formerly my ser vant, but now employed in the London Docks, and residing at No. 27, Jubilee Place, North Mile End, Old Town, in connideration of his attachment and fidelity to me, and the long and great care he has taken of my effects, and my having done but. very little for him, I give and bequeath the annuity or annual sum of £100 sterling for his life, to be paid to him quarterly, free from legacy duty and all other deductions, the first payment to be made to him at the expiration of three months after my death. I have at divers. times lent sums of money to Henry Honori Juilly, formerly my servant, but now keeping the Hungerford Hotel, in the Rue Caumartin, at Paris, and for which sums of money | have undated bills or bonds signed by him. Now I will and direct that, if he desires it, these sums of money be let remain in his hands at an interest of five per cent. for five years after the date of the present will.
To Henry James Hungerford, my nephew, heretofore called Henry James Dickinson, son of my late brother, Lieutenant Colonel Henry Louis Dickinson, now residing with Mr. Auboin, at Bourg la Reine, near Paris, I give and bequeath for his life the whole of the income arising from my property, of every nature and kind whatever, after the payment of the above annuity, and, after the death of John Fitall, that annuity likewise, the payments to be at the time the interest or dividends become due on the stocks or other property from which the income arises.
Should the said Henry James Hungerford have a child or children, legitimate or illegitimate, I leave to such child or children, his or their hel Irs, executors, are assigns, after the death of his, her, or their father, the whole of my property of every Kind, absolutely and forever, to be divided between them, if there is more than one, in the manner their father shall judge proper, and in case of his omitting to decide this, as the Lord Chancellor shall judge proper.
Should my nephew, Henry James Hungerford marry, 1 empower him to make a joimture.
In case of the death of my said nephew, without leaving a child or children, or of the death of the child or children he may have had, under the age of 21 years, or intestate, I then bequeath the whole of my property, subject to the annuity of £100 to John Fitall, and tor the security and payment of which
Extract from a letter from Hon. Richard Rusu to Hon. John Forsyth, Secretary of State.
Lonpon, May 12, 1838.
% * * * * * * *&
‘“‘T have made inquiries, from time to time, in the hope of finding out something of the man, personally a stranger to our people, Ginos has sought to benefit distant ages by founding, inthe capital of the American Union, an institution (to describe it in his own simple and comprehensive language) for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. Ihave not heard a great deal. What Ihave heard, and may confide in, amounts to this: That he was, in fact, the natural son of the Duke of Northumberland ; that his mother was a Mrs. Macie, of an ancient family in Wiltshire, ofehe name of Hungerfor d; that he was educated at Oxford, where he took an honorary degree in 1786 ; that he went under the name of James Lewis Macie util after a few years after he had left the university, when he took that of Smithson, ever after signing only James Smithson, as in his will; that he does not appear to have had any fixed home, living in lodgings when in London, and occasionally staying a year or two at a time in cities on the continent, as Paris, Berlin, Florence, Genoa, at which last he died; and, that the ample provision made for him by the Duke of Nonthamibenlend: with retired and simple habits, enabled him to accumulate the fortune which now passes to the United States. I have inquired if his political opinions or bias were supposed to be of a nature that led him to select the United States as the great trustee of his enlarged and philanthropic views. ‘The reply has been, that his opinions, as far as known or inferred, were thought to favor monarchical rather than popular institutions; but that he interested himself little in questions of government, being devoted to science, and chiefly chemistry ; that this had introduced him to the society of Cav endish, Wollaston, and others advantageously known to the Royal Society in London, of which a he was amember, and to the archives of which he made contributions ; and that he also became acquainted, through his visits to the panineut; with eminent chemists in France, Italy, and Germany. Finally, that he was a gentleman of feeble health, but always of courteous though reserved manners and conversation.
‘¢Such I learn to have been some of the characteristics of the man whom generations to come may see cause to bless, and whose will may enrol his name with the benefactors of mankind.”

<<<Page: 115>>>

November 30th, 1829. Davies Gilbert, esq., President of the Royal
Society, in his address to the society, mentions the death of Mr. Smithson as having occurred during the preceding year, or since the last annual meeting of the society, and remarks as follows: “Mr Smithson has added eight (8) communications to our transactions. He was distinguished by the intimate friendship of Mr. Cavendish, and rivalled our most expert chemists in elegant analyses ; but the latter part of his life has been passed abroad.’’—(See Philosophical Magazine, 2d series, vol. 7, p. 42.)
And again, in his address to The Royal Society, November 30th, 1830, Mr. Gilbert, in speaking of Mr Smithson, says :
“Of this gentleman | must be allowed to speak with affection. We were at Oxford together, of the same college, and our acquaintance continued to the time of his decease. Mr. Smithson, then called Macie, and an under graduate, had the reputation of excelling all other resident members of the university in the knowledge of chemistry. He was early honored by anintimate acquaintance with Mr. Cavendish ; he was admitted into the Royal Society, and soon after presented a paper on the very curious concretion frequently found in the hollow of bambu canes, named Tubasheer. This he found to consist almost entirely of silex, existing in a manner similar to what Davy long afterwards discoved in the epidermis of reeds and grasses. Mr. Smithson enriched ‘our transactions with seven other communications; a chemical analysis of some calamines; account of a discovery of native minium; on the composition and crystalization of certain sulphurets from Huel Boys, in Cornwall; on the composition of zeolite ; on a substance procured from the elm tree called ulmine ; on a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius : facts relative to the coloring matter of vegetables.
‘¢He was the friend of Dr. Wollaston, and at the same time his rival in the manipulation and analysis of small quantities. Mr. Smithson frequently repeated an occurrence with much pleasure and exultation as excecding anything that could be brought into competition with it, and this must apologise for my introducing what might otherwise be deemed an anecdote too light and trifling on such an occasion as the present.
‘Mr. Smithson declared, that happening to observe a tear gliding down a lady’s cheek, he endeavored to caich it on a crystal vessel, that one-half of the drop escaped, but having preserved the other half, he submitted it to re-agents, and detected what was then called microcosmic salt, with muriate of soda, and, I think, three or four more saline substances, held in solution.
“For many years past Mr. Smithson has resided abroad, principally, | belteve, on account of his health ; but he carried with him the esteem and regard of various private friends, and of a still larger number of persons who appreciated and admired his acquirements.”—(See Philosophical Magazine, 2d series, vol. ix, p41.)

<<<Page: 116>>>

1. “ An Account of some Chemical Experiments on Tabasheer.” Read July 7, 1791. By James Louis Macie, esq., F. R. S.—Philosophical ‘Transactions, vol. 81, p. 368.
2. “ A Chemical Analysis of some Calamines.” Read November 18, 1802.—Philosophical Transactions, vol. 93, p. 12, and P. Magazine, vol. 14, p. 173.
do. “An Account of a Discovery of Native Minium.’ Read April 24, 1806.—Philosophical ‘Transactions, vol. 96, p. 267, and P. Magazine, vol. 24, p. 274, and vol. 26, p. 114.
4. “On Quadruple and Binary Compounds, particularly Sulphurets.” Read December 24, 1807, but not published in the P. Transactions. — Philosophical Magazine, vol. 29, p. 275.
5. On the Composition of the Compound Sulphuret from Huel Boys, and an account of its crystals.” Read January 28, 1803.— Philosophical Transactions, vol. 98, p. 55, and P. Magazine, vol. 29, p: 220.
6. “On the Composition of Zeolite.” Read February 7, 1811.— Philosophical Transactions, vol. 101, p. 171, and P. Magazine, vol. 37, p152, and vol. 38, p. 30.
7. “On a substance from the Elm tree, called Ulmin.” Read December 10, 1812.—Philosophical Transactions, vol. 103, p. 64, and P. Magazine, vol. 42, p. 204.
8. “On a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius.” Read July 8, 1813.—Philosophical Transactions, vol. 103, p. 256, and P. Magazine, vol. 42, p. 425. |
9. « A Few Facts Relative to the Coloring Matter of some Vegetables. Read December 18, 1817.—Philosophical Transactions, vol. 108, p. 110, and P. Magazine, vol. 57, p. 58.
1. “On a Native Compound of Sulphuret of Lead and Arsenic.” Paris, May 19, 1819, vol. 14, p. 96, 1819; and see vol. 16, p. 100.
2. On Native Hydrous Aluminate of Lead, or Plomb Gomme.— Paris, May 28, 1819, vol 14, p. 31, 1819; and see vol. 16, p. 100.
3. “Ona Fibrous Metallic Copper.” Paris, March ‘17, 1820, vol. 16, p. 46, 1820.
4. “An Account of a Native Combination of Sulphate of Barium and Fluoride of Calcium.” Paris, March 24, 18203 vol. 16, p. 48, 1820; and see vol 16, p. 100, for notices of | and 2, above.
5. “On some Capillary Metallic Tin forced through the pores of Cast Iron.’”’? Paris, February 17, 1821, vol. 17; new series, vol 1, p271, 1821.
6. “On the Detection of Very Minute Quantities of Arsenic and Mercury.” Letter from Mr. Smithson, (not dated,) vol. 20; new series,
vol. 4, p. 127, 1822.

<<<Page: 117>>>

7. On Some Improvements of Lamps.” Vol. 20, p. 863; new series, vol. 4, p. 127,° 1822; and see Ann. de Chemie., vol. xh, p. 92, and Journal of Science and Art, vol. 28, p. 183.
8. “On the Crystaline form of ice.” March 4, 1823.—Vol 21; new series, vol. 5, p. 340, 1823.
9, «A Means of discriminating between Sulphate of Barium and Strontium.” April 2, 1823.—Vol. 21; new series, vol. 5, p. 399, 1823.
10. ‘On the Discovery of Acids in Mineral Substances.” April 12, 1823.—Vol. 21; new series, vol. 5, p. 384, 1823.
11. “ An Improved way of Making Coffee.” June 4th, 1823.—Vol. 22; new series, vol. 6, p. 30, 1823.
12. “A Discovery of Chloride of Potassium in the Earth.” (Not dated.) Vol. 22; new series, vol. 6, p. 258, 1823.
13. «A Method of Fixing Particles on the Sappare.” October 24, 1823.—Vol. 22; new series, vol. 6, p. 412, 1823.
14. “On Some Compounds of Fluorine.” January 2, 1824.—Vol. 23; new series, vol. 7, p. 100, 1824.
15. “ An Examination of some Egyptian Colors.” January 2, 1824. Vol. 23; new series, vol. 7, p. 115, 1824.
16. Some Observations on Mr. Penn’s theory concerning the formation of the Kirkdale Cave.” June 10, 1824.—Vol. 24; new series, vol. 8, p. 50, 1824.
17. «*A Note on a Letter from Dr. Black, describing a Very Sensible Balance.”’—Vol. 26; new series, vol 10, p. 52, 1825.
18. “*A Method of Fixing Crayon Colors.” London, August 23, 1825.—Vol. 26; new series, vol. 10, p. 236, 1825.
AN ACT to authorize and enable the President to assert and prosecute, with effect, the elaim of the United States to the legacy bequeathed to them by James Smithson, late of London, deceased, to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men.
Sec. 1. Be tt enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to constitute and appoint an agent or agents, to assert and prosecute for and in behalf of the United States, and in their name or otherwise, as may be advisable, in the Court of Chancery, or other proper tribunal of England, the right of the United States to the legacy bequeathed to them by the last will and testament of James: Smithson, late of London, deceased, for the purpose of founding at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men; and to empower such agent or agents so appointed to receive and grant acquittances for all such sum or sums of money, or other funds, as may or shall be decreed or adjudged to the United States, for, or on account of said legacy.
_ Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the said agent or agents shall, before receiving any part of said legacy, give a bond or bonds, in the

<<<Page: 118>>>

penal sum of five hundred thousand dollars, to the Treasurer of the United States and his successors in office, with good and sufficient securities to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury, for the faithful performance of the duties of the said agency, and for the faithful remittance to the Treasurer of the United States of all and every sum or sums of money or other funds which he or they may receive for payment in whole or in part of the said legacy. And the Treasurer of the United States is hereby authorized and required to keep safely all sums of money or other funds which may be received by him in virtue of the said bequest, and to account therefor separately from all other accounts of his office, and subject to such further disposal thereof as may be hereafter provided by Congress.
Src. 3. And be it further enacted, That any and all sums of money and other funds which shall be received for or on account of the said legacy shall be applied, in such manner as Congress may hereafter direct, to the purpose of founding and endowing at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men, to which application of the said moneys and other funds the faith of the United States is hereby pledged.
Src. 4. And be it further enacted, That, to the end that the claim to the said bequest may be prosecuted with effect, and the necessary expenses in prosecuting the same be defrayed, the President of the United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to apply to that purpose any sum not exceeding ten thousand dollars out of any moneys in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Approved July 1, 1836.
AN ACT to establish the *‘ Smithsonian Institution,’’ for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men.
James Smithson, Esquire, of London, in the kingdom of Great Britain, having by his last will and testament given the whole of his property to the United States of America, to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an Establishment for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men; and the United States having, by an act of Congress, received said property, and accepted said trust; therefore, for the faithful execution of said trust according to the will of the liberal and enlightened donor—
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President and VicePresident of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Postmaster General, the Attorney General, the Chief Justice, and the Commissioner of the Patent Office of the United States, and the Mayor of the City of Washington, during the time for which they shall hold their respective offices, and such other persons as they may elect honorary members, be, and they are hereby, constituted an ‘‘ Establishment,” by the name of the “Smithsonian Institution,” for the Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge among Men; and by that name shall be

<<<Page: 119>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ps
known, and have perpetual succession, with the powers, limitations, and resinlehoes hereinafter contained, and no other.
Suc. 2. And be it further enacted, That so much of the property of the said James Smithson as has been received in money, and paid into the Treasury of the United States, being the sum of five hundred and fifteen thousand one hundred aud sixty-nine dollars, be lent to the United States Treasury, at six per cent. per annum interest from the first day of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, when the same was received into the said treasury; and that so much of the interest as may have accrued on said sum on the first day of July next, which will amount to the sum of two hundred and forty-two thousand one hundred and twenty-nine dollars, or so much thereof as shall, by the Board of Regents of the Institution, established by this act, be deemed necessary, be, and the same is hereby, appr opriated for the erection of suitable buildings, and for other current incidental expenses of said Institution; and th: at six per cent. interest on the said trust fund—it being the said amount of five hundred and fifteen thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars received into the United States Treasury on the first of September, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, payable, in halfyearly payments, on the first of January and July 1 in ene year be, and the same is hereby, appro-~ priated for the perpetual maintenance and support of said Institution $ and all expenditures and appropriations to be made, from time to time, to the purposes of the Institution aforesaid, shall be exclusively from the accruing interest, and not from the principal of the said fund. And be at further enacted, Chat al] the moneys and stocks which have been, or may hereatter be, received into the Treasury of the United States on account of the fund bequeathed by James Smithson, be, and the same hereby are, pledged to refund to the Treasury of the United States the sums hereby appropriated.
Sec. 3. And be at further enacted, That the business of the said Institution shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents by the name of the Regents of the “ Smithsonian Institution,” to be composed of the Vice-President of the United States, the Chief Justice of the United States, and the Mayor of the city of Washington, during the time for which they shall hold their respective offices ; three members of the Senate, and three members of the House of Repre sentatives; together with six other persons, other than members of Congress, two of vaHOnE shall be members of the National Institute in the city of Washington, and resident in the said city ; and the other four thereof shall be inhabitants of States, and no two of them of the same State. And the eer to be selected as aforesaid, sball be appointed immediately after the passage of this act—the members of the Senate by the President thereot, the members of the House by the Speaker thereof, and the six other persons by joint resolution of the Senate and House of Representatives ; and the members of the House so appointed shall serve until the fourth Wednesday in December, the second next after the passage of this act; and then, and biennially thereafter, on or alternate fourth Wednesday of December, a like number shall be a pointed in the same manner, to serve until the fourth Wednesday in December, the second succeeding their appointment. And the sena-

<<<Page: 120>>>

tors so appointed shall serve during the term for which they shall hold, without re-election, their office as senators. And vacancies, occasioned by death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled as vacancies in committees are filled and the other six members aforesaid shall serve, two for two years, two for four years, and two for six years; the terms of service, In he first place, to be determined by lot; but after the first term, then their regular term of service shall be six years; and new elections thereof shall be made by joint resolution of Congress ; and vacancies occasioned by death, resignation, or otherwise, may be filled in like manner, by joint resolution of Congress. And the said Regents shall meet in the city of Washington on fae first Monday of September next after the passage of this act, and organize by the election of one of their number as Chancellor, who sh all ie the presiding officer of said Board of Regents, by the name of the Chancellor of the ** Smithsonian Institution,” and a suitable person as Secretary of said Institution, who shall also be the Secretary of said Board of Re ‘gents ; said Board shall also elect three of their own body as an Exccuine Gone and said Regents shall then fix on the time for the regular meetings of said Board; and on application of any three of the Regents to the Secretary of the Sail Institution, it shall be his duty to appoint a special meeting of the Board of Regents, of which he shi all give notice by letter to aaek of the members; and at any meeting of said Board, five shall constitute a quorum to do business. And cach member of said Board shall be paid his necessary travelling and other actual expenses in attending meetings of the Board, which shall be audited by the Executive Com: mittee, and recorded by the Secretary of said Board ; but his services as Regent shall be gratuitous. And whenever money is required for the payment of the debts or performance of the contracts of the Institution, incurred or entered into in conformity with the provisions of this act, or for making the purchases and executing the objects authorized he this act, the Board of Regents, or the Executive Committee thereof, may certify to the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board that such sum of money is required ; whereupon, they shall examine the same, and, if they s shall approve thereof, shall certify the same to the proper officer of the treasury for payment. And the said Board shall submit to Congress, at each session thereof, a report of f the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution.
Src. 4. And be it further enacted, That after the Board of Regents shall have met, and become organized, it shall be their duty foalaih to proceed to select a suitable site for such building as may be necessary for the Institution; which ground may be taken and appropriated out of that part of the public ; eround 1 in the city of Washington, lying between the Patent Office and Seventh street: Provided, The Prectieat of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Commissioner of the Patent Office, shall consent to the same; but if the persons last named shall not consent, then such location may be made upon any other of the public grounds within the city of Washington, belonging to the United States, which said Regents may select, by and with the consent of the persons herein named; and the said ground so selected shall be set out by proper metes and bounds, and a descrip

<<<Page: 121>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ts
tion of the same shall be made and recorded in a book to be provided for that purpose, and signed by the said Regents, or so many of them as may be convened at rate time of their end organization; and such record, or a copy thereof, certified by the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board of Regents, shall be received in evidence in all courts of: the extent and boundaries of the lands appropriated to the said Institution ; and upon the making of such record, such site and lands shall be deemed aud taken to be appropriated by force of this act to the said Institution.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That, so soon as the Board of Regents shall have selected the said site, they shall cause to be erected a suitable building, of plain and durable materials and structure, without unnecessary ornament, and of sufhicient size, and with suitable rooms, or halls, for the reception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of objects of natural history, including a geological and mineralogical cabinet; also a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of art, and the necessary lecture rooms; and the said Board shall have authority, by themselves, or by a committee of three of their members, to contract for the completion of such building, upon such plan as may be directed by the Board of Regents, and shall take sufficient security for the building and finishing the same according to the said plan, and iu the time stipulated i in such contract ; and may so locate said building, if they shall deem it proper, as in appearance to form a wing to the Patent Oiffice building, and may so connect the same with the present hall of said Patent Office building, containing the National Cabinet of Curi-
_osities, as to constitute the ‘said hall in whole, or in part, the deposit for
the cabinet of said Institution, if they deem it expedient to do so ; provided said building shall be located upon said Patent Office lot, in the manner aforesaid: ” Provided, however, That the whole expense of building and enclosures aforesaid shall not exceed the amount of ; which sum is hereby appropriated, payable out of money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated ; together with such sum or sums out of the annual interest accruing to thie Institution, as may, in any year, remain unexpended, after paying the current expenses of the Institution. And duplicates of all such contracts as may be made by the said Board of Regents shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States; and all claims on any contract made as aforesaid, shall be allowed and certified by the Board of Regents, or the Executive Committee thereof, as the case may be, and, being s sioned by the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board, shall be a sufficient voucher for settlement and payment at the Treasury of the United States. And the Board of Regents shall be authorized to employ such persons as they may deem necessary to superintend the erection of the building and fitting up the rooms of the Institution. And all laws for the protection of public property in the city of Washington, shall apply to, and be in force for, the protection of the lands, buildings, and other property of said Institution. And all moneys recovered by, or accruing to, the Institution, shall be paid into the Treasury of the United See to the credit of the Smithsonian bequest, and separately accounted for, as provided in the act approved July first, eighteen hundred and thirty-six, accepting said bequest.
Sec. 6. And be ut further enacted, That, in proportion as suitable arrangements can be made for their reception, all objects of art and o

<<<Page: 122>>>

foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants, and seological and mineralogical specimens belonging, or hereafter to: belong, to the United States, ch may be in the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them, and shall be arranged in such order, and so classed, as best to facilitate the examination and study of them, in the building so as aforesaid to be erected for the Institution ; and the Regents of said Institution shall afterwards, as new specimens in natural history, geology, or mineralogy,
may be obtained for the museum of the lustitution, by exchanges of
duplicate specimens belonging to the Institution, (which they are ‘hereby authorized to make,) or by donation, which they may receive, or otherwise, cause such new specimens to be also appropriately classed and arranged. And the minerals, books, manuscripts, and other property of James Smithson, which have been received by the Government of the United States, and are now placed inthe Department of State,. shall be removed to said Institution, and shall be preserved separate and apart from other property of the Institution.
Src. 7. And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of the Board of Regents shall take charge of the building and property of said Institution, and shall, under their direction, ie ie a fair and accurate record of all their proceedings, to be preserved in said Institution ; and the said Secretary shall also discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of the museum, and may, with the consent of the Board of Regents, employ assistants; and the said officers shall receive for their services such sums as may be allowed by the Board of Regents, to be paid semi-annually on “the first days of January and July ; and the said ofhcers shall be removable by the Board of Regents, whenever, in their judgment, the interests of the Institution require any of the suid officers: to be changed.
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That the members and anes, members of said Institution may hold such stated and special meeting for the superv ision of the affairs of said Institution and the advice a instruction of said Board of Regents, to be called in the manner provided for in the By-laws of said Institution, at which the President, and, in his absence, the V ice-President, of the United States shall preside. And the said Regents shall make, from the interest of said fund, an appropriation, not exceeding an average of twenty-five thousand dollars annually, for the gradual formation of a library composed of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowled ige.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That of any other moneys which have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as interest upon the said Smithsonian fund, not herein appropriated, or not required for the purposes herein provided, the said managers are hereby authorized to
make such disposal as they shall deem best suited for the promotion of
the purpose of the testator, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding.
Sze. 10. And be it further enacted, That the author or proprietor of any book, map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, for which a copyright shall be secured under the existing acts of Congress, or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copy

<<<Page: 123>>>

rights, shall, within three months from the publication of said book, map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, deliver, or cause to be delivered, one copy of the same to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, and one copy to the Librarian of Congress Library, for the use of the said libraries.
Src. 11. And be it further enacted, That there is reserved to Coneress the right of altering, amending, adding to, or repealing any of the provisions of this act: Provided, That no contract, or individual right, made or acquired under such provisions, shall be thereby divested or impaired.
Approved August 10, 1846.
Construction of the “act establishing the SmrrHsontaNn InstiTuTION,” by Hon. J. Mc Person Berrien, one of the Regents.
It will be argued at the outset, that the fund ought to be so admin istered as to give the fullest effect to the purposes of the donor; that the government of the United States, as the depositary of his confidence, has power to determine the mode of administration, and that its deter mination, so far as it extends, must guide and control the action of the Board of Regents. Beyond that limit, I suppose it will also be conceded that the Board has discretionary powers, acting as it does, under the constant supervision of Congress, which body has reserved to itself the right of modifying its grant of power, ad libitum, with the ordinary saving of individual rights.
We are then to look to the act of Congress to ascertain what Congress has directed, and what it has left at large. The act of 1846 creates what it denominates “an establishment’? with a corporate name, invested with the powers, and subjected to the limitations and restrictions specified inthe act. It directs the selection of a lot, and the erection of a building, with suitable arrangements for the classification and arrangement of the several objects specified in the 6th section. It places that building and those objects under the control of the Board of Regents. It requires them to make, from the interest of the fund, an appropriation not exceeding $25,000 annually, for the gradual formation of a library. Out of any other interest, moneys accrued or accruing, not therein appropriated, or not required for the purposes therein provided, the Board is authorized “to make such disposal as they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the purpose of the testator, anything therein contamed to the contrary notwithstanding.”
In my opinion, this places the whole income of the fund under the control of the Board of Regents. ‘They must erect a building, suitably arranged to fulfil the purposes of Congress, but its cost is not limited. They must appoint a Secretary, but his salary is not specified. They must make an appropriation for the gradual formation of a library, of which the maximum only is provided, and then of all other moneys, accruing as interest, they may make such disposal as they shall deem best suited to promote the purposes of the donor; any former provision to the contrary notwithstanding.

<<<Page: 124>>>

Whether in the exercise of this discretionary power, the Board ought to look mainly to the gradual formation of a hbrary, to the exclusion of other objects which they may deem better calculated to promote the purpose of Mr, Smithson, is a question which may be considered in a two-fold view.
We may inquire, 1. Whether there is anything in the act of Congress which requires this preference? I confine the inquiry to the act itself, and exclude the expressed opuuons of individuals who: participated in its enactment, as well as the votes of the two Houses upon particular proposutions submitted while it was under discussion; the first, because it is the act, which alone expresses the will of the legislature, in the enactment of which different individuals may have ‘concurred for very dif ferent reasons; the second, because a rejected proposition may have been voted down, not because it was deemed unwise or improper, but because it was considered unnecessary and superfluous; at all events, of those who reject it some may have been influenced by the former, and others by the latter consideration. The proceedings on this bill will help to illustrate this. The bill reported by the committee contained various specific provisions, as for a library, scientific collections, publications, &c., &c., &c. These were stricken out. Why? Because they were deemed inexpedient or improper? No; but because, since the act specified no amount which the Board was required to expend for a library, and left all the other accruing income, besides that which they determined to apply to this object, subject to their entire control, it would have. been simply superfluous, as they were provided for by this general grant of power. I see nothing, therefore, in the act of Congress which requires the Board to give this preference to a library, to the exclusion of any other objects which they may deem more consonant to the purposes of the donor.
The remaining question is, 2. Have they erred in the exercise of the discretion confided to them? I think not. The purpose of the testator was two-fold.
The increase of knowledge among men.
Its diffusion among men.
It was not to enable the few persons who could have access to a library at Washington to master the knowledge already existing among men, but to merease the swm of that knowledge, and to give i a world wide diffusion. The first object might be attained by a library at Washington sufficiently comprehensive to embrace what is now known among men. ‘The last can only be accomplished by the labors of scientific men, and their diffusion by the Board throughout the cwilized world. But this subject is so well and thoroughly ‘discussed by the committee, that I leave it with the simple expression of my entire concurrence in the reasoning and conclusion of their report. One other remark. Looking to the limited amount of the income, and to the expenditures, which Congress must have foreseen, I find it impossible to suppose that they could have contemplated any considerable expenditure for the library, since in thus providing for the acquirement by a limited portion of our own people of such knowledge as men have hitherto attained, they would have precluded all efforts for is increase and deffa

<<<Page: 125>>>

sion throughout the world, and have thus defeated what seems to me to have heen the most cherished wish of Mr. Smithson.
The only official agents provided by the acts of Congress are those
ecified in the third section, namely, the Board of Regents, the Chancellor, and the Executive Committee. By these it requires ‘ the business of the said Institution to be conducted.” Proceeding to define the duties of the Secretary, it constitutes him “librarian and keeper of the museum,”’ charges him with the care of ‘‘the building and property of the Institution,” and requires him, under the direction of the Board of Regents, “to make a fair and accurate statement of all their
proceedings.” Having thus traversed the whole circle of official duties,
and aware that those assigned to the Secretary might become too onerous for a single individual, it authorized Aim, with the assent of the Board of Regents, to ‘‘employ assistants ;’’ but such persons were, strictly speaking, not officers of the Institution, but, in the language of the act, employés of the secretary, or as the act expresses it, his ‘* assist— ants,” and jn this sense only can the term “ officers,’’ used in the 7th section, when speaking of their liability to removal by the Board of Regents, be understood. The subordinate officers of the customs furnish a somewhat analogous case. ‘They are appointed by the collector with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury. Now, the Secretary, as the official organ of the ‘President, can remove both the collector and his subor dnatcs: but this does not prevent the collector from removing them.
From what I have written, my opinion will be understood to be that the “assistants” of the Secretary are liable to removal by that officer and that such removal would be effective unless the Board, in the exercise of its controlling power over the Secretary, should think proper to interfere.
JOHN McPHERSON BERRIEN
Savannah, July, 1854. :

<<<Page: 126>>>

Extract from an Address by the Secretary, on the Smithsonran Institution.
I propose answering in this lecture the following questions :
1. Who was James Smithson? and what was his character and pursuits ?
2. What was his bequest ? and what were its objects 7
3. What plan has been adopted for carrying out the intentiou of the testator? and what fruit has this plan produced ?
(1.) Smithson claimed to be of noble descent; and in his will declares himself the son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and of Elizabeth, niece of Charles the Proud, Duke of Somerset. He was educated at Oxford, and paid particular attention to the study of the physical sciences ; was reputed to be the best chemist in the university, and was one of the first to adopt the method of minute analysis. As an exam-
le of his expertness in this line, it is mentioned that on one occasion le caught a tear as it was trickling down the face of a lady, lost half, examined the remainder, and discovered in it several salts. He made about thirty scientific communications to different societies, principally on chemistry, mineralogy, and geology. His scientific reputation was founded on these branches, though, trom his writings, he appears to have studied and reflected upon almost every department of knowledge. He was of a sensitive, retiring disposition—passed most of his lite on the Continent—was never marricd—appeared ambitious of making aname for himself, either by his own researches or by founding an institution for the promotion of science. He declares in writing, that though the best blood of England flows in his veins, this avails him not, for his name would live in the memory of men when the titles of the Northumberlands and the Percies are extinct or forgotten. He was cosmopolitan in his views, and declares that the man of science is of no country—the world is his country, and all men his countrymen. He purposed at one time to leave his money to the Royal Society of London for the promotion of science, but on account of a misunderstanding with the council of the society, he changed his mind and left it to his nephew ; and, in case of the death of this relative, to the United States of America, to found the Institution which now bears his name.
(2.) In answer to the second question, I would state that the whole amount of money received fromthe bequest was $515,169; and besides this $25,000 was left in England, as the principal of an annuity given to the mother of the nephew of Smithson. This sum will also come to the Institution at the death of this person.
The government of the United States accepted the bequest, or, in other words, accepted the office of trustee, and Mr. Rush, of Pennsylvania, a gentleman who is still an active and efficient member of the Board of Regents, and one of the most ardent supporters of the Institution, was charged with the duty of prosecuting the claim. He remained in attendance on the English courts until the money was awarded to him. He brought it over in sovereigns—deposited it in the Mint of the United States, where it was re-coined into American eagles—thus becoming a part of the currency of the country. 'This money was afterwards lent to some of the new States, and a portion of it was lost; but it did not

<<<Page: 127>>>

belong to the United States—it was the property of the Smithsonian Tnstitution—and_ the government was bound in honor tu restore it. Congress has acknowledged this by declaring that the money is still in the treasury of the nation, bearing interest a the rate of 6 per cent., annually producing a revenue of about thirty thousand dollars.
It may be stated in this place, that the principal remains perpetually in the treasury of the United States, and that nothing but the interest
can be expended ; not only has the original bequest been preserved, but
a considerable addition has been made to the principal. At the time of the passing of the act establishing the Institution in 1846, the sum of $242,000 had accrued m interest, and this the Regents were authorized to expend on a building; but instead of appropriating this sum immediately to this purpose, ; they put it at interest, and deterred the completion of the building for several years, until $150,000 should be accumulated, the income toe which might defray the expense of keeping the building, and the greater portion of the income of the original bequest be devoted to the objects tor which it was designed. This policy has been rigidly adhered to, and the result is, that besides the original sum, and after all ‘that has been devoted to the building, the grounds, and all other operations, there is now on hand $200,000 of acounmulaced interest. Of this sum $50,000 are to be appropriated to finishing the building, and the remainder is to be added to the principal. The funds have tiereiore been carefully husbanded. |
The bequest, in the ‘language of the testator, was, ‘‘to found at Washmgton an establishment under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.’
According to this, the wovernment of the United States is merely a trustee. The bequest 1 is for the benefit of mankind, and any plan which does not recognise this provision of the will would be illiberal and unjust.
The Institution must bear and perpetuate the name of its founder ; and hence its operations ought to be kept distinct from those of the government, and all the ood | which results from the expenditure on the fund should be aceredited to the name of Smithson.
The object of the bequest is two-fold: first, to increase; and second, to diffuse knowledge among men. ‘These two objects are entirely diss tinct, and ought not to he confounded with one another. The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of new truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus enlar ged, a among men. , The distinction is generally recognised by men of science, aa in Europe different classes of scientific ‘and other societies are founded upon it.
Again: the will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge, and hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. Smithson was well aware that knowledge should not be viewed as existing in isolated parts, but as a whole, each portion of which throws light on all the other, and that the tendency of all is to improve the human mind, and to give it new sources of power and enjoyment. The most prevalent idea, however, in relation to the will, is that the money was intended exclusively for the diffusion of useful or immediately practical knowledge among the inhabitants of this country, but

<<<Page: 128>>>

it contains nothing from which such an inference can be drawn. All knowledge is useeal and the higher the more important. From the Paanciation of a single scientific truth may flow a hundred inventions, and the higher the truth the more important the deductions.
To effect the greatest good, the organization of the Institution should be such as to produce results which could not be attained by other means, and inasmuch as the bequest is for men in general, all merely local expenditures are violations of the will.
These views were not entertained at first, and great difficulties have been encountered in carrying them out. A number of literary men thought that a great library should be founded at Washington, and all the money expended on it. Others considered a museum the proper object, and another class thought the income should be devoted to the delivery of lectures throughout the country; while still another was of opinion that popular tracts should be published and distributed among the million. But all these views were advanced without a proper examination of the will, or a due consideration of the smallness of the income. ‘The diffusion of tracts has been a favorite idea, but it must be recollected that a single report of the Patent Office costs the government three times as much as the whole income of the Smithsonian fund. A single pamphlet of ten pages could not annually be printed by the Institution, and distributed to all who would have a claim to it.
(3.) The next question is, by what plan can the several requisitions of the will be fulfilled.
This question was not fully settled by the act of Congress. It directed the formation of a Library, a Museum, a Gallery of Arts, Lectures, and a building on a liberal scale to accommodate these objects. One clause, however, gave the Regents the power, after the foregoing objects are provided for, to expend the remainder of the income in any way they may think fit for carrying out the design of the testator.
The objects specified in the act of Congress evidently does not come up to the idea of the testator, as deduced from a critical examination ot his will. A library, a museum, a gallery of arts, though important in themselves, are local in their influence. I have from the beginning advocated this opinion on all occasions, and shall continue to advocate it whenever a suitable opportunity occurs.
The question, therefore, again recurs: what plan can be adopted in conformity with the terms of the bequest?
There are two. First—a number of men may be appointed by the Institution to make researches in the different branches of science, and to send accounts of their discoveries to all parts of the world. In this way, in the strictest sense of the terms, knowledge would be increased and diffused. But this plan is not compatible with the limited income of the Institution, and would offer many practical difficulties.
The other plan, and the one adopted, is to stimulate all persons in this country capable of advancing knowledge by original research, to labor in this line—to induce them to send the results to the Institution for examination and publication—and to assist all persons engaged in original investigations as far as the means of the Institution will allow; also to institute, at the expense and under the direction of the Institu

<<<Page: 129>>>

tion, particular researches. This plan has been found eminently practicable, and by means of it the Institution has been enabled to produce results which have made it favorably known in every part of the civilized world. The communications are submitted to competent judges, who vouch for the value and truth of the discoveries. The publications which result from this plan are presented to all the first class libraries in the world, as well as to all colleges and well established public institutions in this country. The intention is to place the publications in such positions as will enable them to be seen by the greatest number of persons. In this way a knowledge of the discoveries are diffused among men as widely as the income will allow.
No copyright is taken for the memoirs, and the writers of popular books are at liberty to use them in the compilation of their works. The knowledge which they contain is thus in time still more generally diffused. In other countries, institutions for the promotion of the discovery of new truths, and the publication of the results, are endowed by the government; but there are no institutions for this purpose here, and hence men of science labor under great disadvantages. The higher the value of a work of science, the fewer do its readers become. If writers wish to make money by their labors, they must publish novels.
The Principia of Newton did not pay for itself, and yet in the present day every one shares in the benefits accruing from it.
Another part of the plan is to publish reports on scientific subjects, and to spread them as widely as the state of the funds will allow.
Norre.—For an account of what has actually been accomplished, see the several reports of the Secretary.

<<<Page: 130>>>

chia ; i
ine Pay ceed ityh es my thi En a A:
i“ ; hs ‘i

<<<Page: 131>>>

To make the operations of the Institution more generally known, it has been thought advisable to append to this Report, for reprinting, the several Annual Reports of the Secretary. They give a connected history of all the operations of the Institution, from its organization to the end of the year 1852. These Reports exhibit the fact that very little change has been made in the plan of active operations originally adopted, and that all the anticipations which were entertained in regard to it have been fully realized.

<<<Page: 132>>>



<<<Page: 133>>>

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the Board of Re; gents, December 8, 1847.
GENTLEMEN: A statement of the financial condition of the Smithsonian Institution, and of the progress made in the erection of the buiiding, having been presented to your Board by the Committees charged with the care of these objects, it becomes my duty, as Secretary ot the Institution, to give an account of what has been done relative to the development of the plan of organization, and of the steps which have been taken in the way of carrying it into operation.
In accordance with my instructions, I consulted with men of eminence in the different branches of literature and science, relative to the details of the plan of organization, and arranged the various suggestions offered, 1 in the form of the accompanying programme. This, after having been submitted to a number of persons in whose knowledge and judgment I have confidence, is now presented to the Board, with the concurrence of the Committee on Organization, for consideration and provisional adoption. I regret that my engagements have been such as to render it impossible for me to call ypon many persons whose counsel would have been valuable, but I hope hereafter to avail myself of their advice in behalf of the Institution. I also regret that I could not give the names of those whose suggestions have been adopted in the programme ; the impossibility of rendering justice to all, has prevented my attempting this. Many of the suggestions have been offered by different persons, independently of each other ; and, indeed, the general plan of the increase and diffusion of knowledge, as adopted by the Board, is such as would naturally arise in the mind of any person conversant with the history of physical science, and with the means usually employed for its extension and diffusion.
The introduction to the programme contains a series of propositions, suggested by a critical examination of the will ofeSmithson, to serve as a ouide i in judging of the fitness of any proposed plan for carrying out a8 design of the testator. The first section of the programme gives the details of the plan proposed for the increase and diffusion of knowledge by means of publication and original researches. ‘The second section fur nishes the details, so far as they can be made out at the present time, of the formation of a library, and a collection of objects of nature and art. ‘These two plans combined, embrace the general propositions adopted by the Board of Regents at their last meeting, as the basis of future operations. It is anfendedh in the proposed plan to har-
* The first report of the Secretary was given in the second report of the Regents to ‘Congress, hence the number of the former is one less than that of the latter.

<<<Page: 134>>>

monize the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowledge, and to give to the Institution the widest rauenee compatible with its limited income. ‘That all the propositions will meet with general approval cannot be expected; and that this organization is the best that could be devised is neither asserted nor believed. ‘To produce a preort a plan of organization whicn shall be found to succeed perfectly in practice, and require no amendment, would be difficult under the most favorable circumstances, and becomes almost impossible where conflicting opinions are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of the act establishing the Institution are to be observed. It is not intended that the details of the organization, as given in the programme, should be permanently adopted without car eful trial; they are rather presented as suggestions to be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into operation gradually and cautiously , with such changes, from time to time, as
experienc € may dictate.
General considerations which should serve as a guide im adopting a plan of organization.
1. Witt or Smiruson. The property is bequeathed to the United States of America, “‘to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
2. The bequest 1 is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator.
3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and. perpetuate his name.
4. The objects of the Institution are—Ist, to increase, and 2d, to diffuse, knowledge among men.
5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of new truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, among men.”
6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.
7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating and promoting he discovery of new truths, and can be most efficiently diffused among men by means of the press.
one Ko effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be
such as to enable Ae Institution to produce results in the way of
increasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the existing institutions in our country.
9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provisionally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or beabandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.
ee TT

<<<Page: 135>>>

10. In order to make up for the loss,of time occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be added to the principal.
11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated,
the funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the
construction of the building; and not only should the first cost of the edifice be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair, and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it. There should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the Institution.
12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by the plan of the organization, and not the converse.
13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be benefited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.
14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced inamediately from the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are a library, a museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to contain them.
Plan of organization of the Institution, in accordance with the foregoung deductions from the will of Smithson.
To IncrEASE Knowiepce. It is proposed—
1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,
2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular researches, under the direction of suitable persons.
To Dirruse Know.epcGe. It is proposed—
1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the different branches of knowledge; and, _ 2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general anterest.
I. By stemulating researches.
1. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original memoirs on all branches of knowledge.
2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, in a quarto form, and entitled ‘Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.”
3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be accepted for publication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge resting on original research; and all unverified speculations to be rejected.
4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the

<<<Page: 136>>>

branch to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publication only in case the report of this commission is favorable.
5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favorable decision be made.
6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining copies may be offered for sale; and the other carefully preserved, to form complete sets of the volumes, to supply the demand from new Institutions.
7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs to be given to the public, through the annual report of the Regents to Congress. ;
II. By appropriating a portion of the income, annually, to special objcets of research, under the direction of suctable persons.
1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by counsellors of the Institution.
2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that, in course of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.
3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made:
1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the roblem of American storms.
(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation of a Physical Atlas of the United States.
(5.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity and of light;
chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of
articles of science, accumulated in the offices of government.
(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects. (5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in American history.
(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif—
ferent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our country.
I. By the publication of a series of reports, ging an account of the new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all branches of knowledge not strictly professional.
J. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interesting, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the

<<<Page: 137>>>

reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the income of the Institution, or the changes in the brass of knowledge, may indicate.
2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the different branches of knowledge.
3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publications, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report; to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title page of the report.
The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons interested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it, without purchasing the whole.
5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribution; the remaining copies to be given to liter: ary and scientific institu-
fo) tions, and sold to lie iduals for a moderate price.
The followmg are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the reports:
1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and meteorology.
2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.
3. Agriculture.
4. Application of science to arts.
Il MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.
5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative ‘philology, antiquities, &c.
6. Statistics and political economy.
7. Mental and moral philosophy.
8. A survey of the political events of the world; penal reform, &c.
Ill. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.
9. Modern literature. 10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 11. Bibliography.
12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. Il. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.
1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposition of a given subject.
2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission of competent judges previous to their publication.
3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the table of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Com

<<<Page: 138>>>

mittee on Organization, viz.: the statistics of labor, the productive arts of life, public mstruction, &c.
Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the Board of Regents, providing for the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowledge.
1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the income into two equal parts.
2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library and a collection of objects of nature and of art.
3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.
4. 'To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, consisting, Ist, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceedings of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more important current periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing the periodical reports.
5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of objects to verify its own publications.
6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of experimental science.
7. With reference to the collection ef books other than those mentioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.
8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and other materials, should be collected for rendering the Institution a centre of bibhographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which he may require.
9. It is believed that the collections in Natural History will increase by donation, as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make provision for their reception ; and therefore it will seldom be necessary to purchase any articles of this kind.
10. Attempts should be made to procure for the Gallery of Arts casts of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.
11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union, and other similar societies.
12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of antiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c.
13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act as Librarian.
14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence, with the advice of the Chancellor and other members of the establish-

<<<Page: 139>>>

ment, of the literary and scientific operations of the Institution; to give to the Regents annually an account of all the transactions, of the memoirs which have been received for publication, and of the researches which have been made; and to edit, with the assistance of the Librarian, the publications of the Institution.
15. The duty of the Assistant Secretary, acting as Librarian, will be, for the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and purchase, under the direction of the Secretary and a committee of the Board, books and catalogues, and to procure the information before mentioned ; to give information on plans of libraries, and to assist the Secretary in editing the publications of the Institution, and in the other duties of his office.
16. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, will be required to illustrate new discoveries in sciences, and to exhibit new objects of art; also distinguished individuals should be invited to give lectures on subjects of general imterest.
17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with the act of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the Smithsonian Institution, other assistants will be required.
Explanations and illustrations of the programme.
Though the leading propositions of the programme have been fully diseussed by the Board, yet it will be important to offer some remarks in explanation and illustration of them in their present connexion.
That the Institution is not a national establishment, in the sense in which institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must be evident, when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely given to the United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely : the establishment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name of the donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of all the good which may be accomplished by means of the bequest. The operations of the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be mingled as little as possible with those of the government, and its funds should be applied exclusively and faithfully to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.
That the bequest is intended for the benefit of men in general, and that its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even nation, may be inferred not only from the words of the will, but also from the character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote, from a scrap of paper in his own hand, the following sentiment bearing on this point: “The man of science has no country; the world is his country—all men his countrymen.” ‘The origin of the funds, the bequest of a foreigner, should also preclude the adoption of a plan which does not, in the words of Mr. Adams, “ spread the benefits to be derived from the Institution not only over the whole surface of this Union, but throughout the civilized world.” «Mr. Smithson’s reason for fixing the seat of his Institution at Washington obviously was, that there is the seat of government of the United States, and there the Congress by

<<<Page: 140>>>

whose legislation, and the Executive through whose agency, the trust committed to the honor, intelligence, and good faith of the nation, is to be fulfilled.” ‘The centre of operations being permanently fixed at Washington, the character of this city for literature and science will be the more highly exalted in proportion as the influence of the Institution is more widely diffused.
' ‘That the terms increase and diffusion of knowledge are logically distinct, and should be literally interpreted with reference to the will, must be evident when we reflect that they are used in a definite sense, and not as mere synonymes, by all who are engaged in the pursuits to which Smithson devoted his life. In England there are two classes of institutions, founded on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. The Royal Society, the Astronomical, the Geological, the Statistical, the Antiquarian Societies, all have for their object the increase of knowledge, while the London Institution, the Mechanics’ Institution, the Surry Institution, the Society for the Diffusion of Religious Knowledge, the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, are all intended to diffuse or disseminate knowledge among men. In our own country, also, the same distinction is observed in the use of the terms by men of science. Our colleges, academies, and common schools, are recognised as institutions partially intended for the diffusion of knowledge, while the express object of some of our scientific societies is the promotion of the discovery of new truths.
The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge; though propositions have been frequently made for devoting the funds exclusively to the promotion of certain branches of science having more immediate application to the practical arts of life, and the adoption of these propositions has been urged on the .ground of the conformity of such objects to the pursuits of Smithson: but an examination of his writings will show that he excluded from his own studies no branch of general knowledge, and that he was fully impressed with the important philosophical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great system of truth. ‘To restrict, therefore, the operations of the Institution to a single science or art, would do injustice to the character of the donor, as well as to the cause of general knowledge. If preference is to be given to any branches of research, it should be to the higher, and apparently more abstract ; to the discovery of new principles, rather than of isolated facts. And this is true even ina practical point of view. Agriculture would have forever remained an empirical art, had it not been for the light shed upon it by the atomic theory of chemistry ; and incomparably more is to be expected as to its future advancement from the perfection of the microscope, than from improvements in the ordinary instruments of husbandry.
The plan of increasing and diffusing knowledge, presented in the first section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance with the several propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in the Introduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design of interesting the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the Institution, and of spreading its influence as widely as possible. It forms an active organization, exciting all to make original researches who are

<<<Page: 141>>>

gifted with the necessary power, and diffusing a kind of knowledge, now only accessible to the few, among all those who are willing to receive it. In this country, though many excel in the application of science to the practical arts of life, few devote themselves to the continued labor and patient thought necessary to the discovery and developement of new truths. The principal cause of this want of attention ' to original research is the want, not of proper means, but of proper encouragement. The publication of original memoirs and _ periodical reports, as contemplated by the programme, will act as a powerful stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by placing in bold relief the real laborers in the field of original research, while it will afford the best materials for the use of those engaged in the diffusion of knowledge.
The advantages which will accrue from the plan of publishing the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge are various. In the first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favorably known wherever literature and science are cultivated, and to keep it in continual remembrance with each succeeding volume, as long as knowledge is valued. A single new truth, first given to the world through these volumes, will forever stamp their character as a work of reference. The Contributions will thus form the most befitting monument to perpetuate the name of one whose life was devoted to the increase of knowledge, and whose ruling passion, strong in death, prompted the noble bequest intended to facilitate the labors of others in the same pursuit.
Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs will afford to the Institution the most ready means of entering into friendly relations and correspondence with all the learned societies m the world, and of enriching its library with their current transactions and proceedings. But perhaps the most important effect of the plan will be that of giving to the world many valuable memoirs, which, on account of the expense of the illustrations, could not be otherwise published. Every one who adds new and important truths to the existing stock of knowledge, must be, of necessity, to a certain degree, in advance of his age. Hence the number of readers and purchasers of a work is often in the inverse ratio of its intrinsic value; and consequently, authors of the highest rank of merit are frequently deterred from giving their productions to the world on account of the pecuniary loss to which the publication would subject them. When our lamented countryman, Bowditch, contemplated publishing his commentary on La Place, he assembled his family and informed them that the execution of this design would sacrifice one third of his fortune, and that it was proper his heirs should be consulted on a subject which so nearly concerned them. The answer was worthy of the children of such a father: “We value,” said they, ‘“ your reputation more than your money.” Fortunately, in this instance, the means of making such a. sacrifice existed ; otherwise one of the proudest monuments of American science could not have been given to the world. In the majority of cases, however, those who are most capable of extending human knowledge are least able to incur the expense of the publication. Wilson, the American ornithologist, states, in a letter to Michaux, that he has sacrificed everything to publish his work: “I have issued,” he says, ‘six vol

<<<Page: 142>>>

umes, and am engaged on the seventh; but as yet I have not received a single cent of the proceeds.’’ In an address on the subject of natural history, by one of our most active cultivators of this branch of knowledge, we find the following remarks, which are directly in point: “Few are acquainted with the fact that from the small number of scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates, our naturalists not only are not paid for their labors, but suffer pecumary loss from their pubbeations. Several works on different branches of zoology, now in the course of publication, will leave their authors losers by an ageregate of $15,000. Ido not include in this estimate works already finished—one, for instance, the best contribution to the natural history of man extant, the publication of which will occasion its accomplished author a loss of several thousand dollars. A naturalist is extremely fortunate if he can dispose of 200 copies of an illustrated work, and the number of cupies printed rarely exceeds 250.” It may be said that these authors have their reward in the reputation which they thus purchase ; but reputation should be the result of the talents and labor expended in the production of a work, and should not in the least depend upon the fact that the author is able to make a pecuniary sacrifice m giving the account of his discoveries to the public.
Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published in the Smithsonian Contributions free ef expense, his labors will be given to the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of learned men; and his merits will be generally made known through the reports of the Institution. ‘Though the premiums offered may be small, yet they will have considerable effect in producing original articles. Fifty or a hundred dollars awarded to the author of an original paper, will, in many instances, suffice to supply the books, or to pay for the materials, or the manual labor required, in prosecuting the research.
There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to much discussion, and which, therefore, requires particular explanation : I allude to that which excludes from the contributions all papers consisting merely of unverified speculations on subjects of physical seience. The object of this proposition is to obviate the endless difficulties which would occur in rejecting papers of an unphilosophical character; and though it may in some cases exclude an interesting communication, yet the strict observance of it will be found of so much practical importance that it cannot be dispensed with. It has been supposed, from the adoption of this proposition, that we are disposed to undervalue abstract speculations: on the contrary, we know that all the advances in true science— namely, a knowledge of the laws of phenomena, are made by provisionally adopting well conditioned hypotheses, the product of the imagination, and subsequently verifying them by an appeal to experiment and observation. Every new hypothesis of scientific value must not only furnish an exact explanation of known facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind and quantity, the phenomena which will be exhibited under any given combination of circumstances. Thus, in the case of the undulatory hypothesis of light, it was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the supposition were true that light consisted of waves of an ethereal medium, then two rays of light, like two waves of water under certain conditions, should annihilate each other, and darkness be produced.

<<<Page: 143>>>

The experiment was tried, and the anticipated result was obtained. It is this exact agreement of the deduction with the actual result of experience that constitutes the verification of an hypothesis, and which alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to a place in the transactions of a scientific institution. It must be recollected that it is much easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few of all the hypotheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific verification.
For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a memoir, and the precaution taken before it is accepted for publication, I would refer to the correspondence, given in a subsequent part of this report, relative to the memoir now in process of publication by the Institution. As it is not our intention to interfere with the proceedings of other institutions, but to co-operate with them, so far as our respective operations are compatible, communications may be referred to learned societies for inspection, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir, and abstracts of them given to the world through the bulletins of these societies, while the details of the memoirs and their expensive illustrations are published in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. The officers of several learned societies in this country have expressed a willingness to co-operate in this way.
Since original research is the most direct way of imcreasing knowledge, it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the bequest should be appropriated to this purpose, provided suitable persons can be found, and their labors be directed to proper objects. The number, however, of those who are capable of discovering scientific principles is comparatively small; like the poet, they are ‘born, not made,” and, like him, must be left to choose their own subject, and wait the fitting time of inspiration. In case a person of this class has fallen on a vein of discovery, and is pursuing it with success, the better plan will be to grant him a small sum of money to carry on his investigations, provided they are considered worthy of assistance by competent judges. This will have the double effect of encouraging him in the pursuit, and of facilitating his progress. The Institution, however, need not depend upon cases of this kind, even if they were more numerous than they are, for the application of its funds in the line of original research. There are large fields of observation and experiment, the cultivation of which, though it may afford no prospect of the discovery of a principle, can hardly fail to produce results of importance both in a practical and theoretic point of view. As an illustration of this remark, I may mention the case of the investigations made a few years ago by a committee of the Franklin Institute, of Philadelphia. The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States placed at the disposal of this society a sum of money, for the purpose of making experiments with reference to the cause of the explosion of steam boilers. A committee of the society was chosen for this purpose, which adopted the ingenious plan of writing to all persons in the United States engaged in the application of steam, and particularly to those who had observed the explosion of a steam boiler. In this way opinions and suggestions in great variety, as to the cause of explosions, were obtained. The most plausible of these were submitted to the test of ex

<<<Page: 144>>>

periment: the results obtained were highly important, and are to be found favorably mentioned in every systematic work on the-subject of steam which has appeared, in any language, within the last few years. New and important facts were established; and, what was almost of as much consequence, errors which had usurped the place of truth were dethroned.
In the programme, examples are given of a few subjects of original research to which the attention of the Institution may be turned. I will mention one in this place, which. in connexion with the contents of our first memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude to a small appropriation made annually for researches with reference to the remains of the ancient inhabitants of our country. This is a highly interesting field, and what is done in regard to it should be done quickly. Every year the progress of civilization is obliterating the ancient mounds, cities and villages are rising on the spots they have so long occupied undisturbed, and the distinctive marks of these remains are every year becoming less and less legible.
In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affecting men in general by the operations of the Institution, it is evident that the principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the press. Though lectures should be given in the city in which Smithson has seen fit to direct the establishment of his Institution, yet, as a plan of general diffusion of knowledge, the system of lectures would be entirely inadequate ; every village in our extended country would have a right to demand a share of the benefit, and the income of the Institution would be insufficient to supply a thousandth part of the demand. It is also evident that the knowledge diffused should, if possible, not only embrace all branches of general interest, so that each reader might find a subject suited to his taste, but also that it should differ in kind and quality from that which can be readily obtained through the cheap pubhications of the day. These requisites will be fully complied with in the publications of the series of reports proposed in the programme. A series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all the discoveries in science from time to time, and giving a well digested account of all the important changes in the different branches of knowledge, is a desideratum in the English language. The idea is borrowed from a partial plan of this kind in operation in Sweden and Germany; and for an example of what the work should be, I would refer to the annual report to the Swedish Academy of its perpetual secretary, Berzelius, on physical science. ‘The reports can be so prepared as to be highly interesting to the general reader, and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive cultivator of a particular branch of knowledge. Full references should be given, in foot-notes, to the page, number, or volume of the work from which the information was obtained, and where a more detailed account can be found. It is scarceiy necessary to remark, that the preparation of these reports should be entrusted only to persons profoundly acquainted with the subjects to which they relate, namely : to those who are devoted to particular branches, while they possess a knowledge of general principles. Sufficient explanations should be introduced to render the report intelligible to the general reader, without destroying its scientific character. Occasionally reports may be obtained from abroad—as, for ex

<<<Page: 145>>>

ample, accounts of the progress of certain branches of knowledge in foreign countries—and these may be translated, if necessary, and incorporated into other reports, by some competent person in this country.
Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme proposes to publish occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. There are always subjects of general interest, of which brief expositions would be of much value. The preparation of these, however, should be intrusted to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be subjected to a revision by competent and responsible judges before they are given to the public. They may be presented in the form of reports on the existing state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may sometimes consist of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of literature and science, translated from foreign languages. ‘The reports and treatises of the Institution, sold at a price barely sufficient to pay the expense of printing, will find their way mto every school in our country, and will be used not as first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of relable information for the teacher.
The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been made out, the details of the part of the plan of organization directed by the act of Congress establishing the Institution. The two plans, namely, that of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects of nature and art, are not incompatible, and may be carried on harmoniously with each other. The only effect which they will have on one another is that of limiting the operation of each, on account of the funds given tothe other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical expenditure of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the plan of finance suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the buildmg, much good may be effected in each of the two branches of the Institution. T’o carry on the operations of the first, a working library’ will be required, consisting of the past volumes of the transactions and proceedings of all the learned societies in every language. ‘These are the original sources from which the most important principles of the positive knowledge of our day have been drawn. We shall also require a collection of the most important current literature and science for the use of the collaborators of the reports; most of these, however, will be procured in exchange for the publications of the Institution, and therefore will draw but little from the library fund. For other suggestions relative to the details of the library, I would refer you to the annexed communication from Professor Jewett, Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian.
The collections of the Institution, as far as possible, should consist of such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan be kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals. A perfect collection of all objects of nature and of art, if such could be obtained and deposited in one place, would form a museum of the highest interest; but the portion of the income of the bequest which can be devoted to the increase and maintenance of the museum will be too small to warrant any attempt towards an indiscriminate collection. It is hoped that in due time other means may be found of establishing and supporting a general collection of objects of nature and art at the

<<<Page: 146>>>

seat of the general government, with funds not derived from the Smithsonian bequest. For the present, it should be the object of the Institution to confine the application of the funds, first, to such collections as will tend to facilitate the study of the memoirs which may be published in the Contributions, and to establish their correctness ; secondly, to the purchase of such objects as are not generally known in this country, in the way of art, and the illustration of antiquities, such as models of buildings, &c.; and, thirdly, to the formation of a collection of instruments of physical research, which will be required both in the illustration of new physical truths, and in the scientific investigations undertaken by the Institution.
Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the Institution at Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on stated evenings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assemblies, after the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution in London. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture, new truths in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited. Besides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects by the officers of the Institution, or by distinguished individuals invited for the purpose.
Commencement of the operations of the Institution.
I was authorized, in connexion with the Committee on Organization, to commence the publication of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, and to receive any memoir which might be presented on any subject, provided it was found, on examination, to furnish an interesting addition to the sum of human knowledge, resting on original research. The first memoir presented, and found to be of the character prescribed by the resolution of the Board, was one on the remains of the ancient inhabitants of the North American continent. It contains the result of several years’ labor in the survey and exploration of the mounds and earthworks of the Mississippi valley, and will furnish a highly interesting addition to the antiquities of our country, which could not have been given to the world but for the timely aid extended to it by this Institution. The memoir was referred to the American Ethno-~ logical Society, with a request that a committee of its members might be a appointed to examine and report on its character, as to fitness ‘for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. On the favorable report of this committee, and on the responsibility of the society, the memoir has been accepted for publication. 'The following correspondence will serve to give an account of the work, and to illustrate the manner in which it is proposed to submit the papers which
may be presented for publication to a commission of competent judges.
Se ae

<<<Page: 147>>>

From Messrs. Squer and Davis to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
CurtuicotHE, O., May 15, 1847.
Dear Sir: It is proposed in the recognised plan of organization of the Smithsonian Institution, of which you are the executive officer, to publish, under the title of “ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,” such original papers and memoirs ‘as shall constitute valuable additions to the sum of human knowledge.’’ Under the belief that it falls legitimately within the scope of the above plan, the undersigned herewith submit for acceptance and publication, subject to the prescribed rules of the Institution, a MS. memoir, entitled, ‘*Anctenr MonuMENTS OF tHE Mississtpp1 VALLEY, comprising the results of Extensive Original Surveys and Explorations: by EK. G. Squier and E. H. Davis.” The extent of these investigations, and their general character, are sufficiently indicated in the prefatory remarks to the volume.
With high consideration, we are truly yours,
E. GEO. SQUIER, E.. H.DAVIS: JosEPH Henry, Esq., Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
From the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the President of the American Ethnological Society.
W AsHING TON, June 2, 1847.
Dear Sir: [am authorized by the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to publish, in the numbers of the ‘¢ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,” any memoir which may be presented for this purpose, provided that, on careful examination by a commission of competent judges, the memoir shall be found to furnish a new and interesting addition to knowledge, resting on original research. The accompanying memoir, entitled ‘ Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley,” Sc., having been presented for publication, I beg leave to refer the same, through you, to the American Ethnological Society, with a request that a committee of the members may be appointed to examine and report on its character, in reference to the particulars above mentioned. It the report of the committee is favorable, the memoir will be accepted for publication ; full confidence being placed in the ability of the committee to judge of the character of the article, and in their caution in making up their opinion.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary Smithsonian Institution. Hon. ALBERT GALLATIN, President American Ethnological Society.

<<<Page: 148>>>

Extracts of a letter from the President of the American Ethnological Society to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
New York, June 12, 1847.
‘Dear Sir: I have the honor to enclose a copy of the proceedings and resolutions of the New York Ethnological Society upon the MS. work on American antiquities, by Messrs. E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, submitted with your letter of the 2d inst.
‘“‘T approve entirely of the resolutions and recommendations of the society.
* * * * * * * * * * x
‘Whatever may be the intrinsic value of the remains of former times which are found in the United States, it is necessary that they should at least be correctly described, and that existing gross errors should be corrected ; and I repeat my conviction that, though ardent, Messrs. Squier and Davis are animated by that thorough love of truth which renders their researches worthy of entire confidence.
* * * * * * * * * * x
‘‘T have the honor to be, &c.,
‘Prof. J. HENnry;
** Secretary of Smithsonian Institution.”’
At a regular meeting of the American Ethnological Society, held at the house of the Hon. ALBERT GALLATIN, on the evening of the 4th of June, the president laid before the members a communication from Professor J. Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting, for the examination and opinion of the society, a MS. work on the Ancient Aboriginal Monuments of the United States. On motion, the letter and accompanying MX. were referred to a committee consisting of Epwarp Rosrnson, D. D., Joun R. Barritetrtr, Professor W. W. Turner, SamuEt G. Morton, M. D., and Hon Groree P. Marsu, to report upon the same. At a subsequent meeting of the society, this committee submitted the following report and resolutions, which were unanimously accepted and adopted :
The committee of the American Ethnological Society, to which was referred the communication of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting a manuscript work, entitled “ Ancrent MonuMENTS oF THE Mississrpp1 VALLEY, comprising the results of Extensive Original Surveys and Explorations,” by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davts, beg leave to report that:
They have examined the work in question, and regard it not only as a new and interesting, but as an eminently valuable addition to our stock of knowledge on a subject little understood, but in which is felt a deep and constantly increasing interest, both in our country and abroad. In their judgment, the work is worthy of the subject, and
i al
ee et el ee

<<<Page: 149>>>

highly creditable to the authors. Its chief features are, a scientific arrangement, simplicity, and directness of statement, and legitimate deduction from facts, while there is no attempt at mere speculation or theory. If published, it will be an enduring monument to connect the names of the investigators in honorable and “lasting remembrance with the great subject of ‘American Archeology.
The existence and progress of these investigations were made known to the society by correspondence early inthe year 1846; and in Juneof that year i Saag of the relics recovered, accompanied by numerous maps and plans of ancient earthworks and sectional views of the mounds from which the remains were taken, were laid before the society by Mr. Squier in person. ‘These excited deep interest and surprise in all who saw them; and the society immediately took measures to encourage further investigation, and secure the publication, under its own auspices, of the important results already obtained. A few months later, the chairman of the present committee, being in Ohio, was enabled through the kindness of Messrs. Squier and Davis, to visit several of the more important monuments in the immediate vicinity of Chillicothe, and, among these, ‘‘ Mound City,” so called, from which very many of the minor ~ relics and specimens were procured. He was struck with the accuracy of the plans and drawings, as well as of the accounts which had been laid before the society, a bears full testimony to the fidelity and integrity with which the process of investigation and delineation has been conducted.
During the last and present season the researches of these gentlemen have been actively prosecuted and widely extended, and the above work, largely illustrated, comprising the results, has been prepared. These results are so numerous and important, and consequently such is the extent and magnitude of the work itself, as to put its publication beyond any means which the society can command. Under these circumstances, your committee learn with pleasure that preliminary arrangements ‘have been made for its publication by the Smithsonian Institution among its ‘¢ Contributions to Knowledge.” It can only be a matter of sincere gratification to this society to see that which it cannot itself accomplish for the history and antiquities of our country taken up and carried out under such favorable auspices ; and they cannot but rejoice that an opportunity is thus afforded to that noble Institution of opening its high career by fostering scientific researches into the interesting problems connected with the ante-Columbian history and aboriginal monuments of our own country.
“In view of these facts, your committee would recommend the adoption of the following resolutions by the society :
Resolved, That this society regard the researches of Messrs. Squier and Davis as of very great inyportance in American Archeology, and as ¢asting much light upon our aboriginal antiquities, especially upon the character and habits of the earliest races which had their seat in the Mississippi valley.
Resolved, That we regard the work prepared upon this subject as one of great general interest, and as worthy to be adopted for publication by the Smithsonian Institution, both as resting on original re

<<<Page: 150>>>

searches, and as affording remarkable illustrations of the history of the American continent.
Your committee would also append to this report the accompanying letters from Samuel G. Morton, M. D., of Philadelphia, and Hon. George P. Marsh, of Vermont, both members of this society, and joint members of this committee.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
EDWARD ROBINSON, JOHN R. BARTLETT, } Committee. W. W. TURNER, New York, June, 1847.
New York, June 9, 1847.
I have examined with much interest and attention the manuscripts, drawings, and ancient relics in the possession of Mr. E. G. Squier, and am happy to say that my previous impressions concerning the value of the researches of that gentleman and his associate are fully confirmed. It is fortunate for the cause of American Archeology that the first systematic attempt at its elucidation should have been conceived and executed in so truly philosophical a spirit ; and rich as this age already isin antiquarian lore, it has, I think, received few more important con tributions than that which the enlightened and generous zeal of these two private gentlemen is about to confer upon it. The Smithsonian collections could not begin with a more appropriate or creditable essay 3 and I hope that every facility may be afforded to the authors in bringing before the public the results of their honorable labors in as suitable a form and with as little delay as possible.
' PuriapDELpPuia, June 8, 1847.
As a member of the committee of the American Ethnological Society, appointed to report on the memoir on American Archeology, by Messrs. E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, I have great pleasure in saying, that after a careful and repeated inspection of the materials in the hands ot those gentlemen, [am convinced they constitute by far the most important contribution to the Archeology of the United States, that has ever been offered to the public. The number and accuracy of their plans, sketches, &c., have both interested and surprised me, and it is gratifying to learn that the preliminary arrangements have been made for their publication under the honorable auspices of the Smithsonian Institution.
The memoirs of Messrs. Squier and Davis will occupy the greater portion, if not the whole, of the first volume of the Contributions. The

<<<Page: 151>>>

“lustrations will consist of fifty-five quarto plates of the mounds, earthworks, and maps of the adjacent country ; also, of about two hundred Sage. principally delineations of tlhe various articles found in the mounds. ‘Those who consider no branch of knowledge of any value but such as relates to the immediate gratification of our physical wants, have objected to the acceptance of hig memoir as one of the first publications of the Institution; but it must be recollected that the will of Smithson makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge, and that each branch is, therefore, entitled to a share of bis beuest. ‘The ethnological memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis was the first, of the proper character, presented for publication, and hence it was entitled to the first place in the series of Smithsonian Contributions. Beside this, it furnishes an addition to a branch of knowledge which is at this time occupying the attention of a large class of minds, and which cannot fail to be interesting to every intelligent person who would learn something of the changes to which man has been subjected.
It is proposed to insert in one of the volumes of the Contributions a sketch of the life of Smithson. The materials for this have been collected from the several volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Society, and the scientific journals of the beginning of the present and the latter part of the last century. The first wolunie will be published as soon as the wood-cuts and plates, now in the course of preparation, are finished.
Besides the memoirs before mentioned, a number of others have been presented, some of which, though apparently of interest, and the product of thought and labor, were not OE the character required by the resolution of the Boar d, and fhesoliave either been returned to their authors, or are in the possession of the Secretary. A number of others have also been provisionally adopted, or are in the course of preparation. Some of thes? are on the most abstruse parts of physical science, and all will do honor to the intellectual character of our country. ‘Though the number of original memoirs which will be found worthy of a place in the Contributions will probably not be large, yet it will, perhaps, be best to set apart a definite
portion of the income of the bequest—as, for example, at present three
or four thousand dollars annually—to defray the expense of this part of
the plan of increasing knowledge. A considerable portion, however,
\ g s sey eee of the sum thus expended will be returned to the Institution in the form
of additions to its hbrary. I may also suggest, in this place, the propriety of the adoption by the Board of a resolution inviting all engaged in original research to send the results ef their labors tor publication i in the Smithsonian Contributions.
The Board also directed me to commence the collection of apparatus ; and I accordingly sent orders to Europe, to the amount of twelve hundred dollars, for the purchase of such articles as could not be procure yal in the United States. Most of the instruments have been received, and will be found of importance not only in the way of original research, but also in illustrating some of the most interesting and recent phe nomena of physical science, as well as serving as samples for imitation to the artists of this country. It was thought that these articles would be admitted free of duty, and a petition to this effect was presented to the Secretary of the Treasury; but—though this officer is well known

<<<Page: 152>>>

to be much interested in the prosperity of the Institution—such is the nature of the law that the duty could not be remitted.
There is an article of apparatus which, within a few years past, has opened almost a new world of research in the phenomena of life and organization, the use of which is now indispensable in advancing our knowledge of physiology and its kindred branches of science. I allude to the achromatic microscope, to increase the power of which the artists of Germany, France, and Kngland have vied with each other. On account of the small number of persons who are capable of constructing the proper lenses, the best specimens of this instrument are very scarce in this country, and can be procured only at a great expense. Under these circumstances, it was a matter of much mec to lear n, from a source which could be relied on, that an individual in the interior of the Staite of New York had successfully devoted himself to the study of the microscope, and that he was able to produce instruments of this kind which would compete with the best of those constructed in Europe. In order to do justice to the talents and labors of this person, as well as to furnish the Institution with a valuable imstrument of research, I requested him to construct a microscope, to be paid for out of the funds for the purchase of apparatus, provided that a commission, appointed by myself, should find it capable of producing certain effects. This proposition was accepted, and the result will probably be given to the Board at the next meeting.
Preparations have also been made for instituting various lines of physical research. Among the subjects mentioned by way of example in the programme for the application of the funds of the Institution is terrestrial magnetism. I need scarcely say that this is a subject of high interest not only ina theoretical point of view, but also in its direct reference to navigation and the various geodetical operations of civil and military
lite. A resolution of Congress euthorizing the exploration of the mine-
ral lands adjacent to the great lakes has given to us the means of ad-_
vancing this branch of knowledge with but little expenditure of the funds of the Institution. The Secretary of the Treasury readily agreed to the proposition that there should be added to the mineralogical and geological surveys of these regions, determinations of the “dip, the variation, and the intensity of the magnetic forces, provided that the Smithsonian Institution would furnish one set of the instruments, and take charge of the direction of the observations, and of reducing and publishing them. In the survey of the mineral lands in the vicinity of Lake Michigan, under Dr. Jackson; Dr. Locke, of Cincinnati, has been employed with his own apparatus; and, to make provision for
the survey in Wisconsin, preliminary steps have been taken to pro-
cure other instruments from London.
Another subject of research mentioned in the programme, and which — has been urged upon the immediate attention of the Institution, is that — of an extensive system of meteorological observations, particularly with reference to the phenomena of American storms. Of late years, 1n our country, more additions have been made to meteorology than to any other branch of physical science. Several important generalizations have been arrived at, and definite theories proposed, which now enable us to direct our attention, with scientific precision, to such points of
a ee

<<<Page: 153>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 147 observation as cannot fail to reward us with new and interesting results. It is proposed to organise a system of observations which shall extend as far as possible over the North American continent; and, in order to do this, it will be necessary to engage the co-operation of the British government. I have accordingly addressed a letter to Lieutenant Colonel Sabine, Corresponding Secretary of the Royal Society, who assures me that, as soon as the plan is fully matured for this country, there will be no difficulty in establishing a system of corresponding observavations in the British provinces. I have also addressed letters to several gentlemen distinguished for their attainments in meteorology, asking for suggestions as to the plan of observation; and I beg leave to refer the Board to the accompanying report of Professor Loomis, of New York University, and also to the communication of Professor Espy, received in answer. ‘The former contains an exposition of the advantages which may be derived from the study of meteorology, and what has been done in this branch of science in this country, and what encouragement there is for the further prosecution of the same subject, together with a general plan of operations. The present time appears to be peculiarly auspicious for commencing an enterprise of the proposed kind. The citizens of the United States are now scattered over every part of the southern and western portion of North America, and the extended lines of telegraph will furnish a ready means of warning the more northern and eastern observers to be on the watch for the first appearance of an advancing storm.
All which is respectfully submitted. JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary.
To the Recents of the Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 154>>>

The Committee of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, to whom was referred a letter of Professor Henry, of the 30th September, together with the programme of the organization of the Smithsonian Institution accompanying the said letter, have had the same under consideration, and beg leave to submit the following report :
Professor Henry is understood to be desirous of ascertaining the opinions of the scientific bodies of the country on the subject of the proposed organization of the Smithsonian Institution; and the free expression of their views is invited by him.
The interesting nature and high importance of this foundation, and the novel and peculiar circumstances attending its establishment, make it highly expedient, im the opinion of the committee, that every step taken in its organization should be deliberately considered. They think it no more than just to express their satisfaction, that the control of the infant establishment has been placed in the hands of a Board of Regents of the highest intelligence, respectability, and weight of character ; and in the wise selection made of the officers on whom the active executive duties of the Institution will devolve, the committee perceive a satisfactory pledge as far as they are concerned.
Prof. Henry’s programme commences with ‘ General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting the plan of organization.” He points out the nature of the bequest as made to the United States for the purpose of founding at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. The bequest is accordingly for the benefit of mankind. The government of the United States is but a trustee to carry out this noble design. Even the people of the United States are interested only so far as they constitute one of the great families of the human race.
The objects of the Institution are twofold: first, the increase ; and second, the diffusion of knowledge ; objects which, although frequently in a vague way confounded with each other, (inasmuch as it often happens that knowledge is diffused by the same acts which increase it,) are nevertheless logically distinct, and require to be separately regarded. No particular kind of knowledge is specified by the founder as entitled

<<<Page: 155>>>

to preference; all branches are entitled to a share of attention; and the order and degree in which they are cultivated must be decided by a wise regard to means and circumstances. Knowledge may be increased by various modes of encouraging and facilitating the discovery of new truths ; it is diffused chiefly, though not exclusively, through the mstrumentality of the press. The organization should be such as to produce results not within the province of the existing institutions of the country. It was, for instance, evidently not the design of the hberal founder to establish a collegiate institution or a place of education ; nor would it be wise to appropriate his bequest for such an object, already sufhciently attained by the ordinary resources of public and private liberality. Considering the novelty of the undertaking, it would be manifestly unwise to stake too much on the success of the first efforts. ‘The organization should be such as to admit of changes and modifications under the light of experience. As several years have elapsed since the fund came into the possession of the United States, it seems no more than equitable that a considerable portion of the accruing interest should be added to the principal, to make up for the loss of time. The committee consider this suggestion as perfectly reasonable, and trust it will receive the favorable consideration of Congress. Liberal as is the original bequest, the sum is but small compared with the great objects to be accomplished. This consideration suggests the absolute necessity of economy in any outlay on buildings and fixtures; in reference to which a prudent regard must be had, not merely to the first cost, but to the future expenses of repairs, and the support of the establishment. Great care must be taken not to multiply the number of persons to be permanently supported by the Institution. A clear and settled idea of its organization and mode of operation must precede the adoption of a plan of building; lest after the completion of a costly edifice it should be found nearly or quite useless, or worse than useless, by forcing a character upon the Institution which would not otherwise have been given it. All view to mere local ornament or advantage should be discarded at the outset, in the management of a trust created for the benefit of mankind.
Such, very slightly expanded in a few of the propositions, are the general considerations proposed by Professor Henry as guides in adopting a plan of organization. ‘They command the entire assent of the committee, and none of them more so than those which refer to the necessity of strict economy in the expenditure of the fund ona building, and the exclusion of undue regard to local ornament. It would not be difficult to point to a memorable instance in which the most munificent bequest ever made for the purposes of education has been rendered comparatively unavailing, in a sister city of the Union, by the total disregard of these wise principles. It is an additional. reason for observing them, that the attempt to erect a highly imposing building for local ornament will not only crush in the bud all hope of fulfilling the ulterior objects of the bequest, but will be almost sure to fail of a satisfactory result, as far as the edifice itself is concerned.
The Secretary’s plan of organization in reference to the increase of knowledge is so accurately digested and so thoroughly condensed, that the committee think it would be best to quote his own words:

<<<Page: 156>>>

‘“'T'O INCREASE KNOWLEDGE, it is proposed—
‘Ist. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and
«2d. 'To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular researches under the direction of suitable persons.”
These methods of inercasing knowledge are further unfolded in the following ‘detail of the plan” for that purpose :
“T, By stimulating researches.
‘“‘ Ist. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original memoirs on all branches of knowledge.
“2d. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes in a quarto form, and entitled ‘Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.’
“¢ 3d. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for publication which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge ; and all unverified speculation to be rejected.
“4th. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for examination to a committee of persons of reputation for learning in the branch to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publication only in case the report is favorable.
“5th. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed until a favorable decision shall have been made.
“6th. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions of all literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the colleges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved to form complete sets of the work to supply the demand from new imstitutions.
“7th. An abstract or popular account of the contents of these memoirs should be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to Congress.
“TI. By appropriating a portion of ihe income annually to special objects of research, under the direction of suitable persons.
‘Ist. The objects and the amounts appropriated to be recommended by counsellors of the Institution.
‘¢2d. Appropriation in different years to different objects, so that in course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share.
“3d. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
‘‘Ath. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made:
‘©(1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the problem of American storms.
*¢(2.) Geological, magnetical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for a physical atlas of the United States.
©(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as weighing the earth, new determination of the velocity of electricity and light, chemical analyses of soils and plants, collection and publication of articles of science accumulated in the offices of the government.

<<<Page: 157>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 15a
‘¢ (4.) Institution of statistical inquiries, with reference to physical, moral, and political subjects.
‘¢(5.) Historical researches and accurate surveys of places celebrated in history.
*¢(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the present races of men in North America; also explorations and accurate surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our country.”
The committee have made this long extract from Professor Henry’s programme in order to give to the Academy an adequate idea of the proposed plan, as far as it refers to the first branch, or the increase of knowledge. It has, in some of its features, been already adopted. It is already announced that one voluminous memoir, copiously illustrated by engravings, is already on its passage through the press, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution. The committee refer to an elaborate memoir, by Messrs. Squier and Davis, on the aboriginal mounds discovered in large numbers in various parts of the United States, and especially in the region northwest of the Ohio. This memoir was accepted on the favorable report of the Ethnological Society of New York, to which it had been referred by the Secretary of the Institution, and in whose Transactions an abridgment of it has appeared. It is also understood that a memoir on one of the most interesting subjects which engages the attention of geometers and mathematicians at the present moment, viz., the planet Neptune, has been invited by the Secretary from one of our own members. ;
While the committee would deprecate all attempts unduly to stimulate the increase of knowledge, as sure to prove abortive, and to result at best in the publication of crude investigations, they believe it quite possible to remove some of the obstructions to its progress. Narrow circumstances are too apt to be the lot of genius when devoted to scientific pursuits ; and the necessity of providing for personal and domestic wants too often absorbs the time and faculties of those who might, if relieved from cares of this kind, have adorned their age and benefited mankind. To such mena moderate pecuniary advantage derived from a successful investigation might be of vast importance. The efhicacy of market upon production is not limited to the creations of physical labor. It is seen in the history of science and literature of every age and country. Invention in the mechanical arts and skill in practical science are well paid in this country, and how great is the harvest! The extraordinary effect even of an honorary inducement is seen in the case of the medal offered by the King of Denmark for the discovery of Telescopic Comets. On these principles it may be hoped that by offering a moderate pecuniary compensation for researches of real merit, valuable contributions to knowledge will be produced ; while their publication will tend directly to the diffusion of knowledge.
_ An encouragement somewhat similar toward the promotion of the increase of knowledge would be afforded by another part of the proposed operations, that of providing the requisite apparatus and implements, and especially books, to be placed in the hands of those engaged in particular lines of investigation. In this way it is not unlikely that a considtrable amount of talent may be rendered effective, which at

<<<Page: 158>>>

ps2 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
/ present is condemned to inactivity, from local position unfavorable to scientific research.
It is not the purpose of the committee to engage in minute criticism of the details of the programme ; but it may not be out of place to suggest a doubt of the practicability or expediency of carrying into rigid execution, ‘the rejection of all unverified speculations,’’ as proposed in the third paragraph of the first section above cited; while it 1s obviously advisable to discountenance all theoretical speculations not directly built upon observation, 1t might be too much to exact, in all cases, that these speculations should have been actually verified. Neo small portion of modern geology is an ingenious structure of speculative generalizations. 'The undulatory theory of light can hardly claim any other character. The nebular theory, though proposed and illustrated by the highest astronomical talent of the past and present generation, is rapidly sinking from the domain of accredited speculations. It may be doubted even whether M. Le Verrier’s brilliant memoirs on the perturbations of Uranus would not, as published before the discovery of Neptune, have fallen within this principle of rejection rigorously applied. Upon the whole, the committee think very favorably of all parts of the plan for increasing knowledge; and feel no doubt that it would afford important encouragement to scientific pursuits. ‘To suppose that it will create an era in science, or throw into the shade the ordinary educational and intellectual influences at work in the country, would be extravagant. It is enough and all that can be expected, if it be a rational plan for appropriating moderate means towards the attainment of a desirable end.
To fulfil the other object of the trust, viz. to “ diffuse knowledge,” the Secretary proposes to publish * A Series of Reports, giving an account of the new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all branches of knowledge not strictly professional.’”’ These reports are to be prepared by collaborators, most eminent in their several departments, who are to receive a compensation for their labors ; the collaborators to be furnished with all the journals and other publieations necessary to the preparation of their reports.
The following enumeration of the proposed subjects of these reports will afford the Academy a full conception of this part of the plan.
I. Physical class.
1. Physics, including Astronomy, Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Meteorology.
2. Natural History, including Botany, Zoology, and Geology.
3. Agriculture.
4. Application of Science to Art.
Il. Moral and Political class.
5. Ethnology, including particular History, comparative Philology, Antiquities, &c.
6. Statistics and Political Economy.
7. Mental and Moral Philosophy.
8. A Survey of the Political Events of the World, Penal Reform, &c.

<<<Page: 159>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 158 Ill. Literature and the Fine Arts.
9. Modern Literature.
10. The Fine Arts, and their application to the Useful Arts. 11. Bibliography.
12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.
Another branch of the plan for the diffusion of knowledge contem-
lates the offer of premiums for the best essays on given subjects.
The publications of the Institution, of whatever form, are proposed to be presented to all the colleges, and to the principal libraries and scientific institutions throughout the country, and to be exchanged for the transactions of all scientific and literary societies throughout the world; thus laying the foundation of a valuable library. An adequate number are to be preserved to supply the future demand of new institutions, and the remainder are to be placed on sale at a price so low as to render them generally accessible.
For carrying out the plan thus sketched for increasing and diffusing knowledge, the Regents propose to appropriate one half of the income of their fund. The remainder is to be expended in the formation and maintenance of a library, a collection of instruments of research im all branches of experimental science, and a museum.
This partition of the income of the fund is stated to be ‘* a compromise between the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowledge.”
A library is one of the objects contemplated in the act of Congress establishing the Board for the management of the trust. It is requisite for carrying out the plan above proposed. At the same time, it will be observed that the distribution, by exchange, of the publications, which that scheme of operations will call into existence, will rapidly provide the Institution, without further expense, with the class of works, often of a costly character, which are most directly important as the means of advancing and diffusing positive knowledge. It is accordingly in these that the Secretary proposes to lay the foundations of the library, forming, 1. A complete collection of the transactions and proceedings of all the learned societies in the world; and, 2. A similar collection of all the current periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing the contemplated periodical reports.
In the next place, it is proposed to procure by preference those books which are not found in the other public libraries of the United States ; regarding the want of them as one of more urgency to be supplied than that of a symmetrical and proportionate collection of books in all the departments of science. Such a library as the plan proposes may be fairly regarded as an important instrument for the increase and diffusion of knowledge.
The collection of scientific apparatus and instruments of research is no less needful in the furtherance of the above mentioned plan, which, as it proposes to aid individuals in the prosecution of important re-
searches, may often do so most effectually by the loan of the instru-
ments required for a particular investigation. ‘They will also be needed,
especially at Washington, for carrying out, under the most advantageous circumstances, the various experimental investigations in Physics al

<<<Page: 160>>>

ready pursued by the Secretary with such credit to himself, and such honor to the scientific character of the country.
The Smithsonian Institution is also to be entrusted with the conservation of a National Museum, Congress having, by a clause in the Act of Incorporation, devolved upon it the charge of the immense collections belonging to the public, of which those brought home by Captain Wilkes from the Exploring Expedition form the greater portion, but which are daily increasing from many other sources. These collections, When a proper and convenient place shall have been prepared for their reception and preservation, are likely to accumulate with still greater rapidity in time to come.
While there is an obvious propriety and convenience in thus entrusting the care of the public collections to the officers of the Smithsonian Institution, it will not, the Committee trust, be forgotten by Congress that the income of the Smithsonian bequest—moderate at best, and consecrated to an object distinct as it is elevated—ought not to be burdened with the cost of constructing an edifice for the reception and exhibition of the public collections, or of their preservation and care. These objects would alone absorb a considerable portion of the fund. If drawn upon to carry them into effect, its efficiency for any other purpose will be seriously diminished, if not altogether destroyed.
The plan also contemplates a museum of the fine arts as well asa scientific apparatus. It proposes to procure ‘casts of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture” and ‘ models of antiquities.”” While it is undoubtedly true that a gallery of this description would find an appropriate place in an establishment devoted to the increase and diffusion of knowledge in its broadest sense, the Committee cannot but hope that the ¢mmedzate execution of this part of the plan will not be attempted; but that it will be deferred till other objects of more decided utility have been provided for, and until a surplus of unappropriated funds shall have accrued.
The Academy will perceive that the most novel and important feature of the plan is that which proposes to insure the publication of memoirs and treatises on impostant subjects of investigation, and to offer pecuniary encouragement to men of talent and attainment to engage in scientific research. It is believed that no Institution in the country effects either of these objects to any great extent. The nearest approach to it is the practice of the Academy and other Philosophical Societies, of publishing the memoirs accepted by them. These, however, can rarely be works of great compass. No systematic plan of compensation for the preparation of works of scientific research is known by the Committee to have been attempted in this or any other country. It can scarcely be doubted that an important impulse would be given by the Institution, in this way, to the cultivation of scientific pursuits: while the extensive and widely ramified system of distribution and exchange by which the publications are to be distributed throughout the United States and the world, would secure them a circulation which works of science could scarcely attain in any other way.
It is an obvious characteristic of this mode of applying the funds of the Jnstitution, that its influence would operate most widely throughout

<<<Page: 161>>>

the country ; that locality would be of comparatively little importance as far as this influence is concerned; and that the Union would beeome, so to say, in this respect, a great school of mutual instruction. The Committee would remark in conclusion, that in a plan of operations of this kind, very much depends upon the activity and intelligence with which it is administered. The characters of the Board of Regents are a sufficient warrant for the prudence and good judgment which will watch over the general interests of the foundation ; while the reputation of the Secretary and his assistant, the librarian, is so well established in their respective departments, as to render any tribute from the Committee entirely superfluous. All which is respectfully submitted by the Committee. EDWARD EVERETT, JARED SPARKS, BENJAMIN PEIRCE, HENRY W. LONGFELLOW, ASA GRAY.
DeEcEMBER 4, 1847.
Read at a meeting of the Academy held December 7, 1847, and aecepted.
Ordered to be communicated to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. O. W. HOLMES,
Recording Secretary.

<<<Page: 162>>>

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian * Institution, giving an account of the operations of the year 1848. Presented December 13, 1849.
GENTLEMEN: By a resolution of the Board of Bowens, at their last annual meeting, | was charged with the execution ie the details of the programme w fel had been] provisionally adopted, and was directed to report annually to the Board the progress made in the execution of the duty assigned to me. In accordance with this resolution, I present the following statement of the operations of the past year.
The programme of the plan of organization of the Institution has been submitted to a number of literary and scientific societies, and in every case has received their unqualified approbation. The principal officers of these societies have expressed a willingness to co-operate with the Smithsonian Institution in carrying out the plans which have been adopted, and it is confidently believed, that as soon as these are fully developed and brought into practical operation, they will meet with general approval.
It was recommended in my last report that the details of the plan should be adopted provisionally, and should be carried into oper ation gradually and cautiously, with such changes, from time to time, as experience might dictate. The Institution is not one of a day, but is designed to endure as long as our government shall exist ; and it is therefore peculiarly important that in the beginning we should proceed
carefully and not attempt to produce immediate effects at the expense of permanent usefulness. The process of increasing knowledge is an extremely slow one, and the value of the results of this part of the plan
cannot be properly realized until some years have elapsed. Independently of these considerations, the financial arrangements adopted by the Board of Regents are such as to prevent the Tall operation of the Institution until tice three years from next March; up to that time more than one half of the income is to be devoted to the erection of the building, and indirectly to the increase of the permanent fund.
It will be recollected that the programme embraces—
Ist. The plan of publishing original memoirs on all branches of knowledge, in a series of quarto Se nase
2d. The institution of original researches under the direction of competent persons.
3d. The publication of a series of reports from year to year, giving an account of the progress of the different branches of knowledge.
4th. The formation of a library and a museum of objects of ae
and art. Publication of original memoirs.
The first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has. been published and partially distributed. It consists of a single memoir on the Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, comprising

<<<Page: 163>>>

the results of extensive original surveys and explorations by E. G. Squier, A. M., and E. H. Davis, M. D. It is illustrated by forty-eight lithographic plates, and by two hundred and seven wood engravings. The mechanical execution of the volume will bear comparison with that of any publication ever issued from the American press.
In the publication of the first volume of the Contributions, the question occurred as to the propriety of securing the copyright to the Institution. I had not an opportunity of conferring with the Executive Committee on this point, and was therefore obliged to settle it on my own responsibility. I concluded that it would be more in accordance with the spirit of the Institution to decide against the copyright. The knowledge which the Smithsonian Institution may be instrumental in presenting to the world should be free to all who are capable of using it. The republication of our papers ought to be considered as an evidence of their importance, and should be encouraged rather than prohibited.
The first memoir occupies an entire volume, and this accidental circumstance has given rise to a misconception of the plan. It has been supposed that each volume of the Smithsonian Contributions is, in like manner, to consist of a separate treatise on a particular subject selected with a view to popular interest. But such is not the case ; each volume will generally contain a number of separate memoirs, on different branches of knowledge, similar to the usual published transactions of learned societies. ‘The only reason why the first volume is occupied with a subject of general interest rather than one on some more abstruse branch of science is, that the memoir it contains was the jirst which was presented of the character prescribed by the plan. No preference is to be given to any branch of knowledge. ‘The only questions to be asked, in considering the acceptance of a memoir, are, whether it is a positive addition to knowledge, resting on original research, and of sufficient importance to merit a place in the Smithsonian Contributions.
The rules adopted for the acceptance of a memoir are the same as those generally followed by learned societies. The memoir is surrendered by the author to the Institution, and no additions or. alterations
_are allowed to be made after it has been submitted to the commission appointed to examine it, unless by their consent. A certain number of copies is presented to the ‘author for distribution, with the privilege of striking off, at his own expense, additional copies for sale ; which in most cases, particularly when the memoir is of popular interest, will be all the remuneration expected by the author.
From what has been said, it will be evident that the papers published in the Contributions cannot generally be of a popular nature. The popular effects to be produced by the Institution are principally those which may be attained by the reports on the progress of the dif ferent branches of knowledge, and by the occasional publications in connexion with these of separate treatises on some subject of special interest.
Applications have been made for the first volume of the Contributions from many academies and private institutions; and were our means sufficient, we would be pleased to supply all demands of this

<<<Page: 164>>>

. kind. But this is obviously impossible, for they alone would exhaust all the income of the Institution.
eager have been made for the publication of the second Volume of the Contributions, and a sufficient number of memoirs have been already accepted, or are in preparation, to furnish the materials. Five of these are on astronomical subjects, and afford as important additions to this science as have ever been made to it in this country. Two of them relate to investigations on the new planet Neptune, which are only second in value to the original discovery of this distant member of our system. Abstracts of these have been given to the world, — and have been received with general approbation. A third is a determination of the zodiac of ihet asteroids, or the zone in the heavens to which the positions of these small planets are confined. This paper ig of much practical importance in facilitating the researches now in progress in different parts of the world relative to the nature of these fragments (as they would seem to be) of a large planet between Jupiter and Mars. It may be at once determined, by an inspection of the table annexed to this paper, whether any star mapped in an old catalogue, and now no longer to be found in the same place, can possibly be one of the asteroids. A fourth paper is an account of anew comet, the discovery of which by an American lady is one of the first additions to science of this kind, so far as I am informed, ever made in this country. The fifth memoir is an account of the Georgetown Observatory, the instruments with which it is furnished, the mode of using them which has been adopted, and the results of the observations which have been made. An important paper is also in process of preparation for the same volume on the gigantic fossil cetacean remains which are found in the southern and western States of the Union.
Other papers are in progress which partake of the character of original researches, since they are, in part, at least, prepared at the expense and under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. They will be mentioned under the next head.
In a few cases, memoirs have been presented which, though exhibiting research and considerable originality, are not of a character to warrant their adoption as parts of our volumes of Contributions to positive knowledge. The rule given in the programme has been rigidly adhered to, viz. to decline accepting i any paper on physical science which consists merely of an unverified hypothesis, however ingenious and plausible such an hypothesis may be. A law of nature is not sus ceptible of a logical demonstration, like that of a proposition of geometry, but is proved by its fitness to explain old, and to predict new, phenomena. The verification of an hypothesis, as we have stated in the last report, consists in deducing consequences from it, and ascertaining, by a direct appeal to observation or experiment, the truth or
falsity of these deductions. Any paper, therefore, on material science which does*not contain original experiments and observations
cannot be admitted as a part of the Contributions to Knowledge. The rule we have adopted-is in accordance with the practice BF cautious investigators. The law of universal gravitation existed for several , years | the mind of Newton as a well conditioned hypothesis before
it was given to the world as a verified and established theory. Besides

<<<Page: 165>>>

this, the rules of logic which are employed in discussing the questions of ordinary life are not applicable to the precision of scientific inquiry. The materials in this case, to borrow an expression of an author of celebrity, ‘¢ must be weighed in the scale of the assayer, and not, liké the mixed commodities of the market, on the weight-bridge of common opinion and. general usage.”
It has been objected to our publishing original memoirs, that in so doing we are merely performing the duties of a learned society. The answer is, that the learned societies in this country have not the means, except in a very limited degree, of publishing memoirs which require expensive illustrations, much less of assisting to defray the cost of the investigations by which the results have been obtained. The real workingmen in the line of original research hail this part of the plan as a new era in the history of American science. ‘The assistance which the Institution will thus render to original research will occupy the place of the governmental patronage of other countries, and will enable true genius, wherever found, to place its productions before the world free of cost, and in a manner most favorable for securing due attention and proper appreciation.
From our experience thus far, I am convinced that, circumscribed as is the class of memoirs accepted by the Institution, we shall have no want of materials to fill at least one quarto volume a year. There has been in our country within the last few years a remarkable increase in the attention given to original research, not only in material science, but in every branch of knowledge susceptible of addition. And this is evinced by the character and variety of the papers which have been presented for publication. The wide difference between the increase of knowledge and its diffusion, is beginning to be seen and appreciated, and the time is not far distant when we shall be as distinguished for our additions to science as for its diffusion and application. The reyolutions of Europe are not only sending to our shores the choicest specimens of art, but also men of reputation and skill in scientific investigation. Besides this, the present state of France is attended with such an interruption of the ordinary means of scientific publication, that the manuscript volumes on natural history of one of the most distinguished professors of the Jardin des Plantes are offered to us for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions for no remuneration, save a few copies for distribution among friends. Were the Institution fully in operation I should not hesitate, in accordance with the liberality which should characterize an establishment founded on the bequest of a foreigner, to recommend the adoption of these memoirs for publication at the expense of the Institution, and perhaps we might now distribute them through several of our volumes and finish the publication of them in the course of a few years.
Original researches.
The second part of the plan consists in instituting original researches, the results of which are to be published, with the other memoirs, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. Under this head may be first mentioned the publication of the tables ordered at the last meeting

<<<Page: 166>>>

of the Board, for facilitating the calculation of the time of appearance of occultations of the fixed stars by the moon. The object of these tables is to assist in the accurate determination of the longitude of important places on the continent of North America, and their value has been attested by the recommendation of some of the most distinguished astronomers of this country. The accurate establishment of the longitude of any place renders it a landmark to the surveyor, the geographer, and the astronomer, and furnishes a most important element in determining its relative position on the map of the country. The observation of occultations affords one of the most ready means of solving this most difficult practical problem. ‘The tables were calculated at the expense and under the direction of the Institution, and were sent to all persons known to be interested in practical astronomy, with a request that the observations which might be made in connexion with them might be sent to the Institution for computation, or published in some accessible journal. These tables have been so well received by astronomers, that, with the concurrence of the Executive Committee, I have ventured to order the computation of a set of the same kind on a more extensive scale for the year 1849. Copies of these will be sent to United States officers on the coast of Oregon and Califormia, and will be distributed among all the other observers in this country. They will be found of manok practical importance to the corps engaged by the general government in establishing the boundary lines of our new posse ssions. It is hoped that the remuneration allowed for the labor of computing these tables will not be considered extravagant, when it 1s mentioned that it has oc cupied the whole time of Mr. Downes for nearly six months, at the rate of eight hours a day.
With the concurrence of the Executive Committee, I have also published an epheme ris of the planet Neptune, or in other words, a table indicating its position in the heavens during each day of the present year, by “which those interested in astronomy are enabled readily to find the place of the new planet in the heavens, or the direction in which the telescope must be poimted in order to observe it. Copies of this have been sent to all the principal astronomers in the world, and it has received the highest commendation. It was calculated by Mr. S. C. Walker from the orbit deduced by himself, a full account of which forms one of the papers of the second volume of the Contributions. It is the first accurate ephemeris which has ever appeared of this newly discovered member of our solar system.
An appropriation of one thousand dollars was made at the last meeting of the Board for the commencement of a series of meteorological observations, particularly with reference to the phenomena of American storms. According to the estimate of Prof. Loomis, appended to my last report, three thousand dollars will be required for the purpose of reducing this part of our plan to practice. It is hoped that one thousand dollars in addition will be appropriated this year, and an equal sum the next, so that, at the end of that time, we shall be prepared for full operation. At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for meteorology under the direction of the Secretar y of the Navy and in order that the observations thus established may not inteniead with those undertaken by the Smithsonian Institution, that officer has

<<<Page: 167>>>

directed Professor Espy to co-operate with the Secretary of the Institution. .
It is contemplated to establish three classes of observers among those who are disposed to join in this enterprise. One class, without instruments, to observe the face of the sky as to its clearness, the extent of cloud, the direction and force of wind, the beginning and ending of rain, snow, &c. <A second class, furnished with thermometers, who, besides making the observations above mentioned, will record variations of temperature. ‘The third class, furnished with full sets of instruments, to observe all the elements at present deemed important in the science of meteorology. It is believed that much valuable information may be obtained in this way with reference to the extent, duration, and passage of storms over the country, though the observer may be possessed of no other apparatus than a simple wind-vane.
With the instruments owned by private individuals, with those at the several military stations, and with the supply of the deficiency by the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, it is believed that observations can be instituted at important points over the whole United States, and that, with the observations which we can procure from Mexico and the British possessions of North America, data will be furnished for important additions to our knowledge of meteorological phenomena. As a beginning to this extended system, six sets of instruments have been forwarded to the coast of Oregon and California, for the purpose of establishing periodical observations on the western side of the Rocky mountains. Also, a set has been forwarded to Bent’s Fort, and another to Santa Fé. Circulars have been prepared and will shortly be issued for the purpose of ascertaining the number and locality of all those who, with or without instruments, are willing to join in the enterprise. I am indebted to Prof. Coffin, of Lafayette College, for a list of all persons, as far as they are known, who have heretofore been accustomed to make meteorological observations in North America, which will be of much importance in our future investigations relative to this subject.
As a part of the system of meteorology, it is proposed to employ, as far as our funds will permit, the magnetic telegraph in the investigation of atmospherical phenomena. By this means, not only notice of the approach of a storm may be given to distant observers, but also attention may be directed to particular phenomena, which can only be properly studied by the simultaneous observations of persons widely separated from each other. For example, the several phases presented by a thunderstorm, or by the aurora borealis, may be telegraphed to a distance, and the synchronous appearances compared and recorded in stations far removed from each other. Also, by the same means, ¢ single observatory, at which constant observations are made during the whole 24 hours, may give notice to all persons along the telegraphic lines, of the occurrence of interesting meteorological phenomena, and thus simultaneous observations be secured. The advantage to agriculture and commerce to be derived from a knowledge of the approach of a storm, by means of the telegraph, has been frequently referred to of late in the public journals. And this, we think, is a subject deserving the attention of the general government.
Under the head of researches, I may mention that several papers are

<<<Page: 168>>>

in preparation, under the direction and partly at the expense of the Institution. The first of these relates to a series of valuable observa~ tions on the temperature and velocity of the Gulf stream, the author of which the science of our country was called to mourn while he was engaged in an important public service. ‘Fhe observations are now in progress of reduction, and the results will furnish an interesting memoir for the next volume of our Contributions.
The drawings and engravings of a paper on the botany of Oregon are also in progress; and as a small advance has been made to assist in completing these, the memoir will fall under the head of original researches, in part conducted by the Institution.
In the last report, it was mentioned that a magnetic survey of the mineral regions of the northern lakes had been added to the geological and mineralogical survey, the results of which were to be submitted to the Smithsonian Institution. An appropriation was made by the Seeretary of the Treasury during the past summer for a continuation of this survey; but on account of the lateness of the season at which the arrangement was made, the person. to whom the work was entrusted was Aa enabled to engage in it this year. Operations, however, will probably be commenced as soon as practicable, next spring.
There is in the Land Office a large collection of facts relative to the
variation of the compass, which have been derived from the observations of the public surveyors, who are directed in all cases to note the variation of the needle from the true meridian, at the several stations of their surveys. The observations are made with an instrument called the solar compass, which probably gives the variation at each place within a quarter of a degree of the truth. ‘The number of these observations, it is believed, will make up in a considerable degree for their want of greater precision; and from the whole, the lines of declination may be determined with considerable accuracy. The Secretary of the Treasury has liberally directed that all the matter relating to this subject in the Land Office may be placed at my disposal, and Mr. Wilson has undertaken to present the whole in a series of maps, the publication of which in the Contributions cannot fail to be received as an interesting addition to terrestrial magnetism.
Among the objects of research enumerated in the programme, is the analysis of soils and plants; but it is the policy of the Smithsonian Institution, in order to employ its funds most effectually in the way of creasing and diffusing knowledge, not. to engage in any operation which could be as w ell. if not better carried on under the direction and with the funds of another institution. In accordance with this, an arrangement has been made with the Commissioner of Patents that the two Institutions may not interfere with each other; and as, at the request of Mr. Burke, an appropriation has been made by Congress for a series of experiments on the above-mentioned subjects, the Smithsoman Institution will, therefore, for the present abandon this field of research for others less effectually occupied.
I may also mention in this connexion, that the Smithsonian Institution has been the means of starting an important literary enterprise, intended to facilitate the study of the history and literature of our country. Mr. Henry Stevens, who has been engaged for a number of years as the

<<<Page: 169>>>

agent in this country of the British Museum, and other European libraries, has commenced the preparation of a bibliographical work, comprising a description of all books relative to, or published in, America prior to the year 1700, and indicating not only the contents and value of the books, but also the principal libraries in this and other countries where they are to be found. The preparation of a work of this kind will be in accordance with that part of our plan which contemplates rendering the Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge, and will have a direct influence in promoting the objects of the various historical societies which are now established in almost every State of the Union, and in bringing the Institution into friendly relations with them. A certificate has been given to Mr. Stevens to the effect that this work, if found, by a commission to whom it shall be referred, properly executed, will be accepted for publication as part of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Assured by this certificate that the work will be properly executed, a number of gentlemen and institutions, whose libraries will be examined and referred to, have liberally subscribed to defray the necessary expense of its preparation. With this encouragement, Mr. Stevens has started for Europe to commence investigations in foreign libraries. To satisfy ourselves as to the importance of a work of this kind, a circular letter was addressed to a number of individuals distinguished for their knowledge of such subjects, and the answer in all cases was highly favorable to the scheme. Some of these answers I have given in the appendix, together with the details of the plan of the work as proposed by Mr. Stevens.
At the last session of Congress an appropriation of $5,000 was made, on motion of Mr. Stanton, for a series of astronomical observations in the southern hemisphere, for the purpose of a new determination of the parallax of the planets, and consequently of their distance from the sun, by simultaneous observations on the planets Venus and Mars, made at places situated north and south of the equator. This appropriation has been found inadequate to furnish all the instruments required; and inasmuch as the expedition should not be undertaken unless the observers are provided with all the aids which the latest improvements in modern science can furnish, and since, to wait for an additional appropriation from Congress would cause the delay of a whole year, Lieutenant Gilliss has applied to the Institution to purchase and lend to him an achromatic telescope, which, if not paid for by an additional appropriation from the government, will, after its return from the south, form part of the apparatus of the Institution. This instrument will cost about $2,000, to be paid for at the end of three years. The Executive Committee, to whom I applied for counsel on this subject, agreed with me in opinion, that this was a proper occasion for the application of the funds of the Institution to the promotion of science. The instrument has accordingly been ordered to be constructed by an American artist, and to be accepted only in case its performance shall meet the approval of a commission of practical astronomers appointed to examine it.
The position on the coast of Chili, to be occupied by the southern observers, is peculiarly favorable to the study of the facts connected with one of the most mysterious and interesting phenomena of terrestrial physics—namely, the earthquake. Lieutenant Gilliss has been re

<<<Page: 170>>>

quested to give particular attention to this subject, and for the purpose of facilitating his inquiries a seismometer, or instrument for measuring the intensity and direction of the earthwave, has been ordered at the expense of the Institution, to be placed in charge of the expedition during its absence. ‘The cost of this instrument is not yet ascertained ; it will, however, not exceed one hundred and fifty dollars.
I think it highly probable that these instruments will be paid for by the general government. The liberal spirit which dictated the original appropriation will, I doubt not, complete the outfit by the addition of a sum sufficient to defray all the necessary expenses.*
Under the head of original researches, I may call to the Regents the fact of my having been directed to continue my own investigations on physical science, and to report occasionally to the Board my progress therein. In the course of last year, I found an opportunity while at Princeton, to commence a series of investigations on radiant heat, which apparently produced some results of interest, but which my subsequent engagements have prevented me from fully developmg. I was also directed to cause to be made a series of experiments on the economical value of building material. It will give me much pleasure to obey this instruction of the Board as soon as a place in the Smithsonian building and the necessary apparatus are procured for properly conducting the research.
Reports on the progress of knowledge.
The Smithsonian Contributions are intended to consist of entirely original additions to the sum of human knowledge, and are to be principally exchanged for the transactions of learned societies, and to be distributed among public institutions. The Reports, on the other hand, are to be of a more popular kind, and are intended for as wide a distribution as the funds of the Institution or the means of publishing them may permit. They will give an account of the progress of the different branches of knowledge in every part of the world, and will supply a desideratum in English literature.
The objects of the Smithsonian Institution are not educational. The press in our country already teems with elementary works on the difterent branches of knowledge, and to expend our funds in adding to these, would be to dissipate them without perceptible effect. Neither do we believe that the distribution of penny magazines, or tracts on the rudiments of science, can ever supersede the labors of the school-master. Asa general rule, knowledge presented in a fragmentary form, can only be useful to minds well stored with general principles, to which the isolated facts may be referred; and knowledge, both fragmentary and diluted, is almost worthless, even in the way of popular distribution. The elementary principles of science may be systematically taught to a certain extent in common schools, and the reports we intend to publish will be found of value to the teacher, and through him to the pupil, as well as interesting to the general reader. While these reports are rendered as free as possible from technical terms, they will treat of
* Since writing this report, the appropriation has besn made by Congress.

<<<Page: 171>>>

subjects requiring attention and thought to understand them. We think it better that they should be above rather than below the average intelligence of the country; that they should start from a given epoch, and in most cases should be preceded by a brief exposition of the previous state of each subject.
Arrangements have been made for commencing some of these preliminary reports, as well as reports on the state of our knowledge of special subjects ; among these are— :
J. A report on the present state of chemistry as applied to agriculture.
2. A report on the forest-trees of North America, giving their economical uses, their mode of propagation, and their history.
3. A report on the present state of our knowledge of lightning and the best means of guarding against accidents from its effects. °
4, A report on the late discoveries in astronomy.
5. A report on meteorological instruments, with practical observations and directions with reference to the use of them. :
In connexion with this last report, I may mention that a proposition has been made to the Institution by Professor Guyot, of the University of Neufchatel, relative to the importance of commencing at this epoch, and at the beginning of the labors of the Smithsonian Institution, the adoption of the centigrade scale of the thermometer. This is a subject, indeed, worthy of the attention of the Regents. It should, however, be discussed with caution, and be decided only after due deliberation.
The first idea of reports on the progress of knowledge, with which we are acquainted, is due to the Emperor Napoleon, who called upon the French Academy of Sciences, to present him with accounts of the progress of the different branches of knowledge within a given period. Until within the last few years the only regular reports of the kind were those presented to the Swedish Academy. Since that time, however, a series of annual reports on chemistry have been commenced by an association ef gentlemen in France, and also a series on the different branches of material science, by the Physical Society of Berlin. The several numbers of the latter are now in progress of translation, in order to furnish in part the materials for the reports to be prepared for the Smithsonian Institution during the coming year.
Although comparatively little has been done in our country in the way of original research, yet it might be important that the Institution should call tor the preparation of a report on the history of the progress of original science in America down to the end of the present half century. This report would exhibit a constant increase in the number and importance of the researches made in our country, and might be found of much service in giving due credit to the labors of those who have been really engaged in the advance of knowledge among us. A report of this kind, however, would require the association of a number of persons combining literary with scientific attainments.
Occasional publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.
This part of the plan of organization requires to be carried into operation with much caution. It is liable to much abuse, unless the pub

<<<Page: 172>>>

lication be restricted to a well defined range, viz: to scientific reports on the present state of knowledge of a given subject, to precede the periodical reports; to translations from foreign languages of papers of general interest ; and occasionally, perhaps, the exposition of a subject on which, at a particular time, popular knowledge is required. We should be careful not to establish a precedent which may lead us into difficulty, in the way of declining the publication of works which may be presented to us. Scarcely a week passes in which the Institution is not requested to publish some essay or compilation, and the funds which can be devoted to all our publications would not suffice for one half of those offered of this kind. The only work of this class which has yet been attempted by the Institution, is one entitled, ‘“¢ Fints on Public Architecture,’ under the direction of the Building Committee. Although the Secretary’s name was mentioned in the resolution authorizing the publication of this treatise, yet he has thus far had no connexion with it. The publication was authorized before the details of the plan of organization were fully settled. It was at first intended merely as a report of the Building Committee, giving an account of the plans submitted, and the one adopted for the Smithsonian building, together with a report of the investigations of the committee with regard to the materials of construction, &c. It was afterwards changed into the form of a regular treatise, in order that it might be referred to a commission of persons chosen to examine it, and that, the Institution might thus be relieved from the responsibility of pronouneing upon its fitness for publication. I think it important that, besides the preface of this work, a full account of its origin should be given in an introductory advertisement.
Library.
During the past year the library has continued to increase by donations, and by the books which have been deposited by publishers, in accordance with the 10th section of the act establishing the Institution. The requirements of this act are, however, not strictly observed by all publishers ; and I would direct the attention of the Board to a special report of the Assistant Secretary with reference to this pomt. 'The whole subject will probably come before Congress during its present session.
Professor Jewett, the Assistant Secretary, has been industriously engaged during the past year in procuring statistics of the libraries of the United States, and in digesting plans for the details of the library of the Institution, and I beg leave to refer you to the able and interesting report of the results of his labors, herewith submitted. A considerable portion of the copies of the Smithsonian Contributions will be presented to public institutions which publish transactions, and which are able to present us in return with additions to our library. ‘The volume now in process of distribution has been preceded by a circular requesting exchanges of the works of all institutions which issue transactions and catalogues of all libraries to which the Contributions may be sent.

<<<Page: 173>>>

Preparation for lecturing.
The plan of organization contemplates a series of free lectures, particularly during the session of Congress. ‘These will be commenced as soon as the building is ready for the purpose. This part of the plan also cannot be put into full operation until after the building is completed. A number of gentlemen have consented to favor us with their services. Men of talents, however, cannot be expected to leave their homes and subject themselves to the expense of visitng Washington, and to the trouble of preparing a course of lectures, without a proper remuneration. It will be necessary, therefore, that an annual appropriation be made for this purpose. ‘The amount, however, must necessarily be small until the building is completed, or until all the interest of the fund can be devoted to the primary objects of the Institution. Besides this, the lecture-room in the east wing, now finished, will scarcely hold more than five hundred persons, while the one in the main building is intended to accommodate twice as many.
Donation.
Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia, having resigned the chair of chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania, which he had filled with honor to himself and his country for nearly thirty years, has presented to the Smithsonian Institution the instruments of research and _ illustration, collected and used by himself during his long and successful scientific career. Many of these instruments are the invention of the donor, are connected with his reputation, and belong to the history of the science of our day. The gift is important, not only on account of its intrinsic value, but also as establishing a precedent of liberality, which we trust will be frequently observed by others, as well as being an expression of Dr. Hare’s approbation of the plan and confidence in the stability of the Institution. A number of other donations have been received, of which a list, with the names of the donors, will be given in a subsequent report.
In view of what has been stated in the foregoing report, the Secretary trusts that the Board of Regents will be satisfied, if ever they had any doubts on the subject, that the plan adopted is one well calculated to carry out the benevolent intentions of the donor, of increasing and diffusing knowledge among men; and that a satisfactory answer has been given to the question frequently asked, namely, When is the Institution to begin? It will be seen that it has commenced the most important part of its operations, and the results are now in progress of dissemination in every part of the civilized world.
Respectfully submitted, JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. y:

<<<Page: 174>>>

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1849.
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:
GENTLEMEN: In accordance with the resolution that the Secretary shall present at each annual meeting of the Board of Regents an account ot the operations of the Institution “during the past year, I respectfully submit the following.
Agreeably to the ‘scheme of finance adopted by the Board, the greater portion of all the income of the Smithsonian fund is at present devoted to the erection of the building; and until this is paid for, the money
which can be appropriated to the active operations of the Institution will be comparatively small, not only small in proportion to the demands made upon it, but small in reference to the results which the public generally expect it to produce. It is believed, however, that a proper consideration of the facts presented in the following report will warrant the conclusion, that the Institution, during the past year, has been gradually extending its sphere of usefulness, and successfully bringing into operation the different parts of its plan of organization.
It will be recollected that the several propositions of the programme were adopted provisionally, and it is gratifying to be able to state that experience thus far has indicated no important changes. The general plan has continued to receive the approbation of the enlightened public both in this country and in Europe, and to increase general confidence in the power of the Institution to confer important benefits on our country and the world.
In presenting the different operations of the Institution, I shall adopt, as in my last report, the principal divisions of the programme :
1st. Publication of memoirs in quarto volumes, consisting of positive additions to knowledge.
2d. Institution of original researches, under the direction of competent persons.
dd. The publication of a series of reports, giving the present state and progress of different branches of knowledge.
4th. Formation of a library and museum of objects of nature and art.
Sth. Lectures.
Publication of Memoirs.
Agreeably to the plan of the Institution, these memoirs are mtended to embody the results of researches which could not otherwise be readily published, and are to be distributed to societies, public libraries, and other institutions. An account of the first memoir Was given in the last report. It relates to the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley, and occupies an entire volume. It has been presented, as far as opportunity would permit, to the principal literary and scientific societies of the world, to all the colleges and larger libraries of this country, and has everywhere

<<<Page: 175>>>

been received with much commendation. All the societies from which we have as yet heard, have declared their willingness to co-operate with the Institution, and to give us their publications in exchange, from which source our library has already been enriched with valuable additions. :
It is to be regretted that our means would not permit us to distribute the first volume more liberally than we have done, and that the price put upon the copies offered for sale has placed them beyond the reach of many persons desirous of obtaining them. This arose trom the fact, that in order to remunerate the authors for the expense and labor bestowed on the memoir, they were allowed to strike off from the types and plates af the Institution an edition to be sold for their own benefit. 'To avoid risk of loss, the edition was a small one, and the price put at ten dollars. An occurrence of this kind will not happen again; for, although it would be desirable to pay authors for their contributions, yet it is now found that materials will be offered, free of all cost, more than sufficient to exhaust the portion of the income which can be devoted to publications.
In printing the future volumes it will be advisable to strike off an extra number of copies for sale on account of the Institution, and to dispose of those for little more than the mere cost of press-work and paper.
'The second volume of Contributions is now in the press, and will consist of a number of memoirs which have been submitted to competent judges and found worthy of a place in the Smithsonian publications. In this volume we have adopted the plan of printing each memoir with a separate title and paging. The object of this is to enable us to distribute extra copies of each memoir separately, and also to furnish the author with a number of copies regularly paged for his own use. It will likewise enable us to classify the memoirs according to subjects.
The following is a brief account of the memoirs contained in the second volume, so far as they have been reported on by the commissioners to whom they have been submitted:
1. A memoir on the planet Neptune, by Sears C. Walker.—An abstract of this memoir has been published in the proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, and has received the approbation of the scientific world. It presents the several steps of the discovery of an orbit which has enabled Mr. Walker to compute the place of the new planet with as much precision as that of any of the planets which have been known from the earliest times.* Starting from the observations of the motion of the planet during a period of about four months, Mr. Walker calculated an empirical orbit, which enabled him to trace its path among the stars of the celestial vault through its whole revolution of 166 years. He was thus enabled to carry its position backward until it fell among a cluster of stars accurately mapped by Lalande towards the close of the last century; and, after a minute and critical investigation, he was led to conclude that one of the stars observed by Lalande on the night of May
*It is proper to state that a part of the researches given in this memoir was made during the author’s connexion with the National Observatory, under the direction of Lieutenant Maury. An account of these will probably soon be published in the next volume of the records of operations of this observatory.

<<<Page: 176>>>

10, 1795, was the planet Neptune. This conclusion was rendered almost certainty by the observation, made on the first clear night, that all the stars in the cluster above mentioned were found in place, except the one previously fixed upon as the new planet. Some hesitation was created, however, by noting that the missing star in Lalande’s maps was marked as doubtful. In order to settle this difficulty, the original manuscript of the astronomer deposited in the Observatory of Paris was referred to. It was then found that Lalande had twice observed the same star; and not finding the right ascension and declination each time the same, and not dreaming it was a planet, he selected one of the
observations for publication, marking the position indicated doubtful. The planet had moved during the interval of observation, and thus produced the discrepancy. By allowing for the movement during the time elapsed, the two observations precisely agree. There could, therefore, be no longer any doubt that this star, observed and mapped filty years ago as a fixed star, was in reality the planet Neptune. Mr. Walker, availing himself of this discovery, had now a series of observations embracing not a few months of the motion of the planet, bat which carried it back fifty years. From these data he was enabled to deduce a pure elliptical orbit, or one which the body would describe were there no other planets inthe system. This orbit has been investigated by another of our countrymen in a series of profound and beautiful researches, adding much to our knowledge both of Neptune and Uranus. I allude to the labors of Professor Peirce, of Cambridge.
It is well known that the planet Neptune was discovered by mathematical deductions from the perturbations observed in Uranus, and that Leverrier and Adams, the independent authors of this discovery, not ouly pointed out the direction in which the unseen planet was to be found, but also, from a@ priori considerations, gave the dimensions, form, and position of the orbit it describes around the sun. The direction indicated was the true one, but the elements of the orbit were widely different from those subsequently found to belong to the actual orbit of the planet. Professor Peirce submitted the data used by Leverrier and Adams to a new and critical examination, and succeeded in discovering the cause of their error, and of verifying the conclusions of Mr. Walker. He afterwards proceeded to consider the inverse problem, viz: that of deducing the perturbations which Neptune ought to produce in the planet Uranus. His final results gave a perfect explanation of all the anomalies in the motions of Uranus, and furnished the data, for the first time since its discovery in 1781, for correct tables for determining its position in the heavens. Professor Peirce also investigated the action of all the other planets on Neptune, and his results enar bled Mr. Walker, by applying them to his elliptical orbit, to compare the actual with the calculated place of the planet. This led toa further correction of the elliptical orbit, and a more perfect table of calculated places. In this way, by a series of profound and beautiful investigations, alternately combining the data of observation with theoretical considerations, these two as‘ronomers have perfected our knowledge of the motion of the most distant planets of our system, and furnished the means of giving their past and future position through all time. The
details of Mr. Peirce’s paper have not yet been prepared for the press.

<<<Page: 177>>>

They will probably be given in due time to the world as a part of the Smithsonian Contributions.
The investigations mentioned in the foregoing account have been attended with very laborious arithmetical calculations. A small appropriation has been made to defray, in part, the expense of these. Indeed, without the aid thus given, the discoveries we have related would scarcely have been made—at least at this time, and in our country.
2. The next memoir is An account of the discovery of a Comet by Miss Maria Mitchell, of Nantucket, with its approximate orbit, calculated by herself. The honor of this discovery has been duly awarded to the author. A medal has been presented to her by the King of Denmark, and the comet itself is now known to astronomers in every part of the world by her name. From the peculiarities of the case, the Executive Committee recommended that a small premium be presented to Miss Mitchell.
3. The third memoir is On a new method of solving Cubic Equations, by Professor Strong, of New Brunswick, New Jersey ; a purely mathematical paper, which has been pronounced an interesting addition to that branch of science.
4. The fourth memoir is A contribution to the Physical Geography of the United States. It presents a section, from actual surveys, of the descent of the bed of the Ohio river from its source, in the State of New York, to its mouth, on the Mississippi. By a series of observations and elaborate calculations, the author exhibits the amount of water which passed down the river during a period of eleven years prior to 1849. This, compared with the amount of rain which fell during the same time on the surface drained by the river, gives a series of interesting results in reference to evaporation.
It also contains a proposition for improving the navigation of the Ohio, founded upon data given in the preceding part of the memoir. Whatever may be the result of the plan here proposed, this memoir has been recommended for publication as a valuable addition to the physieal geography of the United States. The author is Charles Ellet, jr., the celebrated engineer of the wire bridges over the Niagara and Ohio rivers. Another memoir is promised by the same author, which will be a continuation of the same subject.
5. The fifth memoir is contributed by Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia, and is intended to elucidate the remarkable phenomena exhibited at the great fire in the city of New York on the 19th of July, 1846, during which two hundred and thirty houses were destroyed, containing merchandise amounting in value to sixty-two millions of dollars. ‘A series of detonations, successively increasing in loudness, were followed by a final explosion, which tore in pieces the building in which it took place, threw down several houses in its vicinity, and forced in the fronts of the houses on the opposite side of the street.””. These effects were attributed to gunpowder, though the owner of the building in which the explosion occurred declared that none of this article was present, but that the house contained a large quantity of nitre, in connexion with merchandise of a combustible nature.
This memoir contains a series of investigations relative to the explosions which may be produced by heated nitre in connexion with carbon

<<<Page: 178>>>

aceous matters. The author shows, by numerous experiments, that explosions of a violent kind can be produced by forcibly bringing into coniact at a high temperature, nitre, and substances of an indlannndole character. It falso contains several new experiments on the combustion of gunpowder under different cireumstances.
6. The sixth memoir is On the Ancient Monuments of the State of New York, by E. G. Squier, and may be regarded as a continuation of the memoir by Squier and Davis on the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley. The expense of the explorations which form the basis of this memoir was two hundred dollars, one half of which was defrayed by the members of the Historical Society of New York, and the remainder by this Institution.
7. Another memoir is by Professor Secchi, a young Italian of much ingenuity and learning, a member of Georgetown College. It consists of a new mathematical investigation of the reciprocal action of two galvanic currents on each other, and of the action of a current on the pole of a magnet. It begins with the assumption that the force between the elements of the currents and the magnet is inversely as the square of the distance, and directly as the sine of the inclination, and then presents the mathematical inferences which legitimately flow from these data. ‘The deductions are of such a nature that the author has been able to verify them by means of well devised experiments, and the results accord as nearly with the deductions as the complex nature of the subject will admit. The investigations involve the mathematical theory of the galvanometer, and the experiments furnish much interesting and useful information, aside from the principal object of the memoir, particularly on the comparative value of different kinds of galvanic batteries.
8. The next paper is by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Harvard University, and is entitled The Classification of Insects upon Embryological Data. It gives an account of a series of new and interesting facts observed by t the author relative to the metamorphosis of insects, which have an important bearing on general questions in zoology, and which will probably lead to the arrangement of these animals according to a new system of classification, founded upon more definite principles than those heretofore adopted.
9. The next is a memoir by Dr. R. W. Gibbes, on the Mosasaurus and some new allied genera of the gigantic hzards which formerly inhabited our planet, and of which the remains are now found in different parts of the United States, particularly in the marl beds of various parts of the country. This is an interesting addition to paleontology, and has received a favorable report from fhe commission to whom it was referred.
Researches.
The programme of organization contemplates the establishment of researches, under the direction of suitable persons, the expense to be borne in whole or in part by the Institution. In the last report it was mentioned that a telescope and other apparatus had been ordered for
Lieutenant Gilliss in his astronomical expedition to — and that, with

<<<Page: 179>>>

out this assistance, the expedition would have been delayed a year. I am now, however, happy to state that the expense of these instruments has since been paid by an appropriation of Congress; and the Institution has thus been the means of promoting the objects of the expedition without any expenditure of its income. Certain improvements in astronomical instruments, however, have been made since the departure of Lieutenant Gilliss which would much facilitate his observations, and enable him to do much more with his small number of assistants; and it may be well for the Institution to furnish him with instruments of this kind.
Under the head of researches it may also be mentioned that, during the past year, we have caused to be computed, at the expense of the Institution, an ephemeris of Neptune, giving the position of the planet in the heavens from August 4, 1846, to February 4, 1848, and also in the last half years of 1848 and 1849. ‘This ephemeris is based on the orbit of Neptune established by Mr. Walker and corrected by the perturbations of the planet Neptune by the action of Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, as deduced fiom the mathematical investigations of Professor Peirce, of Harvard University.
We have distributed copies of this ephemeris to all persons known to us who are interested in practical astronomy, not only in this country
but in Europe. It has been received with high conimendation, and is p 5
found to give the actual place of the planet in the heavens within the limits of a few tenths of a second of arc; indeed, the coincidence of the calculated and observed places is so marked, that, were the actual planet of the heavens and that of the ephemeris to be considered as a double star, they would have so close a proximity that no telescope yet constructed could separate them.
Occultations for 1850.
A set of tables in continuation of those mentioned in the last and preceding report for facilitating the calculation of the appearance of occultations of fixed stars by the moon during the year 1850 has been prepared by Mr. Downes, of Philadelphia, and published by the Institution. At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for establishing a Nautical Almanac, which will furnish, among other aids to astronomical observation, sets of tables of the kind just mentioned. Lieutenant Davis, of the United States navy, to whom the superintendence of this national work has been entrusted, recommended that the expense of the preparation of the tables for 1850 should be defrayed from the appropriation for the Almanac; and this recommendation has been concurred in by the Secretary of the Navy. The Institution has, therefore, been called upon merely to pay for the printing and distribution of the tables, and thus again enabled, with a small outlay of its funds, to afford important facilities for the advance of science.
Meteorology.
Under the general head of researches we may also give an account of the progress made in establishing the system of meteorological ob

<<<Page: 180>>>

servations proposed in the preceding reports. Circulars describing the plan of operation were distributed to the several parts of the Union through members of Congress at the last session, and the results fully equalled our anticipations. From localities widely separated from each other, and distributed over the greater portion of the United States, about one hundred and fifty monthly returns are now regularly received. ‘To carry on this system efficiently, much labor is necessarily required in the way of correspondence ; but it bids fair to furnish the Institution with a wide field of usefulness in bringing it into communication with individuals who, though secluded in position, are desirous of improving themselves, as well as of promoting general knowledge. The correspondence we have thus established, and which we hope to extend, through the aid of the members of the present Congress, will enable us to acquire definite information on a variety of subjects besides those which relate te meteorology. We have already accumulated in this way a mass of curious and instructive information, which we hope, in the progress of the development of the plan of the Institution, to digest and present to the public.
We would mention in this connexion that two of our meteorological correspondents have proposed the collection of statistics of diseases including the rise, progress, and decline of epidemics. ‘This is a subject we would commend to the American Medical Association. The Smithsonian Institution could assist in an enterprise of this kind by receiving the in‘ormation which is attainable, and collating it, under the direction of a committee of gentlemen belonging to the medical profession.
It will be recollected that our plan of meteorological observations embraces three classes of observers—one to record the changes in the aspect of the sky, the direction of the wind, beginning and ending of rain,
snow, &c.; another, in addition, to give an account of the changes of
temperature indicated by the thermometer ; and a third, furnished with
a full set of instruments for recording the most important atmospheric —
changes. The importance of the information which may be derived from a careful record of the weather without instruments can scarcely be realized by persons who have given but little attention to the subjects The place of origin, direction, velocity of motion of a storm, as well as
the direction and velocity of the wind which composes it, whether gyra-_
tory or inward and upward, may all be determined by a sufficient amount of data of the kind we have mentioned. Also, a careful record of the observations of meteors seen by individuals from different positions
would furnish interesting data for determining the elevation and velocity
of these mysterious visitors.
There are other data which can only be obtained by the use of accurate instruments ; fortunately, however, 2. comparativ ely small number of observers are sufficient for determining these. The instruments should be of the best possible construction, placed i in important situations, and
observed at suitable times and with undeviating regularity by competent _ observers. Few persons are acquainted with the difficulty of procuring — accurate meteorological instruments. The ordinary thermometers for sale in the s shops freque ntly differ several degrees from each other, particularly at the higher and the lower temperatures, and even the same thermometer is liable, for a time after its construction, to undergo a

<<<Page: 181>>>

change in the size of the bulb, and thus to derange the accuracy of the scale. An accurate barometer is another instrument which cannot readily be obtained, unless at too great a price for the means of ordinary observers. ‘The common weather glasses, sold under the name of barometers, though they may be of use in indicating variations of atmospheric pressure, and thus assist in furnishing data for determining the progress of aerial waves, are inapplicable to the precise and accurate observations necessary to determine the minute changes of atmospheric pressure, or to ascertain the height of places above the level of the sea.
Considerable pains have been taken during the past year to ascertain the best form of a barometer, which could be procured at a reasonable cost; and, after considerable inquiry and comparison of different instruments, we have at length decided upon one, with an adjustable cistern and enclosed in a brass: case, which may be transported to a distance, and will serve as well for a mountain barometer as for indicating meteorological changes. For the construction of these instruments, we have employed Mr. James Green, formerly of Baltimore, now of New York; and in order that the instruments furnished by him to ourselves, or sold to our observers, may be comparable with each other, we have procured a standard barometer from London, with which each instrument, previously numbered, is accurately compared, and the record carefully preserved. We have also decided upon the forms of rain and snow guages and wind vanes, and have ordered a number of these to be constructed by Benjamin Pike & Son, Broadway, New York.
It is the policy of the Institution to do as much with its funds as possible, and to call m aid from every quarter whence it may be obtained. With reference to the system of meteorology, I am happy to inform the Board that we have received assistance from a number of sources from which it could scarcely have been expected at the commencement of the scheme. ‘The last Congress appropriated two thousand dollars for meteorology, to be expended under the direction of the Navy Department. It was understood that Professor Espy was to be engaged in the investigations to be made in accordance with this appropriation, and, in order that his labors might co-operate with those of the Institution, the late Secretary of the Navy directed him to apply to me for instructions. During the past year he has been engaged in directing observations and making preparation for a series of experiments having an important bearing on the explanation of meteorological phenomena. It is understood that the remainder of this appropriation, after paying the salary of Mr. Espy, will be expended in defraying incidental expenses, such as printing, engraving, &c.
The Regents of the University of the State of New York, in 1825, organized a system of meteorology, which has continued ever since, and which has added many interesting facts to the stock of scientific knowledge. In order to extend the usefulness of this system, the Regents of the University have lately resolved to reorganize the whole, and to supply ihe observers with accurate and well compared instruments. This work has been intrusted to Dr. T. Romeyn Beck and one of our Regents, Gideon Hawley, esq., both of Albany. They have adopted the same system and instruments as those of the Smithsonian Institution,

<<<Page: 182>>>

and have agreed to co-operate fully with us in the observation of the general and particular phenomena of meteorology. A similar movement has been made in the legislature of Massachusetts for the establishment of a system of observations; and it is hoped that the other States of the Union will follow these examples. We are also happy to state that the medical department of the army, under the direction of Surgeon General Lawson, has signified its willingness to unite with us in the same system, and to furnish the new military posts with instruments constructed on the same plan, and compared with the Snuithsonian standard. We hope, therefore, within the coming year, that there will be established at least fifty stations in different parts of North America, furnished with accurate instruments of this kind.
During the past summer I visited Canada, principally for the purpose of examining the meteorological instruments and the method of using them employed at the Observatory of Toronto. Captain Lefroy, the director of this institution, afforded me every facility tor acquiring the desired information. He also furnished me with a list of military posts in Canada at which observations may be made, and gave assurance of the hearty co-operation in our labors of the officers attached to these posts. We have also a prospect of procuring permanent observations from Bermuda, sume of the West India islands, and from Central America.
From all these statements, it will be seen we are in a fair way of establishing a general system of meteorology, extending over a great portion of North America, including many stations furnished with compared instruments referred to the same standard. When fully organized, it will constitute one of the most important systems ever instituted 5 but to bring it fully into operation will require a judicious expenditure of all the funds at our disposal for this purpose. At the last session of the Board one thousand dollars were appropriated for meteorological purposes, the greater portion of which has been expended for instruments, among which are those to serve as standards; an equal sum, at least, will be required for the next year.
In connexion with the regular meteorological system, successful applications have been made to the presidents of a number of telegraph lines to allow us, at a certain period of the day, the use of their wires for the transmission of meteorological intelligence. We propose to furnish the most important offices along the lines with sets of instruments, and to give the operators special instructions for the observation of par-
ticular phenomena. It is hoped by this means to obtain results not —
otherwise accessible. Instruments for this purpose are now in process of construction, and as soun as they are completed the transmission of — observations will commence.
The establishment of the extended system of meteorology which we have just described is a work of time and labor, the correspondence alone being sufficient constantly to occupy the time of one person; and the adjustment of the several parts of the plan has required more time than my other engagements would permit me to devote to it.

<<<Page: 183>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. L77 Magnetic Observations.
A set of magnetic apparatus was ordered from London for the purpose of determining the lines of magnetic intensity, declination, and inclination. These are intrusted to Colonel Emory, of the Boundary Commission, and in his possession they will probably be made to do good service in the cause of science. As soon as the funds will admit of the appropriation, it would be advisable to purchase several sets of instruments of the same kind, to be placed in the hands of the scientific explorers of our new territories, and for determining the principal magnetic lines across the United States.
Physical Geography.
Another subject of much interest connected with the physical geography of our country is the collection of the statistics of all railway and canal explorations which have been made in various parts of the United States and Canada. This information, at present in the possession of individuals, is of little value, and, unless collected by some public institution, will soon be lost to the world. Surveys of this kind furnish the most exact data for the determination of what may be called the mountain bases, or general water-sheds of the surface ; and no portion of the world of the same extent has been so thoroughly traversed with these explorations as the United States. Connected with these, sketches should be made of the principal mountain ranges, barometrical measurements of the higher peaks, with geological sections of the strata through which the public works are carried. For the purpose of commencing this collection, we have addressed letters to all persons within our knowledge who possess information of this kind, requesting memoirs from them containing results of their own measurements and observations. By this means we hope to present a series of papers of the same character as that of Mr. Ellet, and thus furnish materials for a more accurate physical map of North America, as well as the means, in connexion with our operations in meteorology, for a more exact study of our climate.
During the past year Professor Guyot has made a barometrical exploration of the mountain system of New Hampshire, and he purposes to devote a portion of each year to investigations of this kind.
Natural EXstory.
Our new possessions in Oregon, California, and Mexico offer interesting fields for scientific inquiry, particularly in the line of natural history ; and Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, and Dr. Engleman, of St. Louis, aided by several scientific gentlemen interested in this branch of science, have sent a number of collectors to develop the resources of those regions, particularly so far as the botany is concerned.
Among these, Mr. Charles Wright has been engaged to make explorations during the past year in New Mexico, at the expense of a subscription by individuals and institutions. He has just returned laden with a valuable collection of plants, seeds, &c., which are to be divided

<<<Page: 184>>>

among those who defrayed the expense. Jn behalf of the Smithsormar Institution $150 was subscribed towards this enterprise, and for this we are entitled to a full set of all the objects collected. These are to be submitted to Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, to be described in a memoir by him, and to be published in the Smithsonian Contributions. Mr. Wright is expected to start on another expedition early in the spring, for the purpose of making explorations in natural history in the regions around El Paso; and it oath be well for the Smithsonian Institution to further assist this laudable enterprise with another subscription of an equal amount.
We have also purchased, for the sum of $20, a set of the plants cok lected by Mr. Fendler in the vicinity of Santa Fé during the year 1847. This adventurous explore er, under the direction of the “gentleman previously mentioned, is now engaged in investigating the botany of the great valley of the Salt ales an it is proposed fiicther to ussist him by the purch ase of a set of the collections he may obtam. By co operating in this way with individuals and institutions we are enabled, at a small expense, materially to advance the cause of science.
Ancient Monuments.
Another object, the prosecution of which fatls particularly within the province of the Institution, is that of obtainmg descriptions of the ancient monuments of North America. Circulars have been sent to gentlemen in various parts of the country, requesting them to furnish surveys and explor ations of mounds, and other ancient works, which are reputed to exist in their vicinity. ‘To facilitate these investigations, we have requested the authors of the first volume to draw up, from the results of their experience, a set of instructions for the proper examination and description of works of this kind. The same subject has also been placed before several historical societies, established in places where mounds are known to exist. In connexion with this subject, we cannot too highly commend the policy of the new Territory of Minnesota, which, among the first of its acts, has established a Historical Society, to gather up the record of events as they occur, and thus to preserve the unappreciated facts of the present—destined to become history in the future. An important and interesting part of the labors of such societies would be the surv« ey and exploration of the ancient monuments which might be found in their vicinity. Brief accounts of these might be published i in the proceedings of the societies, while detailed descriptions and drawings could be given to the world at the expense and through the transactions of the ‘Smithsoumm Institution.
The publication of our first volume has awakened a lively interest in this subject, and we have received accounts of various locations of mounds and other ancient works in different parts of the country which were previously unknown. A gentleman, well qualified for the task, is now engaged in preparing for us an ethnological chart indicaung the relative positions, as far as they are known, of all the ae of this kind. This chart may be improved from time to time, and will be the means of eliciting important additional information. Indeed this

<<<Page: 185>>>

whole subject should be prosecuted by the Institution, until all accesible information has been collected. The Smithsonian Institution owes this to the world. The work should be done quickly; for the plough, as well as the elements, are every year rendering less visible the outJines and distinctive forms of these remnarts of the arts and policy ot the ancient inhabitants of this continent.
Bibliographia Americana.
In the last report an account is given of the preparation of a work ‘on the bibliography of America, by Henry Stevens, of Vermont. This work, it will be recollected, is to contain a brief f Aboot of every book published in, or relating to, North America, prior to 1700, w ith references to the differert libraries in. this and other countries in which these works are to be found. The Institution agreed to publish thrs work at its own expense, provided, on examination by a commission of competent judges, it is found properly executed. Mr. Stevens is now engaged in the British Museum cataloguing all the works embraced in this plan, and informs me that he is making good progress in his “enterprise.
Reports on the Progress of Knowledge.
Of the reports on the progress of knowledge proposed in the plan of organization, none have as vee been published, though several of those aentioned:i in my report of last year have been complete d, OF are’Very nearly ready for the press. "The appropriations, however, for the last year were not found safficient for carryimg out further this part of the plan.
The most important report now in progress is that on the forest-trees ‘of North America, by Dr. Gray, Professor of Botany in Harvard University. {tis intended in this work to give figures from original drawings of the flowers, leaves, fruit, &c., of aaa principal species in the United States proper, for the most part of the size of nature, and so executed as to furnish colored or uncolored Sa first being in_ tended to give an adequate idea of the species, and the second for | ‘greater cheapness and more general diffusion.
This work will be completed in three parts, in octavo, with an atlas of quarto piates—the first part to be published next spring. A portion ‘of this will be occupied with an introductory dissertation giving the present state of our knowledge, divested as much as possible of all unnecessary technical terms—of the anatomy, morphology, and phystology of the tree—tracing its growth from the embryo to its full deveJopment and reproduction in the formation of fruit and seed. This will be illustrated by drawings from original dissections under the microscope, and sketches made, in every instance, from nature. As
_ the work will be adapted to general comprehension, it will be of inter-
5 a est to the popular as well as the scientific reader.
Report on the history of the discovery of the planet Neptune. —The first part of a report on recent discoveries in astronomy has been completed,
and is ready for the press. ‘This is written by Dr. B. A. Gould, of

<<<Page: 186>>>

Cambridge, editor of the American Astronomical Journal. Copious references to authorities are given in foot-notes, which will render the work interesting to the professed astronomer as well as to the less advanced student.
A report has been prepared by Professor Guyot, late of the University of Neufchatel, on the construction and use of meteorological instruments, more particularly designed for distribution among our meteorological observers. This gentleman is now engaged, at ache expense of the Regents of the Univers sity of the State of New: York, in establishing a new system of met teorology, and in instructing the observers in the use of the instruments; for which service he is well adapted by his experience in a similar ‘undertaking in Switzerland.
The report on the application of chemistry to agriculture is also nearly ready for the press. Thisis by Dr. Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers College, New Jersey.
Collections. *
Apparatus.—The plan of organization also contemplates the formation of a museum of physical instruments, which may be used for experimental illustration and original research, and may serve as models to workmen as well as to illustrate the general progress of inventions in this line.
The munificent donation of Dr. Hare has enabled us to commence this collection with very flattering prospects. It now contains, besides the articles of Dr. Hare, instruments for the illustration of the principles of light, heat, and sound, procured from Paris, and a full set of pneumatic instruments, of superior size and workmanship, constructed expressly for the Institution by Mr. Chamberlain, of Boston; also, a number of chemical articles purchased during the last year ; a set of magnetical instruments, already noticed ;°a standard barometer and thermometers, and other meteorological instruments, procured from Europe. Itis proper that I mention, in this place, that we are indebted to Professor Snell, of Amherst, for superintending the construction of a set of very ingenious instruments devised by himself for the illustration of wave motion. It is believed that the collection of instruments of research will, in due time, not only form a feature of great interest, but that it will surpass in extent similar collections in other countries.
It is intended to publish a descriptive catalogue of all the instruments, for the use of visitors; and it may be advisable to illustrate this by wood-cuts, particularly as we have had presented to us all the wood engravings employed by Dr. Hare in describing his apparatus.
It is not in accordance with the plan of or ganization to confine the instruments of observation to the immediate use of the officers of the institution but to suffer them to be employed, under certain restrictions, by others who are possessed of the requisite degree of skill. This practice may be attended in some cases with loss, and the breakage of | instruments; but the expenditure which may be incurred on this account will probably be more than compensated by the advance to knowledge resulting from the adoption of the plan.

<<<Page: 187>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 18] A small appropriation has been made for collections in natural history during the past year; and, under the direction of a distinguished young naturalist, upwards of ten thousand specimens of vertebrated animals, principally reptiles and fishes, have been obtained. Many of these are rare specimens from unexplored parts of our country, and a considerable number of them consists of undescribed species. They furnish the materials for an interesting series of memoirs on physiology, embryology, and comparative anatomy. The whole cost of making this collection did not exceed $140. We are convinced, from the important results obtained by this small expenditure, that a most valuable working collection of objects of the natural history of North America ean be obtained at a very moderate outlay of funds.
Library.
During the past year the process of developing the plan of the library, as given in the programme, has been carried out by Professor Jewett as far as the funds which could be devoted to the purpose would allow.
Considerable progress has been made in the plan of forming a general catalogue of all the important libraries in the United States; and Professor Jewett has wisely commenced the preparation of a catalogue of all the books to be found in the different libraries in the city of Washington, including those of the several departments of the government; and in this way he will be enabled to exhibit the importance of catalogues of this kind.
He has also devoted much time to the continuation of his researches relative to the statistics of libraries ir this country, and for an account in detail of his valuable labors in this line I must reter to his report herewith transmitted. I will also direct attention to some important suggestions in his report on the subject of the deposit ef books for securing copyright, and the establishment of a bulletin.
Museum.
The formation of a museum of objects of nature and of art requires much caution. With a given income to be appropriated to the purpose, atime must come when the cost of keeping the objects will just equal the amount of the appropriation ; after this no further increase can take place. Also, the tendency of an Institution of this kind, unless guarded against, will be to expend its funds on a heterogenous collection of ob_ jects of mere curiosity ; whereas the plan presented in the programme contemplates complete definite collections arranged for scientific pur_ poses, rather than for popular display.
_ Inthis connexion there is one point which I beg to present to the _ consideration of the Board as one of much importance, and which, if _ possible, should be decided at this meeting, because on it will depend _ the arrangement of that part of the building devoted to natural history. _Tallude to the acceptance of the museum of the Exploring Expedition.

<<<Page: 188>>>

By the law incorporating this Institution, ‘all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants, and ecological and mineralogical specimens belonging to or hereafter to belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them.”
This law evidently gives to the Smithsonian Institution the museum in the Patent Office, the conserv ratory of plants, and all specimens of nature and art to be found in the several offices and departments of the government. "The aet, however, cannot be construed as SaaS it obligatory on the Regents to take charge of these articles, if, in their opinion, it is not for the best interests of the Institution that ie should do so. ‘Though one of the reasons urged upon the Regents for the immediate erection of so large a building was the necessity of providing accommodation for this museum, I have been, from the first, of the opinion that it is Imexpedient to accept It.
This museum was collected at the expense of the government, and should be preserved as a memento of the science and energy of our navy, and as a means of illustrating and verifying the magnificent volumes which comprise the history of that expedition. If the ‘Regents accept this museum, it must be merged i in the Smithsonian collectunes It could not be the intention of Congress that an Institution founded by the liberality of a foreigner, and to which he has affixed his own name, should be charged with the keeping of a separate museum, the property of the United States. Besides this, the extensive museum of the Patent Office would immediately fill the space allotted for collections of this kind in the Smithsonian edifice, and in a short time another appropriation would be required for the erection of another building. Moreover, all the objects of interest of this collection have been described and figured in the volumes of the expedition, and the small portion of our funds which can be devoted to a museum may be better employed in collecting new objects, such as have not yet been studied, than in preserving those from which the harvest of discovery has already been fully gathered.
The answer made to some of these objections has usually been, that the government would grant an annual appropriation for the support of the museum of the Exploring Expedition. But this would be equally objectionable; since it would atinually bring the Institution before Congress as a supplicant for government patronage, and ultimately subject it to political influence and control.
Afier an experience of three years, I am fully convinced that the true policy of the Institution is to ask nothing from Congress except the safekeeping of its fands, to mingle its operations as little as possible with those of the general government, and to adhere in all cases to its own distinct organization, while it co-operates with other institutions in the way of promoting knowledge; and on the other hand, that it is desirable that Congress should place as few restrictions on the Institution as possible, Panesicat with a judicious expenditure of the income, and that this be judged of by a proper estimate of the results produced.

<<<Page: 189>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: 183 Lectures.
At the last meeting of the board an appropriation of five hundred dollars was made to defray the expense of lectures to be given betore the Smithsonian Institution, a part of which only is expended. The first course, in accordance with this part of the plan of organization, was by Professor Koeppen, of Denmark, on Modern Athens. These lectures were illustrated by a number of large drawings, for the use of which the Institution is indebted to the Lowell Institute, of Boston. A second course was delivered by Dr. Hitchcock, President of Amherst College, on geology, in the lecture-room of the east wing of the Smithsonian building; and both courses were attended by large and apparently interested audiences. The results of these lectures indicate that much good may be effected in Washington by this means of comimunicating Tees: dge. No city, perhaps, Ton the same number of inbabitants, Soe nine so many intelligent and well educated persons desirous of obtaining information; and no point in our country Is so favorably situated for the dissemination of opinions, by means of lectures, as the political centre of the American Union. Invitations have been given to a number of distinguished gentlemen in different parts of the United States to favor us with courses of lectures during the present session of Congress, and in almost every case the invitation has been accepted. It is ended to extend these invitations so as to call here in succession all who have distinguished tkemselves in literature or science. We shall mot seek mere popular lecturers, whose chief recommendation is fluency of speech, or powers of rhetorical declamation, but chiefly those who are entitled, from their standing and acquirements, to spei ak with authority om the subjects of their discourse, and whose character will tend to give due importance to their communications. It is to be regretted that the amount of funds which can be devoted to this object is 64 as great as could be wished. It is hoped, however, that many persons al. eonsider the opportunity of visiting Washington, and the compliment paid by the invitation, as im part a remuneration for the labor and tume which their lectures may cost. But in all cases, sufhcient should be allowed to defray all necessary expenses, and, as soon as the state of the funds will permit, to reward liberally, rather than otherwise, those who are called to assist the Institution im this way. I forbear to publish ¢he narnes of those who have consented to lecture, lest they should be accidentally prevented from filling their engagement, and the public thus be disappointed.
To facilitate the approach to the building, at the time of these lectures, the walks were temporar ily improved, EA considerable expense to the Institution. It is hoped that the authorities of the city of Washington will cause bridges to be erected across the canal, and walks to be constructed through the public grounds, to facilitate the approach to the building, and that the Institution will not be expected to provide accommodations of this kind.

<<<Page: 190>>>

184 EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF Building.
The east wing of the building was taken possession of by the Secretary in April last, and has since been constantly occupied. The west wing is now finished, and it is contemplated to occupy it temporarily as a library until the portion of the main building intended for this purpose is completed.
The plan of the Smithsonian building was designed by the architect, and recommended to the Board by a committee on the Regents, before the programme of organization was adopted. It is not strange, therefore, when the building came to be occupied, that changes in ‘the i inter-
nal arrangement should be deemed advisable which would better adapt it to the wants of the Institution. Such changes, at my suggestion, have been made; and for the propriety of these I am responsible. They are principally, however, those of simplification, and im themselves add nothing to the cost of the edifice. An increased expense, however, will arise out of the furnishing of new rooms which have been acquired by the alterations.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 191>>>

FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT Of the Secretary of the Smithsoman Institution, for the year 1850.
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :
GenTLEMEN: During the past year the several parts of the plan of organization have been ‘prosecuted as efficiently as the portion of the income which could be devoted to them would permit. The financial affairs are in a prosperous condition, and though the funds are burthened with the erection of a costly building, and the expenditures trammelled by restrictions growing out of the requisitions of the charter of incorporation, yet the results thus far obtained, are such as satisfactorily to prove that the Institution is doing good service in the way of promoting and diffusing knowledge.
Though the programme of organization has been given in two of the annual reports and extensively published in the newspapers, its character does not appear to be as widely known and as properly appreciated as could be desired. Indeed it will be necessary at intervals to republish the terms of the bequest, and also the general principles of the plan which has been adopted, in order that the public may not only be informed of what the Institution is accomplishing, but also reminded of what ought reasonably to be expected trom its operations. Moreover, there is a tendency in the management of public institutions to lose sight of the object for which they were established, and hence it becomes important frequently to advert to the principles by which they ought to be governed. I beg leave, therefore, as introductory to this report, briefly to recapitulate some of the propositions of the programme of organization, and to state some of the facts connected with its adoplion.
Smiruson left his property, in case of the death of his nephew, to whom it was first bequeathed, “to tound at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” These are the only words of the testator to serve as a 1 guide to the adoption of a plan for the execution. of his benevolent design. They are found, however, when attentively considered to admit of legitimate deductions sufficiently definite and comprehensive.
1. The bequest is made to the United States, in trust for the good of mankind.
2. The objects of the Institution are two-fold; first, to increase, second, to diffuse knowledge ; objects which, though often confounded with each other, are logically distinet and ought to be separately regarded. ‘The first is the enlargement of the existing stock of knowledge by the discovery of new truths, and the second 1s the dissemina-
| tion of these and other truths among men. | 3. No particular kind of knowledge i is designated; hence a liberal
_ interpretation of the bequest will include no part of the great domain of

<<<Page: 192>>>

science and literature from the degree of attention its importance may demand.
4. Since mankind are to be benefited by the bequest, any unnecessary expenditure on merely local objects would not be in accordance with the proper administration of the trust.
5. Though the funds are generally considered large, and much is expected of them, they are really small in proportion to the demands
made upon them. The annual income of the bequest is less than half the cost of the publication of a single yearly report of the Patent Office.
6. In order, therefore, that the limited income may effect the greatest amount of good, it should be expended in doing that which cannot be done as well by other means.
These views, which have commanded the assent of all unpreyudiced and reflecting persons who have studied the subject, have been the guiding princ ‘iple s in all cases in which [ have had any Pee of direction; ; and | am happy to say they are fully adopted by the present directors and officers of the Institution.
To carry out the design of the testator, various plans were proposed ; but most of these were founded on an imperfect apprehension of the terms of the Will. ‘The great majority of them contemplated merely the diffusion of popular information, and neglected the first and the most promine nt requisition of the bequest, namely, the ‘increase of knowledge.” ‘The only plan in strict conformity with the terms of the Will, and which espe cially commended itself to.men of science, a class to which Smithson himself belonged, was that of an active living organization, intended principally to promote the discovery and diffusion of new truths by instituting original researches, under the direction of suitable persons, in History, “Antiquities, Ethnology, and the
various branches of Physical Science. and by publishing and distributing among libraries and other public institutions, accounts of the results cliiele might thus be obtained, as well as of those of the labors of men of talent which could not otherwise be given to the world.
This plan, which was probably in the mind of the donor when he gave expression to the few but comprehensive words which indicate the objects of the bequest, is found from our experience to be eminently practical. It requires no costly building or expensive permanent establishment. Its operations, limited only by the amount of the income, are such as to affect the condition of man wherever literature and science are cultivated, while it tends in this country to give an impulse to original thought, which, amidst the strife of polities s, and the inordinate pursuit of wealth, is of all things most desirable.
oO It was with the hope of being able to assist in the practical develop-
ment of this plan, that [ was induced to accept the appointment of principal executive oficer of the Institution. Many unforeseen obstacles, however, presented themselves to its full adoption ; ; and its advocates soon found, in contending with opposing views and adverse interests, a wide difference between what, in their opinion, ought to be done and what they could actually accomplish.
The plan was novel and by many considered entirely chimneriaall indeed it could not be properly appreciated except by those who had been devoted to original research. Besides this, the law of Congress

<<<Page: 193>>>

incorporating the Institution, while it did not forbid the expenditure of a part of the income for other objects, authorized the formation of a Library, a Museum and a Gallery of Art, and the erection of a building, on a liberal scale, for their accommodation. H was, indeed, the opinion of many that the whole income ought to be expended on these objects. The Regents did not consider themselves at liberty to disre~ gard the indications of Congress, and the opinion expressed in favor of collections; and after much discussion it was finally concluded to divide the income into two equal parts, and, after deducting the general expenses, to devote one half to the active operations set forth in the plan just described; and the other, to the formation of a Library, a Museum and a Gallery of Art.
It was evident, however, that the small income of the original be-~ quest, though in itself sufficient to do much good in the way of active operation, was inadequate to carry out this more extended plan—to maintain the staff of attendants, and to defray other contingent expenses incidental to a large establishment of this kind. Besides the Secretary and an assistant to attend to the general operations, two principal assistants would be required, one to take charge of the Library and the other of the Museum of Natural History; and to these sufficient salaries must be given, to secure the services of men of the first reputation and talents in their respective lines. It, therefore, became absolutely necessary that the income should be increased ; and in order to do this, it was proposed to save the greater part of the $242,000 of accrued interest which Congress had authorized to be expended in a building, by erecting, at a cost not to exceed $50,000, the nucleus of an edifice, which could be expanded as the wants of the Institution might require, and to add the remainder to the principal.
Unfortunately, however, for this proposition, Congress had presented to the Institution the great museum of the Exploring Expedition; and a majority of the Regents, supposing it necessary to make immediate provision for the accommodation of this gift, had taken preliminary steps, previous to my appointment, to construct a large building, and indeed a majority of the committee, to which the matter was referred, had determined to adopt the plan of the present edifice. Strenuous Opposition was, however, made to this; and as a compromise, it was finally agreed to draw from the United States treasury $240,000 of accrued interest, and instead of expending this immediately in completing the plan of the proposed building, to invest it in treasury notes, then at par, and to finish the building in the course of five years, in part out of the interest of these notes, in part out of the sale of a portion of them, and also in part out of a portion of the annual interest accruing on the original bequest. It was estimated that in this way, at the end of five years, besides devoting $250,000 to the building, the annual income of the Institution would be increased from $30,000 to nearly $40,000, a sum sufficient to carry out all the provisions of the programme.
After the resolutions relative to the division of the income, between collections on the one hand and active operations on the other, had been adopted, and the plan of finance as to the building had been settled, I was requested to confer with persons of literary and scientific reputa~

<<<Page: 194>>>

tion, and to digest into the form of a general programme the several resolutions of the Board. In the programme which was thus produced and afterwards adopted, it is attempted to harmonize the different propositions of the Board, and to render them all, library, collections, &c., as far as possible, subservient to a living, active organization. Though a valuable library will in time be accumulated, by donation and_ the exchange of the publications of the Institution, the design at first is to purchase only such books as are immediately necessary in the other operations of the Institution, or which cannot be procured in this country; andthe Librarian is required to perform other duties than those which pertain to the office of an ordinary collector and curator of books. He is directed to report on plans of libraries, and the best method of managing them; to collect the statistics of the libraries of the United States; to make a general catalogue as far as possible of all the books in this country, and to procure all the information necessary for rendering the Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge. Instead of attempting to form a miscellaneous collection of objects of nature and art, it is proposed to collect only those which will yield a harvest of new results, and to preserve principally such as are not found in other collections, or will serve to illustrate and verify the Smithsonian pubhications.
The tendency of an Institution in which collections form a prominent object, is constantly towards a stationary condition; with a given income, the time must inevitably come when the expenditures necessary to accommodate the articles with house room and attendance will just equal the receipts. There is indeed no plan by which the funds of an institution may be more inefficiently expended, than that of filling a costly building with an indiscriminate collection of objects of curiosity, and giving these in charge to a set of inactive curators. Happily, the programme of organization and the system of expenditure which the Regents have adopted, if rigidly adhered to, will prevent this state of things, and happily the spirit of the present directors and officers who are to give the initial form to the character of the Institution, is im accordance with as active operations as the state of the funds and requisitions of Congress will allow.
It is to be regretted that Congress did not leave the entire choice of the plan of organization to those who were to be entrusted with the management of the bequest, and that, instead of the plan of a costly building, there had not been adopted the nucleus of a more simple edifice, which could bave been modified to meet the wants which experience might indicate.
The original estimate for the building, furniture, and improvement of the grounds was $250,000; and could the actual cost have been confined to this sum, all the results anticipated from the scheme of finance which had been adopted would have been realized at the end of five years. During the past year, however, it has been found necessary, for the better protection of the collections, to order the fire-proofing of the interior of the edifice, at an increased expense of $44,000. ‘This additional draft on the funds can only be met by extending the time for the completion of the building; and even this will require the appropriation of a portion of the income which ought to be devoted to other

<<<Page: 195>>>

purposes. The active operations will suffer most by this draft on the income, since it will be made for the better accommodation of the library and the museum.
It must not be inferred, from the foregoing account, that the affairs of the Institution are in an unfavorable condition; on the contrary,: though they are not in every respect what could be wished, still, under the circumstances I have mentioned, they are much better than could have been anticipated. The funds are in a very prosperous state, and all the obstacles in the way of the usefulness of the establishment, may, by judicious management, in time be removed. ‘The opposition which was made to the building, led to the adoption of the plan of finance to which I have heretofore adverted, and from this has been realized much more than could have been expected.
After all the expenditures which have been made on the building, grounds, publications, researches, purchase of books and apparatus, not only is the original bequest untouched, but there is now on hand upwards of $200,000 of accrued interest. This will be sufficient to finish the exterior of the building, including all the towers, the interior of the wings, ranges, and a part of the interior of the main edifice ; which will afford sufficient accommodation for some years to come, and leave $150,000 to be added to the principal.
This result has been produced by a rigid adherence to the determiuation of increasing the annual income; and in accordance with this, and in obedience to the direction of the Board of Regents, a petition has been presented to Congress, asking that $150,000 may be taken from the Institution and placed in the treasury of the United States, on the same terms as those of the acceptance of the original bequest, never to be expended, and yielding a perpetual interest of six per cent.
If this petition be granted, all the funds will be permanently and safely invested, and the original income will be increased from $30,000 to nearly $40,000. Out of this, beside carrying on the more important object of the plan, it is-proposed to appropriate yearly a small sum for the gradual completion of the interior of the building.
The great importance of a small addition to the income will be evident, when it is recollected that a definite sum is annually required to defray the necessary expenses of the establishment, and that after this has been provided, every addition will tend to produce a greater proportional amount of useful effect. The proposed increase will be sufficient to pay all the salaries of the officers, and leave the original income in a great measure free to be applied to the objects contemplated in the plan.
At the last meeting of the Board, Professor Baird, of Dickinson College, Pennsylvania, a gentleman distinguished for his attainments in science, Was appointed an Assistant Secretary in the department of natural history. His appointment was made at this time more particularly in order that his services might be secured to take charge of the publications, and that we might avail ourselves of the ample experience which he had gained in this line. He entered on his duties in July last, and besides being actively engaged in organizing the department of natural history, he has rendered important service in conducting our foreign exchanges and attending to the business of the press.

<<<Page: 196>>>

This addition to our force was absolutely necessary to a more efficient discharge of the duties which devolve on us. No person, except from actual experience, can form an idea of the amount of labor required for the transaction of the ordinary business. The correspondence alone is sufficient to occupy two persons continually during the usual office hours. :
During the past year one half of the whole income has been appro priated to the building; and after deducting the general expenses, the remainder has been equally divided peneen the two great classes of objects designated in the plan. The portion of the income after these divisions, sien could be devoted to any one object, has been necessarily small; for example, all that could be expended for researches, publications, and lectures, and indeed for every thing of which the pub lic at a distance could take immediate cognizance, has not exceeded $4,500, and yet out of this sum we have besa expected to produce results for which the whole income would be entirely inadequate. { trust, however, that a proper consideration of the facts presented in the remainder of this report, will show that much has been done in proportion to the means at our command.
Publication of Original Memoirs.
The important aid which can be rendered to the promotion of knowledge by the publication, and in some cases by assistance in the preparation of important memoirs, is now beyond all question. Experience has thus far abundantly shown that much more matter of the most valuable character will be presented for publication, free of all charge, than the portion of the mcome devoted to this object will allow us to publish. Indeed, there is now on hand, er in preparation, more material of this kind than we shall be able, with our limited income, to give to the world in two or three years. In view of this fact, I cannot repress the expre ssion of regret which I have alw ays felt, that the restrictions arising from the requisitions of Congress do not permit a greater expenditure for this most impertant object. It is chiefly by the publications of the Institution that its fame is to be spread through the world, and the monument most befitting the name of Smithson erected to his memory.
Most of the distinguished foreign literary and scientific societies have placed the Tnentauion on their list of exchange, and in mary instances have presented not only the current volume of their transactions, but also full sets of the preceding volumes. We have reason to believe that before the e xpiration of another year, we shall receive in exchange the transactions of nearly all the learned societies of the world, and that the Institution will be recognised by them as an active co-operator in the promotion of knowledge. Professor Baird has furnished a list of the literary and scientific societies to which the quarto volumes have been presented.
The following Memoirs, an account of which was given in my last report, have been printed, or are now in press:
1. Researches relative to the planet Neptune; by S. C. Walker.
2. Contributions to the Physical Geography of the United States ; by Charles Ellet, Jr.
WD ee ao ed a i). em.
————

<<<Page: 197>>>

3. Meinoir on the Explosiveness of Nitre; by Dr. Robert Leche
4. On the Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York; by E. G. Squier.
5. Memoir on the Reciprocal Action of two Galvanic Currents ; by A. Secchi, of Georgetown College.
6. On the Classification of Insects, from Embryological Data ; by Professor Louis Agassiz.
7. Monograph of Mosasaurus and the allied Genera; by Dr. R. W. Gibbes.
Besides these, several other papers not described in my last report have been printed, and are ready for separate distribution. ‘The first of these I shall mention is by Professor Lieber, of the College of South Carolina, on the vocal sounds of Laura Bridgman, the blind and deaf mute, whose mind, apparently forever consigned to darkness, has been almost miraculously enlightened, by the sagacity, ingenuity, and perseverance of Dr. Howe.
There is, perhaps, at this time, no living human being who offers te the psychologist so attractive an object of study as this individual; and hence every observation relative to her peculiar habits is of great interest. Dr. Lieber has, from year to year, during his summer vacations, been in the habit of visiting Laura Bridgman, and on one occasion spent three months in her iene dicdie neighborhood for the purpose of studying the sounds which she utters asindicative of ideas. These sounds consist principally of such as she volutarily adopted to designate different individuals. ‘The results of the observations given in ‘this paper are accompanied by a series of philosophical dedupsion and suggestions which cannot fail to interest the psychologist and physiologist. This memoir is illustrated by an engraved fuc semile of a letter from Laura Bridgman’s own hand.
The next paper is by Professor Bailey of West Point. This gentleman has rendered himself favorably known to the world of science by his researches on minute animals and plants, which, though mostly unseen by the naked eye, are found as widely distributed, and as permanent and definite in character, as the largest organized objects in nature. This paper gives the results of a series ae microscopic observations which the author made during his sojourn in the southern part of the United States, whither he was ordered last winter on account of his health. It designates numerous localities of microscopic animals and plants, and furnishes lists of the species found in each. It also contains a series of tables presenting a number of species with the different localities where each was found. The species so classed include those of the Desmi dize, Diatomacez, Infusoria, and Algee. Following these is a description of numerous other species, most of which are represented by lithographic figures.
Among the interesting facts arrived at by the author, are the discovery of an est e stratum roe fossil infusorize near ‘Tampa Bay, F lorida 5 the existence of infusoriz in the rice fields of the south; ; and the demonstration of the cosmopolite character of many microscopic ane cts hitherto believed to exist only in Europe.
Another paper by the same author, but presented to the Institution by Professor Bache, Superintendent of the U. 8. Coast Survey, has refer

<<<Page: 198>>>

ence to a microscopic examination of soundings along the eastern coast of the United States; samples of all the materials brought up by the sounding apparatus of the Coast Survey having been carefully preserved by Professor Bache in bottles, and so arranged as to present, as it were, the surface geology of the ontoth of the sea within a certain distance from the shore. Specimens of these were given to Professor Bailey for microscopic examination, and the results are presented in this paper. It exhibits the fact of a high development of minute organic forms, mainly of Polythalamia, in ‘all deep soundings, varying from fifty-one to ninety fathoms, occurring in an abundance similar to that in which analogous fossil forms are found in the marls under the city of Charleston. It also shows that each locality has its predominant species, by means of which alone the region whence they were taken may be indicated. Many of the conclusions derived are of much interest to the mariner, the geologist, and the naturalist. The paper closes with a brief description of the genera and species referred to, embracing several that are new, the whole accompanied by numerous figures.
In connexion with the foregoing may be mentioned a paper by Mr. Charles Girard, entitled ‘* A Monograph of the Fresh water Cottoids of North America,” which has been accepted, and will soon be published. The species of fish called Cottus gobio, was supposed to be common to Europe and America, and thus toform an exception to a general rule in regard to the fresh water species of the two continents. It has been discovered by Mr. Girard and others, that the European species, as described hy Linnzus, is really composed of several, and that while none of these are found in North America, we have actually anumber of species peculiar to this country. The memoir contains elaborate descriptions of the known species as ‘well as of several new ones, together with copious notes on their scientific history, their geographical distribution, affinities with each other and with foreign species, anatomical structure, &c.,—the whole illustrated by appropriate figures. It is worthy of remark, that most of the hitherto undescribed species presented in this memoir were collected by Professor Baird, and now form a part of the Smithsonian collection.
Another memoir, now in course of preparation, is one which will of itself occupy a considerable portion of one of the quarto volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. It affords an interesting illustration of the working of the plan of organization in the way of “eliciting important scientific knowledge which would not otherwise ‘be produced, or, if produced, could not be given to the world through any other channel.
This memoir consists of a description of the marine plants, or Algee, which are found along the eastern and southern coasts of the United States, and which are deserving of attention, not only on account of their beauty, variety, and the illustrations they present of the growth and development of vegetable forms, but also on account an their economical value with reference to agriculture and the chemical arts. This volume is in the course of preparation by Professor Harvey, of the University of Dublin, Ireland, a gentleman who is recognised as the first authority in this branch of botany. He was induced to visit this country by an invitation to lecture on the Algze before the Lowell Institute, and by the opportunity thus offered him of studying his favorite
ila.

<<<Page: 199>>>

branch of science in a new region. After completing his lectures, he made a collection of the marine plants of our coast, and offered to furnish drawings of the genera and species, with detailed descriptions free of all cost, provided the Institution would bear the expense of publication.
Upon the warm recommendation of some of the principal botanists of the country, the liberal offer of Professor, Harvey was accepted, and he is now engaged in making with his own hand the drawings on stone. The preparation of the work, besides the time expended in collecting the specimens, will occupy two or three years. This voluntary contribution to knowledge from a man of science may surprise those whose minds are not liberalized by philosophical pursuits, and who cannot conceive any object in labor unconnected with pecuniary gain.
To assist in defraying the heavy expense of the publication of this work, it is proposed to color the plates of a part of the edition, and to offer copies for sale. The work will also be issued in parts, so as to distribute the cost through several years.
In addition to the foregoing, an appendix—added to Mr. Squier’s paper on the ancient monuments of New York—has been printed. Also, there has been such an urgent demand for copies of Mr. Ellet’s paper on the physical geography of the Mississippi Valley, that it has been thought advisable to reprint it and distribute the whole of the first edition among all persons to whom a knowledge of its contents would be of peculiar importance.
The several papers which have been described in this and the preceding Report will, when collected together, form the contents of the second and part of the third volume.
The plan adopted of printing each memoir with a separate title and paging has been found to answer a good purpose. There is no delay im printing one paper on account of the engraving of the plates of another ; and long before a volume can be completed, a separate memoir may be widely circulated among those most interested in its perusal. As an example of this, 1 may mention that one of the papers which forms part of the second volume of the Contributions has already been reprinted in the London and Edinburg Journal, with due credit given to the Institution.
Reports on the Progress of Knowledge.
The income of the Institution as yet has not been sufficient for fully reducing to practice this part of the plan of organization. The preparation of these reports can only be intrusted to those who are familiar with the subjects, and well skilled in the art of composition, and the services of such persons cannot be obtained without an adequate remuneration. Of the several reports mentioned at the last meeting of the Board but one has been published, viz: that on the discovery of the planet Neptune, by Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cambridge, editor of the Astronomical Journal. It has been stereotyped, and copies distributed amongst all our meteorological observers and other persons in the country known to us as being actively engaged in promoting the science of astronomy.

<<<Page: 200>>>

The preparation of the report on the Forest-Trees of North America, though delayed in consequence of the absence of the author, Dr. Gray, of Harvard University, on a visit to Europe, is still in progress. The illustrations are in the hands of the artists, and the first part will proba~ bly be published during the present year. The cost of this report, on account of the elaborate illustrations, will:be greater than was at first anticipated ; consequently the publication of the entire work must necessarily be spread over a number of years. It is believed, however, that a considerable part of the expense will be repaid to the Institution by the sale of copies at a small advance on the original cost.
The other reports on the Progress of Knowledge mentioned in my last communication to the Regents are ready for the press, and will be published, in whole or in part, during the present year.
The Report on the statistics of Libraries of the United States, prepared by Professor Jewett, has been ordered to be printed by Congress, as an appendix to the Regents’ Report. A sufficient number of. extra copies will be presented to the Institution, for distribution to all the libraries from which statistical information was received. It forms a volume of about two hundred and twenty-five pages, and will, I am sure, be considered an important contribution to bibliographical statistics.
Distribution of Publications.
e have found considerable difficulty in deciding upon the rules to be observed in the distribution of the Smithsonian publications. It is evident that, from the small portion of the income which can be devoted to this object, the distribution must be circumscribed. Fifteen hundred copies of each memoir have been printed ; but this number, though all that the income could furnish, has not been found sufficient to meet a tenth part of the demand. It should be recollected that, though these memotrs consist of the results of new investigations of the highest importance to the well-being of man, in extending the bounds of his Knowledge of the universe of aint and matter, yet rie -y are not generally of ah a character as to be immediately appreciated by the popular mind, and, indeed, they are better ad: apted to instruct the teacher than to interest the general reader. They should, therefore, be distributed in such a way as most readily to meet the eye of those who will make the best use of them in diffusing a knowledge of their contents.
The following rules have been adopted for the distribution of the quarto volumes of collections of memoirs:
1. They are to be presented to all Learned Societies which publish transactions and give copies of these in exchange to the Institution.
2. To all Foreign Libraries of the first class, provided they give —
in exchange their “catalogues, or other publications, or an equivalent from their ‘duplicate volumes. . 3. ‘To all Colleges in actual operation in this country, provided they furnish in return meteorological observations, catalogues of their libraries and of their students, and all other publications issued by them relative to their organization and history. |

<<<Page: 201>>>

4. To all States and Territories ; provided they give in return, copies of all documents published under their authority.
5. To all incorporated Public Libraries in this country, not included in either of the foregoing classes, containing more than seven thousand volumes; and to smaller Libraries, where a whole State or large district would be otherwise left unsupplied.
The author of each memoir receives, as his only compensation, a certain number of copies, to distribute among his friends, or to present to individuals who may be occupied in the same line of research. In this way single memoirs are distributed to individuals, and especially to those who are most actively engaged in promoting discoveries. Copies of the reports, and also in some cases of particular memoirs, are sent to our meteorological observers. Besides these, we have placed on the list the more prominent Academies and Lyceums, as recipients of the minor publications. It is also intended, in order to benent the public more generally, to place on sale copies of memoirs and reports; though on account of the number required for the supply of Institutions, we have not, as yet, been able to carry this plan into effect.
No copyright has been taken for the Smithsonian publications ; they are therefore free to be used by the compilers of books, and in this way they are beginning to reach the general reader and to produce a bene-
ficial effect on the public mind. ‘
Meteorology.
The system of meteorology under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution has, during the last year, made good progress. And though the whole number of stations has not been much increased, yet the character of the instruments adopted, and consequently the value of the observations, has been improved both in precision and variety.
This system is intended to embrace, as far as possible, the whole extent of North America, and to consist of three classes of observers. One class, without instruments, to record the changes in the aspect of
_the sky, the direction of the wind, the beginning and ending of rain,
the appearance of the aurora, &c. Another, in addition to the foregoing, to give an account of the changes of temperature, as indicated ‘by fhe: sheen ney Se A third class, furnished with full sets of instruments,
to record all changes deemed important in the study of meteorology.
To carry on he system, the Institution has received or _ expects to receive assistance from the following sources : J. From the small appropriation made by Congress, to be expended
under the direction of the Navy Department.
2. From the appropriations made by different States of the Union.
3d. From the observations made under the direction of the Medical Department of the United States army.
4. From the officers of her Majesty’s service in different parts of the British possessions in North America.
5. From observations made by institutions and individuals, in different
parts of the continent, who report immediately to the Smithsonian
Institution. A small appropriation has been made by Congress for two years past,

<<<Page: 202>>>

to be expended under the direction of the Navy Department for meteorological purposes ; and Professor Espy, engaged under the act making this appropriation, has been directed to co-operate with the Institution, in promotion of the common object. Besides the aid which we have received from Professor Espy’s knowledge of this subject, the general system has been benefited in the use of instruments purchased by the surplus of the appropriation, after paying the salary of the director and other expenses.
During the last year, Professor Espy has been engaged in a series of interesting experiments on the variations of temperature produced by a a sudden’ change in the density of atmospheric air. The results obtained are important additions to science, and directly applicable to meteorology. ‘The experiments were made in one of the rooms of the Smithsonian Institution, and with articles of apparatus belonging to the collection which constituted the liberal donation of Dr. Hare. An account of these investigations will be given in a report to the Secretary of the Navy.
It was mentioned in the last Report that the Regents of the University of the State of New York, in 1849, made a hipaa appropriation of funds for the reorganization of the meteorological system of observations established in 1825; and that Dr. T. Romeyn Beck and the Hon. Gideon Hawley, to w eo the enterprise was entrusted, had adopted the forms and the instruments prepared under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Another appropriation has been made, for 1850; and the system has been carried, during the past year, into successful operation by Professor Guyot, late of Neufchatel, in Switzerland. This gentleman, who has established a wide reputation as a meteorological observer by his labors in his own country, was recommended to Dr. Beck and Mr. Hawley by this Institution, and employed by them to superintend the fittmg up of the instruments in their places, to instruct the observers in the minute details of their duty, and to determine the topographical character and elevation above the sea of each station.
The whole number of stations which have been established in the State of New York is thirty-eight, including those which have been furnished with instruments by the Smithsonian Institution, and the Adirondack station by the liberality of Archibald McIntyre, esq., of Albany. This number gives one station to twelve hundred and seventy square miles, or about one in each square of thirty-five and a half miles ona side. These stations are at very different heights above the level of
the sea. ‘They were selected in conference with Dr. Beck, Professor —
Guyot, and myself. The State is naturally divided into the following topographical regions, namely :
J. The Southern or maritime region.
2. The Eastern, or region of ite Highlands and Catskill mountains, with the valleys of the Hudson and Mohawk rivers.
3. The Northern, or region of the Adirondack mountains, isolated by the deep valleys of the Mohawk, Lake Champlain, the St. Lawrence, and Lake Ontario.
4. The Western, or region of the western plateau, with the small lakes. and sources of the rivers.

<<<Page: 203>>>

5. The region of the great lakes, Erie and Ontario.
I regret to state that no efficient steps have as yet been taken to organize the system of Massachusetts, for which an appropriation was
made by the legislature, at its last session. Ihave lately written to ae Briggs, urging immediate action, and offering, on the part of the Institution, to render any assistance in our power towards furthering so laudable an enterprise. No answer has yet been received.*
The observations: made at the different military stations, under the direction of the Medical Department of the United States army, have been partially re-urganized, and a number of new stations and several of the old ones furnished with unproved Smithsonian instruments. The head of the Medical Department of the army, Dr. Lawson, has assigned the general direction of the system of observations to Dr. Mower, aa New York, to whom we are indebted for the valuable aid which this extended set of observations furnishes the general system. ‘The immediate superintendence of the reduction of these observations is 1 charge of Dr. Wotherspoon, to whose zeal and scientific abilities the cause of meteorology bids fair to be much indebted.
The most important service the Smithsonian Institution has rendered to meteorology during the past year, has been the general introduction into the country of a more accurate set of instruments at a reasonable price. The set consists of a barometer, thermometer, hygrometer, wind vane, and snow and rain guage.
The barometer is made by James Green, No. 422 Broadway, New York, under the direction of the Institution. It has a glass cistern with an adjustable bottom enclosed in a brass cylinder. The barometer tube is also enclosed in a brass cylinder, which carries the vernier. The whole is suspended freely, from a ring at the top, so as to adjust itself to the vertical position. ‘The bulb of ae attached thermometer is enclosed in a brass envelope communicating with the interior of the brass tube, so as to be in the same condition with the mer cury, and to indicate truly its temperature. Each instrument made according to this pattern is numbered and accurately compared with a standard. In the comparisons made by Projessor Guyot, a standard Fortin barometer, by Ernst, of Paris, was employed; also a standard English barometer, by Newman, of London, belonging to this Institution. These instruments, for greater certainty, have heen compared with the standard of the Cambridge Observatory, and of Columbia College, both by Newman; also with the standard of the Observatory of ‘Toronto, Upper Canada.
The results of these examinations prove the barometers made by Mr. Green, according to the plan adopted by the Smithsonian Institution, to be trustworthy instruments.
The thermometers are by the same maker; and those intended for the State of New York were compared with a standard by Bunten, of Paris, and with another by Troughton & Simms, of London. ‘Those found to differ more than a given quantity from the standards were rejected.
+ _ ————
* A letter has since been received, and the system placed under the direction of this Institution.

<<<Page: 204>>>

The instruments for indicating the variation of the hygrometrical condition of the atmosphere, consist of two thermometers, of the same dimensions, accurately graduated. The bulb of one of these is enveloped in a covering of muslin moistened with water, and that of the other is naked.
The rain and snow guages, and also the wind vanes, are made under the direction of the Institution, by Messrs. Pike & Son; 166 Broadway, New York. The rain guage is an inverted cone of sheet zine, of which the area of the base is exactly one hundred square inches. This cone or funnel terminates in a tube which carries the water into a receiving vessel. The water which has fallen is measured by pouring it from the guage into a cylinder, so graduated as to indicate hundredths of inches. A smaller cylinder is also provided, which gives thousandths of inches, and may serve, in case of accident, as a substitute for the larger cylinder. ‘The rain gauge is placed in a cask sunk in the earth, with its mouth near the lev Al ée the ground.
The snow gauge is a cylinder of zinc of the same diameter as the mouth of the rain guage. The measurement is made by pressing its mouth downward to ae bottom of the snow, where it has fallen on a level surface, then carefully inverting it, retaining the snow, by passing under it a thin plate of metal. The snow is afterwards melted, and the water produced is measured in one of the graduated glass cylinders of the rain: guage.
The wind vane is a thin sheet of metal, (it might be of wood,) about three feet long, carefully balanced by a ball of lead, and attached to the top of a long wooden rod, which descends along the wall of the building to the sill of the observer’s window. It terminates in the centre of a fixed dial-plate, and its movements indicate the direction of the wind by a pointer attached to the rod.
The observer is by this arrangement enabled to determine the course of the wind, by looking down on the dial-plate, through the glass of the window, without exposing himself to the storm.
Besides the full sets of instruments furnished by the State of New York, from the appropriation of the regents of the University, the Smithsonian Institution has furnished a number of sets to important stations; and, in order that they might be more widely disseminated, we ave directed Mr. Green to dispose of sets, to individuals, at a reduced price, on condition that they will give us copies of the results of their observations; the remainder of the cost being paid by this Institution. A number of persons have availed themselves of this privilege.
To accompany the instruments, and for the use of those who take part in the Smithsonian system of meteorological observations, a a series of minute directions, prepared by Professor Guyot, has been printed by the Institution. It occupies for Ng octavo pages, with wood-cut representations of the instruments, and is accompanied by two lithographic engravings, to illustrate the different forms of clouds, and to facilitate thetr notation in the journals, in accordance with the nomenclature adopted by meteorologists. A set of tables has also been furnished for correcting the barometrical observations, on account of variation of temperature. <A set of hygrometrical tables, to be used with the wet

<<<Page: 205>>>

and dry bulb thermometers, and a set for the calculation of heights by the barometer, will be pr epared.
We may also mention, in connexion with this subject, that a series of preliminary experiments have been made, in the laboratory of this Institution, for the purpose of constructing, from direct observation, a scale of boiling temperatures, corre ssponding to different degrees of rarefaction of the air. With a thermometer, each degree of which occupies one inch in length of the scale, the variations of the boiling point corresponding to a slight change in altitude are found to be more perceptible than those in the length of the barometrical column.
A series of experiments has also been made for testing the performance of the aneroid barometer under extremes of atmospheric pressure. The instrument, as usually constructed, has not been found, from these experiments, very reliable though it may be improved, and thus serve as an indicator of minute atmospheric changes. I think, however, it will not answer for the determination of changes of atmospheric pressure of considerable magnitude.
For the better comprehending the relative position of the several places of observation, now embraced in our system of meteorology, an outline map of North America has been constr ‘ucted, by Prof. Foreman. This map is intended also to be used for presenting the successive phases of the sky over the whole country, at different points of time, as far as reported ; and we have been waiting for its completion, to commence a series of investigations, with the materials now on hand, relative to the progress of storms.
A valuable collection of returns relative to the aurora, has been received in accordance with the special instructions which we have issued for the observation of this interesting phenomenon. ‘These are to be placed in the hands of Captain Lefroy, of the Toronto Observatory, and incorporated with observations of a similar kind which he has collected in the British possessions of North America. An account in full of the whole series will be presented by Captain Lefroy, to be published in the Smithsonian Contributions.
The meteorological correspondence is under the charge of Professor Foreman. This is found not only to involve conedeaallle labor in the way of arranging the regular returns and sending the required blanks and directions, but also in the discussion of questions on almost every branch of -science propounded by the meteorological observers, w hich we think it our duty in all cases to treat with respect, and to answer to the best of our knowledge.
Researches, Xc.
Explorations.—The programme of organization contemplates the institution of researches in Natural History, Geology, &c.; and, though the state of the funds would permit of little being done in this line, yet we have made a beginning. Besides the assistance rendered to the explor ation of the botany of New Mexico, by the purchase of sets of plants from Mr. Wright and Mr. Fendler, as mentioned in my last Report, a small sum was appropriated, to defray the cost of transportation of the
articles which might be collected by “Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, in the

<<<Page: 206>>>

region of the Upper Missouri. This gentleman, a graduate of the institutions at Princeton, bad purposed to visit the remote regions above mentioned for the benefit of his health, and was provided by Professor Baird with minute directions as to the preservation of specimens and the objects which should particularly engage his attention. His journey was undertaken, and executed, under particularly favorable circumstances for exploration. _He was accompanied by his brother, Mr. Alexander Culbertson, for many years connected with the American Fur Company, who was familiar with the whole country, and had himself sent valuable specimens of fossil mammalians to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences.
Mr. Culbertson first visited an interesting locality called the Mauvases Terres, or Bad Lands, where his brother had previously found the remains of the fossils sent to the Academy. He afierwards ascended the Missouri, to a point several hundred miles above Fort Union. He returned in August last in renewed health to gladden the hearts of his parents and fr iends, with the prospect of long life and usefulness; but though he had withstood the privations and. exposures of the wilderness, he sank under an attack of a prevalent disease and died atter a few weeks’ illness.
He left. a journal of all the important events of his tour, which is thought of sufficient importance to be appended to this Report.
For a particular account of the interesting specimens which he procured, many of which are new and Thon enlnane I must refer to the appended report of Professor Baird. A part of the specimens, those of the fossil remains, have been referred to Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, who will present the result of his investigations relative to them, for publication in one of the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions.
Asmall : appr opriation has also been made to defray in part the expense of exploration, relative to the erosions of the surface of the earth, especially by rivers, and for investigations relative to terraces and ancient sea-beaches, under the direction of President Hitchcock. An abstract of these investigations, as far as they have been made, has been received by the Institution; and a full account of the whole, it is expected, will soon be ready for publication.
An exploration for the increase of the Smithsonian collection, particularly in fishes and reptiles, of which our knowledge is most imperfect, was undertaken by Professor Baird, accompanied by a number of young gentlemen, his former pupils. The result of this expedition, which cost the Institution little more than the price of materials and transportation, was a large number of specimens, including numerous species before unknown to science.
Experiments—A series of experiments has been made, during the past year, under the direction of Professor Jewett, to test the value of a new plan of stereotyping. It the result of these experiments be favorable, it is proposed to purchase the right to use the invention, for the purposes of the Institution. Should the invention be found to possess the character to which it appears entitled, it will not only be of much importance to the Institution, but to the world; and we shall have done good service to the cause of knowledge, by giving it our
5 countenance and assistance. Professor Jewett has found it especially

<<<Page: 207>>>

applicable to his system of stereotyping catalogues of libraries, by separate titles ; and in this way it will certainly be of great value, even shonld it fail in other respects to realize the sanguine expectations of its inventor.
The result of the experiments will be submitted to a commission of persons properly qualified to judge of its merits; and if their report be favorable, a small sum will be allowed for the use of it.
Besides the experiments mentioned under the head of meteorology, made by Mr. Espy, on the cold produced by the rarefaction of air, Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia, is employing articles of apparatus belonging to the Institution, in a series of researches on the phenomena exhibited in the air and ina vacuum by rubbing silicious minerals against each other. ‘The results of these experiments, with the drawings of the apparatus employed, he intends to present to the Institution in the form of a memoir for the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
Computations.
Occultations for 1851.—For the purpose of facilitating the accurate determination of geographical points in the United States, a list of occultations and the co-ordinates of reductions for the years 1848, 1849, and 1850, was prepared and published at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. Congress has since ordered the publication of an American Nautical Almanac; and as lists of occulations will form a part of this ephemeris, Mr. Preston, late Secretary of the Navy, directed that the expense of computing these tables for 1850 should be defrayed from the appropriation for the Almanac, provided the printing and distribution were at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. The same course has been authorized by Mr. Graham, the present Secretary of the Navy.
Copies of these tables, computed by John Downes, of Philadelphia, have been sent to all persons known to the Institution, who would probably make use of them in the way of improving our knowledge of the geography of this country. They have been furnished particularly to officers of the United States army, and other persons engaged in exploring our new possessions and determining their boundaries. All persons, to whom these tables were presented, have been requested to send the result of their observations, made in connexion with the use of them, to this Institution, or to publish them in some accessible journal.
Ephemeris of Neptune.—It was stated, in the last Report, that the orbit of the planet Neptune, established by the researches of Mr. Walker, and comprised in his memoir published by the Institution, gives the data for calculating an ephemeris or tables of the daily position of this planet, rivallimg in precision the tables for any of the older planets. Sets of these tables were computed and published for 1848 and 1849, at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution; but those for 1850 and 1851 have been computed under the direction of Lieutenant Davis, superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, and at the expense of the appropriation under his charge, while the expense of printing the tables has been borne by this Institution.

<<<Page: 208>>>

These tables are corrected for the perturbing influence of the planets Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, by deductions from mathematical investigations of Professor Peirce, of Harvard University. They have been used in following the motion of Neptune, by all the principal astronomers of the world, and have everywhere received the highest commendation, reflecting honor on the Institution, and on the science of the country.
Museum.
The act of Congress authorizing the establishment of the Smithsonian Institution contemplates the formation of a Museum of Natural History. It would not, however, be in accordance with the spirit of the organization, to expend the income in the reproduction of collections of objects which are to be found in every museum of the country. Natural history can be much more effectually promoted by special collections of new objects; by appropriations for original explorations and researches; and above all, by assistance in the preparation of the necessary drawings, and by presenting to the world, in a proper form, the labors of naturalists. In conformity with these views, it has been resolved to confine the collections, principally, to objects of a special character, or to such as may lead to the discovery of new truths, or which may serve to verify or disprove existing or proposed scientific generalizations. A number of special collections, important in_ this point of view, are mentioned by Professor Agassiz, in the Appendix to my last Report; and, for a more enlarged statement relating to the same subject, I would refer naturalists to the accompanying report by Professor Baird, to whom the charge of the collections of natural history has been confided.
A considerable number of specimens in mineralogy, geology, and botany, had been received previous to Professor Baird’s connexion with the Institution ; and since he has entered upon his duties, a large addition has been made to the stock, by the deposit of his own cabinet, and by donations from various sources.
The collection is principally rich in undescribed species of fishes and reptiles; and especial care will be taken, by Professor Baird, to enhance its value, by procuring, in all cases, as far as practicable, such speci mens as may help to solve questions of scientific interest. ‘The collection has been arranged in one of the rooms of the basement story, so as to be available to the student in this branch of science, and has already done service in this way, by furnishing the facts given in one of the memoirs of the Smithsonian Contributions. Though letters are constantly received requesting the Institution to purchase collections of plants, minerals, and other objects of natural history, yet we have — declined; in all cases, to avail ourselves of opportunities of this kind to increase the cabinet. Experience has, thus far, shown that specimens of all kinds will accumulate, from donations and exchange, as rapidly as they can be accommodated with room, and properly arranged. f
I have given, in my last report, the reasons why it is not thought advisable, on the part of the Institution, to accept the gift, proffered by Congress, of the great museum of the Exploring Expedition, and I have no reason to change my opinion on that point. :

<<<Page: 209>>>

For a detailed account of the specimens forming the Smithsonian collection, I refer to Professor Baird’s report, herewith submitted.
American Antiquities.
During the past year, we have received information of the locality of a number of mounds, and other remains of ancient art, in different parts of the United States. A gentleman is now engaged in the exammation of the mounds of Western Virginia, with the intention of presenting the results of his labors for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions.
The survey of the mineral land in the vicinity of Lake Superior has disclosed the site of an ancient copper mine, whence, in all probability, the copper of the ornaments, instruments, &c., found in the mounds, was derived. ‘The remains of the implements, and of the ore, as left by the ancient miners, are exhibited in place, and afford an interesting illustration of the state of arts among the mound-builders. The geological surveyors have promised to make accurate measurements and drawings of everything of interest connected with these works, and to present them, with suitable descriptions, to the Institution, for publication.
Mr. EK. G. Squier, during his sojourn in Central America, as Chargé @affaires of the United States, made some interesting explorations relative to the antiquities of that country, and has sent to this Institution five large stone idols and several smaller objects, as the beginning of an ethnological museum. For the cost of shipment and transportation of the three larger idols by way of Cape Horn, the Institution is indebted to the liberality of B. Blanco, esq., of New York.
For some remarks relative to the importance of forming an ethnological museum, I beg to refer to a paper by Mr. Squier, given in the
Appendix to this Report.
Apparatus and instruments of research.
[t is a part of the plan of the Institution to appropriate a small portion of the funds to the purchase of sets of instruments for physical research, to be used by the officers of the Institution, and, under certain restrictions, by other persons. In accordance with this purpose, I was requested, by the Board of Regents, to procure an astronomical clock, with the electro-magnetic registering a pparatus, to be lent to Lieutenant Gillis during the continuance of his astronomical labors in Chili. The clock has been imported from Germany, and is now in the hands of the instrument maker, to receive the registering attachments. The whole will be sent to Chili, as soon as the apparatus is completed. T regret that the difficulty of procuring the services of suitable workmen has delayed so long the completion of these instruments.
A communication from Lieutenant Gillis, informs us that the Chilian government has resolved to establish a permanent national observatory at Santiago, and that it will purchase the instruments above mentioned.
The Institution will therefore again, as in the case, mentioned in a former Report, of the purchase of a telescope for the same expedition, be the
means of promoting science without an expenditure of its income.

<<<Page: 210>>>

The apparatus for determining the elements of terrestrial magnetism, mentioned in my last Report, as having been lent to Colonel Emory, has been delivered to Colonel Graham, to be used on the Mexican Boundary Survey. ‘To replace these, the Institution has received permission to order another set, from London, at the expense of the government; and thus, by an addition to the number of instruments of this kind, the means of promoting the science of terrestrial magnetism, in this country, will be increased.
The purchase of standard meteorological apparatus, and also the in— struments which have been distributed to different important stations, throughout the country, is a part of the same plan. ;
During the past year a considerable portion of the apparatus constituting the liberal donation of Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia, has been repaired and fitted up; and we hope, during the present season, to complete the repairs of the remainder, and to place the whole in a proper position for exhibition and use.
Library.
It has been stated, that the programme of organization is intended to harmonize the several requisitions of Congress, and the resolutions of the Board of Regents, with a system of active operations, the influence of which shall be as widely extended as practicable. Though almost
every one will admit the value of libraries, and the importance of collecting in this country as great a variety of books as possible, yet it — may well be doubted whether the accumulation of a large number of books which are to be found in almost every library of the country, is, in the present state of the funds, to be expected or aimed at. It is believed that a portion of the income devoted to.the library, may be more efficiently expended in the promotion of the desired ends by other means, and hence, it was resolved to make special collections of books 3 particularly to procure such as are not in the country, and also, in order to render more available those which are now in our libraries, to prepare, as far as practicable, a general catalogue of all the books they contain.
In accordance with these views, Professor Jewett has devised a plan of facilitating the publication of catalogues of libraries, which bids fair to be of much importance to the literature of the country. This plan — has been submitted for examination to a commission of gentlemen well acquainted with the subject, and we have received from them a very favorable report recommending its adoption.
The propositions submitted to the commission for examination, were as follows :
1. A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate movable titles 5 and
2. A set of general rules, to be recommended for adoption, by the — different libraries of the United States, in the preparation of their cata-_ logues.
For a full account of Professor Jewett’s plan, and of the advantages anticipated from it, | must refer to his report herewith submitted. fa may, however, briefly allude to the leading principle of the plan, which

<<<Page: 211>>>

is to stereotype the titles of books on separate movable blocks. These blocks once prepared, and kept in a central depository, may be used for the printing of new editions of the catalogues for which they were originally made, allowing the inter position of additional titles in their proper order ; as well as for the printing of all other catalogues containing the same titles. The collection of the stereotype blocks of the titles of the several libraries will thus form the stereotyped titles of a general catalogue of all the libraries. ‘They will lend themselves to the construction of bibliographies of particular branches of know ledge, and will adinit of being arranged alphabetically, chronologically, or in classes, in accordance with any required system.
These blocks are not to be made in advance of a demand for their use. ‘They are to be gradually accumulated, by an arrangement, which, imposing only a temporary and light burden upon the funds of this Institution, will ‘effect the great public object desired, at the same
time that it diminishes to but mae of the present cost the expenses of publishing catalogues, and secures the construction of them upon a uniform and approved system.
The details of a plan so comprehensive may well be supposed to be difficult of adjustment, and not capable of being clearly described within the limits of a few paragraphs. ‘These, however, have been fully considered by a competent tribunal; andthe plan has received commendation and promises of co-operation, from some of the principal institutions of the country.
During the last year, the library has continued to increase by donation, by receipts under the copyright law, by exchanges for the publications of the Institution, and by purchase. It now numbers, in all, nearly ten thousand separate articles, and bids fair, from the same sources, to become a very valuable collection.
Though one half of the annual interest is to be expended on the library and the museum, the portion of the income which can be devoted to the former will, in my opinion, never be sufficient, without extraneous aid, to colleet and support a miscellaneous library of the first class. Indeed, all the income would scarcely suffice tor this purpose. Still, by means of exchanges, donations, and purchases, a library of great value may be collected and sustained ; and ae with the constantly i increasing library of Congress, the libraries of the Departments, and that of Geor getown College, will furnish a collection of books not unworthy of the capital of this nation.
From the report of Professor Jewett, it will be seen that a Gallery of Art has been commenced, and that it is already in possession of a valuable collection of engravings.
In this connexion, I may Pcation that at the last annual meeting of the Board a letter was presented from the Hon. Abbott eeecrice. informing the Regents that a portrait of Smithson had been offered through ine for sale to the Institution. This portrait, which was in the possession of the widow of John Fitall, a servant of Smithson, mentioned in his will, was purchased for thirty guineas, and is now in the Gallery of Art. It represents the founder of this Institution, in the costume of a student of Oxford, and was probably painted when he Was not more than twenty years of age. There is, also, in the pos

<<<Page: 212>>>

session of the Institution a medallion of Smithson, in copper, taken in after lite. It is from this that the head on the title-page of the Smithsonian publications has been copied.
Lectures.
During the past session of Congress a series of popular lectures has been given to the citizens of this place and strangers, in the lecture room of the Smithsonian building. These lectures, were delivered by gentlemen distinguished for their standing, and for their attainments in literature and science, who were invited for this purpose. ‘The interest in these lectures has heen sustained to a wonderful degree. They have been attended from the first by large audiences 3 Ap the results thus far indicate that considerable aood ~ may be derived from the diffusion of knowledge in this way, in a Seontral position like Washington, where persons from every part of the Union are found. Although the lectures appear to the public one of the most prominent objects : of the Tustitution, and although they are attended with much trouble and_ considerable expense, they really form the least important feature of the plan adopted. So long, however, as there is a prospect of doing good by means of them, it is due to the city in which the Institution is located that they should be continued.
Much complaint has been made on account of the size of the lecture room. It is certainly too small to accommodate all who have wished to attend. We have, however, endeavored, in several instances, to obviate this dificulty, by procuring a repetition of the lectures ; but this plan is attended with additional expense, and cannot, in all cases, be adopted. Should large audiences continue, it may be well to provide a larger lecture room in the main building, and, by removing the seats from the present lecture room, convert it into a museum of apparatus. This change, if thought advisable, can be made at very little, if any, additional expense; since the present wood-work of the interior of the main building is to give place to a fire-proof structure, which will admit of being arranged as a lecture room. Indeed, the original plan contemplated a room of this kind in the main building; but the arrangement of it was such as to seat scarcely more than the room at present used.
Many enquiries are made as to the publication of these lectures. In some cases, reports of them have been given in the newspapers, and it ~ will be advisable to extend this practice to all; but the publication, in a separate form, of lectures, which in many cases are not written out, and not intended by their authors as additions to knowledge, would be — attended with much expense and little useful effect. The Institution, in several instances, is doing better service, by publishing in full the original researches on which the lectures are based. The papers of Professor Agassiz, of Professor Harvey, and of Lieutenant Davis, are of this chara acter, and will be given to the world through the SmithY sonian Contributions. ‘ |

<<<Page: 213>>>

The following is a list of the Titles of Lectures given before the Institution during the last session of Congress, with the names of the distinguished gentlemen by whom they were delivered :
A single lecture on Holland, by the Rev. Dr. George W. Bethune’ ot Brooklyn, New York.
A course of lectures on the Relations of Time and Space, the Vastness of the Visible Creation, and the Primordial Arrangement of Existing Systems; by Professor Stephen Alexander, of Princeton, New Jersey.
A course of lectures on Science applied to Agriculture; by Professors J. F. W. Johnston, of the University of Durham, England.
’ Two lectures, one on the Tendencies of Modern Science, and the other on the Spirit of the Age; ; by the’ Rt. Rev. Bishop Alonzo Potter, of Pennsylvania.
One lecture on the Ability of the Individual to Promote Knowledge ; by the Rey. John Hall, of Trenton, New Jersey.
A course of lectures on the Unity of the plan of the Animal Creation ; by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, Massachusetts.
A course of lectures on the Tides of the Ocean and their Geological Relations; by Lieutenant Charles Henry Davis, of the United States navy: |
A course of lectures on Marine Algze or Sea Weeds, and also on the Morphology of the Vegetable Kingdom; by Professor William H. Harvey, of the University of Dublin, Ireland.
Two lectures, one on the Origin and Growth of the Union during the Colonial Period, and the other on some points of the History and Peculiarities of the English Language; by Professor Henry Reed, of the University of Pennsylvania.
A course of lectures on the Chemical Operations of Nature ; by Professor Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers College, New Jersey.
The first part of a general course, giving an exposition of the Dy‘namical Phenomena of Geology ; by Professor Henry D. Rogers, of Boston.
Whatever may have been the effect of these lectures in the way of diffusing knowledge, it is evident, from the character of the men by whom they were delivered, that they presented truths intended to elevate and improve the moral and intellectual condition of the hearers.
All of which is respectfully submitted : JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 214>>>

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1851.
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:
GrnTLEMEN: Besides the care of all the property of the Institution, and the responsibility of the direction of its operations, under the control of the Regents, the Secretary 1s required to give an account, at their annual session, of the condition of the Institution, and of its transactions during the preceding year.
In the discharge of this duty on the present occasion, lam happy to inform the Regents, that the Institution under their care is still ina prosperous eoniGen: and that since their last meeting it has continued silently, but effectually, to enlarge the sphere of its Tmfncnee and useful-
ness, and to elicit from every part of the civilized world commendations, not only of the plan of or ‘ganization it has adopted, but also of the results it has produced.
In my last Report I gave a brief account of the means employed _ to increase the income, so ‘thata in addition to the requirements of Congress in regard to the formation of a library and a museum, and the erection of a building on a liberal scale, operations of a more active character could be incorporated into the plan of organization.
During the past year the same policy has been observed ; and though the Gfficers of the Institution have been subjected to the inconvenience of transacting business in an unfinished building, and in rooms not intended for the purpose, yet this has been considered of minor importance in comparison with the saving of the funds. Every dollar now expended on the building lessens the amount of accr uing interest, and — diminishes the means of ‘producing results which are to affect the world | at large; hence the importance of an adherence to the plan of finishing it by degrees. Since the last session of the Board, it has, therefore, not been thought advisable to urge the contractor to a rapid completion of his work, and all the expenditures on account of the building have been made from the accrued interest of the current year, and from a portion — of that of the year preceding. There is, consequently, still on hand } the two hundred thousand dollars of eaainnalated interest mentioned in — the last and preceding reports. Of this, it will be recollected, $50,000 are to be applied towards finishing the building, and the remainder to be invested as part of the principal.
The importance of increasing the funds and of gradually developing the operations embraced in the programme, was set forth in the last — report. ‘The Institution, it is to be hoped, is not one of a day, but is to endure as long as our government shall last; it is therefore neces aa in the beginning, that we should constantly look to the future, and guard against the temptation, to which we are continually exposed, of expanding too rapidly.
By a resolution of the board, at their session in 1849, the Secretary was directed to petition Congress to take from the Institution $150,000,

<<<Page: 215>>>

and such other sums, not exceeding in all $200,000, as may have been or shall be received in accruing imterest or otherwise, upon the same terms as those on which the original bequest had been accepted. This petition was referred to a committee and favorably reported upon ; but unfortunately the press of business prevented Congress from acting upon it at their last session. The petition will again be renewed; and it is believed that so reasonable a request will meet with a favorable reception. It is, however, thought important that the amount should be increased, and that the sum of $250,000 be inserted in the petition, instead of that named in the resolution.
In addition to the $150,000 which the Regents thus seek to invest, there is still a portion of the original legacy remaining in England, as the principal of an annuity settled upon Madame De la Batut, the mother of the nephew of Smithson, to whom the property was originally bequeathed. Besides this, ]am informed, upon good authority, that the Institution is the contingent legatee of an estate of considerable magnitude, depending on the demise without issue of a single individual. We may also reasonably expect that if the affairs of the Institution are properly conducted, and its funds judiciously husbanded or properly expended on the legitimate objects of the bequest, other trusts will be committed to its care. It therefore becomes important that the hmit should be at least $250,000, so that the whole sum, including the original bequest, shall amount to a little more than $750,000. There can surely be no just grounds of fear that the income of this sum will be devoted to improper uses, so long as it is an essential part of the plan to produce fruits, the value of which can be judged by all who are capable of appreciating the advance of knowledge. 'This request is also in accordance with the policy adopted by the Institution of asking nothing from Congress but the safe keeping of its funds, and the appointment to its Board of Regents of gentlemen of intelligence and high moral principles.
The government has thus far liberally fulfilled the obligations which it imposed upon itself in accepting the trust. Not only has the original sum been permanently invested in the treasury of the United States, but interest has been allowed from the time of receiving the funds. Congress has also made several donations to the Institution, which, though they will not prove as valuable to us as could be wished, indicate a liberal intention. The first gift was the great museum of the Exploring Expedition, for the accommodation of which the larger portion of the present building was originally intended; the second was a grant of nineteen acres of land surrounding the building of the Institution; the third, a copy of every book published in the United States for which a copyright might be granted; the fourth and last gift was that of all the plates, manuscripts, &c., of the Exploring Expedition, for the purpose of publishing a new edition for distribution.
These donations, though made with kindly feelings and in a spirit of liberality, have proved singularly unprofitable. The maintenance of the museum of the Exploring Expedition would subject the Institution to an annual expense which would materially interfere with more important -operations. After expending several thousand dollars on the improvement of the grounds, it has been deemed best to return

<<<Page: 216>>>

them to the charge of the general government. Were the copyright act fully complied with, perhaps some benefit might accrue from it to the Institution; but in the manner in which it is at present observed, the expense of postage and of clerk hire in recording the titles and furnishing the certificates of deposit, has more than equalled the value to us of all the books received. Lastly, it has been estimated that the publication of a new edition of the expensive volumes of the results of the Exploring Expedition would cost at least fifty thousand dollars. Fortunately, it has not been considered obligatory on the Institution, except in the case of the copyright law, to accept these gifts.
Publication of Memoirs.
Since the adoption of the plan of organization, nearly fifty original memoirs, purporting to be additions to the sum of human knowledge, have been presented to the Institution for publication. ‘Though a number of these have been returned to their authors, principally on account of not falling within the restricted class of communications accepted for publication, yet they have generally been productions of much merit, and have evinced a surprising activity of mind, and manifest a growing attention in this country to original research. The probable success of this part of the plan of or ganization was not overrated; for, were the whole income of the Institution devoted alone to publishing the results of the labors of men of literature and of science, which otherwise would never see the light, it could be profitably expended. In this respect, the Rae sonia bequest supplies the wants which in Europe are met by richly endowed academies and national societies.
It will be recollected that each memoir is printed separately, and with a separate title and paging, so that it can be distributed to persons most interested in its perusal as soon as it comes from the press, without waiting for the completion of the volume to which it belongs. In this way, the author is enabled to present a full account of his discoveries to the world with the least possible delay; while, by the rules of the Institution, he is allowed to publish an abstract of his paper im the proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, or in “those of any other properly organized society.
The number of copies of the Smithsonian (onuabnsione distributed is greater than that of the transactions of any scientific or literary society ; and therefore the Institution offers the best medium to be found for diffusing a knowledge of scientific discoveries.
Every memoir published by the Institution is issued with the stamp of approval of a commission of competent judges: and in order to secure a cautious and candid opinion, the name of the author, and those of the examiners, are not made known to each other unless a favorable report is given 5 badcs in this case, the names of the commission are printed, as vouchers for the character of the memoir, on the reverse of the titlepage.
This plan. secures an untrammelled expression of opinion, while it induces caution on account of the responsibility which it involves.
Besides deciding on the fitness of original memoirs for publication, the Institution is continually applied to for information relative to almost

<<<Page: 217>>>

every department of literature and science. Respectful attention is always given to these applications; and when the desired answer does
not fall within the line of study of any officer of the Institution, it is sought for from those in whose knowledge and judgment we have full confidence. No inconsiderable portion of time is occupied in giving the information involved in the answers to these inquiries; but I am happy to inform the Board that in this service, as well as in that of examining memoirs, we have received the co-operation of a considerable number of the most distinguished individuals in our country, and in scarcely a single case has application for assistance in this way been refused. By the operation of the plan adopted, the -Institution can command the talents and the learning of the world, and with a small corps of permanent officers, or a sufficient clerical force, can discharge the duty ef an association to which subjects relative to all Branches of knowledge can be referred.
There is one class of requests which, by a resolution of the Bo: ied of Regents, we are directed to refuse, viz: those for the examination and approval of the innumerable inventions by which the ingenious and enterprising seek to better their own condition and that of the publie. Were it not for this resolution, originally proposed by General Cass, we would be overwhelmed with applications of this kind, and have forced upon us the business of the Patent Office. Besides this, the principal object of the erganization is the discovery of new truths, rather than the application of known principles to uscful purposes. Not that we would undervalue the labors of the inventor; but because practical knowledge has a marketable value which always insures its cultivation, provided the higher philosophical truths on which it is founded are sufficiently developed and made known.
-The idea is still very generally entertained that Smithson bequeathed his property to this country for the diffusion of useful knowledge*among the people, and that his intention would be best consulted by the expenditure of all the income in the publication and general distribution of tracts ou practical subjects. The adoption of this plan would be to dissipate the funds without beneficial effect. A single report of the Patent Office costs, in some instances, more than three times the income of the Smithsonian fund, which itself would be insufficient for the general diffusion of a single octavo page of printed matter. The property, however, was not left to the inhabitants of the United States, but to the government, in trust for the good of man; and not merely for the dice eh or diffusion of knowledge, but, first of all, for creating, originating, increasing it. Furthermore, Smithson does not confine his bequest to the promotion of useful knowledge alone, in the lower sense of the term, but includes all knowledge in wee liberal and philosophical design. The true, the beautiful, as well as the immediately practical, are all entitled to a share of attention. All knowledge is profitable ; profitable in its ennobling effect on the character, in the pleasure it imparts in its acquisition, as well as in the power it gives over the operations of mind and of matter. All knowledge is useful; every part of this complex system of nature is connected with every other. Nothing is isolated. The discovery of to-day, which appears

<<<Page: 218>>>

unconnected with any useful process, may, in the course of a few years, become the fruitful source of a thousand inventions.
That the encouragement of the discovery of new truths, the publication of original memoirs, and the establishment of new researches, are in conformity with the design of Smithson, is not only manifest from the terms of his will. but also from the fact, which has lately come to our knowledge, that he at first left his property to the Royal Society of London, for the very object embraced in this part of the plan. And what prouder monument could any man desire than the perpetual association of his name with a series of new truths? This building and alk its contents may be destroyed; but the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions, distributed as they are among a thousand libraries, are as wide-spread and lasting as civilization itself.
During the past year a number of memoirs have been accepted for publication, pad are either in the press or are waiting the drawings to illustrate them, now in the hands of the engraver. Iti is the duty of the Secretary, in accordance with the original plan of the Institution, to give a popular account of these memoirs in his annual Report.
1. The first is a memoir by Dr. Asa Gray, professor of botany in Harvad University, consisting of an account of a collection of plants made by Mr. Charles Wright, in an expedition from Texas to El Paso, 1 in the summer and autumn of 1849.
It was stated in my Report for that year that one hundred and fifty dollars had been subscribed on the part of the Institution toward the outfit of Mr. Wright, and that the plants colleeted by him would be submitted to Dr. Gray for examination and description. ‘The memoir now mentioned is the result of this arrangement, though it also contains notices of plants gathered by other collectors in adjacent regions, especially by Dr. Wislizenus i in the valley of the Rio Grande and Chihuahua, and by the lamented Dr. Gregg in the same district, and in the northern part of Mexico. ‘This memoir is a good exposition of the character of the vege-
tation, and consequently of the climate, of the regions traversed. :
Specimens of all the plants obtained by Mr. Wright belong to this Institution; and these, with sets collected by Fendler and Lindheimer, form the nucleus of an important and authentic North American herbarium.
2. Another paper on botany is by Dr. John Torrey, of the college of New Jersey, Princeton. It gives illustrations of the botany of California, and describes a number of new and interesting plants discovered by Colonel Frémont in his different explorations in that country.
Some of the plants collected by this intrepid traveller have been described in the appendix to his first and second report, but many are still unpublished. Of the collections made during his third expedition no descriptions have been given, except that two or three of the new plants were briefly ch aracterized by Dr. Gray, in order to secure priority of discovery.
In the memoir presented to the Institution, Dr. Torrey has given descriptions of a number of genera of new and remarkable plants, all collected by Colonel Frémont in the passes and on the sides of the Sierra Nevada. With regard to this publication Dr. Torrey remarks, that he had hoped that arrangements would have been made by the govern-

<<<Page: 219>>>

ment of the United States for the publication of a general account of the botany of California; but as there 1s no immediate prospect of such a work being undertaken, this memoir, on some of the more interesting genera discovered by Colonel Frémont, has been prepared. for the Smithsonian Institution.
The drawings to illustrate this paper have been made, at the expense of the Thstitution, by Mr. Isaac Sprague, of Cambridge, who, in the opinion of Dr. Torrey, ranks among the best botanical draughtsn nen of our day.
3. The next paper presents the results of a series of observations made in the years 1845-6-7, to determine the dip, inclination, and intensity of the magnetic force in several parts of the United States, by John Locke, M. D., professor of chemistry in the Medical College ot Ohio. The results presented in this paper are a continuation of a series derived from observations begun in 1837, and prosecuted annually for ten years. The first parts of the series have been published in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, and have been incorpor ated by Colonel Sabine in his contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism. A part of the observations given in this memoir were made at the expense and under the direction of the United States Coast Survey. Another portion was made in accordance with the direction of the Hon. Robert J. Walker, late Secretary of the Treasury, as a part of the investigations instituted for the exploration of the mineral lands belonging to the general government. This paper has been examined by competent judges, and recommended for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions, as an important addition to knowledge.
4, A paper has also been presented for publication by the executors of the late Dr. Troost, of Nashville. It consists of descriptions and drawings of avery numerous family of extinct zoophytes, to which the organic remains, called the stone lily, belongs. The vicinity of Nashville appears to be a remarkable locality for these remains; and the paper of Professor Troost describes several hundred species, of which two only have living representatives.
The memoir, however, is not in a condition to be published without revision, and additions to bring it up to the state of knowledge at the present time. This labor has been gratuitously undertaken by Protfessor Agassiz, of Cambridge, and Protessor James Hall, of Albany. The collection of specimens from which the drawings were made is now in the possession of these gentlemen, and the memoir will be published as soon as the corrections and additions are made.
5. The next memoir is on the Winds of the Northern Hemisphere, by Professor James Coffin. The design of this communication, in the words of the author, is “to answer the following questions, viz:
“qa. What is the average direction in which the lower strata of the air moves over different regions of the northern hemisphere?
‘““h, What is the rate of progress in the mean direction as compared ae the total distance travelled by the wind?
What modifications do the mean direction and rate of progress et ale in the different months of the year?
ne ie What is the direction of the deflecting forces that cause the modifications ?

<<<Page: 220>>>

‘‘e, What is the average relative force and velocity of winds from several points of the compass?
“¢f, How will the introduction or omission of the latter element affect the answer of the preceding quest tions?”’
The data used in answering these questions have been collected with great labor, and consist of Pay a ations made at no less than five endred and seventy-six different stations on land, and a large number
taken during numerous voyages at sea. The field of abaereanion includes a zone which Rasices from the equator to near the parallel of
85° of north latitude, and occupies a period, taken in the aggregate, of
2,800 years.
Several of the foregoing questions have been answered approximately by other writers, but never, it 1s believed, from as extensive an induction as is presented in this memoir.
This paper is illustrated by a number of maps and diagrams, which render its publication very expensive. It was presented to the Institution more than a year ago, but the appr opriation for printing was not sufficient to allow of its publication at that time.
6. ‘The lnstitution has also commenced the publication of an extended memoir, aoe of a grammar and lexicon of the Dakota language, the results of the joint labors during eighteen years of the Dakota mission, assisted by the most intelligent natives of this tribe of Indians. The whole has been arranged and placed in its present form by the Rev. 8. R. Riggs, of the American Board of Missions.
This work was prepared under the auspices of the Historical Society of Minnesota, and recommended by this association to the favorable attention of the Smithsonian Institution. It is designed to meet the
requirements of the missionary in his labor of diffusing the lght of
religion and civilization among one of the most numerous and important tribes of ‘Indians in the country. It also forms an interesting addition to ethnology, which will be highly prized by all devoted to this branch of knowledge.
A language i is not originally a thing of man’s device, or the result of
cony Sonal art, but the spontaneous production of human instinct, modified by the mental character, the physical conditions, and other peculhiaritic ‘s of the people or tribe among which it had its origin, or by whom it is used. . It is subject to definite laws of formation and development, and is intimately connected with the history of the migrations
and athliations of the people by whom it is spoken, ‘and hence becomes an object of interest to the student of the natural histor y of man.
In accordance with the policy of not expending the Smithsonian fand in doing with it what could be equally well done by other means, this memoir was first referred to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, with the hope that it might be adopted as a part of the materials of the volumes published under the direction of that bureau; but this was not found practicable, and the task was therefore undertaken by the Institution.
The memoir will oc scupy an entire volume, and would have been too much for our present income, had not about one third of the whole cost of publication been promised by subscription from the members of the Historical Society of Minnesota and the American Board of Missions.
The latter institution defrays the expenses of Mr. Riggs while he is en-

<<<Page: 221>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. PAI I's)
gaged in superintending the passage of the work through the press. It is a pleasant circumstance that in this instance, as well as in many others, the organization of the Institution enables it to co-operate with other institutions, and to assist them in their labors of promoting knowledge.
This memoir, which is now in the press, was referred for critical examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to Professor Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a report on the importance of collecting information relative to the different dialects now in use among the Indians.
7. Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, has prepared amemoir for the Institution, accompanied by numerous illustrations, entitled “ A Flora and Fauna within living Animals.’ It is an elaborate history of a most remarkable series of plants, in many cases accompanied by parasitic animals, foand growing, as an ordinary or natural condition, within the interior of the bodies of living animals. In some of the latter, it is stated, growing plants are never absent; and in a species of insects, viz: Papulus Cornutus, a forest of vegetation is always found covering the inner surface of the ventriculus or second stomach.
The plants of course are Cryptogamic, and are algoid in their character. Some are as long as half an inch, but usually they are very much smaller. They grow attached to the mucous membrane of the cavities in which they are fuund, and occasionally from the exterior covering of worms infesting the same cavities. Several genera and species of these plants are characterized under the names of Eucerobryus elegans, E. attennatus, Arthromitus cristatus, Cladophytum comatum. and Corynocladus radiatus.
The mode of growth and reproduction of several of the species has been carefully traced and fully illustrated by figures.
The researches are prefaced by some observations on the laws of parasitic life in general, which are presented in a highly philosophical manner, and entirely free from hypothesis—the whole forming one of the most remarkable papers on physiology which has ever been produced by our countrymen.
8. Lieutenant Charles Henry Davis, United States navy, Superintendent of the American Nautical Almanac, kas presented a memoir on the dynamic effects of the tides.
This memoir is a continuation of one presented by the author to the American Academy a few years ago, and is of much interest, not only in a scientific point of view, as connected with important geological changes, but also on account of its practical bearings upon the transformations which are constantly going on at the entrance of rivers, channels, and in the formation of headlands and promontories. Were our globe a perfect spheroid of revolution, surrounded by water of uniform depth, the tides of the ocean would consist of nearly perpendicular undulations of the particles of the liquid, and a mere translation ot form, without a transference of matter. But, in the case of a globe of irregular surface, covered with water of varying depth, the oscillations of the ocean must constantly produce currents in definite directions, which tend continually to change the position of the moveable materials which are found at the bottom of the sea, particularly as we approach

<<<Page: 222>>>

land. A part of the force of the particles of water forming the sinking —
swell of the wave, in the case of an obstruction to their free descent by a diminished depth, is expended in producing a current along the inclined plane of the surface leading to the shore.
Lieutenant Davis has entered with much ardor upon this new field of research, and after an examination of various parts of the shore of the United States, through a series of years, in which he was engaged on the Coast Survey, has succeeded in developing the laws of action which give rise to the changes before mentioned.
He finds that the tendency of the flood-tide is to transport the matter from the bottom of the ocean and deposit it on land. He is enabled to explain the character of the alluvial formations, to account for their peculiar shape, their comparative sizes, their accumulation, and to predict the results of certain combinations of circumstances on their future changes. The particular object of this memoir is to inquire into the mechanical operations of the tides, and the uses they may have served in the general economy of the globe in arranging the loose materials of the earth’s crust.
Smithsonian Reports and other publications.
Since the last meeting of the Board of Regents, the report of Professor Jewett on the Public Libraries of the United States has been published and widely distributed. It is impossible to collect at once full and reliable accounts of all the libraries of the country, and this report
is intended merelyas a beginning, to be followed by others on the same—
subject. It has been sent to all the libraries of the United States, with ithe request that its deficiencies may be pointed out and additional ma-
terials furnished to render it more perfect. The great interest which is ~
felt in this work is manifested by the amount of statistical information which has already been received in return for this volume.
A report has also been published on the Recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts. It is compiled from articles which have appeared during the last ten years in the various journals of science and the arts in the English, French, and German languages. Though this report is chiefly intended to benefit the practical man, yet it will be found inter-
esting to the general reader, as exhibiting the contemporaneous advance —
of science and art, and the dependence of the latter on the former for the improvement of its most im portant processes.
The accounts given in the report alluded to do not consist of descriptions of methods which have been merely proposed and published without practical verification. On the contrary, care has been taken to select such as have been actually tried, or such as offer great probability of success from the well established principles on which they are based.
The preparation of this report was entrusted to Professor James C. Booth, assayer of the United States Mint at Philadelphia, who associated with himself Mr. Campbell Morfit, of Baltimore. The work
has been executed in a manner highly creditable to the authors, and —
will, L doubt not, prove very acceptable to the public. Notes will be made of the new inventions of the same class, as they appear in the

<<<Page: 223>>>

journals, so that in the course of a few years another report of a simi-
lar kind, or one which may be considered a continuation of this, can be published.
Copies, at the mere cost of printing, paper, and commission, are offered for sale. The matter has been stereotyped, 1 in order to supply all the demand, and to reproduce this member of the series, should the subject be continued.
The progress, of the elaborate report on the Forest-trees of North America, mentioned in the last two Reports, was for some time arrested by the absence of the author, Dr. Gray, in Europe. He has now, however, returned, and will resume the preparation of the drawings, as soon as the funds of the Institution will admit of the expenditure. This work has proved a more expensive undertaking than was at first anti-
. ro) . cipated, and can only be finished on the original plan, by extending the
time of its publication over several years. It will form a valuable contribution to the botany and economical and ornamental arts of our country.
Dr. F. G. Melsheimer, of Dover, Pennsylvania, has presented to the Institution a catalogue of the coleopterous insects of North America, with references to the principal places of description. This has been put to press, but progresses slowly on account of the great care necessary in correcting the proofs. When printed, it will be of great service to the cause of American entomology.
Besides the reports, other works are in progress, among which may be mentioned a small volume by Professor Baird, consisting of practical directions for the collection and preservation of specimens of natural history. This will be illustrated with numerous figures, and issued as soon as the engravings can be procured. A part of the letter-press has been finished. It is especially designed for the use of travellers and officers of the army and navy who may be inclined to make collections for the Smithsonian Institution, but will be of general interest to the cultivators of natural history.
A volume of tables of use in meteorology and other branches of scientific observations, has been prepared, “under the direction and at the expense of the Institution, by Professor Arnold Guyot. The following are the contents of this volume, viz:
1. Thermometrical tables for the conversion of the scales of different thermometers into each other.
2. Hygrometrical tables giving the elastic force of vapor, the relative humidity, &c.
3. Barometrical tables for the comparisons of different scales, reduction of observations to the freezing-point, and correction for capillary action.
4. Hypsometrical tables for calculating altitudes by the barometer, and by the difference of the boiling-point.
5. Tables of the corrections to be applied to the monthly means to obtain the true mean.
6. A set of miscellaneous tables frequently required in physical investigations.
These tables supply a desideratum in the English language, and will doubtless be highly prized by all engaged in physical research. It is

<<<Page: 224>>>

proposed to extend their number so as to include a wider range of objects, and to publish them in parts to suit different purposes. Copies will be distributed with the quarto volumes of our publications, and sent to meteorological observers. The tables have been stereotyped, and may therefore be offered for sale at a low rate.
Since the date of the last Report, a number of separate memoirs have been bound together so as to form the second volume of the series of Smithsonian Contributions. The memoirs, an account of which has just been given, will be ready for distribution during 1852.
The second volume has been forwarded to all the colleges and other institutions specified in the rules adopted for the distribution of the Smithsonian publications in this country, and to all the first class libraries and principal literary and scientific societies abroad. Through the liberality of the members of the Senate of the United States and its officers, we have been enabled to send to our foreign correspondents, m addition to our own publications, copies of reports to Congress, and other works published at the expense of government. In return, the {Institution has received a series of flattering acknowledgments and valuable presents, not only of the current numbers of transactions, but in several instances of entire sets of all the volumes.
The promotion of knowledge is much retarded by the difficulties experienced in the way of a ‘free intercourse between scientific and literary societies in different parts of the world. In carrying on the exchange of the Smithsonian volumes, it was necessary to appoint a number of agents. Some of these are American consuls, and other respectable individuals, who have undertaken in most cases to transact the business free of all charge, and in others for but little more than the actual expense incurred. These agencies being established, other exchanges could be carried on through them and our means of conveyance, at the shght additional expense owing to the small mcrease of weight ; and we have accordingly offered the privilege of sending and receiving small packages through our agency to mstitutions of learning, and in some cases to individuals, who choose to avail themselves of it. The offer has been accepted by a number of institutions; and the result cannot fail to prove highly beneficial, by promoting a more ready communion between the literature and science of this country and the world abroad.
As a part of the same system, application was made through Sir Henry Bulwer, the British minister at Washington, for a remission of duties on packages intended for Great Britain; and we are informed that a permanent arrangement will probably be made, through the agency of the Royal Society, for the free passage through the English custom-house of all packages from this Institution.
The Smithsonian exchanges are under the special charge of Professor Baird, who has been unwearied in his exertions to collect proper materials, and to reduce the whole to such order as will combine security with rapidity of transmission.
The system of exchange here described has no connexion with that established between nanional governments by Mr. Vattemare. It is merely an extension of one which has been in operation on a small scale for nearly half a century between the American Philosophical Society.

<<<Page: 225>>>

and the American Academy on this side of the Atlantic, and the several! scientific societies on the other.
Ancient Monuments.
The success ef the first memoir published by the Smithsonian Institution has awakened much attention to American antiquities, and a number of communications have been submitted on this subject. Among these is one by Mr. William Pidgeon, of Virginia, who has spent a number of years in the exploration of mounds, and other ancient remains, on the upper branches of the Mississippi.
The results of his labors are of a very interesting character, though the facts contained in his memoir are too much mingled with the traditions received by him from the Indians, and with his own hypotheses, to be accepted as a part of the Smithsonian Contributions. After repeated conversations with Mr. Pidgeon, I was clearly of the opinion that his researches ought to be given to the public in some way, in order that his Biareume nes might receive due attention, and be corroborated or disproved by other explorers ; and I am pleased to be able to state that a gentleman of Washington has undertaken to arrange and edit these researches, and that they will be published in a separate volume for the benefit of the authors.
We have also received communications relative to mounds from Mr. Charles Whittlesey, of Ohio, from Mr. Titian R. Peale, of Washington, and Mr. William E. Guest, of Ogdensburg, New York. ‘The first. of these may be considered as supplementary to the memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis, describing works omitted in their survey. The second gives a plan and description of the mounds which formerly existed on the present site of St. Louis, Missouri, made during the visit of Major Long’s party in 1849 to that country, on their way to the Rocky mountains. ‘This sketch is now interesting on account of the fact that, in the 1 rapid progress of improvement, fhiese mounds have been nearly obliterated, and that they can only be preserved to science, as they existed more than thirty years ago, by this publication.
The third is an account, with drawing os, of ancient works at Prescot, in Canada West. The great size of the remains of trees which occupy the ground, evince the long time which must have elapsed since these works were constructed, and the entire absence of stone pipes and arrow heads has induced the belief that they are of a higher antiquity than those in the Ohio valley.
The last two contributions will form a single memoir, the plates for which are partially completed.
But the most interesting circumstance connected with the study of the ancient remains of this country is a recent action of the American Antiquarian Society of Worcester, Massachusetts. This institution was founded in 1812 by the zeal and liberality of Isaiah Thomas, for the purpose of collecting and preserving such manuscripts, pamphlets, and other articles as relate to the history of this country, and for the exploration and publication of its antiquities. It was at the expense of this society that the original researches of Mr. Atwater, on the mounds of the Ohio valley, were first published; and during the last two years

<<<Page: 226>>>

the condition of its funds has again enabled it to take the field, and to direct its attention to the remarkable antiquities in the State of Wisconsin.
These antiquities, it is well known, consist of representations, on a gigantic scale, of birds, beasts, and fishes ; and though many of them have been surveyed, and accounts of them given in the memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis, comparatively few of those which are said to exist have been explored or delineated. For this reason, the council of the society have engaged Mr. I. A. Lapham, an experienced engineer, to make the explorations and surveys and drawings of these mounds. He has been engaged in these operations for two seasons, and is now employed in making up an account of his labors.
To insure harmony of action in the cultivation of the wide field of research offered in the investigations of the ancient monuments of this country, the Antiquarian Society has agreed to present to the Smithsonian Institution the results of the explorations of Mr. Lapham for publication, and to reserve its limited funds for further explorations. The memoirs will be examined and revised by the society, and will be published under its auspices in the Smithsonian Contributions.
This arrangement is another pleasing evidence of the feeling with which the efforts of this Institution are regarded, and the willingness with which other institutions co-operate with it in the important work of promoting original knowledge.
Explorations, Researches, ec.
During the last year several minor explorations have been made in the line of natural history, partly at the expense of the Institution. The sum of fifty dollars was appropriated to Professor C. B. Adams, of Amherst College, to pay in part his expenses while making collections in the West Indies and Panama. For the sum advanced, an ample return has been made in new and rare specimens. Professor Baird and Mr. Charles Girard have also made explorations which have added to the collections of the Institution at a cost little beyond that of the expense of transportation.
In this connexion I may mention that Professor Baird has contributed the report on the vertebrate animals collected by Captain Stansbury in his expedition to the Salt Lake region, and facilities have been given at the Institution to a number of persons making scientific reports to Congress.
A series of experiments also have been made in our laboratory by a commission appointed by government to examine the stone proposed for the extension of thé Capitol. It is believed that the Institution may, in the aid it affords the government in scientific operations, more than repay all the obligation imposed by the acceptance of the Smithsonian trust.
It was mentioned in the last report that the specimens which were procured by Mr. Culbertson from. the Upper Missouri, had been referred to Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, for examination. He has since made a report giving a brief statement of the results of his investigation. From this report it appears that the speci

<<<Page: 227>>>

mens are of much scientific interest, showing, as they do, for the first time, the existence in this country of an eocene deposite, rivaling in the number of its species of extinct animals the celebrated Nees ot
Paris. Occultatons.
It has been mentioned in the preceding reports, that lists of occulations, and tables of reductions, have been published, from 1848 to 1851, inclusive. The cost of the computation of these tables, as well as that of their publication for the past two years, was borne by the Institution, but since then Congress has ordered the establishment ‘of an American Nautical Almanac; and as these tables will form a part of this ephemeris, Mr. Preston, the late Secretary of the Navy, directed that the ex-
ense of the computation should be defrayed trom the appropriation for the Almanac, the printing and distribution to be at the charge of the Institution. A similar order has been given by the Hon. Win. A. Graham, the present Secretary of the Navy, relative to the tables for 1851 and 1852.
The tables for 1852 are much extended by the introduction of occultations visible in every part of the earth. ‘The form is also somewhat altered, in order better to adapt it to the arrangement to be adopted by the Nautical Almanac.
The primary object of these tables is to facilitate the accurate determination of the longitude of places within the terntory of the United States; and in ee respect they have done good service, especially in the Bands of the officers of the Coast Survey, and the explorers and surveyors of our new possessions on the coast of the Pacific. Their extension will render them useful to geographers in every part of the world. They have been computed, for the present and the last two years, under the direction of Lieut. Davis, the accomplished superintendent of the American Nautical Almanac. As soon as this work, which will be an honor to the country, is ready to be issued, the publication will be relinquished by the Smithsonian Institution.
We observe again, in this case, the policy of not expending the funds of the Institution in doing what other means can accomplish.
It will be recollected that Mr. Sears C. Walker, astronomical assistant of the United States Coast Survey, prepared for the Smithsonian Transactions a memoir containing a determination of the true orbit of the
ta) planet Neptune, and that from this orbit, and the mathematical investiga-
tions of Professor Peirce, an ephemeris of Neptune was compiled. The ephemeris was prepared for the years 1848 and 1849, under the direction and at the expense of this Institution ; but for the years 1850, 5], ‘D2, it was computed under the superintendence of Lieutennat Davis, and at the expense of the appropriation for the Nautical Almanac, while the cost of printing and of the distribution has been defrayed by the Institution.
The ephemeris has been generally adopted by the principal astronomers of the world; and Professor Airy, the astronomer royal of Great Britain, has pacieniaked the labor, in his last volume of Greenwich Observations, of critically comparing his observations on the planet in

<<<Page: 228>>>

the heavens with the predictions of the Smithsonian ephemeris. From these comparisons it is found that the ephemeris gives the position of the planet with a degree of precision not inferior to that with which the places of the planets longest known are calculated. The labors, therefore, of Mr. Walker on the elements, and Professor Peirce on the theory of the planet Neptune, have been crowned with complete success. It is proposed hereafter to collect all the observations which may have been made on the planet, and compare them with the ephemeris, in order, if necessary, still further to correct the orbit
Meteorology.
The general system of pt now in operation in this country, and Bee abeds in the last Report, has during the past year been continued and gradually extended. The instruments constructed under the direction of the Institution, with the aid of Professor Guyot, have been further improved, and some slight changes, indicated by experience, have been made to render hem more convenient to the practical observer; and they may now be considered not only equal in accuracy to the instruments of the best construction from abroad, but in some respects superior. They are furnished with the means of ready adjustment to the standard instruments; and beingin every instance accurately compared before they are used, and the error corrected, the labor of inserting a correction in the journal is avoided. New efforts have also been made to obtain a still more accurate comparison between the standard barometer of this country and those of the more important European observatories. For this purpose a second standard barometer by Newman, compared with the standard of the Royal Society, and a Darometer by Ernst, compared with the standard of the Paris Observatory, were ordered at the expense of the Institution. By a long series of comparisons between these two instruments and others at Cambr idge, (Massachusetts,) ‘Toronto, (Canada West,) ahd Washington city, the object sought has, it is believed, been obtained. The thermometers also, constructed by Mr. Green, of New York, for the Institution, have been compared with European standards; and an important step has thus been made towards obtaining reliable results as to the absolute meteorological elements of the different parts of this continent.
It was stated j in the last Report that the regents of the University ot New York had made an appropriation for supplying thirty -three academies in that State with instruments, and had given the establishment of the whole system in charge to this Institution. The State of Massachusetts has also made a_ similar appropriation and arrangement. During the past year the instruments for this State have been constructed, and a part of the stations established under the care ot Professor Guyot.
At the last meeting of the American Association, a report was made, anda series of resolutions adopted, for extending the system of observations with the same instruments to other parts of this continent. These resolutions directed the committee to memorialize Congress for aid in extending the system under the direction of this Institution ; to request the Secretary of the Treasury to provide for

<<<Page: 229>>>

making observations at the several light-houses to be established on the coast of California; to ask the surgeon-general to establish new stations at important points; to memorialize the other States of the Union to follow the example of New York and Massachusetts, and also the Canadian government to co-operate in the same enterprize.
What may be the result of the labors of the members of the committee to which this duty is entrusted, it is impossible to say. They ean scarcely fail, however, to awaken a more general interest in the enterprise, and to receive a favorable response a some of the requests.
Since the date of the last Report, the system particularly intended to investigate the nature of American storms, immediately under the care of this Tastitution, has been continued and improved, both, in the number of the stations, and, in some degree, in the character of the instruments. An appropriation was made to furnish a larger number of stations than previously with barometers and thermometers, by distributing these instruments, in some cases entirely at the expense of the Ins titution, and in others by selling them to the observers at half their original cost; but the demand was so great, and the loss by breakage in transmitting the instruments so frequent, that the appropriations were soon exhausted, and until we can afford to devote a large sum to the object, and employ a special agent to transport the aielee to their destination, it will be inadvisable. to attempt anyt thing more in this way.
Though the instruments employed by these observers in some cases cannot be relied on for giving absolute results, yet they serve a good purpose in determining changes of pressure and temperature ; and the returns give all the varying phases of the sky.
Thus far, the returns which have been received from this * system have been arranged in folio volumes; and a beginning has been made in the way of de ducing general conclusions from them. which may test the value of the observ, ations and lead to their improvement, by suggesting other objects of inquiry. The results already obtained give promise of interesting and valuable additions to our knowledge of the nature of the storms which traverse this continent during tee winter seasons, and will probably serve to settle definitely several theoretical questions of much interest to the meteorologist.
The meteorological correspondence of the Institution is principally attended to by Professor Foreman, and the labor which this involves is sufficient to occupy the greater portion of his time. he letters received from this class of codperators are not confined to the subject of meteorology, but include the whcle domain of physical science. We consider it, as before observed, a duty 1 in all such cases to give any information required; and if this is not in the possession of the officers connected with the Institution, it is procured from other sources
For the details as to the management of the meteorological Bea of
oO the Institution, see Professor Foreman’s Ss report on this subject.
Library and Collections. It will be recollected that the income of the Institution was, by a
compromise alluded toin a former Report, to be divided into two equal parts, one part to be devoted to the formation of a museum, a library,

<<<Page: 230>>>

and a gallery of art, and the other to publications, researches, and other active operations. The terms of this compromise have been rigidly adhered to, as will be seen by a reference to the general statement of accounts given in the last Report. Up to the date of the appointment of Protesser Baird, in July, 1850, the part of the income devoted to the collections was expended on the library, or on objects pertaining to it. Since that time, a portion has been devoted to the museum.
It is proper to remark that this compromise was founded upon another, namely, that the cost of the building and furniture should be limited to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. But in order to the better security of the collections, the Regents have since found it necessary to add, in round numbers, fifty thousand dollars to this sum, which must of course diminish the income which would otherwise have been devoted to the active operations.
It is evident that one spirit, if possible, should pervade the hole organization, and that the same policy should be adopted with reference to all parts of the plan. Among the maxims which have been acted upon, that of occupying oround untenanted by other institutions, and of doing nothing with the funds which can be equally well accomplished | by other means, has commended itself to the intelligent and reflecting portion of the public; and it has always appeared to me that this is as applicable to the formation of collections of books and specimens, as to the publications and other operations of the Institution.
With reference to the library, the idea ought never to be entertained that the portion of the limited income of the Smithsonian fund which can be devoted to the purchase of books will ever be sufficient to meet the wants of the American scholar. On the contrary, it is the duty of this Institution to increase those wants by pointing out new fields for exploration, and by stimulating other researches than those which are now cultivated. It isa part of that duty to make the value of libraries more generally known, and their want in this country more generally felt; to show in what branches of knowledge our libraries are most deficient; to point out the means by which those deficiencies can be supplied ; to struct the public in the best methods of procuring, ar-
ranging, cataloguing, and preserving books; to give information as to the Rest form and construction of library buildings; in short, to do all which was originally intended in the plan, of rendering the Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge, to which the American scholar can refer for all information relative to books in general, and particularly to those in our own country. The libraries of the country must be supplied by the country itself: by the general government; by the State governments; by cities, towns, “and villages ; : ‘and by wealthy and liberal individuals. It is to ie hoped that in the restoration of the Library of Congress, a foundation will be laid for a collection of books worthy of a government whose perpetuity principally depends on the intelhigence of the people.
The proper management of books, and general instruction as to their use, are matters perhaps of more importance than their accumulation in any one place. It is estimated that about twenty thousand volumes, including pamphlets, purporting to be additions to the sum of human knowledge, are published annually; and unless this mass be properly

<<<Page: 231>>>

arranged, and the means furnished by which its contents may be ascertained, literature and science will be overwhelmed by their own unwieldy bulk. The pile will begin to totter under its own weight, and all the additions we may heap upon it will tend to add to “the extension of the base, without increasing the elevation and dignity of the edifice.
One of the most important means of facilitating the use of libraries, particularly with reference to science, is well digested indexes of subjects, not merely referring to volumes or books, Bor to memoirs, papers, and parts of scientific transactions and systematic works. As an example of this, I would refer to the admirably arranged and valuable catalogue of books relating to Natural Philosophy and the Mechanical Arts, by ion Young. “Ifmy lpr ary were on fire,” said a celebrated author, ‘ and I could save but one scientific book, it would be Dr. Y oung’s catalogue.’ This work comes downto 1807; and I know of no richer gift whieh could be bestowed upon the science of our own day than the continuation of this catalogue to the presenttime. Every one whois desirous of enlarging the peunds of human knowledge should, in justice to himself, as well as to the public, be acquainted with what has previously been done in the same line, and this he will only be enabled to accomplish by the use of indexes of the kind above-mentioned.
The most important operation during the past year relative to the library, is the progress made by Professor Jewett in completing his plan of stereotyping catalogues with separate titles, described in the last Report.
To reduce this plan to practice, a series of or aa experiments were required, involving the expenditure of much time and labor. For this | purpose, in preference to the usual method of stereotyping, a new one, invented by Mr. Josiah Warren, of Indiana, has been adopted on the recommendation of a committee to whom it was referred for examination. It is a fact well khown to inventors, that however simple the theoretical plan of effecting a desired object may appear, a series of unforeseen difficulties must often be encountered in the details, before the ideacan be realized inactualresults. These difficulties, in the present case, it 1s believed, have been overcome ; and the plan is now ready to be applied to the formation of a general and uniform catalogue of the libraries of the country. The course proposed is first to proceed with the catalogue of the library of the Institution, in accordance with the rules recommended by the commission appointed to report on this subject. his, stereotyped by the new process, may be distributed as a model for the other hbraries which may adopt the plan. After all parts of the plan have thus been thoroughly tried, it will be desirable to commence on some large collection. ‘The late accident which has happened to the Library of Congress will induce the necessity of a new catalogue, and it is hoped that a liberal and enlightened policy will lead to the ‘adoption of the Smithsonian plan. This will not only enable the government to issue, at a trifling expense, a new catalogue every year, with all the additions in fen proper place, but also to assist in giving to the country an improved system of cataloguing, and facilitate the production of a general catalogue of all the libraries of the country.
Since the publication of the account of Mr. Jewett’s plan of forming

<<<Page: 232>>>

general catalogues, the invention has been claimed separately by two individuals in Kurope. It is true, the want of such a plan has long been felt, and a general idea may have been conceived as to how it might be accomplished ; but no attempts have been made to reduce it to practice, and indeed had they been made, they could not have succeeded, and would have done injury to the cause. The conditions necessary to success never before existed, and a premature attempt always tends to lessen public confidence in an enterprise, when the proper time for its actual accomplishment arrives. Besides this, there is a wide difference between the mere suggesting the possibility of a plan, and actually overcoming the difficulties which arise at every step in reducing it to practice.
With reterence to the copyright law, something ought to be done to
ut the whole matter on a better footing. I repeat the assertion before made, that this law, as it now exists, imposes a tax on the Institution, without an adequate return. ‘The great majority of the books received are such as are found in almost every public and private library; with very few exceptions they would never be purchased by the Institution, and are consequently dear at any price, even that of shelf-room and attendance, not to mention cost of transportation and of furnishing the certificates.
Granting the proposition that it is important that a copy of every book originally published i im this country should be somewhere, preserved, it does not follow that the Smithsonian fund ought to be burdened with the expense of this charge.
If they should be preserved, it becomes the duty of Congress to provide tor their care, as much as it does for that of the modes of the Patent Office; and no good reason can be assigned why the one should not be imposed upon the Institution as well as the other. Indeed, models are a species of books intended to convey ideas which printing cannot impart.
The objection to the present arrangement may be obviated by adopting the suggestion of Professor Jeweit, that but one copy, instead of three, of each book, be sent to Washington for deposit, and that in place of the other two copies, a small fee be paid to the Institution, sufficient to defray all expenses; the maxim again being applied of not expending the funds im doing that which can and ought to be done by other means.
By reference to the report of the Librarian, it will be seen that the collection of books has continued to be increased by purchase, by copyright, and by exchange. From the last-mentioned source the Institation is obtaining a most t valuable series of books of the highest interest to the scientific student, consisting principally of the transactions and proceedings of ibapeed Shere een In a few years, 1 it is believed, as complete a ‘collection of these will be gathered as it is possible to obtain.
The museum is to consist, aceonains to the law of Congress, and the terms of the compromise, of ‘objects of art, of foreign and curious research, and of natural history, of plants and geological and mineralogical specimens. It would, however, be unwise in the Institution te attempt the formation of full collections of all these objects, or, in other

<<<Page: 233>>>

words, to form an establishment similar to that of the British Museum. The whole income devoted to this object would be entirely inadequate. The portion of the main building appropriated to the museum consists of a single room, two hundred feet long by fifty feet wide. This space may be entirely filled in the course of three years, without the purchase of a single article, if the means be adopted hich present themselves at the seat of governmentyor making collections. But when this space is filled, the accumulation of specimens must cease, or an addition be made to the building, which, to harmonize with the present edifice, would involve a large expenditure. The question then arises, from what source is this money to be obtained? It cannot be derived from the annual 1 income of the capital, for this would cripple the more important operations. It may be said that Congress will furnish the means; but this is relying on a very uncertain source, and the policy of applying to Congress for any aid is doubtful.
Furthermore, a promiscuous collection, embracing full sets of the objects above specified, is unnecessary in carrying out the plan of organization of the Institution.
For example, the organic remains brought from the upper Missouri by Culbertson, have been examined and reported on by Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, in that city; and the plants from California and Mexico have been referred to Dr. Torrey at Princeton, and to Dr. Gray at Cambridge. In this way, not only has the learning of these gentlemen been brought into requisition, but also their special cabinets rendered sins ean to our use. The co-operation of the learning and talent, as well as the use of the libraries and collections of the Sole country, is an essential feature of the plan, and ought not to belost sight of.
I would, however, distinctly disavow the intention of underrating the importance of mollecrionss in themselves. On the contrary, it ought to be the duty of the Smithsonian Institution to point out the means by which they may be made, and to aid in the work, to the extent of its ability, by embracing all opportunities which may offer for procuring specimens for distribution, and by facilitating exchange and assisting explorations.
Though the formation of a general collection is neither within the means nor the province of the Institution, it is an object which ought to engage the attention of Congress. A general museum appears to be a necessary establishment at the seat of government of every civilized nation. The navy, the army, and the whole corps of commercial and diplomatic agents in foreign countries, all consider it their duty to send to the seat of government of their own nation every object which may serve to improve or to interest the people. Indeed the government of the United States has already formed the nucleus of such a museum in the collections now in the Patent Office. An establishment of this kind can only be supported by government ; and the proposition ought never to be encouraged of putting this duty on the limited, though liberal bequest of aforeigner. The Smithsonian Institution will readily take the supervision of an establishment of this kind, and give plans for its organization and arrangement, provided it be requested to iis SO, and the means for effecting the object be liberally supplied.
I make these remarks ‘with reference to the collections, because I

<<<Page: 234>>>

am fully impressed with the fact that the tendency of the Institution will be to a statical condition, in which the income will be absorbed in the support and accommodation of objects of a doubtful or contingent value. There is even danger in receiving donations from individuals. The articles may be valuable in part, but may consist also of much which the Institution cannot weil afford to keep. Besides this, it is extremely difficult to discharge, acceptably, the duty of the curator of property thus acquired. Since the house-room and the income of the Institution for the accommodation and support of collections are limited, great care must be exercised in the choice of the articles, and preference given to those which are of importance m determining problems of interest, and which give promise of the ready production of new and interesting results.
For a detailed account of the additions to the museum during the past year, and the present state of the collections, must refer to ‘Protessor Baird’s report herewith presented.
In an appendix to this will be found a list of the doriations, with the names of the donors alphabetically arranged. These consist principally of specimens not generally found in other collections ; and though they may not be very, attractive to ordinary visitors, the student of natural history will find in them much of interest.
The circular prepared by Professor Baird, describing the method of
collecting and preparing specimens, and indicating objects especially desirable, has prov ed effective in procuring important contributions.
Among the objects which should be collected and preserved with care, are the remains of the specimens of the arts of the aboriginal inhabitants of this country, the contents of mounds, and the stone implements found on the surface of the earth. 'The implements and industrial products of the present tribes of Indians should also be gathered as the materials for the advance of the new and interesting science of ethnolpeat Of the contents of mounds, but a limited amount of specimens
exist; and as these are not, like the spontaneous productions of nature, Bi Oe in the process of reproduction, every article should be diligently sought for, and carefully preserved. Some additions have been made to the collections in this line.
The museum of natural history, besides plants and miner als, numbers eighteen hundred and fifty jars, containing specimens in spirits of peminal i, reptiles, fishes, articulata, eee ‘a, and radiata, amounting in all to twenty-five hundred species. Besides these, there are about nine hundred specimens of skulls and skeletons, and three thous-
and of skins of European and American birds. Lectures.
In accordance with the suggestion contained in the act of incorporation of the Institution, courses of lectures have been given during the past year in the lecture-room of the Smithsonian building, and the reports of these lectures are generally copied m the public papers throughout the Union. Though the plan of diffusing knowledge by means of lectures is too restricted in its influence to meet fully the liberal views of the Smithsonian bequest, yet there is no place in the

<<<Page: 235>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 229 wa
United States where such means will have a tendency to affect more minds and do more good than in the city of Washington. Persons from all parts of the country assemble here during the sessions of Congress. It was supposed, at first, that the interest in these lectures would soon die away; but the experience of three years has indicated no tendency of this kind. ‘This is in part owing to the constant influx of strangers and change of inhabitants. Besides this, there is in this city, in proportion to the whole number of inhabitants, a large number of intelligent persons, with moderate salaries, who gladly avail themselves of the means of improvement offered by the gratuitous lectures of ‘the Institution.
As an evidence of the high appreciation of the advantages which these lectures afford the citizens of Washington, I may mention that the corporation of the city has ordered, since the last meeting of the board, a bridge to be constructed over the canal at Tenth street, for the special accommodation of those who attend the evening instruction given at the Institution. This bridge, with a well-drained and welllighted path across the public grounds, will afford a direct and comfortable approach to the building from a central point on Pennsylvania avenue. ; .
In my last Report I meationed the fact that much complaint had been made through the public papers on account of the size of the lectureroom. It was the original intention of the Regents to construct a lecture-room in the main building, though, according to the plan proposed, the number of persons it would hold would scarcely have been greater than that now accommedated. This plan, however, was thought to be unsafe, because it was not proposed to make the interior fire-proof ; but since an opposite course has been resolved upon, a large lectureroom may with safety be constructed in the main building, and the present lecture-room, having temporarily served the purpose, may be applied to other uses.
The proper construction ef a lecture-room is, however, a problem of great difficulty, which in the pre&ent instance will be much enhanced by the form and peculiarities of the building. It must be well adapted to sight, to sound, to ventilation, and warming. A room might be constructed which would seat five thousand persons ; but we know of none such, in every part of which an ordinary speaker can be distinctly heard. Too much must, therefore, not be expected with reference to the new lecture-room, though every endeavor will be made to render it as perfect as the conditions to which it is unavoidably subjected will allow.
The selection of the lecturers, and the arrangement of the courses, have been found, in some cases, an unpleasant and perplexing duty. The gentlemen invited, as a general rule, have been men of high standing, and have been chosen on account of their reputation and moral worth, rather than with reference to their proficiency in the art of rhetoric. It is not the aim of the Institution in these lectures merely to please the ear, but to impart important truths which may be valued for their own sake.
Many applications have been made for the use of the lecture-room of the Institution for pay lectures and exhibitions of a private character ;

<<<Page: 236>>>

but these have in all cases been refused. The use of the room has, however, on several occasions been given to the faculty of Columbian College, and also for the meetings of the Teachers’ Association of the District of Columbia. The organization of this association took place in the Smithsonian building in 1850, and its meetings have been regularly held im the lecture-room from that time to the present. It is beheved that the spirit of the will of Smithson is properly consulted in giving encouragement and rendering facilities to these meetings. The association has been kept up with much spirit, and Iam sure that much good has resulted from the organization. Ht has served to cherish a teeling of harmony among the teachers, and to awaken a spirit of improvement relative to education and general kriowledge.
The following is a list of the titles of lectures given before the Institution during the last session of Congress, with the names of the gentlemen by whom they were delivered:
A course of six lectures on History as a science, and a single one on Poetry, by Dr. Samuel H. Cox, of Brooklyn, New York.
Two lectures on Induction and Association, by Dr. John Ludlow, Provost of the University of Pennsylvania.
A course of five lectures on Entomology, and one on the Alps, by Rev. Dr. John G. Morris, of Baltimore, Maryland.
Two lectures on the History and the Forms of the English Language, by Professor W.C. Fowler, of Amherst, Massachusetts.
One lecture on the Architecture of the Middle Ages, by Dr. A. H. Vinton, of Boston.
Two lectures by Professor 8. 8S. Haldeman, of Columbia, Pennsylvania, on the Mechanism of Speech, and its bearimg upon the natural history of the human race.
Two lectures on Geology, by Dy. Benjamin Sillimaa, sr., of Yale College, New Haven.
Secretayy of the Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 237>>>

Of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the year 1852.
To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :
GENTLEMEN: The object of the Annual Report of the Secretary is not only to present to the Regents an account of the transactions of the period which elapses between their successive sessions, but also to make such suggestions as may be important to the future management of the affairs of the Institution, and to state such facts in reference to it as may be interesting to the public, or which may furnish a connected history of its transactions.
Since the beginning of the Institution no change has taken place in the policy originally adopted with reference to the system of active operations. ‘The details of this plan were well considered, and its importance as the only means of properly carrying out the intention of the donor were fully understood at the first. The theory of the plan was expressed in a few propositions, which have been constantly kept in view, and acted upon as far as the law of Congress and other restrictions would permit.
This plan, although prosecuted under very unfavorable circumstances, has produced results such as to render the name of the Institution favorably known wherever science and literature are cultivated, and to connect it indissolubly with the history of the progress of knowledge in our times. As a proof of this we need only state the following facts:
The Institution has promoted astronomy, by the aid furnished the researches which led to the discovery of the true orbit of the new planet Neptune, and the determination of the perturbations of this planet and the other bodies of the solar system, on account of their mutual attraction. It has also aided the same branch of science by furnishing instruments and other facilities to the Chilian expedition, under Lieut. Gilliss; and by preparing and publishing an ephemeris of Neptune, which has been adopted by all the astronomers of the world.
It has advanced geography, by providing the scientific traveller with annual lists of the occultations of the principal stars; by the moon, tor the determination of longitude ; by the preparation of tables for ascertaining heights with the barometer ; and by the collection and publication of important facts relative to the topography of different parts of the country, particularly of the valley of the Mississippi.
It has established an extended system of meteorological investigation, consisting of several hundred intelligent observers, whoare daily noting the phases of the weather in every part of the continent of North America. It has imported standard instruments, constructed hundreds of compared thermometers, barometers, and psychrometers, and has furnished improved tables and directions for observing with these instruments the various changes of the atmosphere, as to temperature, pressure, moisture, &c. It has collected, and is collecting, from its

<<<Page: 238>>>

Doe EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
observers, an extended series of facts, which are yielding deductions ox great interest in regard to the climate of this country and the meteorology of the clobe.
The Institution has advanced the science of geology, by its researches and original publications. It has made a preliminary exploration, ot the reat eanle region on the upper Missouri river called the ‘ Bad Lands,” and is now printing a descriptive memoir on the extraordinary fossil remains which abound in that locality. It has assisted in explorations relative to the distribution in this country of the remains of microscopic animals found in immense quantities in different parts of the United States.
It has made important contributions to botany, by means of the published results of explorations in Texas, New Mexico, and California, and by the preparation and publication of an extended memoir, illustrated with colored engravings, on the sea-plants of the coast of North America.
It has published several important original papers on physiology, comparative anatomy, zoology, and different branches of descriptive natural history ; and has prepared and printed, for distribution to trav-
ellers, a series of Directions for collecting and preserving specimens.
It has advanced the science of niece magnetism, by furnishing instruments for determining the elements of the magnetic force, to various exploring e xpeditions ; and by publishing the results padbsc aeee made under its direction, at the expense of the government.
It has collected and published the statistics of the libraries of the United States, and perfected a plan of stereotyping catalogues, which will render effective, as a combined whole, all the seatiened libraries of the country.
The Institution has been instrumental in directing attention to American antiquities, and has awakened such an interest in the subject as will tend to the collection and study of all the facts which can be. gathered relative to the ancient inhabitants of this continent. It has also rendered available for the pur poses of the ethnologist and philanthropist the labors of our missionaries among the Dakotas, by publishing a volume on the language of this tribe of Indians ; and has done good service to compar ative philology by the distribution of directions tor collecting Indian vocabularies.
It has established an extended system of literary and scientific exchanges, both foreign and domestic, and annually transmits between the most erent Societies and individuals, hundreds of packages of valuable works. It has presented its own publications, free of expense, to all the first-class libraries of the world, and thus rendered them accessible, as far as possible, to all persons who are interested in their study. No restriction of copyright has been placed on their republication ; and the truths which they contain are daily finding their way to the general public, through the labors of popular writers and teachers. The distribution of its publications and its system of exchanges have served not only to advance and diffuse knowledge, but also to increase the reputation, and, consequently, ‘le influence of our country ; to pro~ mote a kindly and sympathetic feeling between the New World and Old—alike grateful to the philosopher and the philanthropist.

<<<Page: 239>>>

These are the fruits of what is called the system of active operations of the Institution, and its power to produce other and continuous results is only limited by the amount of the income which can be appropriated to it, since each succeeding year has presented new and important fields for its cultivation. All the anticipations indulged with regard to it have been fully realized ; and, after an experience of six years, there can now be no. doubt of the true policy of the Regents im regard to it.
I am well aware, however, that the idea is entertained by some that the system of active operations, though at present in a flourishing condition, cannot continue to be the prominent object of attention ; and that under another set of directors, other counsels will prevail and other measures be adopted, and that what has been done in establishing this system will ultimately be undone. It is true, there is cause of fear that the policy in this respect may be changed; for the system we are here considering requires constant exertion, and is little suited to the tastes and habits of those who seek place and position from mere personal considerations. There is cause to fear, also, from the experience of the past, that the general expenses of a large building, the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it, and the cost of collecting, preserving, and exhibiting specimens of nature and art, will so increase as to paralyze the spirit of activity. Furthermore, the proposition is frequently urged upon the Regents, by persons who have not duly considered the will of Smithson, or who fail to appreciate the importance of the present plan, that a large portion of the income should be devoted to the diffusion of a knowledge of some popular branch of practical art; and there may be some fear that a timid policy on the part of the friends of the Institution will lead them to favor such a plan.
To obviate these tendencies, it is the duty of the present Regents, if they are convinced that the policy of active operations is the true one, to endeavor to correct, as far as possible, the errors which may have been committed in the beginning, and to give the Institution such an impulse in the proper direction, that it cannot deviate from it without immediately arresting the attention of the enlightened public, both at home and abroad, who will not fail to demand, authoritatively, a sufficient reason for the change.
A promise has been made to all persons in this country, engaged in original researches, and who are capable of furnishing additions to the sum of human knowledge, that the result of their labors shall continue to be presented to the world through the Smithsonian publications. The honor of the Institution is also pledged to the scientific and literary societies from which it has received exchanges, in this and other countries, that it will continue to send to them at least an annual volume of Contributions, of a character similar to those with which they have already been presented. Itis on this condition that the library has been so richly favored, not only with the current volumes of transactions, but also, in many cases, from the oldest societies, with full sets of all the previous volumes of their series of publications. Besides this, the libraries of all the colleges and literary and philosophical societies of this country are supplied with full sets of the Smithsonian Transactions 5

<<<Page: 240>>>

and in this way a foretaste has been given of the fruit of the operations, which will tend, in some degree, to insure their continuance.
But if, notwithstanding all this, the Institution is destined to a change of policy, what has been well done in the line we are advocating can never be undone. The new truths developed by the researches originated by the Institution, and recorded in its publications; the effect of its exchanges with foreign countries; and the results of the cataloguing ‘system, can never be obliterated; they will endure through all coming time. Should the government of the United
States be dissolved, and the Smithsonian Fal dissipated to the winds, the “Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge”? will still be found in the principal libraries of the world, a perpetual monument of the wisdom and liberality of the founder of the Institution, and of the faithfulness of those who first directed its affairs.
Whatever, therefore, may be the future condition of the Institution, the true policy, for the present, is to devote its energies to the system of active operations. All other objects should be subordinate to this, and be in no wise suffered to diminish the good which itis capable of producing. It should be prosecuted with discretion, but with vigor; the results will be its vindication.
It was stated in the last Report that the Institution had been the contingent legatee of a considerable amount of property. During the past year the facts with reference to this bequest have been investigated, and it appears that Mr. Wynn, of Brooklyn, N. Y., deceased, left. a legacy to his wife, and the greater part of his property, valued at $75,009, to his daughter, a child six years old, with the condition that at the death of this daughter without issue, the property should come to the Smithsonian Institution. In making this bequest Mr. Wynn says, in his will: ‘I know no benevolent institution more useful and appropriate than the Smithsonian Institution at Washington.”
This circumstance is highly gratifying to the friends of the Institution, not because it offers a remote possibility of an increase of the funds, but on account of the evidence it affords of the liberal views of the deceased, and of his confidence in the proper management and importance of the Smithsonian bequest. The will of Mr. Wynn induces us to believe that the right administration of the Smithsonian fund will cause similar examples of liberality on the part of wealthy individuals
of our country; and in this point of view the responsibility which
rests on those who have the direction of the affairs of this Institution is greater than that with reference to the good which the income itself may immediately accomplish.
Though it is scarcely to be expected that many unconditional bequests will be made, yet the example of Smithson may induce the founding of other institutions which may serve to perpetuate other names, and increase the blessings which may flow from such judicious liberality. Man is a sympathetic being ; and it is not impossible that Smithson himself may have caught the first idea of his benevolent design from the example of our countryman, Count Rumford, the principal founder of the Royal Institution of London.
Bequests for special purposes, bearing the names of the testators, are not incongruous with the plan of this Institution. Lectureships on

<<<Page: 241>>>

particular subjects, annual reports on special branches of knowledge, provision for certain lines of research, and hbraries for general use or special reference, may be founded under the name of those who bestow the funds, and be placed under the direction of, and incorporated with, the Smithsonian Institution. The charge, however, of such bequests ought not to be accepted unless they are sufficient in themselves to meet the expenses of the object contemplated by them, and would not encumber or impede the legitimate operations of the Institution. For example: were a library of a hundred thousand volumes offered, it would be unwise to accept it were it not accompanied by the funds necessary to the erection of a building and to the proper support of the collection.
In July, 1850, a new system of accounts was introduced, which has been continued to the present time. According to this system, every p2yment is made by an order of the Secretary on the Treasurer, who, in turn, gives his check on Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs, with whom the semiannual interest and the other income of the Institution are deposited. As often as once a quarter all the bills are examined and referred to their appropriate classes, in presence of all the officers of the Institution. After the accounts are posted, they are referred to the Executive Committee for final examination.
By a reference to the report of the Executive Committee, it will be seen that the funds are in a good condition, and that, although during the past year $14,047 have been paid on the building, there is still on hand, after all the expenditures for publications and other purposes, besides the original bequest, upwards of $200,000 of accrued interest. It is to be regretted that Congress has not yet acted on the petition requesting the perpetual funding of $150,000 of the last-mentioned sum. It is highly important that this money should be permanently invested as a part of the principal, so that it can neither be lost nor expended. There are no other means of effectually accomplishing this result except by funding it in the treasury of the United States. ‘The proposition should be pressed upon Congress, though there may be, at present, no very certain prospect of success; for, if the petition be refused, and the money be afterwards lost by improper mvestment or injudicious expenditure, the responsibility would, in part, rest with the government.
The charge of this fund, and of all the disbursements, is attended
with much solicitude. It involves a degree of responsibility which,
to a person unaccustomed to large financial transactions, is very onerous. I beg leave, however, in this place, to mention the obligation which the Institution is under to W. W. Corcoran, Esq., for the aid which he has, in all cases, afforded in the management of the funds, and the judicious advice which he has always given relative to their investment.
From the report of the Building Committee it appears that the contract for finishing the interior of the wings and ranges, and the rooms of the towers, has been completed. The whole interior of the main building, comprising a rectangular space of two hundred feet long, fifty wide, and about sixty high, remains to be finished with fire-proof materials. It is proposed to divide this space into two stories and a

<<<Page: 242>>>

basement; these stories to be devoted to the library, the museum, and a large and convenient lecture-room.
The business of the Institution would be much facilitated were this part of the building completed. Since Congress has authorized the establishment of a library and museum, it will be well to place all the objects of interest to the public in the main building, and make this exclusively the show part of the establishment, devoting the wings and ranges, and rooms of the towers, to the business operations and other purposes of the Institution. In the present condition of affairs there is no part of the edifice to which the public has not access, and, consequently, business has to be transacted amidst constant interruptions. The loss of time and effective life to which all are exposed who occupy a position of notoriety in the city of Washington, is truly lamentable ; ‘and where this is increased by facility of access to gratify mere curiosity, the evil becomes scarcely endurable. Progress in business, under such circumstances, can only be made by an Saarernclmct on the hours usually allotted to rest, and that, too, at the expense of wasted energies and shortened days.
Publications.
During the past year the following memoirs, described in the previous Repor ts, have been collected into volumes and distributed to public institutions in this country and abroad:
1. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism.
2. Researches on Electrical Rheometry.
3. Contributions to the Natural History of the Fresh-water Fishes of
North America. 4. First part of the Marine Algve of the coast of the United States. 5. Plantae Wrightiane Texano-Neo-Mexicane, Part I. 6. Law of Deposit of the Flood Tide, its dynamical action and office. 7. Description of Ancient Works in Ohio. 8. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1852. 9. A Grammar and Dictionary of the Dakota language.
The memoir last mentioned occupies an entire vole the fourth of
the Smithsonian series of Contributions. The other memoirs are contained in the third volume of the same series.
The remaining memoirs, described in the last Report, are still in the press, the printing of them having been delayed by the exhaustion of the appropriation for the year, and by several necessary corrections. A sufficient number of papers will, however, be printed in the course of a few months, with the new appropriation, to complete the fifth volume of Contributions; and if the means prove sufficient, we can readily issue ia sixth volume during the present year.
The result of the plan of publication has fully ‘realized the anticipations which were entertained of its usefulness. It supplies the food it feeds upon. The appearance in the Contributions of a memoir on any subject immediately directs attention to that subject, and induces other laborers to engage in the same field of exploration. This is particularly manifest in 1 the interest awakened with regard to the antiqui-

<<<Page: 243>>>

ties of our country, and to the language of the Indian tribes, by the ublications of the Institution on these subjects.
The following is an account of the memoirs received since the date of the last Report:
1. Contributions to the History of the Marine Algze of North America.— By Dr. W. H. Harvey: Part II.
In the Report for 1850, an aceount was given of the acceptance for publication of an extended and expensive memoir of the Marine Algae of the eastern and southern coasts of the United States, by Prob Harvey, of the University of Dublin. ‘The first part of this memoir was published last spring, and has found much favor with the botanical} world, as well as with the inhabitants and visitors of our sea-board. The second part of the same memoir is now printed, and will be ready for distribution in the course of a few weeks. It is illustrated by twenty-four plates, and comprises 240 pages of printed matter.
The common name ‘of the class of plants which forms the subject of this memoir, viz: sea-weeds, has subjected the Institution to the charge of expending its funds on trifling and unworthy objects; and as: the same objection may be made to many of the papers forming the series of Smithsonian Contributions, a few words in vindication of Prosearehes of this character may not be 1 inappr opriate.
Nothing in the whole system of nature is isolated or unimportant. The fal! of a leaf and the motion of a planet are governed by the same laws. The structure of a lichen and the formation of an oak are equally the result of definite plans. It is in the study of objects, considered trivial and unworthy of notice by the casual observer, that genius finds the most important and interesting phenomena. It was in ihe investigation of the varying colors of fhe soap-bubble that Newton detected the remarkable fact of the fits of easy reflection and easy refraction presented by a ray of hight in its passage through space, and upon which he established the fundamental principle of the present generalization of the undulatory theory of light. Smithson himself, the founder of this Institution, considered the analysis of a tear as nowise unworthy of his peculiar chemical skill; and well might he so consider it; for the knowledge of the composition of every secretion of the body is of importance, ma physiological point of view, as well as in the preser vation of health and the cure of disease. The study of the cause of the spasmodic muscular contraction of a frog, when brought ito contact with two pieces of metal, revealed to Galvani the first facts of the branch of science which now bears his name. The micr oscopic organization of animals and plants 1 is replete with the highest instruction ; and, surely, in the language of one of the fathers of modern physical science, ‘nothing can be unworthy of
o being investigated by man whieh was thought worthy of being created by Gop.”
These rernarks are particularly applicable to the study of the lower classes of the organic creation. Nature everywhere exhibits economy of means in attaining the most complex and diversified ends. Every result is produced in the simplest manner when viewed in relation to the whole design. All parts of organized beings, whether plants or
animals, are formed of a few elementary structures, variously trans~

<<<Page: 244>>>

formed and combined. To obtain a knowledge of the plan and process of organization, we must begin with the most simple combinations, precisely as*we would do in the stady of mathematical analyses, in which the student commences with the least complicated formule, and gradually proceeds to those ef a more involved character. It is for this reason that the study of the algze, or sea-weeds, is of special imterest to the physiologist. The framework of every vegetable is built up of cells or little membranous sacks. All vegetable structures, whether wood, bark, or leaves, are formed of aggregations of these cells, differently moulded and united. As we pass along the series of organized ferms, we may descend from those of a higher to those of a lower complexity, until, in the class ef algae, we arrive at plants of which the whole body is composed of a few cells strung together ; and finally at others, the simplest of organized bodies, ahoee entire framework is a single cell. Now, it is “only by a critical study of these rudimentary forms, and by tracing them into their complex combinations, that mam can ever hope to arrive at. a knowledge of the laws of organization. “We.might speak of the importance of a knowledge of the algze in their application to agriculture and the chemical arts ; but what we have here stated will be a sufficient reason for their study, independent of all minor considerations.
2. The next memoir consists of an account of a series of researches in the comparative anatomy of the frog, by Dr. Jeffries Wyman, of Cambridge, Massachusetts.
The whole animal kingdom may in one sense be considered as the different development of four separate plans of organization, giving rise to four different classes of animals, viz: the Radiata, the Articulata, Moilusca, and Vertebrata. Whatever discovery is made with regard | to the organization of any of the species belonging to any one of these
{o) classes, tends to throw light on the or Poni anien of the whole class;
and it is only by the baal study of Pal the different animals of: a class, and a comparison of their analogous parts, that we can arrive at . a knowledge of the general laws which control the development of the whole. Thus the study of human anatomy is the basis of the investigation of the anatomy of all animals with a back-bone; and conversely, the anatomy of any animal of this class tends to throw light on that of man.
Dr. Wyman’s paper gives an account of a series of elaborate investigations of the nervous system of a very common, but, in a physiological point of view, highly interesting animal.
"The following are the several points of the memoir:
(1.) An anatomical description of the more important parts of the nervous system.
(2.) Comparisons between them and the corresponding organs of other animals, both higher and lower in the scale.
(3.) The metamorphoses which they undergo, especially the spinal chord and some of the cranial nerves, ‘showing the existence of a more complete analogy between the immature condition of Batrachian reptiles and the class of fishes, than has hitherto been noticed.
(4.) An application of the facts observed in connexion with the cranial nerves to the philosophical anatomy of the nervous system, showing

<<<Page: 245>>>

what is believed to be the true nature of the special sense nerves, as contrasted with other cranial or the true spinal nerves, and the conformity of the other cranial nerves to the common spinal type. -
3. The next communication has the following title: “ Plantae Wrightiane T'exano-Neo-Mexican, Part Il.—By Dr. Asa Gray, Professor of Botany in Harvard University.”
It has been stated in two of the preceding Reports that a small appropriation Was made for botanical explorations in ieee and New Mexico, and that the results had been placed in the hands of Dr. Gray for scientific investigation. The first memoir on this subject was described in the last Report. It has been printed, and copies distributed to all the working botanists in this country and Europe. It also forms a part of the third volume of the ‘¢ Smithsonian Contributions.”
The object of the present memoir is to give a scientific account of the collections made by Mr. Wright, under the direction of Col. J. D. Graham, U. 8. Topographical Engineers, and Major W. H. Emory, of the Boundary Commission, in. New Mexico and in Eastern Texas, during the summer and autumn of 185], and the spring and early part of tye summer of 1852.
The description of the plants from this region was a a carried as far as the order Composite. In the present paper Dr. Gray gives a similar account of the recent collections up to the same point, and reserves the other portions of these collections made by Mr. Wright, with the remainder of the undescribed plants of Fendler and Lindheimer, to be described in a general memoir. One portion of the collection was made from July to November, from El Paso to the Copper Mines of Santa Rita del Cobre, in the southwestern part of New Mexico; and thence into the northern part of the Mexican State of Sonora, as far as Santa Cruz, returning to the Copper Mines by way of Guadalupe Pass, and thence back to El Paso. The plants obtained during this tour are of exceeding interest, and comprise a larger portion of new species than any other collection that has fallen into Dr. Gray’s hands. Another portion was obtained in the vicinity of El Paso and the rancho of Frontera, and down the Rio Grande for sixty or seventy miles ; also, up the valley of the river as far as Camp Fillmore, and there into the Organ mountains, which bound the valley on the east. Another collection was made in a hasty excursion to Lake St. Marie and Lake Guztman, in Chihuahua. These several collections afford many novelties, no botanist having previously explored this region at the same season of the year.
It is expected that a full account of the topography and productions of this country will be given in the reports of Colonel Graham and Major Enory.
The interest which attaches to the results of explorations of this kind is not confined to the botanist, but extends to the physical geographer and the political economist. An accurate description of tine botany of a region is a sure guide to a knowledge of its power of producing and sustaining vegetable and animal lite, and consequently of its value in a commercial and political point of view.
4. Dr. Leidy, of Ayes has presented a memoir on the extinct species of the ox of America. In this paper he indicates the former

<<<Page: 246>>>

existence of four species of the ox, which were probably contemporaneous with the Mastadon and the Megalonyx. Fossil remains of these animals have been frequently found in the United States, and descriptions of them are scattered through various works; but no approach has betore been made to a correct view of the number and character of the species. The present existing species of ox are found indigenous in every part of the world except South America and Australias and this is the more remarkable, because the domestic ox introduced into the former country by Europeans exists in immense herds on the pampas in a wild state. There is a similar fact with regard to the horse. America, at the period of its discovery, possessed no ) indigenous quadruped of this kind, though the climate is highly favorable to ‘its @Xistence, and the remains of Swe extinct species are frequently found. Two of the species of ox described by Dr. Leidy belong to the genus Bison, and one of these is of gigantic size. The ‘other two species belong to a new genus called Bootherium.
5. Another memoir presented by the same author forms an interesting addition to our knowledge of f the extinct gigantic sloth tribe of North America. It comprises a description of remains of the Megalonyz, Mylodon, Megatherium, and of a new genus called Eriptodon.
The scientific world is indebted for the first account of the remains of a large extinct quadruped of the sloth tribe to President Jefferson. Fragments of the bones of this animal were found in a saltpetre cave in Greenbrier county, Virginia. They were regarded with little or no interest by the persons ee first observed them, and, as they encumbered the saltpetre bed, would probably have been thrown out and suffered to decay, had not the news of their existence reached the ears of the distinguished individual before mentioned. Though devoted to politics, he was too much of a philosopher not to see in these mouldering fragments of a skeleton objects of high interest connected with the past history of our globe. He described them in a memoir published in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia in 1797, and gave to the animal to which they belong the name of Megalonyz, or the oreat claw. The materials in his possession, however, were too scanty to allow of his determining the true character of the quadruped. Dr. Wistar, of Philadelphia, suspected the animal to have been a gigantic sloth; and this opinion was confirmed by Cuvier, from the ample materials for comparison at his command. The original bones described by Jefferson are preserved in the collection of the Philosophical Society ; but, besides these, Dr. Leidy had access to specimens of the remains of the same animal, found in different parts of the United States. From the study of these he has been enabled to throw much additional light upon the characters of the Megalonyx. He considers that the only remains of this animal yet known are those found in the United States, and satisfactorily proves that the lower jaw of an extinct quadruped, discovered by Dr. Darwin in South America, and referred by naturalists to the Megalonyx of Jetferson, does not belong to an animal of the same genus.
The remains of fee Mylodon, or gigantic sloth, were first discovered by Darwin in his researches in the Eouthens part of South America. Remains of another species found in North America were described

<<<Page: 247>>>

by Dr. Harlan, but were erroneously referred to the Megalonyx. Dr. Leidy, in his memoir, describes the collection of the remains of this animal belonging to the New York Lyceum.
The Megatherium, which is the largest of all the extinct sloth tribe, when full grown, was more than fourteen feet long, including the tail, and eight teet high. It was first discovered in South America, but has since been found in Georgia; and it was from this locality, the only one in the United States yet known, that the remains described by Dr. Leidy were obtained.
The fourth and new genus of American sloths, called the Evzptodon by the author, is established upon a peculiar form of teeth which belonged to an animal of about the size of the Megalonyz, the bones of which were also found in Georgia.
Dr. Hays, one of the commission to which this memoir was submitted, remarks in his report, that “the author has not only made valuable additions to our knowledge of an interesting tribe of animals, but has also collected and arranged the facts previously known so as to throw new light on the subject, and to render his memoir an important starting-point for future investigators.”
Grammar of the Choctaw language.
The publication of the volume on the Dakota language, described in the last Report, has called forth another important memoir on comparative philology, namely, a Grammar of the Choctaw language, by the Rev. Harvey Byington, for thirty years a missionary among the Indians.
It was referred for examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, and to Professor Gibbs, @f Yale College, both of whom pronounced it an important addition to ethnology, and warmly recommended its
ublication. The work was afterwards placed in the hands of Protr W. W. Turner, formerly Professor of Hebrew in the New York Theological Seminary, now librarian of the United States Patent Office. Previous to sending it to the press, the author, after numerous interviews with Professor Turner, concluded that his memoir was susceptible of so much improvement by a further study of the language, that he asked leave to withdraw it for a time. This request was of course granted, and Mr. Byington has returned to his missionary labors, and will again present the work after it has received the desired improvements.
Reports and other minor publications.
Since the date of the last Report to the Regents, the following articles have been printed and partially distributed:
1. Directions for making Collections in Natural History. This is a et of twenty-four pages, by Professor Baird, and is much called or by the correspondents of the Institution.
2. A work by Professor Jewett, containing an exposition of the system adopted by the Smithsonian Institution for constructing catalogues of libraries, by means of separate stereotype titles, with rules for the

<<<Page: 248>>>

guidance of librarians, and examples for illustration. This work is comprised in seventy-eight pages, and though not large, it has been produced at the expense of much time and labor.
3. A second emission of the Report on the Recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts has been printed, and in part distributed. ‘This work is stereotyped, and therefore copies can be supplied at any time, at a comparatively small cost.
4, A Description of the Portraits of the North American Indians in the gallery of the Smithsonian Institution, by the painter of the portraits, J. M. Stanley, esq. This is a pamphlet of seve nty-six pages, and contains brief sketches of the characters and incidents in the history of forty-three different tribes of Indians.
5. The first part of the collection of tables to facilitate meteorological and other calculations, by Professor Guyot: this was mentioned in the last Report, and has been ste reotyped and distributed. It is a very acceptable present to the meteorological observers of the Institution, and other persons engaged in scientific investigations.
Several reports on “different subjects are in progress of preparation ; but the appropriation for this part of the programme of operations is at present so small, that the completion of them has not been urged upon the authors. ‘The first part of the report on forest trees, by Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, will be ready for the press the latter part of the present or begining of the next year.
Distribution of publications and exchanges.
Copies of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge are sent to all the first-class libraries and literary and _ scientific societies of the world, and in return the Institution receives an equivalent in 'Transactions and other publications. After the printing of the first volume of Contributions was completed, a copy of it and of the programme of organization were sent to the principal foreign literary and scientific institutions, with the request that they would exchange publications, on the condition that a volume of equal importance proud be presented to them annually. At first the number of responses to this proposition was small; but since the character of the Institution has become known and appreciated, the works received in exchange have rapidly increased in number and importance. ‘The whole es of articles received during 1852 is four thousand seven hundred and forty-four, which is more than three times that of all the previous years. ‘The publications received in many cases consist of entire sets of 'Transactions, the earlier volumes of which are out of print, and cannot be purchased. ‘They are of use in carrying on the various investigations of the Institution, and of value to the country as works of reference. T hey ought not to be considered as donations to the library, but as the products of the active operations, which the Institution is at liberty to dispose of in the manner best suited to further its designs. ‘The principal object, however, of the distribution of the Smitheoaian volumes, is not to procure a large library in exchange, but to diffuse among men a knowledge of the new truths discovered by the agency of the Smithsonian fund. The worth and importance of the Institution is not to be estimated by what it acca

<<<Page: 249>>>

mulates within the walls of its building, but by what it sends forth to the world. Its great mission is to facilitate the use of all the implements of research, and to diffuse the knowledge which this use may develope. The Smithsonian publications are sent to some institutions abroad, and to the great majority of those at home, without any return except, in some cases, that of co-operation in meteorological and other observations. Applications for these publications have now become so numerous that the edition printed will supply but a part of the demand, and it becomes a difficult matter to select the places which will best subserve the purpose of rendering them accessible to the greatest number of persons who would be benefited by their perusal.
In connexion with the distribution of its own publications, the Institution has adopted an arrangement to establish and promote a more general exchange of literary and scientific productions between this
S ° . al . and other countries. For this purpose it receives packages from soci-
~eties and individuals in the different parts of the United States, and
transmits them to England or the continent, and through its agents distributes them to the parties for whom they are intended. It also receives the articles sent in return, and forwards them to those to whom they are addressed. ‘To facilitate this operation, the packages to the Institution are addressed to the Collector of Customs in New York, and by him, on the certificate of the Secretary, admitted free of duty, and without the delay of an examination.
In carrying out this plan, the Institution is much indebted to the liberal course adopted by the government of Great Britain, and to the ready co-operation of the Royal Society of London. All packages intended for Great Britain, for some parts of the continent, and the East Indies, are directed to the care of the Royal Society, and on the certificate of its president, are, by a special order of the government, admitted duty free, and without the delay and risk of inspection. The ya eer are afterwards distributed by the agent of the Institution, or
y those of the Scciety.
This system of exchange does not stop here. ‘The Royal Society has adopted the same plan with reference to Great Britain and all other parts of the world; and the Smithsonian Institution, in turn, becomes an agent in receiving and distributing all packages which the Society desires to send to this country. A general system of international communication, first started by this Institution for the distribution of its own publications, has thus been established, which will tend to render the results of the labors of each country in the line of literature and science common to all, and to produce a community of interest and of relations of the highest importance to the advancement of know!edge, and of kindly feeling ‘among men.”’
The results of the operations of the system of foreign exchanges during the year 1852 are exceedingly gratifying. The whole number of packages sent out, including the Smithsonian publications, is 572, containmg 9,195 articles, and weighing 9,855 pounds. There have been received, in addition to the 4,745 articles for this Institution, 637 packages, containing an unknown number of volumes, for other institutions in this country. ‘The details of the business of the exchaneen are intrusted to Professor Baird; and , and ie been prosecuted with considerable vigor during the past year. It was given by me in charge to Mr. Lorin Blodget, of Western New York, who has engaged in ine work with much | ardor, has devoted to it his whole time Enid attention, and has evinced an unusual degree of talent for investigations of this character.
The results which have thus far been obtained are of interest to the science ot meteorology, and valuable to the practical arts of life. The following is a descriptive list of the deductions presented in a tabular form :
Temperature Tables.
1. Tables of general mean temperature for a series of years, embracing a summary of the annual means for the years 1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852, with a general summary of reliable obser-
vations of mean te mperature on the North American continent.
2. ‘Tables of mean temperature for each month, season, and te for 1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852, embracing 275 stations in 1849; 284 in 1850; 300 in 1851; and 396 in 1852.
3. ‘Tables of mean temperature at each observed hour for the same periods and the same stations.
4. Tables of the monthly extremes of temperature, with the range above and below the monthly mean, for the same periods and ‘Tne same stations.
-). Collection of tables of temperature at different stations, observed for
a series of years.
‘6. Miscellaneous tables of temperature, not conforming entirely to either
_ of the above divisions.
The first class of tables embraces six hundred and seventy stations, distributed over the entire continent, from the West Indies and Mexico to the Polar seas.
The second class has a more limited range, and is generally confimed to the United States and its territories, as observed by the military system, and that of the Smithsonian Institution, with a few stations in ‘Canada and the British possessions on this continent.
The third class of tables is nearly the same in extent with the preceding, and for three complete years, viz :—1850, 1851, and 1852.
The fourth class is of the same extent and time.
The fifth is a climatic arrangement of tables from various stations, extending in continuous series over periods varying from five to sixty years.
Tables of Precipitation.
1. Tables of distribution of precipitation in rain and melted snow for each month, season, and year, for 1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852.
2. General tables of precipitation for a series of years, containing the results of the preceding tables, with a general summary of all reliable and accessible observation of fall of rain on the North American continent. These tables give results from about four hundred stations, principally in the United States, its Territories. and the West Indies.

<<<Page: 250>>>

3. Irregular tables and single series, extending over long penods, and where reliable observations have been made.
A series of charts has been constructed to exhibit the distribution of temperature on the North American continent, by isothermal lines ; and _also another series, illustrative of the distribution of precipitation for each month, season, and year of 1850, 1851, and 1852, and for the periods given in the general tables. It is proposed to present these results to Congress as a part of the Annual Report of the Regents, and
as the first uit of the labors of the Smithsonian Institution on the subject of meteorology.
Catalogue of Libraries.
In addition to the preparation of the work previously mentioned, Professor Jewett has continued his experiments on the new process of stereotyping, to be used in his system of cataloguing. Much difficulty and delay have been experienced in the prosecution of these experiments, on account of the want of workmen to construct the peculiar apparatus required. The services of an ingenious and skilful artisan have, however, been secured ; and the process is now brought to such a state that it can be applied with certainty, and abridgment of labor, to produce the best specimens of typogr aphy.
The system of catalogues described in previous Reports, though future exper lence may suggest other improvements, is now apparently perfect in all its details. ok stereotyping office has been established in the basement of the west wing of the Smithsonian building, and the Institution is ready to commence the formation of a general catalogue of the principal libraries of the United States. The commission to which the catalogue system was referred, recommended that measures be taken to procure the preparation and printing of the catalogue of the Library of Congress. The cost of the first collection of stereotype titles can be Reet borne by this library, and it will be the first to reap the benefit of this invention. The stereotype blocks of the titles can be preserved in the Institution, and a new catalogue annually furnished at a small expense, with all the additions agence in their proper places. The same titles will be employed in printing the catalogues of other libraries, and the new titles which may be prepared for these will, in turn, be used for the Library of Congress.
I beg leave to commend this subject to the immediate consideration of the Board of Regents. The whole plan is in perfect harmony with the active operations, and has always received my cordial commendation. The Institution has incurred the expense of reducing it to practice, so far as it depends on mechanical arrangements ; and: it now only requires to be applied, to realize all the benefits which have been anticipated in regard to it, to do honor to the Institution and to confer deserved reputation on its author.*
* Nore.—Since this report was presented to the Board of Regents, Congress has appropriated three thousand dollars to commence the catalogue of its library on the stereotype plan, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 251>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 249 Labrary.
During the last year the library has received important additions from the books presented in exchange for the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions and other publications. The whole value of the works thus received during the year, according to the estimate of Professor Baird, is not less than from four to five thousand dollars. From this source alone a highly interesting and valuable collection of books, pertaining to all branches of positive knowledge, will, in time, be obtained. The reputation which the publications of the Institution have given it abroad, has induced individuals to present a number ot valuable works to the library. For an account of the whole, I must refer to the report of Professor Jewett, herewith submitted. The library has also been increased by the purchase of such books as were required in the operations of the Institution, and with a series of scientific and other periodicals. :
The copyright law is still in existence, and the library has received, during the past year, the usual number of articles from this source. The remark, however, may again be made with truth, that the action of this law, as it now exists, imposes a burden on the Institution from which it should be relieved.
The whole number of articles, according to the report of Professor Jewett, now in the library, is twenty-one thousand seven hundred.
Museum of Natural Ehstory.
The additions to the collection in natural history, under the persevering efforts of Professor Baird, have increased in a compound ratio over those of previous years. Large additions will also be made by the exploring expeditions which are about to leave for the different parts of this continent and distant seas; but the expense of preparing and transporting these, itis hoped, will be defrayed by the general government. For a detailed account of the number and variety of the specimens collected, I must refer to Professor Baird’s report accompanying this communication.
Gallery of Art.
Besides a library, a museum, and lectures, the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution directed the formation of a gallery of art. The only articles belonging to the Institution which have been yet collected in accordance with the last-mentioned regulation of Congress, are the valuable series of engravings by the old masters, decribed in a previous Report. One of the original propositions ot the programme is that of encouraging art, by providing a suitable room for the exhibition of pictures free of expense to the artist. In accordance with this, the large room in the west wing will be devoted to this purpose. It now contains a very interesting series of portraits, mostly full-size, of one hundred and fifty-two North American Indians, with sketches of the scenery of the country they inhabit, deposited by the artist who painted them, Mr. J. M. Stanley ‘These portraits were all

<<<Page: 252>>>

taken from life, and are accurate representations 6f the peculiar fea-. tures of prominent individuals of forty-three different tribes, inkabiting the southwestern prairies, New Mexico, California, and Oregon. The faithfulness of the likenesses has been attested by a number" of intelligent persons who have visited the gallery, and have immediately recognised among the portraits those of the individuals with whom fhe have been per sonally acquainted. ‘The artist expended in the work of obtaining these pictures ten years of his life, and perseveringly devoted | himself £0 his task in the face of difficulties and dangers which enthusiam in the pursuit could alone enable him to Sears e The Institution has published a descriptive catalogue of these portaits, which are of interest to the ethnologist as representatives of the peculiar physiognomy, as well as of many of the customs, of the natives of this continent.
Lectures of the Institution.
Public lectures have become one of the characteristics of the day, and next to the press, perhaps, tend, more than any other means of dif fusing knowledge, to impress the public mind. ‘The liberal price paid by the Lowell Institute, and some of the associations in our large cities, induces men of reputation to devote themselves to the preparation of popular lectures. In some parts of the country a number of adjacent cities or villages enter into an arrangement by which the same lecture may be repeated, in succession, at each place; and in this way the amount paid becomes sufficient to call forth the best talent. A plan of this kind has been adopted by the Athenzeum of Richmond, Virginia, with reference to the lectures before the Smithsonian Tnstitanon: the effect of which has been mutually beneficial. Popular lectures appear better adapted to present literary and historical facts, and to give information relative to subjects of art and of morals, than to impart a knowledge of scientific principles. ‘These require more attention and continuous thought than can be generally expected from a promiscuous audience. Hence the scientific lecturer frequently aims at a brilliant display of experiments, rather than to impress the mind with general principles.
Local lectures are too limited in their influence to meet a proper interpretation of the will of Smithson; yet they were ordered by Congress, and are calculated to do more good in this city than in any other part of the Union.
In selecting lecturers, the consideration of mere popular effect has not been regarded. The persons chosen have been such as to give weight to ‘tie lecture, and to reflect credit on the Institution. The object has been to give instruction rather than amusement—to improve the public taste r ein than to elicit popular applause. The Institution, to be respected, must maintain a dignified character, and seek rather to direct public opinion than to obtain popularity by an opposite course.
The moral effect which the lectures have on the city of Washington cannot be otherwise than beneficial. When the weather is favorable, the room is every evening crowded before the hour of commencement with an intelligent audience. The lecturers have generally been per

<<<Page: 253>>>

sons irom a distance, who have expressed surprise to find such a large and respectful attendance in a city which is commonly thought to be exclusively devoted to politics and amusement. The plan of. inviting gentlemen of reputation and influence from a distance renders fii Smithsonian operations familiar to those best qualified to appreciate their value, and best able to give a correct account of the character of the Institution in their own diemicn of country, as well as to vindicate its claims to the confidence and friendly regard of the public. The results of this course, and the distribution of the volumes of Contributions to colleges and other institutions, it is hoped, will so establish the Institution in the good opinion of the intelligent and influential part of the community, that it may bid defiance to the assaults of those who are 1gnorant of its true character, or are disappointed 1 in not sharing its fours without the talents or the industry to win them.
The following is a list of the titles of lectures given during the last session of Congress, with the names of the ge ntlemen by whom they were delivered: :
A course of three lectures by Dr. E. K. Kane, U.S. N., on Arctic Exploration.
A course of three lectures by President Mark Hopkins, of Williams College, on Method applied to Inve ssuigation.
A course of four lectures by Prof. W. B. Rogers, of the University of Virginia, on the Phases of the Atmosphere.
A course of twelve lectures by Dr. Benjamin Silliman, sen., of Yale College, on Geology.
A course of two lectures by Prof. C. C. Felton, of Harvard University, on Greek Literature.
One lecture, by Job R. Tyson, esq., of Philadelphia : : Queen Elizabeth and Oliver Cromwell, their characters and times, contrasted and compared.
A course of six lectures by Dr. B. A. Gould, jr., of Cambridge, on the Recent Progress of Astronomy.
A course of six lectures by Prot. Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, on the Foundation of Symmetry in the Animal Kingdom.
A course of six lectures by Prof. B. Silliman, jr., on the four ancient elements—Earth, Air, Fire, and Water.
Omitted from previous report: A course of twelve lectures by Dr. Henry Goadby, on the Structure and Functions of Insects.
In the last Report to the Regents some general remarks were made relative to the library and museum, and nothing has since occurred to change the opinions then expressed. On the contrary, the experience of another year has tended to confirm these opinions, and to clearly exhibit the fact that it will be impossible to continue with the present income some of the most important operations, and rigidly adhere to the resolution of the Regents of 1847, to devote one half of the whole income to the library and museum, besides all the expenditures still required on the building for the accommodation of these objects. By a reference to the annual reports of the Executive Committee, it will be seen that the general incidental expenses have continually increased

<<<Page: 254>>>

from year to year; and it is evident that they must continue to increase in a geometrical ratio, on account of the greater repairs which, in time, will be required on the building. After deducting from the income the cost of repairs, lighting, and heating; of messenger, attendants, and watchmen}; of stationery, transportation, and postage; after dividing the remainder by two, and deducting from the quotient the expense of the public lectures, the final sum to be devoted to the most important, and, indeed, the only legitimate object of the bequest, is exceedingly small.
The attempt has, however, been made in good faith to carry out the resolution of February, 1847; and if items which may properly be charged to the library and collections were added to this side of the account, the balance up to the present date would be in favor of the active operations. But the plan has not been found to work well ia practice. ‘The income is too small properly to support more than one system of operations, and therefore the attempt to establish and sustain three departments, with separate ends and separate interests, must lead to inharmonious action, and consequently to diminished usefulness.
However proper such a division of the income might have been in the beginning, in order to harmonize conflicting opinions, and to submit with proper caution the several proposed schemes to a judicious trial, the same considerations do not now exist for its continuance ; changes have since occurred which materially alter the conditions on which the resolution was founded. The plan of active operations was not at first fully understood even by the literary men of the country. It was considered chimerical, and incapable of being continued for any length of time ; and hence it was thought important to provide for the means of falling back upon a library and collections. The experience of six years has, however, established its practicability and importance, and it is now considered by the great majority of intelligent persons who have studied the subject, the only direct means of realizing the intention of the donor. Again: the building was to have been finished in five years, and the income after this was to be increased by the interest on the remaining surplus fund; but the Regents have found it necessary, for the better security of the library and museum, to add fifty thousand dollars to the cost of the edifice; and ten years will have elapsed from the beginning, instead of five, before any income from the surplus fund will be available. This additional expense is not incurred for the active operations, and the question may be asked whether they ought to bear any part of this additional burden. Furthermore, at the time the division was made, it was thought obligatory on the part of the Institution to support the great museum of the Exploring Expedition ; but the Regents have since concluded that it is not advisable to take charge of this collection ; and Congress, by its appropriation for the enlargement of the Patent Office, concurred in the opinion expressed in the Senate by the Hon. Jefferson Davis, that it was a gift which ought not to be pressed upon the Institution. The inquiry may also, in this case, be made, whether it is advisable in the present state of the funds, and the wants of the active operations, to expend any considerable portion of the income in the production of a collection of objects of nature and art. Again: the active operations are procur

<<<Page: 255>>>

ag annually for the library, by exchange, a large number of valuable books, which, in time, of themselves will form a rare and valuable collection ; and even if the division of the income is to be continued, a sum equal in amount to the price of these books ought to be charged to the library, and an equal amount credited to the active operations.
Though a large library connected with the Institution would be valuable in itself, and convenient to those who are in the immediate vicinity of the Smithsonian building, yet, as has been said before, it 1s not essential to the active operations. It would be of comparatively little importance to the greater number of the co-laborers of the Institution, who are found in every part of the United States, and are not confined even within these limits. The author of the great work on the American Algze, now publishing in the Smithsonian Contributions, 1s a resident member of Trinity College, Dublin; and very tew of the authors of the Smithsonian memoirs reside in Washington. The libraries, therefore, of the whole country, and in some cases of other countries, are at the service of the Institution, and employed for its purposes.
Similar remarks apply to the museum. It is not the intention of the Institution to attempt to examine and describe within the walls of its own building all the objects which may be referred to it. To accomplish this, a corps of naturalists, each learned in his own branch, would be required, at an expense which the whole income would be inadequate to meet. In the present state of knowledge, that profound attainment necessary to advance science can be made by an individual, however gifted, only in one or two narrow lines; and henee several members are required to complete a single class in any of the learned academies of Europe: therefore the plan which was once proposed, of establishing on the Smithsonian fund an academy of associated members, was entirely incompatible with the limited income of the Institution. The more feasible and far less expengive organization was adopted, of referring, for investigation, all scientific questions of importance, as well as objects of natural history, to persons of reputation and learning in different parts of the United States, and perhaps, in some cases, in foreign countries. By the operation of this plan, which has been found eminently practicable, the collections, as well as the libraries of the whole country, are rendered subservient to the use of the Institution.
There can be but little doubt that, in due time, ample provision will be made for a hbrary and museum at the capital of this Union worthy of a government whose perpetuity depends upon the virtue and intelligence of the people. It is, therefore, unwise to hamper the more important objects of this Institution, by attempting to anticipate results which will be eventually produced without the expenditure of its means.
The prominent idea embraced in the Smithsonian organization, 13 that of co-operation and concerted action with all institutions and individuals engaged in the promotion of knowledge. Its design is not to monopolize any part of the wide fields of nature or of art, but to invite all to partake in the pleasure and honor of their cultivation. It seeks not toencroach upon ground occupied by other institutions, but to ex

<<<Page: 256>>>

pend the funds in doing that which cannot be as well done by other means. It gives to the words of Smithson their most liberal interpretation, and ‘increases and diffuses knowledge among men’ by promoting the discovery of new truths, and by disseminating these in every part of the civilized world. Respectfully submitted, JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 257>>>



<<<Page: 258>>>



<<<Page: 259>>>

Page.
Ability of the Individual to Promote Knowledge, Lecture 0n.........sseeeweeees 207 1 Aboriginal Monuments of New York .........sessescecrccceescceesses siaretatel sits 191 Academy of, Arts: and Sciences, Report of. .....0..00ssecccecreccccecccseccsecs 148 Accounts, new system of, introduced..... ainsicielseisse Worind, abet cvatiesl/silo.cua\snlekerereroievsterstaeieks 935 NGhromMaticrVCKOSCOPe, OLGELEA(!ao\se1010:<"0\ sie oe «le, o'e\viei orci sale ¢/enie\o\elohers| sholoe!ojelsleielslan chs 146 NehromaticMelescoperpurchased's «\c\0s\ sc 0s olcises «/iwjeeesle Sssieleie ees eave oferalalca'als eas 163 Active Operations, results of.......... a causlevTolaaust ateictonelarerevesterouce #, ayssvaiegetorentaers LOD eo Act of Congress accepting Bequest of Smithson...........cecccsccccsscees oekets 111 Act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution. ..............0eseeeees 112 Adams, John Quincy, Words of, respecting Plan... 2... 002 escccsssseccccsccs ote 133 NG aS PELOLe © bay AD PLO PLA ti OW CO).\o sis) oye1.o e100 wise) oie, sevst's) wialle’s) sieve siecisieic aicereyenveye 245 ING AIMSsh © Eds LIX PLOLACLOM Diyjere\ oleic. cae e «le! sis) 2) eo oo lave'sieiavs'ot exe) ea) sie) eas ays Sioteley etecesche 220 AG Aress ON Smithsomiany LNStITUELOMY 2, ls 2 v0 '0/0 cielsisle's ele vieie,s. ots 0 d0'6)<0% stooredaliel elostehetepona 120 NU ANA ES OLE UDI CALIONS|s) eraisis, cieraictarciciel's s e/els asavcislavevecie e)s elects) olevolee’ ole) cvetasre avers 135 Africa, Institutions in........ alsislectarsteretcetets Bok niots Nash stacey otaeane Saalesravsie ay aloreyarclerslers 49 Agassiz,, Prot. is.,, Memoir by... <1 <> <\sie0. ene Sepete ever eich koran crore sisrohei a) siouenet esha enr chats 172 Nioassizs Wberon. Mis MLC CCULESi DIYs) s/<fstieielssie)cveiisiescereis Sissye'e si eaijeveiole/oace ciatataapsfareiercewerene 251, 207 PASS Z WE TOL Las) EI OOSt St IVLCIMIOIT:c,s1s;ei o/s) as w\'o) ope senroycie( eves Sie, Srelecjevert: oien Shasereiecrmereses 213 Aericultural society, use Of rooms granted tO. \c.c.0. sioicsre oes ojsie's vie soils vieleloeere aeieee 76 Memculures:, Application’ of, CHENMSETY: COs «\'s.clee/s\n wisi celole opvaierd a ares be Palenaenaeh 180 Ari uaL bette VV atereluCCLUTES) OMsiecc saves ae oie eletse ' ovesvecelevelvs ctaletsveciaaie pase eNoen 251. muinyis trot, Accuracy of. Mphemeris of Neptune’. «ceo vs-.sicce cee sen deine yeni te 221 Plexanders Captmbuin., appointed ATChItect. 6/</<isie:< ajc + 0 eo;erervie ei atasin'e, «teiacloir cae 69 PLEX ANG Clewiee OLA SpA CLULES Ver aitialste st stelseleielsarel eieisheld’ si wele wis eieverate cicuereemencesmreene aie 207, 27 Alps hes Wecture? OMisics ses clo’. delssie 6's ay aialleiver'siea'ova’ sf oleh cia! a'ie\ sisi alan aiatichoterehorate teste eee 230 ATVOLLCAMPANT ELA LI ATA SS OCLOLY iis) araies/s\0/es sista lskes) ois/e!slev o | oves/e\eiore asierohals oahavaeeeie 219, 14 FA IMIOUIC AMPA TAI EMA TES trey reve) calor oficial evollals, sts¥e'acchatw oe silane) | bis eue4i0" ol ore 219, 203, 178, 172, 140, 14 American Association, Committee of, on Extending Meteorological System........ 222 SMELICATMDOALOEOIBVLISSIONSepvctasin’s evel eeier cele eos) aoleloaloversisislele. a) d0.5:e Viste ae eA 214 American Medical Association........ efehotciesieiaweye SHOT CICLO CR .c to afaselsonetenctone 174 PAHerican’ Ehilosopeted MSOCL ys ee s.e7s: 6:2i0'6. + sie'Gisi ees wale Se ela wale slelvicle gaeg uation 239, 2185/2138 PAINE LCA) Ota Steerevetepearatstctslocters/aveiseic cies en's leletel otra gelavcecs: «ola erelatanctestotete alae ovshonses 240 Analysis of Soils and Plants........ Risteves Mersie en) 3) al elavael obsess dio. ale aieiotoresatorerers Baker 162 ANC ICE» Wo numen tSeayapops ites terest ssie'e lois oo) exe 3s aiaievel iavescieere xlaieve 219, 203, 178, 172, 140, 14 EBELOId BATGMetery EXPSFIEAGHES OM iy 4s sien us. o\6 av sieloetaslee ce iss ate actus eames ae 199 Annals of Philosophy, Contributions to, by Smithson........ Slacetodicrateve teecne oh Vetohaehs 110 matiquities of Wisconsin). -os ress sss secs SercD OAC OB OOC Goon Sisle\sjsiec/slole Oe sme BRE UTALES 5: oho 0 « 3! <\niess vie ata MR MMeetG ech <0: 0'c g Alo egrel city) dia Sale clcid aa cedteeets ales eases 180, 145 BMAP OI CIER var, 5's! «ia. si eis vail « wel depie enemy ove Mole olefeshelstaseletelvels elsverens sleleieveiaeievevesetelete's) = 105 Appropriations for 1854......... etefaaperets\ oleic) s/0e01.0/3 atatels|(svehaisi ofofeiei #1¢ eovereio¥elslavelel slexexel 99, 79 Architecture of the Middle Ages, Lecture on............. FO UONOCROCRDOD ON COOOT 230
Arctic Exploration, Lectures on......

<<<Page: 260>>>

Page. Asia, Institutionsin.......... eNtetelaisllaare (0..slle,tces ekevel cone Bieiehers (ossto a coeyeelae a tapeieheelerevorste 49 Association, Lecture on.......+.. Ecalclc oye; is \o 0: 0g) al cee Beata aoe ole hes aeave Be ite 230 NStronomicalll Clock sstaieyelestels «\cloole/e1« ses o's 9 e/a0\a «ala sslelels Bit isleisrerveleisiesiciaeseiioiiee 203 Astronomical Instruments for Chili. ........02-ceccecsoee Salers iota (ov sioeieueysteenere pooela} ie) Astronomy, Promotion of, by the Institution. 6.66 ceeesseece cece eee eseeeeteees 931 Astronomy, Recent Progress of, Lectures On. ...ee ee eeeeee renee 30 SAND cS C Be 251 At CHIsOn MEL OU SED Re IUCLECL COs wie oie.,0 100 #2 oc oo clare lesorole nlc clus (cclotelohel Sele Milne! e afeheters 3 Atwater, Mr., on Mounds of Ohio Valley.......++. aheliolieceetstatels By aaa sera als 219 PXUTOTAL aves ietsste's ddide aeeaeae Pesats A ialowleiete Gielers iene stetctenehestere ais cbteca tesla fateleteisey susteta » 199sie4: Bache, Prof., Paper presented by......scceesseccceureees mAGAUuPboG obaoeracdc 191 Bailey, Prof. J. W....-seseeues SA MEGodtodd ajsten ic lelereierhetretatente evecal ais ters siderecie: “UOT Gwar Baird, Dr. Robert, Lectures by........... alte @sheys/ae spelscelsietate snare (etal: gitetetaienenarstatere 27 Baird, Prof. 'S. F., appointed Assistant... ...2..sceccccrcesccscccccccscscnvcces 224, 189 Baird, Prof. 8S. F., Directions for Collecting Specimens of Natural History by..... 217 Baird verot. 5. bss, explorations) DY 2s st. ae ites ein: sie siaiern lor sielapa(onwiogete wiskeleyet.euslel|seieelats 220, 200 Baird, Prof. S. F., in charge of Exchanges.......0..eccessseoes aelaichaeeetts Be SOS AOE 218 Buird, S..F., Report of, for 1853... 0... 00s oscsiceeces oe ee cie's Bree ofeisteielel srrorerattrers 36 Baird and Girard, Catalogue of Serpents, .. cic. see cince a0 stececes cece cutee s.nie 19 Barometers, by Ernst and Newman.........eses cece esc ceenenes ears veces ee ee 197 Barnard, Henry, Lectures by........... o oketslerie ibis inletohe at otouertetniay sic) erate sre enyaotete : 27 Bartlett, John R., Report;on Squier’& Davisye.. .c)s.cie eee swe nieie)asie/e e's es ie\ejescapisiaie 144 Batis Maritima.'.!s 001. + ss + eas aga ’aghayeorte tare lo ce,-o>stohiahe rors ale) slacentneion tueeretet ate eter tenevelets oe 16 Batibariladame der laisse clesy cas 4 cciele si aeielevndcie's a 6 viatsioveteiseierss els) colajereseatereyanestosenenete 209 Beck, Prof. Lewis C., Lecture by....... siege utsandvorece tears Ee Brake eersecosstexeles akoeeeretee 207 Beck, Prof. Lewis C., Report Dy. <6 oss. sein sie 0 cs icisiein esieieieieisis was Siam doncnaanons 180 Beck, T. Romeyn, Meteorological System of New York.........+.-e eee HOON GAD 175 Belgium, Institutions in.......... ses seen biatihe vetoes Si’ eoegerueteste aieielecitlecsete racer ste 44 Bermuda, Meteorological Observations from... ... eee eee eres SetdworobComcoN oF 176 Berticn sions Jj." NiosConstruction/of the Act Dy cee cso. sowie seicieie «es ayes sialae of elele V7 Berzelius; Report of, on Physical ‘Science... 20.0 ccccccssscecsseccscsssccrceses 138 Peunnne kvever Dra Gr. NV ie WUC CLULC IDV exe oxe/erersioln: siejesteile(eje'o.e ses slajaielechole| cele Selctess 207 Bibliographia Americana... ...ececececcsscecccrcesccnresecece selon sielelsienieieleletad 179, 163 MCS SPE CEIVeCUel OSes ccaszs'e ais < sorels ele/eeieie tetas ene oiler sieve) sfeinlone/atebatereareialel sas o/s ave (otatere 53 Blaricorn Essai era lity Olver sis sein ecic.0i8 oisle «ae sloiate/sis-cue/ete crefetateievarel sce =) o:soxs/eySecueler 203 BO t, AGT Lo uieic wteten da ab ele aie neva eal vie aleins lols aie Paiele ble mheialara wee ae sneleseyatataeteren 247, 99, 25 OCUIMM TOL ROL MINES ie uid canevataariereistiege tetatevedeet eravetalatsvoncebetctal’s's s. 902 careley ates cee 216 Booth and Morfit, Report on Chemical Arts, by... .....ecceeceeeees és Wiereayatencrane 242, 216, 19 Bossange, ‘Hector, Distribution of Publications by . si. ce.c. es ccs cscs sccescceeeise 38 Botany of California... 2.0.0 ces e cece eee OUI Odo UC ONO DR OIEU OID DOUG scr: 212 Botany, Promotion of, by the’ Institution. [0.06 cc. e sec ce se cece ces cece ne ve shouts 232 Bowditch, Anecdote of......... ASR AAT atSe Sieticiatelateste tee m, v.14 ‘eis eave oramehonee aioteeute 135 GAG ROTI COC VV VMN Loic tisisvclacelle sielelalale @leateyeseiarelohshetsiavarer(e isle se ahs # wlolesjetajerscelare otameetete 16 Bridgman, Laura, Vocal Sounds of. .........000 eats) cis bs oc. »,0:a/0) 0.0. a05, atepnedeteneeneeters 191 EURO SEM OMCLTIOLs s/0;010/ ae sree. oi Sele exe) ei tie: Sie 2 chaioisle/alweyalaielie.o.ele bie a: oa efeie iehastelers erect 197 Byrrel clan) OM OMANI SES HTH s) cele civic « lacie e olauniel alatciorsiejectetele etee.o'* 0-0 on o.01s selec oeele telat tenon 184 Building Committee, Summary: of Report for 1852... 5.1... cece neecs cases 235 Building Committee, Report of, for 1853... ...... eiialieese. © 6: o bere ieee idenoieeeke eatenCeene a taaie 69 Bulwer, Sir Henry......... acdstaheise tol ohaltagnens ltsisiets lols s.s:s ovilelasanlaraitesene Aiefekelsvaleientaias 218 Byington, Rev. Harvey, Choctaw Grammar by.............eee ue sletstvele talatelewreicis 24] By-Laws of the Smithsonian Institution. ........ccececcseecesncces alo ceeapooee 100 California Academy of Natural Sciences. ......+ese seers soieteicesats pleVeiersialsssieieraiete 76
Cimeron, "Gilbert, Balance due, paid... cies ce co's oc ciara cle ay ws eprerimmenie sienisies 73
Ty .

<<<Page: 261>>>

Page. mtsameron; Gilbert; Petitions «oe sicc cot. secon, s0.cbie craielets oo ue se see ele eee sie weisrlaians 74 Canada, Visit of Secretary to.........-+-.0s. revel etetsleleretertic avests)a,'e/<'clcl =) cieenetar severe : 176 Carlisle, J. M., Counsel for the Board....-... stata galalare Aedelsiide' cleks er olsaveriae aie tereeaeiete 69 Carroll, Charles, of@arrollton, Lecture On. .)s'5. 6:10) jee sieicielsie's vio «ese eve 6 ssfelelarevere 27 Casas @ainss TResallmuionGs 66 onus HeceeeO Oo Heaio Od DOTOSD bint bn on DEOGerE gh Aster 211 Catalogue of Apparatus. ......ee eee eens cloister ceotenaheeicrstete aera WE Gatiohao are octetetere 180: EGO ae iad a a a 2 181 Catalogues of Libraries.........e0s..+eeeee ee Ee AEP PII creo a eae . 248, 204 Catalogue of Library of Congress. ....-..seccrccreccesesscccncrccccrscsvescces 248, BT Catalogue of North American Reptiles... .. 03.0.6... cece e rece eccrecececccecees 19 Catalomue System, Advantagesiof. .. v.ciaiseevecesrceccuvecersccscacees se clectelerens AMS3 Centigrade Scale proposed to be adopted... .......cccesceeecceccececs Vote ieleNolie sate 165 Central America, Meteorological Observations from. ...... cece eevee SOT CIOOS 176 Chamberlain, Mr;/Pneumatic Instruments; by... s\-:<\o2spers,aicreie eet oneiots store» sl ove Oe) a asevone 180 Chandler, Joseph R., Chairman of Committee on Smithsonian Institution in House OUMELEPVESENUEALIVICES, 3's,0-etanialcfad. 2 5% lola s 0/aelas, 6:3, 014 els diclactele ao ae eid ae wate Seca eels 78 Chappellsmith, Jno., Account of a Tornado......e.ee eee eereee aay Teneltslelstaverareterehe 14 Chemical Arts, Recent Improvements in............. 9) eteld Biot oteleiia seieratealate! sie cele decane Oamlicy @hemical: Operations of Nature, Lectures Om. 26 h0.ceiie e)e2 a erele%sie oo eeleidelele sleies 0 ete 207 Chemistry, Application of, to Agriculture... ......eceeseceee ahve sieve sraivions, ¢ terete 180 Chilian Government established Observatory at Santiago ......... Jealdecte sieteteelatey 203 Chili, Astronomical Expedition to............0.00. Wisetorareyaleinca: otaare.sheedaens 245, 203, 172, 163 Choctaw Language, Grammar of............. sisia ofapeioteNoh at vievarel dae diahsiyeereleratelaevars oes 241 Classification of Insects upon Embryological Data............. chaheledohetesh elevatersieneions 172 Cleaveland, Prof. Parker, elected Honorary Member............shoal Mobheresstauleteereys 101 Climate Secures Ole, His )s0)duo,9 12 's als jovek ees eevee dca la Vachotavesslot star siStahehelatal shots folcvetaletemetore 27 Coast Survey, Observations made by.....-.ccescuececure alolldialsialereepoieisielehopectatatetete 213 Coast Survey connected with Smithsonian Institution in Magnetic Observations... . 21 Coffin, Professor J. H., Winds of the Northern Hemisphere.............. ee lalainvelstot olereml es ColeopteranCatalogsUerOt.(najdevecieteyvsis sis vaielelciols,s/oue! e slavses ele eteieceyere rs clawvel cia sistem oI AML SS Collections in Natural Pistoty:...:. ssices ses occas nes 253, 249, 227, 202, 181, 177, 51, 26 Comet, Discovery, ofy bye Missi Mitchell; tis atetor rich orele le fe'ccicieis a se'e a alors ne oielenels Sidc 171 Commencement of Operations of the Institution. ........c.ccccerseccsaceccsenes 140 Commissioner of Patents, Arrangement with............. Romeo men eloeVehetartelspeyelte 162 Commission on Catalogue System............ spa aNetotatevers stores talore or sevartconeins orev 204 Committee of Conference with Board of Regents........ ORR OSMIO MOO CoG o.0ersc 103 Committee on By-Laws......0.5....0008 Mh AN ake sist ana satin afsven as/aalstarotelonalctay eat tatenete 100 CommunicationiofChaneelloriand iSecretary).:.(s\<.1sishe'eveiee\eisisl aoe's o's alse eieciaistcehasre 7 GmiparativerAnatonysor ther brows 5% s/s. i 's'eiet/o'oivielot)a'a elie es al'a's'e av:esisialed ene ewes 238 Comparative Anatomy, promotion of, by the Institution.............. 20006 AticoOIt 232 Compatibility of two plans.............. yeahet haheltetabelatalschecetsaral ctersves minvele abrateraetoeis 139 Compromise, rigidly adhered to....... COICO HOCUS ICCC DIESE CART In eras cio 224 Congress, act of, accepting bequest of Sinithson..... apaloiefelceit’ sicielesse aleiel sexejeheversishnress 111 Congress, act.of, establishing she pimstitutions|s < 4:4 ¢01 «05.5 010 acleye cielasle 4 o's oe ole ole 112 Congress, appropriation by, to commence Catalogue ofits Library..............-248, 27 ‘ Construction of the act of establishment, by Mr. Berrien..........2sceeeecseeeees 117 Contribution to the Physical Geography of the United States ...... halehnateverstarserstets 171 Convention of Librarians............. sintetaish nieifetahesis/alaleleslaietaisisials/ccteictetsrcetal tees 31 RPopyrignt Law; change ii, M€COssaryiess.ic.j.1\e< sess e'eisiaiele'veie ede acececesode aise 226 Copyright, none taken on Smithsonian Publications... ......0.ceeeeee syeeter cetera 195 Monconamiag Finds, deposit witha. cuisnistslepelaccteretato’ea)s ota'stod & Stolelah 6 aie’slesie's/sbie ala 72 BAITCOLAME MUN AVIV folclejuie' av oor aves fo mlotofemelefeRensd fot ferehsa Siaisieiesin, Sime o's 1e'se' ene cabo ates 235

<<<Page: 262>>>

Page. ‘Correspondence, nature and extent Of. ......-.. sce ee ens ceeeeeeees Bo copobmogcoc 22 Correspondence relative to acceptance of Squier & Davis’s work .......0..seeeee141 Cost of publishing Scientific works.........--4Poo 5,055 0s 00 WG Or Btsdidooe O00 136 Cox, Dr. Samuel H., Lectures by... .....00..ee0se0e0 re feiohcs cxore\s: se ieieoctere siereebete 230 Cromwelliand, Queen Blizabeth, Lectures om « . .. 070 0 ao ej0 ene «wieiee oc colvie sivioreie 251 Croton Water, microscopic OrganisMS iN ..... ese ee eee ee eevee eeeres SOI GI O9C 18 RMT yay UNEP ILU TAS TUS pep 16 21618 jo ce eo, #' = [ote jain. 6 0) 4010 co sore leper eiiones sololegetNeetotonebeiele o/s otexePelenets : 50 Cubic Equations, new method of solving..........sett ciao Afohetoleletatelostatekeroyeer fel ciate 171 GalbertsonsPAleSxAaNder.,.j0.6 sies.ece os er.cse0,0.00.0:010 01 s:015/0.0. 016 es wieratateololayslenelePohoielshexesieyele 200 Sinllfanuston, (UT (5 eee eee eOOeaS . Saar Cuco.o OD OO nS 6 oo 227, 220, 199, 12 Dakota Language, Grammar and Dictionary of... 2.1... ..seeeereee eee ee eee sieie 214 Darlington, Dr. William..........0ssccsescsercccsceesccces eid ie woisioators ere eet 16 Darlingtonia Californica.......ccccssreccsccssccccensacesscccccccencccee owes 16 Darwin, Or., Researches by-...,..+«00s» sls ices.» a rreiersjeijele)a/e|sles\aala)bus'se.ala'e oes) efeisieie 239 Davis, Hon. Jefferson, Opinion respecting Museum of Exploring Expedition ....... 252 Davis, Lieutenant C. H., Lectures by.............norcterslolerciosicterolMetesstsi-toletectelet 207 Davis, Lieutenant C. H., Memoir on the Tides, by. sees... esse cece cccsecces S000 215 WermnaricaWlnShitUblONSaiTi:jss0% cyoos sve e1eelols isyoteriscscesstolestereicatetabevekalod scales etelovorele’ <fetersiere 4] MBEE Dy. 5 FL; OW ..9' AGEMts js joe seis 9 sae 02» o,09 op 4s Sid veiatesialaxeinielnjeplajelelale oie) sis.eretotwts’ ele 51 Mescription of Ancient W orks in Ohio. << 20.4: ss «2 caeveierorajeferete' 6 eae Kole/ei0 nial s/eveloliofe lef 236 Diffusing Knowledge, means of.........-0.seeees sia hoeeXeHO Laer eKavel(aj osep< 48 selotlanstasfetaNena vere 138, 130 Directions for Collection and Preservation of specimens of Natural History ....... 241, 217 BDISHDULION. Cf PULNCAtIONS. «6, s;0,-0:0,0'e 60 \e0 aio ioe we ale ©) e\0,4/0 sie, 0/eialeveieioie loKeinile)slelaistole 242, 194, 37 Domestic Exchanges. ....00cccecesssss No OMeU CU MOUC TOC TOD NS GoD TaS COU do oe 51 Monationghrom Dri TATE. scjer 0 spose ois 0s sieleterereietalete sim ete lee routes iokskeiheretoolaiete one HBOS LEY WOM OTSIVOMVELISEWTI ain ie sichets.e ote (sies. pm = ovelers/oi/eisiciaie)ays (ayelare,o) aiohefegeye (one sieeuohertatatectatctevals 57 Downes, John, Occultations for L849; Dy... . 0 o's +040 oo wv/e slew sle.coreieie e o-aiei ssc elelele 160 Downes, John, Occultations for 1850, by.’. ciieve sce ctecee ce ce ails ‘Biel's tone lsnaveyereNeqeto 173 Downes, John, Occultations for 18515 Dy .c.0c.00 5 0cs.c0%e o viejs o0e.c'8 00 oie veloc vie oleeeierere 201 Dynamical Phenomena of Geology, Lectures On. .... 26.02 +esseccescrcececroscs . 207 Mmranmicrettects Of the Wes: jsvsieis.07sjs,6. « s0)ssaqnis: sve. oys\0 flelar 1s e,tenslovaienelelel oVassvoxeys oh efolole 215 Earth, Air, Fire, Water, Lectureson..... Bal ate eters ene AOS OOO SOC ATR BOE CAD AO DS 251 Hanthquake, Imstrument, for MEaSUTiNg'. <0... :0,6 wsjeie siojee eis sielotelseieleie isies/s 0.» ciecleleleloe 164 HRMEMb Ere TOLCSSOL:. Wt «ic wis les ojcjasie/s tales clo eyols wcsaralode’ eclosereietehalstee’s)« ve, slole)ettelaler otekee 17 Biahth AnnnaluRepont presented. s:.jo. ois e,esrreterataele je sjeueefelayereie ote sie yehssi0 pede do 3 iMlectrical Rheometry..-\2:is 5 scles sie ce sie AAT 3.3 09. 0.0.68 090.0. Og UF UDI O Ob 50 DB.OCE 236, 172 Mlectricity, TeCent GISCOVETIES: Is. ssi. co oie bovis lewwwies «0° OSs 15 (ecole s,oieueecn te eee 19 aloins Marbles, Moulds from, proposed, ...0< so s<ja =fetese cw os .0%:0 010 010.5:0 » sin abe slecaln iu a Bbetem@ hanes, wlraitet isc! eteieaivcsole tote on 61a! ote corel Meme reethe Pate wis vo ote:'ste reyes a.0i-s fo. Sane Bobb Aig 171 RtetecyAViajor W. Ely. cia takes oc'st:o otek beeen Memes « +-.a.ca.carseude eee 204, 177 Bagelmam, Or. (George, AGent...).. cola fe ols ate aielsticreieieiclelcle.« +,<( « « «6 wisieoteleetneneciens 506 51 Macheb Lancuave, History of, Lecture von, eisai... sos 00 0-sa's'sis svete en aes 230 Basravings, Valuable Collection of, procured .icjss00s+ 0 + vs vs:c00se wlenviee eiateeene 205 Entomology, Lecture on............. SOcdcod bod udaOee do; siaje sueuars folelelorsslereseishel sels 230 ITO MIETISAOLeINI DCUMC. :5:5 «1s \seieveie fers oiailaleia\sielepoveleiele sieves .0\0 core \aieueleyeeketeas oe Pel ueOls 173, 160 rostonsyoteubeSurtace of the Marth: < .ciciiss cjesios © s0's10 «evs /eis aeicie Se eee sees 200 — ISVs PEO LESSON slete/= '»)oS\ aie ejalans /ejatnteviare lofeseayetonsions for eteiel's 4.4 ee vanei clarence ae ane 196, 175, 161, 147 Bistablietments MVlCMmbELrs: Off... 0js;0.0syo ateleaselelebis cites’ s sslv ecb eed Cee sted Bapeteto santo sistew 6 Pista blishimentaMeetnes' OL. ..1s\.)0 colelola-s ee wiel sie cele wv wie oetaloenee Mo ineieteveys atetoisnst 5G 109 Estimates to be made by Executive Committee and Secretary.........seeeeeeeeee 78 IN Ulmae) eyes Mass bern oad 0 OOO ORI OnS seeceeee 232, 228, 219, 203, 178, 172, 140, 54, 14
Ethnological Chart «0.2. 0 ...00s.00. <)a, 6 aims aie sie;e'e' 6 9.6 «0, 810 ele Steere tome ine 178

<<<Page: 263>>>

Page Ethnological Society, Report of, on Squier and Davis’s Memoir............. sence 141 Europo-American Physical Man, Memoir on........--....06 Sioa’ aletb aeatone ee Rey 76 Hiverett, dw, Report on Programmers. o's alls sicele isles ose ss sees > ce alleetelelcebelste 155 Examples of Objects for which appropriations may be made .......... ec. ee eee eee 130 Exchange, Advantages of Smithsonian System of. .......eeee:eeereeere SORA. 295 Exchanges.......+2 CAC BOCHApOGD AO Siro ki CONE Hoon Gani boct Ss ASCCOIaT 232, 218, 37, 25 Executive, Commatlees, REPOLt Of, tL SSS. <:o/cie, « avi elore svervieleieie)'s gis0le en's tislen cle 6 olsialelele 66 Executive Committee to settle claims of L. Blodget..........cccecsreecsecvceecs 99 Expenditures uring 1853 3.5 sarees sels ses sisle vc cele sities oe 0 see selec eree aisjelivlelesies elele 67 HEP ELUNE UES ITN S ELC OLY;PUMO's <lcrs)clecravelee 'aysi veins o s/eie siete ©. olsisi'e « wie la)cielereleletel ate’ let oPelie/ove 200 Expenimentson Building Material. 5 orto «sles: sac ia/oje'siejees'arelelisias. « ctel el nia’ s’e\soleteteie/e 220 Experiments on the Cause of Explosion of Steam-boilers.........sseceeeevecceees 137 Explanations and Illustrations of the Programme... ....e..eeeee eve wees steve efeheletle 133 Ebxqol OTA LT OM Se gett evel coraloheh eee! aheles cs sotciote: «\calet ave: eae] aval acl'e) Snes snelaveiel ate’: bebe 245, 220, 199, 181, 52 Bley onatl om bya kee Oley EsALCCs ot cfelee' 6! v' av o's leletaeha aleietse!s stave) sje’ stetet aici sve) sJoletel viel slols obey adeveT ets 200 Beeplorino? Expedition: MUsewm Ofsn <5 soc ss ss cin cetcioied sede ne alst oldest elles eine la eterele 182 BecplOsiVvieMess! OLMINILTEC cre. ors: sefeicfsie.cia,s 5 ciglovs wae evorcie eve ae cholo! a van clot eiele staleetoterohetstd asks 171 BEXpPOsitionvabn system Of Cataloguing’, «sis. c.s'oc enisie's vive oivlsletesin «ne sie/oe'aolele's ol eiel tela 241, 32 Extinct species of Fossil] Ox..........0eeeee Hansis ectal a alah autoretotalcn slots ateleteteieeley tetots 239 BERET ARCOPIES/OLVELE POLE OLACLEMs ote: 6: siecln:eiailsice so e'e'el olelsieie! o's! siecle! e6'e's ee \eels/e'sieieelets eee 3 _ Extract from an Address by the Secretary..........csccccccccrcese ove stoncoletore ae 120 Felton, et Otiey Oxi ©s sy LECLULES: Diy oie cles) siete oe e\sie cide im slefe'ene sis arc ae eee 251 Heltou rok Cx: 5 Memoir, examined: bys: s:nr:2.<1s'ssverec ss olelleoieove:eleie ciel elelotovotelielore 215 Felton, Prof. C. C., Recommendation of Choctaw Grammar...........eeceeccves 241 Hendler, Mr., Plants collected: by... 05 ..ti00's voce cieen oe akatasYaitchotoleale Orin do dp.t 212, 128 HatlueLenart Of the SECEOLARYs «so cice's od aicsheigies esto vied suas iad nated a enfeceraleetatde aaa 208 Hires Water eAur. Marth’: 14 ectUres! OM sei sere oes ois-s) see vo) eva) aoe) ana’ o! veers otalllncieleilellatetes OO 251 First Report of the Secretary, December, 1847 ......... 0002 -csccccceeseces Aictavare 127 HAT SITCSP TE COLVIEOR MIG Dt 2) ose) carers! oraecheveveray oollciteielcvesCeraice arene erica vist elevs cbaheel ofan orator auaetetee 53 HirtiallegeltiO sp VWAGON Ofseter<tcto. a =o sere) stereo shebelsreislava wasste: 5 al Sor el.stbs af oaitobebeieleteneetotetenens 205 Hitt hpklons .GroINi, Iesolution ony InCome's:. ove 6, aerere! de coves vv:ore/e:6iee) befell clave aleieteyere 72 Fitch, Hon. G. N., Resolution on Surplus Fund..... storeverevaialatel stated alens veretepeteee 72 Flora and Fauna within living animals........ sesteleys’« SehdFehoF oy clat eatoeh spate ie lote: ateieveten 215 Hlucels) Drs). GreoDistribution! of Publications) Dy rises vss «crete crecheleltore sole soy elele 38 Horeion! Distributionmandy Pxchan Ge vcyorsts oon ele\sie.cv/oleie: 60s oleie'olen'si ele slelesiele sieieulel ohuleys 37 Horeign) Institutionstin’ Correspondence’ sere eissies sicleivie + osls 00 0 oicic'se oles's sisielcehatele 40 BOLE matsp rOf bry p Outline MLA: Dyers «ysis cofetst o¥eldclerelclele cele ele aelavele whosiels taieietde sate 199 Foreman, Prof. E., Meteorological Correspondence, by.......... RR ose 6 oar 223 MOLES ta TOON REED ONLLOMN aveyara lect aqaleis, <sierc\e' aoe ia aca/haeis oes he alors ale. tale ele evens et elereeTe ye 217, 19 orsyth,, Hon? Inos.-luettertos from: Richard? Rush. <0. 6. ces «a's vices a glatenteie ce 108 Massils received: Soa terse.) sslechels! seuciel see Oo elves Steveveratey eical oj sioleelelelelctcckatete wlalsrehey= 54 Foundation of Symmetry in the Animal Kingdom, Lectures on...... CACO DRO HOC 251 Four Ancient Elements, Lectures on..........20.¢ Bie eh bes pal recog aida cheferereve shalt 251 Howler,» W. ©.4 Weetunestbyrreet as.s.1s!stercsl ests. ¢.sere oie Sactelare Sreickes Siercoferereleetolcaietetetstehe 230 Mouth) Report of the Seeretanyr ta oss ss ete css pale wieleblend vos lelecebebie wee Giorarca cures 185 Frances lnstituti ons iulvyeteracrsretrW eats) ove vet a: stsrarcver slot ab, sisnarateror Tatoo ere Woavorelsvereitionete sere 45 Hrance wIueCtULeS! Olle sicrevalaverteeverctstevafelevsvaie cio sniaslaldevelorsts ea ajoreteters Ristelcredaeteeiders tie ais 27 Frémont, Col., Plants discovered by......... waveeretare Siwcilas Stine sel cletelatterter at siete he’s o's Aca 213 PRE UC UM ACACEINYOf SClenCes mreretersetetehe/ctasiars /si xf a1: cs: ats.</asdererete olgteselete Storaehets ete sfenie 165 Fruits of the Active Operations.............00. arate daKeets Boley cteratoYere ele ch slallavoreleh ole toot oie 231 Funds, General Statement of....... eraictekeftars aes gee Patera th tara Ole care woe eas aovitee 235, 66
Gallatin, A., letter from .......... ei ahectafsketer aiche) chehieie\e) slechatolareise:ctelee sclens sidicclol feet 142

<<<Page: 264>>>

Page.
Gallatin, A., letter to, from Prof. Henry..........sist pahetel t (a ofens nie folelnpeealetaatoles shel 141 Gallery of Art...seseeereeeeereee njseia’e's eience wiwlstestatelotaieis Elaiarts al sselacialote Gator relate aa metas General considerations in adopting plan of organization .....0..eeeseeee eee ei ees 128 General Expenses, Remarks on.........e.eese0e lefspates Siete Ua ailove Tse Se ae 951 Geography, promotion of, by the Institution .....+++s.e+eee ee Bis hs's) sierelalaiet tetra 231 Geology, Lectures On .... sce ee ceee cece cree rete e tee tee eeene ayaslaisie’s\sachele 251, 230, 183 Geology, promotion of, by the Institution. ......-+++4pei ananl Sete ichalel ersc/<Volersiers Shc 232 Germany, Institutions in.....es. sees eee e ee By de Biayeiet sie aU oor ahae talenas. onl sietorees 49 Gibbs’s, Prof., recommendation of Choctaw Grammar....+esseeeeceeeeeeeceeeees 241 Gibbes, R. W., Memoir by... ....-..cccceceecccs secre ecccre ces eecscnencrcenns 172 Gilbert, Davies, Notice of Smithson, by... ....sseeeeee cere cece eee cence cece en ees 109 Gillis, Lieut. J. Mo... .cccccc cesses nese e scene ceccen sens ccen eves nese as 245, 203, 163 Girard, Chas., Catalogue of Serpents by........ FACOG On DID Ona smiech 00D 6 : 19 Girard, Chas., Exploration by... ...seeesseeese cece sree cece ee cn eeces sfoyeletberens ate 220 Girard, Chas., Memoir by......+silage %S wis bela aioipl oo ove tohetesteas eines onamrete she eaidtereetens 192 Gould, B. A., Lectures by ...--.+++0-SRO OF Se ee Hama ntalb ote ie etaatis Veroe slobayere 251 Gould, B. A., History of discovery of Planet Reeds AACE CRIED 6 oT ad OO 179 Graham, Col., Apparatus delivered t0 ..... ese e cere cere eects ee an ewe etees are 204 Grammar of the Choctaw language.......6.-+ e+e BOOK Gets OS oS trOn a aOrO a: eieks 241 Grand Manan, Marine Invertebrata Of... ....cccccceesceeecres erst ccaseseccsecs 17 Gray, Dr. Asa, Planta Wrightian@.... 0.06. eee ee eee eee erence eee enter ence ees 238, 212 Gray, Dr. Asa, Plants referred to... sees se eee ce er eee er eee tenet etre eeceees 227 Gray, Dr. Asa, Report on Forest Trees, by... -+-.+-eeeeeeeeeeeee sioctere « 425 Q1iu LOA wD Gray, Dr. Asa, Report on Programme, bye. +++ sree ee eree ener eens oetcederershateotens sere 155 G@reatsBritainsand Ireland, Institutions in. oo... 0.0 20:00 do.0,0.0 celts see rece scene anew 47 Greece, Institutions iM. ...... 0... vee cccieceeecrecenesesacns scene Bb vouk stave ielg canoe betes 49 Gregg, Dr., Collections by.......+esseeeee cece ee eeees AE OnO aD OE ROMO ON Onan ODS 212 Greek Literature, Lectures OD. o.oo. ce cccc ccc cer cece cca cians cc encscreesccs siele 251 Green, James, Meteorological Instruments made by... .. 20. ee eee eee ee eee erences 197, 175 Guatemala, Institutions in... ..... ccc cece cece esccceeerceenececcecensasenesecs 50 Guest, W. E., on Mounds.......... Stil ie etiad bora’ Svar ay slesvaliesei axes oualanetadeaodaevelarsioe ceteisyerete 219 Guyot, Prof. A., Barometrical Exploration by ......6. esses eee sees cere ee ete eee V7 Guyot, Prof. A., Lectures by.....eece ee ee cree ec te cence cece e ene ee en teeeees HF Guyot, Prof. A., Meteorological Tables..........+seereeeesreeeee aloe) siaise\egalashotons 242, 217 Guyot, Prof. A., Proposition made by ....--.+.++aeiaa's epee) esteraay si sie’ <ie.si/soleel serch 165 Guyot, Prof. A., Heport on Meteorological Instruments. ...+.-sse esse sees eeeeeee 180 Haldeman, Prof. S.S., Coleoptera.'...0. 6 o.je.0,s'ssje,sle ee a teloinels ose oe 00 co oe ae emelpil 18 Haldeman, Prof. S. 8., Lectures by ....-.....200 SES ODO AE OOM BETOmO co0 Sc 35 230 Halls Prof. James, Troost’s, Memoir.cs ..s.cj./aia cscs cn wiessieee 0 ©.02 +,0'05 10-9 clevin) seiels 213 all, Rev.,Jno., Lecture by..\.'s'2.1s\2 0's » «1s !speilerie sie iererie Me atadisis, gate aisfelce Gore eieee ios 207 Hare, Dr. Robt., Apparatus of, repaired... cc cere e ce er cece tee cess cere cece al Meperehs 204 Hare, Dr. Robt., Donation from.......... Shctays ee ets Papa auoliee 1c 3i,aie'iae) alte. sa ohmeyeberretce elle 180, 167 Hare, Dr. Robt., Experiments of...........+: Wapemiccieal sia lav cys en's’: o Grand eso seie eRogatoutetereene 201 ere MET ELOD La, IVLGMOLT Dy. 214) <i0 7 wicimoeisio siejneiocelries wie ie 6.00 s0 oe oie sheteleielelejevesislatelale atl Hare, Dr. Robt., Remarks respecting Apparatus Of.........cceeeeees cece scenes 102 Harlan, Dr., Species described by.......eeecrceescrcccccsecsetecscccnccccceces 241 Harmonies of Nature and History, Lectures On...... eee cee cece cc recccsescoecs 27 Harvey, Prof. W. H., Lecture by.....6... se cee ese e cere eee encseeccseoceseeees 207 Harvey, Prof. W. H., Marine Algw............ alahstcne\s «| o.¢siate. eleanor Rado sooUGe 235 192 * Brawley, Gideon. 20... cc cence crc cce rece see ccec ees enes saeseu ee anise So nabere 175 Hays, Dr., Opiyion of Memoir on Extinct Sloth. ..........+eeeeeeeeeee SOOO 241
Henry, Patrick, Lecture on.......... densie le jecaeie ai% wieele oven alouental tate emeeebetotsteletelosasiol« Q7

<<<Page: 265>>>

Page. Henry, Prof. Jos., Letter from, to Hon. Albert Gallatin..............4. aopeteiatoteys 141 Henry, Prof. Jos. See Secretary.......+++-+++sfenieiatelts Suipene coca ool Ses patelios oe Herbarium, North American. ...... sees eececcccees ivadiadests sYesolciskele tele elepaevetotsias 212 Phinitsonsublicy Architecture 5. \-ipim ayeisdelels chess. sieeie a/0\e/er0/2 14 (siee; stele) efelaloaiae sie eceyacininiate . 166 Historical Society of Minnesota... 1.20. ..s.sesseeeeeeees eerste ata spor ous otelefoiclssvaiate -. 214, 178 Historical Society of New York.........cereecsssscceeccees elailaaiafaze)ajanselarere sees 172 History as a Science, Lecture on...... apsuey woh ay ele as atetcrereutehers absicbale etn iarelsieera, yale 2930 History and Peculiarities of the English Language, Lectures on..... nioheto}sistahslereleho.s 207 Hitchcock, President Edward, Investigations by .......seeeceeeeeeece store sharers Sercls 200 Hitchcock, President Edward, Lectures by............. easceiajaiet sfousteteneruousyeloesietstale 183 Holbrook, Dr., on Reptiles.......... fale: exsisalie, sie!s sisisieianaictalelner aera ete OOS DCO DOGS 19 Hollands Institutions is.6,0)2,..2 «/0,0/06,,0,08 Bis ey syanbeke/ aaslecey ay sotenee iene lec saettelstctons AGO OC 4] Holland, Lecture on......... Sadeveheieysyckseievens; teelcnes susete distort choleyiahaia calcbels aliictouae otabeines 207 Honorary Members, List of........ sfavetlars; Seleleise 6's pisiies iaie\e sienolsioiere a= Pishellaisseysie's otader 6 Honorary Member, Nominations for........... wofeke} sie, eloie <fesyerele syselefousenabiais s'ocee LOZ LOL Hopkins, President Mark, Lectures by.......ecsscececssece ROOD OO CECI ED AC 251 EXGrnvic One Sip Greiaye) «155405815 5.02.01") 510) 00,0, 5800 SOE CUS ODOC LOC » iLereaoleks otdials shes opelo(elets 191 dye SenM Dhrreup Gx WAVY ater 51 oa\lei oof ener io7e) 9) 9165)01ejeeuae,ousseyeatsioje.s (olse.atshe al esiche.e SRO nto cT Oba Ve 16 Hygrometer described. ..... 20.0006 aleteysveis aun tclalaveyola yoke ts skedois:Siate ho onset emeeR tora ets 198 Neelandaelmshisu trons Mnl-).\/jnsieie;e sie /oo:0is oelelee,.<iejeje.e wsvers 0 (e\'eisie cheelaieiejeisleie sfecitveveleyelsi's 4] Increase and Diffusion logically distinct.........sisieiole emioye is siege wie soe lonte piskareherte 134 Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge, plans for.............e200eSisielelelsspeleieeets 129 Increase of general expenses...... msdo\e js soot ofa[eielslatiateveteyenjereisvesieyeley sleis|e sl leheyestoloexeds 251 Mnrdiretions UECtULe OMisis,«,<6:<10;6,0)<0/2,s/00,0,0,0016 sorte kesiG} oie er sveraees olseinlacieients ny eeuettelods Raat 230 Institutions for the Diffusion of Knowledge..........cecccssseccccercsece syereisioteys 134 Institution for the Increase of Knowledge.........eee ees eees Setehsa/elareieleiaietete seh 134 Instruments for Meteorological Observers. ...-...+.+s00 Dietcatelejeletosiare wietsiefoters 197, 175, 174 ADETHO PLO US|/COMEUSINGGS: «+ sj e;e2\='s\eseyer oo \eposer ious #e0s1eye19e Sse ooo w.scosneswlegeaiseieste sleteiets 236 Invertebrata received, 1853. .......ecccee8 seat Sraecaidic a cusvoursokelate eaten tatara sistant smeie 53 are prep Nan PULTCIGSS (210 oso ,5)ms aj abele pi scejeiny sy*.ntes ein hee ere 2958.8 syeyoyen) =p 240 ,elejay 0) Fe yaierasiae seen 46 Jackson; Dr: Survey of Mineral Lands... «2, ..,2,0,s.0.05,¢.0.0/s cejec\ceceeinines Soaibictcels eees 146 Jefferson, President, first account of Extinct Sloth, by.....0....ccscsscccccsnccees 239 Jewett. CuCs,, Report, for 1853). | sieeeisjese:s o.0;a6 Pietaee rach orahetetslaterae a spotisleleacteue hacereiee 29 Jewett ib. ke Co Agents.,.,...0 ostesieielerreers ais av sve; sigalg [araca. olehe tary pasate oleate slieVovsls 51 Jewettsbrocton,. 6 Worthington) Aments). 15 .<,.,0,0016,5 010.s0:0s/ele}se' si 6 ¥olblsiejelfeie eel sia /elers 51 Johnson, Professor J. F. W., Lecture by.......s.seseeees nfs) sa ioke a eke elyeshene efatelsts 207 cine Dry MER ME CLUTES! Dyas op -lhyoye wo oherss¢(e\aie\ seiese, eieioheis ¥\,2y¢,090 e/ejece)4)= sateen AE its QoL, 27 Koeppen, Professor, Lectures by...... Sia ake sista ialetodahespol ope teisie’ + euaicealena seals etesheererteloy 183 Piallandes\<.c.c/eresiehayersie NOGES We BUGS CORTOHICGn Ps Oe Malay staraeeal stata aoesie vate a sledsteatehess 169 Lambdin, J. R., Letter from, on Moulds from Elgin Marbles......... BES ee 78 Land Office, series of Magnetic Observations in........eeeesceeeee lsh abeveGis etetate is 22 Lapham, I. A., Antiquities of Wisconsin. .......seceeesress BR ions Bee A dG be 14 apham,.1. A., Survey of Mounds, by... 05.0000. 0.0.00,0,0,05 6 s00 02 0 2e)eis seieiels thesis 220 Law of Deposit of the Flood-Tide........... avid lsuererateus laters loreted-stcheyebearanets Shacicrats lovers 215 aiawrences, Lon. “Abbots. ssyclae stebeysicoie(ejeseree 0.0 6: selialéyeavarseaye sakes spel afctstaserension tei stone aioe 205 Lawson, Surgeon General Thoinas..........e0.ceeeeree svejaciayoistinlensiohelelexeleake she} sie 176 fe Conte, Dr. J. L., Coleoptera........ 2.0.2.0: BEE be ROO ROU DOE COCO eT Danoe 18 PME CUUNEH OOM) njo9.0'0 leis niotelolotsetetoves tay efeisin ctaic stajeis) #1 <fs\c¥a/<fo!0)a)/aleishats eie|ays sieyelsiciaile 'e)e\a\e 206 ‘LECIITERDS CBOSS GOCIOIODLOO OO 00-p 0 Jb. 0U6 BODE COR AAU COCO GU OCeCS 250, 228, 206, 183, 27 NBER TWEDMOE Ks »\0jei0) o1s's1ensieyeueieisfaysfolakone Ropereotel eT aieketaiwaneiscssichetetsiecis: <iejouelaiorals erasreteteas ac 17 Wemoy,,Captain. J."H., Aurora. op, sinaigieie rier .oisie.eleera« epcbe ava piwaiatrebevs sina lovers sinh sts oo bee
Leidy, Dr. Joseph, Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, .......00essseeeeceesccre Sereda 11

<<<Page: 266>>>

Leidy, Dr. Joseph, Extinct Species of Ox......... Es bale foloiobyn inion ioiehs ia sdetedenr pete ve)eyaie
Sueidy, Dr. Joseph, Flora and Fauna: s../102s.00:0s 6,8 c.0lee Sis e s ee lacie» clefe s\n /eoinyetete lets
Leidy, Dr. Joseph, organic remains, sent to...... sjesekeh eile ieiesorermessle ate stacloysterele che
Leidy, Dr. Joseph, Report on Specimens from Nebraska. .....,.0eeeceeeeceeeees
Leopoldin Caroline Academy ......... S tosteveue asap abe Atte ape d enone ve weueleoe lee helo eters
Letter from three Regents calling special meeting. ...... sec. eee cece seeeceencees
Letter to the President of the Senate....... a(S ose (obo welle eifa toe ate patel tne he raje oles ele gapstets 3 HevernierpblanetaNepLanes ic /oicje o.)s\siba'a i's eisioles soils 6 Btsielelaiee' slays ote ee eee eee eeeees 170 Pibrariess CvepOLe OM. 1. /./sis'v/os.0 eee 0 4.s'0/e.b.o Aww oleicleveje one ele ee Sein b bela helolsiee fe sain@a 216 ME bEr MRLOLESCOLeiaisoitid ie oleei4;% one fais 0/0 vole elena wialencis Laisa ajereniohetanteteteretosiovers oy 191 Wat brany..' recite wte.'stohs skates fatare terdielis'eVarelch sists) claidelters 253, 249, 248, 223, 204, 181, 166, 29, 26 Wimdheimens|s\.16 2% tae. 660006 8's aia fataloinyoretesrere a fotassioio 6 loleleife fafa cfotafe a ainielaze ert eneted haere 212 Lippincott, Grambo, & Co., Agents. .......ccccccrcscccccrccesccessessenecences 51 Literary and Scientific Assemblies, rooms thrown open for....esseeeeeeereeenees 140 Locke, Dr., Employed in Survey of Mineral Lands ........... Sreyeshetetelclaie¥eleltepeters 146 WOKS, JON te atsie.'s.0 sis%s o's 0% alata tn taffeta fo tescra tore lo aistets evevepototetcheballitelans Act telenebesrsvelistioters 213 Monson and Edinburgh Journals: <.cjetss xX teres rele wareletele/ololoicole;ceters celolale o/s\sie learns 193 Longfellow, H. W., Report on Programme....+....sse.eeeGyofod= oe fayeeteiets aistat lake 155 Loomis, Prof., Estimate of Expenses for Meteorological System. ........eeeeeeee 160 Loomis, Prof., Exposition of Advantages from Study of Meteorology........+.++147 Lowell Institute.......... edastats Feveletiaisss oierraenon vers o'sai'e'vn dh avclya oy deh aubseh ouclahavcvelatelate 250, 192, 183 Gudlows ‘DrnIno.; Wectures by seis io.trs 512. s'sie ols os oin/e aienieofei etsel vielels seyelolevtvleie spacers 230 Macie, James Lewis, Original name of Smithson... 2... sess cccceecscceececcvcecs 108 Magnetic Force, Dip, Inclination, and Intensity of... 2... eee e eee eeees SJeversvacnatess 213 Magnetic Instruments, Description of....... ahe\ajare! nieie\bloreelelotaleie'e;e/ovejers le aolelesesersreteleys 20 Magnetic Instruments purchased, .......0sccretcccccccrerescrcscsssscecsesess 204 Miapmetic. Observatory: ./.:< «soi ss so's' oe sea 010.0 un '0ie'sie\be\n ee wee sie smwleieleineielslssieie eiece 21,20 ANVATMELISIM: icishe «loos ove. le 108 2,0,9)'5. 06 ors fo /n/0.0ve le fae aye) f0'9s\ e/a fe loonie nie erie lei sls 232, 204, 176, 162, 19 Mammals received 1853 .......... ad Nios fo lwleroyeie fo loiool wy ovfoye anya iota FHouSHosoods vopoo hdc 52 famine tA ages) .1e siutes, 2 is 'a"ooeaie's'ed 00’ Scoows Gyan, jeinjerolcveterele rete riofsves iefalesesretels sheeple ods le Diarine “Algae, Lectures On... 0.20.0 ove 0501061 s0isieoe oe 0s oe cersielses vet sins Asad 95 3 207 Marine Invertebratarof Grand Manan .... sjccicisociviteicie e wlascis cclnle 0 \cvie eielelsvicieie es VW Marsh, Geo.-P:, Reportion Squier & Davis... so 0000003000 ese cis ecicicee secs gees 144 Mason, Hon. J, M., Resolution on Powers of Secretary... cecscesececececcescce 98 Massachusetts Meteorological System. .......+0:+4ateeteietopekastove voles efore’ oie sista charset 222; 197 Mauvaises Terres.......... ate GYayolechsetefolsede = sfefeinleleiache 316.004 DU SRO GOORTOG o Gos. 0 OG 200, 14 Mietntyre, Archibaldss 06 sé seis hassles fot eit <0)5 sdofaso shafoleteVasva:e(o}sian'ste' ls oreveauevestatehetegs 196 Meacham, Hon. J., Appointed on Special Committee... ........ cece cece secre enns 77 Meacham, Hon. J., Resolution on Estimates........eeeeeee 0 (Serre (oro ravteia so te Wesyenehetenenene 5 Mechanism of Speech, Lecture 0n........+e2e.0e0> aSoee nis oxo e/eiaye le sicloteereretatenetens 230 Meeting of the Establishment..........00eceeeeee 95.0, 0-Co COROO DEAD o. c Sieeteloicte 5 27 Meisheimer, FG, Coleoptera.:.:.\0.0 saiote sje scisdae teleaioicess'se es alejeis Copetseepeheste see 217, 18 Memorial on Uniform Coinage......... Syne ANeleyeveleteiaiofenicl nie «ie sisleieleyelectetete elevisfolsiets 78 Memorial to Congress on Surplus Fund..........seeeeeeeeenes Cod oo o.0n 545°C 5 78 Meteorological eeaerees Bforteis fo blots laseuetetelepetenefekelo/ois1e o/s oceserualalceue Cape pee enervete 199 Meteorological Instruments. . wales ate Siiatehetefeiielotete (e's 0 /0\0e.a\ ete cvoleleeuche OMe CO roe LON Meteorological Observers, Jan. 1, 1854. Sale ciye foroye sols fos /o 0 (0c lossshaperevoneteye doodagods 60 Meteorological Observers, commencing since Ist Jan., 1854........04. Sevesseeoceeraiees 64 Meteorological System of New York (established 1825) ............06 ale salelaieyerers 196, 175 Meteorological Tables..... Bide Sle ah injh fo ne.oya,oterenis <9 0 0 00 din,nyn hanya ate ulatete banieheyate wae 217 Meteorology, Promotion of, by the Institution........ ojos) sndsokefectoete Miobepafatslovencotelets 231
Nibteorolopy, Sy stewaOls cneiswierosine v0)e\ee ss msecreie.s wasn che 222, 195, 174, 23
—s =

<<<Page: 267>>>

Page. Method applied to Investigation, Lectures On. . sss. sess ses eeeceennsecetnecens 251 Metropolitan Mechanics’ Institute, Models lent to.........ssseeeee secre ctrec eee 76 Metropolitan Mechanics’ Institute Lectures ......cssecccsreccetsecceeneccserees 27 Wrexico, Institutvonsiimhietcierssiclsi siceislcicelereree's e:cinies a's aveweuvarallololsretel sicicrorove cvs (oysalerettar 50. Microscopic Examination of Soundings.........+..++ Siejeieeicereis'e\siavieisive vleee'e seve 192 Microscopic Organisms, New Forms of... ..0..0secceeserescescececesseceses erie 17 HWinera le eCenved eked cleleterloleieis.cevsiorsie:s+ie(s.clehapieysieieleiejoleye clelele eV orefsbolenvolatelsterstcierstane 54 Minnesota, Historical Society of........ccccsecsrccsrecccseccers mVevctorVetestorstoiele 214 Mitchell, Miss Maria..........08. alcoho leas ovat eseicloistoneley sha televorers alo evatel stofepensereratsstatataters 171 Modern Athens, Lecture on....... sYatvexelocehan storeperatal siclavavecterehe) eveclevoterelecte ter ekate stonexcveas 183: Modern Egypt and its Institutions, Lectures on.....eseeeeeeee stolscfel oyatelercverchenstelere 27 Modern Europe, Lectures on. ....00cecccrceveees metals Weloke state Go ricond ccodrobt atic 27 Monograph of the Fresh Water Cottoids.....csccececsccscscsccneccreceecrecs ie 192 Monograph of Mosasaurus.....sseecsreceececececs sievesyateleferss{e speteliosiel shee Bacon oda lel IMlorfit, (Camp belliyijcjecyeiere.s ctocveieis/cle/0lcleje'e vvelsieie Sisheraforatsleibetsfelele efoated stetd ated sfoleveveislerete 216 Morphology of the Vegetable Kingdom, Lectures on......... edavouystalayatecte/eteteyortonere 207 NiGnTIsspr De INO Gres LiCCEURES! Diyz.r. co: ot ctare’s ae 'are /oieisuVerelese ealeieiae|c'eieie-e sisielsereie' sie) sisisiate 230 Morton, Samuel G., Report on Squier & Davis....... sec cee eee cee Saieteiecrencietere 144 Mosasaurus, Monograph of... ..esceescecreveccees oh sia sberetetercelereie'e:So'eletclel evi eistelsi= 191, 172 Mounds of Western Virginia........ssccseeseees Sioletols's.ichelelo}s-cjerelotcelateleteinerctTotonens 203 Mower,) Dr.; Valuable Aid. from... ....005ss000s0 Sire wveieten a ore cleo ser ave od adinterctontaters 197 AVitelters) MEW orks on) ELeCtricity:. -icres eieieiotes-eie/ecelatetere cielo icievenieleloseiselcieieleiesie (ees elels 19 IVECIS@ WTI: staves ote s\aya\e oleehat evel'slore alerAbravalee @ sivieteieiee olaiaiele’ 20g 24952205, 2025 1815 565 od tolaece Museum of Exploring Expedition.......... eVeleeveiotetarale otaloS oie stor olorars\otels|s:eleraatetale dc 182 National Museum, Importance Of... 6.cc..eccee cscs cecsoes a wake/ovetoys o/eVetalctehsks 227 Natural History, Promotion of, by the Institution.......... tsadececeseicns eeoees 232 Natural History, Work done in,.... ai shasjaicrs (eterotelalate/fotalo siesta alalersleloal s cietatalolaye: letetele 55 INaiitical¥Al maniac’ .s. <2 <720 os.0% « cieserel oe SAiaaaie ecb aula esta sie leorel steels as 244, 221, 201, 173 Neptune, Ephemeris of ...........0006 Giaeiclel tiie eaielereaveleyetele stele sete evs O15, 2015, 1735 168 Neptune, History of Discovery of Planet ....+.ssseeceereee SOBOK Sietstohensiere] shee B00 179 Wepeunes Wemoir onthe) Planet js eres orcrelate ere tes alc'e cles s'als'e'oe el sveslatersiolee tetaveretate 169 New Expedition in Search of Sir tits Franklin, Lecture on........ Sieives elereres aioks QT New York Meteorological System......... seValay sehets ters Sista g siecle eserdye stearelotekenn olalevatt ope amie New Vorki Meteorological: Observers. le. coe © ci0iss sale wees vaine.o0 ae sie ce asieoweieeees 63 Nitre, Explosion of..........0. mlefesterele weaerelatal elevate issie Sie telsics aint aVole steievahelsteve=istofeens 171 Norman, B. M., Agent.......... anes talelabevensafateiay slevoleyeleleobets ‘aicrs ave ekeioterohetoecteshaletelets 51 INOTWaive LOSEILMELONISNIT srevelelvactevclelciee cle! ete os (ololeroteetelecret sls) e\¥ eo.eiaew « steisyeheteiotelaiatcvetols 4] Notices of Public Libraries in the United States...... of oh alfa aot ci econ sveitesrorsiehansteverete 216,°194, 31 Objections.to publishing Memoirs answered... 0... cccscccecsscscsecvsecevecvacves 159 Observations in Series or Summaries.......... arinoc apo caus anoocce sfolatetelceveyelavepa 64 @pbservers,. Classes, Ofsevsjerse/lesrerse sole © Taser ahene cave ei Mees Bialelicstevsteteie’ sKalalgiovereeeteteveys 174 Birsonverss, Last of Neteoralasi callt.\./hosieresre:eiole/a eiulsie/elcwicva siajes'sloie)s aisiaie eer oieletenseisiat 60 Occultations, Description of............ddiotisiatan oe Wsavetalaorel clovetaictatersrerelceentctetetohe 244 Occultations for 1850.......... jmdopacecsnadac Sete cretette afaye ver stalatetareers fevebetehare 173 Wecultations'for-LS5l-« jcietevesterstelslacvels ayeves's stalleieeVclevave e/sieiels fe te) sVohielekeretelekevor sie toralctet eters 201 Occultations for 1852... ecws s/<rieiee Ghelefoles wi wicVelas o,ciojoleleterescevevolcreteiatavelenie retereeiate 222 Octavo publications for 1853......... saltfoteteleayate\orelenstcveletasirsietess oroteysjeictotetes oto ster : 37 Oticers ofthe Institution. clajrerstaveteiseiecice © wicieres mieiiatelecatele ereciaxcy(eisolasafelelec/eieteels 5 Original Researches........... Ma telelaretevebeie aseketie re heversc lite were 245,990.99, 172.) 1595026 Original Research, Encouragement to.......ceeessecsseces bqc\dooundecde aiererslvaxete 137 Origin and Growth of the Union during the Colonial Period, Lectures on .....---207
Papers presented to Royal Society by Smithson ........cessccseesceseeceees circa SLED

<<<Page: 268>>>

266 INDEX. Page. Papers referred to in Report of Select Committee, to be communicated to the BOAT iva sion cle sista theres noe clo aiecicre oiwics oVavcvelals alalemmtene einteu lorcet to) seth teers Ree 97 Parish, Henry, Bill for Canina’s Architecture. . . o,0ce's0resicisice cleeecevcercccseee 15 Peale, Titian R., Mounds at St. Louis...... on oleldlelscfoisletaladitatele'ec a/c! storcteten iaiotete 219 Bearce, HON sad cs FeO OUty Ob scc > vc ve.s ccc 0c cclsleles olsielalactelstael ete oe oferetetehe iin ars 81 Peirce, Benj., Report on Programme.......+-+.06 a alaetele afb sie etaiel ke sele o dlottleetetate (155 Peirce, Prof. B., Planet Neptune .......... FADOR OCB Gto Obie licu Best: 244, 222, 202, 170 Ehases ofthe: Atmosphere, Lectures OM. .'s 0200000000 0nes oo vid ie babividein.s vb .\t ene 251 Photographic Register of Motions of the Magnetic Needle........ sistas, evel sis ole Saldaye . MOReeD Physical Geography of United States... .cccccccsecvccseesccce slsinietarcieiatele stele -. 177, 171 Epeysicdl society. Of Berline’s .sic5s siacic.o sipcee woleisee visage od ejale slalneoletela daia.dies dials 165 Physiology, Promotion of, by the Institution ...... 2s 9 bein.plols vain winionfestchnvislosintaloate 232 Ridreon, Win., Exploration of Mounds. byiae oso secieisieies ies eveisisle ieee saivideie tlallenb ale 219 Pike, B., and Sons, Instrument Makers......... ABO nO AM Ron oe s(anieezejele ersileke WEI Os Ein Rise, Rev.(C.'C.5 Lectures: by... .00....ss0s0 srpistayociey sient p'eisete ose stale wie is eis oe sin exeansy aie 27 Plan of Organization........ prone oud aralacketote ai pilaleen sisi ole isia fefap ip’ ol siete he m)arelqja atetele 129 Planet Neptune .. 0.0. 065 scree shes! ofefelefobiatels e¥es (ait ce eereccesccee 44, 221, 201, 169, 160 Plame EMO NbIAN ED .'0/a/a.c eles # o'p.h's\oleeielels ete pielle\e jie, ofefeieya aielett @iaie\ ies oahe, miele pekas’ eels 212 Blamibaol Wig DDI AT ee 7.5 seveis os bee @ » seo ee waleseyelsieje o. eleven’ 6/aleisleloisteloe ols jssfalel aisle safelets ead COM AMER AAMESTECEIV ED 18 DSsai2 sia0s:eie es s'alse rela sloe'ea's v'ee'e as was oats biel shakers tildote srelauliae aerate 53 Roetry, Lecture on ........500 ences ote e acne acnes sistealn’s Sacmiplenie.serless fee ee eoesy 230 Policy in Accepting Donations........... Wiciaieouie|elsialeig ee aastererahalezejelaene/elaevaterteratets 209 Portraits of North American Indians in Smithsonian Institution.............. aoe 242 Portugal, Institutions in... s..eg2 cess ees 2 aise i bic'n'elviwate sacl valent delaeloheakescteke selsers 47 Rotter, Rev. Alonzo, Lecture byo% 2. .sdescesscecscscesc sectors Baknicleteidclejralotensets 207 Primordial Arrangement of Existing Systems, Lecture on...... skekotectetetsts ery aercetste 207 Proceedings of the Board.of Regents, <6. s.escececccsncessacieiesieels Poo coop DLouGt 72 roprammipy O16 Ox oaniZation ais o's; 5¢)e»,.0J0, 510) © 4 «+]0;0; 0)sh05 je 0j0LeGoparetaopere, de laesseoleite Aetehete 128 Programme of Organization, Report of Committee of American Academy on...... 148 Prominent idea of Smithsonian Operations.....c.cccceecsessrecceccsccscesecs a 253 Publications, Advantages of..........06. a abate wich avele/ayal's, ale) tiny ccloteretereeiany ecnatetoverseketede 135 EDI CALIONS, ses sel-ses.a00-5 corti «105; ots Sataisieceiotes ohetecete tier cfeters "236, 210, 190, 168, 156, 36, 11 Purchases of Objects of Natural History not to be made.....seeeecseeueeeeceeeee 202 Fautnam,'Geo. P.,,and Co-, Agents. .0\. 2 602<'s epeicas sn afotctsNelHetelors’ oeln's steleretecke eects 51 Queen Elizabeth and Oliver Cromwell, Lectures on...........+ rate is'e's! ake sl evepeteebeine 251 Radiant Heat, Investigations on ......+.+4i aisied © = Rape be ciate eile <:0)s ca 0)sisapoueeiane 163 Rain and Snow Gauges. ..-eseceeesrsecs ee atecseas Svisie 5 4 slave sd # so, aval encivctae sehen 198 Receipts during 1853......... eeaeiais ais saloiaieichohe antes Shei teieielece tr tetteeeereeeee 67 Receipts by Exchange, 1853.....0.....+++ é telg sotebole ellareicaib!e ssasaminla'e, so vleleraletats ch 50 Received for American Institutions, &c..... sribeisi a ajacked acs) tye hiesie'e, ola) eieteschale siete oe te ior 50 Received from American Institutions for distribution abroad.........eeeeeeeeeeeee 40 Reciprocal Action of two Galvanic Currents... .eccsscecccreccccrecccsesscecnes 191 Recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts........ afaelal cfs oh chaticle tole sehelelehirestere 242, 216, 19 Recent Progress of Astronomy, Lectures On... osseeseeeccececceeecenes states ciatateva 251 Reed, Prof. Henry, Lecture by....... MatacUelstatel doles s'ct.</s\« « sieisna Aaa eee tceR ete 207 Regents of the Institution, List of.......... Pe eiela's @ dejele wc celaran Steere ee Ree ee zi prea 5 Regents of the Institution, Proceedings of. .........0.oe 0/0) a ipevelafevervieletelahne ote aleve 72 Regents of University of New York. ....s.e2eeccccssccccreesceccessccccsresces 175 Registers of Periodical Phenomena.......+eecrecesreee eheseies A 32d staves stove 56 Relations of Time and Space, Lectures on...-eececersseees ASG ae ioo Aono Oso 207 Removal of Assistants by Secretary authorized by Board...... Lin tfevera atatctefe teefuyele = ss 98
Removal of Assistants, J. M. Berrien’s Opinion on... . cece cece eee e eens eee erees 119
re ee eee ee

<<<Page: 269>>>

r , INDEX. 267
bag ing
Page
Report of American Ethnological Society........... welefeisharactstcreniere «sls aiafeleptetatel et 142 Report of Building Committee..........+..4. piniafetalsisisieeietele's! siniwieissiajeloraleateeate recte 69 Report of Executive Committee..... wiaue’e, gipteloie ate Wl aie! piaishaityls(a;a/a{esiete e weplere slejelelsjeleee 66 Report of Committee of American Academy of Arts and Sciences on the Programme
Og Oy ranizaOMsrertelsfersicie\ewe'se\lenlelsieaieisies 9 Siaistharele uieimevants ataiste orethaveys eee 148 Reports of the Secretary from 1847 to 1853........... ast nieVslehetotolocegetsoial a ctaree etal tae 125 eportiom the Secretary fom) 48. .7 5.0/0 sts)s\e ace /cies\sie el elsievsielen Gus sahaelote|setaretayateray sists 156 Report of the Secretary for 1849.......... Siar teueyseuelacalie Lecpabevsicietaycterectlectaronet Monta elope 168 Report of thé Secretary for 1850......... ARH AC CAC ptetsleReokalletoteoketsfaleuety sfaiealeres 185 Report of the Secretary for 1851.......0.u.2se008 sLesloisievetssteisis lose acsioveiotalcateicts AC 208 Report of the Seeretary for 1852... 6... -cccerercae deotoksifelsiaiovl =| siefolakecheteksrinate epeveks 231 Report of the Secretary, for: 1853.............. diel stonaielere pies heahoravetelocieisyorsiasieetseke 9 Report of Select Committee ordered to be printed...........0.+see0e as dvs foalalaistee 97 Report of Select Committee on Estimates..............0c0008 aliajefakey slot el’ot slate satsloveceie 78 Report of Select Committee on Resolutions of Messrs. Fitch and Meacham........ 81 Report on Forest Trees... .....eeee Cnajele|vieiecl efeces)e) sissy chelsisicieiarehact ane + 242, 217, 194, 179 Report on Libraries................4sjesestasessfalsisha'a aisha «) <e\s siaverestevele/atestors Geers tore 216, 194, 31 Reports on Progress of Knowledge........ shots iets SOAAD LOG ac 241, 216, 193, 179, 164, 138, 19 Reptiles received 1853...... Ooleiavicteters xis. she,eelather(shejelavsyersiene: oieieisl ofeisispeceisefehets atseiatekeKela 53 HRESCALCHES. 2 o/.0¥e woe ac oecnes “SII ECCI ODENCGIC ere eekalotajalenverclotete 245, 220, 199, 172, 159, 26 Resolution of February, 1847, carried out.......-... a e.esnis-aie wisjalotastolalerherier oles tete 252 Resolutions) submitted, by Select, Committee... + os 0ccseec cence ar sivivie cuicisie cies ccs 97 Richmond Atheneum, Arrangement by, respecting Lecturers.............s0e008250 RisgeeRevaus. be, Dakota Gramma; DY. ,»,+,+19, 0,0, 9: 0:¢0/6 i oisi0'616010) 6. s0l0\e ejeles aislewiowie 214 Robinson, Edward, Report on Squier and Davis... ......cscecencecececcces oie te 144 Roeers, Prof. Hi D., Lecture by... »» 00 «66 Sleeve fol aloe ofiogexe!steforasehehefotsies slalejeletsielstelerehs 207 ftarers: Prof. Wi: B.5Lectuies' by... <010 02% 2 000.0 afe/sfasiacvarerentere ale eotetene argu Gia. de 201 Royal Society, Co-operation with............06. nieleesyeneniatsieqcuestsielers ie» piephate Gioeehs 243 Royal Society, Publications Distributed by........... Assjal tietotelonbe ave ie elocnhcletere Bee 39 Royal Society, Papers presented to, by Smithson. .........00sescccccecvcass sleieieis’s 109 Royal Society, Remarks of President of............+© ao/oleyssaverdi elie) pal exereteterere a ete etek 109 Rules for Acceptance of Memoirs. ........+aevotey etal} s}eis sigedaxe Vole, sslefopsjaresielalaveletiete 156 Rules for Distribution of Smithsonian Publications... ...........0ecce ees stehockaiets 194 Rumford. Saunt, Mounderiof Royal Institntion, .'s..0s +01. ++, 00s, «si: cleleschs sorcieletets 234 Rush, Hon. .R., Letter to Hon. Jno. Forsyth, from....0...ccecrscesses adelesereteie WaLs 108 Russell, Jno., Agent.......... aie a nielosfersi 9a! vine/siq a/s/sessia erevesiaay © 95/915 Roheetotrehaotsta ts 51 PRUSSIA TIStIEIIETOMS IMs seins els'sic.e ¢ersj oie #e,0,0fersiebiele slolentckelsts sieisa loleletatie isi eb ohebatsraraete A] Sabine Colonel, Terrestrial Magnetism........... sig) g ae eejiare efele els leliclsieseiisohestastsleietets 213 Sabine Colonel, Correspondence with, on Meteorology. ........s0seeeeeeeees Sous 146 antiaro, Observatonygdteysis;sisieciaaselr ss 4seic 9 002 aia sish ates shares 41/4) 51 a <0 erat stele ens leat 203 mewool, Lecture, on, These cies cis v's ce 0 Suellen pV tie wedousy ala fainvoah a stepsratele crea cuore Gane 7 Science Applied to Agriculture, Lectures on.........eececeeeers Meckicts aiartokeotee tale 207 EEC METOL, As5, VICTOR Weye aia etecvas 5 sf ¢ s/o) 5) ofsiebchetele: disveuleyepater deve aceleehe Sicvales sirere en Oda ule Benaucrenort of the Seeretaryercjeres ea, «<r0)s, ¢s,. : «s.4«/<si0}+)9 4.6 shelotacyaciectelesa daeousieie 156 PCRRC LAL SINCDOILS Of: « pinieisr@ickicpipheniels 4 siesletsiaisiesteleiela'e 231,208, 185, 168, 156, 127, 125, 9 Seismometer, ordered for Lieut. Gilliss............000+ sjestehovetaetctafeyeys) ey shachexasatebsls 164 Serpents, Catalogue of, in Smithsonian Museum...........2+.00+5 sieteiachetesavel slot erst 19 Silman Prof. B., Jr.5 Lectures hyn sje ciels «ep sess,0 +, 0,22 0918 sy elles Rake le iohapeuc sve, daltedebhepatere 951 Sinimmanssrofyhs,, 1-5, Lectumehbivertatetervrercne cs, ciscevels a; oyoucb ie) Vase laste alos ovests (rete ounsiwre 251, 230 Stemincporti on the Secretary ys sees ateiieleraiaia cis) es's oe etoile) mianipieisteinmvere-aneiniie wie 231 Peper pesoia North: Ameri ca:.:issevesreopeterstaiact tals latseyelisvohalenjs ioleis iisyeis pois syepsieiaieleieieie 240
b Smt erot d.wuawrence, Iuectures yea ss clenels a cetele genie alsoe'e afe.e: anole werbhanecs bo 27

<<<Page: 270>>>

Smithson, Account of, by Richard Rush... ....seeseecesscsssece Sievenotatere Nereteeees mi thson,~Wedalliomwtsaciei ciel cteheistel ous le rs0 0s, ole teeleloloyelesteteVeresierelafosielererieteners 0b56¢C Smithson, Notice of, by Davies Gilbert......+ssceescseeccesserceces siewivntenteters Smithson), eRortrabotsdesiestiekles es cle ce ote isiercVeere Heese lee veteicte.ciniete soxctoteetehors Gociieis SSLCNSOM, » Vill MO Lekota wetchetotslers so: .cctyie veleie ee, oolerereveMMsichetelelotedeisversteo) slecistelepeseteteletets RIN LHSOMIAMCOOMUEIDULIONS eye's) « e-s.0ye'-0l'e) oe: e\ ai ai'anlei% ta osietatove testes ile lores Inia nl arteneteletaneret
Smithsonian Contributions, Distribution.of Vol. V0: 0.010.010 ase aiass view c/stonsieisls s
smuithsonianlmstitution, Act Establishing. « .\<ec.\elss eisefelsswivieeeplsivivwe © sie lesie sore
Smaithsomranylnsti tution, AdATESS+OMs «:+.0.+: « ciecietele etviotelopeloselahee reutalepvelpetalers stele tetelstetere
Smithsonian System of Exchanges.........sseeeseeeee ajasitte le ofoto fete soveleine ss olniahstces
Snell vProf., dilustration of Waive Motiowis, w+ s.5..c1:0 0000 0s Serer seis wslelisiere CravclonaeNshete
SoutheAmeriea, IMStitUtiONs s10...\0.«sreivec cieisleie/e aproieelsivice eiefare ean datdahavsicopsteretelstoteletets
PSPHMIR PEUISEUE UTI OLIS I yerote ream oyeteVanietotete Sorel «ete sterorackefets FHoSuHcsUaGG N40 Basu 3.48
Sparks, Jared, Report on Programme .......++.000Paonons Beat carrot stoves ctchcerorete
Special Committee on Distribution of Income, &c., appointed.........eeeeeeeeeee
Special Committee, Report.of +1. 11036 sere 0 ceioreieyevorofeieletan(olelefolele fereiein<fekemlol<'e slesxolshetaxs
Special meeting of the Board... ...escescecccece sfa isis olelee,ciele loler wls ie evlosels sisereheye
Spirit of the Age, Lecture on.....e.0.+6 SleapeVesoiesolnnens eoveieerietecioiots Seoun dar oaodé
Spooner, Dr. 8., Proposition respecting publication of Musée Frangais, &c........
Sprague, Isaac, Botanical Draughtsman..........+. o: oiaistsvelisctoieletesoict tes ccersLenenteteesteks 213 SSUILC THs war an VECINOIT ID Yieici 5 sie cavers’ elevs's bis wer eho bie clele/oyells Sleis/etstelsteyekaiaiaiolererslotereheters 172, 141 WIE.) Lisa Gr ssl OlSeIOM 4.5 ferere,c:cx ater savanencisieionenesolele e's sltidla Gisloveroleeaeiegehshonvelebeatasceletsts 203 Standard Meteorological Instruments. «2c. 6 eieiss oo cee cae csieeisciscice oe afe diate we ratetanete 222, 197 Srmmley siadian (Gallery, account Of». ..:010 ies os esiele-osiejs seein le nislvtosiolarelefelsteletae ove, 49,1242 Statement of Finances, end of year 1853 ........ setetectelalclelocieverore AORTIC Shelelelet clus 66 Stansbury, Captain, Report on Animals collected by.........ceceeccrecccssecs oe 220 Statistics of Diseases ....... SfofesiotaheYaros .ctorelercrotete ease oXotedsii-atotelslenistersiete nkeniotsieNete stetele 174 RLSM eNS, IACMR, Us rie ole tA tie ws Goss nso O\e ysis 0 Arigie o Nawhiemeleleinlormbelecordortckisieet 179, 163, 39 Stimpson, William, Marine Invertebrata of Grand Manan.............ceeceee 17 Strong, Professor, New Method of solving Cubic Equations, by ......... se aisiniete : 171 Subjects which may be embraced in the Reports.......seseeseeceerees o \siehave\siel ye 131 Dummer, (George WLecture: DY wis iveveta tore <ivvelerare foinicrese tole atafetereforaleistelelerie e/elolee!eteletereeteters yy Sweden, Institutions in .........s000. aneyenehets aiotekohatsetevcueysvechetetove re stie aus s/<\elchaiss fepenelode 40 Swedish Academy, Reports of ............ aydetetetekorersne bore chotens eke rele chrctersfecterste aialekatees 165 Switzerland, Institutions 11 <6: ae sisr0is‘cisieieresieleles © sleletelieicloclotefacisleisejsi*'elsiasieretete Soiehers 44 Wables‘of Precipitation.......0. 00:3 60s siclotenrololelel slekerofelefstotes te feteross\e «ej atiwiale Sissi orale 5 247 Tables to facilitate Meteorological Gaivalations SfololSoletefolelelevie} ics ore: oie) olcvofetshstaelenetens 242 Teachers’ Association Lectures... .. sfotsbolelstelstalverctafetolels/aiahs Selate sto soierolsctelohetsrestst Verses 27 Telegraph lines used for Meteorological Intelligence ........eceeeeeceeeeneeeees 176 wkerm perature yMalbles, -cheterelercs toleyeieleteyatchalete terelohoneteote oo addomodoeneadoooe Rateohcote 5a 247 Wendencies of .Modern Science, Lecture OM. ...'s ss s0seescccessssces Sond 0 H0o00.0 207 Werrestrial] Mapnetism <2. 2... see ee isliiel slelentede a/ors «0,0 00/0 le lejslanatefalolenyetets -232, 213, 204 Thermometers, by Bunten, Troughton & Simms..........ssesessecccerece shee teye ce 197 Third Report of the Secretary .........ccs.0ee0c0e adele seierelai aioe Apoce as S45 168 Thomas, Isaiah, Antiquarian Society founded by .........--scesecccescccsessees 219 Tides of the Ocean, and their Geological Relations, Lectures on......eeeeeeenees 207 Topographical Regions of State of New York. .....-s. e005 dis, eole eletapMegm bites 196 Tornado, Account of New Harmony.............see00 sie ievotomiets rdousboddoou bes 14 Toronto, Observatory at.........00 ‘jeyefevalan's «fa /ofe,oiele to, oietee toleerevelens sobacooug naga C 176 Torrey, Drs John, Batis Maritima. «006... 00s o,oeclekeleselambeeicetatereiaterteretelevetev 16 Torrey, Dr. John, Darlingtonia Californica........ s/oje\ ee ocos Syenboleieechtsyste¥elolaeicie miele 16 Torrey, Dr. John, Plante Fremontiane ....... shelelow tetance aietocicvetes avevelatsotate in s\cleletae 212
DEL shi
Sa 2

<<<Page: 271>>>

Page. Torrey, Dr. John, Plants referred to.......s.cecsscsectresscveseccers SSormocs a 297 Totten, General, Resolution on alteration of East Wing ..... Gh aboorgog Goa odc ae 18 TMRICHS Oa Bhexenenll (Sm eCiss 6 Saco Oe dOU 0h. de oO SUDO CD OG OREO COSUOOOCUBOLOD oi: 211 SM eASUT eT wlvep Onin Olmert yenelestal*) ocelect ofel=if-e1</eholelo'* l1c\e\o/aleieehelcicrs|e) 201.) a's) o's lssie\e/sieishers 73 Mreaisesouekanieular Sub) CCtss -\2) <ieloctslelerelecieieiclstcleleserclelelcelcleisie\sir eieies «sco 165, 1393131 ‘Thasigibine Wilactene aoe ooGdor debbie Obbor Ur ooCounOUraoOOOoS Meleisielosverete 213 BLUE PoOlicysOttHepIMStILULtIOM sc: 0 c1sie. » oc cieis's oles sleloe veiw slenieveciisss avopeteryoNei cotstovctore 234 Turkey, Institutions in ..........000. ah say allal/or oh ein vceaeveh ox etleleeitateloize 0) sis vou'ul<eisy slieliastavaye oieets 49 Turner, Professor W. W., Choctaw Grammar examined by ....--seeeseceseevees 241 Turner, Professor W. W., Dakota Grammar examined by.+...cseeecsseessccces 915 Turner, Professor W. W. Report on Squier & Davis .......-+.+0. evecia\ololeisetefefeleys 144 SY SOUs TOD. , LCCLULCSID Ys cise <gelti or oc w cleejelvicie one's sfalosiis belief sisueveterseieleiscerssenenetemm ee Olam Unity of the Plan of the Animal Creation, Lectures 0n.......0..eescesssevccsecs 207 Unverified Speculations excluded from the Contributions ............. cece ee eeeee 136 Value of Works received by Exchange........... eiaicleioclstspeteke 249 Mane Dieman siuand, MMstitutions iM). sc... 2. esc 0.0 occ. a6s s ceea o'ee eine ave sharcleh evel 49 Mania OTE Ot eV NICE st aie) c's eels) o1c%a)es)e oie «2010 0 6 ajo cioie.c o0,0/sielolesie/s)ojsi solelehaleleetetejenere 20 Wastnessiof the Visible Creation, Lectures On . cs o6.ccies osicie sees ccisclesiaiee cies sels 207 Vattemare, M., System of Exchange .......... sHaleclcversuolcchetoseuchecPereestopeenrets sisielereie 218 Mindication of vesearches and Memoirs ss 60/0. ss.o:0'0% 00:5 010 o's 910, sa.sresieiestevieiererele 237 Nirriton en AEs, MeCtUTeS! DY. « <iesiee'ce 0/0 0 o.00\sle'wrsvie ois shale voualasiofoyererstoustesratctevele 230 Walker, Hon. Robert J., Observations directed by .........e+0e045 wielowrekolaves sieletere 213 Nice ra SOUS: Ontcystaterccl Vokots\cr]siehate\cctioz eis (oeisisia) civ vi oie iis: obs ieat’s, ive /edjeislerkonieyele 244, 221, 169 Warren, Josiah, New Method of Stereotyping...... sieheiatesretsteistele Sissel e)elesieietel ote 225 WViatenssuanther Airs Mine IuECEUTES OMS «15; c\00\s <e.0.e\cie-e ¥ sercce e:8) 08,018 slejectoleyel atentets S80 251 West India Islands, Meteorological Observations from. ........ccceseceecesecece 176 WVibnithlesey, Charles... < .cie cesses eee wieiennotcieisie) efove.e) s/s) et e\eia) a! e.al el eh ofohssa¥ele sieyeroletete 236, 219 Wilkes, Com., Plants collected by Exploring Expedition under ................-. 16 DVAFOfe SIthHSOM <5 <s:2/6 ac;0 ised c0's 00 istslelsfoyo\e: 0:0: ake ieislol's.s visi srepyeteisel ote sicrstodevekeion stone 107 VedsTo fete INontherns Lemispheres.s.) <.s:00/00) «1+ !e/0b/o1siajeles.oie sisicleie ofeleten oye elsiseirehe 213 Wilson, Prof., of England, Models, &c., from...... syela\edtane sieie coke thevecrereve siseretenalete 76 Wilson, American Ornithologist, Letter to Michaux........ ai oleh oi hetVeloretsrele Sieiotetele 135 SY NAUITCLIN V/0I CS ler aperteratetatatctop ys Col sich Vers ieleis) s/eivleleje\sise:s ise oes ‘oreleceinia’s evele'els ors set cbalsloret a ctshere 198 AVVAISC OMS ianw AA DICUIELEST Oleereloresse) a soe. se'e!s: eres ic\ere.cleie-e\e.se,0\0 aie «i o\ajayete\aieis)s sioiele sees 220, 14 WV ASA wD Eom Crt RATT CH SLO LI. «5 /e)\o'cist sieie7i'01.0-s5 4) 00 jstele sere) #\ss:eae'ace vie @svsieys sicjeleroveote eletore 239 SU SMZCOUING Oise AMER OAUNOLER DY! 's.c1s:c10. 0.6 ovisieiere cic ¢ obs « seine visio viva sie swemere eee 212 Wotherspoon, Dr., Reduction of Meteorological Observations, by..........+e.00+ 197 Warighis@ harlessa Hxplorationse sie cree sis .si0\eis\ee os: esieie ssineicce's s o) siaj a arejersio\eletolelelepeicns 212, 177 aviyman, Dr. Jefies; Anatomyiol the Frog, by. «sic «see s.00:0 6 ae sie a sien e's sasliosionic 238 Wynn Estate, Communications respecting ........... sieielisie’sie, sie 0) euereis aieteleioues/syoeceiata 75 Wynn, Mr., account of Bequest of...... eraakoreeevenere eo siavavelsisievsie/elonsiettane s6enad 234 Young, Dr., Index to Natural Philosophy, by ...... Welsiotevesyaletexcieeisre Slee se a\sieler arte 225 Young Men’s Christian Association, Lectures............sel salarela\areiaioveteletorshsiersiene Qi Zoology, Promotion of, by the Institution ........ SCOR OD GOE sfevelsleielshelstclevayekesiay sheie 232
irasivtes,, 1 roosts Memoir ante aetrctia's sjetassicisis eie:0ls ee 5 ore s's,e\aisloisiviae,s sualeiiaiee lava 213

<<<Page: 272>>>



<<<Page: 273>>>



<<<Page: 274>>>



<<<Page: 275>>>

é PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD UP TO FEBRUARY 24, 1858.

<<<Page: 276>>>



<<<Page: 277>>>

33D CONGRESS, SENATE. Mis. Doc. 2Qd Session. No. 24.
The Ninth Annual Report of the Board of Regents of that Institution.
Marcu 1, 1855.—Read and ordered to be printed—motion to print 10,000 additional copies referred to Committee on Printing.
Marcu 2, 1855.—Ordered that 10,000 additional copies be printed, 2,500 of which be for the use of the Smithsonian Institution.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, February 28, 1855. Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit to the Senate of the United States, the Ninth Annual Report of the Operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary Smithsonian Institution. Hon. Jesse D. Bricnrt, President of the Senate.

<<<Page: 278>>>

O. Vans ‘
et SHOWING THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION UP TO JANUARY 1, 1855, AND
To the Senate and House of Representatives :
In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, submit to,Congress, as a Report of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution, the following documents :
1. The Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations of the Institution during the year 1854.
2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an account of the expenditures for the year 1854.
3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made in 1854 in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice.
4, Proceedings of the Board of Regents up to February 24, 1855.
5. Appendix.
Respectfully submitted. ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. FEBRUARY 28, 1855.

<<<Page: 279>>>

FRANKLIN PIERCE, Ex officio Presiding Ofer of the Institution. ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor of the Institution.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary.
W. W. SEATON, Treasurer.
WILLIAM J. RHEES, General Assistant.
JAMES A. PEARCE, \ Executive Committee.
Building Committee.
—+—~SY os
——_ —_—__, Vice President of the United States.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States.
JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the city of Washington.
JAMES A. PEARCE, member of the Senate of the United States. JAMES M. MASON, member of the Senate of the United States.
S. A. DOUGLAS, member of the Senate of the United States.
W. H. ENGLISH, member of the House of Representatives.
DAVID STUART, member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES MEACHAM, member of the House of Representatives. GIDEON HAWLEY, citizen of New York.
J. MACPHERSON BERRIEN, citizen of Georgia.
RICHARD RUSH, citizen of Pennsylvania.
ALEXANDER D. BACHE, member of the National Institute, Washington. JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, member of the National Institute, Washington.

<<<Page: 280>>>

FRANKLIN PIERCE, President of the United States.
, Vice President of the United States. WILLIAM L. MARCY, Secretary of State.
JAMES GUTHRIE, Secretary of the Treasury. JEFFERSON DAVIS, Secretary of War.
JAMES C. DOBBIN, Secretary of the Navy.
JAMES CAMPBELL, Postmaster General.
CALEB CUSHING, Attorney General.
ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. CHARLES MASON, Commissioner of Patents.
JOHN T. TOWERS, Mayor of the city of Washington

<<<Page: 281>>>

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :
GENTLEMEN: It again becomes my duty to present to your honorable Board the Annual Report of the present condition of the Smithsonian Institution, and of its operations during the year 1854.
In this report I shall follow the course adopted in the previous ones,, namely, to state such facts as may appear to be necessary to a connected history of the Institution, and to offer such suggestions as may seem important in reference to its future management.
At no period since the commencement of the Institution has it attracted more attention, or given rise to more discussion, than during the past year; but, thanks to the liberality of Congress, who ordered the printing of twenty thousand extra copies of the last report, to which were appended all the preceding reports of the secretary, together with sundry other documents, ample means have been afforded the reading public to become acquainted with the will of Smithson, his pursuits in life, with the law of Congress establishing the Institution, and with all the acts of the Regents in the discharge of their duty.
That the disposition of a bequest of so novel a character, the intention of which was so briefly though comprehensively expressed, should give rise to a diversity of opinion, or that the act of Congress in reference to it, which received repeated amendments, and was passed, after a discussion of several years, by a small majority, should be differently construed, is not surprising.
In the language of Mr. Adams: “A British subject, of noble birth and ample fortune, desiring to bequeath his estate to the purpose of increasing and diffusing knowledge throughout the whole community of civilized man, selected for the repository of his trust, with confidence unqualified, the United States of America. In the commission of every trust there is an implied tribute to the integrity and intelligence of the irustee ; there is, also, an implied call for the faithful exercise of those properties to the fulfilment of the purposes of the trust. The tribute and the call acquire additional force and energy when the trust is committed for performance after the decease of him by whom it is confided, and when he no longer exists to witness or constrain the effective fulfilment of his design. ‘The magnitude of the trust, and the extent of confidence bestowed in the committal of it, do but enlarge and aggravate the obligation which it carries with it. The weight of duty imposed 1s. in proportion to the honor conferred by confidence without reserve.”
‘The principal purpose of Mr. Smithson was, evidently, the discovery of new truths, the invention of new means for the enlargement of human power, and not the mere communication of knowledge already pos-

<<<Page: 282>>>

sessed. In this point of view the bequest assumes an interest of the highest order, peculiar to itself, most happily adapted to the character of our republican institutions, and destined, if administered in the spirit in which it was bestowed, to command the grateful acclamations of future ages.”’ No restriction is made as to any kind of knowledge ;_ but it is knowledge, the source of all human wisdom and beneficent power, which is to be increased and diffused; ‘‘ knowledge, which as far transcends the postulated lever of Archemides, as the universe transcends this speck of earth upon its face; knowledge, the attribute of Omnipotence, of which man alone, in the physical and material world, is permitted to participate.” Let not, then, any branch or department of human knowledge be excluded from its equitable share of this benefaction. Again, no nation, community, or class of men, is designated as the special recipient of this bounty; and it would be inconsistent with the self-respect of a great confederated nation to receive, from the hands of a foreigner, a liberal fund for the increase and diffusion of knowledge throughout the world of man, and to apply it exclusively to its own purposes.
The Regents, at their first session, conscious of the importance and magnitude of the trust confided to them, and of the responsibilities which devolved upon them, gave to the whole subject attentive and laborious consideration. ‘They were impressed with the fact that the object of the law was to carry out the will of Smithson, and if there were any doubtful points, it was their duty to construe them with a view to this object. In conformity with this a plan was adopted, which, while it fulfilled all the requirements of the law, was in strict accordance with a logical interpretation of the will of the donor. This plan, after seven years’ experience, has been found to realize all the hopes and anticipations which were entertained in regard to it by its most sanguine advocates; and, though it was adopted provisionally, to be changed or modified as circumstances might indicate, yet no essential alteration has been considered necessary by those best acquainted with its operations. It is true that it is not, perhaps, in all respects, the simplest plan which could have been designed for carrying out the will of the testator; and had the Regents been entirely unrestricted, they would probably have devoted a less portion of the income to local objects ; but, under all the conditions of the problem, it is believed that it was the best which could have been adopted to produce the desired result. And it may not be too much to say, that the present condition of the Institution, as to general reputation and financial prosperity, is much more favorable than experience in the management of public trusts would reasonably have led us to anticipate.
All the requirements of the act of Congress, in the opinion of the Regents, have been faithfully and fully observed. Liberal provision has been made for the accommodation of a library, a museum, and a gallery of art, with lecture rooms and a laboratory, in the construction of a building which has cost $300,000. A library has been commenced nd means devised for its continual extension, which will soon form the best special collection of valuable works pertaining to all branches of positive knowledge to be found in this* country. The books which it now contains, if estimated by the prices paid for those which have

<<<Page: 283>>>

been purchased, may be valued at not less than $40,000. A museum, the most complete of any in existence in several branches of the natural history of the North American continent, has been collected, which has been valued at $30,000. A valuable and extensive cabinet of apparatus, consisting of instruments of illustration and research, has been formed. A beginning has also been made of a gallery of art, consisting of a choice collection of specimens of engravings by the old masters.
Not only have the objects specified by Congress received due attention, but also by a series of active operations the influence of the Institution has been extended to almost every part of our own and foreign countries. The publications, the exchanges, and the researches which have been instituted and prosecuted by the Institution, have indissolubly connected the name of Smrruson with the progress of knowledge in our day.
In accomplishing these objects the funds have not been exhausted, nor have debts been incurred. On the contrary, by strict adherence to a well devised system of finance, not only does the fund originally bequeathed by Smrruson remain undiminished in the Treasury of the
United States, but there is now on hand nearly $140,000 of unex|
pended income to be added to the principal.
In other words, the funds and property are now estimated at double the amount of the original bequest.
The plan of increasing and diffusing knowledge by means of researches and publications is in strict accordance with the will of Smithson. It embraces as a leading feature the design of interesting the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the Institution, and of extending its influence as widely as possible. It supplies a want which has long been felt in this country, and offers a greater inducement to profound study by rendering the products of original research more available than any other plan heretofore proposed. Every one who makes a discovery in any department of knowledge must of necessity be somewhat in advance of the reading public, at least in the special branch to which his discovery pertains; and therefore the numbergof readers, and consequently of purchasers of a work giving an account of these discoveries will be comparatively small. ‘I have frequently congratulated myself,” says one of our collaborators, ‘upon living at a time when an Institution exists in our country which would publish discoveries and original investigations or positive additions to knowledge, without expense to the author. What would not poor Morton have done had he been able in this way to publish his researches, whereas his single work on Crania Americana was given to the world at the loss of several thousand dollars.”
The Institution does much more than ordinary societies in the way of stimulating research. It not only gives to the world with the stamp of its approval the various papers which constitute its contributions to knowledge, but in a large number of cases it furnishes materials and pecuniary means for carrying on the investigations. The aid which it affords in this way, though small in amount, is sufficient to determine whether an investigation shall be prosecuted to a successful termination or abandoned almost at its very commencement.
It was at first proposed to offer premiums for original memoirs on

<<<Page: 284>>>

different branches of knowledge ; but it has been found by experience that the inducements held out by the offer of publication free of expense under the sanction of the Institution, and the assistance which is. occasionally afforded, will produce more material of the first quality than will exhaust the small portion of the income which can be devoted to researches and publication.
In first proposing the system of literary exchanges which is now extended over every part of the civilized world, a promise was made to all the foreign societies which should send their transactions to the Smithsonian library that, on the part of the Institution, at least one quarto volume of original contributions to knowledge would annually be given in return. ‘The experience of seven years has rendered it evident that this promise can be fully redeemed. Indeed, were the funds. sufficient, two large volumes might be published in the same: time.
The seventh volume is nearly completed, and will be ready for distribution in the course of a few weeks. It will contain a number of memoirs, the largest of which are on the subject of American antiquities. An account of one of these, viz., that on the Effigy Mounds of Wisconsin, was given in the last report.
A number of memoirs have been examined and accepted for publication since the date of the last report. |
1. A paper hasbeen prepared at the special request of the Institution, byS. F. Haven, esq., librarian of the American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Massachusetts, which will form a part of the seventh volume.
Its intention is to give a retrospective view of the progress of knowledge and opinions relative to the whole subject of American antiquities. For this purpose the author has, in the first place, presented a summary of the opinions of early writers upon the question of the origin and sources of the native population of this country, and in this connexion has noticed some of the more prominent writers of later date who have sustained one or other of the ancient hypotheses.
In the second place he has considered the accounts of the early Spanish and French adventurers, and the reports of the Jesuit missionaries, who first became acquainted with the inhabitants in their native condition, so far as those accounts have a bearing on the origin and uses of the earth-works of this country.
In the third place he has sought to ascertain the names of the early explorers who examined and described any of these ancient remains, and to give the extent of their investigations.
He has next followed the succession of observations and speculations of different periods down to the present time ; and, lastly, he has given a concise resumé of the facts which have thus far been established.
These are, lst. The nature and extent of the aboriginal monuments in the United States east of the Rocky mountains ;
2d. Their location relatively to one another and to different portions of the country ;
3d. Their affinities to the works of existing or recently extinct tribes.
The memoir is intended to have a bibliographical character, so far as this could be effected without interrupting the continuity of the narrative. It will be found important, not only in pointing out what has

<<<Page: 285>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, i lf
been done and thought on this interesting subject, but also in indicating definite points of further research.
The preparation of this article has cost the author no small amount of labor. ‘The information was principally to be found in publications which, in their day, had but a limited circulation; and now, even, when known to exist, are not easily found. It may be interesting to mention that there have been several periods during which attention has been particularly directed to the aboriginal remains of this country, and between them intervals of time in which they excited comparatively no interest. Before the war ofthe revolution, investigations had been commenced, which were of course suspended or terminated by that event. After peace was restored and military stations were established in the interior, and settlements began to be extended beyond the Ohio, accounts of remarkable works were published in the miscellaneous periodicals of the day. The officers of the army were the principal explorers ; but two of the most active of these, General Parson and General Heart, were removed by death; and as the mounds became more familiar to the settlers, the interest in them comparatively declined. After the war of 1812, they again became the object of inquiry, which resulted in the publication of Mr. Atwater’s researches under the auspices of the American Antiquarian Society. Since then, though occasional articles appeared, no important additions were made to our knowledge in regard to them until the publication of the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions. The reputation acquired by this work has induced a number of other laborers to enter the field, which, we trust, will soon be fully explored. Indeed, it is believed that samples of nearly every variety of earth-work to be found within the limits of the territory of the United States, east of the Rocky mountains, have been figured in the publications of the Institution. It is intended, however, to continue to collect all the information which may be obtained, and in due time to publish: a map of the relative position of all the works which are found to exist, at least within the limits of the United States. e
The Institution from the first has given particular attention to antiquities, philology, and other branches of the new and interesting department of knowledge called ethnology, which relates to the natural history of man in his physical, moral, intellectual, and wsthetical characteristics. It is a common ground, in the cultivation of which lovers of literature and science are equally interested. The works we have thus far published on these subjects have elicited the highest commendations, and the Smithsonian Contributions are now generally referred to as containing important materials for their elucidation.
2. Some years ago an artist of considerable merit and great accuracy, Mr. Sawkins, visited the celebrated remains of ancient architecture at Mitla, in the State of Oajaca, Mexico. Mr. Sawkins made careful drawings of the ruins by means of a camera lucida, and recorded his observations upon the spot. Within afew months these drawings and memoranda have come into the possession of Mr. Brantz Mayer, of
Baltimore, whose writings upon Mexico and' its antiquities have been
very largely circulated in this country during the last six or seven years. Mr. Mayer considered Mr. Sawkins’s sketches and observations

<<<Page: 286>>>

he, NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
as of so much value to the aboriginal history of our continent, and especially in completing the links of civilization between North and South America, that ae prepared a brief memoir upon Zapotec remains, which the Institution has considered it advisable to publish with the drawings. We are happy to believe that this contribution will in some degree “supply a deficiency which has been often acknowledged in regard to remains on the western slopes of the Mexican Cordillera.
3. Another memoir presented to the Institution is on the Recent secular visitation of the Aurora Borealis, by Protessor Denison Olmsted, of Yale College. This paper partakes more largely of a hypothetical character han most of those which have been accepted for publication. The facts, however, which it contains are considered so important and so well deserving of permanent record, that they oatweigh this ob-
jection.
On the evening of the 27th of August, 1828, after a long absence of any striking appearances of the aurora borealis, there commenced a series of exhibitions which increased in frequency and magnificence for the six following years, arrived at a maximum during the years 1835,’6,"7, and after that period regularly declined in number and intensity until November, 1848, when, according to the author, the series appeared to come to a close. The occurrence, however, of three remarkable exhibitions of the aurora during September, 1851, and of another of the first class as late as February, 1852, indicate that the close was not as abrupt as was at first supposed, but still there was a diminution in the number of brilliant exhibitions after 1848. Professor Olmsted, in this memoir, gives the history of the foregoing series of auroras, which, 1 in his opinion, are the mostremarkable w ehh have ever occurred since the first recorded observations. ‘The author first refers the several varieties of the aurora to six different forms, viz: 1. Auroral light; 2. Arches; 3. Streamers; 4. Coronas; 5. Waves; 6. Auroral clouds; and afterwards distributes these different forms into four distinct classes. The first is characterized by the presence of three out of four of the most prominent varieties, viz: arches, streamers, coronas, and waves.
The second class is formed of a combination of two or more of the leading characteristics of the first class.
The third class consists of the presence of only one of the rarer characteristics, either streamers or an arch, or irregular coruscations.
Class fourth consists of the most ordinary form of the aurora, as mere northern twilight or a tew streamers.
From the year 1780 to 1827 striking exhibitions of the aurora were seldom obseived, although, probably, a greater or less number of the inferior descriptions of ‘hose of the third and fourth classes occurred every year in our own latitude, and a still greater number in the regions nearer the poles. But aged persons w ho witnessed the displays of 1827, 1835, 1836, and 1837, testify that they were similar to such as occurred in their youth from 1760 to 1781. Strange sights were described as having been seen in the air during the old French war, which closed in 1763. From 1781 none of equal intensity had occurred for nearly half a century 5 the a arch, therefore, and other striking accompaniments of the aurora of 1827 took us by surprise, and

<<<Page: 287>>>

were viewed with wonder by nearly all the existing generation. Immediately after this great aurora, exhibitions of the phenomenon became more frequent. From 1827 to 1848, 885 appearances of the aurora are given in the records referred to by the author. Of these, 12 were of the first class, 45 of the second, 161 of the third, and 667 of the fourth. ie,
The author places the middle of the period about 1837; and by subtracting from this 65 years, he arrives at the middle of another visitation. The duration of the period he considers to be a little more than 20 years. The middle of the next period of brilhancy, if this assumption be correct, will be about the beginning of the next century. Whatever may be the truth of this conclusion, the description of a large number of auroras which he has collected, given either trom the records of others or from his own observations, renders his communication valuable. He does not adopt the hypothesis of the electrical origin of this meteor, but considers it connected with the phenomena of the zodiacal light. The most conclusive proof, however, of the truth of the former hypothesis is found in the fact of the disturbance of the magnetic needle, when delicately suspended, durmg the appearance of the aurora, and the actual transmission of currents of electricity along the lines of telegraphs which extend in a north and south direction. The last fact has been reported separately to us by different individuals belonging to the Smithsonian corps of observers.
Though no complete explanation has been given of all the facts of the aurora, yet the most plausible hypothesis is that which attributes the phenomena to electricity generated principally in the torrid zone by evaporation. By this process the earth is rendered negative, and the vapor which ascends into the upper atmosphere highly positive. It is thence transferred towards the poles by the return trade winds, and descends to the earth to restore the equilibrium. A current of electricity is thus constantly passing from the poles to the equator during the appearance of the aurora; and hence, according to this view, the disturbance of the needle.
As an appendix to this paper, Peter Force, esq., of this city, has presented to the Institution an extended series of notices of the aurora collected from all the publications in which they occur, from about 1827 to the present year, arranged in order of time and of latitude. This will be a valuable contribution of facts towards a definite determination of the law and physical cause of these mysterious meteorological phenomena.
It would scarcely be complimentary to the general intelligence of the public of the United States, if I were again to attempt to vindicate the importance of investigations like that of the aurora; and it may be a sufficient answer to those who would question it, to say that they are such as particularly occupied the attention of Smithson himself, and that they must, consequently, be included as a part of that knowledge which it was the intention of his bequest to increase and diffuse among men.
4. The next paper is on the Tangencies of circles and spheres, by Major B. Alvord, of the United States army. It consists in the solution of a series of problems which have at different times exercised the ingenuity and skill of the geometer. It was referred separately for examination to Professor Lewis R. Gibbes, of Charleston, South

<<<Page: 288>>>

Carolina, and Professor A. E. Church, of West Point. In the language of one of the examiners: ‘The solutions of the problems relating te the circles, though not entirely original, are yet brought more directly to depend upon the fundamental principle of tangency as enunciated by the author, and are more elegant, thanthose given in any works with which I am acquainted. The paper also presents the only clear and complete explanation of the number of solutions and of the various positions of the tangent circles (and spheres) in each case that I have seen. I have not been able to find heretofore any complete solutions of all the problems relating to the sphere. Those of the author of the memoir are accurate, and easy to be understood by any person familiar with the elements of solid and descriptive geometry, and I think their publication will furnish a valuable addition to geometrical knowledge.’
It is a fact not without interest, that an officer of the army is enabled, while discharging his duty at a distant post of the frontier of our country, to concentrate his thoughts, and exercise his talents, on so abstruse a part of pure mathematics. The paper will be illustrated by three engraved plates in quarto.
5. A dictionary of the Chippewa language has been offered to the Smithsonian Institution for publication by the Rev. 8. A. Belcourt, a missionary among the Indians of British America. He has devoted 23 years to the study of this language. He urges its adoption by the Institution on the ground that in all probability this work, which, to use his own language, “has cost me so many years of labor and nights of thought, and which, in my humble opinion, will be valuable to science and philanthropy, especially to philology, will forever be lost; and who would undertake a work of such magnitude after learning the fate of this?”
The language of the Ojyibewas, according to the author, is the parent of all the dialects existing from the mouth of the St. Lawrence north and following the 27th parallel to the source of the Missouri. Were the present funds of the Institution sufficient for the purpose we should not hesitate to accept this work, and we are not entirely without hope that some means may be procured independent of the Institution to defray a considerable portion of the expense of its publication.
CorRRESPONDENCE.—During the past year the Institution has received a large number of communications asking information on a variety of subjects, particularly in regard to the solution of scientific questions, the names and characters of objects of natural history, and the analysis of soils, minerals, and other materials which pertain to the industrial resources of the country. Answers have in all cases been given to these inquiries, either directly by the officers of the Institution, or by reports from the Smithsonian colaborers. Very frequently certificates are requested as to the value of certain minerals, with a view to bring them into market ; but in these cases the inquirers are referred to certain reliable analytical chemists, who make a business of operations of this kind. The information procured and given at the expense of the Institution is such as relates to the general diffusion of knowledge, and not to that which may immediately tend to advance the pecuniary interest of individuals. Requests are often also made to have experiments instituted for testing proposed applications of science to the arts; and

<<<Page: 289>>>

provided these can be tried with the apparatus of the Institution, and the results which may flow from them are to be given to the public without the restriction of a patent, the request is granted. ° Expiorations, Researcues, &c.—(1.) About the beginning of the year 1853, Lieutenant D. N. Couch, U.S. A., communicated to the Smithsonian Institution a proposition to make at his own expense a scientific exploration in the States of Mexico, adjoining the lower Rio Grande. After this proposition was duly considered, and the details of the plan arranged, it was commended by me in a letter to the Secretary of War, and a request made that Lieutenant Couch might have leave of absence for the purpose of carrying out his design. The request was granted, and this young officer soon after embarked on his expedition. He was furnished with instructions and apparatus by the Institution, and his attention was especially directed to the existence in Mexico of a valuable collection of manuscripts and specimens in natural history, of which information had been communicated to us. He was requested to examine and report as to its character. He found the manuscripts to contain a large amount of historical and geographical intormation,
chiefly pertaining to the States of the old republic which lay between
the Sabine and Sierra Madre, and a series of maps and results of to-pographical and meteorological observations. The collections in natural history consisted of specimens in botany, zoology, mineralogy, &c.
These collections were made by Luis Berlandier, a native of Switzerland, and a member of the Academy of Geneva. He came to Mexico in 1826, for the purpose of making a scientific examination of that country. Soon after his arrival he was appointed one of the Boundary Commission organized by the then new republic, with the object of defining the boundaries, extent, resources, &c., &c., of the northern or frontier States. This position gave him unusual facilities for observation and investigation relative to the character of the country, and for making collections of its natural history. He, however, never returned to his native country, but married and settled in Mexico, and continued his researches until the period of his death in 1851. Lieutenant Couch purchased the whole collection from the widow of the deceased, and transmitted it immediately to the Institution, which bore the expense of transportation. It contains matter which would be valuable to the general government, and which it is hoped will be purchased, and a sufficient sum paid to reimburse the cost of procuring it. In the appendix will be found a catalogue of the manuscripts.
Lieutenant Couch himself collected a large number of specimens in natural history, which were presented to the Institution, and have already been examined and described. Among the specimens of mineralogy is a remarkable meteorite, weighing upwards of 250 pounds, portions of which have been analyzed by Protessor J. Lawrence Smith, in our laboratory, and by Dr. Genth, in Philadelphia.
The scientific explorations in natural history, made under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution during 1854, were those of Dr. Hoy, Mr. Barry, and Professor Baird. That of Dr. Hay was made in western Missouri and Kansas, and occupied about a month ; during which he gathered together large collections of North American vertebrata,

<<<Page: 290>>>

and forwarded them to the Institution... Mr. Barry took northern Wisconsin for the field of his labors, and spent several months in traversing the State, penetrating into various regions scarcely visited before by the white man. Several lakes and séreatae: not on the map, were discovered, and named by him. His most important results consisted in very full series of fishes from many localities. Professor Baird spent six weeks on the coast of New Jersey, at Beesley’ s Point, collecting specimens, and studying the habits of the marine fishes of the neighborhood. Thence he proceeded to several places on Long Island, especially to Greenport and Riverhead ; and afterwards made ‘explorations at various points on and near the Hudson river, as far north as Sing Sing. Full series of fishes and crustacea were procured at all ‘hese places, and sent to the Smithsonian Institution.
(2.) Terrestrial Magnetism—The observatory established at the ) joint expense of the Coast § Survey and the Institution, described in the
ast report, for determining the changes in the different elements of the
magnetic force, has not yet been ft fully supplied with all the necessary instruments. ‘This has been occasioned by the illness of Mr. Brooks, of
~ England, the inventor, who has not been able to furnish the apparatus
for recording the variations in the dip and intensity. The only part of the system which has been in partial operation, is that of the variation or declination instrument ; and in this, the glass cylinder which supports the sensitive paper, and which is needed to render the record more perfect, is wanting.
An attempt was made to supply this deficiency by means of a copper cylinder, coated with gold by the electrotype process. It was found, however, that the porosity of the gold allowed the acid to act upon the copper below, and thus to produce stains upon the paper. _ It is hoped this observatory will be fully equipped in the course of the present spring, and that a continued record will hereafter be kept up.
It was mentioned in the last report, that a set of instruments had been furnished the Grinnell expedition under command of Dr. Kane. No intelligence, however, has yet been received from this expedition ; but should our most anxious hopes be realized in reference to this enterprise, we doubt not a series of results will be obtained which will well repay the costof the instruments. If not, the Institution should receive some degree of commendation for aiding in ran undertaking which reflects so much honor on the intelligence and liberality of one of our citizens, and the gallantry and enterprise of a young officer of our navy.
Four complete sets of instruments have been constructed in London for the Institution ; three of these have been purchased by the general government, and have been employed in the different surveying expeFitouts: The fourth has been lent, in succession, to different individu als, for the purpose of accumulating magnetic observations in different parts of the United States.
A simple instrument for determining the minute changes in the direction of the magnetic needle, devised by Mr. J. E. Hilgar id of the United States Coast Survey, is now in the process of construction, under the direction of this Institution, for the Academy of Natural Sciences, California. The cost of this instrument is defrayed by the liberality of the President of the Academy, Dr. A. Randall.

<<<Page: 291>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ly
Observations continued for a certain time at different periods along the coast of the Pacific, and compared with the photographic records obtained by the apparatus in thas Institution, would afford interesting results as to the simultaneous perturbations of the magnetic force at distant places on the same continent.
Under the head of magnetism, it may be mentioned that a complete set of apparatus has been obtained from Ruhmkorff, of Paris, for exhibiting the facts of the new branch of science called dia-magnetism. A few years ago, but four metals were known to possess magnetic properties, namely, iron, nickel, cobalt, and manganese. It 1s now known that all bodies exhibit analogous phenomena when placed under the inductive influence of powerful magnets ; but they are not all similarly affecced. All bodies may, however, be divided into two classes : one in which polarity is developed at the extremities of a bar of the substance, as in the case of iron, and hence called simple magnetie bodies; and the other class, in which the polarity is transverse to the length of the bar, and the substance is hence called dia-magnetie. The simple repetition of these experiments in this country 1s of importance, and the apparatus may serve as a model for imitation to our ingenious artists.
(3.) On the 26th of last May, the central track of an annular eclipse passed over the northern part of the United States. The eclipse itself was visible over almost the entire area of the North American continent; and as no obscuration of the sun of equal magnitude would again occur in this country until 1865, it was important that all the facilities possible should be afforded for observing its different epochs and phases, as well as the concurring phenomena. For this purpose, in conjunction with the superintendent of the Nautical Almanac, a large map, exhibiting the times of beginning and ending, and the amount of obscuration and phases of the eclipse for every part of the United States, Canada, and Mexico, together with tables and explanations, were prepared and distributed to all the observers in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution. A set of minute instructions, published under the direction of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, was also presented to the same persons. Unfortunately, the weather proved cloudy over a considerable portion of the space covered by the central part of the shadow, though a number of interesting observations were made. The expense of the map and tables were defrayed jointly by this Institution and by the appropriation for the Nautical Almanac.
The results of the observations, so far as they have been reported, have been published in the Astronomical Journal, edited by Dr. B. A. Gould, jr., Cambridge, Massachusetts. They are illustrated by photographic impressions of the sun, made under the direction of Professor Bartlett, at West Point, and also by others, made under the direction of Professor 8. Alexander, of Princeton, New Jersey. The expense of these was borne by the Instituticn, for which full credit has been given.
I may mention in this connexion that Professor Coffin, of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, has presented to the Smithsonian Collections an mteresting map, on which are delineated the paths or central tracks of all the great solar eclipses of the nineteeath century which traverse the
Mis. Doc. 24 2 ‘

<<<Page: 292>>>

United States. These are nine in number. Seven of them have passed; the first of the remaining two will occur in October, 1865, and the other in August, 1869.
There are but two journals exclusively devoted to astronomy now in existence. The first is published at the expense of the King of Denmark, and the second in Cambridge, Massachusetts, by Dr. B. A. Gould, jr. The latter is intended to give the earliest intelligence of astronomical discoveries—particularly those made in our own country. At the last meeting of the British Association, the president commended this publication, and expressed a wish that it might be continued. I regret, however, to say that though no branch of science is cultivated with more ardor and success at the present time in the United States than astronomy, yet this work, so essential to its continued progress, is very inadequately sustained. Not only the labor of conducting it has devolved upon the editor, but also a considerable portion of the expense of its publication. The Smithsonian Institution has, from the first, subscribed for a number of copies, to be distributed among its foreign correspondents, and, rather than suffer so meritorious a work, which does so much service to the cause of science and credit to our country, to be discontinued, it might be well to enlarge the subscription. It is to be hoped that, in due time, donations and bequests will be made by liberal individuals for the support of scientific enterprises of this character.
It is gratifying to learn that $10,000 of the Appleton bequest have been devoted to the publications of the American Academy, and an equal sum to those of the Historical Society of Massachusetts ; and we may venture to ask whether there are not, in this country, wealthy individuals who can properly appreciate the importance of the labors of Dr. Gould, and establish his journal on a permanent foundation.
(4.) The laboratory of the Institution, during the past year, has been used by Professor J. Lawrence Smith in the examination of American minerals ; and, on behalf of the Treasury Department, in investigations relative to the different kinds of molasses imported into this country. He also made a series of analyses of meteorites, among which were fourteen specimens belonging to the cabinet of James Smithson, the founder of this Institution.
An extensive series of experiments have been made during the last year, and are still in progress at the Institution, under the direction of a commission appointed by the Secretary of War, consisting of General Totten, Professor Bache, and myself, for testing the materials employed in the extension of the capitol. For the purpose of these investigations, we have employed the beautiful and ingenious machine invented by Major Wade, late of the United States army, which is so contrived as to give in pounds per square inch of the material, the resistance to crushing, to twisting, and to longitudinal and transverse fracture. The materials have been selected and prepared under the direction of Captain Meigs, superintendent of the capitol extension; and the details of the manipulations and calculations have been entrusted to Mr. William Shippen.
T'he commission has taken advantage of this opportunity to extend the experiments to a number and variety of other building materials

<<<Page: 293>>>

submitted to them from different parts of the United States ; and they hope to be allowed to extend their inquiries until they also embrace the comparative strength of the most important articles used in the arts. For example, it is of great practical importance to know the relative and absolute strength of cordage, and the various textile fabrics manufactured by different processes from the raw materials produced in different countries. No complete series of experiments has ever been made upon the strength of the varieties of American timber. Enquiries, however, of this kind involve much labor and considerable expense, and can only be properly carried on by the aid of the government
(5.) Meteorology.—During the past year valuable additions have continued to be made to our meteorological collections. Though changes have taken place in the individuals, the number of the observers reporting immediately to the Institution is about the same as that given in the last report. A considerable number of full sets of standard instruments, made under our direction by Mr. James Green, of New York city,* have been procured by observers, and the character of the meteorological returns has consequently continued gradually to improve in completeness and precision. ‘The records we have collected now form a copious store of valuable materials for the solution of many interesting problems relative to the meteorology of this country, which have been resorted to by several original investigators for data necessary to their researches. But to render these materials more generally available for the advancement of science, it is desirable to reduce them to tabular forms, and to publish them in as much detail as our funds will allow. In this way the greatest number of persons will have an opportunity of submitting them to the inductive process, by which general laws are deduced from particular facts. There is no part of physical science in which so much is to be done, even in the way of partial generalization, as in meteorology; and hence the importance of engaging as many minds as possible in its investigation.
It is the policy of the Institution to furnish all the means in its possession to aid scientific research, and not to hoard up its treasures or confine their use to those who may be immediately connected with the establishment, or who may be supported by its funds. Co-operation, and not monopoly, is the motto which indicates the spirit of the Smithsonian operations. Itis with this view that I have been anxious to have the materials in our possession reduced to a form for publication ; and, indeed, it has been a source of much solicitude that we have not been able before this time to present to the observers the means by which they could compare the results of their records with those of others in different districts. Few persons, however, are aware of the labor, chiefly of a mechanical character, required to tabulate materials of this kind, and the cost of printing them in sufficient fullness of detail to render them generally applicable to scientific or economical purposes. Besides this,
So ee EET |S Beh Bie Ae
fa a val! pacha anedl ee oh Eyl ee BUR CHAS C ryote .ctorbio,erefes'eve,eis,« ae 529 Sule boococduGacadbor sell sverstorsis|steloredale 920 Donation and exchange..... 920'| 2,397 1} 323 Joes cies iL Si veretora 3,642 Copyright .........0. wes edal, AAT) Y O03"). eG y is 28s) B48 5| 69| 1,610 IMG MOBI ee fara Cchare cpevareiceretenctevs|loys/evejstacois|tolatetete sia| steele elele everaleve| sles «jin; 848 6 69 6,172
If we add these to the number given in the report of the librarian last year, we shall have the following—
Aggregate to 1855.
Sole :
a3 . 3
is a ep n S ; 2K a= : Sp a Total.
n a2 3 a aS) iss I
8 | fe) S/F) 2) 8/2
cae | ea NR |e Ee Purehase;.jc'e\<\stesis7s,siebarse sie) AS96125 902i E330 2) |store hu cletsiaexa’st see ee} 9,200
Donation and exchange..... 4,821 | 7,561 99412, 136, |oeseee ) OL 41 | 14,649 Gh ny iiitaederin DCHO ME CCECOn 3,250 623 54 87 |3,122 14. 166 7,316 Deposit.....Beeiehaiciatve(selcis T3 |. ccccovelaseccrlecccselecevcclcccessccccs 873 Mo tall ere esti. eoeeee-| 13,905 | 11,086 |1,448 |2,225 .) The principal object of the Smithsonian collection of specimens is to present a full illustration of the natural history of North America. ‘The income is not sufficient to collect and support a miscellaneous museum to illustrate all the branches of the physical geography of the globe. Such an establishment can only be sustained by the general government. Were the Institution to embrace all the opportunities which are afforded it to collect specimens, the cost of transportation alone would soon absorb the greater portion of the sum which can be devoted to this branch of the general plan of operations. We are, therefore, obliged to limit our exertions, and to direct them to objects which are more immediately necessary 1n facilitating certain definite lines of research, and to leave to other institutions the collection of such materials as may be required to make up the complement of specimens necessary to represent the mineral and organic products of our continent.
During the last year, the additions to the museum have been more numerous and valuable than in any previous period of the same extent. Much has been done by parties aided more or less by the Institution, and much by persons in an individual and independent capacity.
The Institution has taken charge of the arrangement and _preserservation of all the specimens obtained by the various expeditions of the government; but, as these embrace all objects of natural history, they would scarcely fall within the plan of a special museum. The principal aim, therefore, in taking charge of all the specimens is not to swell the Smithsonian epilecten, but to preserve them from destruction, and to render them immediately available to science, with the hope that Congress will, at some future day, make a liberal appropriation to support a national collection, of which these will form the nucleus.
In order to carry out the general policy of the Institution, a liberal distribution of the duplicate specimens should be made to societies and other establishments in this country and abroad. During the past year something has been done in this line; and when the collections are properly arranged, and the number of duplicates ascertained, the system of distr®ution m: ay be so extended as materially to affect the progress of natural history in this country and the world. But the amount of good which may be done in this way must again be limited by the portion of the income which can be expended for this purpose ; due regard being had to the claims of all branches of knowledge, of which this is but one.
The primary object of the establishment being kept constantly in view, the specimens in all cases will be open to the use of individuals who may desire to increase knowledge by original research; aud the only condition which will be required to be strictly observed is that full credit be given to the Institution for the facilities which it may afford.
No branch of the operations of the Institution can be carried on without the expenditure of a greater amount of labor than might, at first sight, appear to be necessary. Some idea of that required to attend to the specimens added to the museum may be obtained from the fact that over 360 different lots, consisting of barrels, kegs, cans, boxes,

<<<Page: 294>>>

&c., besides many single specimens, have been received during the last year. All these had to be assorted, labelled, and recorded in books, and in most instances duplicate lists sent to the donors. In the case of smaller animals, large numbers of extra specimens are generally collected, to serve for anatomical investigation, or for distribution and exchange.
(2.) Achromatic Microscope-—In the first report of the Secretary it was mentioned that an individual, in the interior of the State of New York, had successfully devoted himself to the study and construction of the microscope, and was able to produce specimens of this instrument which would compete with the best of those constructed in Europe; and that, to do justice to the talents and labor of this person, Mr. Spencer had been requested to construct a microscope of the first quality, to be paid for by the Institution, if a commission appointed to examine it should find it capable of producing certain effects. The artist made a number of instruments which fully satisfied the conditions required by the agreement, but which still fell short of the ideal standard of perfection which existed in his own mind.
He has, however, at length completed a microscope, the performance of which far exceeds that which was anticipated when the proposition was made; and the Institution has thus not only secured a valuable instrument of research, but has assisted in developing the talents and making more generally known the skill of a native artist of surpassing merit. I may mention that Mr. Spencer has associated with himself Professor Eaton, of Troy, New York; and they are now able to supply the increasing demand in this country for this invaluable means of research which, within the last few years, has opened a new world to the physiologist and botanist, as well as to the investigator of morganic matter.
(3.) Gallery of Art.—The Stanley collection of Indian portraits still remains deposited in the west wing of the building. They were removed, however, for a short time for exhibition at the Maryland Institute, Baltimore, and the State Agricultural Fair at Richmond, Virginia. They have constantly excited much interest, and it will be a subject of great regret if means cannot be procured to preserve entire a scries of portraits which has been produced at so much labor and cost, and which is so faithful a representation of the peculiar physiognomy and costume of the different tribes of Indians now found within the boundaries of the territories of the United States. Mr. Stanley was engaged as the artist of the Pacific railroad survey under Governor Stevens, and has thus had an opportunity of adding much to his material for enlarging the collection. Since it was first deposited in the Institution he has also added to it portraits of several individuals belonging to the Indian delegations which, within the last two years, have visited Washington.
(4.) Professor Wilson, of the British Commission, appointed to attend the Exhibition at the New York Crystal Palace, presented to the Institution, in behalf of the London Society of Arts, a collection of models, drawings and instruments, to facilitate instruction in the art of design. In order to render these immediately useful, they were lent to the School of Design, which has been established in this city by the Metropolitan

<<<Page: 295>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ya
Mechanics’ Institute, under the charge of Professor Whitaker ; and they are still in possession of this society, and are not only valuable on account of the immediate use to which they are applied, but also in serving as patterns for imitation for other schools of a similar character.
The Institution possesses, as has been stated in a previous report, a valuable collection of engravings by the first masters; but these have, from the first, been deposited in drawers, and have therefore not been accessible to the general visitor. It may be well, if the expense is not too great, to have them placed in groups, under glass, in large frames, and thus exhibited to all.
Buirpinc.—The main building of the Smithsonian Institution is at length completed. During the last six years, the wings, the connecting ranges, and the apartments in the southern tower, have alone been occupied. The unfinished condition of the edifice has undoubtedly produced an unfavorable impression on the numerous strangers who visit the city of Washington. The object, however, of the delay, as has been repeatedly stated in previous reports, was, first, that a more permanent building, and one better adapted to the uses of the Tnstitution, might be provided; and secondly, that funds might be saved from the accruing interest to furnish an additional income sufficient at least to defray the annual expense of so large and costly an edifice. Both these objects have been attained. The interior of the building, instead of being constructed of wood and plaster, as was originally intended, has been finished with fire-proof materials; and improvements have been made in the plan first adopted which render the edifice better suited to the purposes for which it was intended. ‘The first story consists of one room 200 feet long and 50 feet wide, which can be divided by a screen into two apartments, one of which may be devoted to the library and the other to the museum. ‘The second story is divided into three spaces, the middle one of which is occupied by the great lecture room, capable of containing 2,000 persons, and constructed on acoustic and optical principles. It is believed that this room is the most perfect of its kind in this country, and that it will serve as a model for apartments ofa similar character. The spaces adjoining the lecture room east and west form rooms each fifty feet square, which may contain cases around the walls for apparatus and other collections of objects of art, and at the same time serve for meetings of societies or for lectures to smaller audiences on special subjects. On the north side of the lecture room, in the front towers, are rooms intended for the preparation of the experimental illustrations of lectures, but which may be used as committee rooms, while the large lecture room serves for the more public addresses and exhibitions.
The object kept in view in all the changes which have been made in the original design of the building is its adaptation to purposes of general interest, and particularly to the accommodation of conventions and associations intended to promote knowledge or improve the arts of life.
During the past year.a number of societies have availed themselves of the facilities aflorded by the Institution, and have held their sessions in the Smithsonian building. The first was the United States Agricultural Society, which continued its session for three days, with lectures

<<<Page: 296>>>

in the evening. It was attended by delegates from almost every part of the United States, and has published a ‘journal of its proceedings, in which due credit is given to the Institution.
The second was the American Association for the Advancement of Science, which met the last of April and continued in session until about the 10th of May. Special preparation was made for this association; and although the building was still in an unfinished state, it is believed the members were well satisfied with their accommodation, as well as the hospitality and attention they received from the President and officers of the general government.
The third was the Association of Medical Superintendents of Hospitals for the Insane, which continued in session several days. ‘The subjects discussed were not only of much importance relative to the treatment of diseases of the mind, but also of interest to the psychologist. Some, too, were of a practical character, connected with the general economy and management of public institutions. The subjects of heating and ventilating were fully discussed.
“The fourth was ‘hie meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Education, w hich has just closed its session. ‘The Smithsonian Institution is thus assisting to render the city of Washington a centre of literary and scientific association, which may serve to diversify its character as the political metropolis of the nation.
Lectroures.—In confor mity with the law of Congress, a series of lectures was given during the winter of 1853-4, and the experiment was made of establishing a full course on a single subject, namely, of chemistry‘This was given by Dr. J. Lawrence Smith, late of the University of Virginia, vee now professor of chemistry in the Louisville Medical College. The interest in all the lectures was fully sustained until the last.
A number of lectures were also given before the Mechanic’s Institute and the Young Men’s Christian Association in the Smithsonian lecture room.
The following is a list of the lectures given, with the names of the gentlemen by whom they were delivered.
A course of three lectures by Benjamin Hallowell, of Alexandria, Virginia.
Ist. The general principles of astronomy, with the movements and consequent phenomena of the bodies of the solar system.
2d lecture. The sun, Neptune, the asteroids, and comets.
dd lecture. Fixed stars, nebule, and stellar systems.
A course of three lectures by Professor C. W. Hackley, of Columbia College, New York. Subject : History of institutions of learning and science.
A course of two lectures by W. Gilmore Simms, esq., of Charleston, South Carolina. Subject: The moral character of Hamlet. Also two lectures for the Young Men’s Christian Association, on poetry and the practical.
One lecture by Professor W. J. Whitaker, of Massachusetts. Subject: Method of teaching the art of design.
A course of three lectures by Park Benjamin, of New York. Sub

<<<Page: 297>>>

jects: Ist. Fashion; 2d. Americanisms; 3d. Intellectual and social amusements.
One lecture by W. G. Dix, of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Subject : The Andes and Ecuador.
A course of twenty-two lectures by Professor J. Lawrence Smith, of the University of Virginia.
Ist. The importance of the study of chemistry, and its close connexion with the progress of the arts and manufactures of the present age; also general notice of the nature of bodies, more especially gaseous bodies.
2d. The elements of the atmosphere: oxygen, nitrogen, and ozone, or oxygen in its allotropic condition.
3d. The physical properties of the atmosphere: its weight, color, elasticity, &c.
4th. The compounds of nitrogen and oxygen.
5th. Sulphur and some of its compounds.
6th. Sulphuric acid and its-applications. Phosphorus and phos-
horic acid.
7th. Chlorine, its applications in the arts and its combination with oxygen. Iodine and its uses, with a notice of its application in the photographic art.
8th. Some of the compounds of chlorine and iodine, bromine, hydrogen, and its application to cronautics.
9th. Compounds of oxygen and hydrogen; the oxyhydrogen blowpipe and the Drummond light; water in several of its relations.
10th. Combinations of hydrogen with nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, and chlorine.
Jith. Carbon under its various forms of diamond, charcoal, and mineral coal; the combinations of carbon and oxygen.
12th. The agency of carbonic acid in forming incrustations of carbonate of lime; the respiration of plants and animals; the formation of coal-beds and the composition of coals; carbonic oxide and some of the compounds of carbon.
13th. Compounds of carbon and hydrogen ; explosions in coal mines; Sir Humphrey Davy’s lamp; combustion.
14th. Ga the phenomena of combustion and ebullition.
15th. On the phenomena of illumination, with an exhibition of every variety of illumination, from a candle to the electric light.
16th. On the phenomena of illumination, with illustration of every form of artificial illumination ; an account of the construction and principle of the Fresnel light used in light-houses.
17th. On the ebullition and congelation of water, with a short account of the application of the vapor of water as a motive power. 18th. The conversion of water into steam; its application as a motive power, with some remarks on the explosion of boilers 3 an account of some of the vapors and gases proposed as substitutes for steam as motive power.
19th. General properties of the metals; potash and soda, with an account of their applications to the arts of glass and soap making, &c.
20th. On the compounds of lime, alumina, and silica, with their applications.

<<<Page: 298>>>

30 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF i
21st. On some of the properties of gold, silver, mercury, and lead, with the manner of their occurrence in nature.
22d. On the properties of copper and iron, with the manner of their occurrence in nature ; on meteoric iron and meteorites.
From the foregoing account of the transactions of the past year, it must be evident to every intelligent and unprejudiced person that the Institution bas perseveringly continued its course of usefulness, and that, although some of its operations are not of a character to attract public attention or elicit popular :pplause, yet they are eminently productive of the benevolent results intended by the bestower of the bequest. From the report of the Executive Committee, it will be seen that the funds are still in a good condition; although. on account of unforeseen difficulties in the completion of the building, and of the unexpected rise in the price of labor and material, a larger draft has been made upon the extra fund than was intended. This can be made up, however, if thought necessary, in the course of a few years, by means of the interest which will accrue from the same fund.
It is evident that the collections of books and specimens have increased as rapidly as is consistent with the best interests of the Institution. Every addition to these collections increases the cost of attendance and supervision, and therefore must, with a fixed income, tend to diminish the power of acquisition; and when it is recollected that the Institution is, theoretically at least, to be perpetual, it will be evident that we should be more solicitous in regard to the quality of articles than to their number or quantity. ‘Though these views may not commend themselves to all, I believe they will be found to meet the approval of a large majority of the intelligent community.
In order to preserve the continuity of the history of the Institution in the annual reports of the secretary, it is necessary to allude to the fact that during the past year internal difficulties and changes have occurred which have given rise to a series of attacks on the policy and management of the Institution ; but however painful occurrences of this kind may be to those immediately concerned, yet they seem almost inevitable in the first organization of an establishment where precedence is wanting, aud where experience furnishes no instruction. They had their origin in the want of a definite recognition of the responsibilities and consequently of the powers of the secretary.
It is evident there can be no efficient action in an Institution of this character without entire harmony of views and unity of purpose, and these can only be secured by one executive head. ‘The Regents have settled this principle, and thus removed all cause of future difficulty of a similar character.
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Smithsonan Institution.

<<<Page: 299>>>

Str: I beg leave to present herewith a report for the year 1854 of operations in such departments of the Smithsonian Institution as have been particularly entrusted by you to my care.
Respectfully submitted, SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary. To JoserH Henry, L.L. D.,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. J. PUBLICATIONS.
The sixth volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, although for the most part printed in 1853, was not published and distributed until the present year. The seventh volume, to consist mainly of Lapham’s Memoir on the Ancient Remains of Wisconsin, is in hand, though delayed somewhat by the failure of the contractor to supply paper. The plates, over sixty in number, are nearly all lithographed and printed, and the numerous wood-cuts engraved. ‘The paper, by Professor Bailey, on new microscopic organisms, with one steel plate, has been printed and distributed to. microscopists in advance of its appearance in the full volume.
The octayo publications during the year are as follows:
Eighth annual report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, pp. 310.
On the construction of catalogues of libraries, and of a general catalogue. Second edition, pp. 96.
Directions for collecting, preserving, and transporting specimens of natural history, prepared for the use of the Smithsonian Institution. Second edition, pp. 28.
List or foreign institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution, pp. 20.
List of domestic institutions in correspondence with the Smithsonian Institution, pp. 16.
a—FOREIGN EXCHANGES.
The following table exhibits the statistics of the sixth transmission of packages to Europe, made by the Institution in June, 1854.
‘The circular issued by the Institution early in the spring, offering its services to the scientific societies of the country, in the transmission of packages to Europe, was eagerly responded to by a large number. The rales requiring that all parcels be delivered free of cost in Washington, that each ove be legibly addressed with the name of the donor, and that a separate invoice be sent by mail, or apart from the packages, were pretty generally complied with. It is to be regretted, how

<<<Page: 300>>>

ever, that the last named regulation was not observed in some instances, thus greatly increasing the labor of the officers in charge, by rendering it necessary to make a transcript of the titles from the bundles themselves.
Such publications a& were sent without specific addresses were distributed as appropriately as the information in possession of the Institution allowed.
The boxes containing the packages enumerated in the list, left the Institution towards the end of June, and, having been shipped by packet, did not reach their European ports until some time in September. They were immediately unpacked by the agents of the Institution, and the parcels distributed, with the accompanying circulars, to their respective addresses. Acknowledgments for many of them have already been received.
A.—TABLE SHOWING THE AMOUNT OF PRINTED MATTER SENT ABROAD IN 1854 By THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
1. Distributed by Dr. J. G. Fliigel, Letpsic.
-* } ! as} = a= =| Sul & © . 3 oa ®o % ; ort ie Q &p n = w TD om ee 2 o Se Sa et Seek] Seer ea ee g cee (eT BT aE aa | Meher [eae Peed 3 3 On | Po as} Gp eas Sh eh am ro COUNTRIES. phate ele fei patel a Roz ae li a Se S Se: ae! a mB ©) 1D 3 oo a 3 ie ate 2 o ° os eax ae ° fe} = os og ee. Aa) | og Be os = ep 2 Sear |p eet om 3 S ry Oe MO a a a 5 S| = = euehet ESN 3 Nee = 2 = 3 oe S 5 3 ed = = > < < lee aria hfe fo Z | : Sweden.t's:..0/..s Srotsiapawarertie:t 8 19S eee 15 4] SD a Borreic ° Wes sia teh Bc Norway... 0%: sieitevels (sieie 3 elections 5 13 | Ste lare Sas le seees Wisc Teeland . 0. see 'ee a Ee Sere BES Sc lBroveneye 2) LU nletotelaretal atole olieye boo Ac Denmark Weis apos0 sets eveleie vole 4 10 erscsscial 95) BB jel ahs ie Back ae \autcrerate Geers RUSSIA vic ot 20s: irate seetmes Sie 16 Gaile, veleveie 29 | (fete imme) Ihsan Satan ie chs 11-1 bo Noland! fsye cto a's eee sieatietoners 9 Malet otetens 19 | 61 VAR Se ckendsslencvexe aka toutes Germany ..u.... areloyelers sielete Sel able beeseic 142 | 209 |} :112 sicve|= oe cave eters Switzerland sac sctesacwtas eter 11 Led ail eexavercts 18 AON ey. Qiks |oel tren lvcececlewrs Belgium. ...2... alo lstonieyeraiere 9 IBA RAAaS 13 451) 16 staholtar closatets sate , | ed aha Seanad — | | et Motallseysrctstterste nocetoxets eeia{ 158 | TOT e349 cat 524 | 214) 990'14,875 | 22 | | 2. Distributed by Hector Bossange, Paris. \ lo = | os ect ¢ | . a | n ‘et sree | oo . ~ | 2s OG x ee SS) Feo (88 (ssp eel te 0] 028 w yet lS reo atl Ons eS 2 is Gets | SU} ‘ho Feu am 4 A a OPS Panic aS: e. 6p Crane oon = 2S COUNTRIES. ices | Set tacseeall Cone | tee a a PB o Aa | A i rN. |p pats nS 6) n s Ga Ho | o = oOo Se he fa | Be) | Be | Se2) Be] = | S| 8 Be LS | et Pole [ot On | hae: 1 dl By le a solos = 5 | Sea | oe ro) = 5 att A eet ae i a = id 1s RrartGe ayetetes sleisioye or ere/se siete e's G4 AT aan aft 80 148 AT ile cake avahevetelaueiate Ttalliy, staseherere. er Metsiccteie sovelsveisicln SOM cod le tanoretarel ates tvall 69 DIRS ARSARpGe cals Portugal. Mestaictciejetve eitckes 1 Le ee ately Q 14 PSH Ae se es Spain. sia pouahetese ejels ie ellelnig 6.80.8 Aes ereter ele Sacioc 5 QO He eiaiereleole cpovelese seh ersl tein | | Neel [ct i Rise Motalee terete ere cetera we atere ef 71 168 124 | 251 74 449 1,884 6

<<<Page: 301>>>

3. Distributed through the Royal Society and Henry Stevens, London.
z ee fe Psy | & ® ,* n S Oo 3 Sz ° | Aral eo ey 3 = O's oD OF as w Ao | se a 5) easy pos a | oO Oe oo | oro 2 Seth cant |) gy ets elf] eS ama Male is Cees so 2 Sea Sa wa of 6 Ss O 4 oo co Sp o ral on (3) hh Bes ae ITRIES 3 eh aye ets esi ps eS TI fe = COUNT . ne luk = Opel ta Ves ees are S @ Ay De (S) =] | ri a 771 ie wu o ; OO ~~ nm Qo ne ° oe Mee Oa aN ie o os os — ama! gis 3 ust a 5 eee leet g S Hoe 4S a | = E selse| 5 (8 .|se8 | se) 6 | © | 8 < < Sauna (ic a | Aa ee cs Gq Per clit at man | | Great Britain and Ireland...} 93 SBA 9 10S 206 | 108 | 423 2,013 5 | | 4. Distributed by other parties. ' am Lo om] Tu iS 2: a ra ae o& : , Bw R bp o jac! TS) D.= 2 } a a0 ASS a Ss) Lise ROS Ep n o a |, OS n a. oo On a ) Al qe | AS z mol ea&8Sa]/ saa] « | & 5 o-3 C=) os & Bp Pra ore 3) S i COUNTRIES. coh eualibenaeen. fey Nh Ses). 63 = a= = ei S oa) o& © mya ne er, ro) a D Se u 2 o 3 oOo Ge on 3s wo n O iS) os Na oD = ° = 2 O38 og a 2a| srs 3s a Ts 2 On| Se a S 4.9 2 | 49 EI Ray g oaOla8 6 3 Sea |] os °° = S < < Be |e a a Be | & z PESTER". SEES | palirk ati] —_— ——_|—— Rest of old world.......... 18 DH ere 19 45 2 \leelerejelelsalepe\ecs|eteke SouthwAmenicaks'. tke oss ses OP leeterelove| Seeks; ole 92 26 te eeeelee seer seee ee eeee MOLL. 5, tees se: sisye: siereiocshel atta 2 29 4] ql 2 114 1,019 5 Grand! totall.s siciseieteccc el) Sto). B02) |. Wd 526 1,052 | 398 |1,976 9,791 |.) 38 |
The number of foreign institutions to which full series of Smithsonian publications were sent for 1854 amounted to 263, or five more than the previous year. The list is necessarily subject to considerable variation, new names being added, and others taken off for non-compliance with the regulations of the Institution, or other causes. An acknowledgment of the reception of one package is imperatively required before another is sent, and in the failure to meet this rule, some first class institutions are dropped for one or two years, or until the omission is rectified.
There is no port to which the Smithsonian parcels are shipped where any duties are charged on them, a certified invoice of contents from the Institution being -sufficient to carry them through the custom-houses free of duty.
Receipt of books by exchange—The additions to the library of the Smithsonian Institution, by its exchanges, have been very marked during the year. Attention-was called in the last report to the very great increase in our foreign exchanges, in consequence of the extension of the list of recipients of Smithsonian publications. During 1854, the works received have been fully equal in value to those of 1853, con-
_ taining actually a larger number of pieces, and binding up to a greater number of volumes. The following table exhibits the record of this department. The discrepancy between this record and that of the
Mis. Doc. 24: 5)

<<<Page: 302>>>

library is owing to the fact that the latter included donations from individuals and other sources in this country, which the former did not, and that some separate sheets of maps were all bound together before being placed in the library :
Volumes.—Folio and quarto........-Pa Oe emt 274 COAG eae o ot ees pelea eee eiage ere 655 — 926 Parts of Volumes and Pamphlets—Folio and quarto. -447 Oeinvore me ca tne te 1,021 — 1,468 Maps and: Rmnpravin gsc. genie Bide ae re a emis 434 ga, Ra Are a Ss RR eS ae a 2,828
As was to be expected, a large proportion of receipts by exchanges consisted of the publications of learned societies, many of which, in addition to their current volumes, have sent their back series, either in whole or part. This department of the library is rapidly becoming more and more complete, and is believed even now to exceed that of any other library in the country. The catalogue now in preparation of the publications of societies and periodicals belenging to the Institution will furnish a ready means of indicating what are the desiderata of this nature.
In addition, however, to returns from societies, the receipts trom public libraries and universities of duplicates from their shelves have been very numerous, and consisting, as they usually do, of important scientific works, have proved highly acceptable. Owing to the constant communication kept up with the principal men of science at home and abroad, and the transmission to them of such publications of the Smithsonian Institution as related to their specialities. very many valuable memoirs and works have been received in return from this source
In the very great number of large donations received during the year it has been found impossible to give a particular enumeration ot them without encroaching too much in the space allotted to me. This is, however, less necessary, as the catalogues now in preparation, and shortly to be printed, will convey full information on the subject.
The following tables contain a statement of the packages received from the various sources specificed, for distribution in Europe as well as those received from Europe for this country :

<<<Page: 303>>>

Cambmdge.—Nautical, Almanac ...cnc =... 00S acto. 3 oe 35 Boston.—American Academy of Arts and Sciences.-.-.....133 Boston-Society of Natural History.:..-.2.-......-42
New Haven.—American Journal of Science........-.-.--.--. 47 New York.—New York Lyceum of Natural History...-.....99 American HthnolosicalsSociety sic. yi3o.... . 19 Philadelphia—Academy of Natural Sciences.........-.-... 136 Amoncan -Philosophical Society sy. es2l52. o. 116
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. ......-...9 Waskingion.—United. States. Patent. Office. ....10.3002. 324% 5 150 NationaluObservatonys £024), Doge Sauer eee il
Miwoltehowee: dG andl 5.5, eo iN sl ie Hye aloes 15
New Orleans—New Orleans Academy of Natural Sciences...300 Columbus, Ohio.—Ohio Board of Agriculture...........----Pall Detroit, Michigan—Michigan State Agricultural Society. ....200 Madison, Wisconsin.—Wisconsin State Agricultural Society.... 143 San Francisco, California.—Geological Survey of Calitormia. . . . 60: Santiago, Chile—Observatory. of Chili .....---...-.-.-.--48 From miscellaneous sources, including individuals, &c.. 2.2... 1,132 dopa FEC CIV Mis iGo) Mook sere tert oncce ang Seeks BS es 2,816
D.—TaABLE OF PACKAGES RECEIVED FROM EUROPE FOR DISTRIBUTION. TO VARIOUS SOCIETIES IN AMERICA.
Oa7ad7.—W aniOns SOCleties .. 2.25 2M. a abryS bide cee tecinye = 2. be 2, 3 Boston.——-American Academy of Arts and Sciences..........-.. 50 Natural History Society... -RPS ly A ne a a 26
How aime lng tlanoteayirt Ss Fh of gilli So Beew wml cep rinje ci the 5D Cambria: leer Watouy = — 48s! < 2 isis cenpnid De a2 mje gniminje Earn «ee i ENO TAM | CGT (2501 pee ey ee a 3
dlavama WMUIVERSIEY . 2 Sh2\ 2 Seis, psy ote tp. wea dic payee ele 15 Aomononitedl SOMMAl i226. 02. ek ok ee ee oe 12
AM Meat AeSOCIIHON Ue ele ee 13
WV orcesier.—— AMbiqniaintam (SOCIELY .... 2... 2-<cin+2 eel eee oe 1 New Haven.—American Journal of Science..........-.-.---.37 Aimemican Oriental Society. 8 22 ok te oe 5 marbany.—New .V One tate wibrany ry « 2\gi4 s-2 <2 do oecee cee eo: 10 New York.—New York Lyceum of Natural History............ Bi Ameri¢an Héhnological Society... .<n 5. «esi I Geographical and Statistical Society.......-....-3 Amenieamilinemiwttes 5 a5.0o Sch raj cs. Ge = ihe vn oD)
West Point.—United States Military Academy..............-1 Philadelphia.—American Philosophical Society. ......-.------47 Academy omNatural. Sciences ......42°.. .. 0... 4sms 40 Brankidangiastigegs et ok oe ]
Geological Survey of Pennsylvania.......----.a

<<<Page: 304>>>

Washington.—President of the United States............222-.. 1 Didie BP epanimemiey. cymes gti. <a 2a nics areretan oe 3
United. States Patent Office... -cesmddekuce 12
CGR Ress AIDTATY. » mre c Kee eb aehes tena = ed OaeiMmUUBIeN, fae om A ch. Sele nh Gace serie’ ee
Nationgl, Observatory jen.a2. Heabeinet.ncmat og cee
National, Institutet tx berg pele cs cies OE 3 Commissioner of Indian Affairs % Bus fo jet. oo Beck 1
United States Naval Astronomical Expedition, Chili. 15
Georgetown, District of Columbia.—Georgetown College...-..... 6 Chicago, Illinois —Mechanics’ Tnogeaie: ESN, ca ity yee Me ata 5 GColleces. in diflerent, placearatti de ata Veekeoliwkath “jour. 19 Warrous, ‘State Inbraz tes. i... Sot SSeaiate eo fae Ee 37 Miscellaneous societies and individuals......,......---.eeee~ 043 Totaleaaens: Uives DVL let eed of I et ee Sa I 2 987
In concluding this portion of my report, I would beg to call your attention to the zeal and fidelity with which the agents of the Institution in London, Leipsic, and Paris, have discharged their duties. The
thanks of the Institution are most especially due to Dr. J. G. Fliigel, of
Leipsic, whose efforts in the great cause of tightening the bonds — union between the literary and scientific men and institutions of the two worlds are beyond all praise.
3.—Domestic ExcHANGES.
The copies of volume 6 of S Smithsonian Contributions were distributed early in the summer, through the agents of be Institution in different cities of the Union, as follows: Messrs. J. P. Jewett & Co., Boston; Geo. P. Putnam & Co., New York; A cane Grambo & Co., Philadelphia; John Russell, Charleston; B. M. Norman, New Orleans; Dr. Geo. Engelmann, St. Louis; H. W. Derby, Cincinnati 5 and tea ett, Proctor & Worthington, Cleveland. The services of these gentlemen, involving Gouauerable expense of time and trouble, have, in every instance, been given without charge.
4.—MusEuUM.
of the Museum.
During no period in the history of the Institution have the receipts ot specimens been so numerous, or valuable, as in the year 1854. Contributions have been steadily flowing in from w idely remote regions, many of which had been previously but little known. Expeditions, both public a and private, individuals and societies, have all aided in gathering together w hat is now confidently believed to be the most
valuable collection in the world of many divisions of the natural history of North America. Much has been done by parties aided directly to a ereater or less extent by the Smithsonian Institution, and much by persons acting in an individual and inde pendent capacity. ‘The most im

<<<Page: 305>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. a7
portant additions have, however, been received from the various gov-
ernment expeditions mentioned hereafter. Many officers of the army,
as heretofore, have forwarded more or less complete collections, made in the neighborhood of the posts at which they have been stationed.
The government expeditions by which collections have been made are as follows:
United States Mexican Boundary Commission, under the scientific direction of Major Emory, United States army ; General Robert B. Campbell, commissioner. The region illustrated by the collections received consisted of tne Rio Grande, from Eagle Pass to its mouth. Under the present organization ef the commission, with Major Emory acting as commissioner in addition to his former duties, there is reason to hope for new results of the most important character.
Survey of route for railroad to the Pacific—
A. Northern route, under Governor I. I. Stevens. Region traversed extending from Fort Benton, on the Missouri, to the Pacific ocean.
B. Parallel of 38°, under Lieutenant E. G. Beckwith. From the Arkansas, by way of Fort Massachusetts and Salt Lake, to San Francisco.
C. Parallel of 35°, under Lieutenant Whipple. From Fort Smith, on the Arkansas, via Albuquerque, Zuni, San Francisco mountains, and the Mohave, to San Francisco.
D. Partial route, under Lieutenant R. S. Williamson. Extending from San Francisco to the Mohave, and Tejon Pass to camp Yuma.
E. Parallel of 32°, under Lieutenant J. G. Parke. Extending from camp Yuma via Tueson to El Paso.
F. Parallel of 32°, under Captain J. Pope. From El Paso, across the head of the Brazos and Colorado, to Preston in Texas.
Exploration of the coast of California, by Lieutenant W. P. Trowbridge, United States army.
Exploration of the La Plata and its tributaries, by Lieutenant Page, United States navy.
A more particular account of these several expeditions will be found in the article on scientific explorations.
From these different expeditions a large number of collections have been received, embracing material of the first importance and interest. Full reports are in preparation, and will be presented to Congress for publication with the other results of the explorations, and with such amount of illustrations as circumstances may require or authorize.
Among the more private explorations, from which results of the greatest importance have been received, are those of Dr. P. R. Hoy, in Missouri; Reverend A. C. Barry, in Wisconsin; Gustavus Wurdemann, in Louisiana; Lieutenant H. G. Wright, at Garden Key, Florida ; Robert Kennicott, northern Illinois; Dr. L. A. Edwards, Fort Towson, &c.; together with my own, on the Jersey coast. Further accounts of these will be hereafter given.
In view of the vast multitude of objects received during the year, it is manifestly impossible to give full details respecting them; and I can here only refer to this subject in the most general manner, taking up the collections in the following order:
Mammals.—A specimen of the so-called Sampson fox, @ peculiar va

<<<Page: 306>>>

riety of the red fox, or Vulpes fulvus, was received from Dr. Ackley and Dr. Kirtland, of fieveland. Various kinds of Sorex, and other small mammals, from Reverend Chas. Fox, of Grosse Isle, Michigan.* The foetus of a whale, from the arctic regions, was presented by Lieutenant Maury. The fresh skin and horns of a fallow deer (Cervus dama), and elk (Elaphus canadensis,) by Colonel Tuley, of Clarke county, Virginia, whose extensive park contains many fine specimens of these species. A pair of living wild cats (Lynx rufus, ) were sent. by Dr. Evans through Di: Owen: The most important additions, however, have been received from Lieutenant Trowbridge, collected on the Pacific coast, including skins of deer, wolves, foxes, hares, lynxes, &e., with many small mammals. In this collection are several new species of hare.
Birds.—A very large collection of the birds of California was received from Lieutenant ‘Trowbridge, embracing nearly all of the larger aquatic species of the coast, and ¢ another from Mr. Cutts. A collewion ot over 100 skins, from Gustavus Wurdemann, at Calcasieu, Louisiana, included several very rare and new species. Dr. Brewer presented some specimens from Wisconsin, and Mr. William M. Penrose an albino blackbird from near Carlisle, Pennsylv ania.
Reptiles and fishes—As usual, it is in this depariment that the additions have been greatest. The species of Wisconsin have been received from Dr. Hoy and Mr. Barry; of New Jersey and New York, from Mr. Brevoort and myself; of Mississippi, from Colonel Wailes and Reverend Benjamin @hasd: of California, from Dr. Newberry, Mr. Bowman, and Lieutenant Trowbridge; of Illinois, from Mr. J. D. Sera Robert Kennicott, and Mr. Harris; of South Carolina, from Pro-
essor Holmes, Mrs. Daniel, and Dr. Barker; a North Carolina, from 1 Bridger, Mr. McNair, arid Mr. Lineback : f Louisiana, from Mr. Wurdemann; of Missouri, from Dr. Hoy, De ‘Engelmann, and Mr. Lear; of Alabama, from Mr. Edgew orth; of Minnesota, from Mr. Riggs; of Tennessee, from Pr pfesanrs Owen and Johnson; of Chihuahua, from Mr. Potts; of Gulf of Mexico, from Lieutenant Wright ; of Surinam, from Dr. Wyman; of Brazil, from Mr. Austin; of Trinidad and Key West, from Professor W. H. Thomas; of Africa, from Dr. Steele ; ‘together with many others. My limited space will not allow me to go into details respecting these collections beyond stating that those of Lieutenant Trow bridge are the most important, adding, as they do, some fifty new species of ‘fishes alone to the North Ainiericg fauna. Collections of re ptiles deposited by Dr. Webb, who procured them in northern Mexico, New Mexico, and Texas, are likewise very vi aluable.
Quite a large number of livi ing reptiles—snakes, lizards, turtles, &c., were received. during the year, “but, owing to the want of means for their proper preservation, few survived. “Among those, however, at present in apparent good health, m may be mentioned a deritiein rattle-
=} snake ( Crotalus durissus) from Virginia; the black massasauga, ( Crotalophorus massasauga,) sent from Ohio by Dr. Kirtland; six specimens of C. tergeminus, Say, or prairie rattle, from Illinois, by Robert
* To this gentleman the Institution has been under very great obligations for numerous specimens illustrating the zoology of Michigan, accompanied, usually, by copious notes on the habits and peculiarities of the species. It i is with profound regret that | have to record his death by cholera during the past summer.

<<<Page: 307>>>

Kennicott ; two young alligators from Professor Forshey, Texas ; a snapping turtle, (Chelonura serpentina) from Mississippi, and various others. Another season will, however, find us better prepared for a great variety of species already promised. Few collections of living animals excite more interest in the spectator than those of reptiles, while the habits of many species, at present unknown, can only be ascertained by their study in captivity. None admit of such confined accommodations, or require so little attendance and food.
Inver ois Mering invertebrata of Jersey, were collected by myself, and of Louisiana by Mr. Wurdemann. A highly interesting and valuable collection made by Mr. Jarvis, inspector of timber in the Portsmouth navy yard, and presented by Commodore Smith, chief of the Bureau of Docks and Yards, illustrates well the growth of the teredo and barnacle, with the real or pretended artificl jal methods of preventing their ravages. From the experiments of Mr. Jarvis, however, it would seem to tie proved conclusively that the white zinc paint, made by the New Jersey Company, as long as the surface covered by it remains unbroken, forms as effectual a protection to a ship’s bottom as copper sheathing itself. Nearly all the alcoholic collections received included specimens of astaci and insects from different parts of North America.
Fossils—Many valuable collections of fossil remains have been received. An interesting series from the vicinity of Satow was for-
warded by the Rev. L. Vortisch; Mr. G. Lambert, of Mons, presented a series of carboniferous fossils of Belgium's specimens from ‘Texas were sent in by Lieutenant J. G. Benton, United States army, and by Dr. Julius Froebel; from Panama by Dr. E. L. Berthoud; from Illinois by Dr. Se onana ; from North Carolina by Mr. Bridger. A complete set ‘of minerals and fossils of the remarkable brown-coal beds of Brandon, Vermont, was received from David Buckland. Sharks teeth and mastodon bones of Florida, from Captain Casey, United States army; fossil-wood of California, from Mr. Langton, and infusorial earth of Monterey, from Major Barnard.
Minerals.—A valuable collection of specimens illustrating the materials of which some of the principal public buildings in Europe are constructed, gathered by Mr. Evans, was deposited in hisname by Lieutenant Gillis, and minerals ot New Menico and Texas were received from Lieutenant Colonel J. K: Mansfield, United States army, and Dr. Froebel; opal of Mexico from Mr. Rogers. A series illustrating the auriferous deposites of Bridgewater, Vermont, was presented by Mr. Cunningham.
Plants.—Some very large collections of plants of the Rocky Mountains and the regions west were brought in by the exploring expeditions. Others were sent from Texas by Dr. Ervendburg, from Minnesota by Mr. Riggs, from Madagascar by Messrs. Cotheal, &c. A very large leaf of the Talipot tree was presented by Commodore Aulick.
Antiquities —V arious specimens of Indian remains in North America have been received during the year from various sources, as also an ancient Peruvian vase from Taleahuana.

<<<Page: 308>>>

40 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF b—Work done in the Museum.
The labor of receiving, unpacking, and assorting the specimens received during the year has been very great, occupying a large share of my time as well as that of Mr. Girard.
Some idea of the labor involved may be obtained from the fact that in 1854 there were received 35 kegs and barrels, 26 cans, 175 jars, 94 boxes, and 32 packages, all containing a greater or less number of specimens, giving an aggregate of over 350 different lots, without
including numerous specimens received singly. All these had to be assorted or repacked, labelled by localities, at least, and recorded in the proper books, and in most cases duplicate lists sent to the donors. We have, however, succeeded without other than mechanical aid in accomplishing all that was immediately necessary to be done, leaving very few arrears for the ensuing year.
Considerable progress has, likewise, been made in the determinations and descriptions of the collections themselves. A number of reports upon the vertebrata of the several explorations, both of the Pacific railroad survey, and of the United States navy astronomical expedition, under Lieutenant Gillis, have been either completed by Mr. Girard and myself or are in an advanced state of progress. The series of descriptive systematic catalogues of the collections has been extended by the preparation of an elaborate account of the North American toads by Mr. Girard, and of the frogs and tree frogs by myself; these are entirely finished and ready for press, and will make a volume nearly as large as the catalogue of North American serpents. Full descriptions of the families, genera, and species of all inhabiting North America (including about 20 new ones) are given, and analytic and exhaustive methods applied to the species. Such catalogues, forming as they do so many manuals in North American zoology, extend the benefits of the museum far beyond its walls. The demand, indeed, tor them js so great, from all parts of the world, that of the catalogue of serpents two editions of 1,000 copies each have been called for and distributed.
A good deal of time has also been taken up in the preparation of specimens for examination, cleaning skeletons and skulls, dissecting, &c., while the selection, labelling, packing, and recording of the collections sent from the Institution have created no inconsiderable amount of labor.
In connxtion with the subject of the work done in the museum, it may, perhaps, be proper to refer to the article in the appendix containing the result of my observations on the habits and peculiarities of the fishes of the Jersey coast, as made in the summer, together with descriptions of the colors from life of such species as are apt to fade in spirits.
c—The present Condition of the Museum. The paragraph upon the work done in the Museum covers to some
extent the subject of the present heading. No change has been made in the places of deposit of the specimens owing to the very recent

<<<Page: 309>>>

eriod at which the new hall intended to receive the collections was completed, and this year, it is earnestly hoped, will not pass without an improvement in this respect. ‘The new hall is quite large enough to contain all the collections hitherto made, as well as such oes belonging to the government as may be assigned to it. No single room in the country is, perhaps, equal to it in capacity or adaptation to its purposes, as, by the proposed arrangement, it is capable of receiving twice as large a surface of cases as.the old Patent Office hall, ae three times that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. In this room, then, there will be abundant opportunity to arrange all the collections which have been made or may be expected for some time to come in the order best suited to the wants of the student and most interesting to the casual visitor. In the mean time, under the conditions of the past year, everything has been done to render the collections as available and accessible as circumstances would allow; all the North American mammalia, amounting to over 500 specimens in skins, have been arranged systematically in drawers of dust and insects-proof walnut cases. ‘The birds have been similarly treated, while the reptiles and fishes (each species from each locality in a separate jar) have been assorted as systematically as the over crowding of the present confined space would allow. During the year savers thousand jars have been filled with alcholic specimens, which are illy accommodated on shelves, nearly every square inch of which was occupied at the beginning of the year. ‘The shells of mollusca with the minerals and fossils, have generally been repacked after entry and stored away for the present, requiring as they do a less vigilant supervision. This has, to a certain extent, likewise been done with the plants.
d—Distribuiion of Collections.
In accordance with the spirit of the Institution, quite a large vical of specimens, in sets varying in magnitude, have been distributed during the past year to various institutions and individuals desiring them for purposes of special investigation. Some of these may be looked upon in the light of returns for similar favors received or promised, bui they have generally been furnished without reference to an equivalent of any kind. As the facilities of the Institution for receiving and properly arranging its collections increase and the duplicates are ascertained, by % a proper examination of the specimens, this system of distribution may be. carried to an extent that shall materially affect the progress of science throughout this country and the world.
To the investigator who has heretofore been obliged to spend the best years of his life in collecting together the materials of his labor, gathered amid toils and privations to which, in the end, he may be forced to succumb, the advantage of finding all he needs ready to his hand, and in greater extent and variety than he could singly hope to obtain, are beyond all calculation. For this reason it is that the accumulation of a large amount of duplicate material becomes necessary,

<<<Page: 310>>>

in addition to the complete series of specimens to be retained on the shelves.
Among the more important collections thus distributed may be mentioned one of 145 species of North American birds, in 199 specimens, to the Swedish Academy of Sciences at Stockholm, in return for a very valuable collection of skins and skeletons of north European mammalia ; 97 species and 160 specimens of North American birds to Mr. F. Sturm, of Nurmburg, 1 in return for collection of birds, &c., from central Europe ; 104 lots of fishes and invertebrates to Professor Agassiz, of Cambridge, in return for numerous donations of duplicates: ‘from. his pre-eminently valuable collection ; fishes of Massachusetts to Dr. D. H. Storer, of Boston, to assist him in the preparation of his memoir on the fishes of the State ; numerous birds and quadrupeds, both European and North American, to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences; eggs of American birds to Dr. T. M. Brewer, for his work on North American oology ; large numbers of North American coleoptera to Dr. Leconte, for his iments on this department of entomology, &e. The list is capable of considerable extension, but there is enough to show how the Institution has endeavored to cooperate with all societies and individuals, engaged in special investigations, requiring materials additional to those already in their possession.
It will, however, be sufficiently evident that the Smithsonian Institution cannot indiscriminately undertake systematic exchange of specimens with other parties—with individuals especially. The force of the natural history department is not now sufficient for this, and may never be. ‘To the mere collector, as distinguished from the investigator, it will not be expedient to distribute specimens to any Considerable extent, as the disposable stock may be reduced so low as to render it difficult or impossible to do proper justice to the student. While, however, the Institution cannot undertake the mere business of exchange with individuals, unless in exceptional cases, and even with institutions, it can do and bas done much to facilitate such exchange between other parties. Scarcely a week passes without the communication of information of the readiness or desire of exchange 1 in particular departments on the part of different individuals or associations. All notifications or applications of the kind are systematically recorded in the proper books and duly referred to when occasion requires
Professor E. B. Andrews.—\Keg of fishes trom the Obio river.
Commodore J. Aulick, U. S. N.—Leat of Talipot palm (Corypha umbracaulifera) from Ceylon.
Joseph B. Austin—Jar of reptiles trom Para.
Spencer F. Baird.—T wo kegs and one hundred jars of fishes, and invertebrates, with skins of birds, salle and teeth of sharks and rays; from Beesley’s Point, Cape May county, New Jersey. One keg of fishes from Greenport and Riverhead, Long*Island. One keg of fishes from the fresh and brackish waters about Sing-Sing, New York. One keg

<<<Page: 311>>>

of fishes from the Hackensack river and Sparkill, Rockland county, New York. |
Dr. S. W. Barker.—Uiving specimens of Nerodia erythrogaster, Heterodon niger, Ophibolus getulus, and Elaps fulvus from South Carolina.
Major J. G. Barnard, U. S. A.—lInfusorial earth from Monterey, California.
Rev. A. C. Barry.—kKeg of fishes from southern Wisconsin ; two kegs of mammals, reptiles, fishes, &c., from northern Wisconsin.
Licutenant J. G. Benton, U. S. A.—Box of fossils from San Antonio, Texas.
Dr. E. L. Berthoud.—F ossils from the isthmus of Panama. Indian relics and fishes from Bourbon county, Kentucky.
J. S. Bowman and S. M. Bowman.—Fishes and reptiles collected on the route from Salt Lake city to Marysville, California.
C. C. Brevoort.—F resh specimens of Esox fasciatus from Long Island. Fresh specimens of trout and hake from New York. Fishes, in alcohol, from the vicinity of Brooklyn, New York.
T. M. Brewer, M. D.—Skins of birds from Dane county, Wisconsin.
J. L. Bridger—Stand containing a series of tertiary fossils, with living serpents, Farancia abacurus, and two birds, Ortyx Virginianus, trom Edgcombe county, North Carolina.
David Buckland.—Box of minerals and fossils from the brown coal deposit of Brandon, Vermont.
Captain Casey, U. S. A.—Fossil teeth of mastodon and sharks from Florida.
fer. Benjamin Chase-—Stutted Sternothaerus from Concordia lake, Louisiana.
Captain Chatten.—Specimens, in alcohol, of Ophidium marginatum from Beesley’s point, New Jersey.
Charleston College, S. C—Duplicates of a collection of Batrachia.
Messrs. Cotheal i; Co., New York.—Specimens of seeds of silk cotton ; leaves, fruit, and manufactured cloth from the Rafar palm, Madagascar. Model of Madagascar canoe.
John P. Cunningham.—Box of minerals illustrating the auriferous deposits of Vermont.
R. D. Cutts —Skins of thirty species of birds from San Francisco county, California.
Mrs. M. E. Daniel—Can of reptiles and fishes from Anderson, South Carolina.
Edward T. Deng.—Reptiles and fishes from Fort Union, Nebraska.
T. J. Dryer—Specimevs of minerals from the summit of Mount Hood, Oregon.
J. Eckels, (United States consul, Taleahuana.)—Peruvian vase and ear of corn, disintered near Talcahuana.
A. E. Edgeworth—Can of reptiles and fishes, with dried plants, shells, &c., from Marengo county, Alabama.
Dr. L. A. Edwards, U. 8. A.—One box of fossils, one bale of plants, ten jars of reptiles and insects, and various heads and feet of birds, from Fort Towson, Arkansas.
Dr. George Engelmann.—One barrel fishes, reptiles, and mammals from St. Louis.

<<<Page: 312>>>

L. C. Ervendburg.—Package of seeds of Texas plants.
Dr. J. Evans and Dr. D. D. Owen.—Two living wild cats, (Lyng rufus,) from the Upper Missouri.
Dr. Julius Froebel.Box of fossils and minerals from Texas and New Mexico.
Professor Charles Fox.—Skin of shrew, ( Sorex dekayt.)
Lieutenant J. M. Gilliss, U. S. N.—Specimens of building materials collected in Europe, by W. W. Evans. Deposited.
John Greiner.—Specimens of Phrynosoma, in alcohol, from Santa Fé.
Dr. A. M. Grinnan.—Collection of plants from near Fredericksburg, Virginia. Can of reptiles and fish from Madison, Virginia. -
J. O. Harris.—Fossils, insects, fishes, and reptiles, from Ottawa, illinois.
Dr. Henderson, U. S. N.—Jar of fishes from Columbia county, Pennsylvania.
Mrs. Mary Hereford—Bones of Zeuglodon, from a marl bed in Calvert county, Maryland.
Dr. Hereford.—Living specimens of Leptophis estivus, from Prince George’s, Maryland.
Dr. P. R. Hoy.—Fishes from southern Wisconsin; keg of fishes, reptiles, and mammals, from Illinois and Missouri; two kegs of fishes and reptiles from western Missouri; reptiles from Mansfield county, Ohio.
Rev. Thomas R. Hunt.—Red shale, with teeth of fishes, from northern Pennsylvania.
R. W. Kennicott—Two jars of reptiles, fishes, &c., from northern [linois ; box containing six living Crotalophorus tergeminus, and other species of serpent, with other reptiles, from northern Illinois.
Dr. W. 8S. King, U. 8S. A.—Skins of chaparal cock, ( Geococeyx Mexicanus,) from San Diego, California.
C. F. Kirtland.—Keg of fishes from Yellow creek, Ohio.
Professor J. P. Kirtland and Dr. Ackley —F resh specimen of Sampson fox, ( Vulpes fulvus,) from Cleveland, Ohio.
Prof. J. P. Kirtland.—F our living specimens of Crotalophorus massasSUNZA.
G. Lambert.—Fossils and rocks from Belgium.
W. F. Langton.—¥ossil wood and sulphuret of iron, from the Minnesota mines in California.
O. H. P. Lear.—Fishes from Marion county, Missouri.
Major John Le Conte—Jar of reptiles from Liberty county, Georgia ; skin of Sorex from Georgia.
J. C. Lineback.—Can of reptiles and fishes from Salem, North Carolina.
Marshall McDonald.—Living specimen of Scotophis Alleghaniensis, Alleghany black snake, from Hampshire county, Virginia.
Lieutenant A. McRae, United States navy.—Scorpions and crustaceans from Panama.
J.C. McNair.—Eight jars of reptiles and fishes from Summerville, North Carolina.
R. C. Mack.—Specimens of Zanzibar copal, enclosing an insect and a lizard.

<<<Page: 313>>>

Rev. Charles Mann and Masters George and William Mann.—Salamander (Amblystoma opacum) with eggs taken 3 in February, 1854. Can of fishes and reptiles from Gloucester county, Virginia.
Colonel J. K. Mansfield, United States Arm Ys —Box of minerals and
ossils, collected between Fort Atkinson and Santa Fé, New Mexico.
Hon. George P. Marsh.—Keg of fishes and reptiles with shells, &c., from Palestine, Syria, &c.
Lieutenant M. F. Maury, United States Navy.—Foetus of right whale, and portion of the skin of sperm whale of 75 barrels, from tlie North Atlantic.
Professor O. W. Morris —Young Menopoma just excluded trom the
go, Holston river, Tennessee.
W. E. Moore.—Skin of humming bird, from the Island of Juan Fernandez.
Dr. J. S. Newberry. posited.)
Professor R. Owen. —Keg of reptiles and fishes from Tennessee.
William M. Penrose—Skin of albino female of Agelaius phoeniceus, shot near Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
Charles Pillichody.— Two cans of fishes from Mobile, Alabama.
John Potts—Skins of mammalia and reptiles in alcohol, from New Mexico. Skins of Lepus artemisia and of several birds, with a can of reptiles and fishes, from Chihuahua.
Alfred L. Riges.—Can of reptiles and fishes, from Lac qui Parle, Minnesota.
Jeremiah Rogers.x—Precious opal from Mexico.
Hon. Sion H. Rogers.—F ossil bone from Roanoke, North Carolina.
Sir R. Schomburgh.—La and shells, from Guiana.
J. D. Sergeant.—Specimens of Pityophis and Eutema, from Illinois.
Dr. G. G. Shumard.—Five cans of fishes, one can of reptiles and two boxes of insects, from Fort Smith, Arkansas.
Captain E. K. Smith, U. §. A.—Fishes and reptiles, from St. Augustine, Florida.
Commodore Smith, U. S. N.—Series of specimens illustrating the experiments of Mr. John Jarvis, inspector of timber, navy yard, Portsmouth, Virginia, on the growth and ravages of teredo and barnacle, and means of protection against them.
Dr. Thomas L. Steele—Four jars of reptiles and fishes, with one Pteropus, from Cape Palmas, west Africa.
Dr. R. P. Stevens —Box of fossils and shells, from Ilinois.
Professor W. H. B. Thomas.—Jar of reptiles, from Trindad, and one from Key West, Florida. Skin of Scalops breweri.
Lneutenant W. P. Trowbridge, U. S. A.—One keg and can of reptiles and fishes, with two boxes of skins of birds and mammals, skeletons. shells, &c., from San Diego, Monterey, and Presidio, California.
Colonel Joseph Tuley. Skins and horns of male fallow deer, Cervus dama, and elk, Klaphus canadensis, trom his park in Clarke county, Virginia.
Pyarrer L. Vortisch—Collections of minerals, fossils, and antiquities, from Satow, Germany.
from Bodega, California (de

<<<Page: 314>>>

Colonel B. L. C. Wailes—Three kegs of fishes, from Mississisippi.
Keg of reptiles and fishes, from Washington, Mississippi.
Dr. T. H. Webb.—Reptiles, mammals, insects, &c., from California, New Mexico, and Texas. (Deposited.) .
Lieutenant H. G. Wright, U. S. A.—Keg of fishes, from Fort Jefterson, Garden Key, Florida.
Gustavus Wurdemann.— Fishes, reptiles, and invertebrates, from Aransas, Texas, and New Orleans. Box of bird skins, and ten jars of reptiles, fishes, &c., from Calcasieu, Louisiana. Six jars of fishes, &c., from Fort Morgan, Mobile, Alabama. Reptiles, fishes, and mvertebrates, Brazos, Texas. Fishes, reptiles, and invertebrates in alcohol, with skins of birds and mammals, from Aransas, Texas.
Dr. J. Wyman.—Can of fishes and reptiles, from Surinam and Guiana.

<<<Page: 315>>>

Last of Meteorological Stations and Observers.
State. Name of observer. Residence. | County. ; a : | Nova Scotia......... Henry Poole... ... 20.2 Albion Mines....... Pictou.
WAS TAS y Stuantere eiaecwcrs | Wolfville, Acadia Co llege. Canadayaierenens 6 a2 Dr. Charles Smallwood..! St. Martin’s s, near M ontreal. Maine...... Siareteote.«\¢ George B. Barrows......| | Fry eburpi.|.. +. -s-| Oxtord.
Joshua: Bartlett Ge. 25. 0x6 South fioaeeons -| Lincoln.
| Sohnid. Bellyeetateh mises 1 Caramel ttceias ..te sicher « | Penobscot.
i William-D. Dana....... |, Permiyistaccta acts oia'cls 4+! | Washington. Samuel A. Eveleth...... |) Warley ey oe 3.3% | | Cumberland.
| Rev. S. H.Merrill... ..:.} | Bluchilleies.s. ksh | | Hancock. TD: “Rar ery tate ote 40%) P WSPCUDEMs/clevecuee 15/0/00 | Washington.
New Hampshire..... Samuel N. Bell.........| Manchester......... | | Hillsborough.
Rev. ib. Wi weonard:..../|!xeter 4.24 « ctf ersie's | | Rockingham.
do Gey Mla Ri tite trefast cm te cre | Londonderry .:..... | Rockingham. Dr. William Prescott. . ‘| Comeordyyeiiers lotta teo:: | Merrimack. George B. Sawyer......| Salmon Falls .......) Stafford. Henry Hh. Sawyer ....... Great Halse a sis). 2. | Stafford.
| Albert A. Young...... r|
Prof, Ira Young.......§ | | JEAN OVETA lorlerove) sielovete | Grafton. Wermont, cian. cis | Dp sBuckilamdisstyascles seis | Brandon......+..... Rutland.
eee = St. Johnsbury.......| Caledonia. Charles A. J. Marsh... | ae fi James A. Paddock .... | CradtsDury,.<:. <050 sis Orleans.
| Di Underwood. si. ove. <<: \'Castletoniss o' ssigiers o's | Rutland. Zadock Thompson......) | Burlington. 26... | Crittenden.
Massachusetts .......| Lucius C. Allin.........| | Springtield Sng or: Ooe | Hampden. William Baconws oe bec. | Richmond.........., Berkshire. John Brookstyssaer con ~~ | BrinGetone.selsleleeie oral | Worcester Marshal Conant......... Bridgewater ........ Plymouth.
Prof. P. A. Chadbourne...) Williamstown...... Berkshire. Emerson Davis.......... | Westfield... -.--| Hampden. Bs Rist Giitordiiietats: Sh ate re ror ' Wood’s Hole . Wivtetaveis Barnstable. Amasa Holcomb ........ |Southwick.j.'ssics s « | Hampden. George Chandler, M. D..| Worcester....... .++| Worcester. a J. Holmes......... a | Williamstown. nelafoketets Berkshire.
ames Orton vac... ons Hon. Wm. Mitchell. opeeteva | | Nantucket ECC. CO SI Nantucket.
(RD. Musseyee ss: . .| Rockport...........| Essex.
| Dr. J. Geo. Metcalf.....| Mendon............ | Worcester. Dr. H. C. Perkins.......| Newburyport .......| Essex. lenny sRiCeme terclctesere sels | North Attleboro’....) Bristol. Samuel Rodman........ | New Bedford ....... Bristol.
Dr. James Robbins...... [WWixbridg@eyt. :...cc\ererets| | Worcester. Brofieh StSnell/t. sists cx Amherstivs)i.s os/e sie 3 | Hampshire. Dr vB. wAGe Smiths. 3.2 Worcester... ss02s0 | Worcester. Albert Schlegel......... SP puntos 6 3. < cate clare. | Bristol.
Rhode Island........ Prof. A. Caswell........ Rrovidence «2... 3%)... | Providence. George Manchester...... PROGtSMOUtH..'s's «4s/0r. | Newport. Samuel Powel.......... | Newport ...........| Newport. Henry C. Sheldon....... | North Scituate......) Providence.
Connecticut ......... Rev..Ds Edwards... <<. +| | New London........ New London. "ES SMG Olde ese sieve ess | West Cornwall ..... | Litchfield.
1 Ee ars ea eerieesiots a otcrciers | Romireteaettcsecaen | Windham. Prof. J. Johnston sy. . 3.00. Middletown.........| Middlesex. Dr. Ovid Plumb.........] Salisbury..... -++ee.| Litchfield. James Ranleinsstelts es) esse | Saybrook........... Middlesex.
Wew Yorkese'sc'0':.. « «| Es Mi. Allbameepete co... (VA eliGa\ sterateleo eva lee» | Alleghany. Edward A. H. Allen..... DTOY Ris:doas-cdee.» «| ensselaer. Thomas B. Arden... Beverly. .+.+e-ee-e+ Putnam. Warren P. Adams.......| Glen’s Falls........ | Warren. Charles A. Avery.......| Seneca Falls........ , Seneca. John Bowman ..........| Baldwinsville .......| Onondaga. .| New York.....2e22.| New York.
S. De Witt Bloodgood..

<<<Page: 316>>>

LIST—Continued.
State. Name of observer. Residence. | County. New York—Con..... Eph. N. By yam .......+-| Sag Harbor.......-.| Suffolk. | J. Everett Breed ..... o:60e| ASIILED VALE ei eve'syares e/a} Jefferson. GC... Phurstoni@hase'.... «>| Chathaticcisienmel « « | Columbia. E. A. Dayton.....eereeMiadri dict. ite ei eoratdce -.« St. Lawrence.
New Jersey.cseesseee
Pennsylvania. ..e..-.
SPtiega,
Delaware. is.c\aeajes see
eeeeerecee
Maryland ..
Virginia. oscessereee
J. S. Gibbons... 0. W. KE. Guest...
Samuel Couch. Benj. Hallowell.......
eee eeree
.| Ashland. ... ++
New York...-. Ogdensburg.......
| Alexandria
eee eereee
| New York.| St. Lawrence.
J. Caroll House........Lowville ........-.-| Lewis. Js A lant. acct Erestoheielig | OSWego..eeeenecvee Oswego. Dr. S. B. Hunt ..% 0... | Buffalo. 2%. ajeje.02:016 -.| Erie. E. W. Johnson .........| Canton.......... .-.| St. Lawrence. John Liefiertsieiete& siselsn'= HOGI adie ese crear, -| SENECA. L. A. Langdon ......... Falconer ..... Sieiche 6: Chautauque. Charles A. Lee......... | Peekskill. .....-+-.| Westchester. Capt. W. 8. Malcom....| Oswego...-..-++) Oswego. L. F. Munger....5....+-| Le Roy........--.| Genessee. Prof. D. J. Pratté% << «.| Eredoniand.<. -----| Chautauque. Dr..J..W. Smith... ...| East Franklin.......| Delaware. lige O. Salisbury.......| Buffalo...........-.| Erie. . H. P. Sartwell..... 5 Penn anid scisictec's.<: Yates.
Rev. Thomas H. Strong.) Flatbush ..........| Kings. Stillman Spooner ..... --| Wampsville...... .--| Madison.
| C. S. Woodward........ Beaver Brook......-| Sullivan. P. O. Williams ......... | Gouverneur ........ St. Lawrence. Walter D. Yale... -<. +5. Houseville........-. Lewis. Robert Li. Cooke. ........«) Bloomfelda. «syrah « Essex. Prof. Geo. H. Cook ..... New Brunswick..... Middlesex. Rev. Ads: Brost ja ssc. oe Burlington. ....20.+Burlington.
| Bi Dis Miaelonetebereiats eusie cops | New Brunswick.....| Middlesex. : W.A. Whitehead....... Newark. ....e:.0-. Essex. i Samuel Brown....... oie +| Bedtorditajele cle sisisici = « Bedford. W.. | O;gBlodwetinceas.ssacwisie | Sugar GTrove........) Warren. Dr. A. C. Blodget.......| Youngsville......... | Warren. John Comlly ..cie0. 20.00 | Byberry ...+++++.---| Philadelphia. D.. S.. Deering ih -....-,-| Brookwille-s32 2). 4... Jefferson. Fenelon Darlington ..... | Pocopson...........| Chester. Joseph Edwards......... | Chromedale......... | Delaware.
| Rev. D. J. Byler.......| Waynesboro’ ......| Franklin. John Heisely .....Se oie «| EADTRISDURE Ms wfetereel 6+ « | Dauphin. Ebenezer Hance..’.......| Morrisville.......... | Bucks. O. T. Plo bbs: f.3a7dis <:o.0,cieie} FRAMGOMGHA. sieloeats «+ | Crawford. John Hughes ........... i} Rottsyiller.ic i. .i). =. | Schuylkill. MiJacabss:aiclissd's a0200 | Gettysburg ....+.... Adams. Profiad gAt Kirkpatrick .., Philadelphia........ Philadelphia. JR. TO WHIC) .ersie". <jeeo\eis | Warrior’s Mark..... | Huntington. Rev. J. Grier Ralston...) Norristown ......... Montgomery. Paul Swift...... bios Basieleis | Haverford..........| Philadelphia. Francis Schreiner....... Moss Grove ........ Crawford. Dr... Smysers a oes) Pittsburgh..........| Alleghany. Dr. R., BP. Steph@ns: -:en.| Ceres..... Aoesigels «)<| iC Kean. T. H. Thickstun GeV... | Meadville ...... ....| Crawford. A. D. Wieirssex biesisexe .. Freeport............| Armstrong. Wi. WaeetWalsoiiiretes, <5 :°.9 16 | Pittsburgh..........| Alleghany. Ri. W eiserscjaleiae 6\e1-/0,0.91° i Andersville .........| Perry. Prof. W. A. Crawford...) Newark............| New Castle. 4 B.. Wiallcereiee0 a, o\s)0.| DOVer. saicratefacratsls «\< | Kent.
| Prof, WalliamaBaers,scc.0.0 | ary gities | Miss HMusEseaeee, | Sykesville..........| Carroll. Rev. John P. Carter..... | Hagerstown ......-Washington. Henry E. Hanshaw...... | Frederick....... .««.| Frederick. Benj. O. eres oye “4 Blenheim...........| Prince George’s. Prof. Jas. F. Maguire....; New Windsor....-| Carroll. Lieut. R. F. Astrop Soi | Crichton’s Store..... Brunswick.
.| Putnam.
Alexandria.

<<<Page: 317>>>

METEOROLOGICAL Last 2G outinued.
State.
Virginia—Continued .
North Carolina......
South Carolina.....
Georgia... seocesoees
Florida ..
@eteeoesses
AlabaMases © oles cj als/e
We Bio's as 'e's viele
E,OWISIAN Ay. s 0 o)cleleaveioss
TTOxassejste set e100 = sivse
‘Tennessee s. saveneis siete
Kentucky .....ee.0+-/
Wn Osrepereroetaniclcics o70!s
Name of observer. Residence. County. Jed. Hotchkiss..........| Bridgewater......-.| Rockingham. Samuel X. Jackson......) Leesburg........ ..-| Loudon. William 8. Kern..... + ee MEMUNEETSVILIE. <2 25.6 «1 Pocahontas. Charles J. Meriwether.—| Montcalm.......... Albemarle. Ue \ oni binvalrigaiodidnad cee Winchester......... Frederick. A. Nettleton............| Lynchburg .........| Campbell. Thomas Patton .........| Lewisburg..........| Greenbier. Prof. Geo. R. Rosseter . +e "Butialolserieiere cies cio«("E utnan. David Turner...........| Richmond..... «es -| Henrico. Prof. N. B. Webster ....| Portsmouth ........| Norfolk. Rev. Fred. Fitzgerald .. *| PACKSOUE sto eisho sisieieiers Northampton. Dan. Morelle...........| Thornbury .........| Northampton. Prof. Jas. Phillips.......| Chapel Hill.........| Orange. Dr. J. Bryant Smith.....| Lincolnton ......... Lincoln. Thornton Carpenter..... | Camden ...........| Kershaw. Alex? GIENME \ ss ccles'e'e's| WWiACCAMEN 0 bcc © 10 All Saints Parish. A. W. Ravenel......... Aiken ..... Sesclaciea|) Darnwell. Jit As MWOUL e705 si0ie Ponouid MesaCiinienseeavsaec Kershaw. PU RAG AS OM scc0 s, breye's ees Whitemarsh Island..| Chatham. William Haines.. oe} AUG USLA) sie sieve inleieiale Richmond. tage F. Posey... <0... -| SAaVAWMANs .'0\0/c «see «| Chatham. Dr. KE. M. Pendleton ....| Sparta ........e.-+-| Hancock. William CHEM asiciyescs ore Augusta ...........| Richmond. Prof. Wm. D. Williams.} Madison ........ --.| Morgan. Dr. A. 'S. Baldwin......| Jacksonville........| Duval. W: C. Dennis...........+| Key West... sp es Monroe. John Newton.......0... Orange Hill........| Washington. Jolin’ Pearson.......¢..| Pensacola. .ceeecseses| HScambia. Aug. Steele... ........-| Cedar’ Keys.....00-Levy. George Benagh...... -+-| Tuscaloosa ....... --| Tuscaloosa. S. J. Cumming .......3Monroeville ........| Monroe. Prof. John Darby ......./ Auburn..... abides el. Macon. Ben. F. Holley .........| Wetokaville...... -.| Gattzdega. dite Abe MerWebon.. Sas0 | MeMath’s: E., OF -| Tuscaloosa. H. Tutwiler............| Green Springs......| Green. Prof. M. Tuomey .......| Tuscaloosa .........| Tuscaloosa. ACERS Greenis: cus. eisse 6 ale]? DACKSOM Gt sieves Ae .| Jackson. Prog Te Marpetie serps «|, OOF .0..\<,<-s)eajeie sire) Wuatayette. Rev. E. S. Robinson ....| Garlandsville ..<....| Jasper. Wm. Henry Waddell....| Grenada ..........Yalabusha.
Dri EH: Barton 40-62% Prof. WP: Riddel: ....<:
New Orleans...... VAEKSOM <0: oteerecete or
.| Orleans.
St. James Parish.
Prof. L. C. Ervendberg . ew Wied.........-| Comal. VeVi Glennie css. cent > sustin sinus caveysYoo #..| Travis. DrASeikk: Jennings. weges| AUSEIN ...5ceccgmees| Lravis. Dr. ner ae Carv ett. .| Friendship...........| Dyer.
eorge Cooke, -
of L. Griswélag ~«..| Knoxville .o........| Knox. Jas. Higgins.......<s«-.-| Memphis...........| Shelby. Prof. Hamilton. . slandeete of) DTCTICON s:c.sja,0:00 ae s/sje) GAbDSOms Prof. Ben. C. Tilsen: eevers| MuebamOme «messi oy cyeqeiel|, WW TISOne ) M. SLC Wart,... 002 cee Glenwood..........| Montgomery. ProfA. P. Stewart ..... Lebanon .......#6.| Wilson. Obesity .2,.......-| Danville so 08» ae Boyle.
EG Berthoud ........
Rev. J. Miller,
Ree Gis: re oe GaRyee ee ec ecloee
Oe John Swain.........
J DeSean ccrcn 2 cictc
Mrs. Lawrence Young... Prof. J. W. Andrews...
Prof. G. M. Barber......) B
R. S. Bosworth......... F. A. Benton.
Mis. Doc. 24———4.
«| Maysville cis. a.s.s'esere-
Millersburg.......-
Parisiares.avciagasers cieiaisie Ballardsville........ Lexington...-+.0...Springdale .. Bae ol VEATIOUC Ee afelel « elalspstors CT CA escheat aes: s7
College PHD Se oka ok | Mount Vernon....--
Mason. Bourbon.
Bourbon. Oldham. Fayette. Jefferson. Washington. Cuyahoga, Hamilton, Knox.

<<<Page: 318>>>

METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.
State.
Name of observer.
Residence.
Ohio—Continued....| Geo. L. Crookham......
Michigan... ..scesees
Indiana asters osteo
NIUNTOIS', Sctere chetuereveretene
Missouri. «0:00 ete Meye.o.s
TO Wiiiiieyeloleverste rere nialers
Wisconsin. i's or
Miss Ardelia Cunningham Jacob N. Desellem...... Lewis M. Dayton....... Nod ine denne mile aos Seno er L. Groneweg....scoces G. A. Hyde ...ccccscees EF Hollenbeck ccaicscrsterst evere Dr. J. G. F. Holston... BW A artiti. ei. ecie. aes Dr. John Ingram........ Dr. J. P. Kirtland G. W. Livezay.. Jom UKenS fe) a sisi. <0 J. McD. Mathews....... Gi SROrmsby: 5 .ciesere steve Prof. 'S. N. Sanford...... Robert Shields... sce. E. Spooner.. e}eieie/e Edmund West ....eceeWilliam Campbeil....... Alfred E. Currier......«. Rev. Geo. Duffield...... Dr. S F. Mitchell....... Capt. A.D: Perkins..... EL Schetterly:. coir. ose TARE Stren Gh. jatete! 50's sisters Me pS UTA Pel etalate a) syarsi 0.6% Dee Savors sieis:e « Miss Octavia C. Walker. Dr. Thomas Bey: Lorin Woodruff... A. Winchell.
eee cere cees
WW 2 Wi Austin ie: esse c-0.0 e| EUCRIMONG. 6,0 ¢ esau Ci Barnes,. siskec Slelejsic%e «.<| AGISOM: .eyolcrecsiee IAG EL Bixby eis es aeseeve vers Lafayette..... pieielaimte
Je Chappelenitil: seis }oys.< W. B. Coventry..
Dr Ve Kerseys.s.sc... Jp eRRUBUCTs)s eiejesscioieiers o «16 EL gE CLOTS es wie atelssielelsjs/ehers DE RODeETES:. cijeieies 0a; Prof. Joseph Tingley ..
.| Kendallville. . .| Milton .
'Profo WW? 'Coftinitss ace cae WAG. Hdgerly\... cece « John Grant.. WoolBElpilis werces,crcicie a6 oka Dr.. JiyA® Harris:., tecee Dr. John James. Dr. S. B. Mead. Fred. (BeHme6r. s.ciccesss
Jackson, (OR 5 eee
Unionvilletsceuns sa. RiCWMNONG sos etersic: sions ING Waris, 6 craieccs wretebene Oberlin siererayecesletniorsys Germantown .. Norwalk .. Perrysburg ...... oeie ZANCSVAME, «jc 10 9,075 9,016 Cincinnati... SS AVAEIMGIN cele iejeninisiere East Rockport...... Gallipolis; <eesje:s Aaneshield:. visi ese« s-0xe ITS bOTOg ateicie'eeyevera ie Collere FIIs. 5. os)Granyilles aiisicreraisersie Bellcentres cveteieieate.r¢ Ree in ce iacelavetieres 6 aie FRU TON ie eis cererene ayakers Battle Creelese scs-c 0 Grand Rapids....... DEtrOtfisera exsverscietrerers East Saginaw....... Monroe..... selovoleyers Grand Traverse..... SaU Patches cose aicsesers
eevee eee
Dt UaMESy si siete clerencte Brookilivnis s/aselaersistc Cooper..... stosiorais axe 5 | MESPGS Es etre epat eve ote: cote Ann Arbor
Ann Arbor.
New Harmony...... Kendallville........ Lafayette..... Meare New Garden........ .| Greencastle......... IBALAVila eveis\ekatesvoreie ase Granville <cyeieens oiccare Manchester. 5. os. cai PNTHOHS ch eyelclelens «ioc OPE so 's)0 860 6 dace
Ja La Salle.
County.
| Jackson. Lake. Jefferson. Licking. Loraine. és Montgomery. Huron. Wood. Muskingum. Hamilton. Ashland. Cuyahoga. Gallia. Logan. Highland. Hamilton. Licking. Logan. Coshocton. Erie. Calhoun. Kent. Wayne. Saginaw. Monroe. Michilimackinae. Alleghany. Michilimackinac. Jackson. Kalmazoo. Monroe.
Washtenaw.
.| Wayne. .| Jefferson.
Tippecanoe. Posey. Noble. Wayne. Noble.
..| Tippecanoe.
Wayne. Putnam. Kane.
Putnam.
Upper Alton........| Madison.
‘Augusta.........+..| Hancock.
Fort Pierre..
eeeeee
| St. Louis... . dean a lee Louis.
Dr. Engelmann........
Qe Pe Wear’... icc At erels Diy Rides, Marion. Miss,Ida E. Ball....... Keokuk ............| Lee.
KE. C. Bidwell..... -.-.-.| Quasqueton .........| Buchanan. Dri Asa Horr’... s/cieje0 oe «|| UDUGUBL s.<10. 5 +e.e-.| Dubuque. Daniel McCready .......| Fort Madison.......] Lee. Benjamin F. Odell......| Poultney ......... ..| Delaware. Rev. Joshua Phelps......} Alexander College...) Dubuque. Be Ge Parvin... 6% s510 s+ 0.2] NIUSCATINE «\o.h00 le ee Mseatine:
E. H. A. Scheeper...... Miss M. E. Baker.. Thomas Gay........ L. A. Taphen SHHis oonioe Prof. S. P P. Lathrop.. Raley
eeece
aisiete’seiotele aro
Ceresca.s:s\e)s 2 a0 ce ee Fond du Lac.
.| Belle Fontaine......| Marquette.
Milwaukie....... ...| Milwaukie. Beloits jarani enter oevOck-

<<<Page: 319>>>

State.
| | | | ‘Wisconsin—Contin’d. | | | | |
Name of observer.
LIST—Continued.
Residence.
County.
G. F. Livingston........| Hudson .........-..| St. Croix. Dre Je Pickard <:\./.. s\tblatteville.'s)\2)s4'. sl) Grant, J. McQuigg ....cs..5E : W. eee a Beloit ciejocelateiasielseis 7+ EROCK. S: H.-Carpenter......).)s% : JW. Sterlivin.. stipe Madison..........-.| Dane. | Edward 8. Spencer. sooes] SUMMIt ....0.06....| Waukesha. 1 J.Fo Willard sso. 4500.08|\ Janesville is) .0% «| Rock. | Carl Winkler’. < .,. 2.13... .-| Milwaukie.......... Milwaukie. Minnesota........... |C. F. Anderson....... .| St. Anthony’s Falls .| Ramsey. | Rev. Elisha W. Carver. .| Red Lake..........| Pembina. } Ad Oy) Kelli... 0s '.s.0s/4() St) Sosephit. 3.\.425 +. Pembina. Rev. S. W. Ee aceves si: PortiRapleryisicieis sieeve « iS. R.& A. L. Riggs.....} Lac qui parle .......| Dahkota. | David B. Spencer dejelelai ove Db JOSEP He sietsts cn sie Ommbina. California...........| Dr. H. Gibbons.........| San Francisco.......| San Francisco. Dr. F. W. Hatch........| Sacramento.........| Sacramento. | Rev. J. A. Shepherd.....} San Francisco.......| San Francisco. WNebraskaijesisiscciees os | Di: Ey Reed... 5.8 seria evel elleviewisces stators Paraguay .......-.-.| E. A. Hopkins..........! Ascension ......+.+.
Meteorological observers—New York University system.
Name. Residence. County. M. R. Batchelder........... Fredonia ...0eeee+eeee+ese| Chautauque. John N. Brinkerhoff..... .-.| Union Hall, Jamaica........| Queen’s. Prof. Chester Dewey..... s'eo| Rochester ..oeceeseesesese es] Monroe. John Felt, jr... ..+cccelees es) LIDETLY.»00cccrcesccseseeee ol SUllivan: W. H. Gillespie ...... ooees| Mexico....e.seeee alsstalete ---| Oswego. feat, Harte). oo)... 260s e »'s| Hmiva .. 6. seeececerceceees| Chemung.
JOHDEE Tenkkinse cis a! steetee'e Mrs. M. T. Lobdell...... A. W. Morehouse.....
-| North Salem .. .| Spencertown .. é| Institute for Deaf ae Durab:
White Plains ...... Ferris
-| Westchester.
Westchester. ©
-| Columbia.
Prof. O..W,. “Morrisy.i1. (0° New York city.
Prof. David Murray ........ NIDA, 013.0: ais corersteiore ls Broristetets Albany.
Bidw:'©o Reed ti ceivare o/s cies | ELOLMOT 4, 's.010' a0) svetsleies cis oie. c1s|¢ OOLtLaNM,
Prof OM ROO ys oe: nerccisietes (al CLINLON.s1eie)0/siceissicieldeleveies o/so (Neda,
J. O. Stratton...... sfelehoisia ste ORO rclelatersc ele cristae ataeialele Chenango.
JOS. Wi.) Laylorssstelatsireicteloie| Grates ULL. «,clsee.m\srslestoielslars,o\e Clinton.
Rev. Re D., Vani Mleekye aie sa Hat bush). s/scl ev ¢.6 e anicrslelats | King’s. Geneva. o/s Sleveve eines se sclee | Ontario.
Prof. W.. D. Wilsomije,. 0 s/./<

<<<Page: 320>>>

Name. Residence. State. Adams, Warren P.....+-2+-| Glen’s Falls........0s..+0| New York. Alba, E. MM: .%' epptetereescece] Angelica .co000srecee cre «+e.| New York. . Allen, Edw. A. H........++| Troy ...06Bre teieisiessie ce ae ee Allin, Luciuss@rterecsleeceie Sptinstield AAR sae Ar CA eee aes Massachusetts. Anderson, (CEU Teselelesepatevelexe ate St. Anthony’s Falls. eeeeeess| Minnesota. Andrews, Prof. OPW ccs -| Marietta ........-se0e05 ete eis Onio: Arden, Thos: Bitte 2/20 vie.<s)0)0:« ) Beverly «23+ 0. si flsleebeietee sieve) INGW? VOL, Astrop, Lieut. TAGE dials ..| Crichton’s store.,.......+--.| Virginia. | Austin, Wie Winsrerelere: onvefe'o,0:0l MRICHMONGS sfelefoles cya) sicleo ls oe cle] Indiana’
Avery, Chas. A..ceeesecees
Bacon, Wm .fersiteme'eetie aishans Baer, Miss is Minioe:s sotsveuuels Baer, Prof. Wim-hiee Heeood Baker, Miss M. E.......oe
Baldwin, Dr. Al Sy 08 0
Ball, Miss Ida E..... seieysusiert Barber, Prof. G. M Barnes, C Barrows, Geo. B Bartlett, Joshua. sci s!se'e% Barton, Dr. BE. H........2..| Batchelder, M. R....... sacl Beatty, O Belair eH c.aie, sievessisis or elevers Bell, John J ...\s.0:s¢. 3/0 Bell, Samuel N Benagh, George...s.....00. Benton, F. A... cieeeect eve Berthoud 3) tis eeen Bidwell; EK. Cs wees Bixby, A. Hoss:
Blodget, Dr. A CG) canes
wees ereee ee ee sree
eoeeeee,
Blodget, WiALO): siei0 ahporebaaners Bloodgood, S. De Witt..... Bosworth, Re 'S chtestststctetereys Bowman, John... \.\.::.j.\evnmiste Breed, J. Everett:....... Brinkerhoff, John N........ Brooks, Jones «cosets elolalpte'e|
Brown, Samuel..... Buckland, D.
y Maysville .......
eosseecene
Seneca Falls...
New York.
Richmond. ......seseeess+-| Massachusetts. | Sykesville....... soeceeceee-| Maryland. Sykesville..... soecesceeeeee) Maryland. Gereseaiy..<istes's's witbeoe% Sretieiele --| Wisconsin.Jacksonville. ft scone owicoace| deloridas
| AeplenkieGils oan eeseieee cl Bower Bereasiciie-t'stie cite ie Secletes velriere| HONIG:
-/ Madison....... Sg & selole ts Yovslove ..| Indiana.
| Bryeburg sicios cece sles. 000} Maine:
| South Thomaston.........-Maine: News Orleans’. <<. c0c 6 select Louisiana.
Fredonia .. [Damivable coset. feteresie ee leves Fort Pierre.. Carmel .
Wimchectert | Tuscaloosa . :| Mount Vernon. ...es.seecees
eee sere eee eree
ee ee
see weer eee eee eee
-| New York.| Kentucky.
Missouri. Maine.
-| New Hampshire.
Alabama. Ohio.
-| Kentucky.
+ Quasqueton......2.2. siesielers .| lowa.Lafayette.. Sereloleceisiejere ain MInGtaTi a .| Youngsville. BO OC aoleselesrertoters Pennsylvania.
, Sugar GOVE R</ise oeeeee| Pennsylvania. New York..... ADA S oc SHE -.| New York. A College Hills... si ss\ec'e © se s\e12| Ohio: t. Baldwinsville ......2.++++-+.| New York.
aOR Y ULC a/siasstorsse'a'a opel slere ai Union Hall, Jamaica. . ais\elete | Princeton..
New York.
.| New York.
Massachusetts.
| id nica orcs 1 Bedford <2: 4. /0'%e o.c.cj00 --| Pennsylvania. pram COs 4:5, sigtasis(eisisistsersyersietets Vermont.
Byram, Bis IN co enetox eueecooes! Sag Harbor.. ecoccrarsr seats New York, Campbell, Wim. .<2.%3s'esena | Battle Creek. ...seeeeeeess) Michigan. Carpenter, S.-H. ...0 o.0ss Sa tt MVIEGISON ck cower o keer BOO COOL Wisconsin. Carpenter, Thornton ..< ss deiiWamaden...cc.0,0e et South Carolina. Carter, Rev. Jno. Px ..i0tsh Hagerstown . > Stizics sits ci. +6 Maryland. Carver;*Rev. BE. W.. soe: Red Lake: :... REO. cc. Minnesota. Carver, Dr. Robt. T....... 2's. Friendship. 2...0 s/s. eee as eeclod ennesse, Caswell; Prof. A sTRe sees 23 Providenee Sele sunvelausienneratess Rhode Island Chadbourne, Prof. P, A.....| Williamstown.......+«+-.+-| Massachusetts. Chandler, Dr. George...... Worcester. .......eeeee0e+e+| Massachusetts. Chappelsmith, John... «60's! New Harmony.........+«++.| Indiana. Chase, C. Thurston......... Chatham ...... soccecssccees| New York. Comins, Wro8s SW 4). e.cie esi crcicte:e Batavia. stisceclos ete «6600 «e%| hifois.
Colby, Jas. K.............. St. Johnsbury... o's isleiefs eseishe\s «(ls VELINONE Comly, John ...cicceesse uss ) Byberry....<.2 5042s. esos eee) Pennsylvania. Conant, Marshal ........... | Bridsewater’ 5... sss cnerurs Massachusetts. Cooke, George...cce.ccees PAnoxville .> « Sivcss, of eeetesiaienal Tennessee. Cooke, Robert L...... sees! Bloomfields... 5 crocs ce eeeceee| New Jersey. Cook, Prof. George H......| New oe: seeccerceees| New Jersey. Couch, Samuel...+..s.++++| Ashland . ceccescececes| Virginia. Coventry, W. Be iateieas vee MUAH ean ralsett'e the vv occa. entnieton New York.
Crawford, Prof. W. A...<<2
..| Delaware.

<<<Page: 321>>>

METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.
Mopking, BW. Ayes pice Se os
Name. Residence. State. Crookham, George L....... Jackson ...... sfaslerielslerelesrevaie| ONO. Cumming, S. J.........+..+.| Monroeville......... oeeeee-| Alabama. Cunningham, Miss A.......| Unionville ....ces.eesseeees Ohio. Currier, Alfred E...........| Grand Rapids.............-| Michigan. Dana’ Walliam WD. 22 sie ieharaia\s|p CULY:« ia/feie%estoholelavaniate, eeroteys -.| Maine. Darby,' Prof. Johmsas. te J ee1-|/ AUDUIN scarce a cielsieeie seco esyel=| Alabama Darlington, Fenelon........ Pocopson........ SOU CCIOT Pennsylvania. Davis, Emerson.........-..| Westfield......... eeeesee ees! Massachusetts. Daytons HH. A. ./.jisssarers wie/are lt NIB ATIG= (5 5 o:0;0'0 ayenuaerehmenie --+-| New York. Dayton, Lewis M... .2s0..2.| Newark os 02. 6s os ease «+ «+| Ohio. Deering, D.S......-2s06 ests LOOK VIIIE., aie acre olseicteteisisiete.ei= Pennsylvania. Wennisty Wi.) Csjeicieie savetelee cot Key West .......20. sreclaiets oh Florida. Desellem, Jacob N.......... Richmond’;.:.:.3.ver ADCS Ohio. Dewey, Professor Chester....| Rochester ........se.eeese0s New York. Duffield, Rev. George....... DCE Olt cfereterelen sielolatalevelaetoiets Michigan. Rdgerly, Es. 'Givcesejeeles ose Granville...... aAlavahatel steve senate Illinois. Edwards, Joseph... .,....-.---| Chromedale.......... ++ eee] Pennsylvania. Hdward's, Reva Woctesecsies os New: Londons weicis Secscieles eels Connecticut. Hngelmann, Wrst esisisicvere lbs LiCUIS\a0/e,0/steres/ste Gielen’ oc ere ihe Missouri. Ervendburg, Prof. L.C...... News Wieds-.tieis.-teletaters'a.s.< of Texas. Eveleth, Samuel A.......... Windham..... we otetesete jelsievea |) Nanrre: Kyler, Rey: Diydieec eiere sles of|b VV Gy MOSDOLO® .<Misreleteciolsls'y. eyeie Pennsylvania. Fairbanks, J. P...0.5. 00.0524) St. Johnsbury... .. 2. 6+ «| Vermont. Fairchild, J. Hes 33 sieven'e shel ODEL UTI ery 5% suevel vies sishare ahs sisysjere|’ Ohios Melt -Johniiej 3/5: shesls: elesoletele efe|| Ml DCL VArssatotelcratetes'e levees ate eset News OTK: Fitzgerald, Rev. F.......... Jackson. 0. oecees oceeceseees| North Carolina. Mrost; Rey. Aj. <iejeWerlcs es Burling tonis..i.cisic/ere's\e'slen ore --+| New Jersey. Gay, Thomas........... ---| Bellefontaine ....... Melerare sieve Wisconsin. Gibbons, Dr. H............|-San Francisco ....s:0.<+.+++| California. GIDDONS HDS aalelercvarcterdeleroles WING WW XlODe\o. clorelotetedareieialer tential New York. Gibsons Fa Diss, «21s o)o= teveeveclaleNVnitemarsh: [slandsaeterese nis Georgia.
SGI OTC! WER EXsy evolele slate el eetevars Wroods\Hole:.j.-.:.ctenewes --| Massachusetts. Gillespie.) Ws Elisierscs =, celete!s\a!s INTO RICO: se yosa: aot se ss Siaists aves ate siete New York. Glennie, Alexander......... IW Wiaccamani: «4 sss <0 slelesclere -.| South Carolina. lenny J., Wiisetaatereatacne 0.4 ATISUINY.roverarensinee crete ates «ae Texas.
Goldy cb . Sees 3 o eve eee e|W est Cornwall... ss... «s+ Oonnecticut: Grant; JON sess seco oe see} Manchester... 05.6.0 P Bares Mlinois. Greens ASR aeoe as eo actecls Jalelssom).-.<:se Salers oe ateve -....| Mississippi. Griswold, Prof.(Wissi:\<..0%» « si PAMORVIUN Cs. ' eatectorets Seaterei seis Tennessee. Groneweg, L...............| Germantown ........ eee! Ohio.
Guest; Ws Hc \cjsten. cies sre |) Opdensburpcteteectajosaees -.-.| New York. Haines, Willian. e se clas s's)ol, AUPUSEA\ «icenreiajes owe eieaialeve ci Georgia. Hall; Joel.s..: ol ajoatetcrereh vets sc CACHENIShac-abelatarsevete’s cele Serosee -»| [linois. Hallowell, Benjamin........ Alexandridieae«c\s esses aloiie Virginia. Hamilton, Professomvegee seu) Prenton. tcsr oldies st ele vee cae al: Dennessee: Hance, Ebenezer ........... Morrisville :stere! torete’ate sae --.-| Pennsylvania. Hanshaw, Henry Benseteeie | Predericks'. . &,.:</s0i cele ssn o's Maryland. Harper, Prof. Lis.(\eeseee ae Oxtordrs «/s\s.s SHanonodcOotbe Mississippi Harris: Dr: Js" OVS Ottaware ecee ee iisicrs sion MLLENOISs
Hart; dra. PF. 6.3.2 Pilimaivatyns sci ever wetetarelar sir oralsye New York
Ls bitin tl 8 IBIS ROBIN c slaleele ciel OSWELO iois\ese'e's © eheleteistelebele .--| New York. Hatch, Dr. FP. Wic\sitveee wee sacratnento .sisecverssta tee aa ath California. Heisley, John.......220..%.| Harrisburg ....5<) seeeseeee.| Pennsylvania. Higsins, James... ciceaaciee -| Memphis..............+++e.| Tennessee. opps OUT .oisosy so aleslelelev el PEMATIGOIDI cicrersicrc|o ele Beraictelersioita Pennsylvania. Holeomb, Amasa.<.. <i... 3% Nowbhiwicless sia setiee eee wats Massachusetts Hollenbeck, F........ eve e se] POMYSDULE ..:0'0000s seen s vs of: Ohio.
TD Mey seein Boscia ae ats sie ene MVIELO lochwal Leicidis.cieter orale soe .....-| Alabama. Moles sD. Js seek. Williamstown ..........+--.| Massachusetts Holstony) Dr. J\ Gabe. kis ol amesvilloccs da tcsartonte as scl Ohio.
Ascension .. Paraguay.
Ce ee ee

<<<Page: 322>>>

METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.
Name.
Residence.
State.
Horr, Dr. Asa....... Hidtchkiss, ed yanieremisioade s aievs House, J. Carroll...... Hughes, John.......-e0. Hunt, D Hunt, Dr. S.B
Ingram, Dr. John......... i
Jackson, Samuel X......... Jacobs, M James, Dr Johisate sievereecte als Jenkins; J.P sc sejsyes Jennings, DDS jeter siersicte Jillson, Professor B. C...... Johnson, His DW Wastielateveiasiavaretats Johnston, Professor Te: ats
eoeeee eeeeeeee
Helluina, O:cA ci eieracisialeateters Kersey, Dr. Woneanicdadco ode Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A...... Karkland, Dr.2d: Pies. Knauer, RRR Pe a
Tdangdon, Li. Arse sisjeisis 00.070 0:0 HGapham, \T.. Aiseie.c\ais\s\e\ sete) ste Acathrop, Profs SocPhs siessrsrers Wear, ©. H. Ps. Lee, Charles A.. Lefferts, John....... statatelets Leonard, Rev. L. W....<.> Dive zaiy: Gis Wiser eperesialol etal Divingstom, (Gai Ze.ciclessaisishaiale Lobdell, Mrs. Mary J....... Lowndes, BAO® jo stencs cares Diowries) Ji Ei stesic's tecistelelantels Lukens, John “Peisiyserar oetetate
Mack, Bi: Tsco.evelsfosotseutoariete Mack, Re C.. scieeatsheacete
coor er ere eeee
-| White Plains .
Blenheim.. .| Warrior’s Mark: .....
-| Londonderry
PDUDUQUE 5% 60 s\e cn ers we vicselcietsls Bridgewater ...... Lowville Pottsville .... Pomfret. .
a eee eee ee eer ee ee sere eeeee eeeeees
Savanna o. eeiebises
Leesburg .... Gettysburg. c/.\\.'s eissstelee sletele Upper Alton. .
Austinis at eiens Lebanon... Canton ois vepetaefarprenetae lets Wid dle towan;s) «eicteloreve Me revetevenels
Sty Josephis’s a. csereretevenstelete Miltonteara.%. aia Nelaleseees se Philadelphia ss Asisisteereveveiets gts East Rockport... Kendallville
eee reoe eaten sees
al CONE yatelatoie:e) ciel siseclabelstokencueye Milnes sisi sie crerepere torches
Bel Outs. 375 cise \aley.e eliete retest svete BIgD Dry Ridge... cssessssccbeue
Beekkshkillil ate 2.0 sersdovers costes WOU ic /oisioi'e(ois'w lage enu xetora Siok tlotevene
EXCEL a ctele.s,eu:s aaidapaneke Gallipolis} eisjcjeo feelers ELI SO 1.2) cies ocieia etoie alele cre’ Salem Centre....ee.
eeeeeees eee eee ee are
ZANESVILLE: aieleieiesiowloc seveleteteys
New Brunswick...
eoeeeeeraes
Maguire, Prof. Jc Bye ihieae New Windsor .isisee.ccccees Malcom, Captain W. S.....| Oswego...eserescseccesee Manchester, George..... -+| Portsmouth........ sends se Marsh, Charles A. J..... Phe) MMOLATESDULY, 0s oie cteters elaye.s Taran, cd) W siatecere cistereyas ...| Winchester..... Veieietetecterers A
Mauncey, ae SAN AIRE
Fort Ripley s.seeesecueeeee
weer ee ee eeees)
«| CAN CINNAL sche eisai’ cisrersis Mea ode| .| Norwalk
-| lowa. Virginia.
New York. Pennsylvania. Connecticut. New York. Ohio. . Ohio.
.| Ohio.
| | Virginia.
Pennsylvania. Illinois.
.| New York.| Texas. .| Tennessee.
New York. Connecticut.
-| Minnesota.
Indiana. Pennsylvania.
--| Ohio.
Indiana.
New York.
.| Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
.| Missouri.
New York.
New York.
New Hampshire. Ohio.
.| Wisconsin.
New York.
-| Maryland.
Pennsylvania. Ohio.
New Jersey. New Hampshire Maryland.
..| New York.
| Rhode Island. .| Vermont.
. Virginia.
Minnesota.
Matthews, J. McD.........2..| Hlillsboro’’.'. oes cv seguitieles's + «| Ohio. McCready. Ds, tags, <0 <:sis0) sets Hort Madison, <racrestetetere .-.| lowa. McQuigg, J........ sfexehorsorete Beloitay sits saturercecs Soiiesle c's «|, Wisconsin. Moai; (Or. /S.) Boj. eaiececslaie asl AUODSTD oissele 5 smal ammeter ie ae | Hlinois. Meriwether, Charles, J. .52...|, Montcalm »'. 0... sce dele bee os Virginia. Meriwether, R. T........%.| McMath’s. . ds /sdisiesiscts o> «|, Alabama: Merl, Rev. S.ybles sc56./<|, Blebilll:: oh, oaleercetera seve .-..| Maine. Metealts(Dr:\ 3: Gusti etait. Mendon: /sjs0i wearers seceeee, | Massachusetts. Miller, (Rey. Diersieteissde »e-.| Millersburg..... sideto adie’ .-.| Kentucky. Mitchell Or SiG tielsteieies s)2 | East Saginaw.........+....-, Michigan. Mitchell, Hon. Wm......... | Nantucket....... ceec ieee es s|, Viassachusetts. Morehouse, A. W..........| Spencertown...... o aeiss sieve a, New Yorks Morelle, Do So. choe'. cuabiaesl. LOTRDUDY,. «5 0/0 < siavelerelefele ....| North Carolina. Morris, Prof.'O. Wisineauuins|, NEW. YORK. «). se os Leb elee ech NeWEMorks, Munger, Ii. Wadeiesemetiec|: 1s, ROY’s,0\e a\0 seen: slelocie’s Gelb ce LNCNtp Ries
Murray, Prof. David's swienees Mussey, R. D... «.ciimpraiuipate ve
AID aMly,s's\0\ 5, 2:0)050 essyeleiotctetalel Rockport...
eve eeer |
New York. Massachusetts.

<<<Page: 323>>>

METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.
Name.
Nettleton, A ..2.cccccceoces Newton, Jn0,..cccccsccccees Newton, W. H.. Odell ABBY sleis/eiejew oleioinlactera« Ormsby, J. Siecieieiscrcisioe Ortonsy Jase te! si1c< cis 315 6
Paddock, Jas. A IPatRKeryy dl. We se 016: esl) sjelseieie)« Parvin, T.S... Patton, Thos.. PEAEOM (110). oreKeye eieleseveseievere] s Pendleton, Dr. E. M........ Perkins, Capt. A.-D........ Perksins srk Cit. eels /esi00)Peters, H Phelps, Rev. Joshua... Phillips, Prof. Jas\.. s/s 2,0ssa0/ Pickard, Wr. Te Wissesverelaererste Pilumbe, Dr. OVIG' sicj0)50 c10)< Poole, Henry ..;..0isiajalare iss aiete POTEET, EV Vir! siolotae acjatenercleoterel« Posey, John Hi.) cie:sereteielejoveleys Powel, Sam’l.. Pratt, Prot), Is cisjeselescustarets Prescott, Dr. Wm
Ralston, Rev: Ji Giese. ce,s a) Rankin, James..\... :6,«,<0.0 0:0 \« Ravenel vel. WW sie leloeisaciajatels EU aLy si lrd Gis s'e'e!e'e aefa jain olnjatsysl IRGee] Dl Wecoetor Brno CO Reed, Pewee Co gscine 3h: Rice, Henry ..... Riddle, Professor W. P.. siete’ ' Riggs, S. R. and A. L...... Robbins, Dr. James......... Robinson, Rev. E. S........ Rodman, Samuel.. Root, Professor Oi} ./..6:se0% 6 Rosseter, Professor Geo. R..
Or ey
coe ete ee seeee
Salisbury, Elias O.......... ‘Sanford, Professor S. N..... Sartwells Dr. He Beaicn «cise e Savage, Rev. G.S.......... Sawyer, George B.. otere Sawyer, Henry E........... Scheeper, E. H. A.. sSchetterly, Hi. Peeiteresiatecteles schierel, Alberts :creleijacelemsere Schley, William... Schreiner, Francis coLctch oVs)ee Jie D Jepaenerey siclanaltentctsts Sheldon, Henry ‘C.. ee ‘Shepherd, Reeve iJis, Av cnparatchate Shields; Robert ..s:0. asjasiste skeens! William. s/<«,eilssieaters Smallwood, Dr. Charles..... SathyWOrs By. A. wai aa see) ofels Smith, Dre J: Dey ent owt sees Smith, Des TW Smyser, DEE ET shove iaresecievsvoters| Snell, Professor E. Sie
eect ete es
Residence.
State.
-| North Attleboro’..
-| Augusta .....eese Bo easecte| Moss Grove. ..ee
East Mevaieal soe}, ; i a . ae PU SPEED soa e ves « * sielesleisjevee| Amherst...... ateclalehavecst\aleraders
Spencer, Dawid’. .).'eje/s\0s o/s «|
ee eeteeresssece
Lynchburg... Orange Hill........ Fond du Lac......... Poultney..... College Hill... Williamstown..
eoeeoes
eer eso eeeaeaeee
eee essere seees
Craftsbury. ...... Steuben IMiuscatines sss sieec's se Lewisburg. ....... Pensacola .....+. : Sparta.. Monroe... Newburyport. .s.ccsescesee Wiafayette.s)c\e:s.0 «s:0\0/0\ejeni<cleiere Alexander College........ 3 Chapel Hill... Rlattsvilllere love core <tsispers se pisieneters Salisbury IAT Dion WINES ke.c.cls-e.0is.0:s}setese 4 Belo tsisfercce es eveioletssieve:eypie'ssa.e's Savannah. Newport....eeeee. Fredonia... «0,0 0 sConcord irsteierescretersiwarccorecusiee
eeeesecsees
eee ee er eesee
eee eer ese eresr coe er
seen eee ee eseeesseas
eseeeeesece
eeeveee
INOLTISEOWM ses c/slaceqsve e e.ce tale Saybrook... .eccsccecscccces Aiken... IPaTISssc.s.6 mia sketate Rtoptolarenaieiotate Belleview .. Homer
eee etree sees eoseses
Jackson. <'«' nie savaterciepacketenerers| Lac qui Parle.... Uxbridge........ aersiciatals Garlandsville.. New Bedford... Wit POM reveleleves stsletecsovereresiecie Buffalo...
Buffalo.. Granville.. IBGNMIMY all. ktatesclespeereve) coiakovere © Millersburg... ..cssceccceeee Salmon Falls.. Great) Pallsitcictcvasne Pella.... Grand Traverse.. Taunton...
ee ee) eeee! eee eee seer ees eee eee eeserees
wee te eee eseeeesece
eee eee ee oss eeaee
eeeeeseeene eeseaeeoe eoorere eee eees esr eeeat eeeeeeseees eee esr ese oereeoee
Lexington... 2.0.0. se eeceees North! Scituate < 06: sis'eseneiere Saniob ramisco's e's are eayevaceceee c Bellecentre.......ee. Huntersville....... EMAL Ss sie\siesevereie aves. ele & Worcester... Lincolnton...
feoeeeseee
e@aeertr ee eocer eee
SE JOSephist's:. e006
Virginia. Florida.
-| Minnesota.| lowa.
Ohio. Massachusetts
Vermont.
-| Maine.| Iowa.
Virginia. Florida. Georgia. Michigan. Massachusetts. Indiana.
Towa.
North Carolina. Wisconsin. Connecticut. Nova Scotia. Wisconsin.
-| Georgia.
.| Rhode Island.
New York. New Hampshire.
Pennsylvania. Connecticut.
South Carolina. Kentucky. Nebraska Territory.
-| New York.
Massachusetts. Louisiana. Minnesota. Massachusetts. Mississippi. Massachusetts. New York. Virginia.
New York. Ohio.
New York. New York.
.-| New Hampshire.
New Hampshire. Towa. Michigan. Massachusetts. Georgia. Pennsylvania. Kentucky. Rhode Island. California. Ohio.
Virginia. Canada. Massachusetts. North Carolina. New York. Pennsylvania. Massachusetts. Minnesota.

<<<Page: 324>>>

METEOROLOGICAL LIST—Continued.
Name.
Residence.
State.
Spencer, Edward S......... Spooner.) atielatede sieisiacic ic Spooner, Stillman.......... Steele, Augustus............ Sterling Ie Wiss sis\s'ess/e/0/0'0 Stevernse Or: MUP. wiesesiere « Stewart, Prof. A. Pe. siesens « Siewanls Wid s.c. clecssievete oe DUAN Ds; Tiel onie'ee, sintels siecle ss Stratton, J.\O.. Strong, L. H... UTE, ELEY. Li. Eds ssisicleelsleye Stuart, Als P. Sec. s.bisle-ete sicets Swain, Dr. John. Swift, Paul.
eee ee eres
sco eee ree esse eee
Taylor, JOs. Wrecetese cesses Maylor, Drs KG sess erste Thickstun, T.. : Thompson, Zadock ......... Tingley, Prof. Jasiscte:0'stersje'-\« Tuomey, Prof. M2 5.. ss. Tarner, Davidse: g42s0 ser 2» Tutwiler;) Hessians soe eset:
Underwood, D..
Van Kleek, Rey. R. D....
+] Weampsville .. 3.05. sisewiesiens| Florida. .| Madison......
«| Lebanon. <s'e. +e
Al St. “do DIMER syelele: stom/aletaia eoiaieterse
o} Ballardsville. cjc:s\o\cwiciers
..| Brooklyn.. .| Meadville
SiH Wal tl USHih ietersllete toteteletoneter stones
SUMMA tis in stole oc eveheloveieteiewiates NG OTU se lcleveiel cere aialeiel eiekceatelel eke Cedar Keys...ceseccscvers
Ceres’. jars ieishes Greenwood...
Oxfordieert. Rlanieiens a tejsvonalerevets a Saugatuck... Wlatbushteetersies eters Wolfville..
Haverford .
Platisburg. . sees ceee
BurlingtOnts c/s ste\elostoleieler sets Greencastle... Puscaloosays(.’. cos FRIGHIN ONG! iors cide eraiatetereictars ale GLEE PS PTINIGs\e's/e)ajelerele|alays(ls
eee ere eee eerees
WASTIELONM rors te tlowte cise cteretele, ste
Waddell, Wim Hc). weenie ehe Grenada ....... Siataloretetevetatats Walker, ‘Miss’ Octavia, ©2i2y.)\sCoopen. aicielele'cs soe clesiorcleleis! ate Walker, Jt iP ssigisrece iomeiners Dover cds iticcceteisicicies AnBa Gor
Webster, Prof. N. B.... Weir, A. Di... ...
a OLESMOUED ec cle cies
Freeport ..
Weiser, Reece cere etek WAtndersville:. -stete' aise creer ole Wrest; Edmund :.)..<ve 2.5 Bias CHAITIN, otste & valetole ete'scers slcve wale Whelpley, Dr. Thos........| Brest......... wolsne oreiettore Whitehead; WitAy a. cscs aia Newark...... steleiseie’sioialsisietels Willard) Seis. e actecesnrelete 2 «| Dameswalle: Aeteyetores oles ole’ sete-Wictehs Walliams; P.' Onier acute: Gouverneur.....-.+. aefelataters Williams, Prof. W. D....... Ma disOny sisis custeei cleiece Wilson, Prof. W. D........ GeENneVale cocci eee cece Hounadoass SWiallsons Wis Wissjertoajssntteterta| -EAUtSDUTO" scale isietrotoel sisters Seyeiet> WranchiellA\.....3..ceaee Sea RICATIN ATDOD sc isle «siacherersie (Winklers(Garll.)..cScmteciectoe Milwaukie’ 4 s.celelesetste eciecys WWroodimift, Tum .iasescancve ste siete WA it ATDOE sleie stelealerererectersia (ere Woodward ©2i8.55 sictesccersts| Beaver Brook..........«AAG Males iWeaiter, Dis. siesccicseis]| LOUSCV Ile ercterens ¢ Baeiclerexe Young, Albert A..... eiveuehets ELanOoVer sieicresepeleratale srere) seis «) Mounts, J). cA Bie.< seicjscienerss Camden........ Kidboo Soteooe Young, Mrs. Lawrence...... Springdale .....cecseceesseNoung, Prof. (ra). .c.scrsieac.« <<) eLaNOVELAie « ciesminieiele sete nieve
Wisconsin. | Ohio. New York.
‘Wisconsin.
-| Pennsylvania.
Tennessee. Tennessee. Michigan.
New York.
-| Michigan.
.| New York.
-| Nova Scotia. .| Kentucky.
.| Pennsylvania.
.| New York.
.| Michigan.
.| Pennsylvania. .-| Vermont.
Indiana. Alabama. Virginia. Alabama.
Vermont.
.| New York.
.| Mississippi.
Michigan. Delaware.
.| New Hampshire.
Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania. Ohio. ¥
.| Michigan.
New Jersey. Wisconsin. New York.
.| Georgia.
New York. Pennsylvania.
.| Michigan. .| Wisconsin.
Michigan. New York.
.| New York.
New Hampshire. South Carolina. Kentucky.
New Hampshire.

<<<Page: 325>>>

The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents the following report relative to the present state of the finances, and the
expenditures during the year 1854.
The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest, deposited in the treasury of the United States (from which an annual income, at 6 per cent., is derived of Pen ALS) 1st re ey Rt tS Ne arama re nd cla ac
Amount of unexpended interest, reported last year as in charge of Messrs. Corco-
Pelle AMONP EUROS Vo) a fa rmicl a. wie eh dine = Sie $179,408 02
From which deduct amount passed by them to the credit of the treasurer, to
meet payments on building during 1854 54,408 02
125,000. 00 Balance in the treasury, January 1, 1855 14,159 59
$515,169 00
159,159 59
$694,328 59
Lhe following is a general view of the receipts and expenditures for the year 1854, exclusive of amount drawn from Corcoran and Riggs on account of
the building.
Balance in the treasury, as per last report $6,944 68 Interest on the original fund for the year
fe 7! ee ye ki ae 30,910 21 Interest on the extra fund for the year 1854 7,276 39
For items common to the objects of the
basntution |! hee es ee ae $12,752 00 For publications, researches, and lectures 8,094 38 For library, museum, and gallery of art. 9,512 19
For building purposes—difference between the amount expended and the amount
withdrawn from Corcoran and Riggs. . 613), 12 Balance yin the treasuryiesaok ssi saens <= 14,159 59
$45,131 28
$45,131 28

<<<Page: 326>>>

Detailed statement of the expenditures during 1854.
Pay on contracts. ......seecceesrece Sedsielals seed se ele sialajetsteres $52,280 00 Pay of architect and draftsman sjeietefoctole.cte eh clebeccececion wweeees| 1,237 00 Miscellaneous incidental to building .......... eines a/ele episieiesinie « 495 13 Magnetic observatory.........+Seen secces wieleve #0010 0 ou, steine<lele 18 77 Furniture, &c., for uses iN COMMON... .c.ccecesscceuccccccvice’s 938 12 Furniture, &c., for library...scccccrccccssccccsrccccccesscecs 52 12 ——————| $55,021 14 GENERAL EXPENSES.
Expenses of Board of Regents, &C....essreccecscceeessceceee 467 71 Lighting and heating....... asia elon ds njejeja)e\jo'e a \0i\s;0 dlesieielelejelsysie « 887 30 Postage. aac uilalelase avin alojelatclapsposiersiele’erelse/eislejelseiele ec tnccenecens A467 67 Transportation and exchanges......seceeccessses ve iesie,aje\eraisieseic 1,644 43 Stationery ...scesceccerces eesleer akele\ fet ete oe ececes elsieieje's ce aie 662 50 General printing... ..eeseee ACO BHO COT 0 ev eie 6 eine wleiwe eset 1. 1, 094 22 Apparatus...2 5 calc scie or o:0\s 0 c00'0's cseaciew eu sltivierina FE epjsle cd's se 427 26 incidentals general, including salary of clerk, books. -keeper, jani-
tor, watchman, laborer, extra clerk hire .......e.ceeesscecee 3,600 99 Salary of Secretary..... Saidiaiescteisioeis slaistevelsrofels\aciel elete aiatajelslstaieis 3,499 92
12,752 00
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.......... ote c cence eo 3,773 96 Reports on progress of knowledge. ..eesseescseecceseccoes eee 83 84 Other publications. ..ccerceccceccsecccrecevescscceres sterelsteios 917 89 Meteorology ..... eincletevaievtotele atalas ciate eiaelavate sfelstetaiaejefalelelas slote’s/ > 2,203 38 Investigations... .ccccccsscssees vioeswece 0:8 600 4:6 ste 0 leresieisiac siete 10 00 Pay of lectures....ccsccccrccccsrcecccecoss esiedee se ceiclescies 895 00 illustrations and apparatus for lectures. 2.0 0 00.00 6.e'a'6 o0le 5 \s.elia/oJeiejeiaie 156 37 Attendance and lighting lectures, &C......-seseeeees aiajoiblele/eaiale 53 94 8,094 38 LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. Gastiof bookies «sierucjasee'c: snialavels oe aieieie\eo ele aiatabiala\ele/sielsieie nieiakalsis 2,166 50 General catalogue........+. ceric cca aceweeded se sesccccesioeee 151 35 Storeot pple ANd prnting. <<jv:eiee cic we vie soe osu sinissicietslaysulsjeieisie dol 71 Incidentals, library, neldne. salary of two assistants, and DiGi) .catalars cloves ejcvele.elofolera: ctsielelosestels Rinialstatstents elevate erotecielors Sal) eedooroe Salary of Assistant Secretary. . aie jolelSaiotaldie oclamieishaielostelasiem elaistel are 1,319 43 | Explorations, MUSCUM.....ecerescccccccccccesesecsreescecees 250 00 | Expenses of collections, museum..... Wi govcrosatelaerslelevalejials iets steele 57°19 Incidentals, including alcohol, &c., assistance and labor, apparatus, catalogue, glass JaTss SCC. a'a/ee sela'siers sisleisleis's e'e)os cle e'ele je 536 54 Salary of Assistant Secretary. ...0....scccccsccccccceccsccces 1599979201 Incidentals, gallery of art 2. .cccciccccccsecsoscencccccesscons 50 00 a 9,512 18 Total expenditures in 1854... ceescecccescascieses odaiejehatels|slstekeisianioi eae] 85,379) 78
In the appropriations made, April, 1854, for the year the estimated income of the Institution was $38,500——of this sum $7,000 was devoted to the building and the remaining $31,500 to the operations of the Institution.
The first mentioned sum (7,000) is included in the balance in the treasury, the whole of which may be appropriated during the present year to the building.

<<<Page: 327>>>

The whole expenditure on the operations of the Institution was $30,398 57, which is $1,141 83 less than was appropriated.
The appropriation was not made until one-third of the year had passed, and this, with the unusual expenditure occasioned by a call of a special meeting of the Board, and the extra clerk hire and printing on account of the various reports, rendered it impossible to apportion the disbursements in exact conformity to the estimates. They will be found, however, approximately to agree—those for publications, &c., being less, and those for library, museum, &c., more.
On account of the additions which the building committee have found it necessary to make to the contract for the better security and adaptation of the building, the extra fund has been reduced to $140,000, instead of $150,000, as was formerly contemplated. It is probable a further reduction will be required to pay the amount still due on the contract, and for other purposes connected with the building, but this should not be allowed to diminish the extra fund below $125,000.
The following table presents a general exhibit of all the receipts and expenditures on account of the Smithsonian fund, from the beginning of the Institution until the first of January, 1855.

<<<Page: 328>>>

ee eee en as
Gh GLG‘EE GO 969 ‘FT €& €86‘9 L@ HEL‘ SL 869‘T 8S SPL €0 166% L& LS8°@ 9I 6o6‘F
o¢ I1e‘t FS 9¢
OF 8g‘T 67 If& 00 16
69 GHS‘S GO L6S‘T 6I LE0‘8 00 0S6‘T 9L OSG €9 S9S GL OGF‘T FI 888 ‘RT 00 O8L‘SSs
S0= sod
‘oyRBoIsoy
ey tr9‘T L9 LOF
eee reer ees eee eeeene ee
eoeteeeoee eee ee eer ees
Oe S110G
‘PSST 1vax
LP GPO‘ST 00 LOE G6 660‘ Gr see's 0S £0 61 68 0S 9
86 166‘66
G0 SE | 86 BLS T v8 Vest
, eee eeves eee ree eeee
eee oesr ene
00 LL OL 08g °T 00 00¢‘Sz
“EGBT tea x
66 666'F PE 1G8‘S 88 FPS Gr OE RE GE
ee orweeese eee
eee bee cene
eoereeoons
€8 6E8‘T 00 000‘0T "S19 ‘sTIO
“EERT TeOK
G8 SOr‘G
G6 66L‘E €F SL8‘T 69 SFI 90 6S1‘T 96 6IF eh 1S8 gL OLE GE 98h 0G 16%
| pg STS 89 % GB SCS 66 6FI 00 16 90 L¢9
jp eernceoer
{ Pee eeareee
6S €F Sy ble & | 00 000°6%
‘TS8T tex
bh 1668
8b ers‘ GL TPP ‘T 66 668 G@ FEL G8 T&S GG LIS CO €8I 0S 8¢
99 £691
eoeseoeeee
08 StS 0S 99T
O00 « Gr ESTs 00 000‘ F% "S19 “SIIOd
“OS8T 129 x
g¢ TIS‘h€& LES ‘T 06 66L‘T 00 661 9F G8
LT Leh
seer eeeee
Gel ELE gI 086‘T 0S ¢T
1 POLE 00 00¢‘0¢ S19 “SIIOd
“OPST TeoX
Sh @Ih‘9
Il 69
9) $9
eeeeeteoee
re ey
ee ees cee ee
00 &9 vG LI
8 0&6°8
ES ei FATE Hiedep cANS AO A sien» 06. Fact aR 6P FIO T PAS RE Ce ASST") PAS AP PARA ARE eye Paslenaiex ei. 8'* 9ne,ieyere iene) 6:00 (07cie RS OS ety GL L¥G‘ST seer ees er rreccersecvcceess s pIgON S[U}UIPIOUL LY OPc'T [piste Pienereaceis pect eecersocoseeees s eonipieddy €9 166 jp ee seeereene coe sewecee sree GUTULIg [Blouaxy) GO L eaieeh > cao on. dheotele maktiiaaminbeiy eat Gun UIg 96 9& Fee te wee etree eetreceswerceroeees ioe odsues J, 90 09 Tee eee weet ee eerste eseresesccsseresrresess QODISOT passage eceleseseveceseveseseceee se ee sels guiquan pau Ulva] Ch GEESE crete eects es saayIUIUOD pur syussar Jo sosuedxy
*sasuadca M.LaUaXy °G
XS chal | Jose esesoeesovecerwcrccrccosrsesors sees *snunolry teers ee eeeeeecercoes cai 30 AroppeS toys opts sees 0q beeen eee teeeeeeres cress ee eimasnut tojt opts tts * "0d Se tice} eels a:G lee o/sieisce) qereie-ae Orel MTOT lop topes ss 0g te) @0 9 20/0 0 ole: srarscs.s Saisieise“StrOI Vol qnasdOp es Opeme se OC se eeeeeeeelececooeee sTrOTIUIOD UL SASN OF SoIn}XY PUL oINPIUIN f sence eee ele eee ec ee tee eee eeeesees cree es KIOTBALOSYO OTJOUSPIAT €9 60¢ aa ee « Surpymq 0} [ao8I JA 00 OS%5T pe ceeeeceeeeweee eevee s sinaiyOIe pred sumunorg OL OSE ject teeeerocececovccevees s ecatiend jo UOTJLULUX €I S8P ve esos ee es ssrplia}yVUl SUIP[ING UO "02 ‘syuout10dxy
cg gee‘T °° 9L GBF‘S | *° 00 668‘@e'"** ‘S19 ‘SIIOd
‘LEST ‘TE “00d OL
tees eeeeeeereee egaqiimmmos SuIpling jo sosuodxy te trree ees cow ‘squapuaqutiodns ‘syoopryore Jo Avg tree ereeeeeeeooes oe Fuipfing Loy sjourjuoa uo Leg
‘spunoss ‘sammjay pun aunrusngf supyng *T
"LOUNISUT UDtUOsYIUS ay) fo sadnnpuadxa ay) fo JuamaInIS ]D.AIUIL

<<<Page: 329>>>

99 86, €0 08g‘T 9L 6E1 ‘FL
Gh G9E‘RG
00 060‘% 66 998 GO LOFT GO F6F‘S 00 S&F 00 0S0‘T 66 160‘6 G8 0s8‘¢ 19 669° 09 OFE ‘08
00 086, 86 8f9‘E
cee ewer eee
cé IST 0S 99L‘S
16 €¢ LE 9ST 00 S68 00. OL 8E 6065% 68 LI6 P8 €8 96 €LL‘s
Gr SIS‘
eeoeee
eee reer ews
eee ee er oee
OF SPV v8 199
70 091‘8
ea a eee
19 S80‘LP] 8F OTL‘6F| 9F LOE‘Ss
9G COCST ee ee ee ry
LE 966‘6L| $8 LLP‘S9! SP ILO‘TP €8 166‘9 | 98 SIL‘T | 66 08S | SS CG 1k ieee Play os, es Se rcec c Stace ob ev alyns cress
| OS F8L seas = Se le Se
resereresd Og 00 OOT eee se =? |. 00 Ol 0€ ELI £6 666‘T | 00 00S‘T | 00 0&2 10 €9¢ 90 GIS 00 06 eee eee ewe eie eerste eneaeanoe 00 €0L KES) 4 €0 €8I 00 FS eee” "| OO. 0S; 00 OST 96 66h‘ | G6 666‘T | 36 666‘T 8h 96L‘T | 10 GOF‘T | FG SEB 00 GS eeseeeaeeenee 00 9ST CB LLE 88 FLI L6 $86
ae 00 006. GL &6 GL 9E EL 08% 6F 9LE 00 S8é‘T | 00 SE9 00 SL | 00 OIL
06 910‘ | S& Seo'F
00 000‘T 0S 8g GS BE GO TéS‘T 00 06 99 966‘T 86 S8S 16 &6
9L T1a‘e | 9 G99‘E
86 667°G | OO OSL feet @h-062 00-009. rs°**t" 99 IV is . To eon tees . 00 cE
8g 16S ie es te cen a oe wah PI 8L8°S | 98 S9E | 66 Shs
00 OST as Som ais
CO StbS pons eens 00 G18 ptnereseeepereenes 00 0S 7" |.00 OOF qe GOsS6S' | OOLESE ae ot se 00. FI. ansssteeth rere NAS 6S | iowa “atacatne te ceperes eon ort 00 VPP jose coeevecelteoe teooes
| 48 996'% | 00 9¢4
cote cere ene receeeosecsresseveses GiyTdkjOoII}g e@eoeseeone £0 Disa OP * LOF s[eyueptouy
se opsie'igieisisile e:iue.e''a, 9.5) <euede en aTO Aro] [Vs IOJ sosvyomMg #4) SS» 0:05 91016.) Shee wave 6 ce yy erere ole oe. 4 he Sigler AMT OT HOMO TOS
eenereeeoes = Ops aeeeereeee * "I0J sejUIPlOUyT thee eee e cece ese corer eweceroces arratddoy ++ onGope}eo [R1sUex) bi.oile/6 isle ce: oie e.0/ 0s julepereutegencrertaelele SOO On] 800)
“pup fo fisaqyns pun Sumeasnu ‘hanaquyl “F
tenes cesar eTtee eerste aces snag ‘suorpeorqnd ‘seneypeg Ce ee ‘op* eos * LO} Suryyoly pue adULpUdTY
‘eee e*sainqooy Ioj snyeredde pue suorzerjsni ff tte teteeeseeesetereeseres ssigimyoay Jo keg se *SuOTTROlISOAUT
ses suoryeyndui0g ICID Wri) Co Cole T=) 7 er ee ee ee ee ee *suorpeortpqnd ITO terre crweses sagnarmouy Jo ssatsoid uo syzodey
ee i ee ee * SHOTINGLIWUOD UBIUESYPIWUG *Sd4NjI9) PUD *sayoimasad §sworjmangng ‘¢

<<<Page: 330>>>

1846. Jaly: 31 Sept. 10
1847. Jan. 1 July 5 Ocey 21 Nov. 26
1848. Jan. 1
April 1 4
May 10 July 7 Aug. 17 24
Oct. 16
1849. Jan 5 Feb: “17
April 17 July 2 5
To James Smithson, net proceeds of his bequest. . Td interest thereon to date, paid by the United States. i To H. W. Hilliard, Regent, over payment returned.
To interest on assumed debt, Ist July to 3lst December,, 1846, first half Syeatstelela wes) ayocnre\e ote esvelsis To interest on assumed debt, to 1st a 1847, second half year. ...cececcssccccerepercccscccees To interest on $250,000 treasury notes, to 17th August, six months...... wiscslalepiioleselle(elelaye}asle To proceeds of treasury notes sold, viz: Amount of
NOTES cee vearerescrccccsenesressrevcccsesevess| To interest to day of sale ...secseeeereseeeeeeees! To proceeds of Professor Henry’s Lectures at ey
ton....ede eee c ence tree cen cree e sees cee eeccece| To interest on assumed debt, to Ist January, 1848,
third shal year <:.'s seiciees s/e' eles siete s,cie' ele lelelesie\ aie To interest on $240,000 treasury notes, to 17th Feb-
PUAT Ys VOSS.) Sie OMNIS. se crealanta’e lola euloveaielnele ele To George M. Dallas, chancellor, premium paid for
$7,000 treasury Hibtos 7 eeacee en tana To $7,000 treasury notes, deposit to credit of Wm.
i Wi. Seaton chairman... ..:cs je vise sles wlekiavstelors ail alo: alia To proceeds of treasury notes, viz: Amount of notes. Mo premium thereon.’ s:< e's (cie/acieis ajals eles eleislelsiete =) To interest to day of sale... .cssecesreccceece oe| To interest on assumed debt, to Ist July, 1848,
fourth half year... is1scveieiecsorssie wie oieale eles ole eiee.es To interest on $240,000 fiaibets ‘notes, to 17th Au-
USES ISLX MOEN /<ieiarerejsseatolerelolastsinia eiissnss's'olasjecysiere
To proceeds of treasury notes, ‘viz: Amount of notes. PTOMMTUM sais arsjolerereessce wieieis esitvecee $200 00 ThESS' COMMISSION: 0s (c015,0/0 0/00: e1e's's i’ 12 50
To interest to day of sale........-ee0ee Sieiaiedielascic)e|
To proceeds of treasury notes, viz: Amount of notes.
' Premium ...\16\56 te eeeee Sivwecccccvee $270 00 | Less commission.....e« sew ressovene 11 25 aa aa |
To interest to day of sale..... sivleisiefestersiesie'* ealwisic sia
To interest on assumed debt, fifth half year........
To treasury notes, this amount redeemed and funded
in United States six POVICCH LA SUQEKs c.0)0je va-o:8ce) sors
To interest on treasury notes, $226,000, to 17th
Hebruary., six months; versie areisis sites se calee To United States six per cent. stock sold, viz:
Amonnt of stock. 221.5 leewaere Selelelenle'siesies'e ists
PREMIUM /s0 <icjdieveselonte carseetes aoe $1, 600 00 Teess\cOMMISs! OLE reassert Misloiesete te 20
To interest on $210,000 stock, from 17th eee tova0the June, PBA Sos) eveiet ve luis cr oasle Brechatn coeur F To interest on assumed debt, sixth half year......--
Fund account of
$10,000 00 121 67
5,000 00
187 50 5 00
258 75 85 50
16,000 00
1,560 00
9,000 00
68,232 25 15,455 14
$515,169 00 242,129 00 90
15,455 07 15,455 07
7,500 00
10,121 67 805,830 71
1,000 00 15,455 00 7,200 00 105 00 95 00
7,185 50 15,455 00 7,200 00
5,192 50
9,344 25
226,000 00 6,780 00
17,560 00

<<<Page: 331>>>

the Smithsonian Institution. Cr.
1846.
July 1 | By the United States—assumed debt... .ceseccscseeeeceees eee} $515,169 00 Sept. 6} By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman ere Committee—
From treasury United SS CATER: s/oisic ie esiere atates oiela/creaioteleaiclo stars 2,000 00
10 Repaid by Mr. Hilliard,....... olenieieverets peisiovivisiersiclle’sccre eee 90
Dec. . 21 From treasury United States..........00+. pistes eo ohereiaes taxes 2,000 00
1847.
Feb. 17 | By treasury notes, proceeds of warrants on treasury United States.| 250,000 00 25.| By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee—
From treasury United States......eseeeeSOAS OG EO siolale 3,584 07
July 8 Second half year, interest.on assumed debt. jose eccececss's 15,455 07
Oct. 221 Six months’ interest on $250,000 treasury notes............ 7,900 00
Nov. 26 Proceeds of $10,000 notes sold......... esaies scievecieceecoel! LO, 121 67
805,830 71
1848,
an. 1 | By Professor Joseph Henry, Secretary, on account of his salary .. 1,000 00
15 | By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, third half VERN SHIL CLOSE: viatelelel eslersicje/eiels nie olel soletelet sjatanleheres iors) s ojeatatete’ a's 15,455 00
April 1 | By treasury notes, investment of so much interest on notes reGOUVECt LIS! Cay cjaieie:wiseiaw\elelesloiplelelecia:aye/eileis(e\s)ae1:0r6e)s.e19 siasieip sas 7,000 00 By George M. Dallas, éhaneellor. balance of said imteroeie Bielaalereee 200 00
4 | By Wm. “W. Seaton, ‘chairman Executive Committee, deposited Diy sVinsDalllasine. sleyyecsictoisteisisreislste/aieiclstele’sin'«jc\eetaleva cincialele s\eletorers 95 00 May 10 Proceeds of notes sold . syatsievelaleleteveieieveiaveralerdieiejelase srsiclata 7,185 50 July 5 Fourth half year’s interest... sJeleieresiejnss.esie vw elaine, s'eieis et olefslals, sito 1a 15,455 00 Aug. 2 Interest on treasury notes due 17th August sotetaistaleleleto/sieievalele 7,200 00 24 Proceeds of notes sold....... aieaherstoers clenisteles atelele ae pabadiae 5,192 50 Oct. 16 IPLOCEEAS! Of, TIGLES SOI Aitas'cte slestslaiac cini'e ols ceiviersiateincia erie tein: 9,344 25 By profit and loss, premium paid for $7,000 treasury notes ....... 105 00
oe 68,232 25 1849, — Jan. 9 | By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, fifth half =
YealMerintercat heme ecicns cn sual o's te'slevele sslats ceccees aces 15,450 14 Feb. 17 By United States six per cent. stock, loan of 1847........ y % 226,005 00
28 | By Wim. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, interest on treasury notes, 17th Feb BTV» <ic o v'ce'e #0 «lee ene cece eeeeees 6,780 00 April 17 Proceeds of Stock SOMMER... -ecc ccc cceves sfelselelstelais eterstesiersiet se DOUL00 July 2 Interest on stock to 30th June........++.00. ae asiseeriaciees 4,614 24 : 7 Sixth half your SimiGRent cc ciccelcsebecscsecesespsencosiee| 10,400.07 Oct. 20 Proceeds of stock sold...... Sietenelsvs ial Siete Ceseias’ Geleicisisuseinel un alee true

<<<Page: 332>>>

64 ie ANNUAL REPORT OF
Dr. Fund account of RECEIPTS.
1849. ; Oct. 20] To United States six per cent. stock sold, viz:
ATMOUNt: OF UStOCKK:: 5 o'as <is/s5 + «sie, cstetetaiointe ms elelaieetoyete $10,000 00 Premium... .e's's « ec ccre ccc csccce $1,312 50 Less COMMISSION... ..eeceerreooes 25 00
——-—| 1,287 50
$11,287 50 997,151 95
1850. Jan. 2 | To interest on $200,000 six per cent. stock, to Ist of January; SIX TOONTHS .\. eis \cie: +i s/eis ehe}opisaiehelssishelsnvelele 6,000 00 4 | To interest on assumed debt, seventh half year..... 15,455 07 July 2 | To interest on $200,000 six per cent. stock, to 30th | JUDO [81 MONTHS! 0:0 a nsiei0-0) ous nverblajes siefe wiseisiniotols 6,000 00 9 | To interest on assumed debt, eighth half year....... 15,455 07 27 | To United States six per cent. stock sold, viz: , Amountiof stoclin:sjcyeieinysisie's «icciois shotais 10,000 00 ETM IU: -n/sjepeisibie.feleahe\aie, oianjetate! ois re 400° 00° Less commission.....ee.se0e eee 25 00 — 1,375 00 ———| 11,375 00 Sept. 19 | To United States six per cent. stock sold, viz: ATNOURT OL SLO CKiscerersishe siojeieterecuspelee scleisievoresleieielele 10,000 00 PEO PUBIIUUM erora'c'sic oie s svie s:cle-ele sie] shuld ofelocielarelelniovelels 1,600 00 ——_———|__ 11,600 00 Dec. 28 | To Washington monument, office furniture sold to that society a/é, «©, 9.0\ajejoie;a0ia/@ia) alee! e,ajefe'e]sia)e) siekala,sie\s),6.0 50 71 31 | To interest on $180,000 six per cent. stock, to 31st December, six months. ........6. sialestatelete avteveieta\ 5,400 00 71,335 85 1851] Jan. 20] To interest on assumed debt, ninth half year......eJecceceseeves 15,455 07 July 7 } To interest on $180,000 six per cent. stock to June BO; SIX MMONCHS sic zioore ssestoralesictnisis esvieiolaleatele eistaleeeal sinvefele acts sieles 5,400 00 16 | To interest on assumed debt, tenth half year......../..-Seuisiejeiars 15,455 07 36,310 14 1852. —— Jan. 7 | To interest on $180,000 six per cent. steer to December 31, six Months. «sis se cece icisisve'sic sles Se's cle] 00 ve acini sare 5,400 00 20 | To interest on assumed debt, tenth half year. Stee Telsioisl ee visis se sauces 15,455 07 26 | To proceeds of six per cent. stock sold, viz: Amount OL, BLOCK sc: crac. eicteta/aveis/siclenleie & teboerilerereceists «--| 180,000 00. Bremitim thereon’. ies se eislatalcloateinecienletel ic «ele -.| 28,800 00 = __| 208,800 00 July 2] To interest on assumed debt, half year.......-.+60sJeee. osieentwe 15,455 07 Dec. 27 | To repayment by J. Wyman on account of Smith“ha ey conian Contributions:.\! \cicimisctiecice.*ciszso.es occ male e ceeleee 5 00 31 | To interest on $208,800 from January 26 to Septemay ber 11, at five per cent....sesseeeseeereceseceenle sjebeyal er isieinieis 6,554 00 31 | To interest on $208,800 from September 11 to December 31, at four per cent.....-... la aMeiaa¥e @oiie,«'s|sin/alejalanjaialoin.s 2,575 20 Ki, Pe hie 254,244 34 1853. Jan. 11 | To interest on assumed debt, half YEODsecesceree Rlaraltreletate,se/a'e aves 15,455 07 Feb. 11 | To repayment on account of APPATAatus.....cececcslecccceres Sq 294 63 March 31 | To repayment on account of Smithsonian ContribuTOV aiosaois: a « faicyevavnswialosreseiaie.o/shavoneion cess ciate iol en Cree IEE Teielevaisrete;cin/sio\s | 74 00
June 30 | To interest on $208, 800 from January 1 to June 30, RE VSD CONE. ade suv oiesie eco ce'eidien wale Neale Alale's ejeielan'e ete;e)o|
5,220 00

<<<Page: 333>>>

the Smithsonian Institution.
1850. Jan. 2| By Wm. W. Seaton, chairman Executive Committee, interest On stock to [st Tamuanrys sie 6 00j0:010.0 s0,.0,0i0\e0i0 '0\0,05/0/s 016/010 o\0)\esie\6\0/6\5| 4 Seventh half year’s interest... ..e.ccccesvcssccescresiconcs | July 2 | By Wm. W. Seaton, treasurer, interest on stock to 30th June.... 9 Hiochth half year’s interest... cccccsecccssccscrecees 5 boGee 27 BrereeGsiog ato Cla 'SOld .\0;0 o e,00i0;s) ore eis)ie $1asel'e eles,010),0\0\sisjin/e e\9/e\a.s Sept. 19 Proceeds of stock sold....... mie: olsve les) oleisjeseiots isles oreielefesiayereye= Dec. 28 Furniture sold on account of pay of architects, &c......... 31 Interest on stock to 31st December, 1850......,.eee reese aie ‘
1851. Jan. 20} By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, half year’s interest....eecssecsees July 7 | By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, interest on stock to June 3) ....... 16 | By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, half year’s interest .....--.seecees
1852. Jan. 7 | By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, interest on stock to December 31.. 20 | By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, half year’s interest.........s0000. 26 | By Coreoran & Riggs, amount in their hands, on interest ........ July 2); By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, half year’s interest...........00. Dec. 27 | By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, repayment by Wyman............ 31 | By W. W. Seaton, treasurer, interest paid by Corcoran & Riggs . BU Whsiein tale eAOriajeyelegnenclelete! sera GO rejatelsree sits AOSfaretalaves! ovelaicrere ott dO. ate elere
1853. Pose ae W.. W.. Seatoitnencumoriats s/eiasaciore ec ole gees © is deterele dleccos hel oan IG) 8 Sea Os 5.04 wis scarelseretave Gi raletefelasl ais ofviseia\<‘slcidelsre’el ei suis «'ale\ens'e/e eis Mareh 30! {).5.0:0;. O's 6.010) sie) setelevetere dowsrereetaraviciels Slevieielsislaslasicicies's eens scees (Se Oe eee GOseletlostelsiesiels Selsiesaleseeveieie\e| esis) s) sis/ciaaie’» oie SESE RO erotica SUG s,6: «)<n\)o aevajele GO.S Ie Wwineaie.are\dlesievwiece Gua iurelal sit eleve! Sten e's 6.04 Dee 7 woes as do ee ee ee ee ey do. eeee eoaee eeereaeceetesees seeoeee
997,151 95
$6,000 00 15,455 07
—_—_———.
71,335 85
15,455 07 5,400 00 15,455 07
36,310 14
5,400 00 15,455 07 208,800 00 15,455 07 5 00
6,554 00 2,575 20
954,244 34
15,455 07 294 63 74 00 5,220 00 15,455 07 40 00

<<<Page: 334>>>

Fund
account of
RECEIPTS. 1853. July 2 | To interest on assumed debt, half year. 2/. sic. ctatteletels «ie Majeie siovel ore Dec. 7 | To repayment on account of Smithsonian ContribuTPLONSs o/</0'is):6)0) 0: ae, 0'ei0i0'n ©191e\0:'9 6 sin: el biers/e@iels)a\ vis e/6ja\eiele|eielo\s\6)8s\wloveeie 31 | To interest on $208,800, at five per cent., from July 1 to December 31.....0-0+00e sieivieioielsiaveiwises occas Be ae 1854 an. 12 | To interest on assumed debt from July 1 to Decemperish), Ledaterscers.« «ce crareercldeetemtetenteters devel ne oialaicletalsioclerersiste 18 | To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds § in their ATA srerageiaysiouars oicyetersic es se\s e.tclohetelnererateeis sete vor s/slejele! ee sieiere ie April 1 | To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds in their hands..... wo osetelslels eisis.clae ejects cle/e elelersie as overs s sielaletelelcies 0's July 14 | To interest on assumed debt from January 1 to June SUMS Hate a states ronson alsoisher stapes lel eioleta ete evece spaciare|inreteun eters siaisaKe 21 | To Gorcoran & Riggs, interest to June 30, 1854, on Garis in 'thteiy havidas Vetere oko ee tetas Aug. 7} To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds in their LLAMAS 316, 5c15 26 Stas yaiel's eveisia sistsrojniee eis: oie aintelovo'serere's'lelolts a\alistetersislexe Sept. 25 | To Corcoran & Riggs, on account of funds in their MAMAS /eyh fortes ais Sovcier a (wie: sievsisiaimysiel seava'sehele’s,s.cca'evetaye|s a ievejeise oyeiesere Nov. 2 | To Corcoran & Riggs, 0 on account of funds in their HAMS ioisy5i0,f wavelrere so .asss 6) sianaue aini/st 16, wis ie ete\oraie /a a\ele,ofe|lsv ovens tisielesie ee Dec. 30 | To Corcoran & Riggs, interest to December 31, 1854, Gul Gana nin theit HeMde. widuet asker vost clesdleusstion aes REPAYMENTS. Jan. 4 | To sale of clock, on account of apparatus........ aie| sefa)ajelesialaeiare 14 | To Minnesota Historical Society, on account of Smithsonian Contributions............ tjais favslsisieiejehisietetsreie aie ate ea March 13 | To Coast Survey office, on account of apparatus....|s.ecesweeees To Coast Survey office, on account of transportation.|.....s+ee017 | To J. M. Gilliss, Navy een on account of transportation... .ceescoes eer cccleccccscesecs July 29 | To G. P. Putnam, sale of books, on account of Smithsonian Contributions... Sraiaieisusterals\eielove) s|ie\e wisiece/eretorepets
$15,455 07 40 00 5,220 00
41,758 77
15,455 07 48,800 00 10,000 00 15,455 07 3,875 00 10,000 00 5,000 00 10,000 00 3,401 39
400 00 20 00 560 92 12 27 16 62
143 69
—_———
123,140 03

<<<Page: 335>>>

the Smithsonian Institution. Cr. EXPENDITURES. 1853. Dec. 31 | By W. W. Seaton, treasurer........sseeeseoseuees Sisieniasjoe.e we $5,220 00 | | 41,758 77 1854. Jan. 12/| By ms we: Weaton, treasures secs ace cltssteetiee rweiciele eaiels erelseietels 15,455 07 1G} Dosesdoesiecieer ee eee BG, ci aeu ae pacneemued a RAED eafeialbtt 48,800 00 April 1 |..---Ricteiseieisie isles lore AO aicreicis cfs e evaietoteres Mero aheots ohare ee einvenierare 10, “000 00 July 14 |....-. dO. sscoove cteeee DO.ccceeccccccsccvsrcceccrcescesecccens 15, 455 07 Sea ose Oriel etstele a peleioie OP. is ésatclerais cs creterecttare ciwlere ote nisvercralaveivetats 3, 875 00: Aug. (hails con Ova 's.sleicieietersiaxelote MLO Netetara s aeveters clectarelpuesssveterereiae eioleuietert erties 10, 000 0& Sept. 25 |...... AObraieis)s seis sestarers Ors cielocaraisielsies'siniejalseie a(cjalentel storeiciereera\eroinr 5, 000 00 Noy. DlAlGg Oat Op ieie los rote me eeltes OE seed. Uanvarevale(eetone secete) slate rene euereicie acehete wiare 10, 000 00 IDEs are hoo cel Orne och ones oc dOvaicleasiectexe « alarererolerareiereleterelonieiete/ siti Sisters 2401 39 Jan. AN Sep aot Olen ,,0:0! sel sevelsisve. GO SNe lerceyete cis sicin'ei ctelehelsaisiere.ciselavalaterouielelaters 400 00 4 | Steucpauara Op eicie disistecteveievsle Ov es picsete AICHE CSE InIOREAT DEC IOD OOS 20 00 March 13 |..... EO Ole ovteneray a oteckete Miey aL O Saye aiaisteve cletetereiete elaiavelsvsishoretcoveneholeielalste eters 560 92 ESE | sovapavels Oepele:ayeielaievetasrele.e Oisictereevonave sie alate elslelciee’oteratalec eteielaerota’s eras 12) 20 |S) acehenaite CO GIR COE A RICOme ODIC DOs crsyalels ave sclave clei one! opelavevsivereisietsise niGod 16 62 IU PSO) Nidsehre COmrercteietetelseis! oie ajsd Ose as. eieielelexslers sjefoicliern)clelie)s : 143 69..
123,140 03

<<<Page: 336>>>

‘Transportation and exchange..
Salaries—Secretary..
The committee, after conferring with the secretary, submit the following estimates for appropriations for the year 1855:
Pay on contracts...
Pay of architects, ahaa Sas siete etesialerere cle aietcels clateveststendfoceete Incidental expenses to building eNaverseie'shcis ee: oleheieenels se sesescces Furniture ang Gxtures.. 6. anis.ss cs cesesneces we te tees vce Magnetic observatory......s.seees Holeie) as 0 wjeleleetseieole shovels ore GENERAL EXPENSES. Meetings of Board... .....000. s'0 octleloleleleelele's's ale slole sfsieieeieiee.« & Lighting and heating... cece cece cess eseernsee sass ceuecces BRO SHAS ial a: ays; «\s'sies,e/neis.cusorale a olsin/e\|o's slocfsieielalectetsfolelestaleyele’siereete
Stationery .. Halatole\o dsl oralelelee.ole ors/e « ee sheila skasletelaiaisicys\ais «ais7s General printing Boe Apparatus ..
Incidentals general ..
Cee eee ee etree eee eee eeeeeeeesraeeeeeneees
Clog tenet eiaclelcl sdiaiel oralue'e'ecasietersverentayete ayaera
Book-keeper....... siapaslale cleleis cla aeiera afstestatalovelce ata sere ATUTUOT tas ficlohs: w disksie alslhortccmters sintornietae stercisievemievers.etionste Laborer «ice Mtaptetsvere as a yeteibiania) ele (euetietsieimn tetas eieleecets WViat Chaman. cis \cicvcics e's coolesscisieieve.s «6 Serclatle erste oer cree Bixtra, clerk hires iiss cess ee 6 Wrens loo avalecatels otchadedeias cheiorahe
PUBLICATIONS, LECTURES, ETC. Smithsonian Contributions ....ecsececescecevccrecveeesecsces Reports on progress of knowledge. ..eeseeeeeee Other publications. Meteorology .. Computations, researches, and investigations. fessie etal Lectures.
eee eee etree eee
eee eer eee eee ee er ee er esses eeereeeHee tore eeee
eee etre ee eee see ee eeeene
eee eteoee
Seem eee eee eee ee eseeeseeeeF tree seer eeereseeeteseeue
Library— Pay of assistants... ...eeseeees Cost of books and binding...... Incidentals to library, cases, &c... Stereotyping system. .
eee eee eee eer eeee
eee eee eee eee sere eee seo eee aeeeeeeoreeees
Museum— Salary—Assistant SeCretary...eeeccsecceseccssccssaccccrecces Explorations ........ wieienis sfelelas (slate aisle\aiaiee choleeisfetelotelsle\erenichale’s « Alcohol, glass jars, &C...cccseccvcrccccccccercesecsscces Assistance and: labor: éis:e'edsisie wieleneieiene eeienece Bcaon clts oon aan cused
Incidentals, cases, &c.. Catalogue......00
ee eee eee ee are eee eee er eeesreseseeeeeee
| $8,000 00 500 00 500 00 | 1,000 00 20 00
600 00 850 00 500 00 1,600 00 350 00 250 00 500 00 600 00 3,500 00 1,200 00 200 00 400 00 250 00 365 00 200 00
2,000 00
3,500 00
1,000 00 100 00
6,600 00
2,000 00 200 00 350 00 100 00
1,000 00 250 00
CONE TONCIOS 0:0 c/s sieieibe eeie'e thas 16 00isloislefenisleielolen'e: ei6\e shel) sieie
$10,020 00
11,365 00
10,500 00
10,500 00 100 00
42,485 00
Respectfully submitted.
Janvary, 1855.
JevA. PE
Executive
Committee.

<<<Page: 337>>>

The building committee of the Smithsonian Institution presents the following report of their operations and expenditures during the year 1854.
It was stated in the last report that the work of completing the building was commenced by Mr. Gilbert Cameron, the original contractor, under the direction of Capt. Alexander, of the engineer corps, on the 13th of June, 1853. It has been uninterruptedly prosecuted from that time to the present, and the committee are now pleased to inform the Board that the main or centre building is finished, with the exception of a few and unimportant additions.
Tt was, however, discovered, in the progress of the work, that many changes and additions would be required, in the plan adopted, for the better security and adaptation of the building, which would involve an additional expense; but in the present state of the Institution, and in consideration of the long delay in finishing the edifice, the committee thought it best to press on the work.
The main building, which is 200 feet long, 50 feet wide, and 60 feet from the basement floor to the upper ceiling, is divided into three stories. The first story consists of the basement, separated into two large rooms, and the space between them for the heating apparatus. The two apartments are intended for store rooms and other purposes connected with the mechanical operations of the Institution.
The second story consists of one large room, 200 feet long, 50 feet wide, and 26 feet high, the ceiling of which is supported by two rows of columns extending the whole length; at the middle of the space corresponding to the principal entrances, are two wing walls, by which, with the addition of screens, the whole space may be divided into two large rooms, with a hall extending across the building between them. This story may be used for a library or a museum, or for both, as the wants of the Institution may require. It is finished in a simple but chaste style, and has received general commendation. Indeed it is, perhaps, in appearance, one of the most imposing rooms in this country, apart from adaptation to its purposes.
The floor through the middle part is formed of cut stone, that of the other parts is of wood, which, resting on the arches beneath, without space between to contain air, is considered sufficiently fire-proof, and not subject to dampness from the variation of temperature and humidity of the atmosphere.
The upper story is divided into three apartments without pillars, a lecture room of about 100 feet in length in the middle, and two rooms, each 50 feet square, on either side. These rooms are intended for collections. The one on the west may be connected with the library, and that on the east with the museum. ‘The latter has been fitted up with cases in which to deposit the collection of apparatus presented to the Institution by Dr. Hare, the other with a separate case to contain

<<<Page: 338>>>

the personal effects of James Smithson. The lecture room, the optical and acoustic properties of which are probably unsurpassed by any apartment intended for the same purpose in the United States, occupies one-half of the upper story of the main building, besides a portion of the front and rear towers ; its precise length is 96 feet, and extreme width 62 feet. It will comfortably seat 1,500 persons, and, when crowded, will contain upwards of 2,000. The apartments on each side of the lecture room, besides being fitted up with cases for. books, specimens, or apparatus, can be used for meetings of associations, while large assemblies for public discussions can be accommodated in the lecture room.
The whole arrangement of the upper part of the building is made with a view to afford facilities for meetings of large associations which have for their object the promotion, diffusion, or application of knowledge. If at any time the space now occupied by the lecture room should be required for other purposes, the seats and gallery may be removed and the partition walls which are unconnected with the roof may be taken down and the whole upper story converted into one large hall. Besides the main building just finished, the whole edifice consists of two wings, two connecting ranges, and a front and rear projection at the middle on which towers are erected.
The whole amount paid on account of the building, the grounds, and furniture is $299,414 14. The amount paid during the past year is $55,021 14, of which $13,000 is on the work previously done under the direction of the former architect. In order to secure the faithful performance of the work, fifteen per cent. has been withheld from the monthly payments until the whole should be finished. The sum which, on this account, is still due to the contractor, has not yet definitely been ascertained. According to an addendum to the original contract, the Regents were at liberty to make any changes in the building or in the time of its completion which they might deem necessary, and the contractor should receive pro rata, according to the prices agreed upon, for work so executed, and reasonable compensation for damages which might be sustained.
The following letter from the architect will give additional information :
Wasuinaton, D. C., December 30, 1854.
GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to report to you that the work on your building has been prosecuted during the past year without intermission, and tat the central portion of it is now nearly completed.
There are some small matters yet to be attended to, and a few trifling repairs and alterations yet to be made in the other parts of the building. These can all be completed in a few weeks.
Iam happy to state that the building has been completed without any accident, either to the workmen employed, or to the building itself, and that in my opinion, every part of the work has been substantially done.
I have devoted much study to the plans which have been executed, and given the work my personal supervision nearly every day.
An examination of the rooms of the central building willimpress one

<<<Page: 339>>>

with the idea of great simplicity. There is not much ornament, but still enough, as I think, to enable the building to do its duty with grace and dignity.
The lower hall is equally adapted to the purposes of a museum or a library. The lecture room is the best which it was possible to make within the walls of the building, and now that it has been completed, I am happy in being enabled to state that were it to be made over again, I would not alter any of its essential features.
I would not be doing justice to Professor Henry were I not to acknowledge the great assistance I have received from him in arranging the details of this room. Iam free to confess that during the progress of the work he has given me suggestions which have materially improved my plans.
It will be seen by an examination of the payments which have been made to the contractor, that the cost of completing the building considerably exceeds the estimates which I prepared before the work was begun. This is due in part to the rise in the prices of materials and labor, but principally to the execution of many improvements which were not originally contemplated, but which it was thought best to make during the prosecution of the work. These improvements were the sewers for drainage ; the cisterns for supplying water; the substitution of stone for iron stairs ; the making of new sashes for many of the windows ; the strengthening and in part re-construction of the roof of the main building, putting in copper gutter, and leaders on the towers, besides other alterations and additions tending to swell the cost of the work.
Hoping that my efforts to improve your building will meet you approbation, as well as that of the Board of Regents,
I am, gentlemen, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Archuect Smithsonian Institution. To the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution.
A full statement of the amount due the contractor cannot be given until a more precise estimate of all the items of work done under the direction of the architect has been made.
Respectfully submitted,
Building Committee.

<<<Page: 340>>>

WEDNESDAY, January 3, 1855.
In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meeting on the first Wednesday of January of each vear, the Board met this day in the Regents’ room.
Present: Meseis: Bache, Berrien, Douglas, Mason, Behice, Rush, Towers, and the Secretary.
In the absence of the Chancellor Mr. Pearce was called to the chair.
The Secretary informed the Board of the re-election by joint resolution of Congress of Hon. Rufus Choate, of Massachusetts, and Hon. Gideon Hawley, of New York, as regents of the Smithsonian Institution for six years ensuing.
On motion of Mr. Mason the Board adjourned to meet on Friday, January 12, at 10 o’clock, a. m., and the Secretary was requested to inform the absent members of the Board that the report of the Select Committee on the distribution of the income would then be taken up for consideration.
FRIDAY, January 12, 1855.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was held on Friday, January 12, at 10 o’clock a. m.
Present: "The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, Choate, Douglas, English, Hawley, Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Rush, Stuart, Totten, Towers, Professor Henry, Secretary, and Mr. Seaton, ‘Treasurer.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
A communication from J. W. Simonton, Washington editor of the New York Daily Times, and §S. Thayer, of the New York Evening Post, asking permission to attend the meetings of the Board to report its proceedings, was read.
Mr. Meacham moved that the request be granted, which was lost.
The order of the day being the consideration of the report and reso

<<<Page: 341>>>

lutions of the Select Committee on the distribution of the income, the first resolution was read, namely :
Resolved, That the seventh resolution passed by the Board of Regents on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the income between the active operations and the museum and library when the buildings are completed, be and it is hereby repealed.
Remarks were made by Messrs. Choate, Pearce, Douglas, and Berrien.
On motion of Mr. Mason the yeas and nays were ordered.
The question was then taken on the adoption of the first resolution as follows:
Yras.—The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, and Totten—8.
Nays.—Messrs. Choate, Douglas, English, Meacham, Stuart, and Towers—6.
The second resolution was then read:
Resolved. That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be apportioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the Institution in such manner as may, in the judgment of the regents, be necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance, and a compliance in good faith with the law.
The question being taken on this resolution it was adopted.
Yeas.—The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Totten, Towers—9.
Nays.—Messrs. Choate, Douglas, English, Meacham, and Stuart—5.
Mr. Meacham then offered the following resolution, which was the first reported by him in his minority report, namely :
Resolved, 'That a compliance in good faith with the letter and spirit of the charter of the Smithsonian Institution, requires that a large proportion of the income of the Institution should be appropriated ‘for the gradual formation of a library composed of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge.”
The question being taken on this resolution it was lost.
Yras.—Messrs. Choate, Douglas, Meacham, and Stuart—4.
Nays.—The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, English, Hawley, Mason, Rush, Pearce, and Totten—9. ,
Mr. Meacham’s second resolution was then read, namely:
Resolved, That the expenditures for the library shall be made under the direction of a “library committee” of three members, to be annually elected by the Board of Regents from members not upon the Executive Committee, or upon other committees which may be appointed to superintend the affairs of other departments or objects of the Institution.
The question being taken on this resolution it was lost.
YeEas.—Messrs. Choate, Douglas, and Meacham—3.
Nays.—The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, English, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Stuart, and Totten—10.
On motion of Mr. Pearce the following resolution was adopted.
Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed by the Chancellor to confer with a Committee of the Establishment as to suitable means of communication between the two bodies, and to report thereon at a subsequent meeting of the regents.

<<<Page: 342>>>

The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Mason, Douglas, and Totten.
A communication from Gilbert A. Cameron was read; which, on motion, was referred to the Building Committee.
The Treasurer then made a statement of the condition of the finances of the Institution; which was referred to the Executive Committee.
The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, loth January, at 10 o’clock.
SATURDAY, January 13, 1855.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was held on Saturday, January 13, at ten o’clock, a. m.
Present: The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, Choate, English, Hawley, Mason, Meacham, Pearce, Rush, Totten.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Mr. Pearce, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the estimate of appropriations for the year 1855, which, on his motion, was laid on the table tor the present.
Mr. Pearce, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented the following report in relation to the case of Mr. Blodget, which had been referred to that committee by the Board.
At a meeting of the Board of Regents held Saturday, July 8, 1854, the Executive Committee was authorized to investigate and settle the business presented to the Board by the Secretary, in reference to the adjustment of the claims of Mr. Lorin Blodget.
The committee having investigated the matter referred to them, presents the following report in part:
Mr. Blodget was employed by the Secretary of the Institution to aid him by such labors in relation to the meteorological observations under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution as ithe Secretary might assign. The rates of compensation for these services were fixed from time to time by the same officer, and Mr. Blodget is entitled to no other compensation than that paid to him. His footing in the Institution was simply that of a temporary employé of the Secretary, in whose hands rested the determination of his duties, pay, and duration of service. Employed and paid for these services in connexion with the meteorological operations, the fruit of his labors belong exclusively to the Institution.
In addition to these payments the committee is prepared on receiving satisfactory statements or vouchers from Mr. Blodget of reasonable expenses incurred during any journeys he may have made with the consent of the Secretary for objects connected with his duties in meteorology in the Institution, to refund the amount, as also any moneys which may appear to the satisfaction of the committee to have been paid out by him and not already repaid for clerical or other services connected with the meteorological observations of the Smithsonian Institution, and for which an equivalent advantage has been recived.
J. A. PEARCE, JOS. G. TOTTEN, > Executive Committee. A. D. BACHE,

<<<Page: 343>>>

Communications and a memorial from Mr. Blodget to the Board were then read and ordered to lie on the table.
The report of the Executive Committee was then adopted unanimously. :
It being stated to the Board by Mr. Choate on behalf of Mr. C. C. Jewett that he did not design, for reasons stated by him, to ask the action of the regents at their present meeting on his memorial of the 3d July last, communicated to the Board through the Secretary, Mr. Mason moved that the said paper be returned by the Secretary to Mr. Jewett.
On motion the memorial to the Board was then read.
Mr. Choate then requested permission in behalf of Mr. Jewett to withdraw the memorial, which was granted.
The Secretary then stated to the Board that he had deemed it his duty since its last session to remove Mr. Charles C. Jewett from the office of assistant to the Secretary. He deeply regretted the necessity which he had been under to exercise this authority, declared to be vested in him by the Board, and for the present he rested his reasons for the act on the character of a paper submitted by Mr. Jewett to the select committee on the distribution of the income, and upon the opinion in regard to that paper expressed by the committee to which it was submitted.
Mr. Pearce offered the following:
The Secretary having stated to the Board that since the last meeting of the Regents in 1854 he had removed Mr. Jewett, under the authority declared to be vested in him by the resolution of July 8, 1854.
Resolved, That while the Board regret the necessity of Mr. Jewett’s removal, they approve of the act of the Secretary.
Resolved, 'That this approval by the Board is not deemed by them to be essential to the validity of the act of the Secretary in so removing Mr. Jewett.
The Board then adjourned to meet on Monday, January 15, at ten o’clock.
MONDAY, January 15, 1855.
The Board of Regents met to-day at ten o’clock.
Present: The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, Douglas, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Towers and Totten.
The Chancellor, took the chair, and the minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Mr. Pearce’s resolutions offered at the last meeting on Saturday were then taken up.
The question being taken on the first resolution, it was adopted. Yeas.—The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Totten—8.
Nays.—Messrs. Douglas, Towers—2.
The second resolution was then taken up and adopted.
Yras.—The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Berrien, Hawley, Mason, Pearce, Rush, 'Totten—8.
Nays.—Messrs. Douglas, T’owers—2.

<<<Page: 344>>>

On motion of Mr. Rush, Mr. John T. Towers was elected to fill the vacancy in the Building Committee.
The report of the Exe¢utive Committee, making estimates of appropriations for the year 1855, &c., was then taken up and adopted.
On motion of General Totten, the following resolution was adopted :
Resolved, That in case the sum required ‘for the completion of the Smithsonian building should exceed the amount appropriated for the same, that the Building Committee have authority to pay for any unavoidable excess out of funds on deposit to the credit of the Institution.
The report of the Building Committee was then read, and on motion adopted.
A memorial and printed pamphlet from John Lord, of Portland, Maine, was read and ordered to lie on the table.
The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, January 27, at ten o’clock a. m.
WasHINGTON, January 27, 1855.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution was held on Saturday, January 27, 1855, in the regents’ room.
Present: The Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Pearce, Stuart, Towers, Totten.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
The following communication was read:
House or REPRESENTATIVES, Washington, January 20, 1855.
Str: J am instructed by the special committee of the House of Representatives, raised in conformity with the accompanying resolution, to request you to inform the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution that the committee is ready to proceed to the discharge of its duties—and that any communication the Board may think proper to make will be most respectfully entertained.
The committee will meet on Thursday, February 1, at half past 7 o’clock, p. m., in the rooms of the Hon. W. H. Wittee, at the National Hotel.
The presence of an enilieriged representation of the Board, during the investigation of the matters referred to the committee, would aid us in the performance of the duty imposed by the order of the House of Representatives.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, CHARLES W. UPHAM, Chairman.
Professor Jos. Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Copy of resolution of House enclosed. In tHE House or Representatives U. 8.—January 17, 18565.
On motion of Mr. Meacham, Resolved, That the letter of Hon. Rufus Choate, resigning his place as Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, be referred ‘ae a alee committee of five, and printed; and that said committee be directed to

<<<Page: 345>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. vi
inquire and report to this House whether the Smithsonian Institution has been managed, and its funds expended, in accordance with the law establishing the Institution; and whether any additional legislation be necessary to carry out the designs of its founders, and that said committee have power to send for persons and papers.
The Speaker thereupon appointed Mr. Upham, of Massachusetts ; Mr. Witte, of Pennsylvania; Mr. Taylor, of Tennessee ; Mr. Wells, of Wisconsin; and Mr. Puryear, of North Carolina, the said committee.
On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was—
Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed by the Chancellor to represent the Board of Regents before the committee of the House of Representatives.
The Chancellor appointed Messrs. Pearce, Mason, Bache, Rush, and the Secretary, as the committee.
The Secretary laid before the Board his annual report.
& Communications, and a bill of charges from Lorin Blodget, were read, and, on motion of Mr. Stuart, referred to the Executive Committee.
Communication from G. Cameron, the contractor for the building, was read, and referred to the Building Committee.
Communication from J. M. Stanley, artist, offering to dispose of his Indian Gallery, was read, and, after remarks, on motion it was
Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed respectfully to decline the offer made to the Board by Mr. Stanley.
A communication relative to the Geographical and Commercial Gazette was read, and referred to the Executive Committee.
The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 10, at 10 o’clock, a. m.
Wasuineton, February 10, 1850.
Present: Messrs. Bache, Mason, Pearce, Totten, and the Secretary There being no quorum, adjourned to Saturday, February 17.
Wasuineton, February 17, 1855.
Messrs. English, Pearce, Totten, Towers, and the Secretary present. There being no quorum, adjourned to meet on Saturday, February 24.
Wasnineton, February 24, 1855.
An adjourned meeting of the Board of Regents was held on. Saturday, February 24, 1855, at 10 o’clock a. m.
Present: Tbe Chancellor, Roger B. Taney, Messrs. Bache, Douglas, English, Pearce, Totten, Seaton, treasurer, and the Secretary.
A report entitled “*Report of the Hon. James Meacham, of the special committee of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, on the distribution of the income of the Smithsonian fund,” &c., was presented, and on motion laid on the table.
On motion of Mr. English, the following resolution was adopted :
Resolved, That three persons be appointed a committee of finance, who shall inquire into the safety and propriety of the present invest

<<<Page: 346>>>

ment of the funds of the Institution, not in the Treasury of the United States, and who shall have the authority to withdraw the said fund from the present place of deposit, and invest them otherwise in the name of the regents of the Institution.
The chancellor appointed Messrs. English, Pearce and Mason as the committee.
The following report was read :
The committee to whom was referred the resolution of the ‘ establishment,” proposing a conference by committee with the Board of Regents, for the purpose of determining the mode of communication between the establishment and the Board of Regents, submit the following report:
That they have met and conferred with the committee appointed tor that purpose by the establishment, and have, after consultation, agreed upon the following resolutions, to be reported by the committees to their respective constituencies, and the committee recommend that they be adopted by the Board of Regents, and made a part of the by-laws.
J. The general communication between the Institution and the Board of Regents shall be made through their common secretary.
2. The secretary will regularly communicate to each body all such acts of either as may concern the other respectively, or may require their joint action.
3. When either body may desire any special communication with the other, it will propose a conference by committee.
All which is respectfully submitted.
J. M. MASON, Chairman.
JaNuARY, 1855.
The report of the committee was approved.
The following resolution was offered by Mr. Douglas, and adopted by the Board:
Resolved, That all correspondence of this Institution with any person or society shall be conducted by the Secretary, and no assistant or employee shall write or receive any official letter or communication pertaining to the affairs of the Institution, except under the authority and by the direction of the Secretary, and all such correspondence shall be duly registered and recorded in such manner as the Secretarygshall direct.
The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary.

<<<Page: 347>>>

Report on American Explorations in the years 1855 and 1854. By S. F. Baird, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
The report on this subject for 1853, though ready for publication at the time of printing the last Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution, was kept back until the present year, as most of the expeditions mentioned in it were still in the field at the close of 1853, and of many no definite intelligence had been received. Nearly all of these have, however, returned ; and their officers are now busily engaged in preparing their reports. I therefore shall present the principal events for 1853 and 1854 in one narrative, without always distinguishing those of each year.
The number of important scientific explorations embraced in this period, mark it conspicuously in the history of American discovery. Most of these are due to the appropriation for the survey of the China seas and Behring’s Straits, and that for a survey of the several routes for a railroad to the Pacific, (although many more private expeditions were set on foot,) in addition to the regular operations of the United States and Mexican Boundary Survey, whose labors during the past years were in continuation of those commenced before. Many reports of explorations, commenced or completed prior to 1853, have been published during this period, and will be noticed in their proper places.
With scarcely an exception, every expedition of any magnitude has received more or less aid from the Smithsonian Institution. This has consisted in the supplying of instructions for making observations and collections in meteorology and natural history, and of information as to particular desiderata ; in the preparation, in part, of the meteorological, magnetical, and natural history outfit, including the selection and purchase of the necessary apparatus and instruments; in the nomination and training of persons to fill important positions in the scientific corps; in the reception of the collections made, and their reference to individuals competent to report upon them; and in employing skillful and trained artists to make accurate delineations of the new or unfigured species. Much of the apparatus supplied to the different parties was invented or adapted by the Institution for this special purpose, and used for the first time, with results surpassing the most sanguine expectations

<<<Page: 348>>>

I shall now proceed to present such facts as may be necessary to a full understanding of the history and progress of these several expeditions, considering first those having North America for their field.
United States and Mexican Boundary Survey.
The operations on the eastern end of the boundary line, as originally established, were brought to a successful termination towards the end of 1853, by the energy and skill of Major Emory, and all the parties returned to Washington by the beginning of 1854. After the purchase of a portion of Sonora from Mexico, it became necessary to make a new survey of the Mexican boundary; and Major Emory having been appointed commissioner, he completed his preparations in a very short time, and proceeded to the field of his labors, arriving at El Paso, the initial point, the beginning of December, 1854. From this point he will proceed westward, expecting to meet half-way the sub-party of Lieutenant Michler, who starts eastward from Fort Yuma. Major Emory is accompanied by Dr. Kennerly as surgeon and naturalist, from whom much may be expected in the development of the natural history of the country, with the facilities which Major Emory has always furnished to the scientific corps of his several explorations. The natural history collections brought back trom the lower Rio Grande, by Major Emory, were very extensive and important.
Survey of routes for a Railroad to the Pacific.
Just before the adjournment of Congress, in March, 1853, an appropriation of $150,000 was made, to defray the expenses of the survey of various routes.along which it was supposed that a railroad, extending between the Mississippi river and the Pacific, might be constructed. By virtue of the authority committed to him by Congress, the Secretary of War proceeded to organize six parties, for the exploration of four main routes leading to the Pacific; and of these, Gov. I. I. Stevens, Lieutenant R. 8. Williamson, Captain Gunnison, Lieutenant A. W. Whipple, and, at a later period, Lieutenant J. G. Parke and Captain J. Pope, were severally placed in command. All these parties were abundantly provided with the apparatus and instructions, written or printed, necessary to enable them to make copious collections in natural history, and observations in physical science. Each party (excepting the two last, which were not so fully organized) went accompanied by a surgeon, zodlogist, botanist, mineralogist, geologist, and a civil engineer; though, occasionally, the same person united several of these functions. The parties set out for their several labors in the following order and organization.
1. Northern route under Governor I. I. Stevens.
This portion of the survey was first in the field and most extensive in its organization. It was placed under command of Governor I. IL. Stevens, lately of the corps of the United States engineers, and assistant in charge of the Coast Survey, who had been appointed governor

<<<Page: 349>>>

of the new Territory of Washington, and was now about proceeding to the field of his duties. ‘The survey was divided into two main bodies, one to proceed towards the Rocky mountains from the east, the
‘other to cross the isthmus and startin from the Pacific side to meet the
former. Each of these parties was again subdivided into sub-parties, the progress and superintendence of which is as follows :
Governor Stevens, with the main party, proceeded from St. Paul, on the 8th of June, 1853, westward to Fort Union, a trading post belonging to the American Fur Company, situated at the mouth of the Yellow Stone river; thence up the Missouri river to the mouth of Milk river; and up the valley of Milk river, nearly due west, to Fort Benton, another trading post of the American Fur Company near the Falls of the Missouri, where they arrived September 1.
From Fort Benton Governor Stevens crossed to the mission of St. Mary’s; thence, by the Coeur d’Alene, to Fort Colville; thence to Fort Vancouver and Olympia.
Lieutenant Saxton started from Fort Vancouver, and proceeded up the Columbia river, by water, as far as the Dalles; from the Dalles, up the valley of the Columbia, by land, to Walla-walla, a trading post occupied by the Hudson’s Bay Company ; thence in a northeasterly direction to the western extremity of Kalispe lake, crossing Lewis’s fork of the Columbia, forty miles from Walla-walla, and Clarke’s fork, near the outlet of Kalispe lake; thence along the northern shore of this lake and Clarke’s fork of the Columbia, in a southeasterly direction, recrossing the river near the mouth of the Bitter Root, one of its branches ; and thence nearly due south to the Flathead viliage of St. Mary’s, situated on the St. Mary’s fork of the Bitter Root, thirty miles south of the mouth of the Hellgate river. He proceeded up the valley of the Hellgate or Blackfoot river and the Foospinney, one of its branches, to the Blackfoot pass in the Rocky mountains. This pass is situated about ninety miles from Fort Benton, near the sources of the Teton and Medicine rivers. He crossed the mountains through this pass, and met Governor Stevens and his party at Fort Benton. From Fort
, Benton he went down the Missouri river to St. Louis—in a keel-boat as far as Fort Leavenworth.
Lieutenant Donelson, with the main party, passed over Lieutenant
Saxton’s route from Fort Benton to Fort Vancouver. Dr. Suckley went
down the river, from St. Mary’s valley, in a canoe, from the Flathead village to Fort Colville. Captain McClellan explored the country on both sides of the Cascade range northward from Vancouver; he met Governor Stevens’s parties at Fort Colville, and then continued his expedition as far north as our northern boundary line. Lieutenant Mullen went from Fort Benton to St. Mary’s village by the Jefferson fork of Missouri. He remained at St. Mary’s village during the winter, continuing his explorations as far north as the Flathead lake, and southward to Fort Hall. After continuing in the mountains for nearly a year, he returned to Olympia in the winter of 185455. Lieutenant Macfeely returned from St. Mary’s village to Fort Vancouver by the southern Nez Percé trail down the valley of Kooskooskie and Little Salmon rivers. Mr. Tinkham, civil engineer, accompanied Governor Stevens’s party as tar as St. Mary’s village, and recrossed the Rocky mountains to Fort Mis. Doc. 24——6

<<<Page: 350>>>

Benton, and surveyed the Marias pass, situated to the north of the Blacktoot or Cadot’s pass, and proceeded to Olympia, Washington Territory, by a new route through some pass in the Cascade mountains. Lieutenant Grover was to make an accurate survey of the Missouri river from the Falls to the mouth of the Yellow Stone, and then across the Rocky mountains, in mid-winter on snow shoes, by the route Lieutenant Saxton followed. His object was to test the climate in the mountains during the most unfavorable season of the year. Mr. Doty was left at Fort Benton to make meteorological and other observations during the winter. He remained until the autumn of 1854, when he proceeded to Washington Territory, and joined Governor Stevens.
Most of these parties were provided with the means of making observations and collections in natural and physical science, and all have faithfully carried out their instructions.
Dr. Suckley, surgeon and naturalist to the main party, accompanied Governor Stevens as far as the Flathead village, and thence down the river, as described.
Dr. J. G. Cooper acted in the same capacity in connexion with Captain McClellan’s expedition. Both these gentlemen, aided by the officers and assistants of the command, were occupied the whole time in making extensive collections of the highest interest. Lieutenant Donelson, with the party under bis command, in proceeding up the Missouri to Fort Union, spared no exertion to accomplish the same object, and gathered a large collection of plants and of specimens in alcohol.
Dr. Evans, United States geologist for Oregon, accompanied by Dr. B. F. Shumard, visited the Mauvaises Terres of Nebraska, in connexion with Governor Stevens’s exploration, and collected a very extensive series of the fossil mammals and chelonians of that region, embracing several species not previously found by him. He arrived in Oregon late in 1853, and has since been engaged in completing his
regular explorations of the geology of Oregon and Washington, with _
very important results.
Since the completion of the survey,’ Dr. Suckley and Dr. Coop
have continued their explorations most energetically. The forme spent several months at Steilacoom, on Puget’s Sound, as United States surgeon of the post, and then went to the Dalles, from which point he accompanied a party sent to Fort Boisé, to chastise some Indians. Dr. Cooper has been most of his time at Shoal-water bay. Both of these gentlemen have collected and sent home, from their respective stations, very valuable and extensive series of animals and plants, with important notes on their habits and peculiarities.
2. Survey of the route near the 38th parallel, under the late Captain Gunnison, and continued by Lieutenant Beckwith.
The party of Captain J. W. Gunnison originally consisted of himself in command, Lieutenant EK. G. Beckwith, commissary and quartermaster; It. N. Kern, topographer and draughtsman; J. H. Peters and T. L. Homans, assistant engineers; Dr. Scheel, surgeon and mineralogist; I’. Kreutzfeldt, botanist and draughtsman; together with an escort

<<<Page: 351>>>

of thirty men, commanded by Captain Morris, United States rifles. . The party was organized at camp Shawnee Reservation, on the 20th of June, and proceeded up the Sandy Hill fork of the Kansas, and then across to the Arkansas, and up to the Abispah. After exploring this region, they crossed over on the 'Trincheres, and next to the Huerfano, thence across the mountains to the head of the Sangre del Cristo Pass, and down the valley of this stream to Fort Massachusetts. From this point they passed up the valley of San Luis, through Cooachotope pass, and down to Grand river of the Colorado; along it, past the Uncompagre and Aoonakara. Beyond this they struck the old Spanish trail, and after crossing Green river left it and passed through Wahsatch pass, for Sevier river, and down this river nearly to Sevier lake. While exploring the regions about this lake, nearly the whole of the scientific corps, consisting of Captain Gunnison, Mr. Kern, Mr. Kreutzfeldt, and several other persons, were surprised by a party of the Pah Utahs, on the morning of the 26th of October, 1855, and all put to death. Science has much to deplore in the loss of these gentlemen, all so well known previously for their intrepid zeal as explorers: Captain Gunnison, in connexion with Captain Stansbury’s survey of Great Salt Lake; and Mr. Kern as the companion of Colonel Frémont, Captain Simpson, Captain Sitgreaves, Lt. Parke, and others. Mr. Kreutzfeldt was also a member of the memorable party of Colonel Frémont, which met with such sad disasters in the region of his latest exploration.
Most of the instruments and papers of the party were captured by the Indians, but afterwards given up; and the command devolving on Lieutenant Beckwith, he spent the winter at Salt Lake city, and in the spring of 1854 proceeded across to California bya new route. He returned in September, and is now engaged in completing his report. He brought with him a valuable collection of specimens.
3. Survey of the route near the 35th parallel of latitude, under Lieutenant Whipple.
The third railroad party was commanded by Lieutenant A. W. Whipple, formerly connected with the survey of the Mexican boundary. His party consisted of Lieutenant J. C. Ives, principal assistant; Dr. J. M. Bigelow, surgeon and botanist ; Jules Marcou, geologist ; Dr. C. B. R. Kennerly, surgeon and zodlogist; H. B. Méllhausen, topographer and artist; Hugh Campbell, astronomer; Albert H. Campbell, engineer; together with Messrs. White, Garner, Hutton, Sherburne, and Parke. Lieutenant Ives, with Dr. Kennerly and Mr. Hugh Campbell, were detailed to go by Indianola and San Antonio, to El Paso, for the purpose of securing certain instruments left there, after which they Joined Lieutenant Whipple at Albuquerque. The main party went from Fort Smith mainly up the Canadian, and across the Llano Estacado, to Anton Chico. Here it divided, Mr. Albert Campbell, with the main party, proceeding directly to Albuquerque, via Laguna; Lieutenant Whipple pursuing a somewhat different route; and all the parties, including that of Lieutenant Ives, meeting at Albuquerque, on the 26th of October. From Albuquerque they went over to the Little Colorado, via the Pueblo of Zuni; next by way of the San Francisco

<<<Page: 352>>>

mountains to Bill Williams’s fork; down this stream to the Colorado, then up the Mohave, and across to San Francisco. The party returned to the United Statesin April, 1854, with the exception of Dr. Bigelow, the botanist, who remained a few months longer exploring the Sierra Nevada.
The collections in every department were very large, and included many new and rare species.
4. Survey of the several partial routes on the Pacific side under Lieutenant Williamson.
The fourth of the principal government parties for the survey of the Pacific railroad route is that of Lieutenant R. 8. Williamson, accompanied by Lieutenant J. G. Parke as assistant, William P. Blake as geologist, and Dr. A. L. Heermann as surgeon and naturalist, together with a skillful artist and civil engineer. ‘The escort was commanded by Lieutenant Stoneman. The party started from San Francisco and passed up the San Joaquin and Tulare valley, and explored the region about Walker’s Pass, and along the Mohave over to the Colorado. They also examined the Tejon Pass, the Canada de las Uvas, the Cajon, the Gorgona and Caliente passes of the coast range. Lieutenant Williamson returned in the latter part of 1854, and is now engaged in preparing his report, to include notices of many interesting collections m natural history.
5. Survey near the 32d parallel of latitude, western end, under Lieutenant Parke.
After the completion of the survey of Lieutenant Williamson, Lieutenant Parke, accompanied by Lieutenant Stoneman and Dr. Heermann, started from San Diego in January, 1854, and proceeded by way of Warner’s Ranch to camp Yuma at the mouth of the Gila, and thence up this river to the Pima and Maricopa villages, thence to Tucson, Fort Webster, Dona Ana and Trentera. This point was reached on the 24th of March, the entire distance from San Diego having been traversed with wagons in about sixty days. Here the exploration terminated, and the party proceeded rapidly home via San Antonio, reaching Washington in May, 1854.
In October, 1854, Lieutenant Parke again returned to California for the purpose of making further surveys.. He was accompanied by Mr. Albert H. Campbell, civil engineer; Dr. Antisele, surgeon and geologist; H. Campbell, G. G. Garner, and N. H. Hutton, assistants. Lieutenant Parke will organize his expedition at Benicia, with all possible dispatch, and proceed to explore the Salinas river, from the Bay of Monterey to its sources, with a view of finding a practicable passage through the coast range into the Mohave basin, or into the valley of Los Angeles. Further examinations will also be made of the Mohave river, in the vicinity of the Colorado, on Lieutenant Whipple’s route. Returning thence, this party will start from San Diego and go across to El Paso, on the Rio Grande, by the route south of the Gila.

<<<Page: 353>>>

6. Survey near the 32d parallel of latitude, eastern end, under Captain John Pope.
Captain Pope, accompanied by Lieutenant Garrard, Captain Taflin, and Dr. Diffenderfer, with an escort under the command of Lieuienant Marshall, left El Paso on the 20th of February, for Preston, 'Texas, for the purpose of completing the survey of the 32d parallel, prosecuted at the western end by Lieutenant Parke. The line followed was nearly straight except through the Guadalupe mountains. The Pecos was passed near the mouth of Delaware creek, and the Llano Estacado traversed for a distance of one hundred and twenty-five miles. From this the party proceeded via head waters of Brazos and Colorado, arriving in Preston about the middle of May. The natural history collections made were very extensive and valuable, including, as they did, a portion of those gathered by Dr. T. C. Henry, U.S. A., in New Mexico, during a period of several years. Captain Pope has since returned to the Llano Estacado, for the purpose of experimenting upon Artesian borings in the desert. He is accompanied by Dr. G. G. Shumard, as surgeon and geologist, well known in connexion with explorations by Captain Marcy.
Exploration of Colonel Frémont.
In order to test the depth of winter snow along the central route traversed by Captain Gunnison and Messrs. Beale and Heap, Colonel Frémont started late in the season, and on the 25th of November was still below the mouth of the Huerfano. Entering the mountain region on the Huerfano on the 3d of December, he emerged from it, and reached the Little Salt settlement on the 9th of February, having found but four inches of snow in the Coochetope Pass on the 14th of December. From Parowan he proceeded to San Francisco, and has since then been engaged in preparing a report on the results of his trip.
Expedition of Messrs. Beale and Heap.
Lieutenant E. F. Beale, superintendent-of Indian affairs in California, about to return to the scenes of his philanthropic labors among the Indians, in the vicinity of Tejon Pass, embraced the occasion to make the journey over land by the central route. He was in company with Mr. G. H. Heap. They left Westport, Missouri, on the 6th of May, and proceeded to Fort Atkinson on the Arkansas, crossing the head waters of the Osage and the Neosho. From this point they passed up the Arkansas to the Huerfano, and proceeded to the Mormon settlements near Little Salt lake and the vegas of Santa Clara, very nearly on the route pursued by Captain Gunnison, excepting that they went up the Huerfano instead of the Abispah. From the vegas they pursued the old Spanish trail leading from Abiquiu across the desert of the Mohave, and thence to Los Angeles, where they arrived on the 22d of August, making a distance of 1,852 miles from Westport in 100 days. Some of the party had travelled 715 miles more in going to Taos and back, in consequence of the loss of stores. The party was at one time in

<<<Page: 354>>>

imminent danger of collision with the same band of Indians that afterwards massacred Captain Gunnison.
J. Soulé Bowman.
Mr. Bowman left Kansas the 20th of May, 1853, on his journey to California, and travelling up the Kansas river crossed it at the Baptist mission, and proceeded to Salt Lake city, via Fort Kearney and Fort Laramie. Leaving Salt Lake city on the 29th of July, he proceeded to Humboldt river, passing down its north side to the sink. From the sink he took the Truckee river route, and thence, by Beckwith’s cut off to Bidwell’s bar and Marysville. Shortly after his arrival in San Francisco he was attacked with the typhoid fever, which carried him off ina few days. Mr. Bowman’s untimely end is greatly to be lamented, not only as a citizen, relative, and friend, but as a man of science. For many years he has embraced every opportunity for making collections in natural history, even under the most unfavorable circumstances.
In a previous report jloration into waters too shallow for the larger vessel. This vessel : as been engaged since her arrival in Paraguay in making the mtended explorations, as well as in protecting American interests in that quarter, and the collections made and sent home have added much to our knowledge of the natural history of the country.
Expedition of Lieutenant MacRae, United States Navy.
At the termination of the observations of the United States naval astronomical expedition in Chile, Lieutenant MacRae was instructed by Lieutenant Gilliss to cross the Uspallata pass of the Andes, and the pampas of the Argentine confederation, for the purpose of ascertaining the law of decrease of magetical intensity with elevation, the atmospheric condition of the higher Andes, the geography of the priucipally travelled route between Mendoza and Buenos Ayres, and other important facts interesting to men of science. He succeeded in making observations for all the magnetic elements at stations differing in eleva

<<<Page: 355>>>

tion 3,000 feet, both ascending and descending the Cordilleras, and at each 100 miles in crossing the pampas. Having accidentally broken his barometer and injured his chronometer, shortly after leaving Mendoza, Lieutenant MacRae, as soon as he arrived in the United States, volunteered to return at his own expense for the purpose of completing observations which the loss of these instruments prevented him from doing on his first trip. Permission being granted by the Navy Department, he again embarked for South America, reached Mendoza from Buenos Ayres in time to observe the solar eclipse of November 30, 1853; twice crossed the Portillo pass at an elevation of 14,319 feet ; again passed over the Cumbre and Uspallata passes, 12,656 feet; and finally returned to the United States in March, 1854.
Lieutenant MacRae made such collections in natural history as his limited opportunities allowed; among them anew species of the curious genus Trichomycterus. He also procured several fine specimens of Cavia australis.
The report of his journeys will be found embodied in the first volume of the report of the United States naval astronomical expedition.
Japan Expedition.
Although not specially an exploring party, yet the magnitude of the squadron sent out under charge of Commodore Perry, and the importance of the interests committed to his charge, render a brief notice necessary in this place. The principal object of the expedition was to form a treaty with the emperor of Japan for the protection of American interests in and about the island, as well as to look after these interests generally in that quarter of the globe. The squadron, under command of Commodore Perry, consisted of the steamers Mississippi, Powhatan, and Susquehanna; the sloops of war Macedonia, Plymouth, Saratoga, and Vandalia; and the store ships Supply, Southampton, and Lexingington. With a portion of this fleet Commodore Perry arrived at Jeddp bay on the 8th of July, and, after a brief interview with one of the ministers of state, lefi, to return in the spring of 1854. Of the happy results of this renewed visit, and of the treaty made with such important bearings on commerce and humanity, I need not here speak, as they are well known to every one... Commodore Perry has returned to the United States, bringing with him copious journals of the voyage, with numerous drawings, and many collections illustrating the natural products and manufactures of Japan. Collections of plants, seeds, reptiles, and fishes, of much interest, were also made by Dr. James Morrow, agriculturist to the expedition.
Brig Dolphin.
Lieutenant O. H. Berryman, in command of the brig Dolphin, has been engaged in a continuation of his previous labors and those of Lieutenant Lee of sounding the depths of the Atlantic Ocean, in connexion with the researches of Lieutenant Maury on the winds and cur-
rents of the ocean. His results have been of the highest interest to science, as well as of very great practical value to the navigator. ‘The

<<<Page: 356>>>

report by Lieutenant Lee of his observations while in command of the Dolphin has recently been published by Congress.
Arctic Expedition under Doctor Kane.
The brig Advance which with her consort, the Rescue, had joined in 1850 the band of searchers for the long lost Sir John Franklin, was again fitted out and commissioned for a renewed effort in that direction, under command of Dr. E. K. Kane, the intrepid surgeon and annalist of the first or the Grinnell expedition. The Advance, liberally lent for the purpose by her owner, Mr. Henry Grinnell, was provided with all the means necessary for resisting the vigor of an arctic winter, and for making various deeply interesting observations in natural and pliysical science in the polar regions. The Smithsonian Institution furnished a complete set of magnetical apparatus, besides fitting out the entire natural history equipment; and the funds necessary for the general expenses were supplied. by Mr. Grinnell and by private subscriptions. Doctor Kane intended to have particular attention paid to the Acalephes and crustacea of the arctic seas, as well as to the collection of skeletons of cetaceans and pinnipedians. Mr. Henry Goodfellow has charge of the natural history department; Dr. I. I. Hayes is surgeon, and Augustus Sontag, astronomer. The entire force consisted of but seventeen men. Dr. Kane proposed to visit Uppernavik, and there procure the necessary dogs and Eskimos for an overland journey, to -be fully provided with these as well as with suitable dresses of furs, &c. His intention was to go directly to Smith’s Sound at the foot of Baffin’s bay, and, passing up the Sound to as great a distance as possible, seek a secure harbor for the winter. He then expected to take his sledgeboats, and with seven men, besides the Eskimos, proceed by land or water, as the case might require, ina direction due north as far as circumstances would allow.
The vessel left New York on the 31st of May, and the latest dates from Dr. Kane were from Uppernavik to July 20, 1853. He had sueceeded in obtaining what he needed for his onward march, and expected to start immediately for the north.
Since then nothing has been heard from him, and Congress has authorized an expedition for his succor.
Exploration of the coast of Western Africa, by Lieutenant W. F. Lynch, United States Navy.
Commander W. F. Lynch, United States navy, who left the United States in November, 1852, on a reconnoissance of the coast of western Africa, preparatory to a more extended exploration at some subsequent period, returned on the 1st of May, 1853, having been busily engaged, during the greater part of the interval, in prosecuting the object of his mission. He examined a large portion of the coast of Liberia, and went up a number of the rivers. He suffered much from the sickness which is so constant an attendant of the white man on that coast, and which caused an abrupt termination of his labors. He recommends that any future exploring party should consist almost entirely of citizens of Libe-

<<<Page: 357>>>

ria, organized under the flag of the United States; and that the whites should ride out the fever at Monrovia, on account of the existence of suitable accommodations there. The proper rendezvous for the inland march he considers to be Millsburg, at the head of navigation of the St. Paul’s, whence the route should extend va Boporah, an important native town, to the range separating the tributaries of the Niger from those which flow into the Atlantic. That range attained, it is to be followed to the parallel of Cape Palmas, and thence to the sea. A full report of the exploration of Commander Lynch is presented in the annual report of the Secretary of the Navy for the first session of the thirty-third Congress.
Darien Ship Canal Expedition.
A survey of the Isthmus of Darien, in reference to the project of uniting the waters of the Atlantic and Pacific by a ship canal, was undertaken under the joint auspices of the English, French, and American governments.
The English expedition sailed for the Isthmus on the 17th of December, 1853, and arrived at Caledonia bay on the 19th of January. It consisted of the brig Espiegle and the survey schooner Scorpion, the former having on board Mr. Gisborne, Dr. Cullen, and Messrs. Forde and Bennett, with four assistant engineers, on the part of the Atlantic and Pacific Junction company, and of Lieutenant Singer, R. E., and staff, in behalf of the British government. 'The French steamer Chimere joined them, at the same time, with a scientific corps. The United States sloop-of-war Cyane, under Captain Hollins, had reached Caledonia bay on the 8th of January ; and, after some preparation, a party under command of Lieutenant Strain, of the United States navy, started out to make the transit. Losing their way, and suffering greatly for want of proper food and water, a number perished, and it was only through the aid of an English party from the Virago that Lieutenant Strain and a few of his men were saved from destruction. The British steamer Virago, Captain Preevorst, attempted the transit from the Pacific side, and reached a point commanding a view of the Atlantic. From the facts gathered by the different parties, it appears conclu-
sively that a canal is impracticable in the region where that survey was made.
Exploration of the Valley of the Amazon.
Messrs. Herndon and Gibbon, of the United States navy, after completing the survey of the valley of the Amazon, returned some time ago, and have published their general report. This contains much that is entertaining and novel, and several large editions have already been called for by Congress.
Exploration by Mr. Scrope.
In December, 1852, Mr. Thomas H. Scrope, an enterprising young gentleman of New York, left Para in a steamer for the town of Loretto,

<<<Page: 358>>>

on the Peruvian Amazon, about 3,000 miles from Para. He took with him everything necessary to make collections in natural history, and has signified his intention of spending as much time as possible in gathering specimens of the animals and plants of that little known region. Nothing has since been heard from him.
Dr. Thomas Steele.
Dr. Thomas Steele, a missionary of the American Colonization Society, left in the packet Shirley, in November, 1853, for Cape Palmas. He intended there to make such collections as were indicated to him as of particular interest, for which purpose a quantity of alcohol was sent out to him by the Smithsonian Institution. Some important collections were sent home by him, and it is with much regret that we are informed of his recent death by fever.
REPORTS OF EXPLORATIONS PUBLISHED IN 1853, 1854. A—Government Reports.
Captain L. Sitgreaves, U. S. A.—Report of an Expedition down the Zuni and Colorado rivers, by Captain L. Sitgreaves, United States Topographical Engineers, accompanied by maps, views, sketches, and illustrations. Washington: Robert Armstrong, public printer, 1853. Public document, 32d Congress, 2d session, Senate executive No. 59, one volume 8vo., pp. 198, 78 plates, and one map. An edition was also published by the House.
This report is principally occupied by an account of the natural history of the region traversed by Captain Sitgreaves in this and a previous exploration. The mammals and birds are by Dr. Woodhouse, surgeon and naturalist to the expedition: the reptiles by Dr. Kdward Hallowell; the fishes by S. F. Baird and C. Girard; and the plants by Dr. Torrey. Six new species are described of North American mammals, five of birds, eighteen of reptiles, three of fishes, and ten of plants.
Captain R. B. Marcy, U. 8. A—Exploration of the Red river of Louisiana, in the year 1852, by Randolph B. Marcy, captain 5th infantry, United States army, assisted by George B. McClellan, Brevet Captain, United States Engineers, with reports of the natural history of the country, and numerous illustrations. Washington: Robert Armstrong, public printer, 1853, two vols. 8vo., pp. 320, 66 plates and two maps. 32d Congress, 2d session, Senate executive No. aA.
This report includes sub-reports on the minerals, by Professor C. U. Shepard; on the geology of the expedition, by President Hitchcock and George G. Shumard, M. D.; on the palontology, by B. F. Shumard, M. D.; on the mammals, by Captain Marcy; the reptiles and fishes, by S. F. Baird, and C. Girard; the shells, by Professor C. B. Adams and G. G. Shumard; the orthoptera, arachnida, and myriapoda,
by C. Girard; the plants, by Dr. Torrey; and the ethnology by Cap

<<<Page: 359>>>

tain Marcy and Professor W. W. Turner. Fourteen new species of fossils are described, five of reptiles, five of fishes, ten of orthoptera, arachnida and myriapoda, and three of plants, all of which are figured. Dr. G. G. Shumard acted as surgeon and naturalist, and the collections were made principally by him and Captain McClellan.
Lieutenants Herndon and Gibbon, U. S. N.—Exploration of the valley of the Amazon, made under direction of the Navy Department, by William Lewis Herndon and Lardner Gibbon, lieutenants, United States navy.
Part 1. By Lieutenant Herndon, 2 vols. 8vo. Washington: Robert Armstrong, public printer, 1853, pp. 418, 16 plates and three maps. 32d Congress, 2d session, Senate executive No. 36.
Part 2. By Lieutenant Gibbon, 2 vols. 8vo. Washington: Robert Armstrong, public printer.
Some interesting collections in natural history were made by these gentlemen, but not published in their reports.
Lieutenant S. P. Lee, U. S. N—Report and charts of the cruise of the United States brig Dolphin, made under direction of the Navy Department, by Lieutenant Lee, 2 vols .8vo. Washington: Beverley Tucker, printer to the Senate, 1854. 15 charts and one map. 33d Congress, Ist session, Senate executive No. 59.
Captain W. EF. Lynch, U.S. N.—Official report of a mission to Africa in 1852, 1853; pp. 329—366 of the report of the Secretary of the Navy, in President’s message for 33d Congress, Ist session. Part II, 1853.
Professor A. D. Bache-—Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, showing the progress of the survey during the year 1852. One vol., 4to. Washington: Robert Armstrong, public printer, 1853. Pp. 184 and 37 plates.
Professor A. D. Bache—Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, showing the progress of the survey during the year 1853. One vol., 4to. Washington: Robert Armstrong, public printer. Pp. 278, and 54 plates.
H. R. Schoolcraft, LL. D.—Intormation respecting the History, Condition and Prospects of the Indian tribes of the United States ; collected and prepared under the direction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs per act of Congress of March 3, 1847, by Henry R. Schoolcraft. [lustrated by 8. Eastman, Capt. U. 8. A. Published by authority of Congress ———. Part III, 4to., 1853, pp. 636 and 45 plates. Part IV, 4to., 1854, pp. 668 and 41 plates.
These volumes, in addition to the subjects specially covered by the title, contain valuable journals of expeditions by officers of the United States army and others, at various periods of time.
Pacific Railroad Surveys——Letter ‘from the Secretary of War transmitting reports of surveys, &c., of railroad routes to the Pacific ocean, made February 6, 1854. 8vo., pp. 118. 33d Congress, Ist session, Ex. doc. No. 46.
This contains the partial reports from the several expeditions, all of them still in the field at the date of the report.
Report upon the northern Pacific railroad exploration and survey, by Gov. I. I. Stevens, made June 30, 1854. Pp. 548.
Report of explorations for a railway route near the 35th parallel of

<<<Page: 360>>>

latitude from the Mississippi river to the Pacific ocean, by Lieut. A.W. Whipple, corps of topographical engineers, made July 31, 1854. 8vo., » 154. tT enor of Explorations for that portion of a Railway Route near the 32d parallel of latitude, lying between Dona Ana on the Rio Grande, and the Pima village on the Gila, by Lieut. Jno. G. Parke, U. 8. A., of corps topographical engineers. Made August 22, 1854. 8vo., pp. 32. The above are all the railroad reports published in 1854, the remainder not being finished till 1855. ‘The maps accompanying the reports were not finished in 1854.
B—Private reports.
Dr. E. K. Kane, U. S. N.—The United States Grinnell Expedition in search of Sir John Franklin. A personal narrative. By Elisha Kent Kane, M. D., U.S. N. New York: Harper and Bros. 1 vol., Svo. 1853.
John R. Barilett—Personal narrative of Explorations and Incidents in Texas, New Mexico, California, Sonora, and Chihuahua, connected with the United States and Mexican Boundary Commission in 1850-53. By John Russell Bartlett, United States Commissioner during that period; with maps and illustrations. 2 vols., 8vo., 1854. New York: D. Appleton & Co.
G. H. Heap.—Central route to the Pacific, from the valley of the Mississippi to California. Journal of the expedition of E. F. Beale, Superintendent of Indian Affairs in California, and Gwinn Harris Heap, from Missouri to California, in 1853. By Gwinn Harris Heap. Philadelphia: Lippincott, Grambo, & Co. 1 vol.,8vo. 1854. With map and illustrations.
Lieut. J. G. Strain, U. S. N.—Report of the Darien expedition. Harper’s Magazine for March, April, and May, 1855.
Lieut. J. M. Gilliss, U. S. N—Report of the United States naval astronomical expedition in Chile. This report will occupy several volumes quarto, and contain much matter on the natural history of the country.
Commodore M. C. Perry, U. S. N.—Report of the Japan expedition.
Captain C. Ringgold, U. S. N.—Report of the Expedition for the exploration of the China seas and Behring’s straits.
Reports of the several parties for survey of railroad routes from the Mississippi river to the Pacific ocean. These will embrace the government expeditions under Gov. IL. I. Stevens, Lieut. A. W. Whipple, Lieut. E. G. Beckwith, Lieut. R. 8. Williamson, Lieut. J. G. Parke and Capt. J. Pope, with the private ones of Col. J. C. Frémont and Mr. Lander.
A. B. Gray.—Report and map of surveys in New Mexico, &c.
Professor A. D. Bache-—Report of the superintendent of the United States Coast Survey during the year 1854.
H. R. Schoolcraft, LL. D.—History and Statistics of the Indian

<<<Page: 361>>>

tribes of the United States. Parts V and VI. The sixth and last part is to contain an abstract or synopsis of the whole work.
The record of explorations for the year will be incomplete without brief reference to the numerous researches and collections made at different points in North America, the results of which have come to the knowledge of the Institution. Few have any conception of the amount of quiet ‘investigation in natural history now going on in this country, principally by persons laboriously engaged in other duties and using only scattered intervals of leisure. ‘The records of the Tastitunion almost daily receive entries of contributions of facts and specimens of natural history from such sources.
Some general remarks and notices on this subject will be found detailed in the report on additions to the museum in 1854. I would, however, make a particular reference to the labors of Lieutenant W. P. Trowbridge, United States army, who, while successfully prosecuting his duty as tidal observer on the Pacific coast, in connexion with the United States Coast Survey, has employed his leisure moments in forming one of the largest collections of natural history ever made in this country. In this he has been zealously aided by Messrs. Cassidy, Szabo, and others, members of his parties.
Mr. R. D. Cutts, likewise connected with the Coast Survey, has also made some interesting collections on the coast of California and transmitted them to the Institution; and a gentleman of the same branch of the public service, Mr. Gustavus Wurdemann, has supplied one of the fullest series of the animals of the Louisiana gulf coast ever received by the Institution. It is a subject of profound congratulation. that while exhausting every department of physical research in connexion with the survey of our coast, the distinguished superintendent encourages his assistants to pay all possible attention to the various branches of natural science, recognising fully their connexion with those more immediately belonging to the survey. One effect has been the gathering together of vast materials illustrating the marine ‘anennee and microscopic shells of our coast, which have ‘already been; examined with important hydregraphical results.
Mis. Doc. 24———7

<<<Page: 362>>>

No. I—THE CAMEE.
The first command addressed to man by his Creator, and substantially repeated to the second great progenitor of our race, not only charged him to subdue the earth, but gave him dominion over all terrestrial creatures, whether animate or inanimate, and thus predicted and prescribed the subjugation ef the entire organic and inorganic world to human control and human use.
Man is yet far from having achieved the fulfilment of this grand mission. He has, indeed, surveyed the greater part of his vast domain ; marked the outline of its solid and its fluid surface, and approximately measured their areas and determined their relative elevation; pierced its superficial strata, and detected the order of their historical succes~ sion; reduced to their primal elements its rocks, its soils, its waters, and its atmosphere, and even soared above its canopy of cloud. He has traced, through the void of space, its movements of rotation, revolution, and translation; resolved the seeming circles of its attendant satellite into strangely tortuous paths of progression ; investigated its relations of density, attraction, and motion, to other visible and invisible cosmical orbs; and unfolded the laws of those mysterions allied agencies, heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, whose sphere of influence seems commensurate with that of creation. But, notwithstanding these triumphs, earth is not yet all his own; and millions of teagues of her surface still lie uninhabited, unenjoyed, and unsubdued—yielding neither food, nor clothing, nor shelter to man, or even to the humbler tribes
of animal or vegetable life, which, in other ways, minister to his neees~
sities or his convenience.
In like manner, man has studied the biography, and the relations of
affinity or dependence, of the infinitely varied contemporaneous forms of organic life; traced the history of myriads of species of both plants and enimals, which had ceased to be before the Creator breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and demonstrated the past and present existence of numerous tribes of organic beings, too minute to be individually coguizable by any of the unaided senses, and yet largely influencing our own animal economy, and even composing no unimportant part.ef the crust of the solid globe; but of the vegetables that clothe and diversify its soil, of the animated creatures that float in its atmosphere, enliver its surface, or cleave its waters, but comparatively few have as yet been rendered in any way subservient to human use, fewer

<<<Page: 363>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 99 still domesticated and made the permanent and regular denizens of his fields or companions of his household.
The efforts of civilized man towards the fulfilment of this great command have been directed almost exclusively to the conquest of inorganic nature, by the utilization of minerals; by contriving methods for availing himself of the mechanical powers and of natural torces, simply or in cunning combinations; by cutting narrow paths for facilitating travel and transport between distant regions; and by devising means of traversing with certainty and speed the trackless and troubled ocean.
The proper savage smelts no ores, and employs those metals only which natural processes have reduced. He binds the blocks of which he rears his temples with no cement of artificial stone. He drains no swamps, cuts no roads, excavates no canals, turns no mills by power of water or of wind, and asks from inorganic nature no other gifts than those which she spontaneously offers, to supply his wants and multiply his enjoyments.
On the other hand, the very dawn of social life, in those stages of human existence which quite precede all true civilization, demands, as an indispensable condition, not the mere usufruct of the spontaneous productions of organic nature, but the complete appropriation and domestication of many species of both plants and animals. Man begins by subjugating, and thereby preserving, those organic forms which are at once best suited to satisfy his natural wants, and, like himself, least fitted for a self-sustaining, independent existence ;* and he is to end by extending his conquests over the more widely dissimilar, remote, and refractory products of creative nature. We accordingly owe to our primeval, untutored ancestors, the discovery, the domestication, the acclimation of our cereal grains, our edible roots, our improved fruits, as well as the subjugation of our domestic animals; while civilized man has scarcely reclaimed a plant of spontaneous growth, or added a newly tamed animal to the flocks and herds of the pastoral ages. Indeed, so remote is the period to which these noble triumphs of intelligent humanity over brute and vegetable nature belong, that we know not their history or their epochs; and if we believe them to be in fact human conquests, and not rather special birth-day gifts from the hand of the Creator, we must admit that cultivation and domestication have so com-
etely metamorphosed and diversified the forms and products, and modified the habits, and even, so to speak, the inborn instincts of both vegetables and animals, that but the fewest of our household beasts and our familiar plants can be certainly identified with the primitive stock. Most of these, it is probable, no longer occur in their wild state and original form; and it is questionable whether they are even capable of continued existence without the fostering care of man.
In both these great divisions of organic life there are some species
* It is not the domestic animals alone whose existence is perpetuated by the protective, though often unconscious, agency of man. In the depths of our northern forests the voice of the song-bird, or of the smaller quadrupeds, is but seldom heard. It is in the fields tilled by human husbandry that they find the most abundant nutriment, and the surest retreat from bird and beast of prey. he vast flights of the wild pigeon are found, not in the remote, primitive woodlands, but along the borders of the pioneer settlements ; and, upon our western frontier, it is observed that the deer often multiply for a time after the coming in of the whites, because the civilized huntsman destroys or scares away the wolf, the great natural enemy of the weaker quadrupeds.

<<<Page: 364>>>

peculiarly suited to the uses of man as a migratory animal. The bread stuffs of the a world, and, in a less degree, our only American cereal,
Indian corn, the pulse, the Rd aneeere plants, and the edible roots of our gardens, as well as the horse, the dog, the sheep, and the swine, seem almost exempted from subjection to climatic laws. While, there~ fore, a degree of latitude, a few hundred feet of elevation, a trifling dif
ference in soil, or in the amount of atmospheric humidity, oppose impassable barriers to the diffusion of most wild plants and animals, the domesticated species I have enumerated follow man in his widest wanderings, and make his resting-place their home, whether he dwells on a eeanent or an island, at the level of the sea or on the margin of Alpine snows, beneath the equator or among the frosts of the polar circle.
Others, again, of the domesticated families of the organic world seem, like ane untamed tribes, inexorably confined within prescribed geographical bounds, and incapable of propagation or growth beyond their original fimits; while others still, though comparatively independent of climate and of soil, are nevertheless so specially fitted to certain conditions of surface, and certain modes of human life, to the maintenance of which they are themselves indispensable, that even the infidel finds, in these mutual adaptations, proofs of the existence and beneficent agency of a self-conscious and intelligent creative power.
Among the animated organisms of this latter class, the camel is, doubtless, the most important and remarkable. The Ship of the Desert has navigated the pathless sand-oceans of Gobi and the Sahara, and thus not “only extended the humanizing influences of commerce and civilization alike over the naked and barbarous African and the fur-clad Siberian savage, but, by discovering the hidden wells of the waste and the islands of Verdure that surround. them, has made permanently habitable vast regions not otherwise penetrable by man. The ‘ howling wilderness’? now harbors and nourishes numerous tribes in more or less advanced stages of culture; and the services of that quadruped, on which Rebekah journeyed to meet her spouse, and which, though neglected and despised by the polished Egyptian, constituted a princi-
pal item in the rural wealth of the father of Joseph, are as indispensaae to these races, as are those of any other animal to man in any condition of society.
The camel lives and thrives in the tropics ; through almost the whole breadth of the northern temperate zone; and is even met beyond Lake Baikal in conjunction with the reindeer, with which, among some of the northern tribes, he has exchanged offices, the deer serving asa beast of the saddle, while the camel is employed only for draught or burden.* But his appropriate home is the desert, and it is here Talene that he acquires his true significance and value, his remarkable powers being the necessary condition and sole means by which man has in any degree extended his dominion over the Libyan and the Arabian wildernesses.
In presence of the improvements of more advanced stages of society, the camel diminishes in numbers and finally gives place to other animals better suited to the wants and the caprices of higher civilization. Upon good roads, other beasts of draught and burden are upon the whole more serviceable, or, to speak more accurately, more acceptable to the
* Ritter, Erdkunde XIII, 662—667.

<<<Page: 365>>>

tastes of cultivated nations; and the ungainly camel shares in the contempt with which the humble ass, the mule, and even the ox, are regarded by the polished and the proud. Besides this, both the products and the restraints of proper agriculture are unfavorable to his full development and physical perfection. When the soil is enclosed and subjugated, and the coarse herbage and shrubbery of spontaneous growth are superseded by artificial vegetation, he misses the pungent and aromatic juices which flavor the sun-burnt grasses and wild arborescent plants that form his accustomed and appropriate diet; the confinement of fence, and hedge, and stall are repugnant to his roving propensities and prejudical to his health, and he is as much out of place in civilized life as the Bedouin or the Tartar. Hence the attempts to introduce him into Spain, Italy, and other European countries have either wholly failed, or met with very indifferent success; and though he still abounds in Bessarabia, the Crimea, and all the southeastern provinces of Russia. yet the rural improvements which the German colonists have introduced into those regions have tended to reduce his numbers. When the wandering Tartar becomes stationary, encloses his possessions, and converts the desert steppe into arable ground, his camels retreat before the horse, the ox, and the sheep, and retire to the wastes beyond the Don and the Volga. So essentially nomade indeed is the camel in his habits, that the Arab himself dismisses him as soon as he acquires a fixed habitation. The oases of the desert are generally without this animal, and he is not possessed by the Fellahheen of the Sinaitic peninsula, by the inhabitants of Sinah or the oasis of Jupiter Ammon, or by those who cultivate the valleys of Mount Seir.
Of the primitive races of man, known to ancient sacred and profane history, but one, the Bedouin Arab, has retained unchanged his original mode of life. Itisthe camel alone, whose remarkable properties, by making babitable by man regions inaccessible to the improvements of civilization, has preserved to our own times that second act of the great drama of social lite, the patriarchal condition. The Arab in all his changes of faith, heathen, christian, mussulman, has remained himself immutable ; and the student of biblical antiquity must thank the camel for the lively illustrations of scripture history presented by the camp of the Ishmaelite sheikh, who is proud of his kindred with the patient Job, and who boasts himself the lineal descendant of Ibrahim el Khaleel, or Abraham ‘“ the friend” of God.
Naturalists divide the camelinto two species, the Camelus dromedarwus, or one-humped camel of Arabia and Africa, and the Camelus Bactrianus, or two-humped camel of northern Asia.* It bas been suspected that the camel of the Sahara is distinct from that of more northern Africa,
* These geographical limitations, if not strictly accurate are nevertheless sufficiently so for general purposes. Although Host (Efterrettninger om Marokos, 270) saw the twohumped camel at Morocco, and individuals of this species are sometimes met in Syria, yet it is pretty certain that he is not bred in Africa, or in the warmer regions of the Asiatic continent, but properly belongs to northern latitudes. The one-humped camel has a wider range. He is foundamong the Kirghises, andin Tartary, and the highlands of central Asia ; he seems to bear the cold almost as well asthe Bactrian, but he has neither the speed nor the powers of endurance which characterize the dromedary of the African and Arabian deserts. Although neither species probably now exists in a wild state, yet there is good reason to believe that the Bactrian was found wild at no very remote period in the desert of Gobi, where this variety probably originated. Humboldt, Ansichten der Natur, I, 88.

<<<Page: 366>>>

which is pretty certainly of the Arabian stock, and of comparatively late introduction mto that continent;* but this conjecture does not appear to be supported by any direct historical or physiological evidence. The scientific specific designation of the one-humped camel is not well chosen. The term dromas, as applied to the camel by the ancients, Was not used to indicate a specijic difference. 'The camelus dromas was what the proper dromedary is now, that is, simply a running, or swilt camel, used chiefly or altogether for the saddle ; and he might be, as he may be still, of either species, Bactrian or Arabian. In fact, any light-built, easy-paced, and swift-footed camel, of whatever species or variety, 1s a dromedary 3 though there are certain breeds, in which the slender head, tall short body, small hump, clean limbs, and generally livelier color, which characterizes the stock, have become hereditary, Just as similar peculiarities of form are perpetuated in the thorough-bred hunter and race-horse. In popular phraseology, the term dromedary has been to a considerable extent applied to designate a camel with two humps, from an erroneous supposition that the swift riding-camel (deloul al heiri or maherry of the Arabs, haguin or hedjin of the Egyptians) was of that species. This mistake appears to have originated in @ misinterpretation of a passage of Aristotle by Solinus and Theodore Gaza; and the error, though exposed and corrected by Gesner, three hundred years ago, and by almost every. naturalist who has since described the animal, continues to influence the language, and mislead the popular opinion of the nineteenth century.
The varieties comprehended under each of the two species are numerous; but they do not differ from each other in size, in form, or in speed, more widely than the breeds of the common horse. Indeed the anatomical differences between the Arabian and the Bactrian camel are so slight, that some naturalists have maintained their specific identity; and it appears to be certain that the common physiological test of specific difference, the incapacity, namely, of the cross to propagate, does not hold good as applied to this animal.t The skeletons of the two species are distingnishable, if at all, only by a slight difference of proportion; and the visceral structure being tae .-™me in both, the only foundation for a specific distinction appears to be in the number of humps. In the living animal, the species are readily distinguished by their outward peculiarity ; and besides their obvious difference, the Bactrian is shorter limbed and much more hairy than the Arabian camel.
*Minutoli thinks he recognises the head of the camel among the figures upon an obelisk at Luxor. Upon the walls of some of the smaller apartments of the great temple of Karnac are carved heads, which certainly appear to me to resemble that of this animal more closely than ofany other quadruped ; and St John (Adventures in the Libyan Desert, Chap. XII) says he found the camel among the sculptures of the temple at the oasis of Jupiter Ammon. But modern Egyptologists consider some of these figures to represent the head of the lion, others that of the giraffe, and it is certain that no part of the skeleton of the camel has been met with in the catacombs. Although it appears from Strabo, that the tribes of the desert anciently employed the camel in the transport of merchandise between Captos and Berenice, as they do now between Cairo and Suez, yet there 1s abundant evidence to show that this animal was not used by the proper Egyptians before the time of the Ptolemies, nor does it appear to have been known upon the Barbary coast until a much later period. Sec Ritter’s essay, Ueber die geographische Verbreitung des Kameels, Erdkunde XIII, where this question, and almost all others belonging to the geographical distribution of the camel, are discussed with the usual learning and ability of that great writer.
+ Ritter, Erdkunde XIII, 659.

<<<Page: 367>>>

Some writers describe the Bactrian as upon the whole smaller and weaker than the Arabian; but as others state the contrary, the difference in this respect is probably not great. It seems well settled that in countries where the two species exist together, the cross, though inferior to the dromedary in speed, is found to be a more powerful, and for general purposes a more serviceable animal than either of the unmixed races, as possessing in a good degree the most valuable properties of both.*
The general anatomy of the camel is the same as that of other ruminants; but the hump, the horizontal posture of the head, the direction of the eye, the power of closing the nostril, the callosities upon the breast and legs, the spreading and cushioned foot, and above all the curious structure of the stomach, to which he owes his most valuable property, the power of long abstinence from water, distinguish him from all other quadrupeds. The hump is simply a fleshy, or rather fatty, protuberance upon the back, like that of the bison, unsupported by any special bony process, and it is least developed in the highest bred animals, so that the maherry of the Sahara is popularly described as being without that appendage. The fullness of the protuberance, however, depends much upon the condition of the animal. The state of the hump is atest constantly referred to in the sale or hire of the camel, and the jockeys resort to various contrivances to give it an unnatural plumpness and solidity.+ When the camel has been, for a length of time, full fed, and subjected to moderate labor only, the hump assumesa greater plumpness of {drm and hardness of texture; but ifill kept or overworked, the fat of the hump is absorbed, and the protuberance becomes flaccid, and is sometimes even reduced to little more than its skin. It seems to serve as a repository of nutriment, and the absorption of its substance into the general system appears to be one of the special arrangements by which the camel is so admirably fitted for the lite of privation to which he is destined. ¢
The head of the camel, especially of those of the Bisharye and Ababdeh breeds, is carried high and nearly horizontal; and this circumstance, with the length and curvature of the neck, and the outline of the arched back, creates so strong a general resemblance between this quadruped and the ostrich, that the latter is called by the Arabs the camel-bird. The eye is projecting, sheltered above by a very salient bony arch, and its axis is nearly parallel to that of the head, though with a slight inclination towards it anteriorly. From this conformation of the organ, the sight of the animal is habitually directed rather downwards than forward, to the ground upon which he is just about to tread than to the distance. It is, in a great degree, to this structure, as I believe, that his remarkable sure-footedness is to be attributed. The eye always scans the surface where the foot is next
to be placed; and in moving about among the scattered luggage and
*Seea yaluable paper, extracted from the notes of General Harlan, in the Report of the American Patent Office for 1853, Agriculture, p. 61. According to Ritter, Erdkunde XIII, 646, and the authorities there cited, the word Booghdee, used by General Harlan to designate the cross between the Bactrian and Arabian, means the young male Bactrian. General Harlan’s testimony in favor of the strength and power of endurance of the mixed breed is exceedingly strong ; but he appears to undervalue the pure Bactrian, which is certainly found extremely serviceable in European and Asiatic Russia, both for draught and burden, and in those countries, at least, is almost wholly exempt from disease. Fraser, Khorasan, 273.
} Tavernier: Voyages, I. 132. t Carbuccia, 10.

<<<Page: 368>>>

furniture of a camp, he rarely treads on the smallest article. The nostrils are fringed with long hairs, and provided with sphincters, which enable the animal to close them, and thus to exclude insects and the sand with which the desert winds are so often charged, while the hairs, to a considerable extent, perform the same office during the occasional partial opening of the apertures, required for respiration. The Bedouins understand the value of a wide nostril as well asa Newmarket jockey, and they frequently slit the nose of the animal in such a way as to give each aperture the form of a Y. The slitting of the nostrils is a common preparation for a race, and I once saw this absurd operation performed upon a dozen young dromedaries, which were to contend for the prize on the following day.
The camel is provided with seven callosities, which receive the shock of his fall in lying down for repose, or at the command of his master for the convenience of mounting or dismounting, or of loading and unloading, and the weight of the body is supported by them when at rest. One of eee is upon thie breast nearly between the fore legs, two upon each of the fore, and one upon each of the hinder legs. The callosities upon the breast and at the knees are evidently organic, as they consist of a horny substance and are found in the foetus. The others appear to be a mere thickening of the skin, and they may be the effect of friction and pressure. ‘The full development of the callosities is one of the ‘“ points” of a good maherry , and it ought to be accompanied with a slender barrel, so that in the recumbent posture the belly shall scarcely touch the ground.
In lying down the animal throws himself slightly forward, and first bending one fore leg, poises himself for an instant, ‘and then falls suddenly upon the callosities at the knees; he now advances the hind feet a little and drops upon the gambrel joint ; the callus upon the breast is brought to the ground by a third descent, and those upon the upper and forward part of the hind leg by a fourth. Each of these movements, (which are renewed in rising,) and especially the first, 1s attended with a considerable shock ; and the experienced rider is very apt to be thrown over the camel’s head, unless he steadies himself by holding fast to the saddle pins. The Arabs slide down from and climb up to the saddle, without making the animal kneel, or even stopping him, and any active man may readily learn to do the same, but Europeans seldom practice this method. The French soldiers in Algeria use a long stirrup with two steps to mount by, and a loop upon a lance, such as were used by some ancient mounted troops, or attached to a musket, might answer the same purpose.
The foot of the camel is equally adapted to treading upon yielding sand and to climbing the rugged rock, which, in all ceencire ‘des ers; forms a much larger proportion of the surface than accumulations of sand. The surface of the wilderness is in general a hard, compact, gravelly soil, or composed of loose stones or ‘bare rocks, and wherever it is not too hard for wear, or too soft permanently to retain impressions, the valleys pursued by the caravans are furrowed with paths which have been thousands of years in wearing. These tracks are 16 or 18 miles wide, and four or five inches deep, running generally parallel to each other at a couple of yards apart, and now and then inter

<<<Page: 369>>>

tersecting each other. An Arabian poem, older than the time of Mohammed, compares these paths to the stripes of a parti-colored cloak ; and the Arabian traveller of the present day finds the same resemblance between the face of the desert and the “ many colored coat” of its more opulent inhabitants.
The foot is composed of two long toes united by and resting upon an elastic cushion with a tough and horny sole or facing. "The foot spreads upon touching the gr round, somewhat like that of the moose and reindeer, and affords." a Broader support to the weight of the animal than almost any other quadruped is provided with. The camel, therefore, sinks less in the sand than any other large animal; but he nevertheless instinctively avoids it, as a horse does a puddle, and prefers any other surface except mud, loose rolling pebbles, and sharp pointed rocks.* The sole, though of a horny texture, is sufficiently yielding to allow the cushion of the foot to accommodate itself to the inequalities of a rocky surface,t and the camel climbs with facility ascents so steep and rugged, or even so slippery, as to be scaled with difficulty by any other domestic animal. The limestone ledges in the northern portion of the lesser Arabian peninsula are often worn to a glassy smoothness by primitive water currents, or by the attrition of the desert sands, yet the camel traverses them in all directions with entire security. Observing a caravan climb a long ascent of this description in Arabia Petrea, I had the curiosity to Ipeasure the inclination of the rock, and found the angle with the horizon to be fifteen degrees. The surface was every ere almost as slippery as polished marble, and the length of the slope exceeded half a mile ; but the whole caravan of more than fifty camels surmounted it without any accident. The northern slope of the pass of Negabad, on the eastern arm of the Red sea, appears to me even steeper than that I have just described, and the path is as rugged and the zigzags as short as those of almost any of the mule routes over the Alps, but it is constantly crossed by loaded caravans without difficulty. But these are trifles compared with the performances of camels in Algeria, as stated by the French officers. According to an official report to the war department of France in 1844, in the expedition to Milianeh, camels carrying burdens of 250 kilogrammes (550 pounds) climbed without accident slopes rising at an angle of 45 degrees, and readily traversed every route pr acticable by mules. t
This structure of the foot gives the animal a peculiarly noiseless tread. The thunder which at a distance announces the approach of a troop of cavalry, does not herald the advance of a caravan; and even his rider hears but the faint rustling of the sand or the small pebbles displaced by the foot, as they roll back to the cavity left by the tracks of the animal. The regularity of his step and their gentle, purling sound, excite a peculiarly drow “y influence in the silence of the
* Denham and Clapperton’s Travels, I, chap. 3, do. p. 169. Pietro della Valle complains that his camel, though the freshest and strongest in the caravan, fell in the soft sand ‘*‘ more than seven times in one day.’
} The sole seems entirely impenetrable to thorns, and the camel treads with impunity on
the strong sharp spines with which the fallen branches of the desert acacias are thickly armed.
{ Carbuccia: Du Dromadaire, pp. 8, 169.

<<<Page: 370>>>

wilderness, which not even the danger of a fall enables the inexperienced traveller always to resist.
In mud the footing of the camel is insecure. The hind legs are little separated down to the gambrel joint, but from this point they diverge at a considerable angle, so that the ancient poem I have before quoted compares the hinder feet to two water buckets borne upon a yoke, and the increased breadth of base thus acquired contributes much to the sure-footedness of the camel on dry ground.
Upon a wet and slippery soil, on the contrary, the liability of the foot to slide is increased by this arrangement ; and in case of such an accident, as the foot usually slides laterally, the hip joint is often dislocated or so badly wrenched that the animal is unable to rise with his burden and proceed upon his journey.* _Itis commonly said that the camel never rises after falling under his load, and that he immediately perishes under such circumstances. I have myself witnessed instances to the contrary, although I have no doubt that where the fall is from exhaustion the death of the animal is nearly certain. Where the mud is merely a thin layer of wet earth over a rocky or other very hard surface, the camel passes over it without much risk; and I have repeatedly seen caravans travel at their ordinary pace and with entire confidence and security over pavements covered with several inches of snow and soft mud.
The camel readily fords rivers with gravelly or pebbly bottoms, and J have seen them wade around headla&fds in the Red sea, in water
three or four feet deep; but the passage of streams with soft bottoms,
or with deep water, by camels is always a matter of great difficulty. It is almost impossible to train them to enter a ferry boat, or to lie quietly in crossing rivers by this mode of conveyance; and though they float readily, yet they are bad swimmers, the noe dneee of the barrel and the height of the head and hump above the line of flotation exposing them constantly to the danger of losing their balance and rolling over upon the side, in which case they are sure to be lost. For this reason it is common to lash the head to the gunwale of a boat, or to support it by some other contrivance in crossing deep waters.t
But the most interesting and impor tant anatomical peculiarity of the
camel is that curious structure by which he is enabled to take in at once and retain, by a special arrangement, a sufficient quantity of water to supply the wants of the animal economy for several days. It was conjectured by Cuvier, and it is believed by some more recent naturalists, that the stomach of the camel is not only able to retain for many days water swallowed by the animal, but that it possesses the further power of secreting a special fluid for moistening the fauces and viscera, and mingling with the food in rumination, in some such way as some fish are able to keep the skin moist for some time after they are taken from the water, by the exudation of a fluid secreted for that purpose. It is even said that the fluid found in the water-sack, after the death of the camel, possesses chemical properties which prove it to be an
* According to General Harlan, (Patent Office Report, 1853,) the hind legs are sometimes hobbled above the gambrel joint to prevent their spreading.
{Denham and Clapperton, II, pp. 80, 212. Father Huc, I, chap. 6. Lyon’s Travels, p124.

<<<Page: 371>>>

animal secretion; but it does not appear that this fact has been established to the satisfaction of the physiological chemist.*
It is not easy to explain the structure of the stomach without drawings, and it must suffice to say that, according to Sir Everard Home, ‘jt consists, like that of other ruminants, of four cavities. The first of these performs the functions of both the first and second in the horned ruminants; the second is simply a receptacle for water; the use of the third is not ascertained ; and the office of the fourth is the same as that of the corresponding stomach in other animals having four gastric cavities.t
Thus by means of the nutriment supplied by the absorption of the hump, and the fluid preserved in, and, perhaps, also secreted by, the water-sack, the camel is able to travel several days without any new supplies of food or water. The period of abstinence depends upon the breed, training, and habits of the particular animal, the season and temperature, and the amount of labor demanded of him.
With respect to food, there is no doubt that the camel often endures two, three,t and even more days of entire privation 5 but long abstinence is seldom necessary, because, although there is one well Aticsed instance of the existence of a tract of desert frequently crossed by caravans, six days’ journey in width, and absolutely without a particle of vegetation,§ yet there are few portions of the Libyan or Arabian deserts where more or less of the shrubs on which the camel feeds do not occur at very much shorter intervals.
According to Denham, the African camel is prepared for long journeys by having balls of dough crammed down his throat, while, on the contrary, Father Huc, a much less reliable authority, declares that the Bactrian is hardened by several days of previous abstinence. Under ordinary circumstances, the camel is not fed at all, even on very long journeys, but is left to snatch his food as he can during the march of the caravan, or gather it more leisurely while it halts. In a journey of seven weeks which I made with these animals in Arabia Petra in the mouths of May and June, but a single camel of the caravan received any food from his driver. This was a fine large animal bred by the Ababdeh Arabs, which was fed every evening with from a pint to a quart of beans.
When herbage and browse are altogether wanting, a small quantity of beans, a fore handfulls of dates or even daretatones, a ball or two of dough of barley-meal, millet, or other grain, weighing from one to three pounds, or a small supply of some dry vegetable are given each camel daily. According to Edrisi, they are Soneniaes fed, with dried fish. Denham says they are fond of bones, and Riley even declares that he sometimes saw them fed with charcoal. The favorite food of the camel consists of the leaves, branches, and seed-pods of the acacias and other prickly trees or shrubs, of thistles, and of the saline plants so common
* eee to Carbuccia, the fluid in the water-sack remains undamaged and dees several days after the death of the camel.—Du Dromadaire, 12.
} The gall bladder is wanting in the camel, and no trace of the biliary secretion has been found upon dissection.—Plinii ‘Hist. Nat. XI, 74; Carbuccia, 103.
{ Carbuccia, 10. § Denham and Clapperton, I, c. 3.

<<<Page: 372>>>

in the desert; and every vegetable zone is found to furnish some plant specially suited to his nutriment, while, in case of necessity, he scarcely refuses any green thing.* His powerful jaws and teeth enable him to grind and masticate branches of the hardest wood as thick as the finger. His palate is lined with a very hard cartilage ; and the inside of the lip, the tongue, and the gums are protected by a skin almost equally impenetrable. The lips are, nevertheless, very flexible, and the upper labrum is divided. In feeding on the acacia or other"prickly plants, he retracts and partially inverts the lips, grasps the twigs with the tongue and jaws, and thus crops and chews the thorniest shrubs with impunity.
The camels domesticated in Tuscany, which, though deg by a residence of centuries in the moist climate and alluvial soil of the lower Arno, are of the Arabian stock, neglect the green and tender cultivated grasses, but devour with avidity the leaves and smaller branches of the oak andthe alder, and the hard dry stems of the thorn, the thistle, and the broom. The working camels at the grand duke’s farm, near Pisa, are sheltered and fed on hay during the winter, but the rest of the herd remain in the opea air, and subsist on twigs and withered shrubs, through the cold season.
The Bactrian camel has the same fondness for saline plants as his African congener; but he feeds also upon the leaves, twigs, and bark of deciduous trees, the coarsest grasses, thistles, reeds, rushes, weeds, straw, and, in short, upon such vegetable diet as is rejected by almost every other domestic quadruped.
The statements of travellers differ very considerably in regard to the quantity of solid food required by the camel. My own observation would lead me to think it extremely small. As I have already stated, he is usually not fed at all; and in travelling his only opportunity of gathering his food is between the evening halt and sunset, when he returns to the camp, with such scattering mouthfuls as he can snatch upon the march. ‘The vegetation of the desert is usually so sparse that the quantity of nutritious food which can be collected after the day’s journey is performed must be very inconsiderable ; and though upon starting in the morning the animal shows signs of hunger, and much annoys his rider by suddenly stopping or starting aside to crop a tempting thorn twig or thistle, yet in an hour or two his appetite is satisfied, and he performs the rest of his task without seeming to crave food. I was assured by the keeper of the herd at Pisa, that when fed entirely on hay, the camel consumed little more than half as much as the horse; while, on the other hand, a correspondent in the Crimea informs me that the Bactrian camel requires at least fifty pounds ofhay per day in winter, and another in Bessarabia estimates the daily winter supply of hay and straw at seventy pounds. Pattenger states that the camels in Beloochistan receive about fifteen pounds of meal daily, besides grass and shrubs, and he adds the singular fact that the Belooches give these animals considerable quantities of opium with their food; but most travellers state that when fed at all, the camel receives five
*Carbuccia, page 10, says that the camel never touches the ‘‘ aloe ;’’ but an official report, at page 182 of the same volume, enumerates the ‘‘cactus’? among the wild vegetables consumed by him.
venerated .

<<<Page: 373>>>

or six pounds of meal at most. The power of the camel to abstain from water is much more frequently and severely tested than his ability to dispense with food. The testimony of travellers, as well as of native observers on this subject varies widely; but their discrepancies can generally be explained by difference of breed, of season, or the greater or less succulence of the solid food consumed by the animal. -
The most extraordinary statements | have seen are those of the official reports of the French officers attached to the dromedary corps in Algeria. One of these reports declares that the camels of the corps employed in the expedition of El Aghouat did not drink from February to May, though the weather was very hot ; and General Carbuccia, the commander of the corps, positively states that the Algerine camel under no circumstances drinks oftener than once in seven days.” Although many travellers have related cases of very long privation, while the animal had daily access to an abundant supply of green succulent food, yet that excellent observer Russell mentions an instance of fifteen days abstinence as altogether unprecedented; and I have been able to find but one other well authenticated case, which is that mentioned by Denham and Clapperton,t of so long an abstinence us eight days, when the animal fed mostly on dry food. Most travellers concur in saying that under such circumstances the extreme hmit of endurance of the Arabian camel, whose powers in that respect are much greater than those of the Bactrian or other northern breeds, does not exceed five or six days. The longest period of complete privation I have personally witnessed was four days in very hot weather, and upon withered fodder; and I have always observed that the camel drank as often as he had an opportunity. In most countries where the animal is used, it is said he can dispense with drinking twice as long as the horse under the same circumstances. ‘Uhis I doubt not is a very uear gencral approximation to the truth.f ‘These facts, however wondertul, are by no means so extraordinary or incredible as they may at first sight appear. ‘The domestic ox, when supplied with abundance of green todder, seldom inclines to drink. Persons familiar with sheep husbandry know that in rich pastures that animal thrives very well for many weeks in the hottest summers, without any water but that which falls in the shape of dew; and if I mistake not, Captain Stansbury’s mules travelled two whole days along the margin of Salt Lake, without food or water.
Tt is not the mere power of abstinence alone that so eminently fits the camel for travelling the steppe and the desert. His preference for the brackish and even saline waters which almost exclusively occur in those regions, and which are often so highly impregnated with mmeral substances as to be rejected by most other quadrupeds, is a property alinost as valuable. Russell even states that he prefers sea-water to
* Carbuccia, 10, 11, 89, 204. } Denham and Clapperton, I. c. 3.
{The quantity of water swallowed by the camel, after long privation, is very great. I have seen one empty at a draught three goat skins, holding not less than seven gallons each ; and Riley speaks of even much greater quantities. The camel smells, or by some other sense detects water at the distance of a mile or more ; and the uncontrolled violence with which he rushes to the well to satisfy his thirst is one of the greatest inconveniences, not to say dangers, of desert travel.

<<<Page: 374>>>

fresh ; but this is not confirmed by other authorities, and I have seen them, when parched with thirst, rush to the sea, wade into it, and turn {rom it with evident disappointment on finding the water salt.
The rate of travel of the burden camel is exceedingly uniform, and varies little in the different species and breeds of the animal. Rennelle, Robinson, and other inquirers, have very carefully investigated this subject, with a view to the use of the camel’s pace in geography as a measure of distance. His speed is naturally modified by the nature of the ground, but as all irregularities of this sort are usually compensated in long journeys, it may be safely averaged at two miles and one third per hour. Over a smooth and level surface, I have found his ordinary length of step to be six feet, and the number of steps of each foot thirtyseven to the minute. This gives a speed of two miles fifty-two hundredths to the hour, under the most favorable circumstatices ; but upon rougher ground it was proportionately retarded, and I believe Robinson’s estimate to be a very exact average.
The length of the caravan day’s journey, when there is no special motive for haste, is regulated by the distance between wells and pasture grounds ; but it is seldom less than ten, and more frequently twelve or fourteen hours, and in most countries the entire day’s journey is accomplished without a halt. Averaging the hours of travelat twelve, the distance performed would be twenty-eight miles, and this rate may be kept up any number of days in succession.
This is the estimate for animals with full burdens, and left to their natural gait; but in case of emergency, and especially under lighter loads and fleeter camels, both the rate of travel and the length of the day’s journey may be very much increased.
Bergmann states the ordinary day’s journey of the loaded Bactrian camel at forty miles, and without burden at from fifty to sixty-five miles; and my correspondents in Bessarabia and the Crimea agree in stating that upon a good dry road a pair of Bactrians will draw a load of 3,000 to 4,000 pounds a distance of fifty miles without eating, drinking, or halting. These authorities, which I believe are entirely reliable, show that for transportation the Bactrian camel is superior to the Arabian; and it appears that when properly trained he is also capable of attaining a considerable speed under the saddle, though in this respect he cannot compete with the Arabian dromedary. Some of the Arab accounts of the fleetness cf the maherry are no doubt fables, and one may well question whether Johason’s story of the dromedary that bore his master on an errand of love from Morocco to Mogador and back, a distance of 200 miles, in a single day, is not exaggerated. But the numerous well authenticated evidences of this animal’s great speed and power of endurance, leave no doubt that in the union of these two qualities he far surpasses the horse, as well as all other domestic quadrupeds.
Mehemet Ali, when hastening to his capital to accomplish the destruction of the Mamelukes, rode without changing his camel, from Suez to Cairo, a distance of eighty-four miles, in twelve hours. A French officer in the service of the Pasha performed the same feat in thirteen hours, and two gentlemen of my acquaintance have accom-
plished it in less than seventeen. Laborde travelled the distance in the

<<<Page: 375>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. iil
same time, and afterwards rode the same dromedary from a point opposite Cairo to Alexandria, a distance of about one hundred and fifty miles, in thirty-four hours. But the most extraordinary well authenticated performance of the dromedary is that recorded by the accurate Burckhardt, under whose personal observation it fell. In this instance the animal carried its rider one hundred and fifteen miles in eleven hours, including twenty minutes spent in crossing and recrossing the Nile. Upon longer journeys the daily rate of the best dromedaries, though not equal to these instances, is still extraordinary. A French officer of high rank and character in the Egyptian service, assured me that he had ridden a favorite dromedary ninety miles in a single day, and five hundred miles in ten. Mails have been carried from Bagdad to Damascus, upon the same animals, four hundred and eighty-two miles, in seven days; and on one occasion, by means of regular relays, Mehemet Ali sent an express to Ibrahim Pasha, from Cairo to Antioch, five hundred and sixty miles, in five days and a half. But the most remarkable long journey on record is that of Col. Chesney, of the British army, who rode with three companions, and without change of camel, from Basrah to Damascus, a distance of nine hundred and sixty miles, in nineteen days and three or four hours, thus averaging fitty miles per day, the animals having no food but such as they gathered for themselves during the halts of the party.
The gaits of the dromedary are all properly paces or ambles; though in racing I have seen them break into an irregular gallop, as they also do for a short distance when hotly pursued by cavalry, and they then outstrip the horse.* The motion of the burden camel and the slow walk of the dromedary are necessarily violent, from the great length of step, and at first very wearisome to the rider; but a few days’ practice accustoms him to this rough exercise, and he performs his day’s journey with as little exhaustion as upon horseback. ‘The quicker movements of the dromedary, at his average pace of five or five and a half miles an hour are much easier and less fatiguing than his walk, and a day’s journey of fifty or sixty miles at this pace is an easy achievement. At much more rapid rates, however, the motion becomes again intolerably violent, and an inexperienced rider finds it almost impossible to cling to the saddle, or even to catchhis breath, though at the ordinary speed the seat is more secure than on horseback.
The burden of the ordinary camel varies with the age of the animal, his breed, and training, and it ranges from three hundred and fifty or four hundred pounds for the lighter and more delicate of the Arabian camels, to twelve, and for moderate distances even fifteen hundred pounds for those bred by the Turcomans in Asia Minor. From six to eight hundred pounds would be a safe average, according to the weight of the animal and the smoothness or ruggedness of the route; and with the smallest of these loads the ordinary camel would easily surmount any mountain passes practicable to other beasts of burden. The weight of the pack-saddle, which is considerable, is excluded in these estimates. In some parts of the East the Arabian camel is employed as a beast of draught, and is even harnessed to the plough. I have seen
* Carbuccia, 16, 77. Bergmann apud Ritter, XIII, 691.

<<<Page: 376>>>

Ha NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
them employed for transporting heavy stone on carts in Egypt, and they have been not unfrequently used for drawing heavy ordnance. In general, however, the Arabian camel is employed altogether as a beast of burden. In Bessarabia the Bactrian camel is used for the plough and for draught, while in the Crimea he is used for draught alone, and is seldom or never ridden in either of those provinces. Throughout Chinese and independent Tartary, however, as well as in Siberia, the Bactrian camel, though sometimes harnessed to wheel carriages, is much more generally employed for the saddle or burden; and the preJudice which has extensively prevailed that the configuration and sensitiveness of the humps forbids the use of the pack-saddle for this species, appears to be without foundation.
In whatever mode the camel is employed, his harness is very simple. In some regions he is guided by a plain halter, in others the septum or one of the ale of the nose is pierced, an iron ring iaserted, and to this is attached a cord to serve as a bridle; and in the military service it has been found convenient to use the halter and this rude bridle in conjunction.* In the burden caravans the camels are not unfrequently tied head to tail, in files of about seven animals, the driver riding ahead upon a donkey or a camel, and the last camel in the file carrying a bell, so that the driver may be advertised by the ear if the chain by any accident is broken.
The pack-saddle, whether for riding or for burden, is made by stuffing a bag seven or eight feet long with straw or grass, doubling it and sewing the ends together. This forms an oblong ring, which is furnished with a rope crupper and placed upon the back so as to enclose the hump. Upon this cushion rests a frame consisting of two pairs of flat sticks meeting at top like a chevron or pair of rafters, and connected at bottom by a couple of sticks two or three feet long, secured to the others by thongs. ‘The pad soon fits itself to the shape of the back and sides, and the frame nestles into the pad, while the hump rising in the centre of the whole apparatus keeps everything in place, so that no girdie, or at most a loose rope, is needed to confine the saddle. ‘The load stowed in sacks, or better still in rope nettings, is balanced across the saddle, and the water-skins are suspended Peeaih.
The gear of the dromedary 1 is somewhat lighter, but of the same fashion. The wooden frame is more neatly made, the uprights being curved outwards and uniting at top in two conical pummels, one before and one behind, six or eight inches high, and perhaps two in diameter at the base, covered with figured brass plate or otherwise decorated, and terminating in a knob. ‘Over the saddle is thrown a lar ge pair of saddle-bags of striped goat’s-hair cloth, ornamented with fringes and cowrie shells, and upon this are laid blankets, cushions and carpets, and perhaps a gay housing over all. The rider is perched at the summit of this pyramid, directly over or perhaps a little in advance of the hump; and his stirrups, if he uses them, his water-bottle, his gun, a smaller pair of saddle-bags or a carpet-bag, or any other convenience he may choose, are hung to the pommels. In riding the maherry, how-
* Carbuccia, 44, 45, 50, 51, 133. According to Erman and Father Huc, the Northern Tartars pierce the septum of the nose and insert a piece of wood or bone, to which they attach the reins of the bridle.

<<<Page: 377>>>

ever, the wilder tribes sit on a small saddle placed upon the shoulders, in front of the hump, and sustain themselves in their seat by crossing the ankles over the neck.*
As the camel lies down to receive and discharge his burden, he is very quickly and conveniently loaded and unloaded ; the latter operation generally consisting simply in loosing a knot of the cord by which the packages are slung | across the saddle, and the camel then immediately rises and goes in search of pasture. On returning to the camp at veening he lies down between the packag ges; andif ehese consist: of merchandize or other articles not requiring to be opened at night, the driver has only to knot the cord again, and the animal is ready for the march. The pack-saddle is very rarely removed; and as the camel very seldom stretches himself on his side or attempts to roll, the saddle is never lost.
For draught he is simply yoked to the pole of the wagon, just as the ox is with us, and requires no other gearing. ‘This extreme simplicity and economy of harness has, with trifling modifications, been carried into the military service by the French in Algeria, and wherever else the camel has been employed in war, and is “found to answer all purposes as completely as the costly furniture with which we supply our cavalry. Every soldier may be his own saddler, and he requires no
material but bagging, straw or grass, a little cordage, and a few small sticks, which may be found wherever there is any arborescent vegetation, to extemporize at an hour’s warning the complete equipage ae his beast.
The training of the came] commences when he is quite young, and, as his manége is very simple, it is soon completed. At the close of his third or early in his fourth year he is in his full strength, and the period of his service begins earlier and lasts longer than that of the horse. In Algeria he never attains a greater age than thirty years, and he is fit for labor for about fifteen or twenty years. In Syria and Asia Minor his ordinary life and service is ten years longer; while in the Crimea, as I am assured by a Russian officer of great experience in the use of the animal, the Bactrian sometimes lives to a hundred, and, upon an average, to sixty or seventy ; though another correspondent in Bessarabia states the ordinary term of his life at thirty-five years. .
The average height of the Arabian camels I have measured was nineteen hands, or six feet four inches, to the top of the hump, the head being an inch or two higher. The tallest I have used measured seven feet and seven feet three inches respectively. The very powerful Turcoman camel is somewhat lower than the Arabian, and the height of the Bactrian is stated at from six to eight feet, his weight at one third more than that of the ox, which in the Crimea is estimated at nine hundred pounds, making the weight of the camel twelve hundred ; and I was informed at Pisa that the camels of the grand duke’s stables sometimes weighed fourteen hundred pounds.
The swift dromedary varies much in size. Layard mentions a deloul (the name of this variety in the Syrian desert) from the Nedjd, where very fine animals are raised, which was little taller than an Arab horse ;+ and all the true Arabian dramedaries I have met were very
* Lyon’s Travels, 114. { Layard: New Researches, 332. Mis. Doc. 24——8

<<<Page: 378>>>

small. The hedjin, a dromedary of the upper Nile, on the contrary, is much taller, frequently, I am sure, not much below eight feet; and the maherry of the great desert is taller still. Lyon speaks of a Tibboo maherry of seven feet eight inches as small; and on one occasion a dromedary of this variety, measuring not less than nine feet and a half, was brought to the camp of Captain Denham.*
The most common colors of the camel are mouse, drab, and fawn; but black and white animals occur, and a very delicate and pleasing rose tint is not uncommon among the high-bred dromedaries of the greater Arabian peninsula.
The milk of the camel is a very favorite drink in all countries where the animal is used, and it is highly salubrious and nutritious. Some tribes possessing large herds live wholly upon it during a great part of the year, and it is very frequently given to favorite hor ses, which are extremely fond of it-+ My own curiosity never led me to taste it, but the ladies of my party drank it constantly for many weeks, and found it both agreeable and retreshing; though, when the pasturage was particularly dry and spicy, they t thought it rather too highly flavored with the aromatic savors with which, as poets sing, even the air is charged in Araby the blest. The quantity given in the desert without green food is small, certainly not exceeding a quart; but the Bactrian camel, which enjoys in general a more succulent diet, yields twice as much.
ane utility of the camel does not cease with ee life. His flesh, especially the hump and heart, is a favorite food among all cameldrivers, and when the animal is in good case it is described as little inferior to beef; but in the desert the camel is seldom killed until it is almost ready fo die of exhaustion, and European travellers have found it in that condition tough and ill-tasted. The skin varies in thickness
=) . . . . . and strength with the breed, and is found of all qualities from that of
the hor se to the toughness and solidity of sole leather. Athough Ihave seen camels regul: wly sheared, yet, in general, the hair is wrenched off by hand at the time of shedding the coat. In southern latitudes the quantity is small, and the fibre “short and coarse; but the Bactrian yields a fleece weighing ten pounds, of longer and finer fibre; and there are varieties 1n the basin of the Caspian with long silky hair scarcely inferior in quality and value to the wool of the Cashmere and Tnibet goat. These breeds would be well worth introducing for the fleece alone.t The tallow is hard and firm, and for candles scarcely inferior to spermaceti or wax,§ and the bones would, no doubt, be found of value in the arts.
The Arab holds the camel and the date-palm to have been formed out of the same clay as our common father Adam, and to have proceeded more immediately from the hand of the Creator than any other
quadruped or tree ; and he believes he shall meet them again in Para-
* Lyon : Travels in Africa, 313. } Denham and Clapperton, I, 169.
{Father Huc. (American edition,) I. chap. 9, Ritter XIII, 676, 654. Erman, Reisen, I. 198, speaks of the camel’s hair shawls brought to the fair of Nishnei Novgorod from Bokhara as of ihe most extraordinary fineness and beauty. They are made of the hair or rather wool combed from the belly of the animal, and spun into yarn as fine as human hair, and are sold at higher prices than the most delicate Cashmeres.
§ Carbuccia, 82—Ritter XIII, 692.

<<<Page: 379>>>

dise. Mohammed proclaimed his dispensation from the back of a camel, and was translated to Paradise by the same conveyance.
The camel alone is permitted to carry the sacred veil to Mecca, and he serves as the pulpit from which the Cadi preaches at Mount Ararat the annual sermon to the pilgrims to that holy spot. Notwithstanding these high claims, the Arab seldom pets his dromedary as he does his horse.
Beyond an occasional handful of food, and a dressing of the snows of the extreme north, he is never. housed or otherwise sheltered in any of the wide range of climates through which he roves. To the extremest heat of an African sun the Ar abian camel is utterly indifferent 5 and the Bactrian braves, without shrinking, the chilling frosts and the icy blasts of northern Siberia. I have often watched the camel’s habits in this respect in the desert, and though we sometimes encamped near palms and other trees, or where he would readily have found a shelter beneath the cool shadow of a rock, I could never discover that, even under the most glaring light and scorching heat, he at all preferred the shade to the sun.
The camel, though less vicious than the horse, is not altogether so
atient an animal as he is generally represented. His anger is indeed o oO
not easily excited, but when once thoroughly irritated, he long remembers the injury which has provoked him, and the “camel’s temper” 1S a proverbial expression used by the Arabs to denote a vindictive and unforgiving disposition.* Although he sometimes strikes with the fore foot, yet the hoof being unarmed, his blows are feeble, and his only dangerous weapon is his teeth. These are used with powerful effect in the barbarous fights which are sometimes got up as spectacles, but it is only under certain special circumstances, which are easily avoided, that he attacks his driver.
His only ordinary manifestation of discontent is the harsh and ill-
natured growl he sets up whenever he is approached to be loaded or mounted, and especially when any < attempt is made to overcharge him. In the stillness of the desert the growl of a caravan, preparing for the morning’s march, is heard for miles around; though the true maherry seldom, growls, and it is said there are breeds which have entirely lost this disagreeable peculiarity ; yet, in general, silent as is the march of a burden caravan, its halts are very unmistakeably announced to all wanderers within a long distance of its track. So harsh indeed is the growl of the camel, that Father Huc gravely declares that his cameldriver, on one occasion, put a pack of wolves to flight by tweaking his camel’s nose till he roared again. t
The Arabs habitually travel much by night, and this not, as has been supposed, for the sake of the guidance of the stars, which they seldom need, but partly to avoid the greater heat of the day, and more especially to allow the camel, which never feeds by night, the day-
*Host, an accurate observer, says, (Efterretninger om Marokos, 269,) that the Sultan of Morocco had camels trained to act as executioners, and all writers concur in representing the male as dangerous during the rutting season. According to Carbuccia, pp. 7, 8, 83, this paroxyism is calmed by tarring the head of the camel, or permanently prev ented bya simple process attended with little inconvenience, and no danger to the animal.
{ Father Hue, I, chap. 3.

<<<Page: 380>>>

light for gathering his food.* It is common to start from midnight to two o’clock, and to march, without halting, ten, fifteen, or sometimes twenty hours, after which the camp is formed ; and if it is not yet dark, the camels are turned out to graze till sunset, when they return to the camp, are hobbled, by tying up one of the folded fore legs, and ruminate and sleep to the hour of departure. Although so long a day’s journey without pause is fatiguing to the rider, yet, except with light dromedaries, experience is in favor of the practice. To halt without unloading the camels would afford them no relief, but fatigue them the more by practically lengthening their day’s work; and if they are unloaded and allowed to wander in search of food, the time lost in collecting them and rearranging their burdens would bring the caravan too late to the camping ground. Where, however, the party, as is the case with military expeditions of a few days’ length, is unaccompanied by burden camels, and the dromedaries are loaded with only the equipage, water, and provisions of their riders, the hours of travel and repose can, without inconvenience, be arranged and varied to suit the exigencies of the occasion.
The question of the practicability and advantages of introducing the camel into the United States for military and other purposes, is one of much interest and importance ; and I hope I shall be pardoned if I prolong a discourse, which I fear has proved but a dry one, for the sake of suggesting some considerations upon a topic to which I have devoted some attention, both at home and abroad.
Among those who are practically familiar with the habits and properties of the camel, and who have studied the physical conditions of our territory west of the Mississippi, there is, I believe, little or no difference of opinion on the subject; and I am persuaded that the ultimate success of judicious and persevering effort is certain, and will be attended with most important advantages. At the same time, it must not be concealed that, as much depends on a point that nothing but experience can determine,—the selection, namely, of the particular breeds best adapted to our climate, soil, and other local conditions,— the result of a first experiment, unless tried on a liberal scale, and with animals of more than a single variety, is extremely uncertain. ‘The question must be considered under two aspects: the one 1egarding the camel as simply a beast of burden; the other, his value as an animal of war. But even if it is conceded, which I by no means admit, that the organization of a proper mounted dromedary corps is impracticable or inexpedient, it does not, by any means, follow that the camel may not be of great value in the commissariat, and in all that belongs to the mere movement of bodies of men, as well as in the independent transportation of military stores and all the munitions of war.
The first question to be discussed is the adaptation of any variety of either species to the climate and soil of any portion of our territory. So far as mere extremes of temperature are concerned, it 1s quite certain that we have nowhere, west of the Mississippi, fiercer or more long-continued heats, more parched deserts, or wastes more destitute of vegetation, than those of the regions where the Arabian camel is
* Fraser, Khorasan, 379.

<<<Page: 381>>>

found in his highest perfection; and the Bactrian thrives in climates as severe as even the coldest portion of our northeastern territory.
There is, however, it must be admitted, one point of difference between our general climate and that of the eastern continent which has an unfavorable bearing on the question. I refer to the greater moisture of our atmosphere and the greater frequency of rains during the summer season. In general, the countries where the camel thrives have a proper dry season, little or no rain falling during the summer months. But to this rule there are exceptions. The valley of the lower Danube has summer rains, and a very wet autumn, winter, and spring; and many northern Asiatic districts are subject to similar climatic conditions. But the objection, whatever may be its force, seems to apply merely to the proportion of the year during which the animal can labor, and not to its influence upon his constitution; because, it appears that in the cold and damp Russian provinces the camel is less subject to disease, and attains a greater longevity, than in any other part of the world; and it is remarkable that in the Crimea, at least as I am informed, he is little used in the hottest and driest season, because the heat is found too great for that variety, and his services are most valuable in winter.
On alluvial and other soft soils caravans using the camel will, no doubt, be obliged to halt during rains and until the ground is dry; but upon all other surfaces, one or other of the species may be used without regard to weather or season; and as none of the passes of the Rocky mountains are more rugged or steeper than those of Arabia or Tartary, there is every probability that he may be advantageously employed over all the known routes between the Mississippi and the Pacific coast.
In reference to the special properties of the different varieties it may be observed that, although, as we have already seen, the Arabian camel traverses the roughest routes and climbs exceedingly steep ascents, yet the Bactrian and the cross between the two species are even better fitted for scaling difficult mountain passes. This difference is, probably, partly due to habit and training; but the greater elongation of the toe of these breeds, which sometimes projects beyond the cushioned sole and forms a sort of claw, undoubtedly somewhat facilitates climbing by giving a grasp to the foot-hold, for which reason the Bactrian anciently was, and sometimes still is, called the mountain camel.
My Russian correspondents, to whom I have so often referred, say that the Bactrian is chiefly used for winter transportation, and that his feet require no protection, but, to use their own words, are so formed that he travels well not only on frozen ground, but upon ice and snow. Timkowski saw caravans of this breed cross a glacier; and Bergmann says that, in winter, the Calmucks prefer them to horses for the saddle, because their long legs enable them to wade through deeper snows, and adds that they bear severe cold better than the horse, the ox, or the sheep.
Father Huc and Pallas give similar accounts of the power of the Bactrian camel; and Pallas adds that he is used not only in deep snows and half-frozen morasses, but that he fords rapid torrents, and, with a little training, even swims well.

<<<Page: 382>>>

In the month of February, Erman saw, at Kiachta, on the RussoChinese frontier, herds of camels in the open air, feeding on withered and frozen wild vegetables, at a temperature of 25 degrees below zero of Fahrenheit, and remarks that they fear neither the severe winter of Siberia nor the parching summer heats of the sand-wastes of the desert of Gobi. The alternation of thaw and frost alone, says he, is dangerous to them, in consequence of the icy crust formed under such cireumstances, which wounds their feet and limbs.
So numerous is the camel in these frozen realms, that almost the whole commerce between Russia and China, by way of Kiachta, is carried on by means of them; and they transport merchandise over the whole of the vast distance between Orenburg on the Ural, and Petropawlowsk on the peninsula of Kamtschatka. In the month of October, Timkowski met on the desert of Gobi, in latitude 46°, and at the height of 2,500 feet above the sea, a herd of 20,000 camels; the Russian expedition against Khiva and Bokhara, in 1840, employed more than an equal number; and Berghaus estimates the number of camels in European Russia at not less than 100,000.
So far, then, as climate and soil are concerned, it may be regarded as quite certain that the Bactrian camel can sustain any exposure to which he would be subjected in our trans-Mississippian territory ; and there is no reason to doubt that the mezquit, acacia, and other shrubs, and the saline plants known to exist in many of those regions, would furnish him an appropriate and acceptable nutriment.
I cannot speak with equal confidence of the ability of the Arabian camel, and especially of the maherry of the desert, to bear corresponding trials. All high-bred animals are delicate, and impatient of exposure to great extremes and sudden changes; and although Denham and Clapperton speak of hard frosts in latitude 13° north, and Lyon records a temperature four degrees below the freezing point, in districts constantly traversed by the maherry, yet the finest and fleetest animals will not bear the winter climate of Algiers.* But, although we may not be able to breed dromedaries of a speed equal to the most extraordinary performances I have described, there is no reason to doubt that the more common animal, which will travel eight or ten hours a day at five miles an hour, for many days in succession, and with greater speed for a shorter period, can be bred and used with advantage throughout our southwestern territories, and on all the more southern passes of the mountains which divide the valley of the Mississippi from the Pacific slope, as well as throughout the State of California.
The ancient Asiatics, and, at a later period, the Romans, made a very extensive use of the dromedary in war, not only for the transportation of men and munitions, but as technical cavalry in actual combat; and they are still employed in Persia, Bokhara, and Tartary, for military purposes, and especially for the conveyance of light pieces of artillery, which are mounted between the humps, and used in that position, the camel kneeling while the gun is loaded, aimed, and fired. In modern European armies they have hardly been employed, except by Napoleon, in transporting the baggage of his army in the Syrian cam-
* Carbuccia, 4.

<<<Page: 383>>>

paign, in his celebrated dromedary regiment ; and, more recently, by the army of occupation in Algeria. Upon the march from Egypt to ‘Syria, the baggage, the camp equipage, and the sick,* of an army of 15,000 men, were transported solely by camels.
It is remarkable that the military archives of France furnish little or no information, beyond the mere number of the corps, respecting the dromedary regiment of the army of Egypt, the historical documents belonging to the subject having been chiefly lost or suppressed; and all we know concerning it is derived from an imperfect and erroneous account in the great work on Egypt, and a late paper by Gourard, one of the savans who accompanied the expedition. Without entering into minute detail, it must suffice to say that this regiment, which numbered something less than 500 men, was organized in the main like a regiment of cavalry, and performed the same general service, with the most brilliant success. Although the men were taken from the infantry, a very short time was required to teach them the new discipline and drill, and the animals were habituated to the necessary evolutions in an incredibly short space of time. The services rendered by the corps were of a most important character, and its performances, according to Prétat, were quite unprecedented in military annals. This officer states that the ordinary march of the regiment was thirty French leagues, or about seventy-five miles, without a halt ; and that a detachment belonging to it marched six hundred miles in eight days. These latter extraordinary statements rest on the testimony of a single individual, and though the corps was composed wholly of picked animals and picked men, and animated by the energy of a Bonaparte, it is very difficult to yield them full credence.
The experiments in Algeria, though satisfactory to the officers charged with them, whose reports seem entirely conclusive upon the value and economy of the camel as an animal of war, have been attended with less brilliant results. The prejudices of the officers and men against the use of this awkward and ungraceful animal in the regular service have proved very difficult to overcome. The peculiar organization of the French commissariat has interposed serious pecuniary obstacles, and the government has always seemed disinclined to consider this question in a spirit of liberality and candor. It is, however, proved that the use of the dromedary contributes in a most important degree to the economy, the celerity, and the efficiency of military movements in desert regions; and I cannot doubt that it would prove a most powerful auxiliary in all measures tending to keep in check the hostile Indians on the frontier, as well as in maintaining the military and postal communication between our Pacific territory and the east.
There are few more imposing spectacles than a body of armed men advancing under the quick pace of the trained dromedary ; and this sight, with the ability of the animal to climb ascents impracticable to
* For the transportation of the wounded the camel is not so suitable, on account of the roughness of his motion ; but, for even these, the tachiirawan, or litter borne by two camels, would probably answer. Invalids often travel, as I have witnessed, in a cajava, or, as it is sometimes called, a mahafa. This consists of a pair of boxes or frames, properly with a canvass sacking, five feet long, two wide, and two deep, slung across the pack-saddle, and protected by an awning. A strong camel will carry two persons in this way.

<<<Page: 384>>>

horses, and thus to transport mountain howitzers, light artillery, stores, and other military matériel into the heart of hes mountains, would strike with a salutary terror the Comanches, Lipans, and other savage tribes upon out borders.
The habits of these Indians much resemble those of the nomade Arabs, and the introduction of the camel among them would modify their modes of life as much as the use of the Heese has done. For a time, indeed, the possession of this animal would only increase their powers of mischief; but it might in the long run prove the means of raising them to that state of semi-civilized life of which alone their native wastes seem susceptible. The products of the camel, with wool, skin, and flesh, would prove of inestimable value to these tribes, which otherwise are likely soon to perish with the buffalo and other large game animals; and the profit of transportation across our inland desert might have the same effect in reclaiming these barbarians which it has had upon the Arabs of the Siniatic peninsula.
Among the advantages of the camel for military purposes, may be mentioned the economy of his original cost, as compared with the horse or mule, when once introduced and fairly domesticated ;* the simplicity and cheapness of his saddle and other furniture, which every soldier can manutacture for himself; the exemption from the trouble and expense of providing for his sustenance, driving, sheltering, or shoeing him; his great docility, his general freedom from disease, las longevity, the magmitude of his ‘burden, and the great celerity of his movements, his extraordinary fearlessness,i the safety of his rider, whether from talls§ or the viciousness of the animal, the economical value of his flesh, and the applicability to many military purposes of his hair and his skin, the resources which in extreme cases the milk might furnish, and finally his great eS of abstinence from both food and drink.||
* The price of the camel is exceedingly low in all countries where he is bred. Except for the highest breed, maherries, it nowhere, except in the Crimea, exceeds fifty dollars, and is in general considerably below this sum. 'The reason of this is ‘that it costs nothing to breed the animal. The dam continues to labor during the whole period of gestation, (w vhich runs according to climate, from eleven, or in some cases, ten to twelve months, ) and even the dropping of a foal scarcely delays her march. (Denham and Clapperton, I. c. 3, Ritter XU, 610.) The young requires no care and little training, and is already serviceable in his third year.
{ According to the concurrent testimony of all observers, no domestic animal is so free from disease as the camel. General Harlan’s statement, that he is more liable to maladies than the horse, is unsupported by any other writer, and it must rest on some local peculiarity of climate or of breed. My correspondents in southern Russia describe the Bactrian as almost completely exempt from all ailments. In Algeria the camel suffers much from the sting, or more properly the oviposition of an insect; and it might be important, in importing the animal from that country, to select a season when he is free from the egg and the larve, in order to avoid introducing the insect with the camel.
t Carbuccia, 25, 168.
§ The security of the seat, though at once felt by all who have mounted the camel, seems hardly reconcilable with the violence of his motion, and is not easily explained ; but nothing is more rare than a fall from his back. Every oriental traveller can testify that the Arabs often sleep upon their camels when on the march, and Colonel Chesney (Expedition to the Euphrates, [1,671) and Layard give curious accounts of the preparation and even cooking of food on the backs of the camels by the Arab women, during forced marches. They even contrive to milk the milch animals without halting.
|| The use of the camel has enabled the corps which have employed it in Algeria to dispense altogether with a baggage train, as the animal can transport a very considerable bur den, i in addition to the soldier “and his accoutrements, at a much more rapid rate than the ordinary march of a column of infantry or artillery.

<<<Page: 385>>>

I may add another advantage, which will be appreciated by all who know the difficulty of conducting a caravan of mules or horses across the plains. I mean the security from stampedes and other nocturnal alarms and losses. ‘The dromedary is a much less timid animal than the horse or mule, and he is not sufficiently gregarious in his habits to be readily influenced by a panic terror. The mode by which he is confined at night furnishes a complete security against escapes from fright or other causes. As he lies down, he folds the forelegs under the body. The Arab passes a loop around one or both of the folded limbs, above the knee, and secures the end of the cord around the neck. When both legs are thus shackled, the camel can rise only to the knee: if one only is hobbled, he rises with difficulty, and moves very slowly ; and if an Indian were to cut the loop, and thus free the animal, and even succeed in mounting him, he would not be able, without a previous practice, which he has not the means of acquiring, to put him up to such a speed as to elude pursuit.* There is another point which I have never heard insisted on, but which has often struck me with some force in riding the camel. I mean the greater range of vision which, in a level country, the greater elevation of the seat gives the rider.
The eye of a horseman is upon an average scarcely eight feet above the ground. Upon the dromedary it is two feet higher, and commands a wider range accordingly.
To all these advantages Iam aware of no drawbacks but the exyense of introducing the aninral and experimenting with him, and the difficulty of accustoming horses to the sight of him. ‘The first objection is too trifling to be debated in a case of so much importance ; and though the Jatter has been found formidable in Tuscany, and according to Father Huc, even in Tartary, where the camel has been very long in use, yet it is of no great force as applied to the sparsely populated regions of the Far West, and as the multiplication of the animal would be gradual and slow, it is not likely that any great or general evil would flow from this source.
The facts I have recited seem to me abundantly to warrant the conclnsion that at the least the experiment is worth trying, and itis highly desirable that it should be tested on a scale large enough and varied enough to embrace all the chances of jsuccess.t
For transportation, the choice would lie between the Turcoman camel of northeastern Asia Minor and the Bactrian. 'The former might easily be procured at Aleppo, and shipped at Alexandretta, or perhaps better at Trebizond, on the Black sea. The Bactrian, which seems
* The only serious inconvenience attending the use of the camel in marching through a country inhabited by hostile Indians, is the necessity of allowing him to wander in search of food; but as he habitually returns to camp before sunset, of his own accord, and never feeds, and very seldom stirs during the night, he would require to be watched only for a couple of hours during the whole twenty-four.
+ Very full information on the military qualities and the hygiene of the Arabian camel, upon the dromedary regiment of the army of Egypt, and the use of this animal in war by the ancients, may be found in the work of Carbuccia I have so often cited, and the papers of Gourard appended to it. The title is: Du Dromadaire comme béte de somme, et comme animal de guerre; par le Général G. L. Carbuccia. Paris, 1853. The appropriation made by Congress for introducing the camel ($30,000) will prove hardly sufficient, it is to be feared, for trying the experiment on a sufficiently liberal scale; and it is therefore doubly important that advantage should be taken of the knowledge acquired by the French in their African possessions,

<<<Page: 386>>>

re NINTHANNUAL REPORT OF
on the whole the more promising animal, might most readily be obtained at Odessa, or in the Crimea; but, as the camels of those provinces are trained only for draught, it would be more advisable to pro-
cure them from the Calmucs, in the neighborhood of the Caspian,
where they are used for burden and _ for ihe saddle, and, according to
Bergmann, possess great speed, and they could be shipped at some of
the ports of the sea of Azow, or they might perhaps, with even greater
convenience, be bought at Petropawlowsk, on the Pacific, at ine sea-
son of the visit of ‘hie caravans, and landed in California.
The dromedaries should be brought from Algeria rather than from Egypt, because they are there accustomed to much severer winters, a moister climate, and a rougher country ; and the experience of the French military service in the use of them might be of great value in aiding in the selection of the breeds or individual animals, as well as in furnishing patterns of the best harness and gearing. The number of '
*. . ” c=) al each ought to be at least sufficient for the organization of a small regu-
lar corps, to be trained in the use of them, and the officers should be provided with all the information which can be gathered from Asiatic and European experience on the subject.
“Tf” says General Marey Monge, ‘cavalry had been unknown in France, and we, seeing the great advantages derived from it by the Arabs, had now for the first time attempted to introduce it into our military service, we should have had a thousand difficulties to overcome. Objections would have been made on the score of kicks and bites, errors would have been committed in the choice of saddles and bridles, the horses would have met with accidents or contracted ailments from our want of experience and ignorance of farriery ; in the first engagements, our mounted men would have been thrown or run away with, they would have been clumsy in managing their arms on horseback, and probably been roughly handled by the superior skill of the Arab horsemen. A party would have been formed against the innovators, who would themselves have become disgusted, and the attempt to introduce mounted corps would perhaps have been abandoned ; but if, in spite of accidents, mistakes, and losses, we had persevered, we should have ended by forming what we have now, an efficient and excellent cavalry.”
This argument is as valid with us as it was in Algeria; and if the experiment shall be tried in the United States without success, it will probably fail for reasons as specious but as inconclusive as those which General Monge supposes against the introduction of cavalry into the French military service.
Norr.—A late writer in the Révue Orientale, 1280, says: ‘I knew in Kgypt a camel driver who had bought a dromed: ary belonging to a sherif of Mecca, deceased, at Cairo. ‘This animal often made the trip between the latter city and Suez, going and returning in twenty-four hours, thus travelling a distance of sixty leagues in a single day.”

<<<Page: 387>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Ts LECTURES.
No. I.—ON THE NATURE AND CURE OF THE BITE OF SERPENTS AND THE WOUNDS OF POISONED ARROWS.
Among the many points in which the science of the present day surpasses the knowledge of past centuries, there is none more conspicuous than that which relates to the nature, the effects, and the means of detecting poisonous substances.
To be convinced of this we have only to cast a glance at the state of society in the latter part of the sixteenth century, the time of Charles 1X and Henry ILI, of France.
At that period Italian manners and customs had been introduced into France by Catharine de Medici, and with them the knowledge of those poisons whose use, in Italy, had rendered the names of certain families pre-eminent in the annals of infamy.
The most-distinguished surgeon of the sixteenth century, Ambroise Paré, has left us, in his works, a very curious account of the means resorted to by the Italian perfumers to convey poisons in a manner which should not be suspected.
Paré was the surgeon of Charles IX, and, being a Protestant, was saved from the massacre of St. Bartholomew, concealed in the cabinet of the king in the palace of the Louvre, at the time when the signal for the slaughter was sounded.
The object of the monarch in saving his life was to have the benefit of his superior skill as a surgeon, and especially in the art of detecting poisons and counteracting their effects.
Paré states that poisons are, ‘by the artifices and sublimations of the wicked traitors, poisoners, and perfumers,”’ deprived of their bitter taste, and even rendered agreeable to the palate, while they are so concentrated as to prove fatal in a short time, and so subtle as to defy the efforts of the most skillful to detect them.
In relating the case of Pope Clement, who was poisoned by the vapors of a torch, he says that flowers and odors of any kind were often used to convey the fatal influence; and that every prelate, beneficed clergyman, or other person whose wealth or rank promised advantage to any who might compass his death, lived in constant dread of poison.
A whole chapter of his work on medicine and surgery is devoted to the means of guarding against being poisoned. He advises the avoiding of all sauces, and especially those which are sweet, salted, or in any way pungent; and, in like manner, being thirsty, not to drink in large draughts, or to eat greedily, but to consider well the taste of what is eaten or drunk. ‘Moreover, we should eat,” says he, ‘those things which break the force of venoms before each repast, and particularly a fat soup made of good meat,” and only take wine or other drinks after having eaten. He counsels taking in the morning mithirstate or the-
. . . . =) ae . riaca, with a little good wine or malvoisie, or the leaves of rue with a

<<<Page: 388>>>

nut and dried figs, which, he adds, “‘ are remedies of singular efficiency.” And “let not those who have a suspicion of having been poisoned, sleep; for the force of the venom is sometimes so great, so contrary to nature, that it exerts its power, and its effect in the body is like that of fire in dried straw.’
“The true way to avoid poisoned perfumes,” he adds, in concluding, ‘is never to smell them; to fly such perfumers as you would the plague, drive them out of the kingdom of France, and send them among Turks and infidels.”
Modern science has revealed the nature of these poisons so subtle, so mysterious, and so dreaded.
The torch of chemistry has explored the secret chambers of those “wicked poisoners and perfaumers
Armed with its light the law is enabled to cast a shield around every individual, and give to the humblest a consciousness of safety which, in former times, “the most powerful could not enjoy.
But science in this respect is not yet perfect. There are still substances mysterious, subtle, and dangerous, for which neither tests nor antidotes have been discovered. Many of the savage tribes of America possess the art, unknown to civilized man, of imbuing their weapons with a substance so deadly that a slight wound from one of them is dangerous, if not fatal. ~ The venom of serpents, the smallest drop of which brought in contact with the blood in the system is fatal, cannot be distinguished by chemical tests from the most harmless mucus or saliva.
There is reason to believe that this venom is sometimes employed by maa; that he arms himselt with the substance bestowed by Providence on the serpent for its defence, and uses it for the purpose of procuring subsistence or satisfying his destructive instincts.
Of the serpents which are furnished with this poison, the most common and dangerous is the crotalus, or rattlesnake, several varieties of which are found in the western and southern States of the Union, where they constitute an object of dread, and a source of danger to the first settlers of the country.
The rattlesnake derives its name from the peculiar structure of its tail, on which are arranged a number of rings called the rattle, with which a sound is made not ualike the buzzing of the wings of certain insects. ‘Che number of these rings increases with its age; but it 1s not certain that they correctly indicate the number of years it has lived.
The rattle is generally sounded whenever the serpent is angry, so that those familiar with the noise may avoid the danger; but in many instances the wound is inflicted without any warning “being given.
The rattle itself is to be regarded as a means of ‘defence 3 in addition to the fangs and venom; for the peculiar note which it produces i is terrifying to most Binds and they shrink from it with instinctive fear.
“It seems to have been regarded by some of the aboriginal inhabitants of America as highly ornamental, for it is one of the objects which the natives of central Atnerica have most frequently represented 1 in the carvings of stone with which they decorated the front of their temples.
The apparatus by which this serpent inflicts a wound and deposits

<<<Page: 389>>>

the venom within it, excels in delicacy and perfection any instrument for inoculation which human ingenuity has as yet been able to devise.
It consists of moveable fangs or teeth placed one or more on either side of the mouth beneath the upper jaw.
They are exceedingly sharp, curved, and move upon a hinge, so that, when in a state of repose, they he with the oe bac kwards, almost covered by the membrane of the mouth. The fang 1s perforated at its root by a canal which terminates near the point in a groove.
It is through this that the venom is ejected so as to be thrown, not upon the surface, but deposited at the bottom of the wound.
When about to strike, the fangs are raised so as to project directly forward, and the serpent coils himself so that, in the act of straightening, the head is thrust with great force a distance of about half his length. At the moment when the fang is most perfectly projected, the same muscle which elevates it presses also on the sac which contains the venom and ejects it, through the canal of the tooth, with force ; so that, if the object is not attained, it is thrown to a certain distance, and may be seen falling in drops.
If the object aimed at is attained, as soon as the the teeth are inserted they are turned backward and drawn through the flesh like hooks to lacerate it. Indeed it often happens that the animal bitten, by a sudden movement draws the serpent after him, or that the fangs themselves are left in the wound.
The serpent, too, with the subtle instinct of his nature, as soon as the wound is inflicted, coils himself so as to resist being moved and thus inflicts a severe injury.
Nature, as if this weapon were indispensable to the species, has provided in the most ample manner for its indefinite reproduction when accidentally removed or shed at stated periods.
There exists at the side of the principal teeth in use, several others in different stages of development, which, in case’any are shed or removed, grow and supply their place.
The gland which forms the venom corresponds to the largest of the salivary glands in man. The duct through which it is discharged is enlarged so as to form a reservoir capable of containing several drops, which may be kept in reserve.
That the saliva of one class of animals should contain the most concentrated venom, while that of others is the mildest of fluids, presents a contrast of the strongest character; but a certain analogy can be traced even in this instance, for in all animals when rabid, the saliva becomes poisonous, and in many, as in men, it sometimes assumes a certain degree of activity which renders it dangerous from the effect of anger alone.
The venom of the rattlesnake is a fluid of the consistence and color of olive oil; it has a peculiar and disagreeable odor, and is said to have a pungent taste.
There is no chemical test by which it is distinguished, nor are any peculiar appearances to be observed in it by the most powerful microscope.
It may be swallowed without danger. All the venom which could be extracted from several serpents mixed with water and poured into

<<<Page: 390>>>

the mouth of a young bird in the nest when it opened its beak for food, did it no injury.
Persons bitten by serpents generally experience, as the first effect, an intense pain in the part wounded—vertigo, nausea, fainting, and coldness.
If the venom has been inoculated directly into a vein, these symptoms terminate in death ina short time. If not, the part swells, becomes discolored, spotted over the surface of the member, and sometimes over the entire body.
The swelling is sometimes very great, extending over a large surface; but the heat and inflammatory reaction «chiek accompany it are ofa laa grade.
If the amount of venom which has been deposited be small, or the wound has been properly treated, the swelling after having reached a certain point slowly subsides, but the part affected remains for a long time indurated. It has even been supposed that the extraordinary enlargement known under the name of elephantiasis is in many cases a remote effect of this wound.
As soon as the swelling commences to subside, another danger threatens the patient, viz: passive hemorrhage. The constitutional effects of the poison are such that they produce a dissolved state of the blood like that which exists in scurvy. Hence bleeding is liable to occur from the mouth, lungs, bowels, ulcerated surfaces, or the slightest wounds, or trom all these at a time.
In a case which occurred in the Illinois general hospital, the blood which flowed from the gums was found so entirely destitute of fibrine, the principle upon which the coagulation depends, that no trace of it could be detected under the microscope. At this state the breath exhales a fetid odor, which is not only sickening at the moment, but which is said to have produced serious illness in fiese exposed for a length of time to its influence.
Bites which occur about the face are much more dangerous than those upon the extremities.
This discoloration results from the dissolved state of the blood which gives rise to hemorrhage, mortification, and death.
Nevertheless, the bite even of the most venomous species of serpents is not invariably nor even generally fatal.
There are seasons when they are inactive and inflict but a slight wound. The venom is at times much less virulent than at others, or it may have been exhausted by repeated bites. Small serpents have not sufficient force to penetrate the skin, and bites where the sikxin is thick or covered with clothing are least dangerous.
On the other hand iG the serpent be old, of large size, and the bite occur in the commencement of summer, the danger i is very great.
There is reason to believe that the poison used by the fdian tribes on their arrows, is, in many cases, nothing else than the venom of the serpent preserved in a peculiar manner.
Mr. Schomburgh himself says that the belief, that animal poisons entered into its composition was so rooted in Guiana, that on the occasion of his second visit, in 1837, he was unable to eradicate it.
Messrs. Bernard and Pelouze, i in a memoir presented to the Academy of Sciences at Paris, in 1850, express the opinion that it acts in the

<<<Page: 391>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Lae
manner of a venom, that is an animal poison. They state that M. Goudot, who furnished them with the specimen they employed, had resided many yeurs in South America, and was fully aware of the method of its preparation, and that he assured them that the poison of the most venomous serpents constantly entered into its composition.
He even described the manner of taking the serpents, and extracting the poison.
An intelligent traveller in California informs me that the Digger Indians in that State possess the art of poisoning their arrows, and that the substance which they use for the purpose 1s well known to be obtained from the rattlesnake.
Dr. George Johnson, of St. Louis, also told me that several tribes of Indians on the Rio Grande employ the venom of the serpent for this purpose, and that there is a species known to them which have the vesicles receiving the venom so large as to contain a quantity sufficient to poison a great number of arrows.
An intelligent ESPN, who had resided many years in the Kast Indies, states that the traditional account of the method of preparing the woorara of that country is, that the venom of serpents is mixed with it to form the most active part.
This substance called woorara, curare, corare, tiennas, has been variously described by different travellers as being of an animal or a vege-
table nature, or a mixture of the two. . Sir Walter Raleigh is said to have been the first who heard of its existence; but certain missionaries in South America gave at an early day an account of its effects, but so mingled with fanciful details as to deprive it of most of its value as authority.
At the commencement of the present century, Humboldt gave a detailed account of its manufacture, stating that it is prepared by heat from the bark of a certain vine called by the natives on the bank of the Amazon, beyuco de menacure mixed with the juice of certain other plants Lo give it consistence.
De le Condamine states that it is an extract made by heat from the juices of divers plants, about 30 in number, and that the bejuco is one of them. :
tobert H. Schomburgk* confirms in most respects the account given by Humboldt. He named the vine from which it is obtained, Siryclinds toxifcra.
‘he Reverend Thomas Yond, who resided as a missionary in English Guiana, describes its mode of preparation very minutely. He states that two species of Strychnos and six other species of plants enter into its composition.
Mr. Schomburgk treats as entirely fabulous the accounts of the employment of animal substance es, such as poisonous ants or the venom of serpents, in its preparation; and most English writers seem to consider it certain that it owes its activity to strychnine.
On the other hand Boussingault and Roulin, (Annales de Chimie, September, 1828,) who made an analysis of it, state that it does not contain strychnine but a vegetable principle very different from it.
Its effects on the system sufficiently indicate that its action does not
* Annals and Magazine of Natural History, vol. VII, p. 407.

<<<Page: 392>>>

depend on strychnine. It affects the brain, producing fainting, insensibility, and paralysis; while strychnine acts upon the spinal marrow, producing convulsions but leaving the consciousness intact.
When injected into the veins, even in the minutest quantity, it kills in a few seconds, while a much larger quantity of strychnine is required to cause death when thus administered.
Mr. Charles Waterton, in his Wanderings in South America, states that in addition to the woorara vine, the natives employ in its composition the black and red ant and the fangs of serpents, which, he adds, they invariably extract and preserve whenever occasion is presented.
From a chemical analysis of this substance which I had made, though not completed, but which has revealed formic acid and a protean compound among its constituents, | am enabled to state with great certainty that aaimal substances enter to a certain extent at least into its composition.
Humboldt, in his voyage to the equinoctial regions of South America, states that Indians, who had been wounded by poisoned arrows, described to him the effects as identical with those of the bite of serpents.
These effects, as noticed in experiments on animals and birds, seem to me to bear the closest analogy with those of the venom of serpents, if they are not identical.
The fact that the woorara is, like the poison of serpents, innocuous when swallowed, strongly militates against the opinion that it is strychnine, or, indeed, any vegetable alkaloid. As usually met with, the kind which is brought from South America is contained in small gourds, over the internal surface of which it is spread. On being detached it presents a dark color, has a resinous fracture, a bitter taste, is readily mixed with water, but imperfectly dissolved by it. Its appearance 1s the same when mixed with alcohol; but both these fluids dissolve the active principle of it. The solution is acid. If the quantity of water used be small, the mixture has aropy, tenacious consistence. The solution is coagulated by the nitrate of silver, and by the solution of iodine and iodide of potash in distilled water, and, when treated with the latter solution, neither the part coagulated nor the fluid expressed from it retains its poisonous quality. It does not eflervesce with acids. Its aqueous solution is not coagulated by heat, and boiling does not impair its activity.
‘The manner in which poisonous substances act in producing their effects has long been regarded as one of the most difficult subjects in the wide range of nature. So long as the doctrines of astrology prevailed, they were supposed to derive their properties from the malign influence of the stars.
Ambroise Paré, certainly one of the most enlightened men of his time, was governed by the then prevailing doctrine when he said: ‘ Poisons which act by a specific nature do not produce their effects because they are hot, or cold, or dry, or of an excessive humidity, but because they have that peculiar property of the celestial influences which is contrary to human nature.”
In the infancy of toxicology the effect of nearly all poisons was referred to sympathy. ;
When they were applied to wounds, and the heart ceased to act, it

<<<Page: 393>>>

was said to be from a sympathetic affection, cone some mysterious manner by the nerves. i,
The statement that any such impression is conveyed isha purely gratuitous as was the explanation of the pressure of the atmosphere by the simple expression, ‘nature abhors a vacuum.’
Since the experiments of Magendie, in 1809, on the subject of absorption, it has generally been admitted that most poisons produce their effect on the system by bemg absorbed and carried into the circulation, and that they exert their influence by virtue of their peculiar properties.
Conia digitaline and nicotine destroy the action of the heart; strychnia acts upon the spinal marrow; opium, the woorara, and ‘poison of serpents on the brain.
Now, although the absorption of poisons, and their presence physi-
cally in the Wood and organs, is a most important fact,—one, indeed, upon which the whole science of toxicology reposes,—it is not to be imagined for a moment that it affords the slightest explanation of their mode of action.
The question stili remains, whether they act by beinz applied to the sentient extremities of the nerves, or in some other manner not yet understood.
Liebig has offered the explanation, that the poison by some chemical change is converted into the substance of brain, which is thereby rendered unfit to support vital energy.
This hypothesis is entirely gratuitous, improbable, and, in view of the rapid action of many substances on the brain, impossible.
Fontana was much nearer the truth when about a century ago he attributed death from the poison of the viper to the effect produced on the blood. He was of the opinion that, injected into the veins of animals, it caused coagulation of the blood, which arrested the circulation. He made more than six thousand experiments with vipers, repeated and varied in every possible way. In regard to the coagulation of the blood in this case, 1 am not able to deny that it may occur, as I have not experimented with vipers; but I am sure it is the reverse of what takes place from the bite of the rattlesnake, for it is uniformly found dissolved after death from this cause, and incapable of coagulating to the same extent as in health. Jam also certain that a change does occur in the form of the globules of blood in pigeons and frogs poisoned by woorara and the bite of the rattlesnake.
If the wing of a bat or the web of a frog’s foot be subjected during life to observation beneath the focus of a microscope, innumerable small bodies are seen hurrying along the arteries, towards their extremities, traversing the small, hair-like vessels called capillaries, and returning towards the heart by the veins.
These bodies are the blood globules. They vary in form in dif-
“ferent classes of animals, being circular and flattened in men, and ovoid in birds and frogs.
The integrity of these globules is essential to life; for whenever they become altered, they adhere to the sides of the ‘vessels and to one another, and can no longer traverse the capillaries.
The theory that poisons alter the form of the globules, so as to render
Mis. Doc. 24-9

<<<Page: 394>>>

them unfit for circulation, is not a new one, for Fontana alludes to it, but says he had not been able to detect in them any change.
This arose, no doubt, from the imperfect instruments employed, and from the deficient means of examination. Fontana claimed to have invented the microscope, but only used a single lens, and examined blood in considerable quantities. é
By using the most perfect microscope, and examining the blood of |
frogs and of pigeons, in which the globules are ovoid and of large size, I have been able to discover that, after poisoning by serpent bite or the woorara, their form is constantly altered, so that, instead of being of a distinct and regular outline, they are found irregular, mdented, and partially disintegrated.
Those taken from the capillaries are most, those from the heart and large vessels least affected ; but even of the former only a small portion of the whole number will be found changed, as death takes place before all have time to become mutually affected.
When death occurs quickly from the effect of the bite of the rattlesnake or from the woorara, it is, in my view, from these substances being absorbed, and acting upon the blood by altering the form of the globules, so as to render them unfit for circulation, whereby they are arrested in the capillary vessels of the brain, and thus destroy its action.
There are doubtless other changes produced on the circulating fluid besides this of the globules.
The late Dr. J. W. Burnett, of Boston, noticed that when blood obtained by pricking his finger was mingled with the venom of the rattlesnake, the globules ceased to run together, as they naturally do.
But I think the change of the globules which I have detected is of itself quite sufficient to account for the sudden effects even of the most violent poisons.
The belief that some substances cause death by their effect upon the blood seems to have prevailed long before it was expressed by Fontana.
Shakspeare, with that intuitive perception of truth characteristic of his writings, has adopted it in his account of the killing of the king, when the ghost thus describes to Hamlet the effects of the poison:
‘¢ Sleeping within mine orchard, My custom always in the afternoon, Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole, With juice of cursed hebanon in a vial, And in the porches of mine ears did pour The leperous distilment, whose effect Bears such an enmity to the blood of man That, swift as quicksilver, it courses through The natural gates and alleys of the body, And, with a sudden vigor, it doth posset And curd, like eager droppings into milk, The thin and wholesome blood ; so did it mine, And a most instant tetter marked about, Most lazar like, with vile and loathsome crust, All my smooth body.”
We arrive now at the consideration of the second part of our subject, the treatment of poisoning by serpent bite, and the woorara.
According to the division of scientific studies most commonly adopted, the pursuit of science for itself, pure science as it is called, ranks above any practical application of it, however important and useful this latter

<<<Page: 395>>>

may be, though I regard it important in proportion as it has capacities for useful application.
One might indeed devote himself to the pursuit of some of the natural sciences for the inherent pleasure which it affords.
But the study of the venom of serpents and its effects would be surrounded by few attractions, were it not that the knowledge thus acquired may be made available for the relief of some of the severest accidents to which man is subject.
The experiments upon birds and animals required to carry out these researches are painful, and can only be justified by the benefit which results from their performance.
In this country there is fortunately less occasion than in some others for defending the study of the practical applications of science, as the genius of the people, and their habits, tend to practical results rather than abstract researches. It is indeed possible that to many scientific men of our country the classic fable of Atalanta, who, in turning aside to seize the golden apple, lost the prize of the race, may not be inapplicable.
In reference to the venom of the rattlesnake there is much need that further investigations should be instituted.
It is a substance for which, as I have already said, no antidote has hitherto been known, and concerning the nature of which no adequate researches have ever been made.
What is required is a series of experiments in regard to it similar to those which Fontana performed with the viper.
The treatment resorted to for serpent bites varies in different countries, that remedy being generally selected which tradition or accident may have suggested ; and it would be a waste of time to enumerate all those inert or deleterious articles whose use has been recommended even in books of medicine and surgery. It may suffice to say, under this head, that scarcely any substance can be named so inert as not to have been recommended, or so disgusting as not to have been employed; nor is any practice so absurd as not to have found favor with the profession.
Among them may be mentioned burying the member bitten in fresh earth, thrusting it into the entrails of animals, or even putting the whole body of the patient into an ox laid open for the purpose—practices which, as they are either cooling or sweating, are not destitute of plausible reasons in their favor.
Arsenic, in the form of the Tanjore pill, has been extensively used by British practitioners both in the East and West Indies; but although many successful cases were cited in its favor, it has fallen into disuse.
Among intelligent physicians of the present day the treatment consists in washing the part, sucking it, or applying cups, to extract the poison, using caustic for the purpose of destroying it, while stimulants, such as ammonia and alcohol, are administered internally.
Of these means, washing, applying ligatures upon the members, and cupping, are those alone whose utility has been well established by reason and experience.
That the removal of as much as possible of the venom from the wound is useful, is self-evident, and sucking it for this purpose seems

<<<Page: 396>>>

to have been an instinctive act; for not only does tradition relate that it
“was in use in ancient times and among savage nations, but history informs us that it has been resorted to more recently. Among-the notable instances of which may be mentioned that of Queen Eleanor, wife of Edward I, who, it is stated, sucked the wound which her husband received from a poisoned dagger in the war of the Crusades, oi chet preserving his life.
The application of ligatures around a ine bitten, as it retards absorption, has the same effect as introducing the poison in divided doses, and at longer intervals of time. In this way quantities might safely be received, which, if carriedsat once into the blood, would prove quickly fatal.
Cupping-glasses exhausted over the wound act in the same manner, with the additional advantage, that by drawing fluids from the part they may remove at least a portion of the venom.
The value of these means has been tested by ae experiments upon various animals and with different classes 0 f poisons.
Of the applications resorted to, aqua ammonia is that mostly relied upon. But Fontana found that mixing it with the venom of vipers only hastened death. He also found that alcohol, oil, the mineral acids, and alkalies, (except caustic potash, which instantly destroys the tissues, ) nitrate of silver, incisions in the part, and even amputating the member bitten, did not prevent a fatal termination.
In my experiments with the rattlesnake | have found that mixing the venom with alcohol, oil of turpentine, nitrate of silver in solution, or ammonia, did not dindinvich its activity.
The solutions of soda and potash have no effect in retar ding its action, unless sufficiently strong to destroy the tissues by acting as a caustic.
My friend, Dr. J. C. ‘“Morfit, who aided me in my experiments, tried liquor potassze, a solution of bicarb. of soda, tincture of arnica, and ammonia in water. The result of my observation is, that to the present time no substance has been found in any degree capable of neutralizing the venom of the serpent or the woorara, Tried destroying the part bitten, except the solution of iodine, and iodide of potassium, in water. Of the virtues of this solution I shall have occasion to speak hereafter.
Alcohol taken internally to intoxication has at the present time the reputation of counteracting the effects of the venom of the rattlesnake.
The evidence in its favor is scarcely sufficient to justify the confidence reposed in it, as the following facts will show :
Ist. The venom, when mixed with alcohol, is rapidly fatal if imoculated.
2d. Alcohol introduced into the stomach of birds or animals bitten hastens death.
dd. Persons bitten by rattlesnakes when in a state of intoxication are not, on that account, secure.
Ihave authentic information of several cases in which the bite of that serpent proved rapidly fatal on intoxicated persons. I think it certain, however, that the effect of alcohol taken in this way is beneficial rather than injurious; but this is not my belief in regard to ammonia, which I think calculated to favor the action of the poison rather than retard it.

<<<Page: 397>>>

Among the substances in popular use in the western States of the Union, I ought not to omit to speak of the sulphate of alumina or alum. This and other astringents are principally useful in that stage of the affection when hemorrhages are liable to occur, and they may then be employed with advantage both as ittrnal remedies and local applicacations.
It may be expected that I should here speak of those plants which, under the name of rattlesnake weeds or roots, possess, in the popular belief, a specific virtue against the bite of this serpent. The plant known under this name in many parts of the west is a species of Liatris, having a broad leaf with spines along the edges. It has a pungent aromatic taste, and is a diffusible stimulant of moderate force. ‘The manner in which it is generally used is by beating it up into a poultice and placing it upon the part, and also taking an infusion as a drink. It has no specific virtues as an antidote, as I have known deaths to occur after its usé; but as astimulant it may be, in some degree, useful.
There are many other plants, also, reputed to possess similar virtues, among which may be mentioned Eryngium aquaticum, or buttonsnake root; several species of Impatiens, or jewel weed; the Eupaiorium perfoliatum, or boneset; the Scrophularia, the Scutellaria, the Plantago, and probably many others; of all of which it is sufficient to say, that there is no conclusive evidence to justify their being regarded in the light of specifics, though, like the Lats, they may be more or less useful in certain cases.
As remedies are by some deemed important from having been used by the Indians, it may be mentioned that the Impatiens, or jewel weed, is said to be often employed by them. A medical officer of the army informs me that the common nettle applied as a poultice, and taken in infusion, is a favorite treatment among the Cherokees. For this, as for hydrophobia and most diseases, there are secret remedies, possessing, according to report, the most instantaneous and marvellous power of neutralizing the action of the poison.
There exists, according to popular belief, a tree whose smallest branch or leaf has the effect if placed before a serpent of rendering him so timid and fearful that he will neither bite nor resent the roughest treatment, nor can he live in the region where it grows. The leaves possess the power (according to the same vague report) when beaten up and placed on the bitten part of instantly causing the pain to cease; so that the patient, like one touched by a hand of miraculous power, is straightway cured. The tree which is reported to possess such virtue is nothing else than a species of Frazimus, or common ash. It is certain that it has none of the powers ascribed to it, either on the actions of the serpent or the effects of its venom.
Having made many experiments, with a view of determining the action of various substances on the venom of the rattlesnake and on the woorara, I have found but one which, in any degree, neutralizes it without destroying the tissues of the part.
The solution of iodine and iodide of potassium in water possesses the , power, when properly used, of invariably retarding death, if it does not prevent it. [he manner in which the experiments were conducted

<<<Page: 398>>>

with the woorara, was, in the first place, to ascertain the quantit required to cause death.
In general I found } of a grain to killa pigeon in five minutes, when injected under the skin.
2. I then mixed the same quantity with 20 drops of a solution of
iodine and iodide of potassium, of the strength of 10 grains of the former and ot of the latter to the ounce of distilled water, and injected it under the skin of the pigeon. It produced no sensible effect.
3. I threw the poison under the skin of the pigeon, and applying a cupping glass lightly on the part, injected the solution of iodine through the same canula. No symptom of poisoning followed.
4. I covered a deep wound of the muscle in a pigeon with a paste made of the woorara and water. The bird died in five minutes.
5. I repeated the same experiment, but washed the wound with the solution of iodine. There was no bad effect.
These experiments have been repeated by myself alone, and, in connexion with others, more than a hundred times with the same results. I feel confident, therefore, that their accuracy cannot be called in question, and that, in regard to the woorara, it is quite safe to affirm that the solution of iodine neutralizes its action. In making this statement, | would by no means be understood as asserting that it does so in all circumstances and in all proportions. ‘The circumstances which prevent its doing so are the introduction of the poison in such a situation that the solution cannot reach it, or so directly into the circulation that it has not time to act upon it. In most cases of wound neither of these conditions is likely to occur.
According to the experiments which I have made for the purpose of
determining the proportion of iodine required to neutralize the poison, it appears that one third of a grain of woorara is perfectly neutralized by one eighth of a grain of iodine.
The treatment of the bite of the serpent is more difficult to determine by oe ee than that of the wounds poisoned by woorara. The bite itself is often profound, penetrating so deeply that applications cannot be made to the bottom of-it without inflicting an additional injury, which, in itself; would be dangerous to small animals. On the other hand, if the venom be first extracted from the serpent, and then inoculated, its action is uncertain. Much of what appears to be venom is, probably, only saliva, which serves as a vehicle, and is with difficulty distinguished from it. Nevertheless, [ have succeeded in saving more than half the birds bitten, and in greatly prolonging life in those which died.
The manner in which these experiments are conducted is as follows:
The bite having been inflicted on a given part, by having the serpent properly confined, immediately apply a cupping glass lightly upon the point, then insert a fine trochar beneath the cupping glass, under the skin, and, while the air is being exhausted, press the solution of iodine into the tissues of the part w ith a small syringe adapted to the canula of the trochar. The cupping glass is retained upon the wound until the solution has had time to disseminate itself, and become mixed with the poison.
In case of a superficial wound, when the treatment could be applied

<<<Page: 399>>>

immediately, nothing more would be required than to wash it with the solution.
As pigeons, upon which these experiments were made, are more easily affected than mammals, the antidote which succeeds with them more certainly succeeds in case of the bite on man.
The principle on which the iodine operates in counteracting the effect of these poisons, is most probably from its antiseptic properties.
They belong to a class described by Orfila under the name of putrefactive poisons, characterized by being innocuous, or of little activity, when swallowed, but causing wounds upon which they are applied to run rapidly into mortification.
Iodine, like chlorine, has the effect of counteracting this change ; preventing the discoloration which results from such wounds, and the alteration of the blood to which they give rise, while it possesses over chlorine the additional advantage of not causing inflammation or mortification, when injected under the skin and disseminated in the tissues.
The practice of injecting it into the parts, instead of applying it upon the surface, is founded upon the principle, now well established in toxicology, that an antidote, to be effectual, must not only be introduced into the system, but brought in contact with the poison where it physically exists.
Now for all inoculated poisons it is clear that to comply with this condition the antidote must also be inoculated; that is, introduced into the same tissues, and take its course through the same vessels which the poison has to traverse, to reach the vital organs.
When the poison is inoculated and the antidote swallowed, or applied on the surface, it is impossible that they could be brought in contact in more than the minutest proportions.
Used in this way, the iodine also favors the production of adhesive inflammation, whereby lymph is effused and coagulated around the wound, absorption retarded, and the disease rendered less diffusive. In this respect iodine, injected under the skin, is more efficient than blisters or cauterization with the nitrate of silver, which can only act superficially.
Although I have advanced the theory that iodine is an antidote to septic poisons, by virtue of its anti-putrescent properties, I would not, by any means, be understood as limiting its effects to this method of action. On the contrary, I believe it is, to a certain extent, an antidote for some poisons pertaining to other classes.
Donné found it to counteract the action of strychnia to a great degree; and I have observed that it has a very considerable power as an antidote to prussic acid, an action which its analogy to chlorine would lead us to expect, as chlorine is well known to prevent the effects of this acid.
The plan of treatment which I recommend for the bite of serpents and wounds from poisoned arrows, is—
Ist. To wash the part with a solution of iodine and iodide of potassium, and apply cupping-glasses over the wound, or ligatures around the member, so as to prevent absorption.
2d. If the wound be deep, or if absorption has already taken place,

<<<Page: 400>>>

I recommend injecting the solution under the skin, beneath the cuppingglass, and disseminating it by friction about the wound.
This recommendation is founded upon the result of over one hundred experiments with the woorara, and about sixty with the rattlesnake, made upon pigeons, dogs, cats, rabbits, and guinea-pigs.
This treatment can be combined with the administration, internally, of such remedies as may be thought most useful; and among these alcohol, in some form, taken freely is, in the present state of our knowledge, to be preferred.

<<<Page: 401>>>

No. I.—THE ZONE OF SMALL PLANETS BETWEEN MARS AND JUPITER. BY PROFESSOR ELIAS LOOMIS, OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK.
Seventy-five years since, the only planets known to men of science were the same which were known to the Chaldean shepherds thousands of years ago. Between the orbit of Mars and that of Jupiter there occurs an interval of no less than three hundred and fifty millions of miles, in which no planet was known to exist before the commencement of the present century. Nearly three centuries ago the immortal Kepler had pointed out something like a regular progression in the distance of the planets as far as Mars, which was broken in the case of Jupiter. Being unable to reconcile the actual state of the planetary system with any theory he could form respecting it, he hazarded the conjecture that a planet really existed between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, and that its smallness alone prevented it from being visible to astronomers. But Kepler himself soon rejected this idea as improbable, and it does not appear to have received any favor from the astronomers of that time.
An astronomer of Florence, by the name of Sizzi, took decided ground against all such innovations of doctrine. He maintained that since there are only seven apertures in the head—two eyes, two ears, two nostrils, and one mouth—and since there are only seven metals, and seven days in the weeks, so there can be only seven planets. These seven planets, according to the ancient systems of astronomy, were Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon.
In 1772, Professor Bode, of Berlin, first announced the singular relation between the distances of the planets from the sun, which has since been distinguished by the name of Bode’s law. This law exhibited in a striking light the abrupt leap from Mars to Jupiter, and suggested the probability of a planet revolving in the intermediate region. This conjecture was rendered still more plausible by the discovery in 1781 of the planet Uranus, whose distance from the sun was found to conform nearly with the law of Bode. In Germany, especially, a strong impression had been produced that a planet really existed between Mars and Jupiter, and the Baron de Zach went so far as to compute the orbit of the ideal planet, the elements of which he published in the Berlin Almanac. In the year 1800, several astronomers, of whom the Baron was one, formed an association, whose object was to effect the discovery of the unseen body. For this purpose the zodiac was divided into twenty-four zones, one of which was to be explored by ‘each astronomer. Soon after the formation of this society the planet was. _ discovered, but not by any of those astronomers who were engaged ex_ pressly in searching tor it. Piazzi, the celebrated Italian astronomer,

<<<Page: 402>>>

while engaged in constructing his great catalogue of stars, was induced carefully to. examine, several ‘nights i in succession, a part of the constellation Taurus, in which Wollaston, by mistake, had assigned the position of a star which did not really exist. On the first of de anuary, 1801,
Piazzi observed a small star which, on the following evening, appeared. to have changed its place. On the third, he repeated his observations, and he now felt assured that the star had a retrograde motion in the zodiac. He continued to observe the star until the 11th of February, when he was seized with an illness which interrupted his labors. After the planet had approached too near the sun to admit of further observations for that season, Piazzi communicated to astronomers all his observations. Professor Gauss found that they might all be satisfied by an elliptic orbit, of which he computed the clewental The planet was re-discovered on the 3lst of December, almost exactly in the place which had been predicted by Gauss; and it received the name of Ceres.
The distance of Ceres from the sun was found to be almost exactly the same as had been assigned by Bode’s law. In this respect, therefore, the newly discovered planet harmonized with the other bodies of the system to which it belonged. The new planet was, however, excessively minute, its diameter, according to Herschel’s measurements, amounting to only one hundred and sixty-one miles.
The discovery of this planet was soon followed by another of a similar nature. Dr. Olbers, while engaged in searching for Ceres, had caretully studied the positions of all “the small stars lying near her path. On the 28th of March, 1802, after observing Ceres, he swept over the vicinity with an instrument termed a ‘*comet seeker,” and was astonished to find a star of the seventh magnitude in a position where he was sure no star had been visible the preceding month. In less than three hours, he found that its place had changed. On the following evening he looked again for his star, and found that its motion was unquestionable. The elements of its orbit were soon determined by Professor Gauss, who found that its distance from the sun was nearly the same as that of Ceres; and it received the name of Pallas.
A comparison of the relative magnitudes of the planetary orbits had suggested the existence of an unknown planet revolving between Mars and Jupiter. Instead of one planet, however, two had been discovered. Olbers remarked that there was a point where the orbits of these two bodies approached very near each other; and he conjectured that they might possibly be the fragments of a larger planet, which had been split i in pieces by some tremendous catastrophe ; ; and he intimated that there might be many more fragments which had not yet been discovered. He also inferred that. according to this theory, the orbits of
all the fragments would have two common points of intersection situated -
in Opposite parts of the heavens, through which every fragment must pass in the course of each revolution. He therefore proposed every month to search carefully the two points of the heavens in which the orbits of Ceres and Pallas were found to intersect each other. The speedy discovery of a third planet tended to confirm the truth of this hypothesis.
On the Ist of September, 1804, Protessor fie ding discovered a small

<<<Page: 403>>>

star very near the place where Olbers had asserted that the fragments of the shattered planet must all pass. On the evening of the fourth he found that the star had changed its place. This planet was named Juno. Its orbit was computed by Gauss, who found its distance from the sun to coincide nearly with those of Ceres and Pallas.
Stimulated by this new discovery, Olbers continued with unwearied assiduity to explore the two regions of the heavens already referred to, and, after three years of laborious search, his perseverance was crowned with suecess. On the 29th of March, 1807, he discovered a small star in a place where none had been found in his previous examinations. He soon satisfied himself that this object was a planet; and it received the name of Vesta. The elements of the orbit were determined by Gauss, who found its distance from the sun to be a little less than that of Ceres, Pallas, or Juno.
Dr. Olbers continued his systematic examination of the heavens until 1816, but was rewarded by no further planetary discoveries.
In 1825, a fresh impulse was given to researches of this nature by the resolution of the Berlin Academy , to procure the construction of a series of charts showing the position of all stars down to the ninth magnitude situated within fifteen degrees of the equator. Only about two thirds of the charts contemplated in this great undertaking have yet
been executed.
After the discovery of Vesta, succeeded a long interval of thirty-eight
years, during which the excitement created by these first discoveries
subsided, and the search for new planets was generally abandoned. At length, in 1845, a fifth asteroid was announced by an observer
hitherto unknown to fame, Hencke, of Germany. In 1847, the same
observer announced a sixth asteroid, and from this time numerous observers in every part of Europe devoted much of their time, while some devoted nearly all of their energies to the search for planetary bodies ; and discoveries at once multiplied with astonishing rapidity. Three
| new asteroids were discovered in 1847, one in 1848, one in 1849, three
in 1850, two in 1851, eight in 1852, four in 1853, and six have been
Einiouniced during the year 1854, making at the present time a total of
| thirty-three. OF these thirtythree ten were first discovered by Mr. _ Hind, of London ; seven by Dr. Gasparis, of Naples; three by Luther,
of Bilk; while Dr. Olbers, of Bremen, Hencke, of Driesen, Chacornac,
of Paris, and Goldsmith, also of Paris, have each of them discovered _ two asteroids; and Piazzi, Harding, Graham, Marth, and finally Fer-
guson, of our own National Olsen atory, have each discovered one. Moreover, in several instances, the same planet has been independently
discovered by more than one astronomer.
In scarcely a single instance could these discoveries be termed the
result of accident. They have been the result of a laborious search
expressly undertaken forthe discovery of these bodies. Mr. Hind, who
has been the most successful explorer i in this field, nearly ten years ago
commenced comparing the Berlin charts with the heavens, and began
to map down for himself the stars in other regions of the ecliptic, W nich did not fall within the limits of the Berlin charts. Any discrepancy
between the stars on the maps and the stars in the heavens was carefully scrutinized; so that if a new star presumed to show itself within

<<<Page: 404>>>

the limits of the charts, it was at once pounced upon as an unlicensed.
wanderer.
The discoveries of Gasparis were also made partly by comparing the Berlin maps with the heavens, and partly by a series of observations in zones of declination, made for the express purpose of finding new planets. Nearly all the asteroids have been discovered by a systematic comparison of the visible state of the heavens, with the state as
recorded in charts.
The rapid discovery of twenty-nine new asteroids, after a barren interval of almost forty years from the discovery of Vesta, is calculated to excite surprise; but it is explained by the diminutive size of the new
planets, and the great increase in the number of observers, as well as °
the use of more powerful instruments. Vesta appears like a star of the sixth magnitude, Pallas of the seventh, while Ceres and Juno are of the eighth. Of the twenty-nine asteroids more recently discovered, none of them, with perhaps two exceptions, are larger than the ninth magnitude, while several are as small as the tenth, and one or two scarcely, if ever, rise so high as the tenth magnitude. The reason that Olbers was not more successful in his search was that he employed a telescope of too feeble power, and did not extend his examination be-
yond stars of the eighth magnitude.
Some may conclude that the number of asteroids already known is so great that the discovery of additional ones is a matter of no interest, and is unworthy the attention of astronomers. I regard the question in a very different light. If only one planet had hitherto been discovered between Mars and Jupiter, our idea of the simplicity and perfection of the solar system would have been satisfied; and there might have been found ingenious minds attempting to prove by a priori reasoning, that no other planets could possibly exist, unless beyond the limits of the orbit of Neptune. But our theory of the solar system, although apparently simple, would not have been the true theory. Every new discovery shows the solar system to be more complex than we had supposed; and unless we prefer error (provided it has a show of simplicity) to truth, when it appears to our view complex, we shall value every new discovery in the solar system, because it promises to conduct us nearer to the true theory of the universe. Every new asteroid which is discovered is a new fact to be explained. It presents a new test by which every theory is to be tried. The true philosopher, instead of regarding the rapidly increasing number of asteroids with indifference, will watch each new discovery with growing interest, in
the hope that it may furnish the key to the true theory of the solar
system.
The existence of thirty-three planets revolving round the sun, at dis-
tances closely allied to each other, and differin
g from all the other
planets in their diminutive size, is one of the most singular phenomena in our solar system. This fact will appear the more striking if we draw a diagram representing the orbits of all the known planets in their proper proportions. We shall find that while the orbits of Mercury, Venus, the earth, and Mars are quite detached from each other, and the orbits of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune are separated by
intervals which the imagination can
scarcely grasp; between Mars

<<<Page: 405>>>

and Jupiter is a cluster of bodies whose orbits are so interlaced as to suggest the apprehension of frequent and inevitable collision. The orbit of Fortuna approaches the orbit of Metis within less than the moon’s distance from the earth, while the orbit of Massilia approaches almost equally near to the orbit of Astraea, and the orbit of Lutetia to that of Juno.
It is evident then that these thirty-three small planets sustain to each other a relation different from that of the other members of the solar system. We see a family likeness running through the entire group ; and it naturally suggests the idea of a common origin. ‘This idea, as has been already stated, occurred to the mind of Olbers after the discovery of the second asteroid, and led to his celebrated theory, that all these bodies originally constituted a single planet, which had been broken into fragments by the operation of some internal force. Have we any means of testing the soundness of this theory?
If the earth should be broken into fragments by the operation of some internal force, (such for example as that which causes the eruption of a volcano,) the fragments might be projected in various directions, and with very unequal velocities, but each would describe an ellipse; of which the sun would occupy one of the foci; if we except the extreme but possible case of a fragment projected with such a velocity as to carry it beyond the limit of the sun’s attraction. If we leave out of view the disturbance arising from the mutual attraction of the planets, which produces only minute effects, each fragment would continue to describe the same ellipse in its successive revolutions about the sun; in other words, these ellipses would all have a common point of wmtersection. The same conclusion must hold true for the asteroids, according to the theory of Olbers. The question, of course, arises, have the orbits of the asteroids a common point of intersection? A single glance at a diagram of these orbits will settle this question in the negative. But it is replied that the orbits of the planets are disturbed by their mutual attraction: these orbits should or¢ginally have had a common point of intersection; but at each revolution they suffer a slight displacement, until in the lapse of time the position of the orbits has become so completely changed as to leave scarcely a trace of their original intersection. Is such a result possible? A few simple considerations will satisfy us that if the orbits of the asteroids ever had a ‘common point of intersection, such a result must have belonged to a period of time indefinitely remote.
The line in which the plane of a planet’s orbit intersects some other plane, selected for common reference, is called technically the line of the nodes. If the asteroid orbits ever had a common point of intersection, all the nodal lines upon one of the orbits must have coincided. Now, as two of the asteroid orbits are inclined less than one degree to the earth’s orbit, we will, for greater convenience, employ the latter as the plane of reference. On referring to a table of the planetary elements, we see that the ascending nodes of the asteroids are distributed, though unequally, through the four quadrants of the circle. Ten of them lie in the first quadrant, twelve in the second quadrant, seven in the third, and four in the fourth. The nodes of all the planetary orbits are in constant motion; but the motion for a single

<<<Page: 406>>>

year is extremely small. The annual motion of the node of Mercury is ten seconds; that of Venus is twenty seconds; Mars twenty-five seconds, &c. The most rapid motion found in the nodes of any of the asteroid orbits, as far as the computation has been made, is about fifty seconds a year. If we suppose the nodal lines of all these orbits to move steadily toward each other, it would require, in some of them, a motion of fifty seconds a year, continued for more than six thousand vears, to bring them to a coincidence.
It must also be observed, that not only must the nodes of all the asteroids coincide, but the distance of the planets from the sun must be the same at that instant. Now, the distances of these bodies from the sun, when at their nodes, differ by more than a hundred millions of miles; so that, to bring them all together, requires something more than a change in the position of the nodes. We may bring about a coincidence in the case of some of the asteroids, by supposing the longer diameter of the elliptic orbit to change its position, without disturbing the plane of the orbit. Such a change does really take place in the case of every planetary orbit, but with none of the larger planets does it exceed twenty seconds a year. In the case of one of the asteroid orbits, this motion has been found to amount to seventy seconds a year ; but, even with this motion, it would require the lapse of five thousand years to bring about an intersection in the case of many of the asteroid orbits. When, now, it is remembered that, in order to give a common point of intersection to these thirty-one orbits, all the nodal lines must coincide, and, at the same instant, all the distances from the sun must be equal to each other, we must be prepared to admit that such an occurrence could only have taken place myriads of years ago.
The preceding difficulties, however, are small, in comparison with another which remains to be stated. The orbit of Hygeia completely encloses the orbit of Flora, and, indeed, several other orbits, and would still enclose them, although the greater diameter of each of them were revolved through an entire circumference—since the least distance of Hygeia from the sun exceeds the greatest distance of Flora. The same is true of Themis, as compared with Flora, and several other orbits. The least distance of Hygeia from the sun exceeds the greatest distance of Flora by more than twenty-five millions of miles. In order to render an intersection of these orbits possible, we must suppose a great variation of the eccentricity. But the change of eccentricity of the planetary orbits is exceedingly slow, and the present rate of increase of the eccentricity of Vesta must be continued twenty-seven thousand years, to render the aphelion distance of that planet equal to the perihelion distance of Hygeia. Moreover, the eccentricity of the orbit of Vesta is now creasing, which implies that in past ages the interval between Vesta and Hygeia must have been greater than it is at present; whence the conclusion appears irresistible, that the orbits of Vesta and Hygeia cannot have intersected for several myriads of years. When the secular variations of the elements of each of the asteroids have been computed, astronomers will be able to assign a limit of time, beyond which the intersection of all the asteroid orbits must have occurred, if, indeed, such an intersection ever took place. The discovery of many of these bodies is so recent that, as yet, there has not been sufficient

<<<Page: 407>>>

time for such a computation; but, from what we already know, we hazard little in venturing the opinion, that when this computation shall be made, it will appear that, if the asteroid planets ever composed a single body which exploded, as Olbers supposed, such explosion must have occurred myriads of years ago. Indeed, the discovery of such a host of asteroids seems to have stripped the theory of Olbers of nearly all the plausibility it possessed when it was originally proposed; and it would seem hardly less reasonable te suppose that the earth and Venus originally constituted but one body, than to admit the same for the thirty-three asteroids.
But, if we reject the theory of Olbers, what do we conclude? That the asteroids bear no special relationship to each other? Do they not all clearly indicate a family resemblance? And, if so, how do we account for this relationship ?
There are several reasons for believing in some peculiar relationship between the asteroids.
J. Unlike the other planets of our system, they are all of diminutive size—the largest of them hardly exceeding one or two hundred miles in diameter. M. Leverrier, after a close examination of the nature and amount of the influences exerted by the entire group of asteroids upon the planets Mars and the earth, has arrived at the conclusion that the sum total of the matter constituting the small planets between Mars and Jupiter, including undiscovered as well as known asteroids, cannot exceed about one fourth of the mass of the earth.
2. The asteroids, in their position, occupy a zone entirely distinct from the other planets of the solar system. Between the orbits of Jupiter and Saturn, as well as between Saturn and Uranus, is an immense interval, furnishing space enough for a host of little bodies to circulate around the sun; but in not a solitary instance has any such body been found, except between Mars and Jupiter. Some may attempt to account for this circumstance, by saying that astronomers have long been watching exclusively this portion of space, and have left all other regions entirely unexplored. An exploration conducted upon such a principle is simply a physical impossibility. Ifthere were a small planet between the earth and Mars, it would have stood the same chance of detection, in the explorations of the past ten years, as if it were situated between Mars and Jupiter; and, indeed, it would have stood a better chance of detection, inasmuch as it would appear of greater brightness on account of its proximity to us. If there were a small planet circulating between Jupiter and Saturn, it would have stood the same chance of detection as if it had been placed this side of Jupiter, except that it would appear somewhat fainter on account of its increased distance. The fact that we have discovered thirty-three small planets between Mars and Jupiter, and not a solitary one in any other portion of the solar system, points to something special in this region of the heavens. Ir. other words, we have discovered a limited zone of little planetary bodies, and have not been able to discover a single body of the same class situated out of this zone.
3. The orbits of these little bodies present some special peculiarities.
The ascending nodes of the orbits are not distributed uniformly
through the zodiac. The ascending nodes of twenty-two orbits are

<<<Page: 408>>>

included within the space of 180 degrees; while only eleven are left for the remaining 180 degrees of the zodiac. A similar remark applies to the position of the perihelia. In the first half of the zodiac we find twenty-five perihelia, while only eight remain for the other half of the circumference. We could not have anticipated any such bias in the orbits if they had always been entirely independent of each other.
4, But the most striking peculiarity of these orbits is, that they all lock into one another like the links of a chain, so that if the orbits are supposed to be represented materially as hoops, they all hang together as one system. ‘The orbits of Hygeia and Themis being the largest of all the orbits, completely enclose nearly allof them, and lock into but a small number; while the orbits of Massilia, Astrzea, Pallas, &c.,
lock into nearly all of the orbits, so that if we take hold of the orbit of
Hygeia, which we fancy to be a material hoop, it will support the orbits of Iris, Thalia, Calliope, and two or three others, while these in turn lock into and support all the rest. Indeed, if we seize hold of any orbit at random, it will drag all the other orbits along with it. This feature, by itself, sufficiently distinguishes the asteroid orbits from all the other orbits of the solar system.
If we reject the theory that these asteroids were originally united in one solid body, it seems, nevertheless, difficult to avoid the conclusion that similar causes have operated in determining the orbits of this zone of planets. It is impossible to assign any cause for these resemblances without adopting some theory respecting the origin of the solar system. The theory of gradual condensation, as developed by Laplace in the nebular hypothesis, affords at least a plausible explanation of these phenomena.
, Laplace supposes that the matter composing the bodies of our solar system, originally existed in the condition of an immense nebula, extending beyond the limits of the most distant planet—that this nebulous mass had an exceedingly elevated temperature, and a slow rotation on its axis—that the nebula gradually cooled; and as it contracted in dimensions, its velocity of rotation, according to the principles of mechanics, increased, until the centrifugal force arising from the rotation, became equal to the attraction of the central mass for the exterior zone, when this zone necessarily became detached from the central mass. As the central mass continued to contract in its dimensions, and its velocity of rotation continued to increase, the centrifugal force again became equal to the attraction of the central mass for the exterior zone, and a second zone was detached. Thus a number of zones of nebulous matter were successively detached until, by gradual condensation, the
central mass became of comparatively small dimensions and great |
density.
The zones thus successively detached would form concentric rings |
of vapor, all revolving in the same direction round the sun. If the particles of each ring continued to condense without separating from each other, they would ultimately form a liquid or a solid ring. But generally each ring of vapor would break up into separate masses,
revolving about the sun with velocities slightly different from each | other. These masses would assume a spheroidal form: that is, they k

<<<Page: 409>>>

would form planets in the state of vapor. If one of these masses were large enough to attract each of the others in succession to itself, the ring of vapor would be converted into a single spheroidal mass of vapor, and we should have a single planet of | great mass for each zone of
vapor detached. But if no one of these masses had a preponderz ating size, they would all continue to revolve about the sun in independent orbits, and would form a zone of little planets such as we have actually discovered between Mars and Jupiter.
With regard to the actual number of bodies belonging to this zone of planets, we can do little more than hazard a pl: wusible conjecture. Already we have one asteroid of the sixth magnitude, one of the sev enth, four of the eighth, eighteen of the ninth, and nine of the tenth or eleventh. It would require four hundred bodies as large as the largest of the asteroids, to make a body one fourth of the size of the earth; and, according to Leverrier, the sum of all the asteroids cannot exceed this limit. When we consider the shortness of the period during which stars below the eighth magnitude have been systematically observed, we see room for the discovery of several more planets of the ninth magnitude, and perhaps three or four hundred more of inferior dimensions.
With such a wonderful field of probable discovery imviting the explorations of astronomers, may we not hope that the enterprize of America will claim its share of the labor of this research? ‘The rapid progress which the last few years have witnessed in our country, both in the fatilities for observation, and in the number of active observers, is one of the most encouraging signs of the times. It is scarcely a quarter of a century since the first telescope, exceeding those of a portable size, was imported into the United States ; and the introduction of meridional instruments of the large class is of still more recent date. Now we have one telescope which acknowledges no superi or; and we have several which would be esteemed worthy of a place in the finest observatories of Europe. We have also numerous meridional instruments of dimensions adequate to be employed in original research. These instruments have not been permitted to remain unemployed. At the Observatory in this city, and also at Cambridge, extensive catalogues of stars are now in progress; while nearly every known member of our solar system has been repeatedly and caretully observed. These observations are all permanently recorded by a simple touch of the finger upon a key which closes an electric circuit—a method recently | introduced at Greenwich Observatory, and known everywhere throughout Europe by the distinctive name of the American method.
Numerous, important, and striking discoveries have been the result of this astronomical activity. A host of comets have been independently discovered on this side of the Atlantic; and among them three, at least, were observed here before they were seen in Europe. The two nebulz which have been longest and best known, and which have attracted the wondering gaze of every astronomer since the invention of the telescope, were never adequately figured until an use eye saw them, and an American pencil depicted them. The planet Saturn, which, for many years, was made the subject of special study by the elder Ie rceke with his wonderful means of observation, first
Mis. Doc. 24——10

<<<Page: 410>>>

revealed to American scrutiny a new ring, and an eighth satellite. The novel spectacle of a comet divided into two nearly equal portions was first witnessed by American eyes; and an American observer has added one to the long list of planetary discoveries.
It is gratifying to reflect that while the great powers of Europe are contending in mortal strife, and misery marks the progress of their arms, the astronomers of England are allies not only to the astronomers of France, but to those of America, of Germany, and of Russia also. The triumphs of science are bloodless and do not endanger the peace of nations. Let the New World contend with the Old in a generous emulation—not for the conquest of disputed principalities or fortified cities—but for a holier and a nobler conquest—the conquest of the skies.

<<<Page: 411>>>

There are few positions more imposing than to stand at the capital of a country like our own, made up of confederated States, each State
made up of confederated counties, each county perhaps made up of confederated townships; every part, from the least to the greatest, conspiring to form an organized whole—one nation, one people. From such a centre it is natural to look abroad over the fair land, at territories and commonwealths, at cities and hamlets, whose interests and national life are thus interwoven into one, and to ask what are the laws and what the means of organization by which civilization attains these her great ends? It is natural, from such a point of view, to inquire into the general laws of relation by which parts are intelligently bound together to form a composite whole for some end of use or beaity, that is, the laws of relation by which every organization, every mechanism, in the high sense of that word, is formed. ‘The material universe, with its majestic movements of suns, stars, planets, light, heat, winds, tides, seasons, is such a mechanism, actuated ever by the infinite Power, shaped and guided by the infinite Wisdom, animated by the infinite Love. The power which went torth at creation established the universe, with all its beauty and capacity, by the intelligent combination of outward parts. By the marriage of elementary atoms, by the joining of lesser unities to form greater, in accordance with a principle of absolute order and harmony, nature took her perfect form. With this type of creation ever before us, the
manifestation of God in his works, let not the word mechanism, if it effects only the humblest organization of material elements, appear to us low or unworthy. Whoever, in practical science, attains a result of human use, by the intelligent combination of outward parts, emulates, in his degree, the creatine wisdom, which, in the language of an apocryphal writer, hath made all things by number, measure, aay) weight.
In the organization of states and municipalities, the object or end in view, the formative principle, is some ideal of human lite and society, some thought or ¢ aspiration for freedom, justice, brotherhood ; but the embodiment of these is an outward frame-work of Se eilimation, the highest mechanism to which human thought and human hands have ever been applied, requiring the perfect relation of parts, and methods of communication and intercourse arranged and governed by an absolute law of order. It is here that Science Becomes the great instrument of Civilization.
In the early history of this country, the thirteen colonies stretched along the sea-coast, and commerce joined their interests and established a common circulation between them. 'The sailing vessel—the clipperschooner—then measured the possible rate of intercourse and capacity

<<<Page: 412>>>

of co-operation between those States. A languid life existed; a weak Confederacy in the outset was formed, proportioned to their outward means of communication and organization. A few centuries earlier than this, before navigation and other arts of locomotion had made much progress, each settlement on the coast would have been the centre of a small jurisdiction, with still less power of co-operation or union With its neighbors; science would have slept; events would have been slow ; the human mind, for the most part, stagnant; civilization in abeyance; man isolated in industry and social sympathy from his fellow man.
At the time of the formation of the American Constitution our fathers looked with anxiety at what seemed to them an immense territory, though now but a small fraction of this republic, and asked if veins and arteries could ever ramify through this body politic, and interfuse the whole system with a common life-blood. “T'o increase the difficulty and danger, new territory was added, new States in the interior of the country came in; but, at the same time, the genius of civilization and the providence of God gave to us the realization of the dream of the poet in the invention of the steamboat. A new means of relating men to each other, of combining their industry, of introducing the era of peace and good will upon earth, was discovered. Wherever the great rivers penetrated the heart of the continent, there quick communication could be had with the centres of government, industry, and commerce throughout the land.
A few years later, and our population, v with the instinct 6f freedom, spread still further over the prairies and into the wilderness. The nation was again outgrowing its means of intercommunication and common life, when the railroad and steam-car were invented, and again the continuance of the commonwealth became possible ; the confederated republic had a new lease of life by virtue of the application of science to civilization.
Still later our empire spread to the Pacific and stretched three thou-
sand miles across the American continent. Different oceans washed its two shores. Our faces on the Atlantic coast were turned eastward,
our brothers on the Pacific looked westward, and the Rocky mountains rose between. By steamboat or railroad, weeks must now intervene in the communication between distant parts of this mighty organization of confederated municipalities and States. The veins and atfenics were provided, but the living nation had yet no nervous system to flash communication from one part to another, and to combine the whole into an organized body, which might, in its capacity for future expansion, facile the whole race, and inhabit the whole earth. Before this time of need had fully arrived, the electric telegraph received its most important development, and was introduced into America.
The electric telegraph is thus the nervous system of this nation and of modern society, by no figure of speech, by no distant analogy. Its wires spread like nerves over the surface of the land, interlinking distant parts, and making possible a perpetually higher co-operation
among men, and higher social forms than have hitherto existed. By means of its life-like functions the social body becomes a living whole, and each of its new applications marks a step in the organization of hu-
man life.
| i |
| ( | | |

<<<Page: 413>>>

We are thus conducted to the result of the highest philosophy : that society, in its form of organization, is human, and that it presents in its progressive development continually higher analogies with the laws of individual being. In passing from these general principles to scientific detail, in the illustration of the municipal fire-telegraph, we shall find some of these analogies presenting themselves in still more definite and striking forms, thereby setting their seal of confirmation on the natural arr angement of the system of telegraphic organization, which is the special subject of the lecture this evening. .
Soon after the first introduction of the electric telegraph into this country, I conceived the idea of the municipal telegraph, as distinguished from the common form of telegraph connecting distant places. The telegraph, as you know, usually consists of a galvanic battery or generator of electricity in one city or town, and insulated wires or electrical conductors going out thence and proceeding to a register or telegraphic instrument in another city or town, which instrument indicates every electrical wave or impulse that is sent over the wires from the distant extremity of the line. This requires that there shall always be what is called a “circuit” of electrical conductors—that is, that the electric current shall have the opportunity of going out from one pole of the battery, through one conductor to the distant register, and returning through another conductor to the other pole of the battery. When this 6c ea is completed, an electrical wave or current immediately begins to pass through the conductors, though they may be hundreds of miles in léngth; and when the ‘‘circuit” Re broken anywhere, it ceases to pass. All telegraphic signalizing is thus effected by alternately completing and breaking the circuit at suitable intervals.
The municipal telegraph, while it employs the same essential conditions, adopts a very different arrangement. Its function is not to connect distant towns or independent centres of Jife and activity with each other, but it is to organize a single city or town so as to bring every subordinate part into relation with its centre of government and direction. Its purpose is to multiply pomts of communication, to cover the surface of the municipal body as thickly, if you please, with telegraphic signalizing points as the surface of the human body is covered with nervous extremities or papillze, the whole being intelligently connected into a system by which the municipal body s shall understand itself in every part, and shall have a common life and vital functions for its own essential purposes.
The coramon telegraph is linear—it is a “line” of telegraph. The municipal telegraph is the application of the telegraph. to a surface, making it cover a space with telegraphic nerves and papilla as thickly as required, to furnish a complete organization. The common telegraph connects distant points, as its very name implies, the more distant the better to illustrate its Shaler The municipal telegraph contemplates the linking together of a multitude of near points, the nearer the better to illustrate the peculiarity of the system. ‘The common telegraph connects two independent centres of life and activity. "The municip yal telegraph connects a multitude of Piio caine te points with one centre, and makes the position of those points dependent upon the centre and the needs of the system.

<<<Page: 414>>>

The occurrence of a fire in a city is one of the exigencies in which rapid and intelligent co-operation is necessary between the members of the municipal body. As our warehouses, manutactories, and public buildings are constructed, the extent of a conflagration depends to a great extent upon whether it is reached by the fire department within a short time or not. The first ten minutes in directing the alarm is worth hours afterwards. In organizing a system of fire alarms it becomes, therefore, necessary that every locality in a city shall have the means in its immediate neighborhood of notifying the existence ofa fire. In order that this may be done systematically and under organic direction, it is necessary that this notification should be sent, in the first instance, to a common centre, which will naturally be at the city hall; and it is further necessary that the means should exist of giving thence an instantancous, definite, and public alarm of fire.
The first requisite for a fire telegraph is certainly in its means of communication. What, then, are the safeguards of the municipal teleeraph by which its indications may be made always reliable, and b which interruption, by accident or design, may be rendered improbable or impossible? These are the use of strong well-insulated wires, carried over the houses and attached to lofty and well selected buildings ; the use of duplicate wires, following different routes, between all the stations, so that if one wire is broken from any cause, another and distant wire may still continue the circuit; and the dispensing entirely with the use of the ground as any part of the circuit, as used in common telegraph lines. Instead, also, of using, in a municipal telegraph, one great circuit which should traverse a whole city, a number of lesser circuits may be used, radiating from the centre, like the petals of a flower; so that if one circuit should be interrupted, all the others would still be intact and operative. These safeguards prove sufficient in practice to make the municipal telegraph the most certain means of communication which has yet been devised, under all conditions of weather and season.
In June, 1845, nearly ten years ago, I first published a notice of the fire-alarm telegraph, involving, essentially, the principles and _ safeguards upon which it has since been constructed. No definite action was taken upon it until 1848, when the subject was brought before the city government of Boston by the mayor, and two machines for striking the city bells from a distance, by means of the telegraph, were constructed under direction of Moses G. Farmer, esq., one of the ablest and most ingenious telegraphic engineers in the country.* One of these machines was placed in the belfry of the Boston city hall and connected with the line of telegraph extending to New York. Under these circumstances the operator in New York, by tapping on his fingerkey, struck the bell on the city hall a number of times, and, according to the newspapers of that day, thus originated a false alarm of fire in Boston. This was the first illustration of the capacities of the firealarm telegraph.
The matter slept, however, till 1851, when I brought the system
* These original machines were exhibited, with other apparatus, in delivering this lecture ; but for the sake of connexion, reference to the experimental illustrations will be excluded from this written report.

<<<Page: 415>>>

formally, and with specific plans, before the city government of Boston, and urged their action as due to science and to the public interest. This city government, unlike many others, induced only by the statement of scientific truth, voted ten thousand dollars to test a system wholly untried, and without precedent in the world. The mechanism and construction were placed in the hands of Moses G. Farmer, esq., and in 1852 were brought by him into thorough and successtul operation. The American fire-alarm telegraph, in its development as a practical system of organization, tested now for nearly three years, should thus always be ascribed to Mr. Farmer equally with myself.
It has been stated that the conditions of the fire-alarm telegraph require that information should, in the first place, come in from any part of the circumference or surface of a city to its centre, and that thence an alarm should go out in a definite form to the public. The organization of a city under the system is as follows:
From the central station, at the city hall, go out wires over the house-tops, visiting every part of the city, and returning again. These are the signal circuits, by which the existence of a fire is signalized from any part of the surface of the city to the centre. Strung on these circuits, or connected with them, are numerous signal boxes, or signalizing points, of which there may be one at the corner of every square. These are cast-iron, cottage-shaped boxes, attached to the sides of the houses, communicating, by means of wires enclosed in a wrought-iron gas-pipe, with the signal circuit overhead. On the door of each signalbox the number of the fire district, and also the number of the box or station itself, in its district, are marked, and the place in the neighborhood where the key-holder may be found is also prominently notified. On opening the door of the signal-box a crank is seen. When this is turned it communicates to the centre the number of the fire district and of the box, and nothing else. Repeated turns give a repetition of the same signal. By this means any child or ignorant person who can tarn a coffee-mill can signalize an alarm from his own neighborhood with unerring certainty.
Connected with the signal circuits at the central office, where they all converge, are a little alarm-bell and a register, which notifies and records the alarm received from the signal-box. The galvanic battery which supplies all the signal circuits is also placed at the central station. Ifa fire occurs near signal-box or station 5, in district 3, and the crank of that box is turned, the watchman or operator at the central station will immediately be notified by the little bell, and will read at once on his register the telegraphic characters which signify district 3, station 5. The characters used in the fire telegraph are a group of dots to indicate the district number—as three dots for district 3, and a group of dots and lines to indicate, by arbitrary characters, the station number. ‘Thus a line and two dots may indicate station 5. These alternate on the record, and are repeated as often as the crank is turned.
The register used at the central station is generally the Morse register; which I recommend, in connexion with the system, as being most in harmony with its principle of operation.
We have traced the alarm of fire from a signal-box into the central

<<<Page: 416>>>

lon NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
station. How shall the'alarm be given from that centre to the public? From the central station proceed alsa several circuits of wires, called alarm circuits, Which go to the various fire-bells throughout the city, and which are connected with striking machines similar in character to the striking machinery of a clock, “but Liberated be y telegraph. The operator at the central station is enabled, by the mere touch of his finger upon a key, to throw all the striking machines into simultaneous action, and thus give instantaneous public alarm.
By what precise mechanism is this effected at the alarm-bell stations? The heavy hammers may be raised above the bells by any force which can be conveniently applied, as bya weight which may be wound up by hand. But in all cities where the water is confined under pressure in the mains, it will supply, by means of the eccentric water engine, known familiarly under the name of the ‘‘ water meter,” the power necessary to wield the heavy hammers with the greatest facility. But how are hammers of one or two hundred pounds weight to be tripped by telegraph? ‘To effect this readily Mr. Farmer invented his electro-magnetic escapement, one of the most beautiful and original of recent mechanical applications. In this escapement the clectro-magnet, when it becomes charged by the galvanic influence received fons the central station, attracts the little piece of soft iron or armature in front of it, which supports a small lever poised nearly vertically, and weighted with a little ball at its upper end. This lever and ball, when tripped by the withdrawal of the armature, acquires sufficient momentuin to strike up the detent of the train of wheels which, in their revolution, raise the hammer and then allow it to fall. A single blow of the hammer follows each electrical. impulse sent from the central station, and the revolution of the train of wheels raises also the falling lever into its place and catches it again on the armature lever, ready to be disengaged or tripped for another blow.
At the central station, connected with the alarm circuit, is a galvanic battery and an instrument for completing the circuit of that battery,
called the district keyboard. This is constructed with several keys, corresponding to the numbers of the fire districts in the city. If you depress any of these the machinery inside commences to move, and the circuit is completed at such intervals as to strike and repeat on the distant alarm bells the district number represented by that key with suitable pauses between.
We as that the operator at the central station received the signal of fire from district 3, station 5. He now places his finger on the key of district 6, in the keyboard. Instantly all the alarm bells in the city begin to strike synchronously the district number three, and continue, no matter what their number or what the weight of their hammers, so long as that single finger rests on that key.
But the operator has a finger key before him connected with the
signal circuits, by which he can answer back and strike a little electromagnet, armature, and. bell, enclosed in each signal box. He has received a signal of fire from district 3, station 5. While his hand rests on the key of district 3 he taps occasionally five times on the return key of the signal circuits, which I have just described. The little bell in each signal box, at the corner of every square, strikes five. ‘The fire-

<<<Page: 417>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. lea
man listens to the public alarm bells and gets from them the number of the district; he runs by the nearest signal box and listens a moment to gather the station number from its little signal bell, and he now knows that the fire is at district three, station five. He directs his own motions and his engine, from the start, to within, perhaps, one hundred yards of the fire.
No other system has ever attempted to localize a fire more precisely than by the district number ; and in some cities, like New York, the districts may be two miles long.
In all previous systems there has been a delay, first in getting an alarm from the fire to the bells, and, second, in finding the place of the fire in the district after the alarm was given, and reaching it by the shortest route. By the fire telegraph both district and station are publicly notified; the one by the alarm bells, the other by the signal baxes.
Let us now consider for a moment the analogy between the municipal organization thus described and the nervous organization of the individual. A coal of fire falls upon my hand; one of the nervous extremities, or papillee, the ‘signal box” of the part, sends instantly its own special signal, by means of a nerve of sensation or signal wire to the brain, where the existence and locality of the lesion is at once recognized. An act of intelligence and volition ensues. The watchman af the central station, or brain, does his part. An impulse to motion is sent out over the proper motor nerves, or alarm wires, and muscles are called into play in a suitable manner to remove the cause of injury, justas the electro-magnetic muscles and iron limbs in the bell towers are thrown into suitable and related action to the original cause and place of alarm.
The telegraph, in its common form, communicating intelligence between distant places, performs the function of the sensitive nerves of the human body. In-the fire telegraph it is made to act for the first time in its motor function, or to produce effects of power at a distance; and this is also connected with the sensitive function, through a brain or central station, which is the reservoir of electric or nervous power for the whole system. We have thus an ‘“excito-motory” system, in which the intelligence and volition of the operator at the central station come in to connect sensitive and motor functions, as they would in the vase of the individual. f
The conditions of municipal organization absolutely compelled the relation of circuits which has been described. The analogy with the laws of individual life was not perceived until after the system was evolved, and it came then as a confirmation of the correspondence of the system to natural law, and of the necessity of the arrangement as a means of order.
I should not be precluded from saying in this place, what historic truth at this time requires, that the development of the “ motor function” of electricity, or of the means by which electro-magnetic power can be exerted at a distance, is due to the early experiments of the Secretary of this Institution, Professor Henry, whose discoveries in electro-magnetism and especially of the quantity and intensity of the magnet in 1830, laid the foundation for all subsequent forms of the electro-magnetic telegraph, and made subsequent steps comparatively

<<<Page: 418>>>

easy. In the publication of these experiments, the induction of the electric telegraph as thenceforth possible was distinctly made by him ; and ata period not much, later, weights were released and bells rung by him at a distance by electric influence transmitted through long conductors.
In Boston, where the fire-alarm telegraph has been in successful operation for nearly three years, a star of wires is seen radiating from the top of the city building. These are the signal circuits connecting into one system forty-six signal boxes scattered over the city, and the alarm circuits connecting twenty-four belfries on church, school and engine houses. <A few large bells would be preferable to this multiplicity of smaller ones, but this whole number are struck by the touch of a single man’s finger in the central station. For the sake of economy in battery sal a the district keyboard is so arranged as to throw the battery on the four alarm circuits separately, but in rapid succession at each blow. Practically, the bells strike together or as much so as is desirable. At night, sometimes out of the profoundest stillness, the district number will suddenly strike upon the ear in a chime of perhaps eight or ten bells, their sound coming in one after the other in proportion to their distance from the ear, but always in an invariable succession at each blow. Then the alarm ceases and the whole city is as suddenly silent.
The operator at the central station is sometimes able to throw the bells on, and tap back to the signal boxes before the originator of the alarm has ceased to turn his crank in the immediate neighborhood of the fire. As soon as the bells strike, groups of persons will be seen clustering round each signal box to listen to the tapping of the station number, and it is soon known to the whole fire department exactly where the alarm originated.
The battery employed on the Boston signal circuits is Farmer’s protected Grove’s battery, which keeps in action several weeks or even months without being replenished. Instead of a galvanic battery on the alarm circuits, a large magneto-electric machine has been recently substituted, which is driven by a water meter, and which furnishes the electric current by which the bells are rung.
The heaviest hammer in the system at Boston weighs one hundred pounds, and it is wielded by the Cochituate water at an expense of only one gallon for each blow, and tripped by telegraph from a distance of two miles. By virtue of the electric current and the pent up water, this bell, and others associated with it, might be rung in measured strokes from the beginning to the end of the year by the pressure of a single man’s finger in a distant room.
All of the stations in Boston aré provided with “lightning catchers” or ground conductors for atmospheric or induced electricity. Hence an incidental protection from lightning commensurate with the extent of the network of wires above is obtained for the city. When these ground conductors have been temporarily removed from the alarm-bell stations, a flash of lightning has been occasionally followed by a single blow from one or more of the bells. But where the lightning catchers have been in place, they have proved sufficient, except in rare instances, to divert atmospheric or induced currents from the electro-magnets to the ground. No practical or serious inconvenience has resulted

<<<Page: 419>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. B u55)
from this source. But it has occasionally been a matter of curiosity and interest to hear the lightning thus tolling the alarm bell.
The total loss by fire under the telegraph fire-alarm system, according to the accurate ‘“‘ Report of the Boston Fire Department for the year 1854,” was only $150,772, or less than one dollar for every inhabitant ; a loss which, for its small amount in so compact and wealthy a city, cannot be paralleled in America.
Out of 195 alarms of fire in Boston in 1854, twelve are recorded as false; but at least sez of these were from supposed fires, leaving only six unaccounted for. The whole number of alarms and the proportion of false alarms have been greatly diminished by the system. Science can make no contribution to civilization without the requisite social conditions. ‘The trust of the fire telegraph system, in this case was placed in the hands of the citizens, and it has yielded to them its full fruits without abuse. This may deserve perhaps to be chronicled as an instance of well rewarded confidence in the sobriety and capacity for self-government of the American people. The signal box, which is the sensitive extremity of the system, may be-protected by various methods according to social requirements. In Boston it has been guarded by putting it in the most public place and exposing it to the fullest light.
The fire-alarm telegraph contains alsothe elements of a perfect police system. In addition to the crank for alarm, every signal box is provided with afinger key, by means of which communications in the ordinary telegraphic method can be sent to the central station, and an answer can be returned from the centre and read by sound from the little bell in the signal box.
The mechanism of the fire telegyaph is arranged and disposed for the purpose of preserving wealth, the fruit of human industry and of nature’s bounty, from destruction. It therefore accomplishes an end of human use. But more than this, it is a higher system of municipal organization than any which has heretofore been proposed or adopted. In it the New World has taken a step in the forms of civilization in advance of the Old.

<<<Page: 420>>>

[The publication of these lectures will awaken in the sympathizing hearts of many of their readers a painful reminiscence of the loss in the Arctic of their amiable and gilted author. |
T Hey Nor Orn:
The subject upon which I propose to address you is the growth of the American Union during the colonial era of our history. In treating such a subject, at the present time, it is my desire to say, in the first place, that I shall purposely forbear speaking of the Union as it now exists, with its manifold and countless blessings, its present estate, and its prospects. It is the retrospect which I intend to turn to, and in that retrospect there is abundance both of admonition and encouragement for all after time, much to inspire a thoughtful loyalty to the Union, and a deep sense of responsibility for each generation coming to live within that Union, and to transmit it unimpaired to poster ity, such as it has grown to be, not by man’s will or sagacity, but by the providential government of the world, which may be traced in the history of our race.
In speaking of history as making manifest such providential government of the world, I do but recognise and follow one of the highest principles which we owe to the improved culture of historical science in the present century. That improvement is not alone in more laborious and dutiful habits of research, in the more studious use of original documents, but in a truer philosophy of history, not such as ina former age, arrogating the title of philosophy, contracted its vision within the scant range ‘of scepticism, but a philosophy which reverently traces on the annals of the human race marks of more than human agency—an overruling Providence. As in that which is especially denominated ‘“ sucred history”’ the purposes of the Creator are expres sly reve ealed, so in that which is styled, in contradistinetion, ‘ profane history,” as purposes of the same Creator must needs exist, the thoughtfal student may gain at least some glimpses of them, and yet refrain all the while from rash interpretation of the Divine will in the guidance and government of man and of the races of man to whom the earth is parcelled out.
It becomes more practicable to trace the providential purposes when we look over long tracts of time. The history of Rome, for instance, with its twelve centuries of growth, and decay, and ruin—in one point of view, what is it but a purposeless record of strife, external and internal—conquest and the domestic feud of patrician and plebian—

<<<Page: 421>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. oy
and ended, at last, like an unsubstantial pageant, leaving no influence behind it ; but, in another point of view, it becomes a more intelligible memorial of the life of a nation that had a destiny to fulfil, an appointed work to do—to build up a system of law which should enter mto modern European and American jurisprudence, and with its strong Pagan power to pave a path for Christianity to travel into the vast regions which at one time were included within Roman dominion.
Now, turning to American history, and especially that portion of it which is devoted to the Union, it is possibie, I believe, to place the events in such combinations, to discover in them such a concurrent tendency, as to leave no room to question that those events were controlled as the secondary causes of the results to which form was given in our system of government. From the latter part of the last century—from the year of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States of America, with its primary purpose of forming a more perfect union, back into the century of English colonization, back still earlier to the years of discovery, and even earlier yet to those remote centuries in which, many generations before Columbus or Cabot, European eyes, we may believe, beheld this continent for the first tume—throughout that long tract of time there is, I do not fear to say, a tendency more or less visible towards the future results, and not least among those results towards this Union. That tendency may be traced both in what was frustrated and in what has been achieved; so that all things seem to lead to this result, the predominance in North America of one European race, and that race the race which speaks the English tongue. I thus entitle it for the want of a better and briefer name. The title ‘¢ Anglo-Saxon’ is hardly adequate or expressive enough for a breed of men in whose veins there runs the mingled current of Saxon and Norman blood, perhaps of ancient British, Celtic, Roman, and Danish blood. From the earliest time in which intercourse began between the eastern and western hemispheres down to our own day, the great movement has been the extension of what may be called Saxondom—a part of that larger movement, not confined te N@rth America, but extending to southern Africa, to India from Ceylon to its northern mountains, and to Australia and the islands in the distant seas—the movement which is carrying the language and the laws of our race widely over the earth.
My present purpose is to look at this movement as it has a connexion with American history, and especially with the Union; and, without attempting in any way to make historical facts bend to hypothesis, to show that the history of discovery, the history of colonization and of colonial government, all establish this historical truth, that the work of laying the foundation of a great political system in North America was reserved for the race that speaks the English language, by whatever name we may choose to call that race; further, that, in order to develop so essential a part of that system as the union of a federal republic, the work was reserved for the English race at a particular period of their history in the mother country. Thus it is to remote causes that we are to trace that political power which animates a government extending from the lakes to the Gulf of Mexico, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific.

<<<Page: 422>>>

It seems to me that there is no consideration better calculated to deepen in the mind of every reflecting citizen a reverence for the Union than a just sense of its origin; and that is to be acquired by the studious asking and answering of “ahis question, How was this Union formed? Has the origin of the Union a date—a day or a year? Can we find its
epoch—as of independence, or of the confederation, or of the Constitution? Was it done in convention? Did men come together by some delegated authority and deliberate in solemn council, and ordain a Union? Never. It was the work of time, the natural consequence of events, a growth from circumstances, or whatever other phrase may be used as a substitute for an express acknowledgment of a Providence in the destinies of mankind. — It is not possible to trace the Union to any premeditated plan, the idea of any one man, or the concert of any body of men. You can find no authority to pronounce it the direct product of human foresight, of political wisdom and experience. You cannot point to any day i in our history, and say that on such a day Union existed, and on the day before there was nothing of the kind. In truth the Union was r10t made, 2 grew. It grew as the tree grows, planting its roots deeper and deeper, and lifting its branches stronger. and stronger and higher and higher, its vital forces coursing upwar rd and outward to its lightest leaf. ‘The Union grew as the forest grows, and the seed was not sown by man’s hand. This element of government is at the same time an element of national character. It is part of the life of Saxon liberty, and it came with the Saxon race to be developed and expanded ina land which seems to have been reserved to be the Saxon’s heritage.
Whatever may have been accomplished when European enterprise began its work on this continent with those long unknown or forgotten discoveries of the Scandinavian navigators, who, 500 years before Columbus, were the first to behold these western shores, those obscure voyages left no abiding influence here. The Northman had no distinct destiny here; and idle as it would be now to speculate on such a future as there might have been if Scandinavian discovery had been followed by conquest and seftlenent, one cannot help thinking how fruitless would have been the strife between the savage native races and the fierce uncivilized barbarians of the northern seas. This land was not meant for the Northman’s home. The voyages of the eleventh and twelfth centuries passed away, leaving no trace behind them, and, what was more important, leaving the land open to the enterprise of other and distant generations who had a destiny here.
When, in the fifteenth century, the south of Europe was stirred by the spirit of maritime adventure, and Portugal took the lead in it, the enterprise of that kingdom found a southern and not a western direction, in the voyages along the western coast of Africa, planned by that remarkable personage, Prince Henry (a Plantagenet by the mother’s side, let me say in passing.) This land was not given to the race of Portugal first, though they were among modern discoverers.
When Spain slowly followed the career of which the neighboringkingdom had set the example, and when Columbus had nearly crossed the Atlantic, steering due westward to the continent of North America, then only a few days’ sail distant, a flight of birds, as is familiarly remembered from the well known story, were seen winging their way

<<<Page: 423>>>

across the course of the vessels, and the great navigator following those pilots of the air southwestward, lost the continent, and the power of Spain was planted only on the islands. As a flight of birds gave, according to the legend, augury for the first doings of Rome’s history, so in another way it has a place in our earliest annals. Again, on his second voyage, the path of Columbus lay among the islands; and when the papal power was invoked to determine the disputes between Spain and Portugal, respecting their rights of discovery, and Alexander V1 adjudged his famous partition, which seems to appropriate to these two contending powers all that was discovered, and all that was to be discovered in the new world—soon after this exercise of power, (more than human by one less than human in the crimes that have made the name of Borgia infamous,) soon after, the sovereign of a country which held slacker allegiance to Rome, gave the commission to the Cabots, and that authority, which has been well styled “the oldest American State paper,” set the Saxon foot upon this soil, the first of Kuropean feet to touch the continent. The land was not meant, either by claim of discovery or by papal gift, to be the Spaniards’ home. ‘The two small English vessels which had cleared from Bristol, ‘ with authority to sail to all parts of the east, west, and north, under the royal banners and ensigns, to discover countries of the heathen, unknown to Christians, to set up the king’s banner there, to occupy and possess, as his subjects, such places as they could subdue, with rule and jurisdiction,” coasting along perhaps some thirty degrees of latitude, from Labrador to Virginia, gave to an English race their title here. Thus early, within a very few years after the beginning of western discovery in the fifteenth century, was laid the foundation of future dominion; for whatever other European races might thereafter seek a home on this portion of the continent, it would be only for such partial or temporary occupation as would sooner or later be absorbed in the occupations by that race which was then, in that era, the first to touch the mainland. It was thus that the way was prepared to make the country the heritage of that race which speaks the English tongue, a race in whose institutions the name of PEOPLE was never lost, whether in their furthest antiquity in the forests of Germany, or under Saxon, Danish, or Norman rule, after their migration to Britain, whether under the kingly confederacy of the Saxon, or under the power of the strongest Norman sovereigns, Plantagenet or Tudor; so that, with the popular element ever present, every political struggle has been either to regain something lost, or to expand and improve some ancient right.
In studying the originating influences of our institutions, political and judicial, there can be no question, I believe, but that the first influence is to be sought in the character of the race. Powers and habits of thought and feeling come to us with our blood, and extend to all who come within the range of their influence. We have but expanded what the Saxon began more than a thousand years ago, before, indeed, the races of the north had a history of their own or a place in the history of the more civilized south. The influence of race is most obvious when we think of the inheritance of the common law, or such a special tradition, from unknown origin, as the trial by jury. My present purpose is to trace the agency of the same principle, I mean the influence

<<<Page: 424>>>

of race, where it is less apparent, in that part of our political system which is expressed by the term ‘the Union,” and then to follow it onward through the processes of colonization and the course of colonial government. .
The question to be considered is, what element was there in the Anglo-Saxon character and institutions, which, being transplanted to this country, and being left to freer and more unrestrained action, would facilitate the formation of a federal government, of a Union? Such an element is to be found in the tendency to local self-government, which is characteristic of the race, and is conspicuous in the history of their institutions. This is a tendency the very reverse of that which is described by such terms as “centralization”? or **consolidation.’? Saxon freedom has, no doubt, been held chiefly on the tenure of this principle, that the central power of the State has always recognised a great variety of local powers. Even with regard to metropolitan influences, how obvious is it that London has never been to England what Paris has been and is to France, whether royal, imperial, or republican France. It has been justly said that ‘centralization and active life pervading the whole body are hard to reconcile ; he who should do this perfectly would have established a perfect government. * Spang l t
seems to be a law that life cannot long go on in a multitude of ©
minute parts without union; nay, even without something of that very centralization which yet, if not well watched, is so apt to destroy the parts by absorbing their life into its own; there must be a heart in the political as m the natural body to supply the extremities continually with fresh blood.”’—( Arnold. )
Now, throughout the whole history of our race—the race that speaks the English tongue here and in England, during the three score years of our Constitution, during the brief existence of the confederation, during the contentional colonial period between 1763 and 1776, and during the earlier colonial times, or, in the mother-country, during the various eras of the history of the race there—it has been the combination of these two principles—the principle of centralization and the principle of local independence—that has distinguished the ,race, that has made its power, its safety, and its freedom. Political strength and health have been in the just distribution and harmony of these powers, having an archetype, it may be said, in the tranquil and perpetual harmony of the solar system—the noiseless on-goings of the stars. In the political system of the Saxon—royal or republican—the danger bas ever been in any excess of either the centripetal force on the one hand, or the centrifugal on the other. Whatever variations there may have been from time to time, this may, I believe, safely be pronounced the great Saxon characteristic—a habit of local government, exercised in a certain subordination, or rather relation, to a central government. And further, it would not be difficult to discover in such distribution of power in local institutions much of the discipline, the training for more expanded opportunities of government, which has helped onward what appears to be the destiny of the race. Observe how, after the Saxon occupation of Britain, the conquered territory, small comparatively in extent, was divided into several petty kingdoms— those loosely compacted kingly commonwealths which were to form

<<<Page: 425>>>

the heptarchy; and again, how each of these was parcelled out into
those various divisions, the counties, shires, hundreds, uthings, and
other partitions, the origin of which perplex the antiquarian. The old
Saxon spirit of local independence and authority animated the local
institutions, assemblies, tribunals of various kinds, with an energy that
never could have been developed under a strongly controlling central ower.
When the Norman conqueror sought to complete the subjugation of England, by introducing the laws and institutions of his own country, and a rigorous establishment of the feudal system, all this Saxon variety of law, of usage, of manners, and of men, was a perpetual hindrance, which it was part of the conquest to do away with. The conqueror’s strong hand was laid on the free diversities which the Saxon had been used to of old, for conquest, dominion, empire, demanded more of a submissive uniformity ; and accordingly, as an instance of it, we find the conqueror introducing, for the administration of justice, an office unknown to the Saxon—the office of chief justiciar. The biographer of the English Chief Justices remarks, in the opening sentence of his work :
‘The office of Chief Justice, or Chief Justiciar, was introduced into England by William the Conqueror, from Normandy, where it had long existed. The functions of such an officer would have ill accorded with the notions of our Anglo-Saxon ancestors, who had a great antipathy to centralization, and prided themselves upon enjoying the rights and the advantages of self-government.
% * * ‘In Normandy, the interference of the supreme government was much more active than in England; and there existed an officer called Cuter Justiciar, who superintended the administration of justice over the whole dukedom, and on whom, according to the manners of the age, both military and civil powers of great magnitude were conferred.”’ Lord Campbell adds in a note: ‘“ It is curious to observe that, notwithstanding the sweeping change of laws and institutions introduced at the conquest, the characteristic difference between Frenchmen and Englishmen, in the management of local affairs, still exists after the lapse of so many centuries; and that, while with us parish vestries, town councils, and county sessions are the organs of the petty confederated republics into which England is parBelied out, in France, whether the form of government be nominally monarchical or republican, no one can alter the direction of a road, build a bridge, or open a mine, without the authority of the ‘ Ministre des Ponts et Chaussées.’ In Ireland, there being much more Celtic than Anglo-Saxon blood, no self-reliance is felt, and a disposition prevails to throw everything upon the government.”
This Saxon characteristic is to be discovered not only in the number but also in the diversity of local institutions, arising from diversity of character and traditional influences. Although in the course of time— many centuries—such diversities have been smoothed down by many assimilating processes, perhaps no country on the face of the earth, within so narrow a space, presents so great variety of customs as England continues to do. Habits, manners, the tenure of land, rules of inheritance, display a = a iety strongly contrasted with ape servile
Mis. Doc. 24

<<<Page: 426>>>

uniformity of governments with stronger controlling central powers. Usages which appertain to the North Briton are unknown to the South Briton—the man of Kent, or Cornwall, or Wales. The cities and towns have a variety of municipal power and privilege resting on the authority of immemorial usage.
The origin of all this diversity, in which there has been developed so much of practical power, is to be traced to the same cause which has transmitted it to America—the mode in which the land was occupied by the successive races who came to its shores. The Roman conquerors and colonists, the continued migrations of the Saxons, the abiding incursions of the Danes, the conquest by the Norman, each brought and left an influence, a set of Jaws or customs at the least ; and in the after ages, no tyranny was strong enough or senseless enough, no revolution was rash enough, to attempt that worst of all revolutionary havoc, total obliteration of the past, the absolute subjugation of local variety and independence.
Such diversity may possibly offend the merely speculative mind, which is apt to crave that which is squared and levelled to a more theoretic exactness and completeness; but it is the power which has been disciplined by such diversity, and the freedom that accompanies it, which has spread the race over the earth, and has engendered our Union. It is well known that in material nature, in the lower orders of creation, considerable uniformity is met with; but that the higher we ascend, the more diversity is found. A great modern historical philosopher adopted, as a leading principle in his science, this truth, that ‘as in organic beings the most perfect life is that which animates the greatest variety of numbers, so among States that is the most perfect in which a number of institutions originally distinct, being organized each after its kind into centres of national life, form a complete whole.”
Now I believe that it is possible to show that during the whole of our colonial era, during what may be called the primitive period of our political institutions, the whole course of events tended to the establishment of this principle thus philosophically stated by Niebuhr. I mean to say explicitly, that the providential government of the doings of men on this portion of the world, and with reference to this portion of the world, trom the discovery of it onwards to the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, has led on to what has been described as the highest form of political life, a republican system including the principle of distributed local government, in the parlance familiar to us, “a Federal Republic,” or in the philosophical language of the historian whom I just quoted, ‘a complete whole, formed of a number of institutions,” originally distinct, organized each after its kind into centres of life. I am aware that it may sound presumptuous to speak confidently of the purposes of the providential government over the world, or over portions of it, or over the movements of this or that race. But when the principle of a providential government of the human race is recognised, as it must be by every mind whose belief has advanced beyond the confines of absolute atheism, and also, during a long course of years, near three hundred years in the case to which [I wish to apply the principle, you can trace a correspondence between the events on such a period and a

<<<Page: 427>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 163 final result, 1 do not know why we need fear to affirm that those events were providentially controlled and guided to that result. This conviction is farther strengthened when we can perceive beyond such result adequate consequences, can see how that result was in the future to be productive of good. The evidence of such consequences is in the knowledge that the form of government which alone renders popular institutions compatible with extent of territory, is that form which has its origin in this ancient element of Saxon local self-government. Who can question that itis such a political system that has expanded this republic from its primitive circumscription to its present extent, so that that which at first reached not far beyond the sound of the Atlantic, became enlarged beyond the mountains ; then beyond the Mississippi; and now, having crossed the second great mountain range of the continent, has on its other border the sound of the earth’s other great ocean. I know of no grander traditional influence to be observed in history, than this simple Saxon characteristic element and the mighty issues of it now manifest around us, the connexion between this principle of local government obscurely recognised in the ancient fatherland of the Saxon, carried thence to England to be combined with the central power of a constitutional monarchy, and now a living principle here, helping, by the harmony of state rights and federal energy, to extend and perpetuate the republic.
On an occasion like the present, I do not propose to attempt to enter into the details of American colonization, or to dwell upon the familiar story of our early history, but rather to use them only so far as it may be necessary to illustrate the principle I have endeavored to set forth. A rapid review of colonial events, brought into a new connexion and concentered on one principle, will, | hope answer the purpose of maintaining the historical argument which I desire to submit to you. There is perhaps nothing in our early history which now appears more remarkable to us than the long delay on the part of the English government, or the English people, in making use of the title which the right of discovery had given them to the soil of America. It presents a curious blank, near a century before any attempt was made to occupy or to colonize the newly discovered land, and more than a century before a permanent settlement was accomplished.
It has been remarked, that the only immediate result of Cabot’s voyage and discovery of the continent, was the importation into England from America of the first turkeys that had ever been seen in Europe. Such was the beginning of the immense commerce between England and America. For a long time the right of discovery seemed a barren title ; and it is a noticeable fact that while it was the first of the Tudor kings whose commission authorized Cabot to set up the English banner here, it was the last of the Tudor sovereigns who sought to make her title here a reality by planting English homes; and indeed the whole dynasty passed away without anything permanent being achieved. Doubtless, the delay was salutary, was propitious for the future; and perhaps we can conceive how it was so when we recall the character of that Tudor dominion and the spirit of that age. It was not the temper of that dynasty to give the colonial free-agency (it might almost be called independence) which was to prove the germ of republican

<<<Page: 428>>>

nationality. It was not the spirit of that age to ask for such large power of local government as by a later generation was quietly assumed and exercised. The ancient Saxon element of local self-government could not well have been transplanted here, while the strong rule of the Tudor was centralizing so much about the throne; and therefore, (I speak of it as an inference in the logic of history,) the whole sixteenth century passed away and the land was still the natives’; for when the year 1600 came, there was not an English family, no English man or woman, on this continent, unless perchance there was wandering somewhere some survivor of Raleigh’s lost colony.
It would be vain now to speculate upon the influence which might have been exercised on the destinies of our country if that which was the perishable colonization of the 16th century had been permanent. But a knowledge of what was attempted, and of the manner of it, serves to show that it would have been different in character, and therefore in its influences from the later colonization.
When, in 1578, Sir Humphrey Gilbert obtained from Queen Elizabeth letters patent, authorizing him to discover and colonize remote and heathen lands—the first grant of the kind ever made by an English sovereign—there was conferred upon him almost a monopoly of the right of P colonization, with privileges and authorities for the government of his designed colonies of almost indefinite extent, and antl a prohibition upon all persons attempting to settle within two hundred leagues of any place which Sir Humphrey Gilbert or his associates should occupy during the space of six years. While we may deplore the adverse fortunes of this brave voyager—his baffled enterprises and the pious heroism of his dark perishing in the mid-Atlantic—it is not to be lamented that a scheme of colonization so vice-regal in its character; should not have been accomplished. The same comment may be made on the grant to Sir Walter Raleigh—which was of prerogatives and jurisdiction no less ample—to end, after repeated efforts and the well known expeditions which he sent out to the new world, in disappointment and a name; for all that has proved per petual from those enterprises is the word “Virgima’’—a title given, for a considerable time, to an almost indefinite region of America.
Let me here take occasion to state that some recent investigations of |
the State records in England, and particularly a hitherto unnoticed entry on the close-roll of the 24th of Elizabeth, have established the fact that another illustrious public man of those times—Sir Philip Sidney— had turned his earnest and active mind to American discovery, and probably contemplated a voyage in his own person to the western eae That he did so as early as 1582—which was earlier
than the voyages equipped by Raleigh—is a fact, the evidence of which | has but very “lately been discovered, and was published, for the first | time, only in the month of February, 1850. It appears that Sidney ob|
tained from Sir Humphrey Gilbert, under the Queen’s patent to him, a
right to discover and take possession of three millions of acres in Ame-
rica. ‘The grant was large enough to be almost indefinite, and is
another a ee to eee the policy of colonization which prevailed —
in that generation.
Although Sidney’s meditated enterprise was relinquished, it 1s

<<<Page: 429>>>

pleasing to find associated with the early plans of American colonization the name of one who has left so matchless a memory—the scholar, statesman, poet, the friend of poets, the soldier whose early death was mourned by a nation—a death memorable with its last deed of heroic charity, when putting away the cup of water from his own lips, burning as they were with the thirst of a bleeding death, he gave it toa wounded soldier with those famous words, eloquent in their simplicity, “ Thy necessity ws yet greater than mine.”
Permit me to extend this digression a little further to notice an American allusion which occurs in the English literature of the same period in which Sir Philip Sidney flourished. When, in 1590, Spenser gave to the world the first part of ** The Fairy Queen,” he dedicated that wondrous allegory to ‘The most high, mighty, and magnificent Empresse, renouned for pietie, virtue, and all gracious government, Elizabeth, by the grace of God, Queen of England, France, and Ireland, and Virainia.” Yes, there stands the name of that honored State—then, as it were, the name of British America; and while there is many a reason for the lofty spirit of her sons, the pulse of their pride may beat higher at the sight of the record of the ‘Ancient Dominion” on the first page of one of the immortal poems of our language.
To return to my subject. It can readily be perceived that such schemes of colonization as were planned during the reign of Elizabeth— Sir Humphrey Gilbert’s, Sir Philip Sidney’s, Sir Walter Raleigh’s— could hardly have resulted otherwise than in the establishment of vast feudal principalities, to continue under rulers who would have been no less than viceroys, or to be resumed under the immediate sovereignty of the throne. Such occupation of the land could scarce have led on, by any natural sequence and series of events, to a popular government—still less to a political system in which the element of ‘* Union” would exist. There would not have been enough of partition. ‘There would not have been enough of either the spirit or the privilege of distinct and separate colonization—the establishment of communities independent of each other, destined in a later age to grow so naturally into Union. Colonization then would have been too much lke that of France in Canada—something far more regular and uniform, and imposing in appearance as an affair of State; but fraught with no such momentous power of development as was latent in the freer Saxon method. ‘There would have been far less of that “wise and salutary neglect’? which Mr. Burke spoke of when, in his speech on conciliation with America, he said: ‘The colonies, in general, owe little or nothing to any care of ours. They are not squeezed into this happy form by the constraints of watchful and suspicious government; but through a wise and salutary neglect, a generous nature has been suffered to take her own way to perfection.” It was, indeed, ‘‘a wise neglect.” But let me add that it was a wisdom which cannot, with accuracy, be predicated of a passive, negative, neglectful State policy, but of the providential guidance of the race by which there was bestowed upon them the freedom of self-discipline, of political power and expansion. _ It sounds like a paradox and a contradiction ; but it is an obvious truth _ that the first element of union is separation—distinctiveness of existence and of character. The history of union begins not with wnzdy, but with

<<<Page: 430>>>

the creation of such separate existences as in the future may, by some process of assimilation and connexion, become united but not consolidated—forming a complete whole, the portions of which do not lose their distinct organization.
Passing onward from the perishable colonization of Queen Elizabeth’s times to that colonization which proved permanent, it is apparent that it did take that form, and direction, and character, the natural though distant results of which are to be seen in what is now around us. This holds good of the whole period of English colonization in America, from James the First to George the Second—a century and a quarter ; from the arrival of the first. permanent colony in Virginia, and the building of Jamestown, (1607,) down to Oglethorpe’s settlement of Georgia, i in 1732.
The grant to Sir Walter Raleigh having become void by his attainder, British America was again in the King’ s gift—and that King the first of the Stuarts. Now, although the notions of royal prerogative which were cherished by the Stuarts were as high as those of the Tudors, still the relative position of the sovereign was changed, for the progress of constitutional government had developed new sentiments of allegiance and new powers of resistance. 'The seventeenth century, which, in fact, may be called the century of American colonization, for it comprehends nearly all of it, was more propitious than the previous century to the planting of colonies destined to grow to a republic. The process of Lasers now began—giving scope therefor to the ancient Saxon principle of local governme at It was at first, as is well known, a simple twofold partition ; for when king James the First granted the
atent for the territory stretching from the 34th to the 45th degree of
fo) latitade, he divided it between the two companies, the Southern or
London company, and the Northern or Plymouth company. By virtue |
of these grants, and the settlements under them, the country was parcelled out into two great divisions, soon known by the familiar designations of Virginia for the former, and New England for the latter.
I do not propose on an occasion like this to pect the detailed series of grants and settlement: it is enough for the present to remark that
| { {
ne course of colonization was a coutimued process of partition ; so that |
in 1732, at the time of the Georgia settlement, the strip of territory | along the coast of the Atlantic, which then formed British America, | was divided into the thirteen colonies—a colonial system fashioned into thirteen distinct political communities.
This was not merely territorial partition ; political and social varie-
| ( {
ties distinguished the colonies. ‘This was a consequence of what was _
a remarkable peculiarity in the English settlement of America, that — colonization Was individual enterprise, receiving the sanction but not
the support or assistance of the government. No colony in the seven|
teenth century, to which period they nearly all belonged, had any di | rect aid from king or parliament. The solitary exception occurred ina parliamentary ¢ grant of aid to the Georgia colony. Colonization | which was individual enterprise partook of ‘the variety of individual
character and motive—of the different and even conflicting principles,
civil and ecclesiastical, which were dominant or depressed at different periods of the seventeenth century. This, it seems to me, is well wor|

<<<Page: 431>>>

thy of notice, that no century of English history, either earlier or later, was so calculated to give character—and varied character, too—to the colonies, as that century which was the century of colonization—the seventeenth. It was an age in which the activity of the nation, theretofore busy in other directions, was turned to questions of government. The thoughts of men were anxious and occupied—not with questions respecting the succession of this or that branch of a royal family, but with the principles that lie at the very foundation of government, the limits of power, and the rights and duties of the subject. It was an age—better than any other in the annals of the mother-country—fitted to send along with the sons who left her to seek a distant home the dutiful spirit of loyalty, willing obedience to law, and the dutiful spirit of freedom—the two great principles of constitutional government. There was political variety, as well as social; for the colonial overnments, although all bearing a resemblance to the government oi the mother-country, had those distinctive characteristics by which they are classified into the Royal, the Proprietary, and the Charter governments.
It seems strange that the colonial policy of one kingdom should admit of such a diversity, that in some the king’s control was perpetually present; in others it was transferred to lords-proprietary, subjects to whom was given the half-kingly power of palatines; and in others so free were the charters that the people, for a long time after the royal authority was wholly abrogated by independence, asked no change in them. Strange as such colonial diversity appears, it was far more favorable to the future results than any uniform system of colonial government.
I have endeavored to show that a principle, which may safely be said to be a characteristic of our race, in all regions of the earth, has been brought hither to become a great element in our national system ; and, further, that throughout the whole period of discovery and colon zation, whatever was adverse to that principle was checked or frustrated; while, on the other hand, the tendency of events was to the steady development of that principle—the creation of the materials for Union.
In the next lecture I propose to consider the process by which those materials were brought together, without the loss of their distinctive character, as component parts of the Union.

<<<Page: 432>>>

Having considered, at the close of my last lecture, the partition of British America into the several colonial governments, I propose now to ask your attention to the events and influences which combined without consolidating them—in other words, the formation, or, more properly, the growth of the Union. Yor this process there were needed two power? of an opposing nature—a centralizing and a repulsive power— the former to give connexion, the latter to preserve the distinctive local organization.
‘Let me remark, by way of introduction, that in studying the history of the Union the mind is peculiarly exposed to that unconscious delusion, so fr equent in historical studies, which consists in allowing notions and impressions of the present hive to enter inappropriately into our estimate of the past. It 1s thus that we often deceive ourselves with unperceived anachronisms. The complicated frame-work of our political system has been for more than half a century acquiring strength and solidity by the actual working of the system and by the imperceptible processes of time. ‘There are the countless interchanges arising from an active commercial spirit, the progress of the arts is speeding and facilitaling intercourse to an extent never dreamed of in the olden time, ere: are the thousands of social affinities of interest and affection by which fellowship is created and confirmed between various and remote sections of the country. Conceive for an instant the possibility of a knowledge of the written intercommunication, on any one day, transmitted by the agency of the post office or the electric telegraph, what a story it would tell of strong and incalculable affinity—pohitical, commercial, social—of community of traffic and of feeling, precious and far-reaching! So habitually familiar to us is all itis that when we turn to an early era of our history we are apt, unawares, to carry our present associations back where they do not belong. Familiar as we are in our day and generation with the recurrence and easy gathering of conventions, composed of delegates from all parts of the Union, for every variety of purpose—ecclesiastical and political, scientific, educational, commercial, agricultural, and fanatical—we are prone to under-
rate the difficulties of intercourse in former times of more laborious travelling. In the early colonial period the colonies took little heed of each other. ‘There was interdependence between a colony and the mothercountry, but not between one colony and another. This was, perhaps,
a consequence of the policy which was restriction on the commerce and manetaenares of the colonies. It was, in a great measure, in accordance, too, with the feelings of the colonists, for Old England long had a place in their hearts; but what was New England to Virginia, or Virginia to New England? ‘¢ Home’ was the significant and endearing title which continued to be applied, with a permanence of habit that is

<<<Page: 433>>>

remarkable, to the mother-country. When the news of the great fire in London, in 1666, reached Massachusetts, subscriptions of money were made throughout the colony for the relief of the sufferers.
It appears, too, both from documentary history and from private correspondence, how limited was the intercourse between the inhabitants of the different colonies. In the biographies of men whose movements are of sufficient consequence to be traced and recorded, but few instances of the kind can be collected. Washington, in 1756, travelled as far eastward as Boston, and in the next year he visited Philadelphia ; but both these visits were occasioned by peculiar demands of a public nature connected with the old French war—the first, for the purpose of a personal interview with the commander-in chief, General Shirley ; the second, to attend a conference of governors and officers, summoned by Lord Loudoun. These are, I believe, the only occasions; before the beginning of the Revolution, when he attended the Congress of 1774, that Washington went to the northern or middle provinces. Mr. Quincy’s visit to the middle and southern colonies, immediately before the Revolution, was (as is obvious from the record of it) an undertaking of quite an unusual character; in 1773, writing home from Charleston, he speaks of “this distant shore.’ No other instance occurs now to my recollection, except a visit to Boston of two of the Philadelphia patriots—John Dickinson and Joseph Reed—a few years before the war of independence. Even as late as the meeting of the first general Congress—that, | mean, of 1774—there is much, it appears to me, in the private letters and other contemporary evidence of that period which shows that when the delegates to that Congress assembled they came together very much as strangers to each other personally, and representing, too, communities strange to each other but finding more congeniality than they had anticipated.
[n thus noticing individual intercourse, as illustrative of the times, there is one case, indeed, which I have not spoken of, because it is clearly exceptional, and must so be considered in judging of the per-
. . . . 5 ~ sonal intercommunication during the colonial period. I refer to the
case of Dr. Franklin. Boston-born and Philadelphia-bred he had, no doubt, in consequence a less provincial feeling, a more expanded sense of citizenship, which was favored too by the course and opportunities of his remarkable career, his personal activity, and his official positions. No man had so much to do with various colonies; for, not to speak of his wanderings in boyhood, we find him, under his appointment in 1753 as Postmaster General for America, travelling in his onehorse wagon from Pennsylvania into New England. Again, in conference with delegates from seven of the colonies at the Albany Congress of 1754, busy at Boston with Governor Shirley, at Philadelphia with a Massachusetts commissioner, and all in quick succession; in Maryland acting as a sort of unofficial quartermaster for General Braddock; at a later period of colonial history, in England, uniting the agencies of Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and Georgia. Now, although undoubtedly the formation of the Union is to be traced to causes of deeper import than any individual influences, I cannot but think that such various and extended intercourse as Dr. Franklin’s must have aided in no small degree in bringing about that community of civic

<<<Page: 434>>>

feeling which at length took the shape of political union. Sagacious, practical, affable, a man of the people in the best sense of the term, led by official duties hither and thither through the land, brought into business relations with the highest and the humblest functionaries, governors and generals and village postmasters, Franklin cannot but be regarded as an instrument imperceptibly and unconsciously doing the work of union. His case was, however, an exception to the ordinary intercourse among the inhabitants of the several colonies, and as an exception proving what we are apt to lose sight of, that the formation of the Union was a slow, a laborious, and reluctant process. Happily so, for thus it gained a strength which no hasty or premature coalition ever could have acquired. The period of transition from the original state of political severalty to the present political combination may be described as a space of time not shorter than a century and a half, making the computation from the first distinct effort at union, the original suggestion in 1637 of that little local coalition styled ‘ The New England Confederacy,’’ down to the Declaration of Independence, or, if a later date be preferred, when in 1789 the Union was made ‘““more perfect”’ by the adoption of the present Constitution. During this long period the processes of combination were going on silently, imperceptibly, seldom thought of, and never fully appreciated; advances sometimes made, and then the cause retrograding ; the power of attraction prevailing at one time, and the power of repulsion at another; connexion at one period looked to for security, and again shunned and resisted as concealing danger.
It is not without interest to observe that there was nothing in the physical character of the country, with all its variety of soil and climate, which presented impediments in the formation of the Union, There was no natural frontier at any part of the territory occupied by the settlements which were for a long time limited to the country extending from New Hampshire to Georgia, and bounded by the ocean and the first great range of mountains.
Rivers flowing north and south are thought to be most influential upon civilization, perhaps by connecting the climate and soil of different latitudes. When our territory was expanded to receive the whole valley of the Mississippi, we can look back to the long and difficult negotiations respecting the navigation of that river, when its banks were held by different powers, as indicating that Nature fitted it for a great highway for one people, and to bind them strongly together for ever.
No bay or river interposed a dangerous or difficult navigation ; indeed, the great rivers, the Delaware, the Susquehannah, the Hudson, and the Connecticut, each flowing through the territory of several colonies, served by their tree navigation to facilitate the intercourse of the colonists. There was no such mountain intersection as would cut off by a natural barrier one portion of the country from another, such as has been observed in Italy, where only a few years ago a Neapolitan naturalist, making an excursion to one of the highest of the central Apennines, found medicinal plants growing in the greatest profusion which the Neapolitans were regularly in the habit of importing from other couutries, as no one suspected their existence within their own kingdom,
Looking to the physical character of the continent in relation to the

<<<Page: 435>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ig
subject of social and political union, f may allude to another consideration as affecting our national progress and permanence. It has been observed by a distinguished French naturalist that mountain ranges which run east and west establish much more striking differences with regard to the dwellers on the opposite sides than those ranges which exiend north and south, a statement confirmed by observation through the history of mankind. The Scandinavian Alps have not prevented the countries on both sides being occupied by a people of common descent, while the feeble barrier of the Cheviot hills and the Highlands has served to keep the Anglo-Saxon and the Celt apart even in a period of advanced civilization. The Spaniards and the Italians differ more from their neighbors across the mountains extending east and west than the former from the Portuguese, or the Piedmontese from the Provengals. Of this physical law of civilization and the destiny of races the most remarkable illustration is perhaps to be found in the separation, which continued through so many centuries of ancient history, of the races that occupied the northern coasts of the Mediterranean and the races that dwelt in Central Europe. There isno more remarkable fact in the history of mankind; and the barrier which so wondrously preserved this separation between populous nations comparatively so near to each other, was that east and west mountain range, which extends from the western extremity of the Pyrennees, at the shores of the Atlantic eastward, to the shores of the Caspian. It was a partition that remained unbroken by either the southern or the northern race, with rare and only partial exceptions, until at length the time arrived for those vast irruptions by which a new civilization was to take the place of the ancient and the Roman. The application of this law of Nature to our own race occupying this continent is manifest, and it is of momentous interest in connexion with the origin, the extension, and the perpetuity of the Union. The mountain ranges, great and small, extend in a northwardly and southwardly direction, but none in that direction which seems to have a power for partition over the races of men. It is only conventional lines running east and west that perplex the nation.
The physical character of the territory occupied by these colonies which where to become the thirteen United States, was favorable to the establishment of Union. Further, it may be regarded as favorable to the same result that during the colonial period no addition of territory took place which might have introduced an incongruous element, un-
. =) . . . . manageble material to be brought into union. In making this remark,
I have especially in my thoughts the failure of Cromwell's plan for securing his then recent conquest of Jamaica by co-operation with Massachusetts in planting a New England colony there. The Protector’s proffered gift of a West India island was declined by the practical good sense of the general court of the colony; and thus the community which was destined to grow in compact strength on their own soil was saved from being parted into two communities with the ocean between them. The interview between Cromwell and Leveret, the agent of the colony, as narrated by the latter in his despatch to Governor Endicott, (December 20, 1656,) is curiously characteristic on the one hand of that intense and deep policy which is part of the mystery of the Protector’s cha

<<<Page: 436>>>

racter, and on the other, of the keen, clear-sighted, common sense of the representative of the colony :
«¢ At my presenting,” writes Leverett, ‘your letter of the Ist of December, 1656, to his Highness, he was pleased to inquire of New England’s condition, and what news as to the business of Jamaica; to which I gave answer according to the advice received. By his resent thereof, together with what I had from him the 18th November, he manifested a very strong desire in him for some leading and considerable company of New England men to go thither; for at that time he was pleased to express that he did apprehend the people of New England had as a clear a call to transport themselves from thence to Jamaica, as they had from England to New England, in order to their bettering their outward condition, God having promised his people should be the head and not the tail; besides that design hath its tendency to the overthrow of the man of sin ; and withal was pleased to add, that though the people had been sickly, yet it was said to be a climacterical year ; that others had been to view the place, as Nevis people, who, upon liking, were gone down; and Christopher’s people were upon motion ; and he hoped by what intelligence he had from Captain Gookin, that some considerable numbers would go from New England. His Highness was pleased to hear me in what I objected. As to the bettering our outward condition, though we had not any among us that had to boast, as some particulars in other plantations, of raising themselves to great estates, yet take the body of the people, and all things considered, they lived more comfortably like Englishmen than any of the rest of the plantations. To which his Highness replied that they were more industrious, what then would they be in a better country? To which I added, that there were now in New England produced to bespeak us a Commonwealth greater than in all the English plantations besides; the which his Highness granted. I objecting, the contrariety of spirits, principles, manners, and customs of the people of New England, to them that were at the island or on any other plantations that could remove thither, so not like to cement; his Highness replied that were there considerable persons that would remove from thence, they should have the government in their hands, and be strengthened with the authority of England, who might be capable of giving check to the ill and vicious manners of all.”’— (Hutchinson’s History, Vol. I, p. 176.)
We need not now speculate what might have been the effect; a people who had this consciousness of much that bespake them a commonwealth, had they been tempted away from their own stern clime and soil to dwell in a tropical island ; but of this we may be assured, when we look forward to the subsequent career of that people, that it was happily provided that they should remain compact at home.
In like manner at a later period of our history, all the efforts which at the beginning of the revolutionary struggle were made to bring the other British provinces into co-operation with the thirteen colonies proved utterly ineffectual. It will be remembered, that when the first general Congress met in 1774 and deliberated on plans of peaceful resistance to the obnoxious policy of the mother-country, it was a matter of solicitude to increase and fortify that resistance by enlarging the sphere of it. It must be borne in mind that all that was then aimed at

<<<Page: 437>>>

was colonial redress; to that, and not to independence did the first Congress direct its thoughts, its words, its action. The events of that time followed in such quick succession, leading so rapidly on to independence, and now seen to be so rapidly connected with such a result, that we are apt to forget that independent existence as a nation was not, for some time after the contest began, aimed at, or even desired. The heart of the people felt and avowed a sincere and natural reluctance to break away from an ancient allegiance. Thus contemplating a continuance of the colonial condition and not looking beyond it, the desire was to render colonial resistance as effective as possible, by bringing as large an amount of it as possible to bear on the ministry and parliament. Accordingly repeated exertions were made to induce all the colonies to make common cause. ‘The Congress, composed at first of the delegations of twelve colonies, from New Hampshire to South Carolina, appealed to the other colonies, Nova Scotia, St. Johns, and earnestly and urgently to Canada. The addresses to these British provinces fill
a large space in the journal of the first Congress. The hope was that all Bree America might be brought to think, feel, and to act in unison in a cause then regarded as a temporary one, simply colonial redress, the restoration of a former colonial policy with which the colonist was content.
And here let me remark in passing that this attempted policy of general colonial co-operation appears to me to explain both the use and the disuse of a term which for several years was a very familiar one, but afterwards became obsolete in our political vocabulary and for a long time has had only a historical significance. I refer tothe word “ continental’ as employed both formalily dnd familiarly in the titles ‘the continental Congress,”’ ‘the continental Army,” and in a phrase of less agreeable association ‘ the continental Currency.” ‘The term was an appropriate one when it was meditated to make the colonial resistance co-extensive with the British communities on the continent; and such was the plan when the word came into use, and it passed into disuse when it was at length ascertained that such enlarged co-operation was not to be accomplished, but that out of the conflict there was to arise a new nationality not co-extensive with the continental extent of British power in America.
The second Congress, I mean that of 1775, clung to the same hope and the same policy of colonial combination on the most enlarged scale ; and this feeling continued even after the beginning.of hostilities. Again did Congress address to the nonparticipant provinces elaborate appeals
and invitations ; again did they communicate arguments to Canada to BE justt ate the hidden perils of the Quebec bill, to show the superiority of the common law over the civil law, to expound religious toleration, persuading the French Canadian that Roman Catholic and Protestant might dwell together securely and harmoniously as in the cantons of Switzerland.
Nay, further, the Congress indulged the expectation of even more than cis-Atlantic opposition, for it “sent. its voice from Philadelphia across the sea to the people of Ireland. In the earliest scheme of confederation—that submitted to Congress by Dr. Franklin, in July, 1775
—one of the articles expressly provided for the admission of Ireland,

<<<Page: 438>>>

the West India islands, Quebec, St. Johns, Nova Scotia, Bermudas, and East and West Floridas into the ‘“ Association,’? which was then relied upon as a means of colonial redress.
Besides the appeals and the invitations addressed to the Canadians, there was a hope that a successful invasion of Canada might bring the population there into that support of the common colonial cause for which the other means had failed. Accordingly, the expedition under Montgomery, in the winter of 17756 had a purpose additional to mere conquest—that of gaining the support and the assistance of their fellow-colonists.
Still clinging to this object, Congress resorted to one other and the last a attempt—an embassy to speak in person to the Canadian—the commission composed of Dr. Franklin, Charles Carrol, and Samuel Chase, taking with them for their coadjutors a Roman Catholic priest, the Rev. John Carrol, (afterwards archbishop of Baltimore,) and equally pacific agents, a printer and a French translator.
All these efforts—addresses made and made again, invasion, the embassy of commissioners—all proved utterly unavailing in bringing to those early Congresses any co-operation from other British provinces. The addresses were not responded to, probably were hardly heeded; the military expeditions failed, and the commissioners found no audience. ‘The printer who accompanied Dr. Franklin and the other commissioners proved of no avail, in consequence of an unanticipated but fatal obstacle, and that was that reading was a very rare accomplishment with the French Canadian population. Quebec was not more impregnable to Montgomery than were the minds of the Canadians to Franklin and a printing-press.
These schemes for more extended colonial combination—began in 1774, continued during 1775 and into 1776—all came to naught; and now we can see, what was not visible to those who conceived those schemes, how happy it was that they did come to naught. I do not mean to question or to disparage the sagacity of those colonial statesmen, who during three years persevered in those schemes and the various methods of accomplishing them. Judged with relation to the objects aimed at, those schemes were wise and patriotic ; but the objects were only colonial opposition, and the combination which was contemplated was only to be a temporary one, to cease whenever the colonial grievances should cease. But in God’s government over the destinies of the race and country other and oreater results were in reserye,— independence, nationality, union, ith relation to such results, [ repeat it was most happy that all attempts to bring about Canadian combination proved absolutely fruitless. It was only eleven years before, let it be remembered, that Canada had been transferred, by conquest and the treaty of Paris, from French to British dominion, A province so recently foreign in laws, in language, in the various social elements, must needs Have proved an incongruous, if not a discordant member in such a union as was on the eve of completion between the thirteen colonies. The very fact that it was necessary for Congress to cause the addresses to Canada to be translated into French, is of itself enough to show how little congeniality there would have been for the perpetual purpose of union. When, therefore, Canacian

<<<Page: 439>>>

sympathy and co operation were invoked, ‘a wiser ’ spirit” was at work to make that invocation of no effect.
While the addition of these incongruous materials was happily prevented, it must not be forgotten that the portion of the continent which was to be the soil of the Union already included within its-bounds, indeed in its very centre, elements equally foreign and unsuited to natural combination ; for almost contemporaneous with the settlement of Virginia and of New England, in the first quarter of the seventeenth
century, Hudson’s voyage had created the claim of Holland, and the grant by the States General to the Dutch West India Company planted their settlement along the banks of the Hudson. Thus was introduced into the very heart of the land a hostile element, for England and Holland were at strife in the East Indian commercial settlements, in which region, the massacre of the English traders, at Amboyna, occurred about the same period.
Another occupation, foreign, but less antagonistic, was that which connects with American history the name of one of the wisest and noblest of Europe’s continental kings, statesman, and soldier, Gustavus Adolphus, of Sweden ; a company of whose subjects settled, it will be remembered, on the banks of the Delaware.
Settlements such as these, by two of the great European powers, and on most important sections of the continent, were unpropitious to any progress of union among the British colonies, for the foreign and unfriendly occupation was interposed between the northern and the southern settlements, an occupation held too by one of these foreign powers for well nigh half a century, and during all that time ambitious of larger colonial dominion, and actively aggressive.
For the removal of these impediments to our union, there was needed the strong control of conquest. In one respect that process was simplified, as if the course of things was so guided as to leave behind little as possible of the ill blood and rankling recollections of conquest. There was engendered no animosity between the Swedes and the English colonists; for it was Holland that did the work of conquest, and subjugated the little Swedish colony on the banks of the Delaware.
For England, there was, therefore, left only one colonial adversary ; and the adverse element of a foreign occupation of a considerable and important part of the continent was done away by the result of the war between England and Holland; the treaty of Breda, and the final cession of the territory, thus establishing English éclonial dominion in uninterrupted occupation of the whole extent of the country, which was thereafter to be in union.
It would, perhaps, not be easy now to measure the sense of repugnance which survived in the minds of the conquered Dutch colonists ; the natural reluctance at the transfer, by conquest, of their allegiance ; the compulsory identification with a people who had other laws and usages, and another language: but whatever these feelings may have been, they met soon with what must have been a most unlooked for alleviation in the course of events in Europe; for it was only twelve years after the Dutch, colonists in America passed under British dominion, that their native country, Holland, gave a sovereign to Great Britain, and thus the throne of their conquerors was filled by one of

<<<Page: 440>>>

their countrymen, him who had been their Stadtholder, their Prince of Orange. Thus British rale became less of foreign rule to them; and thus the revolution of 1688 may be referred to as having contributed a harmonizing influence to the progress of the American union.
The Dutch dominion in America, adverse as it was to union in one respect, by parting the northern from the southern English colonies, in another respect exerted an influence favorable to colonial combination. It was not only the presence of hostile Indian tribes on the New England frontier, but it was also the neighborhood of the Dutch, “that prompted the first effort of colonial union; that of the united colonies of New England” which had its beginning in 1643, the first ‘‘ confederacy,” the first time the word “ confederacy”? was used in America. It was the first of these combinations, serving to show how it was a sense of common danger, the sense of strength and security in united action, which, by slow and safe gradations, was to bring the several colonies into union, disclosing, from time to time, how natural it would be for the sentiment of social union, which all the while, no doubt, however unrecognised at the time, was growing strong, to be converted into re union; how the sense of brotherhood, of a community of citizenship would imperceptibly prepare itself to assume political form and consistency.
I cannot pause to comment on that early confederacy, its principles, its system, and itsuses. It purported to be “a perpetual league of fricndship and amity,” and it contained provision for its enlargement by the admission of other colonies into confederacy with the four colonies who were the contracting parties. Limited as this confederacy was in the number of its members, cautiously restricted as if, was in its powers, and close and pressing as the dangers were, five years were consumed in the planning of it; perpetual as it professed to be, it lasted no more than about forty years; no other colony was added to it, and as the dangers which suggested it passed away, the confederacy lost its interest, and when its existence ceased incidentally with the abrogation of the New England charters, in the reign of James H, no effort was made to renew it. The old Saxon principle of distinctive local government was at work even within the narrow circuit of these kindred Puritan colonies, and no adequate motive for union presented itself, There are traces of mutual jealousies there ; especially was there jealousy of the centralizing authority of Massachusetts. ‘This feeling was manifest in the solicitude on the part of the Plymouth colony to preserve its separate existence. It breaks out in the bitter humor of a not very felicitous pun on the Bay colony, in a despatch from the Plymouth agent to the Plymouth governor, when, writing from London in 1691, he says: “ All the frame of Heaven moves upon one axis, and the whole of New England’s interest seems designed to be loaden on one bottom, and her particular motion to be concentric to the Massachusetts
tropic. You know who are wont to trot after the bay horse.”—(Wiswall to Hinckly, Nov. 5, 1691. Hutch. I, 365.)
In the New England confederacy, unanimity in religious creed was an essential principle of political concord, an impediment to the progress of union, if the confederacy had continued, for admission was refused to their dissenting fellow-colonists of Rhode Island. 'The Purr

<<<Page: 441>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. i yy
tan clergy who went to Virginia were ejected for non-conformity ; and it was only about twenty years before William Penn obtained the charter for Pennsylvania, and came with his Quaker followers, that the ‘‘ Fyiends” who ventured into New England were scourged under the law against “vagabond Quakers,” and the sterner penalty of death inflicted.
If at an early period sectarian animosity was burning lines of division between the colonists, the now tolerant christianity of : a later time contributed largely to the more accordant results of blending the communities together. Each christian society was at length enabled peacefully to commune with its own brotherhood in other sections of the country, and thus ecclesiastical sympathy became one of the means by which the way was prepared for civil and political sympathies. The inhabitants of different and distant colonies became members of one household in their faith, thus learning, perhaps, how they might become members of one politica! family. Among the churches of the church of England in the colonies, no ecclesiastical union in one collective representative assembly was formed until after the peace of 17838. The Presbyterians, feeling the want of ecclesiastical combination, as appears from a circular elise of the ministers and elders at Philadelphia, began in 1764 to take measures to effect a union of their scattered forces.
I turn now to another and very different influence of union, which is to be discovered in the military colonial combinations. On repeated occasions the authorities of the colonies—governors and commissioners— were brought into connexion for conference respecting hostilities, offensive as well as defensive. It was upon such an occasion, in 1690, at New York, that the word ‘ Congress” first has a place im our history. But, besides such occasional conterences, the colonists were brought together in joint military service, to know each other the better thereby. This kind of association may be traced as an influence of union, more or less operative on different occasions from the times of what were called “ King William’s war,” and “Queen Anne’s war,”’ at the close of the seventeenth and at the beginning of the eighteenth century, down to the peace ofsParis, in 1763, at the end of the old French war. The colonies contributed their re espective sums of money to the general cost of the war, and troops levied in the different colonies soni together in the several early attempts on Canada, in the expedition against “Cape Breton and the capture of Louisburg, and upon what was the first foreign service of the colonists, (I mean foreign beyond the continent,) Serion’s disastrous expeditions against Cartha agena and Cuba. ‘The associated service in the old French war was the latest discipline of the kind to prepare the colonies for the war of the revolution.
While such’ influences and others of a more imperceptible nature, which [ cannot now pause to discuss, were working propitiously for union, there was a counter-agency produced by the indications of a desire on the part of the British government to adopt a different colonial policy, to substitute for ‘that wise and salutary neglect,” which Mr. Burke afterwards commended, a more active control. In carrying out such a policy there would be needed more of union, not spontaneous, voluntary colonial union, but compulsory union, by the imperial power on the other side of the a Tt was at the close of the seventeenth
Mis. Doc. 24

<<<Page: 442>>>

178 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF : century that William the Third formed the standing Council of the Lords Commissioners for Trade and Plantations, vested with new and centralizing powers of superintendence. There had been in the more arbitrary reign of James the Second indications of the same policy of more active colonial control; and it made itself manifest in the new methods of colomal administration, their policy and their plans, in one instance nothing less than a recommendation that ‘¢all the English colonies of North America be reduced (reduced, such was the word) under one government and one viceroy.” ‘The consequence of all this was, that union began to present itself to the thoughts of the colonists in the obnoxious light of a means of increasing the ascendancy of the royal prerogative ; ‘and they watched with perpetual vigilance every approach to combined action, to union avowedly or covertly compulsory, as something that was fatal to colonial rights.
The ancient Saxon element of distributed power was quickened into renewed activity during a long period of apprehension. When, in consequence of the suggestion of the Board of ‘Trade and of the colonial secretary, the Albany convention was held in 1754, with its delegations
from seven colonies, extending as far south as Maryland, the plan of
union proposed by that Congress was, as is well known, rejected ; although the war with France was imminent, and although the author of the plan was Franklin himself, a delegate from Pennsylvania. The several colonial assemblies detected too much of prerogative in the scheme of union, which had the singular fate of proving also unsatisfactory in England, because of the opposite objection of too little prerogative. F ranklin was discouraged in his hopes of colonial contederation; and one of his correspondents said to him, writing from Boston, in 1754: ‘* However necessary a union may be for the mutual safety and preservation of these colonies, it is certain it will never take place unless we are forced to it by the supreme authority of the nation.”’
Jt was by the action of the supreme power of the nation that umon did take place, but not in the way contemplated when those words were used. When the new and obnoxious colonial policy took the well defined shape of the Stamp » Act, union, which had been dreaded when the proposal came in any torm from the British government, was instinctively resorted 10 as a means of defence and security, and the dele ova of nine colonies, as far south as South Carolina, met in the Congress o f AVGo:
When, nine years later, the power of the British government struck, with the Boston Port Bill, at one single point. the sentiment of union was discovered to be strong enough and quick enough to make common cause with almost instantaneous rapidity, and twelve colonies (soon afterwards to reach the full complement of the old thirteen) assembled by their delegations in the Congress of 1774, When it is considered that those delegations were chosen in various ways, with much of irregularity, of necessity, I know of nothing so remarkable in the history of representation as the meeting of those fifty-two men in a room of a building familiar to Philadelphians as the Carpenters’ Hall, locking the doors, enjoining secresy on the members, and all the while the people from New Hampshire to Georgia waiting quietly, willingly, resolutely, prepared to do, I will not say the dr Iding of that

<<<Page: 443>>>

Congress, but to accept the conclusions of that Congress as the voice of the nation. What higher proof could there be of the unknown strength of union? I say the unknown strength of the sentiment of union, because that Congress contemplated nothing more than ‘ association” (as it was termed) in a policy of non-importation and nonexportation. When the Congress of 1774 adjourned, it was a contingent adjournment, leaving it to be determined by the course events might take whether the colonies would again be found acting in concert. The plan of confederation proposed by Franklin in 1775 looked to no duration beyond the continuance of the obnoxious acts of Parliament; and even alter the war began, and the continental army was tormed, perpetuity of union appears not to have formed part of the plan of operations. It was not until the wearied patience of the people was worn out, and the aggrieved sense of freedom driven to the last resort, that the coalition of the colonies began to assume the aspect of permanence. ‘Then, and not till then, it became apparent what had long been the tendency of things touching the relation between those distinct communities. Together they had sought redress for their grievances; together they had declared their rights; they appealed, petitioned, remonstrated together ; and when they encountered the same repulse and the same disappointment, they ‘ assoctated” under solemn piedges, ‘“ the sacred ties of virtue, honor, and love of country,” tor a combined pacific resistance. At length, when all had failed, and they saw that the hour had come for the last appeal, they bowed down together in “ public humiliation, fasting, and prayer,’ and, with hearts thus fortified, they stood prepared to face the common danger. It was one war to all. Blood was soon shed; and that blood, poured out for the common cause of all, was the seal of union. Further, when hostilities had been continued for more than a year, and it became manifest that the war was ineffectual as a means of mere colonial redress, the process which established national existence was at the same time the consummation of union. The colonies, which found themselves in a state of revolutionary anarchy, instead of hurrying to separate action, deliberately sought the advice of the whole country as it might be given by Congress. They sought and they followed that guidance. ‘his was union. When the final and formal act of independence came, it was done by all and for all. That was union. Therefore, there is, I think, no proposition in our constitutional history clearer, simpler, truer than this, that Union ts our country.
In conclusion, permit me to say, that I fear 1 have exposed myself to some condemnation for rashness in attempting to treat so large a subject within such limited space. I have had it most at heart to show how, during a very long period of time, there has been a tendency of events proving a providenjial purpose in the establishment of the Union. However the feelings of men may differ in respect for antiquity, what mind can refuse to recognise a claim for all that can be given of thoughtful, affectionate, and dutiful loyalty to that which for our good was achieved by more than human agency working through centuries. Yor the Constitution of the United States you may carry your debt of gratitude to the memory of that assembly of sages and statesmen who in convention constructed the Constitution. The debt of gratitude for

<<<Page: 444>>>

Independence may be paid to that other assembly of wise and good men who declared it. But for the Union, our thanksgiving must be laid at the foot of the throne of God; and therefore treason to the Union cannot be conceived of but as a crime which heaps upon the traitor an accumulated guilt of thankless impiety. I speak it with reverence and with humility, and with thoughttulness in the words I use, when I say that this Union of ours was the work of God.

<<<Page: 445>>>

First Lecture.
To study the peculiarities of the atmospheric changes in North America, and the effects of the climate on agriculture, are the princial objects for which I have visited this part of the world. I am much gratified to find so large a number of meteorological observers scattered over all parts of this vast. continent, contributing so materially to the advancement of science.
Since I have had an opportunity of studying the meteorology of the United States, I have been much impressed with the limited area of the field for investigations within the British islands. It now appears as a mere handbreadth, in comparison to the wide territory over which you are prosecuting your inquiries into the causes of atmospheric disturbances.
Your government has done considerable for the support of meteorology. It has accumulated at the National Observatory, under the direction of Lieutenant Maury, an invaluable collection of facts relative to the sea. It has established observations at each of its military posts, and has secured the services of Professor Espy, who has done more tor theoretical meteorology, in my opinion, than any other living man.
But I must confess that I would have turned my face to the Old World somewhat unsatisfied, if I had not had, through the politeness of the Secretary, an opportunity to examine the meteorological records collected within the walls of this Institution, and, through them, to become acquainted with the peculiarities of your climate; and to trace out the nature and extent of some of the atmospheric disturbances which had attracted my attention during my tour.
In this short course of lectures I shall not enter upon those questions which relate to general meteorology, but shall confine myself principally to the analogies which seem to subsist between the action of atmospheric agents in Europe and in North America, and point out a few facts which demand more extended observations for their solution.
*Notr.—The author of these lectures came to this country with letters of introduction from Sir David Brewster, Professor Airy, and other distinguished cultivators of science in Great Britain. The Smithsonian meteorological records were opened for his investigation, and other facilities extended him for the prosecution of his studies. Without intending to endorse the peculiar views which he may have advanced, we may say that his lectures contain facts and suggestions fully worthy of attention. J. He

<<<Page: 446>>>

To comprehend the nature of the changes which the atmosphere undergoes, the elementary principles of meteorological science must be understood; but I do not intend to enter more minutely into these than will enable those who have not devoted much attention to the subject to comprehend the more important truths.
The nature of the atmosphere was long involved in obscurity. Its properties could not be ascertained tll chemistry and other branches of natural science were considerably advanced. Air has so little color that it is almost invisible, and offers so little resistance to motion, that it was considered by the school of Aristotle imponderable. This opinion was entertained for many centuries afterwards, until the invention of the barometer, by Toricelli, in 1640, and the discovery of the fact pointed out by Pascal, that the barometer stands lower on the top of a mountain than at its base, left no doubt remaining that air was possessed of weight, and, consequently, that the atmosphere exerted a great pressure.
Ifa glass tube, three feet in length, be filled with mercury, and its épen end inverted in a basin of the same liquid, the mercury in the tube will stand, at the level of the sea, nearly 30 inches higher than the surface of that in the basin. This column of mercury, which, if its section is a square inch, weighs nearly 15 pounds, is balanced by a column of air of the same section and extending to the top of the atmosphere. The pressure of the atmosphere is, therefore, equal to that of an ocean of mercury of 30 inches deep, or to a pressure on each square inch of surface of about 15 pounds. Moreover, mercury is 154 times heavier than water, and 10,500 times heavier than dry air at the surface of the earth; hence the pressure of the atmosphere is equal to that of an ocean of water of about 33 feet deep, or an ocean of air, of equal density throughout, of 27,000 feet high.
That the atmosphere should press on the surface of the earth, and on all parts of our bodies, with a weight of 15 pounds to the square inch, is, at first sight, a very perplexing fact; but it is fully illustrated by the familar and analogous pressure of water. The diver who descends below the surface of the sea is pressed on all sides by the superincumbent weight of water, and, instead of being incommoded by this, is rendered more buoyant. The particles of the air are of extreme tenuity and of almost perfect mobility, and therefore offer no resistance to bodies moving among them. On these accounts the weight of the air, and the great pressure of the atmosphere, remained so long concealed.
For a long time after the discovery of the pressure of the atmosphere, the world remained in ignorance of its chemical and mechanical constitution. ‘The analysis*of air was, however, one of the first triumphs of modern chemistry. Rutherford discovered hydrogen, one of its components, in 1772; and, two years after, Priestly and Shiel, independently of each other, discovered the other principal ingredient, namely, oxygen.
Dry air is composed of 77 parts nitrogen, 23 oxygen, by weight; 79 parts nitrogen, 21 oxygen, by volume; carbonic acid, 1.1000 by weight; ammonia, only a trace. The atmosphere also contains a certain amount of moisture. This is the only component which is liable to

<<<Page: 447>>>

much change in its quantity. It varies from two per cent. to an inappreciable portion.
Again, the chemical composition of air had been established several years before its mechanical character was fully made out. The sages of Egypt and of Greece disputed about the constitution of matter; but their speculations, however ingenious, led to no definite results. At the end of the last century many valuable facts had been accumulated on this point; but no great law had been proposed to link these facts together before Jonn Datton applied the atomic theory of the constitution of matter to explain the mechanical phenomena of the atmosphere.
Dalton did much for chemical science, and is justly regarded as the father of meteorology. He was gifted with gigantic powers of mind, and, in other respects, possessed a noble character.
Modern science regards matter as made up of atoms endowed with attracting and repelling force. In the case of a solid or liquid, these tygo forces are in equilibrium—the atoms are held at a distance from each other, and do not fill all the space enclosed within their boundaries. Ifa solid or liquid is subjected to pressure, the atoms are made to approach each other, and the repulsion is increased ; so that, when the pressure is removed, the atoms fly back to their original position. If, on the contrary, we attempt to draw a solid apart, the attraction comes into operation, and offers a resistance which is called cohesion. In the case of aeriform substances, the repulsion entirely preponderates. Dalton gave to this theory a definite form, and applied it to the phenomena of the atmosphere.
All our conceptions of the constitution of substances, in regard to their solid, liquid, or aeriform states, are more or less intimately associated with the atomic constitution of matter in its relations to heat. Thus, the action of heat converts a solid into a liquid, by giving mobility to its atoms. ‘The action of heat converts a liquid into an elastic vapor, or gas, by imparting a repulsive force to its atoms. Indeed, in regard to gases, the repulsive force and heat are often looked upon as identical, and we shall consider them to be so. The elastic properties of gas, steam, or vapor, are, then, owing to the mutual repulsion of the atoms, in consequence of the action of heat. ‘This view, arising naturally out of the atorhic constitution of matter, gives an explanation of the mechanism of gases no less simple than consistent.
To illustrate this principle one fact will suffice. If water is converted into steam under the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere, a cubic inch is transformed into about a cubic foot of vapor. ‘The atoms of water are, therefore, twelve times further apart in the case of steam than they are in that of the liquid. "The action of heat has had the effect of putting every atom in a state of repulsion with regard to its fellows— every one tends to fly from the other with as much force as if each was under the influence of a powerful spring. ‘The intensity of the repulsion of the atoms constitutes the force of the steam. The elastic properties of the gases of the atmosphere are also owing to the mutual repulsion of their atoms, though the repulsion is much more permanent in this case than in that of steam. No cold or pressure has yet been found sufhcient to reduce nitrogen or oxygen to a liquid form.

<<<Page: 448>>>

The bulk of gas is increased by heat, which must not be looked upon as increasing the size of the atoms, but only as increasing the repulsive force between them. The repulsive or expansive force is measured by the weight which it can support. In the atmosphere, the expansive force of a portion of air, or its elasticity, is exactly balanced by the gravity of all the air above it. The weight of the atoms, from the to to the bottom of the atmosphere, amounts, as we have said before, to about fifteen pounds on each square inch; the elastic or repulsive force which keeps the atoms apart is exactly equal to this amount. Gravity and elasticity are so equally poised, and the atoms move so freely amongst each other, that the air is in a state of the most delicate balance that can be imagined.
The expansive property of gases is a remarkable phenomenon in physics. We have no means of ascertaining its limits, but we know if the whole air was exhausted from this room, a single cubic inch of either oxygen or nitrogen would, if admitted into so large a vacuum, instantly occupy every part of it, and still press, though with diminished force, against the walls for further expansion. The repulse force which exists among the atoms, though greatly weakened, would not be exhausted.
The law which regulates the density and elasticity of gases was discovered about half a century after Toricelli invented the barometer. Mariotte found, by experiment, ‘‘'That the density and elasticity of atmospheric air are directly, but the space it occupies inversely, as the force of compression.” ‘That is to say, if you exhausted the air from the receiver of an air-pump until the barometer stood at fifteen inches, the pressure or elasticity of the air would only be half of what it was before the experiment. It would take two cubic inches of air in this state of rarity to weigh as much as one did when the barometer was at thirty inches; or, in other words, one half of the atoms being removed, the remaining half are further apart, since they still occupy the same space. The number of atoms being reduced one half, if the temperature is the same, their repulsive force is also reduced in the same ratio, and, therefore, the repulsion of the particles of any gas increases as the cube root of the distance between them diminishes. ‘The repuision between the atom at the very top of the atmosphere and those below it is so much weakened by separation that it is precisely equal to the weight.
From the simple fact that the repulsion of the atoms of gases varies as the number of atoms contained in a given space, it follows that the elasticity and density of a gas are as the pressure directly, that the volume is as the pressure inversely, and that, consequently, the one can be deduced from the other by the simple rule of proportion. This law holds true in regard to the most minute additions of weight, and we have the full assurance of reason, founded on experiment, Other things being equal, that the distance which separates every atom of air from the top to the bottom of the atmosphere decreases as we descend ; in short, each atom is nearer the atom immediately below it than the one above. The various strata of the atmosphere thus in some measure resembles fleeces of woo! or loose balls of cotton piled upon each other. The wool or cotton is more compressed, and therefore more dense, in proportion to the weight it bears; it is most so

<<<Page: 449>>>

next the bottom, and least so at the top. The air, in the same way, is more rare as we ascend to greater heights, the atoms being farther apart, and their repulsive force diminished. In consequence of the great capabilities of gases for expanding with diminished pressure, the atmosphere, instead of being only about five miles in height, as it would be if of equal density with the lowest stratum, (7) is really upwards of fifty miles high.
The atmosphere is not only in a most delicate state of balance in respect to elasticity and pressure, but it is no less so in respect to the amount of heat contained in its different strata. ‘The expansive force of gases, or the repulsion which exists among their atoms, seems, as we have already stated, to be identical with heat. When air, at the temperature of freezing water, is condensed in the hollow globe of an air-gun, an immense amount of heat becomes sensible. 'Tinder, it is well known, can be lighted with a single stroke of a condensing syringe. In the rarefied gas a large amount of heat 13 stored away
and inappreciable by our instruments or senses, which is again given out*by compression.
The intimate connexion subsisting between heat and the expansion of gases is most beautifully seen in the atmosphere. As already stated, the atoms of air as we ascend are at greater distances from each other. If the distance between any two atoms is diminished, they give out heat or render it sensible; whereas, if we increase the distance between them, they store it away. ‘The upper strata are sensibly colder than the lower, not because the atoms have less heat, but because the heat is diffused through a larger space when the atoms are farther apart. One pound of air at the level of the sea, within the tropics, may be said to contain no more heat than the same weight at the top of the highest mountain perpetually covered with snow. It is for this reason that the same wind which is warm in the valley becomes colder as it ascends the sides of the mountain. The diminishing pressure allows the air to expand and store away its heat. It is, therefore, not the snow on the top of mountains which cools the air, but it is the rarity of the air which keeps the snow itself from melting. As a general law, the decrease of temperature amounts to 1° Fabrenheit for every 300 feet in perpendicular height.
A variation in the amount of heat affects the volume of a gas as sensibly as a variation in the pressure. An addition cf heat increases the repulsive force of the atoms, and thus expands the volume. All gases, reckoning from the freezing point of water, expand nearly the 480th part of their bulk for every degree of temperature ; or, in other words, if one cubic foot of air had its temperature raised 480° above the freezing point, its elastic force would be doubled, or it would tend to expand to twice its former bulk.
It a number of atoms of air in the lower stratum receives a greater amount of heat than those in the vicinity, they will repel each other to a greater distance apart than they were before they were heated, and will have a tendency to ascend, on the same principle that a piece of cork rises in water.
On these undisputed data Dalton founded his two famous conditions of atmospheric equilibrium, which are now regarded as the true basis

<<<Page: 450>>>

on which all atmospheric disturbances are to be studied. First, that the atmosphere can only remain in a state of rest or equilibrium when the barometer stands at the same height at the level of the sea in all parts of the globe, because the aerial envelope has a tendency like water to seek its equilibrium. Second, that the atmosphere must every where have the same temperature at the level of the sea, and that its various strata as we ascend must have a temperature corresponding to their positiou—that is, that every atom, from the top to the bottom of the atmosphere, must possess the same absolute amount of heat.
A number of natural agencies are at work to disturb the equilibrium of the atmosphere, and to give rise to aerial currents; among them the most important is the difference of temperature in different parts of the earth. The air within the tropics, constantly heated by the rays of an almost perpendicular sun, is rendered lighter, and is pushed upward by the heavier air north and south of this region. A current in this direction from each pole is thus produced at the surface of the earth, while an opposite current towards each pole is genergted by the rarefied air which rises above the heated belt, and fows backward like water seeking its equilibrium. ‘These currents, on account of the rotation of the earth, are not along the meridian, but those at the surface take a westerly direction, while those above flow in an easterly course. This is the origin of the trade winds at the surface of the ea:th, and of the great westerly current which is almost constantly moving in the upper strata over the middle and northern portions of the United States. That such a current does prevail over the regions mentioned is clearly proved by Professor Coffin’s admirable report on the winds of the northern hemisphere, published in the Smithsonian Contributions to Kuowledge. The phenomenon of the constancy of this upper current early attracted my notice in my tour through this country, and I learn from the records that it is the same all the year. The fact of the existence of this current is referred to by President Dwight, in his History of New England, to explain some atmospheric phenomena; and, indeed, it is one of the keys to a knowledge of the peculiarities of the meteorology of this country.
‘To understand some of the peculiar actions which occur in the lower strata of the atmosphere, it is necessary for us to consider a little more attentively the effect which sometimes takes place when a large area is slowly heated and the air above it gradually expanded. In this case the heated air, increasing its volume and resting on the surface of the earth, pushes up the air above it, and thus retains it in a state of unstable equilibrium. This condition was observed by the French savans as existing over the heated sand of the desert, and giving rise to the mirage. It was also observed by Colonel Sykes, on the plains of Hindostan, and is quite common in all latitudes.
‘Fhis is a very unstable condition of the atmosphere, and is constantly liable to be overturned ; yet its philosophy is not difficult to comprehend. When the atoms of air in the lower stratum are gradually and equally heated, all have a tendency to rise, and the cold atoms above have a tendency to descend. But as there is not room for all to descend and all to ascend at the same time, there is litthke downward or upward motion.

<<<Page: 451>>>

This is a very simple principle, but it is the only one which enables us to comprehend how a dead calm often exists immediately betore violent storms, and even before the tremendous hurricanes of the West India islands. A large amount of power is in this way held in reserve ready to be developed under various circumstances. We shall mention some phenomena as illustrations which are produced in this way.
The unstable condition of the air, which results from the undue heat of the lower stratum, produces those great whirlwinds of dust and sand in the deserts of Arabia and Africa. The air flows in beneath, and revolves as it ascends, carrying loose material with it. Humboldt, when crossing over the great plains of South America during the hot season, recorded a curious instance of the effect of the sun’s rays on the surface of the ground when the air was calm: ‘In the Mesa de Paja,” says that illustrious traveller, * we entered the basin of the Llanos. ‘The sun was almost at its zenith; the earth, wherever it appeared sterile and destitute of vegetation, was at the temperature of 86° to 90° F.; nota breath of wind was felt at the heightat which we were on our mules 3 yet in the midst of this apparent calm whirls of dust incessantly arose, driven on by these small currents of air which glide only over the surface of the ground, and are occasioned by the difference of temperature between the naked sand and the spots covered with grass.’’—(Personal Narrative, Vol. 1.) The land and the sea breezes observed in warm countries are caused by somewhat similar agencies. The land in the day time becomes heated to a much greater degree than the sea; the air over the former expands and flows away above, while the comparatively cold air from the sea rushes over the land. This is exactly reversed at night, the air over the sea being slightly warmer than over the land—the breeze is from the latter. All are agreed as to the general cause of this phenomenon, but I am inclined to think the particular mode of action has not received that attention which it deserves. As I shall have occasion to show that the action of the sea breeze in Great Britain apparently furnishes us with the true principle upon which certain violent disturbances sometimes take place over one half of Europe, I shall be a little particular in describing the exact mode of action. And I am not singular in opinion that a modification of the same principle applies to some of the storms of the United States. On a recent visit to Cuba I had an opportunity to study some well defined instances of land and sea breezes. I was particularly interested inthe former, because I was less familiar with them from personal observation; for while the sea breeze is Common in summer on the east coast of Scotland, the land breeze is very rare. Hugh Miller has given a description of the sea breeze in his work entitled “ My School and Schoolmasters,”’ as it occurs on the Cromarty coast, which is well worth a perusal by those who take an interest in such matters.
The particular summer sea breeze of North Britain, so far as I have had an opportufiity of observing, only occurs when an upper current is flowing trom a westerly quarter. This condition seems to be essential to itsaction. The breeze is always strongest on the coast, it gradually moderates as it passes into the interior, and finally dies away long before it reaches the west coast. The manner in which the sea breeze loses its force shows that it is gradually absorbed into the upper current,

<<<Page: 452>>>

and that it does not rise in one vertical column, but that there is a constant ascension and absorption going on over the whole extent agitated by the breeze. By way of exemplification, and to render my exposition more clear, I shall direct your attention to the action which takes place between soft and salt water, at the mouths of large rivers. Captain King observed a current of salt water running up the mouth of the Santa Cruz, beneath the fresh water. In this case we cannot for a moment imagine that the salt water rises in a body at any particular spot, and returns as salt water to the sea; but only that the salt under current 1s gradually absorbed into the fresh stream above, at every point as far as the salt water extends.
Now suppose the sea breeze has a depth of 2,000 feet, and extends 50 miles into the interior of the country; it will not rise in a vertical column of 2,000 feet in width, but will be gradually absorbed, by rising in small portions into the upper current along the whole distance traversed. The greater depth of salt water at the mouth of the river corresponds to the greater velocity of the air on reaching the land. The spot where the breeze is not felt has its counterpart in that point of the bed of the river where the salt water ceases to flow against the stream. ‘The deep upper current from the southwest, which overlies the shallow sea breeze, performs the part of the large body of fresh water of the river, to which the other phenomena are merely secondary. The power which propels the salt water up the bed of the river is the difference in the weight of the fresh and salt water. In the sea breeze, the air over the surface of the land is lighter than that over the sea at the same elevation; and it is this difference in the weight of the two columis of air which, in this case, is the propelling power. If the barometer was sufficiently delicate, the rate of motion of the breeze might be calculated with considerable precision.
The heat of the sun materially affects the force of the winds at the earth’s surface in all parts of the world. The still air of evening is well known to be in striking contrast with the breeze of midday. During the night the air cools more rapidly next the ground than at a greater elevation. The ascending currents cease with the heat of the sun, and friction soon induces a calm.
At the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science the year before last, I took occasion, in illustrating the action of one class of storms which agitate the atmosphere of Europe, to point out the fact that the sun, during the summer months, in North Britain, had the effect to reverse the motion of a thin stratum of air at the surface of the ground; while, during the day, a north current constantly flowed above and a south current flowed below, during the night the latter was reversed. I have found similar phenomena to prevail in the United States. For some days, in Charleston, last January, I observed that the wind was south during the heat of the day, and north inthe morning. I cannot stop now to discuss the cause of this phenomenon, though it is exceedingly interesting in a scientific point of view. But there is an analogous ettect produced, upon a grand scale, east of the Rocky mountains, over the United States, as well as the British Possessions, that requires to be noticed in this place. It has been most satisfactorily made out by Professor Coffin, that southerly winds, in North America, are much

<<<Page: 453>>>

more common in summer than in winter; the following are his reduc tions :
Between lat. 320 and 330, 9 stations, 8) J, N. winds, 3.06. —S. to W.S.W. 7.77 days. year’s average: S. Carolina, GeorJalvNcwinds. 1.83... S te WiS°W. lodie dase gia, Alabama, and Mississippi. Sane ie eG. j TT camera yes
Delaware, Maryland, and Eastern VirJan., N. winds, 2.81. —S. to W.S.W. 6.29 days. ginia. July, N. winds, 1.05 — 8S. to W.S.W. 13.00 days.
New England States south of latitude Jan., N. winds, 3.55. —S. to W.S.W. 6.60 days. 45°, 49 stations, 5 years. July, N. winds, 1.44. —S. to W.S.W. 15.74 days.
Between 450 and 50° latitude : Iowa, Jan., N. winds, 4.17. — 8S. to W.S.W. 5.73 days. Wisconsin, Michigan, Canada, and ( J). N. winds, 1.83. — S. to W.S.W. 10.77 days. Maine, 10 stations, 17 years.
Total north wind... vecccsceccccesssccs 19.74. Totalsouthwind. 76.06
IT quite concur in the opinion, first entertained by Volney, that the summer south winds of the United States are chiefly supplied from the trade winds of the tropics. To this wind is to be ascribed the amazing fertility of the climate for sugar, cotton, Indian corn, and tobacco. The isthmus which connects North and South America is too high to allow the trade winds to cross into the Pacific ocean; and in summer they appear to be frequently directed northwards by this great natural wall, and find their way across the Gulf of Mexico, and spread out as a surface current loaded with moisture over the Mississippi valley and the eastern seaboard States. If the isthmus which connects the two continents had been sufficiently low to allow the trade winds to cross into the Pacific, the valley of the Mississippi would have had, in all probability, a much less productive summer climate, resembling that of the south of Europe or the north of Africa.
I may here mention that there is only an extremely limited area in Europe which has sufficient summer rains, with the requisite temperature, to grow Indian corn, and that there are no cotton or sugar regions. The summers of Spain, except on the northwest of the country, are usually so very dry that little Indian corn can be grown without artificial watering. The productive powers of the soil are almost entirely centred in the valleys, which are irrigated by the melting of the snow of the mountains.
The summers of Italy are also too dry, and the melting of the snow on the Alps is essential to the fertility of Lombardy. The largest and best region for Indian corn in Europe is in the south and east of France. Mr. Marsh, in his introductory lecture here, told us that for three months rain did not fall in summer at Constantinople. In Palestine, ‘rain in summer”’ is still as rare as the ‘‘snow in harvest.” In the valley of the lower Nile, a shower of rain is a remarkable phenomenon; the overflowings of the river serve for the growth of wheat, but no Indian corn or millet can be had without laborious irrigation; accordingly, fifty thousand oxen are employed in summer to draw water for this purpose. In upper Egypt no crops of any kind are obtained without the same appliance ; and during a low current in the river the peasants are obliged to raise the water upwards of forty feet. When we reflect on these facts, the great fertility of the summer climate of North America, east of the Rocky Mountains, is very surprising. The aridity of the Mediterranean shores is owing to the prevalence of northerly winds; while the fertility of the United States is owing to the prevalence of those

<<<Page: 454>>>

a NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
from the south. This statement is amply supported by Professor Coffin’s researches in the Smithsonian Contributions.
The warm surface wind which sets in from the Gulf of Mexico over the United States, is not only the great source of fertility, but is also the great disturbing element of ‘the a atmosphere at all seasons of the year. During the warm season, in this country, when the wind changes to north or northwest, the sky becomes peculiarly transparent and blue in color. I have frequently had occasion, in my tour through Canada and the United States, to observe that the lower ‘south and southwest wind begins to blow, asin Great Britain, shortly after the sun heats the air at the surface of the ground, and that the sky soon loses its peculiar transparency. One point in regard to this surface wind from the south deserves special notice. I allude to the fact that it is often at rest or very sluggish during the night, and most active duriug the maximum heat of the “day = This wast Sart ace wind which spreads over the region east of the Roe ky Mountains, and over the Gulf of Mexico, is therefore daily put put in motion by the heat of the sun. The short time which I have been able to devote to this subject leads me to believe that the breeze begins to stir at an earlier hour in the day in the higher latitudes, and that it is gradually propagated to the south. ‘The sun rising earlier the farther we advance northward is probably the cause of this phenomenon.
Mr. Thom, in bis work on the *“* Nature and Course of Storms,” p255, informs us that south and southwest winds prevail during summer over the projecting shoulder of South America, at Guiana; and I was informed by the sugar-planters that in Cuba south winds are common during the rainy season, namely, May, June, July, and August. Mr. p helps, also, in a recent communication to the meteorological department of the Smithsonian Institution, mentions the fact that at Fort Brown, on the Rio Grande, the “prevailing winds are from the south, or probably a point or cwo to the east of south. This, he says, is more particularly the case during spring and the earlier part of summer, when they are usually pretty constant, especially durmg the day time, blowing at the rate of fourteen miles an hour, or five degrees of latitude per day. But Professor Coffin’s report, already alluded to, gives us the best view of this great aerial current, which flows over the Mississippi valley, as well as along the Atlantic slope.
The two great systems of atmospheric currents, viz: the lower and warm surface wind from the south, and the cold and dry current flowing constantly in the upper regions from the west, are intimately associated with all the changes of the weather in the United States. But before we attempt to trace the nature of these changes we must direct attention to another element of meteorology, which we have as yet almost left out of view, viz: the elastic and invisible vapor of water contained in the air, and which plays so important a part in almost all atmospheric changes.
Science, as we have seen, was long perplexed with the problem of the manner in which water existed in the air ; sometimes entirely invisible, at others obscuring the heaveus with clouds, or falling as rain or snow. For the solution of this question, we are also indebted to John Dalton, who gave an explanation of the matter, no less simple than consistent and ingenious. He at the same time opened up a new

<<<Page: 455>>>

view of the mechanism of mixed gases, gave us new ideas of the constitution of the atmosphere, and enabled us to comprehend the agency whieh ‘“ divides the waters of the firmament from the fountains of the deep.” The hygrometry of the atmosphere will be considered in our next lecture. ’

<<<Page: 456>>>

METEOROLOGY. ae
Second Lecture.
That water placed in an open vessel over a fire does not have its temperature raised above 212 degrees, however great the heat may be,
and that the steam produced is no warmer, is among the first of the
wonders which arrests the attention of the student entering upon the field of physical science. The heat of the fire is absorbed in the production of the steam. .The atoms of water are made to repel each other. A cubic inch of this liquid converted into steam at 212 degrees, at the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere, has its bulk increased nearly 1,700 times. The elasticity of the steam thus produced is equal to the weight of a perpendicular column of 30 inches of mercury. This must appear quite evident when we consider how steam is formed. It rises from the bottom of the vessel which contains the water, in bubbles, and can only be rapidly formed when the repulsion of the atoms is able to resist the whole weight of the incumbent atmosphere.
Dalton, however, discovered that vapor is formed at all temperatures; that the boiling point of water and the elasticity of the vapor are entirely regulated by heat and pressure. This he proved by allowing a small-quantity of water to ascend to the top of the mercury in a common barometer tube, where it produced vapor, the elasticity or pressure of which could be exactly measured by the height of the column, as the heat was increased or diminished. This simple experiment showed that the connexion between the temperature, density, and elasticity of steam is subject to the same physical law which regulates the density and elasticity of the permanent gases. The following exhibits a few cases of steam at different temperatures, with the corresponding force and weight :
Temp. 0°; force 0.068 in inches; weight of cubic foot, 0.856 grains.
20° + 0) 140 SS RS EOSe (KF 40° “(0280 es a ahzoo s. -S 60° 02560 a ts Gaze 2.7% 80° > F060 a as Bisa. 212° S30. 00 ee 20h ole. +
In fact, after allowing for the difference of the temperature in steam, according to the law which holds in reference to other gases, the pressure of steam at any low temperature being given, the weight of a cubic foot of steam can be calculated by the simple rule of proportion.

<<<Page: 457>>>

Steam or vapor, at all temperatures, may be considered as water containing a definite amount of heat. A pound of steam at 212° contains very little more caloric than a pound of vapor at 32°. This is proved by the fact that steam, at any temperature, when condensed, is capable of raising the temperature of its own weight of water more than 1,0009. If a cubic foot of steam at 32°, weighing 2.539 grains, were subjected to pressure, and none of the heat evolved during the condensation lost, a small volume of steam at 212° would be produced. But a cubic foot of steam at 32° could not exist in the atmosphere by itself, as it would be subjected to a pressure of 30 inches of mercury, whereas it could bear no more than one-fifth of an inch. Hence a difhculty arose amongst chemists in regard to the manner in which water existed in the invisible form in the atmosphere at all temperatures, and under all pressures. There was also some difficulty in accounting for the manner in which the mixture of the different gases took place.
It has been found that air brought down from the tops of the highest mountains, and from the greatest elevation reached by aeronauts, is nearly the same in composition as at the surface of the earth. This fact was rather perplexing, because the different gases of the atmosphere have not the same specific gravity. A cubic foot of oxygen weighed more than one of nitrogen, while one of carbonic acid was 50 per cent. heavier than either.
OAD RTO, Tees a ae pe Sell age VR Ng a 1.0000 WanponiG ACid aan a8 Ne on art Bates oleae 5 1.5240 1 NTU ROY. 5) 0 gel ER 2 ag i i oe me NRL 0.9760 CSA CES RBS tt SRT Oa ne Pig2
Steam 212°... .-.------2-----+----------0.6235
The carbonic acid being the heaviest gas, it should chiefly occupy the lower stratum of the atmosphere; and the nitrogen the top. Dalton, to reconcile a variety of phenomena with each other, added a new proposition to the theory of the atomic constitution of the mixed gases—namely, that the atoms of oxygen do not repel the atoms of nitrogen, but only those of their own kind. ‘That the one gas is asa vacuum to the other. On this principle the most complete mixture of gases is explained, the atoms of one gas by their mutual repulsion are forced apart as is in void space, and thus diffused among those of another. At the last lecture we mentioned that if this room were completely exhausted of air, and a cubic inch of hydrogen introduced, it would iustantly expand and fill the whole space. Now, the same thing would happen if a cubic inch of hydrogen were introduced into the room filled with air. The process would be much slower, but the mutual repulsion of the atoms of hydrogen would still be in as active Operation as it was in the vacuum, and would still cause them to separate until they pressed against the walls of the room with as much force as if there were no air in it.
Not only has the truth of this law been verified, but the diffusive ‘velocity of the various gases ascertained by actual measurement. This velocity is inversely as the density of the gases; in other words, the lighter the gas the greater its rapidity of diffusion. The vapor of Water, or steam, is subject to the same law; and this is the solution of
Mis. Doc. 24 13

<<<Page: 458>>>

the difficulty we mentioned as to its capability of existing in the atmosphere at all temperatures. In accordance with this law, the atoms of water, as well as those of the several gases which compose the atmosphere, are as far separate from the atoms of their own kind as they would be if each alone occupied the space. The pressure of the compound atmosphere is therefore made up of the joint pressures of the individual gases.
Strictly speaking, vapor is not condensed by the pressure of air, but by diminution of temperature ; andgee amount of moisture which can exist at any time in the atmosphere depends upon the amount of heat. Air saturated with moisture may be likened to a vessel filled with round shot or sand. ‘The spaces between the atoms of the permanent gases are occupied by the atoms of steam, in the same way as water fills up the vacant spaces between the shot or sand. The atoms of water are at a distance when steam at any temperature is by itself, and they can possess no greater repulsive force than is due to the temperature of the evaporating surface. Pressure applied to the atoms will cause condensation, if the heat aiising from this act is lost. This is the same in the moistest atmosphere—the atoms of water are at a distance, and their repulsive or diffusive force is the cause of their remaining invisible. Evaporation, therefore, in the atmosphere at a given temperature, can only take place when the atoms of water are removed as far from those on the evaporating surface as they would | be in pure steam at the same given temperature.
Air is said to be saturated with moisture when as many atoms of vapor are contained in it as would exist in a vacuum at the same temperature. The atoms of air merely fill up the interstices ot the elastic vapor of water, or the converse. If the temperature be diminished, the repulsion of the atoms will not be sufficient to support so great a pressure, and a part of the vapor will be condensed into water. The reduced temperature at which this condensation begins to take place is called the dew point, or point of precipitation.
The elastic force of vapor would ultimately cause it to rise to the | top of the atmosphere by virtue of this repulsive or diffusivé property, | | if it were not checked by other causes. At one time meteorologists attributed many atmospheric phenomena to the great activity of the | es power of the vapor of water; but we are indebted to Profes|
r Espy for showing that this has been very much overrated, and | Bier agents are the more active causes.
The air has its temperature raised during the day by the direct heat | from the sun and contact with the earth, and loses the greater part of | this heat during the night by radiation into space. ‘The ground radiat| ing heat much Haster than air in a Clear, calm night, is generally cooled | dawn below the point of precipitation of the vapor, and thus condensation of moisture is produced and dew formed. This effect of radia| tion has a most beneficial influence on vegetation. The formation of | | dew is regulated by a very simple law, viz: that the dewed surface ts always colder than the air in contact with it. In the same way the dew| point of the air is ascertained by cooling down any body until moisture | is formed upon it. Several hygrometers have been formed on this | principle.

<<<Page: 459>>>

The amount of moisture in the atmosphere has a great influence in modifying the heating power of the sun’s rays, as well as in the radiation of heat during the night into space. We often find two days in summer equally free from clouds and equally calm, while the one may be oppressively warm, and the other comparatively cool. This does not arise from a difference in the power of the sun’s rays, but from the quantity of moisture in the atmosphere.
The influence of moisture in tempering the sun’s rays is a remarkable fact and well worthy of father investigation. When the dew point is high, or, in other words, When the air is filled with moisture, the radiation from the earth is prevented, and the temperature of the night remains almost as high as that of the day; when the dew point is low, the sun’s rays pass, without absorption, to the earth, and impart little of their heat directly to the air. ‘The medium dew points are, therefore, most favorable to extreme heat in the atmosphere, and the greater heat beyond the tropics is probably owing to this cause.
The fact that the amount of moisture in the air regulates the temperature of the nights has not received the attention which it deserves. I shall hereafier show that the hygrometrical condition of the atmophere throws a very considerable amount of light on the action of North American and European storms; and therefore ] am more anxious to draw your particular attention to the relation between the dew point of the vapor of the air and the night temperatures, because this 1s the only means which I have of indicating the hygrometrical conditions connected with the storms of the United States. é
It seems to be a law which holds in general over the world that the temperature of the air at sunrise during calm nights, at a certain distance from the ground, falls a little below the dew point of the air during the preceding day. The mean temperature of the,air at sunrise, therefore, approximates very closely to the mean dew point. The great amount of moisture in the air within the tropics is the cause of the warm and brilliant nights. Radiation from the air and ground, under these conditions, seems to lose its power. On the other hand, travellers in all parts of the world inform us, incidentally, as to the connection between dry air and cold nights. Mr. Inglis, in his travels through Spain, relates that he was oppressed by the hot rays of the sun in the valley of Granada while the hoar frost was lying white in the shade. Eastern travellers in the deserts often complain of the broiling heat of the air during the day, and of its chill temperature at night. Beautiful ailusions to the same law are also found in Scripture; many of you will recollect that one of the greatest hardships which Jacob experienced while he tended Laban’s flocks was, that through the *«drought by day and the frosts by night sleep departed from his eyes.” On the other hand, the moisture from the Atlantic in summer allows the air to retain its heat in the valley of Chamouni, in Switzerland, so that grapes ripen in the immediate proximity of the glaciers which descend from the Alps. At Bergen, in Norway, the same element allows the cherry-tree to mature its fruit where you can pluck it and throw the stones upon the broad mass of ice which slowly descends from the mountains.
Those days during summer in the United States on which the sky

<<<Page: 460>>>

is very transparent are rather deficient in moisture. The air is then somewhat bracing, as the sun does not have the power of heating it up to a high degree. The great changes in the weather which take place at all seasons over the United States, and the very cold winters in comparision to those of Europe, are intimately associated with the hygrometiic condition of the atmosphere, which we must now consider.
Why are the winters so cold at Washington in the 38° of latitude;
the same as that of Lisbon, in Portdig@al, where the orange-trees are now in blossom? This is owing to the great prevalence of west and northwest winds, which are very dry, and sweep over the vast territory from Canada to Florida, and are converted into the northern of Cuba and the coast along the Gulf of Mexico. President Dwight, a most accurate observer, in his Travels and History of New England describes the character and effect of the winds so accurately, that I will quote two short passages. He says, ‘‘ In 1787 the west wind began to blow about the 20th November, and continued its progress ate only four short interruptions until the 20th of the following March—somewhat more than 100 days. During the whcle time the weather for the season was very cold.” Also, ‘‘in 1780 the wind blew from the west more than six weeks without any intermission, and during the whole of this time the weather was so cold that snow did not dissolve sufficiently to give drops from the southern eaves of houses.”” So long as the westerly Sth continues to blow in winter there is no cessation Of your cold, and so long as it continues to flow in a broad regular stream in summer there is no end to your drought. President Dwight maintains that the west and northwest wind is merely the descent of the upper current which flows so regularly right across the Rocky Mountains. Whoever will take the trouble to examine the meteorological observations within the Smithsonian Institution, I am inclined to think, will come to the same conclusion. If the south wind was as common in winter as in summer, and if there was no descent of this upper current, your winters might be as mild as those of Portugal, which are tempered by the moist said from the southern Atlantic.
The question naturally arises, why is the west wind so extremely cold? The answer is, simply, because in crossing the Rocky Mountains it is robbed of its moisture ; and becoming so dry that the sun pours down his rays of heat; in vain neither the air by day nor the ground by |
night can retain them; they fly off into space. The principle on which air is dried in passing over high mountams 1s a very simp.e one, if we merely bear in mind that air expands under diminished pressure and
becomes colder by the heat being diffused over a greater space. Pro|
fessor Espy has very ably investigated this subject on theoretical grounds. But, as our space is exceedingly limited, I shall merely adduce some examples by way of illustration. Mr. Walsh made an ascent in a balloon on the 26th August, 1852, from Kew Gardens, in England. ‘The barometer stood at 30 inches, and the dew point was 616; or, in other words, the air contamed 6,06 grains of water in every cubic foot. At the height of 18,570 feet the barometer stood at 15 inches, temperature of air 70, dew point 2°8, or equivalent to 0.8 grain
of water in a cubic foot. But at this elevation the air being expanded

<<<Page: 461>>>

by the diminished pressure, two cubic feet will only weigh about as much as one did at the surface of the earth. Two cubic feet, therefore, would contain 1.6 grains of water. Now, it will be evident, if this upper air was to descend to the surface of the earth, it would have its temperature raised by coming under increased pressure; but its dew point, as will be seen by inspecting a table, would be no higher than 23°, instead of 61°; the radiation during one night would, therefore, cool down the air at the surface of the earth to this temperature. The dry upper current coming over the Rocky Mountains often descends to the earth in winter, and is the cause of the severe weather at that season in the country east of these mountains. The great westerly current of air from the Pacific in passing over the Rocky Mountains, and in ascending their westerly slopes, becomes colder by expansion, and, consequently, deposits its moisture. It is true the heat lberated by the condensation of the vapor will tend to elevate the temperature of the air on the top and at the foot of the mountain above its nominal point; but this effect is counteracted, as we have said, by the increased freedom the dry air gives to the radiation of heat from the surface of the earth and the lower stratum of air, particularly when it is spread over a wide extent of radiating surface. The descent, therefore, of the dry and upper current of westerly winds to the surface of the earth is. I think, the principal cause of the sudden and extreme changes of weather in this clime. President Dwight states that in the month of July, 1804, considerable snow fell at Salem, in New England, and that a severe frost was experienced in different parts of the same country. In all parts of the world where moist winds, or those from the ocean, blow over high ranges of mountains, they deposit their moisture in the form of rain and snow on the windward slopes. This is the case on the coast range of Oregon and California, and also on the slopes opposite the prevailing moist winds in South America.
In England not more than 23 inches of water falls annually in some of the level eastern counties during the year, while nearly 200 inches occasionally fall on the western side of the mountains of Cumberland. The west wisds of Norway are remarkably mild and rainy for such a high latitude, while the same winds in Sweden are comparatively cold; the air, in losing its moisture on the high chain of mountains, loses its power of retaining the large amount of latent heat extricated by the condensation of vapor.
The production of cold through expansion is the cause of clouds resting on the tops of mountains when they should apparently be borne away on the breeze. The precipitation of vapor as the air rises on the one side, and the evaporation of it as the air descends on the other, is the true cause of the phenomenon. ‘The formation of clouds in the sky and precipitation of moisture are chiefly produced, as Mr. Espy has demonstrated, by the ascent of comparatively moist and warm air from below. ‘The expansion produces cold, and of course the precipitation of moisture into clouds and rain. The cumulus clouds of summer are thus formed by ascending currents of moist air. The condensation of the vapor extricates a large amount of latent heat, which expands the air within the cloud, and thus produces an increased buoyancy. Before thunder-storms the air is usually moist and oppressive, the perspiration from the skin is checked by the moisture, and

<<<Page: 462>>>

feels warmer on this account than it really is. The temperature within this cloud being higher than that on the outside in consequence of the evolution of latent heat, the passage of a thunder-cloud over any place almost invariably disturbs the air at the surface of the ground. The extrication of heat is a motive power which constantly causes the air to ascend in the front of the storm as the cloud drifts along in the upper current. Squalls are produced in the same way. Professor Espy, in his Report on Meteorology, says : ‘*Low clouds are constantly forming in the front of squalls by the upward motion of the moist air as fast as their hinder parts are swept down by the falling rain, and thus they appear constantly just in front of the ‘squall, for ae is only in front that there is an up-moving column of air from below.”
We shall enter a little more particularly into this subject, to show the analogy between these isolated disturbances arising from the formation of cloud and precipitation of rai and the land and sea breezes, hurricanes of the West India islands, thunder storms of America and Europe, and also some of the great snow and rain storms of both continents.
In Humboldt’s celebrated voyage from Europe to South America he relates that, on reaching the tari es of the trades, the ‘‘ wind fell gradually the further we receded from the African coast ; it was sometimes smooth water for several hours, and these short calms were regularly interrupted. Black, thick clouds, marked by strong outlines, rose in the east, and it seemed as if a squall would have forced us to haul our top-sails; but the breeze freshened anew, there fell large drops of rain, and the storm dispersed. Meanwhile it was curious to observe the effects of several black, isolated, and very low clouds which passed the zenith. We felt the force of the wind augment or diminish progressively according as small bodies of vesicular vapor approached or receded. It is “by the help of these squalls, which alternate with dead calms, that the passage from the Canary islands to the Antilles or southern coast of America is made in the months of June and July.”
From this description we gather that there was an upper current prevailing from the east, in which the clouds drifted, bearing them over the calm air resting on the ocean. The air in front of the cloud is disturbed as soon as the cloud approaches, and a violent squall prevails so long as it is overhead.. This shows the intimate connexion between the upper and lower currents of the atmosphere when clouds are passing.
Unless clouds were constantly replenished by vapor from below, it is physically impossible that they could continue to throw down such great quantities of rain over long tracts of country as they are sometimes known to do. At no time, even within the tropics, is “the air over one spot capable of precipitating more than three inches of rain.
In the squalls described by Humboldt we observe that there was calm both before and after the passage of the cloud. ‘The motion of the air at the surface of the sea is much the same as if the whole portion of it under the cloud were in a state of vertical rotation around a horizontal axis. You will perceive that there is a resemblance in the motion of the air under isolated storm-clouds to that of the air in land

<<<Page: 463>>>

and sea breezes. The latent caloric evolved by the condensation ot vapor is the moving power in this class of phenomena, and the difference between the temperature of the land and the sea is the disturbing force in the other. I have frequently attempted to show that many ot the European storms were to be ascribed to a modification of these principles. Since reaching Washington it has been pointed out to me by Professor Henry that Professor Mitchell, of North Carolina, gave in Silliman’s Journal a similar explanation of some of the American storms as far back as 1831. I had never seen this paper, and was a little surprised to find so great a similarity in our views, more especially as he had actually selected the same passages I have quoted from Humboldt as a common starting-point. But I have since found that Volney more than half a century ago accounts for one American snowstorm on the same principle.
I must, in the first place, draw your attention to a feature which appears to be common to the hurricanes of the West India Islands, and to the local squalls in the region of the trade winds, viz: that there is usually a calm before these terrific disturbances of the atmosphere. All who have examined these meteors are of opinion that the current above is from the southeast, aud bears the hurricane clouds over the still and highly heated air; this being surcharged with moisture is in a most unstable state of equilibrium, which is liable to be overturned by the slightest cause that conspires to produce an up-moving volumn of air. ‘To illustrate this I will merely read to you Captain Marryatt’s graphic description of the coming on of a West Indian hurricane as given in ‘Peter Simple:” ‘What a hot day this has been; not a cat’s paw upon the water, and the sky all of a mist. Only look at the sun, how he goes down, puffed out to three times his size, as if he were in a terrible passion. I suspect we shall have a land breeze off strong. The heat was excessive and unaccountable, not the slightest breath of wind moved in the heavens or below; no clouds to be seen, and the stars were obscured by a sort of mist: there appeared a total stagnation in the elements. We had not pulled long before a low moaning was heard in the atmosphere, now here, now there, and we appeared to be pulling through solid darkness; I looked, and dark as it was, it appeared as if a sort of black wall was sweeping along right towards us. The moaning gradually increased to a stunning roar, and then at once it broke upon us with a noise to which no thunder can bear comparison. The sea was perfectly level, but boiling and covered with a white foam, so that we appeared in the night to be floating on milk.”
Professor Mitchell, in the paper to which I have already referred, expresses the opinion that thunder storms must be much less grand and imposing in Europe than in America, because poets have not considered them worthy of particular attention. Shakspeare, however, has not neglected our thunder storms, and with his usual philosophical discrimination has portrayed some of their more important peculiarities:
‘* We often see, against some storm, A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still, The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
As hush as death : anon the dreadful thunder Doth rend the region.’’—Hamlet.
The formation and progress of thunder storms are very peculiar in

<<<Page: 464>>>

this country. We have already alluded to the frequency of south and southwest winds over the United States in summer. These currents, derived, as we have said, from the trade winds of the tropics, contain a large amount of moisture, and are the source of the great fertility of the Mississippi valley. Extensive rains and thunder storms only occur after the south wind has prevailed for some time. I am inclined to believe that this vast aerial current, which flows below the upper westerly current, is much deeper in the southern than in the northern States. Mr. Phelps’s observations, near the mouth of the Rio Grande, show that in his district the thunder clouds drift in the southeast current; and I have been informed that they follow the same direction in Louisiana and Alabama. But in the higher latitudes, as for example that of Washington, the thunder clouds all move in the direction of the upper current from a point or two north or south of west. The moisture which forms these clouds is no doubt derived from the lower stratum, whose upper surface is exposed to the erosion of the upper current, constantly sweeping a portion away towards the Atlantic. The action of the lower moist current rising into the upper and forming cloud, and perhaps part of the upper descending, is no doubt the principal propelling power of the surface wind. President Dwight gives a very good description of the thunder storms of New England, and refers to points which should be specially borne in mind. On one occasion he says: ‘The meridional line upon which I stood was crossed by the storm several miles to the south. During the whole day the wind had blown from the south, and continued to blow in the same direction on the surface throughout the afternoon, without a moment’s intermission. But had the wind,” says he, ‘which carried the cloud when it passed over the meridian swept the surface, the wind for a time, at least, must have been entirely stopped. This, however, was not the fact even for a moment.’ On another occasion, in 1809, a ‘‘thunder storm passed over New Haven, from the northwest, with great rapidity. It continued, as I judge, from an hour to an hour and a half. But though the clouds moved rapidly to the southeast, a southwest wind blew the whole of that day and while the thunder storm was overhead with great violence.”
The increase in the strength of the southwest wind, as the clouds drifted overhead from the northwest, shows that the lower and upper currents mixed together; that as in the case of the squall mentioned by Humboldt, a part of the lower stratum of air rising formed cloud, and that a part of the upper stratum descending to the earth was carried away by the prevailing surface wind from the southwest. This propelling power, I think, cannot be doubted in thunder storms; but I imagine the same principle must be taken into account as a source of motion to the southwest surface winds whenever clouds form in the sky and drift in the upper current. Thunder squalls drifting from the west, as I am also informed by Professor Espy, often draw in the stratum of air from the east immediately above the earth’s surface; while the falling rain under the clouds forces the air outwards towards the east, and it rises immediately before the rain, carrying up dust and other materials. A slight westerly breeze then usually springs up and follows the cloud just a little in the rear.
In fact, from the very irregular nature of the winds of the lower

<<<Page: 465>>>

stratum, we must in general look for a local cause of propulsion, on the same principle that the motion of the air at the surface of the earth, during the day in summer, with clear and dry weather, is constantly varied by the heat of the sun at every spot over which the breeze passes. As soon as the warm southerly wind begins to blow as a general surface current over the United States, the conditions necessary to the production of a storm already exist. The southerly wind, often veering about very irregularly, will then frequently continue in the same direction, until the whole country from the Gulf of Mexico to Canada is covered with a comparatively hot and moist stratum of air. Under these circumstances a crisis must ensue, when the upper current from the Rocky Mountains resumes its sway at the surface of the earth. In winter it often sweeps the stratum of moist air from over the United States into the Atlantic, and completely changes the character of the weather in a very short time. In summer the changes are generally much less marked; for Professor Coffin’s researches show that the northerly winds then lose their power. At this season the process usually takes place in a gradual manner. Thunder clouds, drifting in the upper current, as described by Professor Dwight, shower down their watery contents over the land, and thus enable Indian corn to be successfully cultivated over a surface of country vastly greater than in any other part of the world. How these effects are brought about, involves the whole question of the action of storms east of the Rocky Mountains. We shall leave, however, the further discussion of this for the present, and conclude this lecture by one example, showing the scale upon which thunder storms are sometimes developed much about the same time over a vast area of country. I am only sorry that my time has not permitted me to analyze this storm in all its details.
During the first days of last September the wind was mostly from the south ; the weather became excessively hot and oppressive ; the newspapers in all parts of the country were recording the high temperatures ; when, on the 6th, thunder storms took place nearly simultaneously in Jowa, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, East and West Canada, and the New England States. Large quantities of rain fell in various parts of the country, as the storms were in several places somewhat locally developed. At some points the northwest upper current reached the surface of the earth for a time, the southwest wind again blowing as before, until a general change of wind to the northwest prevailed, and caused a great fall in the temperature. At Saratoga the thermometer stood at 96° in the shade on the afternoon of the 6th, and at 46° on the morning of the 9th at Rochester. It is a fact worthy of attention that a severe storm, amounting to a hurricane, swept the southeastern coast of the United States just about the time that this great change was taking place in the north and west. It is certainly well worthy the investigation of American meteorologists to ascertain Whether any connexion exists between the weather in the northwestern States and the hurricanes of the West Indian islands, for in this instance the coincidence of phenomena was quite remarkable. As will be seen from our next lecture, great changes occurring in the northwest are rapidly propagated to the southeast in the case of winter storms.

<<<Page: 466>>>

Third Lecture.
When northwest winds prevail over the United States in winter, the air is very dry and cold; so long as the wind remains in this quarter there is no termination to the cold weather. It does not moderate, at least the thermometer does not rise, until the moisture is increased. I suppose it is admitted by meteorologists that the cold spells of weather in the United States are first felt in the west and northwest, and gradually extend over the country to the southeast. This direction, it will be observed, corresponds very nearly with the course of the current, which is so constant in the upper stratum of the atmosphere in this region. But it is a curious fact, well worthy of the attention of meteorologists, that the warm and moist surface air which precedes storms and cold weather travels also from northwest to southeast; at all events, it apparently does so. Sometimes a belt of moist air, several hundred miles in breadth, and extending from the mouth of the Mississippi to the lakes, and probably much further north, seems to advance from the west, while there is very cold weather both behind and in front of it. The storms of February, 1842, described by Professor Loomis in the Transactions ef the American Philosophical Society, were of this character. On the morning of the 10th November last, similar phenomena were presented: the eastern portion of the Mississippi valley, and all the States south of the lakes and west of the Alleghany range, were under the influence of a comparatively moist and warm stratum of air, at the very moment that the temperature was about 20° lower from latitude 35° to 45° on the Atlantic seaboard, and between the same parallel of latitude in the western States west of longitude 92°. By the night of the 10th November, the weather became very moist and warm in the Atlantic seaboard States, more so than it had been in Ohio the previous day.
The moisture which was found in the broad band could not originally have come from the west, northwest, or north, because these winds are always exceedingly dry; nor could it have come from the Atlantic ocean, because the weather remains cold on the coasts when it is much warmer in Ohio. Indeed the storm was at hand before the east wind set in, and this isausual occurrence. There can be but little doubt, therefore, that this moisture is originally derived from the Gulf of Mexico, and that it is spread over the middle and eastern portion of the United Siates by the southerly current, which, as we have before remarked, is, in our opinion, a deflected portion of the trade winds.
In a former lecture, I pointed out the fact, abundantly proved by Professor Coffin, that these southerly winds prevail more in swmmer than in winter ; and animportant point here suggests itself for future discussion. I think it very probable that a broad band of southerly winds,

<<<Page: 467>>>

extending across the country from Florida to Texas, may flow northward and eradually diffuse itself as a surface current over the valley of the Mississippi and the seaboard States. The sun heating the earth more at the north, during the longer days, assists in the propulsion of this current. The higher portions of this lower current are in contact with the under surface of the cold upper current from the west, and in the mingling of the two the moisture of the former is precipitated into clouds or rain. In some cases the lower current may thus be gradually absorbed into the upper one, and this action may take place over a considerable portion of the country, producing an extended cloudiness and rhaps a general fall of rain without violent atmospheric disturbance.
In winter, the propulsion of the southerly winds is not favored by the heat of the sun; at this season, therefore, they do not extend to so great a breadth as in summer, and only flow over the northern regions in streams, forming narrow belts of warm and moist air, to which we have just adverted. This warm current is often bounded by cold air, on the east and the west. The cold air on both sides is‘ drifting from west to east, the warm current between (flowing from south and southwest) is also carried laterally to the east; and hence, the moist and warm weather of winter has an apparent motion fromm west to cast.
Our inquiries relative to this point lead us to believe that the south and southwest winds in winter may begin to blow over Texas and the high ground a little to the east of the slopes of the Rocky Mountains, and cause a rise of temperature to the west of the Mississippi, when the northwest wind is still blowing dry, cold, and clear, over the whole of the middle and eastern States.
This, however, does not continue long; the west, northwest, and north winds soon descend between the western edge of the southern current and the mountains, and gradually force the former eastwards. On these occasions the north or northwest wind is the predominant one, which, rushing along the slopes of the mountains to the south, forms the well known northers from Vera Cruz to Cuba. According to this view, the norther should be felt sooner at the former place than at the latter. This much is certain, that almost every cold spell of weather which is experienced in the United States during winter is propagated to Cuba in the form of a norther, which, though the thermometer seldom sinks it below 55° at sunrise, is disagreeably felt by the inhabitants of the island.*
* Since this lecture was written, I have had occasion to examine an interesting series of ‘* Queries and Strictures,’’ by Dr. Hare, in regard to Mr. Espy’s Meteorological Report. The view which we have taken of the northers in the Gulf of Mexico will, as far as it goes, answer in the affirmative Dr. Hare’s 20th query, page 5:
‘* Whether northers are not consequent to the displacement of the warmer air lying on the Gulf by the colder air of the territory of the;United States north or northeast (northwest?) of the Gulf, to whatever cause that displacement may be due?”’
Among the number of interesting points suggested by Dr. Hare for discussion, an answer to the following queries we consider would contribute much to the advancement of the meteorology of the United States :
** Sth. Wherefore, in one of Mr. Espy’s generalizations, he alleges that storms travel from west towards the east during the five winter months, instead of alleging that they travel from northwest to southeast, consistently with the observations of Loomis, above mentioned?”
““7th. Whether there is not another distinct kind of storm, long known and universally recognised as the ‘ northeaster,’ or ‘northeastern gale,’ which has been distinguished from the southeaster, so called by its direction, its longer endurance, lesser violence, and by its not being usually followed, after a brief lull, by a northwester, nor any violent wind ina direction directly opposite to that in which it blew at the beginning of the storm?’

<<<Page: 468>>>

On no question has there been more discussion among meteorologists than thatin regard to the cause of the fluctuations in the height of the barometer, especially during storms. John Dalton made the following remarks on this subject more than sixty years ago; and they are well worthy of consideration in the present day, particularly since we possess better opportunities of ascertaining their truth:
1. “The barometer,” says Dalton, ‘has little variation within the tropics; while within the northern temperate zone, and doubtless within the southern also, its range increases in going from the equator. The mean annual range at Paris, for twenty years, was 13 inches; the greatest range, or difference between the highest and lowest observations, for the same term, was 2 inches. At Kendal, the mean range for five years was 2.13 inches, the greatest range was 2.65 inches. In Sweden and Russia the range is still greater.
2. “In the temperate zones the range and fluctuations of the barometer are always greater in winter than in summer.
3. ‘The rise and fall of the barometer are not local, or confined to a small district of country, but extend over a considerable part of the globe, a space of two or three thousand miles in circuit, at least.
4. “It appears that the mean state of the barometer is rather lower than higher in winter than in summer, though a stratum of air on the earth’s surface always weighs more in the former season than the latter.
5. “F. Laval made observations for ten days together upon the top of St. Pilen, a mountain near Marseilles, which is 960 yards high, and found that when the barometer varied 2? lines at Marseilles it varied 1? inches upon St. Pilen. Now had it been a law that the whole atmosphere rises and falls with the barometer, the fluctuations in any elevated barometer would be to those of another barometer below it nearly as the absolute heights of the mercurial column in each, which in these instances were far from being so. Hence, then, it may be inferred that the fluctuations of the barometer are occasioned chiefly by a variation in the density of the lower regions of the air, and not by an alternate elevation and depression of the whole superincumbent atmosphere.”
I am quite aware that some of the deductions of Dalton require to be a little modified. His first proposition, however, that the range of the barometer increases in going from the equator towards the poles, is amply borne out as a general law by observations in this country as well as in Europe.
His fifth proposition is also correct, viz: that the fluctuations of the barometer are occasioned chiefly by a variation in the density of the lower regions of the air, and not by changes in the whole superincumbent atmosphere. To illustrate this, I will state a hypothetical case. In the balloon ascent made by Mr. Walsh, alluded to in a previous lecture, it was found that the barometer stood at 15 inches at the height of 18,370 feet. If the whole air below this elevation had been occupied by hydrogen gas, which is much lighter than common air, being only about one fifteenth of its weight at the same pressure, this lighter gas, possessing as much elasticity as common air, would be able to bear up the upper stratum of the atmosphere, weighing 15 inches of mercury; but at the surface of the earth the barometer would fall

<<<Page: 469>>>

about 14 inches below its ordinary height. Now it is easily seen that if the warm and light wind from the southward, which blows with so much regularity in summer, were as light as hydrogen gas, with the same elasticity, it would cause an immense fall of the barometer along the whole of the Mississippi valley when it displaced the cold air which has come over the Rocky Mountains. The southerly winds from the Gulf of Mexico are much warmer and lighter than those which have poured down the eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains, and been cooled by radiation on the plains to the east. Consequently when they displace these colder winds in the valley of the Mississippi, a fall of the barometer ought, to a certain extent, to take place. I am, therefore, of the opinion that the fact of the displacement of the warm and moist current from the Gulf by the colder air from the west and northwest is sufficient to account for the fluctuations of the barometer, in a great many instances, in places to the west of the Alleghany chain of mountains.
Professor Espy informs me that he has traced a central line of minimum pressure, which precedes the eastern storms on the Atlantic coast first in the western States. This line is of great length from north to south; and from an examination of his charts of the weather, in his Report on Meteorology, I was at once struck with the fact that its direction corresponds with the trough of the Mississippi valley, and with the course of the moist winds from the Gulf of Mexico. In Europe, I have often been enabled to trace the connexion between the fluctuations of the barometer and changes in the temperature and moisture of the air; but I have never found the connexions so regular and intimate as in the Mississippi valley, which is more removed from influences which tend to disturb this action.
In my last lecture I showed that the temperature of the air at sunrise is, as a general rule, a close approximation to the dew point. A high dew point, or, in other words, a large amount of vapor, has the effect, as we have before said, of maintaining the warmth of the air during the night.
The observations collected by the Smithsonian Institution give the temperature at 7, a. M., and 9, p.m. As arise or fall in the temperature at these hours may be considered as indicating an increase or decrease in the amount of moisture in the air, and as the fluctuations of the barometer are also given for the same hours, I have, therefore, in the diagrams, shown the connexion which exists between the heat and moisture of the air and the changes in the pressure.
I have compared the temperature taken at 7, a. M., and 9, Pp. M., leaving out the day temperature altogether. The temperature at these hours, as I have stated, is a close approximation to the dew point. And this fact, which, as a general rule, holds true, especially in autumn, is the only means I possess to ascertain the hygrometrical state of the air during the storms of this country. The amount of vapor is an essential element in the investigation of atmospheric disturbances, and hence even an approximate estimate of the quantity is important.

<<<Page: 470>>>

The following curves of temperature and pressure of the atmosphere for 7, A. M., and 9, p. m., from the 7th to the 16th of November inclusive, are intended to illustrate the connexion between the moisture, temperature, and pressure, during a storm :
No. 1—Curve of temperature and pressure for Tuscaloosa, Alabama. intel 33° 12’ N.; Longitude 87° 12’ W.
camellia} ta E
Wind. sz. 0 NE. E. NE. SE. SE. 0 &F
No. 2—Curve of temperature and pressure for New Weid, Texas. Latitude 29° 42’ N.; Longitude 97° 0' W.
No. 3—Curve of temperature and pressure for Milwaukie, Wisconsin. Latitude 430 3 N.; Longitude 87° 57' W.

<<<Page: 471>>>

No. 4—Curve of temperature and pressure for Steuben, Washington county, Maine. Latitude 44° 44' N.; Longitude 679 50' W. : nT any 9 LO) PO a 12 isi yy hae 15 16
BSESSBEesesse WPAN D OOF bd OO
an Zeal | wah ii Ey a : | | ut = | | Led | | fee a (217 eal Wad. sz. E. NW. NW. NW. NW. NW. SW. SW. SE. SW. s. Ss. Sw. SW. W. NE. NE. NE. NE,
The continuous line represents the changes of the barometer, and the dotted line those of the thermometer. The figures on the left-hand margin of the wood-cut indicate heights of the barometer in intervals of one-tenth of an inch, and those on the right hand side, of the thermometer in intervals of five degrees of Fahrenheit’s scale.
The figures along the upper margin indicate the days of the month during which the storm continued, and the letters along the lower the direction of the wind during the same time.
In order to exhibit more strikingly the relation of the temperature, moisture, and pressure, the dotted line is inverted so as to represent the highest point of the thermometer by the lowest point of the curve. With this arrangement the two curves in the first three figures are nearly parallel, showing that in the middle regions of the United States the abnormal depressions of the barometer are attended with a rise in the thermometer and consequently an increase of moisture, while im the eastern States, as illustrated by figure 4, the result is almost entirely opposite—the increase of temperature is accompanied with a rise in the barometer.
If we suppose that a south wind, of 10,000 feet in height, with a temperature of 70°, occupies the Mississippi valley, and the upper current from the west flows across its surface, in ordinary circumstances this stratum of air would weigh a little more than nine inches of mercury. Now, if we further suppose a cold northwest wind, having its dew point or morning temperature down to 30°, to displace the warmer current, by crowding it to the east and occupying its place, as ten thousand feet of air at this low temperature weighs 1-12th more, or 2 inch of mercury, this denser and colder column will cause a rise in the barometer to that extent. Now, if a decrease of temperature of 40° causes a rise of # inch of mercury, a decrease of 5° would cause a rise of nearly 1-10th inch. This effect would be produced without taking into account the changes which might take place during storms in the upper strata of the atmosphere.
I have compared the fluctuations of the barometer at 7, a. M., and 9, Pp. M., with the changes in the temperature at these hours from the 7th to 16th November last, in the States of Maine, Vermont, New York, Michigan, Wisconsin, North Carolina, Kentucky, Missouri, Kast Florida, Alabama, Texas, and also at Washington. By making 5° of temper

<<<Page: 472>>>

ature correspond with 1-10th inch of mercury in the barometer, I find some very interesting results are brought out. In all the States south and west of the Alleghany range, the parallelism between the changes in the barometer and the changes in temperature are much greater than I anticipated. See figures Nos. 1, 2 and 3.
Some remarkable exceptions, however, occur, in which a rise of temperature is accompanied with a rise of the barometer. These exceptions are found to the east of the Alleghanies and the mountains of New England, where the curves of temperature and pressure of the air entirely lose the regularity which they possess in the southern and western States. The changes of the barometer before storms in the northeastern States appear to be very peculiar, at least I am acquainted with nothing like them in Europe. When the mercury rises a little above 30 inches in Great Britain, the index of the barometer points to “set fair,” and an eastern storm rarely comes on before the mercury begins to sink. When the mercury is above 30 inches in Maine, during winter or autumn, a storm is often at hand, and the barometer does not fall before the weather gets colder and drier. An examination of the weather, from the 7th to 16th November’ last, (see figure 4,) apparently shows that the indications of the barometer, as a weather prophet, must be interpreted by a contrary rule to that which is observed in the western States and in England. The probable cause of this will be afterwards adverted to. I shall now proceed to give you an account of a general storm, which will serve to illustrate the principles I have stated :
The weather on the 12th November, 1854, presented a curious picture of extremes over the United States. The northwest wind was advancing like an extended wall, from Iowa to Texas, and clearing the whole country of its moisture. By looking at the following table of temperature for that day, we shall see the progress which it had made at the time mentioned:
lowa;; Poultney: fags aos sors oe. eee UO Ay Sane Wasconsins; Madisonrys G22) fs tae tote 1995 23 cc Missotnn, St. aLOwiSsis dpe .o'heo shee cee 202. doc 6 Migstecuppl,, Omiord. oo. Sie eee pios = 34°, ..29, Pp. M. PexasNew Weed.) x22 uke eerie DOOR 6c
On the morning of the 12th the first killing frost was felt in Louisiana, and over Michigan, the northern parts of Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio, the ground was covered for the first time with snow. In these States the northwest wind was flowing beneath the colder edges of the southwest stream from the Gulf, forcing it to ascend and precipitate part of its | moisture in the form of snow. As the under current rose it was caught by the upper current, and, as in the case of thunder storms, it was swept off towards the east. This at least seemed to be the process at Indianapolis, where, on the 12th, four inches of dry snow fell, while the lower wind from the north and northwest was overlaid by a current bearing clouds from the southwest. On the morning of the 13th, at the same place, the wind set in from the west.
On looking at the meteorological chart for the morning of the 12th, we perceive at a glance that the temperature gradually rises from Iowa to Maine, from Missouri to Savannah, and from Texas to Florida. The

<<<Page: 473>>>

eastern seaboard States now experienced the southwest stream of moist and hot air—hotter and moister than it was in the west, because while this moveable current is gradually borne to the east its temperature is higher from having been blowing longer from a warmer quarter—on the same principle that an ordinary south wind in summer is warmer the second day it blows than on the first. ‘The temperatures on the east coast are in very striking contrast to what they are on the west of the Mississippi.
Florida, wind SW., temperature 709, rainy. Savannah, 6h. SK. sé 64°, rainy. North Carolina, Thornbury, ‘“ E., “ 60°, rainy. Washington, : co SWS, re 489, rainy. New York, co. WINE: se 53°, rainy. Maine, Steuben, c 6USW.., at 54°, rainy.
The weather remained moist and warm on the 13th in the Atlantic States, but the cold air was rapidly advancing from the northwest. By the morning of the 14th it had swept the whole of the southwest current into the Atlantic and brought cold and clear weather. In Florida the temperature of 70° on the morning of the 12th was changed to the freezing by the 14th; frosts also occurred on the same day in Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and New York. It is worthy of observation that at the very time the northwest wind was making its cold felt from Florida to New York, the soath wind, or a modification of it, had already set in over ‘Texas, and raised the temperature 15°, and its influence was afterwards also felt as far north as St. Louis, in Missouri. ‘This was merely the first stage of preparation for another atmospheric disturbance which was to run a similar course.
Suniking changes in the temperature of the weather are produced in autumn by the colder wind from the west descending and bearing the moister stream before it; when this hot stream is extended along the Atlantic coast it in all probability becomes the vehicle of the hurricanes which proceed from the West Indian islands. A severe hurricane, having its course along the Florida coast, desolated the rice grounds on the Charles and Savannah rivers on the 8th September last; but a thunder storm, extending over the greater portion of the northern States, began on the 6th and travelled from northwest to southeast, causing a great atmospheric disturbance and lowering of the temperature.
We have only space to say a few words on the barometer during the storm of the 12th. Though rain and snow fell over an immense area that day, and the wind blew with great force in the Atlantic States, still the barometer was above the mean in the morning from Maine, in the east, to Wisconsin, in the west. In this section it is probable that the northwest current, overlying the whole storm, did not sweep away the ascending moist currents with sulficient rapidity, and hence the accumulation of air causing the barometer to rise before storms on the east coast. ‘The Alleghany range must, so far, favor this accumulation by retarding or hindering the freer action of the winds from the west. When the air has a high temperature in summer, the increased pressure before storms is, I believe, not so much observed. In this storm, also,
Mis. Duc. 24——14

<<<Page: 474>>>

I find no traces of accumulation of air in Florida, where the curves ot pressure and moisture coincide very accurately, as much so as they do throughout the Mississippi valley. The following reductions exhibit the state of the barometer over three sections of the United States. The figures show the difference of the pressure above or below the mean for the month, in hundredths of an inch:
First Section.
1: [22 ha ee FLO pa Sony 14 Nae +. .23 inches. Wermmomb 3 55's. o< Die 2 ial See an bo BER 2 ee New, Vorketstate).<''" over Sea ce oe ei Macinsen ta. > 2's \42 DOC aE iar ee iat | a + 16 * WISCONSIN. ae i.) Sain ee ee a Epes aie . Second Section. North; Carolitia: zea at 7a am eos bok Q mean. Kentucky2e 62.4. 2: BE hs » pS yal Tone nrg cr i Baek — .17 inches. MISSOUFD.OL 2. Sh. CON Paes 2 RUE lg told Din ogee Third Section. Waste lOrida san Sen) Ab yaaa hla eke cues — .18 inches. WS ay 6: RR OREN DIR BOLTS MCL Omllgapbets ea ant ae le ee WEN AS. ate ted We Be ies cada ae er eS Se
During the weather from the 7th to the 16th of November, the fluctuations of the barometer in the southern and western States do not seem to have been greater than could be ascribed to the changes of temperature. The great fall of the barometer in tropical storms, and the tornadoes of the United States, seem to me to admit of no other explanation than that given by Professor Espy, viz: an inward ascending column of air becoming much lighter from the extrication of latent caloric.
In regard to the winds, during the progress of this storm, only two systems are well developed. The northwest winds, on the 10th, were observed both in the rear and front, while the southwest current occupied the middle. The east wind is so partially developed, that we must regard it merely as an eddy in the more general system which embraces it. We cannot expect to find much regularity in the course of any set of winds, because this can only take place with an invariable temperature. Inequality of local temperature is the principal cause of the irregularity of the arrows which represent the direction of the wind on the meteorological chart.
On the 12th, the weather was very wet and stormy along the Atlantic States, and much rain also fell in the Ohio valley. Snow fell over a considerable area immediately to the south of the lakes.
We shall now very briefly trace the peculiarities of the weather and storms of Europe. The east wind very seldom blows over a large area of the United States, unless during storms. In northern Europe the case is very different: dry and cold winds are very common in spring, and, at this season, not only is the surface wind from the east, but the current in the higher regions is also from the same quarter. It usually bears cirrous clouds, thus showing the great height to which it extends in the atmosphere. So long as the east wind blows as an

<<<Page: 475>>>

undivided current in winter, the weather is intensely cold in England. Coming over ranges of mountains and a long stretch of land, it is something like the west wind of the United States—as long as it is continuous, the cold is unabated; when the same wind prevails in summer the whole country is parched with drought; but when the surface east wind is overlaid by a current from the southwest, then the east wind becomes excessively wet and disagreeable. An east wind in Scotland is very rarely stormy either in summer or autumn, unless it has an upper current from the southwest. This upper current from the ocean supplies the moisture which is precipitated by the lower wind. After long periods of dry summer weather in Scotland, the barometer begins to fall several days before the rain storm comes on. The first symptoms of change are, usually, cirrous clouds floating in the upper regions of the atmosphere, and indicating a greater saturation going on above. Cumulous clouds at length form, and drift from southwest to northeast, often directly against the lower wind. A thunder storm begins the rainy season; and so long as the upper current continues, the east wind is rainy or moist.
The fall of the barometer, it would appear, arises from a warm and moist stratum of air taking the place of a colder one above; on the same principle as a moister and warmer one depresses the barometer in the Mississippi valley. For this reason the barometer is very much consulted as an indicator of changes in the weather in Great Britain.
The summer rain-storms often extend over a large area in Europe. I have traced the northeast wind blowing, as a broad current, from the Alps to the south of Scotland, while rain was falling over the greater part of this space.
The winter storms are also regulated by the same principles. When there is no upper current from the west, the east wind remains dry and cold; but when the southwest upper current begins to blow, it becomes wet and stormy, and almost all the great falls of snow in winter take place under these conditions. The barometer does not give as long a warning of an approaching storm in winter as it does in summer, but there is invariably a fall in the mercury betore the storm comeson. To illustrate the character of our winter storms the following example is given:
During the month of December, 1853, the wind was, in general, east in England, not only at the surface of the ground but at great elevations in the atmosphere. The barometer was high and steady for that winter month. The rivers from the north to the south of the island were more ice-bound than they had been for 15 years.
On the Ist of January, 1854, the weather was very cold over Great Britain, as well as the northwest of Europe. There was no storm that day, and the temperature of the air did not differ much from Sandwich, in Orkney, to Brussels, in Belgium.
Temperature.
Wind. Max. Min. Sandwich Manse, Orkney .........2--Nites Saha, tk 2s 28°‘ » (28 Peelemmeese Wife: ioe 2 ee SY ie IND cho Se os we O4O 12° Michfeld, Nottingham: 2. Geo WIN icc cctcles we 32° 14°
Liverggele Lancashire. 32. ee DONIWWicds wtwiva he. a 36° = 27°

<<<Page: 476>>>

Holkham, Norfolk... 22.2.. Eiecatlsv stam ite’ tg Wie» ee LBBOr= QH° Helsten,;Cormwall sae 3! s et ortate NA: > eee Ajo 34° SujAubiny Jersey ate aero ek Sul eer ak INI ee .05° 32° Viersailles;th ranean: © shee dnt eee Souk NW calor eee 320° 240 bnussels; Berens Heke els ei ee SW, calm 222290 240 FelgolandwOenmaen Yds Lode ea et N., stormy . --
A disturbing element was, however, after a short time introduced ;
at Jersey the wind set in from the westsouthwest on the morning of
the 2d, and a thaw commenced ; the wind was high from this quarter at night, with heavy rain. A current also set in from the southwest, both at Versailles and Brussels, with snow falling more or less during the whole day. At Helsten, near Land’s End in Cornwall, the wind was northeast, and 7-10th inch rain fell in the night; but it 1s quite evident that this rain, thrown down by the northeast wind, must have been derived from the upper current from the southwest, as the air still remained dry and frosty at Bath, on the west, and at Holkham, on the east. This supposition is rendered highly probable, from the fact that the upper stratam of clouds was from the southwest. It was some time before the storm was developed in the eastern counties.
The wind seems to have begun to blow very briskly from an easterly quarter over the south of England on the 3d, with much snow at night. An inch of rain fell that day in Jersey, with a squally wind from the east. The temperature remained low and the sky clear in Scotland and the north of England. ‘The wind was from an easterly quarter that day at Paris, Brussels, and off the coast of Denmark. ‘The southwest upper current, still prevailing, saturated the air all over England and the south of Scotland, and a violent storm of snow on the 4th was the result, which extended over a large portion of the west of Europe, the wind being easterly at almost all the different stations. It is curious to observe that no snow or rain fell at Helsten, near Land’s End, on the Ath, the point to which all the wind on the east coast was blown ; which shows that it must have been absorbed in some way before reaching the west coast. In Scotland the wind, on the 4th of January, was quite as violent as in the south of England; but very little snow fell on the eastern coast. A deep snow fell, with a strong northeast wind, at the temperature of 32°. The wind was excessively cold and dry in Aberdeen, being as low as + 9° max. —6° min. The upper curren: had not influenced it sufficiently to raise the thermometer above these low temperatures. During this very low temperature in Aberdeenshire, the northeast wind was about 23° higher in Belfast. ‘This difference of temperature is vastly greater than in the case of a sea breeze, and might alone account for the violent gale on the Irish coast.
The disturbance of the equilibrium of the atmosphere in this and our other winter storms seems to be occasioned, first, by a flowing away of part of the cold upper current, and a warmer and lighter air taking its place; and, second, by the denser air below flowing towards the warm and moist air over the ocean, which causes the saturated air to rise to a greater elevation, and condense its moisture. The condensed vapor, by the extrication of its caloric, favors ascending currents, which are gradually absorbed into the upper current and carried towards the earth. I have already mentioned that no snow or rain fell at Land’s End

<<<Page: 477>>>

while the day was nearly calm, and at the same time a violent hurricane, with much snow, was apparently blowing right towards this very locality. But this case exactly resembles the action of the sea breeze— the northeast wind being gradually absorbed into the upper current along the whole area over which it blows. ‘The warming influence of the southwest upper current is well illustrated by the fact, stated to me by Mr. Moyle, that snow did not cover the ground for an hour last winter, though much fell with the northeast wind not far to the eastward of his place.
Though the storm had begun at Heligoland on the afternoon of the 5th, it did not reach Aberdeenshire on the 4th. The northeast winds were quite dry beyond this county; and the sky at Sandwich, in Orkney, was bright, and the air quite calm. Notwithstanding the prevalence of the easterly winds, we find that the temperature is advanced from west to east, especially along the western coast of Europe; and on the 6th, the upper current seems to have so completely worn away the lower current, that the wind was from the southwest on that day from Cornwall to Belgium. But in the north of England and over Scotland the lower current increased in depth, and for a time checked the warm upper current, or drove it back, and restored cold weather. All places under the influence of the southwest wind had their temperature raised, while those under the northeast had it depressed. This will be shown by the following table of temperature and direction of the wind:
Helsten, S.W. minimum 36° Orkney E. minimum23$° Jersey, S.S. W. ‘6 38° Aberdeen calm et 10° Paris, S. W. 6 30° ~=Fifeshire E. 6 30° Brussels, S. W. a 34° Liverpool Seite vee 30°
This may be taken as an example of our eastern storms. They are preceded by a fall of the barometer, but the manner in which they terminate has nothing of that regularity which distinguishes your storms. Very often the southwest wind blows as a deep current, and produces moist and warm weather in the depth of winter. ‘The lower eastern wind, which is often very stormy, must be regarded as a mere surface stream, which is usually absorbed by the deeper upper current.
Now, I think it is very probable that an action similar to that of our northeastern storms 1s sometimes developed over the United States and in Canada. While I was sailing down the St. Lawrence, in the beginning of last October, a strong head wind prevailed from the northeast, at the same time that the clouds at no great height were drifting from the southwest. At Quebec, I also observed the satne phenomenon; ,and, according to Professor Mitchell, of North Carolina, northeast storms are sometimes developed over large portions of the United States when the clouds are from the opposite quarter. 1 have had no opportunities since I have been in this country to examine the northeast rain storms, which appear to be more frequent in the New England States than to the south. But I suspect we must always bear in mind that an upper current flows from the west quarter even when the lower northeast wind and middle southwest current are prevailing.
There is another class of storms of very common occurrence in Great

<<<Page: 478>>>

Britain, during the continuance of which there are very rarely any east winds. There is also this peculiarity about them, that they seldom give warning of their approach by any fall in the barometer; mdeed, it often shows a pressure above the mean just before they commence. The wind springs up from the southwest, and blows as a broad stream over the whole island, and in almost all these storms an upper current prevails from the northwest, which descends before the termination of the disturbance, and at once brings cold and dry weather. This particular form of atmospheric disturbance occurs at all seasons of the year, sometimes as a very gentle breeze, and often as storms of the most violent character. The changes of the wind are from southwest to northwest, crossing due west at once, and at this time blowing with their greatest violence. But our limits forbid us to enter further into this subject.
In the course of these lectures it has been my wish to state as clearly and distinctly as possible the general principles on which nearly all meteorologists are agreed, and to avoid, as far as might be, the discussions of points in reference to which there is less harmony of opinion. I have been anxious to place before you what I consider to be the distinctive features of the storms of North America and of Europe. I am quite aware that the topic would have furnished materials for a much greater number of lectures, but a mere outline was all that could be: properly attempted in the time allotted. Ihave presented the phenomena in the connexion in which they now represent themselves to my mind. I may, however, have reason to modify my present views of American storms when I have found leisure to arrange and discuss: more thoroughly the ample materials I have collected in my tour. But, whatever may be the change in this respect, I shall always retain a lively and constant impression of the kindness, the hospitality, and the liberality which I have everywhere met with in my travels through this. favored land..

<<<Page: 479>>>

As an appendix to Mr. Russell’s lectures, we give the following tables, showing the mean diurnal variations of the temperature, moisture, pressure, &c., of the air. The principal series are trom observations made at Greenwich, near London, under the direction of Mr. Glaishier. The tables for Bombay are from the observations of Dr. Buist, those for Philadelphia are from the valuable series made under the direction of Professor Bache at Girard College.
By a comparison of the quantities given, it will be seen that all the changes are connected with and depend upon the position of the sun in the heavens, or, in other words, upon the amount of solar heat received at the different hours of the day. The numbers given in the series for Greenwich are deduced from the observations continued for several years, comprising more than 20,000 individual records, and, therefore, abnormal variations are eliminated, and the special changes due to constant causes are exhibited in their true values.
Table I gives the mean diurnal variation of the temperature of the air in the shade at intervals of two hours, from 2 o’clock in the morning until the end of the 24 hours. It will be seen by this table that on the average the coldest period of the day is a little before sunrise, and that the temperature of the air remains nearly stationary from about 4 o’clock until near 6 o’clock in the morning, that it then gradually rises until 2 p. m., when it reaches its maximum, and then declines. The first rays of the sun are probably expended in vaporizing the dew and moisture at the surface of the earth, and as this process renders a large portion of heat latent the air does not increase very rapidly in temperature.
| | I, | 10 a. M.|/NOOoN. 2 p. M./4 p. m6 p.M.S8p.M.|10 Pe. m. |L2N1GnT.
| | | |
450 4! | 440 8’ | 449 8'| 4609'| 50° 4' | 530 6'| 55° 1’ | 540 5! | 520 3’ | 49° 5! | 470 5! | 460 3' | | | | | Minimum. Maximum. TABLE II.
Qa..l4a. m6 A. m.(8 a.M.10 4. M. eee 6 p. M./4p. M.|6 p. M./8 P. M.| 10 p. Mm. {L2NIGHT.
| | al | es GR.
| GR. GR. | GR. | GR. cr. | GR. GR. GR. GR. GR. GR. 3.52 | 3.49 | 3.51 | 3.64 SENOS oS | BYR AMIE Jat otal Paes sea ae kes Se 3.63 3.58 +
Minimum. Maximum.
_ Table No. II gives the mean diurnal variation of the absolute weight in grains of moisture in a cubic foot of the air, as determined by a

<<<Page: 480>>>

series of calculations from the record of the observations of the wet and dry bulb thermometer.
It will be seen by a comparison of table No. If with table No. I that as the temperature increases, the amount of water which exists in the air as vapor also increases. The two elements heat and moisture mutually influence each other as to the quantity present in the atmosphere at a given time. With an increase of elevation of the sun above the horizon its rays pass to the earth through the atmosphere less obliquely and impinge more perpendicularly on the surface. This produces an increased amount of vapor, with an increased elastic force, which enables the air in turn to absorb and retain a larger quantity of heat.
The maximum quantity of moisture Is at2p. m. The increase in weight is from about 34 grains to near 4 grains.
This table, however, does not give the amount of vapor which the air could hold if sufficient moisture were present to entirely saturate it. Indeed the air is very seldom fully saturated, and in order to begin to precipitate the vapor it contains into water, it is generally necessary to lower the temperature quite a number of degrees. The point of temperature at which the moisture begins to settle—for example, on the surface of a bright tin cup partly filled with water which is slowly cooled down by gradually adding ice water—is called the dew point. The greater number of degrees the water is obliged to be lowered before dew begins to be deposited, or the greater the difference between the temperature of the air and the dew point the greater is the dryness of the air, or the greater is the tendency of vapor to exhale from the skin and from all bodies containing moisture.
Table No. ' |
Minimum. Maximum.
If we subtract the numbers in this table from those in Table No. 1, we shall have approximately the relative dryness, or evaporating power of the air; this is given in No. IV.
l I |
6a.M./S a.m.
2a.m. |44.M. 10 a.m.|Noon.|2pP.M.|/4 e.M.|/6 p.m.) 8 e.m.| 10 ep.mM.|12NIGHT
5° 2! | 70.4!
20 3! “eo 19 9' | 20 9'
Minimum. Maximum.

<<<Page: 481>>>

From this it appears that the minimum dryness or greatest dampness of the air also occurs at four o’clock in the morning, and the maximum dryness at two o’clock in the afternoon.
The degree of humidity, however, of the air, may be more definitely expressed by the result of a more laborious process, namely, by dividing the weight of water in the air at a given time by the whole quantity the air could hold if it were saturated. By making the necessary calculation, and considering the point of saturation as unity, we shall have the following table :
Reid cy pentae Sibel De i a =
Da.m. |4a.m./64.mM./8a.m.] 10 a.M.] NOON pdr le 6 P.M. orm P.M. ae $$ | | | — — —__—_
0.926 10.934 0.938 | 0.906 0.843 | 0.783 0.753| 0.761 0.800| 0.851 Rea 0.914 | | |
Maximum. Minimum.
When the quantity of water is in the least degree greater than the atmosphere can contain at a given temperature, condensation takes place, which may be either in the form of fogs or dew in the lower strata or clouds, and rain in the upper. The formation of clouds will therefore depend on the amount of moisture in the atmosphere. This is shown by
| 10 p. ie NIGHT.|
Qa.m. | 4a.m./64a.m./8a.m./104.m.|Noon.|2P.M./47P.M.|}6P.™M.|8 P.M.
Maximum. Minimum.
The actual weight of a given portion of the air is also affected by the variation of temperature. This is shown in the following table, in which the minimum of weight occurs at the hour of maximum temperature.
| | | 2a.m.|4a.m [6 a.m./8 a.m./10 a. mM. Noon.|2 p. M./4 vp. M./6 Pp. m./8 P.M.j10 &. m./12NIGuT.
Gr. | Gr. | Gr. | Gr. Gr. Gr. | Gr. | Gr. | Gr. | Gr. | Gr. Gr. 541.7) 542.2] 542.9) 540.1) 536.3 | 532.9) 531.0 531.5 533.9 537.2) 539.4 540.6
Maximum, Minimum.

<<<Page: 482>>>

The next table, which gives the variation of the barometer, shows that the indications of this instrument are not precisely the same as those obtained by actually weighing a portion of air. The table exhibits two maxima and two minima in the course of the twenty-four hours.
| | Qa.m./4 a. M./6 a. M./8 a. ant A. M.! NOON.|2 Pp. aM P. m.6 P. “ile p.M.|10 pe. m.J12NIGHT.
Minimum. Maximum. Minimum. Maximum.
At first sight, it might appear that the weight and pressure, or in other words the density and pressure, ought to vary together, but a little reflection will make it plain that an increase of pressure on a portion of the surface of the earth may be counteracted by a variation of temperature. The height of the barometer indicates the weight of a column of air, extending to the top of the atmosphere; now, this column may be unduly heated at one point, as we ascend, and unduly cooled at another, and while the absolute weight of a portion of the air at any point of the column may vary, the pressure of the whole column may remain the same, or the converse. It is probable, however, that the variation of the weight which is found at the surface does not extend to a great elevation, and that when it is not indicated by the barometer it is because the change is too small to be noted by that instrument.
The fact that the barometer exhibits two maxima and two minima in the course of the twenty-four hours has given rise to much speculation as to its cause. The most common explanation is, that it is due to the joint action of the variation of the temperature and moisture. In the morning, the moisture rising into the atmosphere increases the weight of the air more than the heat diminishes it by expansion, while at about ten o’clock, a. m., the effect of heat overbalances that of vapor, and again as the sun begins to decline, the weight of the latter predominates. Mr. Espy attributes the daily oscillations of the barometer
to the upward and downward motion of the particles of air and moist-.
ure as they are separated or approximated by the change of temperature. The particles weigh more while the rate of separation is increasing, and less while it is diminishing. This is a true cause, but we are not certain that it is a sufficient one. Whatever may be the cause of the daily oscillations of the barometer, we know the effect is nearly the same in parts of the earth most widely separated.
The diurnal variation of the pressure of the wind is also intimately connected with the variation of the temperature and weight of the air; this is shown by the following table, which gives the sums of the pres

<<<Page: 483>>>

sure upon a square foot in pounds avoirdupois at each hour of the 24. The numbers are those given by Osler’s self-registering anemometer. TABLE IX.
| | 1 a.M.|2a.mM./3 A.M. iid Pl waa | A.M.
8 a.m./9 A.M.|10 a. M. | 11 a.m.) wooNn.
| | | | | 5853 | 6503 | 781 | 9063 | 1.0082 | 1.204! | 1.360
Minimum.
Sp.m./9p.Mm.| 10 Pe. M.} 11 Pe. m. |12 NIGHT.
| | | . lp. M.|2 P.M. 3p.M.|4P.mM./5 P.M./6P.M./7 P.M. '
| | |
Maximum.
For the purpose of comparison, and to illustrate the fact that the diurnal variations of the meteorological elements follow the same general law in the parts of the earth the most widely separated, the following tables are given from observations made at Bombay:
2 A.M.|4 ra Ga.mM.|/8a.m.| 104. M. | Noon. 2p.M.|4P.M./6P. 18 p.m./ 10 p. Mm. (12 NiGHT. { | | | | — 799 4' | 789 9’ |780 4' | 799 6' | 819 8 | 830 2" | 840 1’ | 830 9’ ia 3’ | 819 2’ | 80° 3! 79° 8) | | Minimum. Maximum.
The minimum temperature in this table occurs at 6 a. m., and the maximum at 2 p. m.
D2 a.u./4a.m./6a.M./8 4.™. 10 4. M. | Noon.|2 P.M. ia heeeh 8 p.m.) 10 Pr. mu. 12xton2.
\ ey a a a
0.766 |0.761/0.750/ 0.766) 0.771 |0.778| 0.795 | 0.800
0.802|0.801! 0.780 | 0.775
| | \
Minimum. Maximum.

<<<Page: 484>>>

According to this table the tension or elastic force of vapor at Bombay arrives at its minimum at 6 a. m., and its maximum not until 6 p. m. his difference in the-time of the maximum and minumum at Bombay and Greenwich probably arises from the tropical position of the former.
Qa.m.l4a.m.}64.M./8a.m.| 104. mM.) Noon. |2P.M.)4e.M.)6p.m.18 p.m.) 10 Pp. wm. |L2nreHT.
| a ere reese ek eee seed ee | |
Tn. In. In. Inge Ine In. In. In. In. In. In. In. 99 . 786129 .778/29 .805|29.840) 29.852 29.817/29.776)29 .755/29.774/29 .806} 29.825 | 29.809 | Winisnar, Maximum. ~Minimum. Maximum.
This table exhibits, as in the case of that for Greenwich, two maxtima and two minima.
The following tables exhibit the mean diurnal variations in the meteorological elements at Girard College, Philadelphia. They present the result of the observations for each hour of the 24.
Computed from the observations made in 1842, and from the Ist July, 1843, to the Ist July, 1845.
Lla.m.i2 a.M.\3 4. M.J4 4. M./5 a.M.I6 A. M.|7 A. 5 a.M./9 a.m.| 10 a.m.|/11 a.m.] NOON.
46.6 | 47.0 18.1 | 80. 52.1 | 54.1 55.7 56.8
48.2 | 47.8 | 47.3 | 46.8 |
Minimum.
1] p.m. 12 Ni@uHT.
2p.M.|3 P. eld P.M. 10 ep. Mm.
41.4 | 42.0 | 42.9
41.1
41.4 | 41.1
42.0 | 41.7
Minimum.
1p. m./2 p..j3 Pp. M./4 Pp. M./5 Pp. M.|6 P. M.|7 Pp. M./3 Pp. M./9 P. m.| 10 P.M.
42.9
~ Maximum.
The variations of the figures, in table XIV and table III, also follow the same general law.
Computed from the observations made from July 1, 1843, to July 1, 1845.
Sarid 10 a.m.} 1] a. M.! Noon.
La.m.j24.M./3 A.M.
{ 4a.m./54a.mM./6 acM.| PN n. 8a.M. |
Minimum.
6p.m.|7pP.m./8p.M./9 Pe. m.] 10 p.m. | lip. mw. (12 nicur.
Llp. u.j2p.m.J3pP.mM.)4P.M./5 P.M.
Maximum.
From table XV, it does not appear that Mr. Russell’s rule, for ascertaining the dew point from the minimum temperature, holds true in Philadelphia. Table No. IV, gives a much nearer approximation, . and, in moist seasons, the same will probably be the case in this country, particularly at the south. By comparing the quantities given» in table No. XV, with those in table No. IV, it will be seen that the relative dryness of Philadelphia is much greater than that of London.
or Greenwich.

<<<Page: 485>>>

Computed from the observations made in 1842, and from July 1, 1843, to July 1, 1845.
6a. M.
la.m.|2a.m.|3a.M.|4a.M./5a4.M. Ta.M.|8a.M.|9a. M.
10a. Mm. Us M.| NOON.
344 | .341 | .334 | .335 33 | 206 | 09 dol 339, .363 | «365 369
Minimum.
le. M.|2P. M.! lap. M.|4P.M./5P.M.) 6P. M.| TP. M. \Sp.m./9P. M. | 10P. M.|11 Pp. Mm. /12 nicHT. ARE OE pes eo ey ae es Sie ae | | | | | } 371 | 315+|. 376 | 7 376 | 376 | 372 | 364 | 308 | 353 300 348 | | | Mastinntn:
Computed from the observations made in 1842, and from July 1, 1843, to July 1, 1845.
la.m.|2. am.) 3a.m./5a.M.{64.M.) 7a.m.|8a.m.|9a.m.| 10 a.m.) ll a.m.| Noon.
| | eS
29 .938)/29. ih 933/29 .935/29 .941/29 951/29. ae -966/29 .969| 29.967 | 29.958 | 29.944
Minimum. Maximum.
lp.m.|2p.mM.|/3P.M.| 4P.M.] 5p.mM.|6P.m.| 7p.M.| 8pP.m.| 9p.m.| 10a. m.| 11 a.m. [12 nreuT.
29). sme. 916/29 .910/29 909/29 .911/29 .918/29 .927/29. aoe 29.946 | 29.949 | 29.941
+ Minimum. Maximum.
Table XVII shows two maxima and two minima in the height of the
barometer, which correspond very nearly in time with oo of table VIII for Greenwich.

<<<Page: 486>>>

Computed from the observations made in 1843 and 1844.
{ | Ne m.12 A.M.|3 a.M./4 a.M./5 a.M./6 A. M.|7 a.M./8 A.M.\9 a. M.| 10 a.m. | 114.m.} Noon. eo) oe eee SOOM eo 52 | .53 | sol AT 47 56 64 -80 | 88 98 | Maximum. Minsenum, | EMG | | | | | | lpe.m.j2 Pp. M.\3 Pp. M.|4 Pp. M./5 P. alk P.M.|7 P. ik P. si p.M.| 10 p.m. | ll p.m. |12 nicut.| 10201), 03/1103 98 .82 | «bil | .59 .50 | Bills] 52 .50 | at «| + gi ay } : | ib | | Maximum. Minimum.
Table XVIII, compared with table IX, exhibits a greater mean pres-
sure of the wind at Greenwich than at Philadelphia.
The maximum
intensity, during the whole 24 hours is, in both tables, at 2 P.M.
Computed from the observations made from the Ist July, 1843, to Ist July, 1845.
9a.m.| 10a.m.| 11 a.m. | Noon.
9 p.Mm.| 10e.m. | ll P.M. 12 sicHT.)
<63 |
| La.m.|/2 a.m |3 a.M./4 a. MP A.M.|6 a. M.|7 A. M./8 A.M.60 .61 -61 -65 | -70 74 79 | 86 | | | Minimum. 1 p.m.|2 p.M.|3 Pp. M./4 P. "9 P. m6 P. m7 P.M./8 P. Me RIOT (ie eal (PI 7 | g3 89 =| 8 3 80 | 74 |* .69 | | | Maximum.
Tables XIX and VI exhibit nearly the same variation in the time
_ of greatest and least cloudiness at Greenwich and Philadelphia.

<<<Page: 487>>>

On Mr. John Wise’s observations and inferences respecting the phenomena of a thunder storm, to which he was exposed during an aerial voyage, made by means of a balloon, June 3, 1852, from Portsmouth, Ohio.
1. I have read with great interest the account published by Mr. Wise, a well known zronaut, of his balloon ascension during a thunder storm. ‘This heroic excursion should awaken much attention in the scientific world, as opening a new and fruitful avenue to meteorological research in the immediate theatre of the stormy commotions of the atmosphere. ‘The query ‘‘ Cw bono?” can no longer be reasonably put to those who, like Wise, have been thought unwisely to have subjected themselves to risk in the sterile field of zronautic adventure.
2. ‘The fact that this zrial voyage is the one hundred and thirty-first of those of which this veteran wronaut has survived the perils, indicates that they have not been so perilous in reality as in appearance ; nor, so far as can be judged from the facts furnished by Wise’s letter, does the unusual circumstance of a cotemporaneous thunder storm appear to add to the danger. Moreover, this practically safe result is just such as an attentive consultation of the well ascertained laws of electricity would justify. It is quite consistent with those laws that the zronaut, seated in his car, suspended by silken cords from a silken globe, should be more secure than persons simultaneously situated on terra firma beneath the clouds by which the balloon is surrounded. Supported as described, in the non-conducting air, by a non-conducting apparatus, an animal must be too well insulated to become the means of an electrical discharge, whether from the clouds to the earth, or

<<<Page: 488>>>

from one cloud to another. Neither the diameter nor length of the human frame would be sufficiently great, in proportion to Hs interval to be percurred, to cause a dischar ge of lightning to deviate much from any route which it otherwise would pursue, iu “order tc employ that frame as a part of its circuit in the discharge.
3. There would be more risk of suffering by a dynamic inductive shock. This shock is exemplified when persons are stunned while near one who is directly struck. Yet while enveloped in a thunder cloud, the wronaut could not be injured by any discharge, whether be-tween that cloud and another or between it and the earth.
4, The most intense electrical excitement, as imparted by a powerful’ machine to an animal supported by an insulated stool, produces no serious discomfort, so long as no spark is taken from any particular spot. The destructive wiolenee of electricity is only displayed during transition, as When a comparatively slender ‘body 3 is made the mein of reciprocal neutralization to oppositely excited surfaces.
5. Under this view of the case, it is to be hoped that Mr. Wise may prove the pioneer in a new career of observation, and that encouraged and instructed by his example, a succession of scientific observers may visit the region of clouds during thunder gusts and gales.
6. The greatest source of danger i is the violence of the winds, which when high must make it difficult to quit the terrestrial surface, or to descend | upon it with safety. The velocity of the wind, however great, would have no more influence upon a balloon floating in it aloft, cavers the orbitual movement of our planet upon the Hodies resting upon its
surface. _ 7. As, agreeably to the narrative of Mr. Wise, the ascension com-menced at hhalf-past five;.p. m., it is inconceivable how a landing could have been effected at nearly one hundred miles from the place of starting, especially as in the fifth paragraph of his synopsis he alleges that he was in the margin of the third storm noticed, tw enty-five minutes. It is to be presumed tWat there is anerratum as respects the time, either of the commencement or of the termination of his voyage.
8. Presuming, however, that the observations of Mr. Wise are vee able as respects certain phenomena which bear upon the theory of storms, I will endeavor to show that they are quite consistent with the idea that electricity is a principal agent in the generation of storms. | 9. Mr. Wise gives the following synopsis of the observations made during his aerial voyage:
“Ist. Thunder storms have two plates of clouds; the upper of these discharging the contents, whatever they may be, whether rain, hail, or /snow, into the lower.
) 2d. Sheet lightning, of an orange color, undulates silently between the upper and lower strate of clouds, with a waving motion.
__ “3d. Discharges of electricity take place from the lower cloud. By discharges are meant thunder and lightning.
_. “4th. The distance between the upper and lower cloud was not less ‘than two thousand feet, by eye measurement.
“8th. The current uprising from the terrestrial surface was not :
Mis. Doc. 24

<<<Page: 489>>>

continued higher than the lower cloud, and was rising and whirling, while I was in the margin of the storm, during twenty Ue minutes.
“6th. The storm was much wider below than above and diverging at least twenty-five degrees from a perpendicular line.
“7th. The deposition of rain and hail was thicker about the centre of the storm.
“* 8th. Under the shadow of the upper cloud it is very cold, and in the lower cloud quite warm. The upper cloud was moved by the current which always moves from west to east.’
To these allegations Mr. Wise might have added the fullowing, as they are merely a repetition of facts alleged in his narration:
9th. A balloon, instead of being borne ahead by the current of air in which it floats, may be so approximated to the cloud as to be involved in the ‘outskirts of its rain,” and be made to “rock by its whirling motion.”
10th. A third cloud may be formed by the rushing together of two others, seen previously in opposite quarters, and remote from each other.
ilth. The gas in a balloon may be so acted upon by the electric medium around it, as to acquire an augmentation of volume equivalent to calorific expansion.
10. The existence of two “plates,” or strata, of clouds, as stated in paragraph Ist of the above sy nopsis, I have for some time considered as the usual concomitant of rainy weather. When, agreeably to the observations of Dalton, on w hic h Es spy founded his theory of storms, the vapor in an ascending mass of air is condensed, by the rarifaction and consequent increase a Mir ific capacity, which the air acquires on allanng the elevated region usually occupied by the clouds, this increase of capacity enables it to rob the aqueous vapor associated with it of heat; but by these means becoming warmer than if this vapor were not present, it consequently acquires an ascensional power; but by admixture with a larger portion of air,the warmth and moisture are again absorbed in the state of vapor, so that the clouds thus created below a certain level are reabsorbed at a higher level, producing a cold proportionally as great as the heat resulting from its condensation. This may be railed the level of absorption, ae the level at which they are “created may be called the level of condensation. Between these levels the clouds, in fine weather, seem to float as if they were persistent, when, in reality, they are no more of this character than the fog which surmounts the escape-pipe of a steam-boiler when letting off steam.
1]. Yet the moisture which escapes from permanent condensation at the first level at which this process takes place, by reaching a higher level, may be a second time condensed, by which a second stratum of clouds, as much colder as the associated air is rarer, may be generated. The process of reabsorption which had previously taken place i immediately above the lower stratum, can now only take place immediately above the upper stratum, and, in consequence of the greater refrigeration, must proceed with proportionally less rapidity. Consequently the

<<<Page: 490>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. paps |
absorption now no longer compensates for the condensation, and the excess must be precipitated as rain, hail, or snow.
12. That the upper stratum should be colder than the lower one, as alleged in the synopsis, is explained: first, by the difference of the altitude; ; secondly, the evaporation going on from the upper one must rob it of heat by a process from which the other stratum is protected by its presence; thirdly, radiation by the same superiority of altitude goes on copiously from the PPPS stratum, while this, by its interposition, “checks radiation from the lower stratum.
13. The formation of clouds within the space occupied by the upper stratum must prove the air associated with those clouds to be saturated with moisture. Hence the clouds formed in any subjacent stratum cannot be absorbed within the interval between the strata, and must, of course, be more likely to accumulate so as to produce rain.
14. That the upper stratum should be so overcharged with electricity as to give it out in “‘sheet lightning,” undulations, or aurora boreal corruscations, is perfectly consistent with the suggestion which I have advanced respecting the existence of three concentric spaces occupied severally by our globe—the denser non-conducting part of the atmosphere, and the rarified medium beyond that last mentioned, which is sufhiciently rare to form a conductor or coating, the terrestrial surface performing a similar part within, the atmospheric electric existing intermediately.
15. The frequency of the aurora boreal corruscations and flashes is no doubt the consequence of discharges from one part of the exterior concentric space to another, especially when proceeding from either the arctic and antarctic regions to those of intermediate latitudes.
16. It is well known that ice, when very cold and, poriseliaenlye dry, performs the part of an electric no less than glass. The friction of globules, as existing in the fog produced by escaping steam, has been inferred by Faraday to be a competent source for the torrents of electricity generated by a high steam; and it is not improbable that the friction between wind and the terrestrial surface may induce opposite states in the stratum of air bounded by that surface and the stratum occupied by the earth, and that occupying the space above the region of the clouds.
17. The discharges of lightning are the means of equalization between these spaces. Observation shows that the higher regions of the atmosphere are equally surcharged with électricity so as to prove dangerous to travellers among the Sierras or table lands of the Andes. Hence the upper stratum “of clouds is liable to be surcharged with electricity oppositely to the earth. But whatever electrifies the inner terrestrial coating must produce a proportional opposite excitement in the outer one.
18. When an upper stratum of clouds, such as Mr. Wise describes as the ‘cloud cap,”’ is highly electrified by corruscations from the outer concentric space, as above supposed, it is consistent that it should attract the oppositely electrified air in the vicinity of the terrestrial surface. This air must at the same time undergo dilatation like that to which the gas in Wise’s balloon was subjected, and must, of course, be repelled by the similarly electrified earth. Calorific expansion may

<<<Page: 491>>>

co-operate, and thus an ascensional power be generated sufficient to make it rise to the region of the clouds, where rarefaction so increases the calorific capacity of the air, that it robs the aqueous vapor, existing in the air, of its heat, and thus condenses it into a cloud. Meanwhile the heat involved by the vapor in condensing keeps the temperature higher than if the moisture were not present, and, according to Espy,; should be productive of an upward force competent to produce a tornado. But according to Wise’s statements, the uprising current does not reach the upper stratum of clouds.
19. In the fifth paragraph of his synopsis it is alleged not to be continued higher than the lower cloud; but in his narrative he alleges that when ‘the balloon was half way down between the cloud and the lower stratum, the uprising current arrested the descent.’ and was rising and whirling as he was in the margin of the storm.
20), The fact that the balloon, instead of being carried ahead by the current in which the ‘thunder gust,” first noticed by our voyager, floated, was carried towards it so as to be “ involved in the outskirts of its rain,” and to be affected by its motion, can only be ascribed to centripetal currents ; and the whirl might be the natural consequence of the conflicting concurrence of such currents. The rising of the air in the axis of the whirl would require that there should be inblowing currents to supply the deficit created by this upward blast. itis difficult to comprehend why the balloon was not drawn into the vortex and carried round with it.
21. I have never seen nor heard any evidence justifying the idea that an ordinary thunder gust involves the existence of a whirling motion about a vertical axis. The rushing together of two hinder: gusts, or clouds, to form a third, as stated in ‘ae Hanne! and noticed in the 9th paragraph of the synopsis, indicates the existence of two currents rushing towards an intermediate space, where a whirl might contingently ensue, a result which is quite consistent with the inblowing theory, agreeably to which whirling is anincidental consequence, not a cause nor an essential feature of storms. In these respects Wise’s observations are irreconcilable with the rotatory theory, which assumes the whole of the theatre of stormy reaction to whirl about a common axis. Agreeably to this idea, the two thunder gusts, instead of rushing towards each other, would have to be carried further apart by a centrifugal motion, and the air, instead of rising about the axis, would have been drawn downward to supply the centrifugaP curreats.
22. The persistence of the upper stratum, or «cloud cap,” as this stratum is designated in the narrative, is inconsistent with the Espyan hypothesis, which requires that in every thunder gust, no less than in a tornado, that the whole mass of air, of which the commotions constitute the storm, should be turned inside out, by an upward blast produced by the heat arising from condensing vapor. Of course, this force could not come into existence below the level at which the condensation commences, in other words, that of the lower stratum of clouds, and could not continue to operate further than the inferior level of the upper stratum. Any buoyancy thus created would tend to carry up the ‘cloud cap,” while it could have no effect at any level below

<<<Page: 492>>>

that at which the increase of temperature should commence, as I have proved, both experimentally and theoretically.
23. Supposing the electrical charge in the upper stratum to be the main agent in the phenomena, it would be consistent that its influence should be exercised more widely, as the air acted upon should be further off, since distance enlarges the sphere as it lessens the force of the attraction.
24. This seems to explain the widening of the stormy mass affected towards its base, as stated in the sixth paragraph of the synopsis.
25. Agreeably to the seventh allegation of the synopsis, the greatest deposition of rain took place towards the interior or central part of the stormy mass, while, according to spy, the moisture ascends over the focal area, and descends on one or more sides. But Mr. Wise was not well situated to form an accurate estimate in this respect. Until the facts are better examined or confirmed, it were better to postpone the examination of this question.
26. The ninth paragraph is added by me, being founded on the allegations of Mr. Wise in the fourth, fifth, and sixth paragraphs of his narrative.
27. It must be evident that by the narrator the words thunder storm, or thunder gust, are used as synonymous with a stratum of thunder clouds; so that when he informs us that two tremendous thunder storms were approaching each other rapidly beneath him, it is evidently intended to convey the idea of two great thunder clouds coming together so as to form one. 4
28. This is not the first time that the coming together of two thunder clouds has been alleged to happen. In the report on the tornado of Chenay, by Peltier, such an approximation is stated to have preceded the formation of the meteor. Evidently they could not be brought together by charges of electricity unless those charges were of an opposite kind; but if they were of an opposite kind, the union of the clouds would have caused reciprocal neutralization, so far as their charges were equivalent. This result would have been inconsistent with that augmentation of electrical energy consequent to their uniting, which is in both cases alleged t8 have ensued. The only explanation which I can suggest, consistently with the laws of electrical reaction, is, that these masses of vapor were both neutral, and that they were both attracted simultaneously by the upper stratum of clouds, designated by Mr. Wise as the ‘‘cloud cap,” and charged therefrom as soon as they attained sufficient proximity so as to form one cloud.
29. The last paragraph of synopsis was added by me upon the inference of the narrator that his balloon acquired an ascensional power which awakened surprise, and respecting which, on reflection and consideration, he came to the conclusion that “the electrical medium”? mn which he was floating was acting on the gas and attenuating it.”
30. In concluding an essay entitled « Additional objections to Redfield’s theory of storms,” published in Silliman’s Journal about the year 1843, as well as on various other occasions, and especially in my two strictures on Espy’s report, I have advanced that zriform particles, when existing in a mass of air electrified, either vitriously or
: 5 ‘ resinously, must repel each other more than when they are in a normal

<<<Page: 493>>>

state; and, consequently, the mass which they constitute must be dilated proportionably to the intensity of the charge. Moreover, a mass so electrified must be repelled by the earth proportionably to the charge, so that in this way a diminution of barometrical pressure and atmospheric density may ensue.
31. But, according to Dalton’s observations, the temperature being constant, the quantity of moisture in the air is as the space occupied by it, since it is the capacity of the space, not that of the air, which regulates the proportion of moisture associated with the latter.
32. It follows that when by electrical repulsion the air is dilated it will have an increase of its capacity for moisture, proportional to its dilatation, and when the electricity causing the increase of capacity 1s discharged the moisture must precipitate,
33. And further, when two masses of air, oppositely electrified, coalesce proportionably to the neutralization, moisture must be deposited.
34. Such masses must acquire by a reaction with the earth, and an ascensional tendency arising from repulsion between them and the terrestrial surface.. Mr. Wise’s observations respecting the influence of the electric medium upon the gas within his balloon, by which it was so attenuated as to create a surprising ascensional power, is altogether confirmatory of my inferences.
39. It appears that Mr. Wise was enabled to vary the direction of his sailing by varying the altitude at which he floated. Hence, as there are alfvays two currents during gales, it would be possible for an aerial navigator to determine his course by his elevation, as Mr. Wise appears to have done. In a northeastern gale he might first use one current in order to go to a sufficient distance, and then use the other to: return.

<<<Page: 494>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Zool
No. 1—GENERAL REMARKS.
Since the Ist of December, 1850, | have kept a record of observations onthe weather in this city, of which | propose to give youa summary, for the especial benefit of distant enquirers. It may be well to observe, that white the climate of the western coast of North America possesses some peculiar features, that of San Francisco and the immediate vicinity differs from every other place on the coast, and is, in some respects, the most extraordinary climate in the world. This is owing to the peculiar position of the city, having the ocean on one side, and on the other a vast bay, extending north and south near a hundred miles, and separated from the ocean by a mountain wall, except at the break where the city is located, and where the bay communicates with the sea by a narrow strait. On the coast, a trade-wind from the northwest blows almost constantly, in the summer season especially, and a strong ocean current flows in the same direction.
The thermometrical observations forming the basis of the following summary were made three times a day, viz: about sunrise, which is the coldest period; at noon, or after, being the warmest period; and at eleven in the evening. In computing the mean temperature for the month, I have used two observations only, the extremes at sunrise and at mid-day ; experience having shown that the mean thus calculated is very near the true temperature for the twenty-four hours.
In the Atlantic States, the warmest period of the day in winter is from one to two o’clock, and in summer from two to three. In San Francisco the same rule holds in winter but not in summer; for the sea breeze, which springs up about noon, or soon after, instantly depresses the temperature, so that the warmest time of the day, from May to August, inclusive, is an hour or two earlier than in winter.
For the want of proper care in the location of the thermometer, many of the observations which are thrown into print lose much of their value. The greatest error is commonly at mid-day, when the instrument is exposed to reflection from buildings and other objects on which the sun is shining. Every such object acts as a mirror, and tends to elevate the column of mercury above the proper mark for the air. The thermometer should, therefore, be excluded, not only from the direct, but also from the reflected heat of the sun, and it should at the same time be exposed to a free circulation of air; hence, to obtain a proper location is often very difficult. The figures in my observations will be found lower, in many instances, than those obtained by other observers, in consequence of the care exercised in this respect. In making the morning observation, I use a self-registering thermometer, which is certain to give the minimum temperature.

<<<Page: 495>>>

The summary, which I will now present, gives the mean for each month at or before sunrise, when it is the coldest, or at noon, when it
is warmest, and at eleven in the evening; the mean. temperature of
the month, computed from two daily observations; also, the warmest and the coldest mornings in each month, and the warmest and coldest days at noon, with the range of the thermometer. It embraces a period of fourteen months—irom December, 1850, to January, 1852, inclusive.
Decemser, 1850.—Sunrise 45.29 degrees Farenheit ; noon 54.13; 11 p. m. 45.39. Monthly temperature “48. 71. Coldest morning 28, warmest morning, 54; coldest noon 38, warmest noon 64; range BGy
JANUARY, Tea e are 41.68; noon 46.94; 11 p. m. 44.90. Monthly temperature 49.51. Coldest morning 30, warmest morning 56; coldest noon 50, warmest noon 64; range 34.
Frespruary, 185].—Sunrise 41.97; noon 60.03; li p. m. 43.64. Monthly temperature 51. Coldest morning 33, warmest morning 52; coldest noon 55, warmest noon 71; range 38. |
Marcu, 1851.—Sunrise 44; noon 63.68; 11 p. m. 44.84. Monthly temperature 53.84. Coldest morning 34, warmest morning 50; coldest noon 43, warmest noon 74; range 40.
Apri, 1851.—Sunrise 48.20; noon 67.27; 11 p.m. 49.80. Monthly temperature 57.73. Coldest morning 42, warmest morning 56; coldest noon 57, warmest noon 84; range 42.
May, 1851.—Sunrise 49.58; noon 64.32; 11 p.m. 50.42. Monthly temperature 55.95. Coldest morning 45, warmest morning 543; coldest noon 57, warmest noon 71; range 26.
June, 1851.—Sunrise 50.90 3 noon 66.73; 11 p.m. 51.80. Monthly temperature 58.81. Coldest morning 49, warmest morning 56; coldest noon 60, warmest noon 78; range 29.
Juny, 1851.—Sunrise 51.50; noon 64.52; 11 p. m. 52.10. Monthly temperature 57.91. Coldest morning 47, warmest morning 54; coldest noon 60, warmest noon 73; range 26.
Aueust, 185].—NSunrise 54. 97; noon 69.45; 11 p. m. 56.06. Monthly temperature 62.21. Galdest morning 50, warmest morning 66; coldest noon 63, warmest noon 823; range 32.
SepremsBer, 1851.—Sunrise 53.97; noon 69.27; 11 p. m. 54.20. Monthly temperature 61.62. Coldest morning 50, warmest morning 63; coldest noon 64, warmest noon 75; range "25.
OcroserR, 185]1.—Sunrise 53.36; noon 70. 42; 1] p. m. 55.45. Monthly temperature 61.89. Galdess morning 47, warmest morning 60; coldest noon 60, warmest noon 85; range “36.
NoveMBER, 1851.—Sunrise 48.93; noon 63.60; 11 p. m. 51.90. Monthly temperature 56.26. Coldest morning 41, warmest morning odie coldest noon 2, Warmest noon 73; range 32.
Drcemper, 1851.—Sunrise 46.10; noon 56.55; 11 p. m. 48.26. Monthly temperature 51.32. Coldest morning 385, warmest morning 58; coldest noon 51, warmest noon 61; range 26.
January, 1852.—Sunrise 44.61; noon 56.97; 11 p. m. 49.39. Monthly temperature 50.79. Coldest morning 35, warmest morning 523 coldest noon 50, warmest noon 64; range “29,
For the year 1851: Sunrise 48. 76; noon 64.38; 11 p. m. 50.28.

<<<Page: 496>>>

Yearly temperature 56.57. Coldest morning (January 17th) 30, warmest morning (August 18th) 66; coldest noon (January 9th) 50, warmest noon (April 28th) 84; range 54.
The average yearly temper rature at Philadelphia is 51.50. Two degrees south of Philadelphia, 1 in the latitude of San Francisco, it Is near 54. It follows that the yearly temperature at this point of the Pacific coast is not much higher than on the Atlantic border. The vicinity of the Golden Gate is much colder in summer than any other point on the Pacific coast south of the Columbia river, owing to the almost incessant sea breezes, induced by the aeographical features of the region round about.
The most striking peculiarity of the climate of San Francisco is its uniform temperature. There are no extremes of heat or cold. The warmest day in the year was the 28th of April, when the mercury reached 84; next to this was the 19th of October, 83. On the 18th of August it was 82, but this was the only day im the three summer months when it rose above 79! The thermometer was at or above 80 only on nine days in the year, six ef which were in October. At Philadelphia, it reaches this point on from sixty to eighty days in the year.
Only once in the year did the mercury sink to the freezing point, and it was below 40 only on twenty-five mornings. At Philadelpbia, it falls to the freezing point or lower about 100 times in the year.
The coldest day in the year, at noon, was 00. This is about equal to the warmest weather in the three winter months at Philadelphia. There, the months of January and February sometimes pass without one day as warm as this. :
The warmest month in the year, at sunrise, was August, then S September, then October. July, which is decidedly the hottest month in most other climates, was the fourth on the list, being considerably colder than October.
The warmest month at noonday was October; then August, September, April and June, in the order named. July comes in Sail May, being the sixth on the list, and only a trifle warmer at noonday than March and November.
At 11 p. m. August was the warmest, and next comes October and September, before July, which is but a trifle warmer at this hour than November. November was warmer in the evening than June.
The lowest temperature in the year being 30°, and the highest 84°, it follows that the range of the thermometer was 54°. On the Atlantic border, in the same latitude, the range is nearly 100°. At Philadelphia the greatest cold is 10° below zero, and the greatest heat 94°— making a range of 104°. At San Francisco, in December, 1850, the thermometer was one morning as low as 28°, and did not rise above 38° at noon, so that ice remained in the shade all day. This was regarded as an extraordinary degree of cold. Up to the present date, February 25, 1852, the extreme cold of the winter has been 35°, and it is probable the coldest weather is past.
January is the coldest month of the year in the Atlantic States, and February a trifle warmer. The same is true of San Francisco, judging from the past year. The temperature of January, at Philadelphia, is about 304°, and that of July, the warmest month, 735°; difference

<<<Page: 497>>>

43°. The difference between January and August, the coldest and warmest months at San Francisco, was not quite 13°!
To facilitate comparison, I insert the mean temperature for a series of years of the several months at Philadelphia: January, 304°; February, 313°; March, 40°; April, 50°; May, 604°; June, 69°; July, 73$°; August, 715°; September, 64°; October, 53°; November, 424°; December, 533°. By observing that one degree of latitude makes about one degree of difference in temperature in the Atlantic States, the reader may easily compute, from these data, the mean temperature at any given place. For example, if the place be two degrees north of Philadelphia, you will find its mean temperature by deducting two from the temperature at Philadelphia; if south, by adding.
The coldest month in 1851, at San Francisco, (viz: January,) was 9° warmer than the average of the coldest month at Philadelphia; while August, the warmest month at San Francisco, was 11° colder than the average of July, the warmest month at Philadelphia.
At San Francisco, the temperature falls more rapidly in the afternoon and evening than in the Atlantic States, but less rapidly during the night. From 11 Pp. m. to sunrise, the mercury at Philadelphia falls four or five degrees on the average, while at San Francisco the difference was less than two degrees, and in four of the months less than one degree; except in the winter, when the change is similar in this respect at the two points. In November, December, and January, at San Francisco, the thermometer falls from two to three and a half degrees between 11 p. m. and sunrise. The same is true precisely of Philadelphia. But while at Philadelphia-in all the other months the fall during the same period of the night is twice as great, it is less than half as much at the former place. In other words, the temperature falls in the night, after 11 p. m., four times as much at Philadelphia as at San Francisco, from February to September inclusive.
In the summer months there is scarcely any change of temperature in the night. The early morning is sometimes clear, sometimes cloudy, and always calm. A few hours after sunrise the clouds break away, and the sun shines forth cheerfully and delightfully. ‘Towards noon, or most frequently about 1 o’clock, the sea breeze sets in and the weather is completely changed. From 60° to 65° the mercury drops forthwith to near 50°, long before sunset, and remains almost motionless till next morning. This is the order of things in three days out of four in June, July, and August. May and September exhibit something of the same character, the sea winds establishing themselves in the former and declining in the latter month. This subject will be more fully investigated under the head of winds.
The remarkable uniformity of temperature at San Francisco may be further illustrated by taking note of the number of days in the year which give the same degree. The most frequent temperature at sunrise was 53°, the mercury standing at that point on forty-five mornings. The most frequent at noon was 64°, forty-two days showing that temperature. Referring to my journal kept at Philadelphia, I happened to open at the year 1839, which exhibits a fair representation of the climate there. I find the most frequent temperatures at sunrise were 52° and 68°, but that the mercury stood at each of these points on

<<<Page: 498>>>

fourteen mornings only. The greatest number of days in the year coinciding in temperature at noon was sixteen, with the thermometer at 68°.
At San Francisco, in the year 1851, there were one hundred and sixty-one mornings with the temperature from 50° to 54° inclusive. At Philadelphia the greatest number of mornings within the like range of the thermometer, in the year 1839, was but forty-six. At the former place there were two hundred and nineteen days within a range of 5° at noon, while the greatest number within that range at Philadelphia was but sixty.
It is not uncommon for the thermometer at noon to stand almost at the same point day after day, for one or two weeks. March, April, and October, were the most irregular months in this respect, being interspersed with a great proportion of warm days. But no other month of the year elapsed without exhibiting one or two weeks continuously when the mercury varied only 5°. From the 12th to the 26th February, (15 days,) the lowest mark at noonday was 55°, and the highest 60°. From the 2d to the 16th of June, (15 days,) the lowest was 65°, and the highest 70°. From the Ist to the 13th of July, (13 days,) the lowest was 61°, and the highest 65°; and from the 17th to the 27th of the same month, the lowest was 60°, and the highest 65°. In the first 13 days of August, the lowest was 63°, and the highest 65°—a variation of only 2°. From the 13th to the 21st of September, the lowest was 65°, and the highest 66°—only 1° of variation in nme days.— From the 2d to the 11th of November, (10 days,) the range was. between 62° and 67°; and from the 14th to the 24th, (11 days,) between 60° and 65°. From December 8th to the 24th, (15 days,) the variation was from 54° to 58°—only 4°.
The sudden fluctuations of temperature incident to the climate of the Atlantic States are unknown here. We have none of those angry outbreaks from the northwest, which change summer to winter in a few hours. But the diurnal depressions of temperature in the afternoon are considerable. The average fall of the thermometer from noon to 11 P. M., for the whole year, is at Philadelphia 11°; at San Francisco 14°. The change at the latter place is the more striking, from its greater rapidity. In the season of the sea breezes, a few hours will reduce the temperature fifteen, twenty, and on some of the warmest days, twentyfive degrees; and this change is effected long before sunset. Under the head of winds, this subject will be more fully examined.
Comparing one day with that succeeding, the difference is never ‘great. The greatest difference during the year at noon, between two adjoining days, was 21°. Turning to the table for 1839, at Philadelphia, in the month of March alone, three instances are found exceeding this: the differences being in one case 29°, in the second 33°, and in the third 35°. Though no other month was equal to March in this respect, yet there were several other examples during the year which exceeded the extreme at San Francisco.
As regards the influence of the seasons on vegetation, the common order is reversed. The entire absence of rain in the summer months parches the soil, and reduces it almost to the barrenness of a northern winter. The cold sea winds of the summer solstice defy the almost vertical sun, and call for flannels and overcoats. When the winds

<<<Page: 499>>>

cease, as they do in September and October, comes a delightful Indian summer. In November and December the early rains fall, and the temperature being moderate, vegetation starts forth, and midwinter finds the earth clad in lively green and spangled with countless flowers. The spring opens with genial warmth, but just as the April sun begins to give promise of summer heat, its rays are shorn of their power by the winds and mists of the Pacific.
These remarks apply only toa small portion of the State of California. Beyond the influence of the Bay of San Francisco and its outlet, the sea winds are scarcely perceptible, even near the ocean. Ina subsequent chapter, | will present the results of my observations on the winds, clouds, rain, and other phenomena of the climate, as noticed at San Francisco, together with some notes on the climate of other portions of the State, and also its general relations to health.
In.a former article I gave the result of my observations on Temperature. The present chapter refers to the Winds. ake course of the wind is noted in my journal by three daily entries, : forenoon, afternoon and evening. Should the wind change during pa of these periods, as it very often does, especially in the forenoon: the change is marked, and taken into account in the summing up. With these explanations, the reader will have no difficulty in comprehending the following ible: which shows the winds of each month of the year, and the total of the year:
ae We RTT WY EAM CGRNIRS CPTI RAMEN lie GREGG 1852. Ni: NE. Ey), | a8Es. sw. W. NW. January...eseeee| 85 2 1 1a) Wakes 7 21 6 February.....se18 5 2 6 9 3 15 16 March ss).\ee sterejors 7 2 1 8 4 14 34 23 IAtpriliy. cisre eres tetets 3 el 1 4 7 13 45 12 May 1 1 i 2 4 11 65 8 tae Sho Ga OnOeC 1 1 1 1 5 + 62 5) Afulllivetorstcie-se'e'e sieve 0) 0 Th sel 2 1 14 | 74 1 GAN SSE 16 15,0'0 ioke's Om i 1 ites 6 lt 72 1 September...... ig 0 0 Q 2 11 72 2 October... ... 1%... 8 3 Sia 6 6 2 54 11 November....... 10 4 | by 8 15 12 30 | 9 December....... 15 9 3 12 24 7 13 10 99 BB) 17 66 90 129 557 | 104
The direction of the coast is nearly NW. and SE., or about one point north of NW., and one point south of SE. Hence the winds from NW. 1toS., inclusive, blow from the ocean, and those from N. to SE. from the land. ‘The former greatly preponderate, exhibiting an aggregate of 880 observations, to 215 of the latter. That is to say, the winds blew from the ocean semi-circle more than three-fourths of the year.

<<<Page: 500>>>

It is still more striking that the winds came from due west, or rather from the octant corresponding to that point, more than half the year ; the summing up of that column being 557 against 538 from all other points, embracing seven eighths of the compass. .
Observe the remarkable contrast between the columns of west and east winds, the latter presenting only 17 observations in the year! It is a well ascertained fact that westerly winds predominate in the temperate latitudes of the northern hemisphere, on both continents. But I cannot discover that in any other spot on the globe the winds blow from one octant 186 days, and from the opposite octant only six days in the year.
Dividing the year into four seasons, January, February and December being classed as the winter months, we have the following result :
| f ; | | |
pO ap GIN) y cB op SB) Se SW. clk Wee Nite
{ { } | |
pe RE 2 2 th | | ie
| Pea ie ey SpE Ee dive of «oe a 8 Bid. eeidies | = all wily 998 144 43 Summer ..... ae i 2 oe me. a naa | 39 208 7 SATUEUITEITIES 3 \010'576/0) 01 19 nat Da TG; | 33 | 25 156 | 29 Winters.|.\s:sco0) 0) (68 | 16 | CH ey bee 2 ean erate Sy a 49 32
Thus it appears that the proportion of land winds to sea winds, in the several months, was as follows:
January, land winds, 52 observations ; sea winds, 41 observations.
February, do 31 do do 53 do. March, do 18 do do 75 do. April, do 13 do do 77 do May, do 5 do do 88 do June, do 4 do do 86 do July, do 3 do do 90 do August, do 3 do do 90 do September do 3 do do 7 do October, do 20 do do 73 do November, do 24 do do 66 do December, do 39 do do 54 do
Grouping the months into seasons, and reducing the observations to days, three observations representing one entire day, we find in the—
Spring, land winds, 12 days, sea winds, 80 days.
Summer, do 3 do do 89 do.
Autumn, do 16 do do 75 do.
Winter, do 41 do do 49 do. Total, 2 293
In every month of the year the sea winds exceed the land winds,. except January, when the reverse occurred. In January, 1852, the land winds were 61, and the sea winds 32. In February, however, the former were but 27, and the latter 60. In December, 1850, the land winds exceeded the sea winds by one observation, the figures standing 47 to 46.
By casting the cye over the tables, one is struck with the progressive increase of the sea winds after the month of January, and the almost entire absence of the opposite winds from May to September, inclusive—the land winds in these five months occupying only six days.
The winds from north and east are always dry, and in winter cool.

<<<Page: 501>>>

They are nearly always attended with a sky of cloudless blue. Those from northwest to southwest are cold and chilling at all seasons, and in summer loaded with the ocean mists. But they do not often produce rain. ‘The coast winds from south and southeast are most conducive to rain, and they are always warm. ‘The course of the winds in relation to rain will be considered under the head of rains.
The force of the winds at different periods of the day, and from dif ferent points of the compass, is a subject of some interest. It is represented by figures—O indicating calm or nearly calm, 1 a light breeze, 2 a moderate breeze, 5 a strong breeze or wind, 4 a high wind, and 5 a very high wind. ‘The observations occupy three columns, for the forenoon, afternoon, and evening. 'The mean of each of these columns for every month is given in the following table, and the fourth column contains the mean of the three observations, collectively, for each month.
Forenoon. | Afternoon. Evening. Mean.
JANMUMATY 20 0 0c seccccerccscccccssecs 1.21 1.45 .66 a Sat | February... ccccccccccrceccsrccees 1.45 1.93 1.07 1.48 Whe la a's areve naieies heres lef'e.s 76 elas sietoceves | 1.68 SrOe 1.40 erie LG pT te GSE NS MS ies a Sd 1.55 2.32 1.33 1.73 WVTelivis.5;c\o.0.0.<!e'e/ssvole'e oes alas slaeta; sieiet are 2.61 1.61 2.00 MUTT OPC relicioieakectons aiatesietara eels muboee 1.85 2.80 1.92 2.19 JULY.) e:eie ie .0 0.0 o's oeclaletasiasis o1s6 care ais | 1.66 9.97 2.19 ey INGIOUIS Eaieleus ice cloieteletete’s loiwjeisielstenis. secre 145 2.66 ead 1.96 SIEjaueledlalven Hejoo Coo db oo cleo Gerd Oe & 1.48 2.38 1.28 1.71 OCLOHeT erasure colele siefesustesa tehor cies siete .87 D805. .87 1.26 INOVviemlberets:< srevesta cies hele otate slae-ccte .85 1.22 50 .92 Wecembertav ciel Fcerales Grolasconate sieitvanole lesa 1.32 1.07 1.25 HI Byles Sree co eiaiavatepte kouet omeeteieve ceciets 1.43 2.16 1.32 1.64
The reader will perceive that the average force of the wind in the afternoon was greater than in the forenoon, in every month of the year except December. By referring to my Philadelphia tables, I find there is no uniformity in this respect, the morning winds being stronger in some months, and the afternoon winds in others.
The evening winds were uniformly lighter than the afternoon, and lighter than those of the forenoon, except in the three summer months, when they were decidedly stronger than in the forenoon. At Philadelphia the evening winds sum up lower in strength than those of the forenoon or afternoon, in every month, without exception.
The table shows a remarkable progressive increase in the force of the atmospheric currents from January to July, the latter being the most windy month of the year; and then a decrease till November, the calmest month. At Philadelphia there is no such regularity. Autumn is the calmest season at both places, but summer comes next in the Atlantic States, then winter, and lastly spring, which is the windiest season on the eastern side of the continent.
From May to September, inclusive, there is more wind at San Francisco than at Philadelphia; but in the remaining five months, from October to April, there is less.
Not only in regard to time do the winds from the western semicircle greatly preponderate, but also in force. The land winds are often very

<<<Page: 502>>>

light and transient, not affecting an ordinary vane. Besides, many of the observations placed in this column in my journal are due to the influence of the bay, from which a gentle current—really a sea breeze— frequently flows upon the city for a brief period.in the forenoon, before the general current from the ocean sets in from the opposite quarter. These bay currents are strictly local; and on the opposite side of the bay they take the opposite direction, and swell the proportion of sea ~ winds i. that location.
The following table is a summary of three daily observations, continued through the year 1851, showing the direction of the atmospheric currrents, with reference to their comparative force.
N.-& NeW. E-& N-ES.&S-E. W-&S.W-
Nearly Calin oats te ah cok s. 49 24. 49 30 irons breeze. =. 2. ky Bae Site Pra sd 39 88 146 | TRELEZA 213 Valin aga a a RS RL 69 iD) 36 B00 NS SITE tetanic a 20 i) 13 191 LIM WAGs. sea Seo ge 0 2 29 Nemyemien twats." 2's. 2.08 ..) 0 3 1
Thus it appears that the wind was very high only on three days in the year. Much as is said of the violence of the wind at this place, I have never yet witnessed a wind in California equal to that which frequently attends a thunder-gust or an easterly storm of the highest grade in the Atlantic States.
From the east quarter of the compass the current did not rise beyond a moderate breeze in the entire year, and only for five observations did it reach that degree of force. As we recede from that limit, either northward or southward, the winds increase both in frequency and strength. But it is not until we pass the north point on one hand, and the southeast point on the other, that they are high. Of the twenty observations above noted as “winds” from the north and northwest, seventeen were from northwest, and only three from north. ‘The two high winds under the same head were from northwest. So in regard to the thirteen winds, three high winds, and two very high winds, in the column headed south and southeast; a small proportion were from due southeast, the mass of them coming from south-southeast and south. The high winds of winter, when such occur, are from this quarter, and bring rain. ‘The high winds of summer are always westerly, and without rain.
In the course of the year there were 169 windy days. On 123 of this number, the wind did not rise till after the sun had crossed the meridian, and it continued after sunset on 57 only. There were but 20 days in the year windy at sunrise.
The sea breeze of summer, which forms the most striking trait of the climate of San Francisco, demands something more than a passing notice, and will be reserved for another chapter, together with the subjects of clouds, rains, electrical phenomena, &c.

<<<Page: 503>>>

No. 3.—THE SEA BREEZE.
The tables contained in my last number exhibit the great excess of sea winds over land winds in every month of the year 1851, excepting January, when the excess was in favor of land winds. In this respect, the month of January in the present year corresponds with the last. December, 1850, shows a very slight preponderance of land winds. From these data I infer the general rule, that the westerly or sea winds predominate in every month except January and December, and that the latter month varies in this respect, being sometimes on the one side and sometimes on the other.
I have already stated that the westerly winds increase, both in frequency and in force, from February to July, and then begin to fall off very gradually. ‘The precise relation of sea to land winds, in each naan, as to frequency, is shown by computing their per centage of the whole number of cbsérvations. The result for the year 1851 is as follows:
Saar y, ea WINKS.) c.2 oe oie’ esc eee < ati esc 44 per cent. MOD IMA ig | MOO. ca Sah isso ape EE EDS slower nota 63 do. March, MUG) 1 oe shee eh ee en eae ea OL” do. April, Ca Mee a i SEP eo es gals SL 86 do. May, GO OS ie etsiaa 2 ata octane Ones aoa uae 95. ado: June, Ges ige ns cue Oe aR i) a eae, en ee 96 do. July, GON skenant atoccie ai Uttte dace eee eaetre Sake 97.) do: August, Ca a Sa Ne lane a BN yA re nc Do ar 07)". de. RSS Ire 07 ea a (0 Sen Ma, ae eta ia ie die al 96°. do. October, GOs MIP on anit = eae ous eneie ee ee a e tea ae INOVEMNOEL, ClO.) WRBe\ <4 ctaisemna eke ee cis to ones Mega ue he. SOO: ICCerOver, <GOs MEY Ae. pate eo). cyclonic eee on 38. doTo which may be added— December, 1850, sea breeze.....-....---kaa 49) do. January, 1852, (6 LOW Sates Meebelacter te Sera! S 9 anit ho een OF doe February, 1852, OME SE pa. cia eee 69 do.
Whatever may be the direction of the wind in the forenoon, in the spring, summer, and autumn months, it almost invariably works round towards the west in the afternoon. So constant is this phenomenon, that in the seven months from April to October, inclusive, there were but three days on which it missed, namely, on the 8th of April, the 18th of May, and the 27th of August. And these three days were all rainy, with the wind from the south or south-southwest.
The sea winds are moderate in the spring until the month of May, when they begin to give trouble. In June they increase in force, reaching their oreatest violence about the beginning of July. In August they begin to deshaesi in force, though not in constancy. In September they continue steady, though moder: ate; and in October they lose their annoying qualities, and become gentle and agreeable.
The sea winds of summer are commonly ‘supposed to come from the northwest. But this is a great error, arising, no doubt, from the fact that our citizens have mostly been accustomed to cold winds, in tke

<<<Page: 504>>>

Atlantic States, from that quarter. In the early spring they sometimes proceed from north of west. As the season advances they depart entirely from this course, and are almost mvariably from south of west. From May to September, a period of five months, the direction of the afiernoon sea breeze was north of west on twelve days only; and even _on these occasions it was mostly within one point of west. The prevailing direction was west southwest.
I have reason to believe that the wind off the coast, at sea, during the period referred to, is more northwardly than on land, and that it is deflected from that course about the bay of San Francisco. Such, at least, is the account given by the captains of vessels navigating the coast.
There was a decided sea breeze on 23 days in March, 17 days in April, 22 days in May, 24 days in June, every day in July and August, 28 days in September, 30 days in October, and 8 in November.
The number of afternoons that might be described as windy was, in February 8, March 16, April 15, May 18, June 24, July 29, August 23, September 19, October 8, November 2. On the 162 days thus noted, the mornings were seldom windy, the wind rising above a moderate breeze in the forenoon on 34 days only. In May there were 5 days windy at sunrise, and 1 in June; but not one in the months of April, July, August, September, and October.
The sea breeze generally rises to its height soon after noon-day, mostly between one and two o’clock, but sometimes not till three or four. It commonly falls about sunset, or soon after. Sometimes it continues till midnight. In the early part of the season it is apt to set in earlier and continue later. There were 8 windy evenings in May, 11 in June, 11 in July, 5 in August, and none in September.
The idea of mist and vapor is commonly associated with these winds; but the sky is clear, or partially so, more than half the time There were 6 cloudy mornings in May, 11 in June, 16 in July, 21 in August, and 22 in September. About 9 or 10 o’clock, the clouds mostly broke away rapidly,.a light breeze springing up at the same time. Several hours of very pleasant weather occurred towards noon, almost every day. The sun shone forth with genial warmth, the mercury rising generally from about 50 at sunrise, to 60 or 65 at noon; but when the sun had reached the zenith, the wind rapidly increased, coming down in gusts from the hills, which separate the city from the ocean, and often bringing with it clouds of mist. But the dampness is never sufficient to prevent the elevation of clouds of dust and sand, which sport through the streets in the most lively manner. The mercury falls suddenly, and long before sunset it fixes itself within a few degrees above 5V, where it sticks pertinaciously till next morning; often not moving a hair’s breadth for twelve hours. Many times I have examined the instrument on suspicion that some defect had fixed the column immovably. The chilling temperature adds to the effect of sand and dust. Persons who have business out of doors are seen buttoning up their coats or overcoats, and rubbing industriously at the various apertures about the face as they hurry through the streets, in the worst possible humor. ~ Such weather, at the summer solstice, with an almost vertical sun, is pronounced ‘perfectly ridiculous.”
Mis. Doc. 24 16

<<<Page: 505>>>

The mist often increases towards evening, and, when the wind falls,. remains all night in the shape of a heavy fos. Sometimes, when the sun has been shining brightly, the mist comes in from the ocean in one great wave, and suddenly submerges the landscape. In a few minutes it may vanish, and give place to the cheerful sunshine. In short, there is no conceivable admixture of wind, dust, cloud, fog, and sunshine that is not constantly on hand during the summer at San Francisco. Not unfrequently you are tantalized with a rainbow at sunset. Once I saw a solar rainbow before night in the east, and soon afterwards. another bow, in the west, made “by the moon.
I have already noticed the almost constant prevalence of the west and southwest currents. As the sea breezes become established, the entire absence of winds from north and northwest is remarkable. In the month of May, and in the beginning of June, there were a few light breezes from that quarter. But from the 13th of June until near the middle of October, a period of four months, there is not a solitary observation noted in my record, even of the lightest or most transient wind, from north or northwest. I think it probable that the same cannot be said of any other spot on the globe, in the north temperate zone.
The uniformity of the summer weather is occasionally broken by the intervention of a few warm and pleasant days, when the wind is not high enough to convert summer into winter. Under these circumstances the thermometer mounts to 70 or 75. In the latter spring and early autumn months it is warmer. But as soon as the ‘“*summer” has fairly set in, flannels and firewood are in almost constant demand, at least until August.
No one but an actual observer can appreciate the utter impotency of
an almost vertical sun during a brisk sea breeze. The rays of the sum have scarcely more warmth than moon beams. Instead of raising the thermometer 30 or 40 degrees, they seldom produce more than ten degrees of elevation in the sweep of the wind.
Such is the ‘summer’? at San Francisco. Everybody complains of the chilly winds, the mist, and the dust. If you have nothing to do but sit in the house, you are perfectly comfortable. Even for out-door employment or exercise, the mornings are almost invariably pleasant. The evenings are generally too cool to sit without fire, and the nights are never too warm to dispense with blankets. For the purpose of rest and sleep, the night in California is perfectly luxurious all the year through. With sprinkled streets, the afternoons will lose much of their bad character at San Francisco.
It might be inferred that a climate such as I have described is unfavorable to health, especially with persons liable to diseases of the chest. But the fact is just the reverse. The tone and vigor given to the animal frame by the uninterruptedly bracing temperature, appear to raise it above the control of inherent tendencies to pulmonic disorders. I believe the humid and saline condition of the atmosphere co-operates in the benefit. But I shall consider this subject more fully under a distinct head.
In all other parts of California, except the region about the Bay of San Francisco, the summer is very different. ” Along the coast are mists and sea breezes, but the winds are moderate a not so chilling.

<<<Page: 506>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 243 Inland, they do not extend beyond the barrier of hills which skirt the coast. A distance of fifty miles in any direction from San Francisco brings you into a different climate. In a southeast course, towards San José, you escape the winds and fogs of summer by travelling twenty or thirty miles. Even in Contra Costa, directly across the bay, they are less severe, though the trees show, by their semi-prostrate attitudes, the direction of the prevailing atmospheric currents.
The general principles on which depend the diurnal currents of air, which set in from sea to land, are well known. ‘The land being more heated than the ocean by the sun’s rays, the superincumbent heated air r'ses ina steady column. Its place must be supplied from some quarter, and the colder and denser air of the ocean accordingly flows in, constituting a sea breeze. Independently of this, we have the universal westerly current, coinciding in its course and tending to add strength and constancy to the sea breeze, while the topographical features of the Bay of San Francisco, and the region of country bordering on it, enhance the effect. ‘These several causes combined will explain the extraordinary constancy and force of the westerly winds at this point.
The importance of these winds, in connexion with the climate of San Francisco, has led me to dilate much more than [ intended in taking up the subject. ‘There are other incidents of the climate yet to be considered.
No. 4.—RAIN, STORMS, CLOUDS, AND MISTS.
Mining and agriculture, the leading interests of California, are intimately connected with the distribution of rains. The absence of rain during one portion of the year, and its profuse supply during the _remaining period, a phenomenon which maintains through a great extent of the western cuast of the American continent, gives the subject additional interest as connected with meteorological science. These considerations induce me to enter into some details which may prove beneficial, although they may possibly not be so interesting to every class of readers. The prevailing idea of mists and fogs, and the relation of the climate to health, furnish additional reasons for some degree of minuteness in the investigation.
The subjoined table presents the following details, for each month, from December, 1850, to March, 1852, inclusive of both months.
Ist. column. ‘The number of days on which rain fell.
2d. The quantity of rain in inches. !
3d and 4th. The proportion of clear and cloudy weather.
oth. The number of days clear, or nearly so, from sunrise to sunset.
6th. The number of days entirely cloudy, from morning to night.
7th, 8th, and 9th. The number of days misty in the forenoon, in the atternoon, and in the evening.

<<<Page: 507>>>

| | | | |
=I a. n n n s : : 's n 3 = ge s : Bs : : S Months. 3 re om Ss, | os os Z ‘a e am E 5"s oS o3 ge Le ee sant, = B a ae GUE A lis SIM a cy |e = a : rs) = > a = = 1850. December....... 4 1.15 22 4) 17 3 4 2 2 1851. JaMUaryyerele/ete «e's 4 0.65 24 7 12 ul 8 3 5 February........ 4 0.35 23 5 14 1 4 1 2 IMTanre line etal sietsye,e:e 9 1.88 20 iMG 9 3 2 I if April eel ste 8 1.14 20 10 10 3 3s 1 I Daa aidejoscs-05 3] 0.69 93 8 15 | 1 0 0 2 AIUD! Ie'e alete's cles 6. « 0 20 10 10 il 0 3 6 VUllivicrcsiele'ets ose’ « 0 20 11 9 0 1 6 19 INU USE «% (5)0/6)0,0! 03 1 0.02 21 10 10 1 0 2 9 September...... 2 1.00 23 -7 i 0 2 ] 2 October's. 2. ',</5 2 0.18 26 5 15 0 2 1 3 November....... 5 2.14 23 7 13 2 2 2\ 4 December....... 15 7.07 19 12 10 5 1 0 0 1852. January... ./ss/eeis 4 0.58 23 8 13 0 6 1 2 Febr uary.. Seeretsvelere 4 0.12 21 8 5 2 | 5 0 0 DFarelas) cictaveree 'sieis 14 6.40 19 12 3 4 2 0 0
It appears that the quantity of rain in the year 1851 was a small fraction over 15 inches. The annual quantity in the Atlantic States varies from 35 to 60 inches, with an average of about 45 inches. The driest season there gives more than double the amount exhibited in the foregoing table. So small a quantity as 15 inches falling in one year would be a terrible calamity to our Atlantic neighbors. It would involve the entire country in embarrassment, bankruptcy, and famine.
The winter of 1850-751 was remarkably dry. Throwing it aside, and taking the year from the Ist of April, 1851, to the 1st of April, 1852, so as to include the rains of the following winter, we have 19.84 inches. I presume this figure is not very far from the mean of a series of years. But it is still much below the annual supply east of the Rocky Mountains.
It is well known that tropical countries have the most abundant rains, and that the quantity diminishes as you go northward. This is the general rule. On examining the records in my possession, scattered through a variety of publications, the smallest annual fall of water that I can find distributed in the Atlantic States or in the valley of the Mississippi, is at Burlington, Vermont, on the eastern border of Lake Champlain. The mean for a series of 13 years was 32.24 inches, and the least quantity in any one year was 26.35 inches, in 1849. In making these statements, the snow reduced to water is always included.
According to my own register, kept in Wilmington, Delaware, from |
1827 to 1843, and at Philadelphia from that time till 1850, the least
annual fall of water was 38.70 inches, in 1837, and the greatest 66.87 |
inches, in 1831.
The latter is an extraordinary supply for the middle States, but it is | exceeded in the southern and southwestern sections of the country. It |
appears by a table published in the reports of the Patent Office, that "
there fell in Union county, Arkansas, latitude 33° 18’ north and longi

<<<Page: 508>>>

tude 16° west of Washington, in, the year 1850, not less than 81.37 inches. And this is not the maximum quantity in the southern tier of States.
Whether the rains in other parts of the State correspond in quantity with those of San Francisco, I am unable to say. I have taken measures to obtain exact information concerning this and other departments of the meteorology of California. But the only data of importance at present in my hand, consist of a journal for 1850 and 1851, kindly furnished me by Dr. R. V. Abbott, of the United States army, kept by him at Camp Far West, in the northern part of the State, latitude 39° 20’ north, longitude 121° 18 west from Greenwich. From this record is taken the tollowing account of the rain in each month of those years ,
1850. 1851. 4 RITE: iO oR ERT RA ne or Ras ec eae 6.71 inches. 2.06 inches. Meoruary, tho PISS ie 22) Yee GOare) LUGS as hy Lerif| Uae Se RS St Ee Re RO Hib» 6 SAAS BANDA ees ect ale at G2 ro Ney DUM oe WANs 88 3d. OGt e's ASME teee eens ANY NASON WR UY SP LEE 28 RA ut 0.00 « 0.86 «© BLT Sane oa gd Sa ey RL Ae Sd OL00 \-rhies OLOO: xe Sang eee AP ER se GE Se ae O00, ves OOO i006 gs 001055) RA aoe ae Re ae ee a Pe OOO) woes OLOOH ines DEPMeIMDEE LS CE PG 2 aie IG 200Ki. us Oss Onan acs Dieta erase ker a EE is Sealed ae ae HOD 0.10 * BWiawerminerie be icre hal iu ib eS ee Be hy DQAOM Wai ee TSG ps PDeGenmoe rah SAL Ss Bs NA op rs ZtOOu ut 6:63) ‘Siste lta.) Sie LEILA VO so i eae Oy aL 20.37 19.57
Thus it appears that the quantity which fell in San Francisco, in the year ending April 1, 1852, and which I have assumed as the probable annual mean, viz: 19.34 inches, corresponds very nearly with the annual supply for two years at Camp Far West.
In the two winters, or rainy seasons, embraced in my table, there were but four days on each of which the quantity reached one inch, viz: November 8, 1851, 1.50 inches; December 22, 1851, 2 inches; March 6, 1852, 1.20 inches; and March 8, 1852, 1.15 inches. These quantities bear no comparison with the rains of the Atlantic States. In almost every month of the year there are rains in that region from 1 to 3 inches in depth. The greatest quantity in a day at San Francisco was 2 inches. The heaviest rains at Wilmington, in each year, from 1830 to 1840, were as follows: 1830, 2.70 inches; 1831, 3.00; 1832 23,1833, 3.35; 1834, 5:10; 1835, 2.70; 1836, 3.80; 1837, 2; 1838, 38.60; 1839, 3; and in 1840, 6.75 inches.
The last noted rain, in 1840, was nearly equal to the greatest monthly fall at San Francisco. That of 1834, being upwards of five inches, fell in the space of two hours. Compared with deluges such as these, the rains of California are but gentle showers.
The winter of 1849-’50, according to the representations of those who then resided here, was a season of continual ourpourings, not excelled since the forty days and forty nights of primeval times. They

<<<Page: 509>>>

tell us the water came down not in drops but in streams, and that the streets of the city were converted into flowing rivers and fathomless quag-mires. The tubs and casks that were left out at night were always found full and overflowing next morning. Unfortunately, there was no rain-guage to verify these statements. Doubtless the rains were copious at that time, probably much more so than since. But the doleful traditions respecting them may be referred in part to the absence of comfortable defences against the elements. The early settlers had to reside in tents, or beneath cribriform roofs, and tread in unplanked and submerged paths. These circumstances magnified and multiplied the falling drops, and penetrated the sufferers with indelible hydropathic impressions. Hence the rainy winter of 1849-50 is uniformly dwelt on with great pathos and eloquence by those who endured it.
The question may i arise, Whether the floods that occurred in March, 1852, did not require a larger supply of rain than fell at San Francisco. But those who have not investigated the subject can form no adequate idea of the immense quantity of water requisite to make an inch of rain. Let us suppose the river Sacramento to drain a surface of one thousand square miles, and the channel at Sacramento to be 200 yards wide. Through this channel let one inch of rain be required to drain off in 24 hours, with a current of four miles an hour. It is easily calculated that one inch of rain, falling on a surface of one thousand square miles, would, under such circumstances, raise the river eight feet and keep it. at that height 24 hours.
The presence of a few inches of snow, with the subjacent earth trozen, so as to prevent it from imbibing, will greatly enhance the diluvial effects of even a moderate rain. The snow, first absorbs the water and retains it until fully saturated, and then the entire mass rapidly liquifies and flows off: This was the case in the freshets that were precipitated from the mountains and hills of Californiain March last. One of the most destructive floods that ever occurred in eastern Pennsylvania was occasioned bya warm rain of less than two inches, which fell when the ground was frozen and covered with three or four inches of saow.
It is one striking feature of the winter of California, that when the weather puts on its rainy habit, the rai continues every day for an indefinite period; and when it ceases, there is an entire absence of rain for a long time. Thus, after three days of rain in the first week of December, 1851, the sky was perfectly clear for 13 days. ‘Then, beginning with the 19th, rain fell every day for 15 days, or until the end of the month. After this it continued clear for nearly two months, there being but four slight rains in January, and two in F ebruary, until the 2dth of the latter month, when the rainy diathesis again developed, and rain fell daily for 12 days. After the LOth of March, there were but four rains for more than a month.
There appear to be two rainy seasons, rather than one—something like the early and later rains of Palestine. The one takes place in the latter part of November or December, when the sea winds relinquish their sway, and the other in March, when they are about to resume their authority. Between those periods there is an interregnum of dry weather.

<<<Page: 510>>>

_ By adding together the number of rainy daysin December 1850 and’51, and so of the corresponding months of the two seasons, the two rainy
ro) periods and the intervening period of drought are rendered more conspicuous. December 1850 and’51. Days of rain, 19, quantity 8.23 inches. January 1851 and’52. iy 8, ee 1.23 és February 1851 and’62. oe 8, sé 0.47 me March 1851 and ’52. 6“ 93, bs 8.98 “
Thus in the four months embracing the early and later periods in the two seasons, there were 42 days of rain, and 16$ inches, while in the four intermediate months there were only 16 days of rain, and rather less than one inch and three quarters !
Dr. Abbott’s journal, at Camp Far West, exhibits the same thing, though to a less extent. In that locality the early rains were continued into January. But February was a dry month. That the rule is general from year to year, the data are not sufficiently extended to warrant me in declaring ; but the facts evidently tend to that conclusion. I am informed that the month of February was dry, in the memorable winter of 1849-50, at San Francisco.
There were 53 days of rain in 1851, at San Francisco, and at Camp Far West, 62 in 1850, and 68 in 1851. In the Atlantic States the average number of days of rain in the year is about 100.
The average quantity of water for each day of rain at San Francisco, during the period embraced by the table, was about one fourth of an inch. At Camp Far West it was something more. The average in the Atlantic States is about twice that amount.
The rains in Calitornia are extremely irregular, falling almost invariably in showers. A settled and uniform fall of rain for twenty-four hours, or for even twelve hours, would be a strange occurrence. The southeast storms are the longest, but they seldom last many hours ; or at least the rain does not, though the wind may continue. It seldom rains for two consecutive minutes with uniform rapidity. Often, in the space of one minute, there are several distinct showers. The sun breaks forth frequently in the midst of a shower, and directly the sky is almost clear. Presently, when you have no suspicion, you hear the rain on the roof with the suddenness of a shower-bath. ‘These extemporaneous outpourings come from the west, and are always transient.
The night is more favorable to rain than the day. No matter how dense the clouds, how fair the wind, and how resolute the barometer in its promise of falling weather, the sun rarely fails to break up the arrangements towards noon, and to tumble the dense vapor into confused masses. [I am informed by Robert Lammont, Esq., who was engaged in grading the streets of the city in the pluvious winter aforesaid, that the men in his employ were forced to suspend their labors for only four entire days in the whole time.
The entire season, with all itsrains, isreally delightful. [tis not winter, but spring. The grass starts, and the flowers begin to blow on the hills as soon as the early rains have moistened the soil. In January nature wears her green uniform, studded with floral jewels. As spring advances the blossoms increase in variety and profusion, until their yellow

<<<Page: 511>>>

carpeting shows on the hills at the distance of five miles. With the drought of June comes the winter of vegetation.
I have something more to say in regard to the course of the winds and clouds during rain, and on the subject of mists and dews.
No. 5.—RAIN, STORMS, CLOUDS, AND MISTS.
In my last article I inquired whe'her moderate rains, such as have fallen at San Francisco, would be adequate to the production of the floods of last March; and I stated that a single inch of rain, poured into
the river from a surface of 1,000 square miles, and forming a current of
four miles an hour, would raise the river at Sacramento to eight feet, and keep it at that height 24 hours. When we consider that the Sacramento really drains something like 15,000 square miles, before reaching the city, we find no difficulty in accounting for the freshets without supposing an extraordinary fall of water. In the five days from the 5th to the 9th of March, there fell five inches of water at San Francisco. Suppose the same quantity throughout the State, and four fifths of it to sink into the earth, the remaining fifth, equal to one inch, running off, and requiring an entire week in the drainage. With a channel at Sacramento 200 yards wide, and a current of four miles an hour, the river would be raised seventeen feet, and kept at that height a whole week! With these data in mind, there is no difficulty in comprehending the great effects of even moderate rains in producing freshets, especially when the melting snows add to the supply.
The table contained in my last article shows that thenumber of days entirely or nearly clear, from sunrise to sunset, in the year 1851, was 134. This is not very different from the Atlantic States. At Philadelphia the number varies from 100 to 140, with an average of 125.
Owing to the many days that are partly clear, the number entirely clear does not present a criterion of the proportion of clear weather. By taking also into consideration the days that were clear in part, we find, as the table exhibits, the proportion of clear weather to cloudy, in the year, to be 262 to 103. The ratio at Philadelphia is about 220 to 145. 'The sky is therefore less clouded at San Francisco than on the Atlantic border.
I have already noticed the inconstant character of the clouds, the sky being seldom completely clouded for 12 hours, even in the rainiest period. The number of days in the year entirely cloudy, from the rising to the setting of the sun, was 18. At Philadelphia 50 is a very low number, and there are often 75. Seldom does any month of the year elapse in the Atlantic States without one or more days perfectly cloudy. At San Francisco there were but three such days in the six months from May to October. On most of the 18 days set down as entirely cloudy, the clouds were at times sufficiently broken to render the sun visible. It is an extraordinary circumstance for the sun to make his day’s journey without showing his face.
The chilling mists of summer, conspiring with the wind and dust, leave on one’s mind impressions not the most agreeable or evanescent}

<<<Page: 512>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 4 2a
but, after all, the weather is not so misty as might be supposed. By referring to the table given in my last paper, the misty weather appears to have been distributed as follows, in the fgur seasons of the year:
WV nite beeen pee ce = 13 mornings, 5 afternoons, 7 evenings. OPIN Ore asa. & (oe 9 do. 3 do. 4. do. Siitaahs creyee ta eee eee do. sia) do. 34 do.
Anite ete aos HO do. 4 do. 9 do.
It should be noticed that the mornings were seldom misty for more than an hour or two after sunrise, and the afternoons not often misty throughout. The mist generally comes in detached clouds, driven by the wind, and sometimes in a universal stratum. Nearly always gravitates seusibly towards the earth, in the form of a very fine al occasionally wetting the surface.
In the entire year r there was mist on 27 mornings, 21 afternoons, and 45 evenings. At Philadelphia the average is about 20 mornings, 5 afternoons, all 10 evenings.
The tendency to the production of mist reaches its height in July. There were 19 foggy evenings in that month. The winter months, however, were most productive of mist in the morning. In the summer months there was but one foggy morning.
I now come to speak of the direction of the wind and clouds during the rains. In the sixteen months ending with March, 1852, and consequently embracing the greater part of two rainy seasons, there were 79 days on which rain fell, with the wind as follows:
East 0, northeast 2, north 2, northwest 6, west 8, southwest 17, south 20, southeast 24.
Or, the classification may stand thus:
astra ndEnOnIMeast icles eer ots Us has Se Tt 2 INGrthitam@amonumwest 22 Sees Outs es! es Dees ea eee 8 West anumsouihweste 2.2. Jogbe Ske a bee Set 25 South ana southeast. “Ged. OS lapse ete pant Ee pea re 44.
Thus, from east and northeast, emphatically the ramy quarter in the Atlantic States, there was scarcely any rain. More than half the rains came from south and southeast. ‘The rainiest point is in a direct line with the southern coast, or about south-southeast.
The easterly storms, which form so prominent a feature of the Atlantic climate, are unknown here. There is nothing that bears a resemblance to them. The rains from southeast are often attended by high gales, which extend over a large portion of the western coast of North ee ica. and inflict some injury on shipping. But these gales are less violent than the most severe easterly storms of the Atlantic coast.
The direction of the cloud producing the rain is often of greater importance than that of the lower atmospheric current. There are mostly two strata of clouds, the lower concurring with the wind on the earth’s surface, and seldom supplying rain, and “the higher, which is the true rain-cloud, varying in its course from the lower, “and sometimes having the very opposite direction.

<<<Page: 513>>>

In the 67 rains which furnished an opportunity of observing the upper cloud, its course was as follows:
Northeast {2.282202 2) ii AS URL UBP Bide 0578 21 AE GS at North andwortwest: 2. 0... ok Lee 8... yh eer 7 Bei Sh RS cy Si pA AM sh als "7s Pu Meh 16 DGuueciee ss Doce so ae hk no eepee is eee A ap pS Oi) Din SS abe ee A Fe le tM on Le 14 Soutmeast.._.....--Sera et ah IR RN yl sea 6
These resuits concur with observations made in the Atlantic States, showing that the higher strata of atmosphere which sweep northward from the equatorial region, saturated with aqueous vapor, are the principal source of rain in the temperate latitudes.
In the following table is recorded the number of days in each month on which clouds were observed in the lower and higher strata of atmosphere, the first column referring to the lower clouds, and the second to the higher. In the other columns is noted the direction of the higher clouds, as far as observed. The direction of the lower clouds, which mostly move with the wind near the earth’s surface, is omitted.
Months. Low. |High.| N. |N.E.| E. |S.E.| S. |S.W.! W. |W. 1850. | December........ es) 717 D3 T Meteors lers|siolere\eie|sieleisieis 4 AT || Starcteiare| | Ore sl atotavetets 1851. | | AMULET! eiele cioqe siaie'e LS ene NOs ee lae We ae eRe eB LE 3 6 dO, Pale hoes Bebrearyacws sae. 5 0,0 et ee Heber Sachs alietelerers 3 rhea pati 7 Warchiy qoris cise «1s siels | OB! Ul sverere/slerstehevers| staicveters|etetelaters 4 ST eB 3 Apis aces ets os stsie 2M oe aed D> Aliaiaielns| QS dive cave es el 1 IN Tavira cote 'sore Sie.e a0)e:0/c| 26 AE Solahs ete 1 Be Whodot Ale Sal sjoretetal s 2 Fume eset els ats |. Gc |p as idee deans SP us aan Neth Yi Hoey 3 1% | Mallya ctazesersstaroreisies. cYers 28 Se boeoode sooojbaoe ° 1 1 oaosc iin 1 Ag ste= «e's Re rets shal uel DO uel. dLdiead levetotetets leks akatets oteeveusis eee 3 Q Aine BSc September.......... OOF | Dds ihre sraca tlevelee chetesa sei rommetereln al 8 | Pte S vhost Octoberepes cima Di AD ee oe I ey eee pee lSeferenexe Sart wd) OF cas 5 November.......... | 20 ror aoc Ly SHE eS Qi) Mee 7 December se eetactvsse|4 19 SL G evsrotetels Daal eretetslete | MEEOLEMIS || D 7 4 7 1852. | | January . 2.4 se/oiee Siete] 22}, 29 3 UPN Ere rcicrs 4 1, way 7 1 Mebruary:.2% <1 serine 21 Pe alle ven 4 1 1 4 |.ccece 10 3 Marchi steer seieistel ance Ooi laseit Al al Ub ecdadeecdar aa 11 | 4 2 Totals see eeieeee PTO. eae Go) Ol | ad RS) eae
The higher cloud was, in the majority of cases, a light cirrhus, often very partial, or seen only in the horizon, and composed probably of congealed vapor, at an elevation of two or three miles. In other cases it was a cirro-cumulus, or a nimboid-cumulus. In almost every month of the year, even during the dry season, the clouds put on the appearance of rain and then vanish. It is evident that the pnenomena which produce rains in other climates are present in this, but not quite in sufficient degree to accomplish the result, except during the rainy season, and then only by paroxysms, with intervening periods of drought.
The table shows the presence of an upper cloud on 260 days of the year 1851, and a lower cloud on 278 days. The lower cloud was

<<<Page: 514>>>

deficient most frequently in the rainy season, but present almost daily in the dry season. The upper cloud was most wanting in the dry season, especially in July.
The higher currents of the atmosphere, as indicated by the clouds, pursue the same general course as in the Atlantic States. They show the prevalence of an almost constant stream from the tropical regions, traceable to the action of the sun, which heats and rarefies the air within the tropics, and causes it to ascend and pour over towards the poles. Starting northward, the current comes over portions of the earth having a slower rotary motion, and is thus deflected from a due north course, becoming a southwesterly instead of a south current.
No. 6.—REVIEW OF THE WEATHER FOR THE YEAR 1853.
The first part of January was cloudy and rainy, but after the 11th the weather was mostly clear and charming, only one rain occurring in the last two weeks. ‘The lowest temperature was 41, and the highest 62. The mean at sunrise was 473 and at noon 563. The prevailing winds were very light from north and northwest. There were nine days entirely clear and four days entirely cloudy. January, 1852, was colder, having five mornings below 41; January, 1851, was much colder, having thirteen mornings below that point. Both these months were dry, scarcely any rain falling. But the first two weeks of January, 1852, were rainy ; the remainder of the month dry. Sacramento city was drowned on the first of the month. In January, 1851, there was three-quarters inch of rain; 1852, halfinch; and 1853, four inches.
February, for the first three weeks, the weather was superb. Up to the 21st there were no less than seventeen days entirely clear. In the last week there were four rainy days, but in the whole month only one day was entirely cloudy. The temperature was delightful, the means at sunrise and noon being 48 and 60. The coldest morning 42, and the warmest noon 67. The prevailing winds were from north, northwest and west, and most light. The hills were covered with flowers. In February, 1852, there were four mornings colder than in this month, and in 1851, thirteen colder mornings. February appears to be always a dry month. In 1851 there was one-third inch of rain ; in 1852, half inch; in 1853, one inch.
March was mostly a pleasant month, with several moderate rains towards the middle, and three days of heavy rain in the last week. The prevailing winds were from west, northwest, and north, with an increasing tendency to west, and increasing force. The minimum temperature was 41, and the maximum 77; mean at sunrise 494, and at noon 62. The first week of the month was very warm. On the 15th, Mount Diablo was covered with snow, as mostly happens towards the end of March. There is commonly considerable rain in this month. In the dry winter of 1851 there was two inches; in 1852, six and a half inches; in 1853, five inches.
April was a pleasant month, with winds generally from west and

<<<Page: 515>>>

northwest, and frequent light sea breezes. ‘Temperature agreeable, varying from 46 to 56 at sunrise, and from 59 to 75 at noon; means at sunrise and noon 52 and 65. The heaviest rain for several years fell on the night of the 16th, viz: upwards of three inches in twelve hours. The only thunder of the season occurred during this rain. April mostly gives us some days of rainy weather. In 1851 an inch of rain fell; in 1852, only quarter of an inch; in 1853, five inches. The coldest morning was 46.° In 1851 there were five colder mornings, and in 1852 eighteen. Dry and cold weather go together in our winters.
May was generally warm and pleasant; the coldest morning being A7 and the warmest 62, while the coldest noon was 61 and the warmest Sl. The means at sunrise and noon were 53$ and 68. The wind settled in the western quarter, and increased in force, though not offensively high. There were several slight rains, with a large portion of cloudy and broken weather. The clouds always give their parting blessing:in May. In 1851, there fell three fourths inch of rain; in 1852, one third inch; and in 1853, one third inch.
June was uncommonly warm; the mercury ranging from 49 to 60 at sunrise, and from 60 to 84 at noon. The sea winds were constant, but not often fraught with mist. The sky was unusually clear for summer.
The weather of July was uniform; varying in temperature at sunrise from 50 to 55, and at noon from 63 to 78. The means at sunrise and noon were 524 and 68. Cloudy and misty weather prevailed, and there were but four days of clear sky from sunrise to sunset.
August was a cloudy and misty month; but less so than July. Its temperature also was very uniform, ranging at sunrise from 51 to 56 and at noon from 63 to 76. The means at sunrise and noon were 5d and 67. 'The sea winds, though constant, were not often high.
In the three summer months of 1851, there were four misty mornings and 33 misty evenings; in 1852, 7 mornings and 27 evenings ; and in 1853, 15 mornings and 36 evenings misty.
September was rather pleasant, affording one or two days really hot. The morning extremes were 50 and 60, and the noon extremes 63 and 88. The sea winds continued their daily visits with diminished force ; and there was much cloudy and broken weather, with two small rains near the middle of the month. The means at sunrise and noon were 55 and 70. September usually brings a day or two of light rain. One inch fell in 1851, a few drops only in 1852, and the eighth of an ine in 1853.
October was, as usual, warmer than several of the previous months. The coldest morning was 49 and the warmest 64; the coldest noon 60 and the warmest 85. The means at sunrise and noon were 544 and 71. During this month the sea winds began to give out. The sky was generally fair; and one slight rain fell, amounting to 1-10 inch. In October, 1851, there was 2-l0th inch; and in 1852, three fourths inch.
November placed the usual embargo on the sea winds. ‘The temperature was moderate—a few slight frosts occurring. The coldest morning was 44 and the warmest 59; the coldest noon 55 and the

<<<Page: 516>>>

warmest 73. The means at sunrise and noon were 51 and 63. There was much cloudy weather, with occasional moderate rains. The prevailing winds were from west and south. The first southeasterly storm, in °51, was on the 8th; in ’52, on the 13th; and in ’53, on the 16th. Quantity of rain in the three years, respectively, 2 inches, 5$ inches, and 14 inches.
December was more pleasant than common. ‘The coldest morning was 40 and the warmest 54; the coldest noon 50 and the warmest 69. The means at sunrise and noon were 46 and 574. Hoar frosts were frequent; but the cold was not sufficient to injure vegetation. A copious rain fell on the 10th, and several light rains at other times. Prevailing winds from north, northwest, northeast, and south. ‘Thunder was heard on the 10th, for the second time in the year. In December ’50, there fell 1 inch of rains ’51, 7 inches; 752, 12 inches— the greatest quantity in any one month for three years and more ; in 753, 2 inches.
The summing up for the year 1853 exhibits a mean temperature of 514 at sunrise, and 65 at noon, which is warmer by two degrees than either 1851 or 1852. The lowest point reached by the mercury was 40—or eight degrees above the freezing point. The extreme of heat was 88. In 1852, the extremes were 35 and 98; in 1851, 30 and 84; and in December, 1850, the thermometer fell as low as 28. The amount of rain in each month of 1853 was, in round numbers, as follows: January, on eight days, 4 inches; February, four days, 1 inch ; March, six days, 5 inches; April, eight days, 5 inches; May, three days, 4 inch; June, July, and August, none; September, two days, ¢ inch; October, one day, 1-10 inch; November, eight days, 1 inches ; December, six days, 2 inches; making, in the year, forty-four days on which rain fell, to the depth of 19 inches. In 1851, there was rain on fifty-three days—quantity, 15 inches; in 1852, on sixty days—quantity, 254 inches. From the first of January, 1853, to the dry season, the quantity was 164 inches; and from the dry season to the end of the year, 34 inches. The last rain of the spring was May 24th, and the first of the autumn was September 15th. The hills began to look green in the last week of November, and at the close of the year at least thirty species of plants were in bloom around the city, some of them the lingering flowers of summer, and a few the products of a new growth. There were two small specimens of thunder during the year, none of the aurora borealis, and a considerable sprinkling of meteors in the second week of August, and also in the fourth week of November.

<<<Page: 517>>>

No. 7.—THE WEATHER OF FEBRUARY, 1854.
The subjoined figures will enable the reader to compare this month with the corresponding months of 1851, 1852, and 1853:
1851. 1852. 1853. 1854. Mean temperature at sunrise......-41.97 45.69 48.18 A7.93 Mean temperature at noon...-..-+e60.03 60.41 60.07 59.21 Mean temperature at 10 o’clock p. m..| 43.64 49 .59 | 51.00 49.07 Monthly temperature.....+..seeeees 51.00 53.05 | 54.13 5a sot Maximum... .cesccccccssescsrecccs 71.00 65.00 67.00 69.00 Minimum... ....eesecccccrccccceees 33.00 40.00 42.00 38.00 IReniig}s doeo GOO cD OUOOC OG MD OnOC 38.00 25.00 25.00 31.00 Clear, (proportion, ).. «00 c2esecee. 23 days. 21 days. 22 days. 15 days. Cloudy, (proportion,)......essessee. 5 days 8 days | 6 days 13 days Whole days clear. .......eecccesees 14 days 5 days | 17 days 5 days. Rain On ..cccccscccccrecccccccssens 4 days. 4 days. 4 days. 13 days. Quantity. .ccccrccccerccivesrescescs 0.35inch. | 0.12inch. | 1.16inch. | 8.41 inch. North and northwest winds..........| 9 days. 6 days. 10 days. 8 days. Northeast and east winds ........... 2 days. 3 days. 1 day. 2 days. South and southeast winds.......... 5 days. 4 days. 8 days, 8 days. Southwest and west winds.......... 12 days. 16 days. 9 days. 10 days. ENT a DY Winds v2). cfsl etc 0's lotsicletec's ie 0! sivis iavels O days. | 0 days. 0 days. 1 day.
The temperature of the month was about the medium standard. At sunrise it was not nearly so cold as 1851, but at noon it was rather below either of the other years, owing to the large number of cloudy and rainy days, which are apt to be cool at noon. On three or four mornings there were slight frosts. In the middle of the month, and again on the 28th, the coast mountains were seen covered with snow, as they mostly are when the rains at this point are accompanied with a temperature below 50. The most extraordinary feature of the month was the quantity of rain. February is usually a dry month, but this year it was the exact reverse. In February, 1851, the quantity was 0.35 inches; February, 1852, 0.12 inches ; February, 1853, 1.16 inches ; making in three months an aggregate of 1.63 inches, or less than one-fifth of the supply for the month just past. In the three years just mentioned, the greatest monthly supplies of rain were as follows: December, 1851, 7.07 inches; March, 1852, 6.40 inches ; November, 1852, 5.31 inches ; December, 1852, 11.90 inches ; April, 1853, 5.05 inches. Thus it appears that February of the present year exceeded any other month in that period, except December, 1852.
Up to the first of March, the quantity of rain since the dry’season was 16.26 inches. At the same date in 1851, the quantity was 3.40 inches 3 in 1852, 11.11 inches; and in 1853, 23.28 inches. The rains of this winter, therefore, though much greater than those of 1851 and 1852, have been but little over two-thirds of last winter’s supply at this date. Subsequent to this date in 1851, and before the dry season, rain fell on twenty days, quantity 3.71 inches; in 1852, on eighteen days, 6.89 inches ; in 1853, on seventeen days, 10.18 inches. From these data we may infer that our rains are by no means at an end.

<<<Page: 518>>>

Owing to the cold and wet weather, vegetation is very backward, having scarcely moved since the first of January. On the 15th of February, 1852, I found sixteen species of plants in bloom on the hills west of the city; and on the 22d I gathered forty-three species on a walk to the fort at the entrance of the bay. Last year, also, the country was covered with flowers in February. But this spring scarcely a flower has made its appearance. The spring of 1851 was equally backward, on account both of cold and of drought.
No. 8.—THE CLIMATE OF SAN FRANCISCO FOR THE YEAR 1854.
The year began with very fine weather. On the fifth was a severe norther, which damaged the shipping in the harbor. A few cold mornings followed, and on the 12th the rains set in. From that date to the 24th, rain fell on nine days to the depth of four and a quarter inches. The rains were cold and several times accompanied with hail, and snow covered the distant mountains. The coldest weather on my record was at this time. On the 19th, 20th, and 21st, the thermometer stood at 31, 25, and 31. At noor on the 20th it rose no higher than 37. The mud was frozen solid so as to bear the heaviest wagons. Of course, the oldest inhabitant had never seen the like. In December, 1850, it was nearly as cold, the mercury then falling to 27. The month wound up with a few very warm days. The mean temperature at sunrise was 42.26, at 9 a. Mm. 45.71, at noon 54.23, at 10 p.m. 45.26, being the coldest month on my book; that is, since the winter of 184950. The greatest heat was 69, and the extreme of cold 25. The prevailing winds were north, northeast, and northwest.
It should be mentioned, as a rare phenomenon, that hail fell on the morning of the 15th so as to cover the ground and to lay for an hour. In the es of 1849-50 the ground was covered with hail or snow in like manner.
February was rather warm. The mean at sunrise was 47.93, at 9 a. Mm. 50.86, at noon 59.2], and at 10 p.m. 49.07. The extreme of heat was 69, of cold 38. Rain fell on no less than thirteen days, and in the quantity of 8.41 inches—the greatest quantity in any month on my record, excepting December, 1852, when there was nearly twelve inches. ‘This is the more remarkable as February is usually a dry month. On the 12th, hail fell in a heavy shower so copiously that it could be gathered by the bucketfull where it collected from the roofs. The prevailing winds were from west, south, northwest, and north, in the order named as to frequency. Our high wind occurred from southsoutheast.
March was of moderate temperature. The mean at sunrise was 47.23, at 9 a.m. 52.06, at noon 60.97, at 10 vp. m. 49.45. The extreme of hehe was 72, of cold 38. Rain fell on ten days 3.17 inches—a moderate supply for March. Most of the rain was during a cold storm on the 13th, 14th, and 15th, the wind blowing moderately part of the time from northeast, which is a rare Hireetion for a rain wind. The westerly winds increased in frequency, as usual in this month. Those

<<<Page: 519>>>

from south, northwest, and north, divided among them one half the month. There were no high winds.
The warmest April oa my book was that of 1854. ‘The mean at sunrise was 51.10, 9 a. m. 59.83, noon 68.43, 10 ep. m. 52.90. The extreme heat was 83, of cold 45. Rain on 6 days, 3.31 inches, nearly two inches of which fell on the 28th,—the last rain of the season. The sea breeze came nearly every day, though with moderate force. On 10 days the winds were from other quarters than west. During this month the hills and fields assumed the gorgeous array of flowers which marks a California landscape in the spring.
May was a very unpleasant month, cold and windy, olten cloudy and threatening rain. On one day only was there rain, and then but two-hundredths of an inch, in the form of mist. The mean temperature at sunrise was 48.95, at 9 a. m. 59.00, at noon 64.61, at 10 ep. m. 50.68—being three degrees below April. The mercury rose no higher than 73, and the lowest extreme was 43. There were light frosts on several mornings, and vegetation advanced tardily. Potatoes of the season’s erowth appeared in the market on the Ist. A hail storm occurred at Sacramento on the 6th. The winds were westerly on 25 days. On 8 days they were high.
June, also, was a cold month, rather below April in temperature. Mean at sunrise 50.10, 9 a. m. 61.83, noon 66.80, 10 p. Mm. 51.50. The warmest day was 74, and the coldest morning 47. There was an uuusual tendency to rain, and several times a few large drops deigned to violate the law of the season. On the 17th it rammed moderately for two hours, four-tenths of an inch collecting in the guage. On the 13th was a heavy storm of rain and hail in Utah. On 23 days the wind was west, and on tour northwest. It was high on eight days.
July was rather above the average tempe Eee. The means were, at sunrise 51.87, 9 a. m. 63.94, noon 70.65, 10 p. Mm. 54.16. In the three years preceding, the mercury had not reached 80 in July, but in this year it was at or Abas 80 on four days, and on one day as high as 87, which is near the extreme heat of our climate. The lowest extreme was 46. The first week was beautifully clear, but afterwards there was scarcely a morning or evening without cloud and mist. The wind was constantly west, and on six days it was high.
August was a trifle below the average temperature. Mean at sunrise 52 42, 9 a. M. 62.39, noon 68.29, 10 p.m. 53. 81. There were two days above 80, the highest being 85. ‘The minimum temperature was 50. Almost every atternoon was windy, and though the wind was high on one day only, yet the weather was about as ‘unpleasant as our summer climate can afford. The mornings were generally cloudy and the evenings misty. A light shower of rain fell on the 27th. At Los Angeles and San Die go it rained heavily on the 20th and 21st, and on the Trinity river there was a thunder storm on the 26th, with heavy rain and snow on the mountain peaks.
September, commonly the warmest month in the year, was nearly as cold as August. Mean at sunrise 53.30, 9 a. m. 61.43, noon 67.73, 10 p.m. 54.40. There were two warm days, on one of which the mercury rose to 87. The greatest depression was 46. Cloudy mornings and misty evenings prevailed, and the sea breeze blew with great

<<<Page: 520>>>

constancy and with more force than usual in September. This month seldom passes without rain, but on the present occasion the only rain was a trifling shower on the 15th. ‘There was a heavy rain at Los Angeles about the same time.
The weather of October was generally agreeable. Mean temperature at sunrise, 53.32; 9 a. m., 60.97; noon, 68.13; 10 p. m., 55.42. There ~ were three days above 80, the warmest being 83. The minimum temperature was 46. It was the warmest month of the year, except July. The winds were light, and distributed to west, northwest, north, and south, the first predominating. The most extraordinary feature of the month was its frequent rains. ain fell on no less than 10 days; quantity 2.12 inches. The first rain was on the 4th. At Marysville the ground was covered with hail on the 23d. At the close of the month the hills around the city began to look green, and the wise men predicted a very rainy winter.
The climate of November was very fine. Mean at sunrise, 50.67; 9 A. M., 55.97; noon, 65.13; 10 Pp. m., 53.00. The extremes were 72 and 47. 'The mornings ranged from 47 to 55, and the noondays from 58 to 72. ‘The winds were from west, northwest, and north, and gentle as zephyrs. ‘The sky was almost uninterruptedly clear. A single rain fell, amounting to four tenths of an inch; and the wise men reversed their prediction and promised a very dry winter instead of a wet one.
December furnished a continuation of the fine weather of November, with a decline of temperature corresponding to the season. Mean at sunrise, 47.03; 9 a.m., 51.323 noon, 60.65; 10 p.m., 49.39. There were a number of slight frosts, and ice formed in favorable situations, though the minimum temperature was 38. The warmest day was 71. The most gentle breezes prevailed from north, northeast, and northwest. There were 15 days entirely clear. <A trifling rain, .08 inches, fell on the 3d, and no more until the 3lst, when a rain storm set in, which was quickly handed over to the new year, leaving three tenths of an inch to December. .
The mean temperature of the whole year sums up as follows: Sunrise, 49.68; 9 a. m., 57.11; noon, 64.57; 10 p..m., 51.76. The mean of the sunrise and noon observations gives the figure for the year, 57.13. The temperature for 1851, deduced in the same way, was 06.57; 1852, 06.53; and 1853, 58.51. The year 1853 appears to have been unusually warm. ‘Taking 1854 as a fair representation of the climate of San Francisco, it follows that our climate is two or three degrees warmer than that of the corresponding latitude on the Atlantic coast, though it does not exhibit the extremes either of heat or cold incident to the latter.
The extreme of heat in 1854 was 87. There were only twelve days in the year at or above 80, of which one was in April, four in July, two in August, two in September, and three in October. In 1851 there were nine days at or above 80; in 1852, thirteen; and in 1853, eleven.
The extreme of cold was 25. There were three days in the year when the mercury fell to the freezing point, all in January. In 1851, the thermometer fell to the freezing point on one day only; in 1852, 35 was the lowest depression ; and in 1853, it did not sink below 40,
The warmest month in the year was July, then October, then Sep-
Mis. Doc. 24——17

<<<Page: 521>>>

tember, then August, then April, and June stands the sixth in order, and only two degrees above November. In neither of the three years preceding was July the warmest month. In 1851 the warmest months occurred in the following order: August, October, September, June, July, April. In 1852: September, July, August, June, October, Noee In 1853: October, September, June, “May, July, August. To the daily visitations of the cold ocean wind in the summer is owing this great variation from the order of the months as to comparative temperature in other climates.
January was the coldest month, then Febri uary, then December, and next March. In other years, December sometimes takes the precedence of January. February, which in the Atlantic States is often the coldest month in the year, is not so here.
Rain fell on 54 days in the year, 22.12 inches in depth. This is our average supply, though only half the quantity that falls in the Atlantic States. In 1853, the quantity was 19.03 inches; in 1852, 25.60 inches ; and in 1851, only 15.12 inches. The old inhabitants tell of occasional seasons when scarcely any rain has fallen, and when the cattle have perished from want. Such very dry seasons are said to recur at intervals of eight or ten years.
The greatest amount of rain was in February, next comes January, next April, then March. This differs from the ordinary arrangement. Taking the last four years into view, December gives the most rain, and March comes next, while the intervening months are comparatively dry. In fact,,.we have the early rains, beginning i in November and continuing through December into the early part of January; and the later rains, “beginning i in March, and continuing at times through April.
Lightning is seen at San Francisco on an averege three or four times
a year, and thunder is heard less frequently. On the L5th January, Aashes of metime were observed in the evening, during a cold rain storm from the south; and on the 22d February, under similar cireumstances, lightning was again noticed. But no thunder was audible in either case; nor was there any further exhibition of atmospheric electricity during the year. There was thunder three times in 18951, five times in 1852, and twice in 1853.
No exhibition of auroral light was observed in the year. Since my residence here, from August, }850, I have seen the aurora borealis only on two occasions, once in January and once in February, in the year 1852.
There was no unusual display of shooting stars during the year. In September, Loom August, 1852, and in August, 1853, they were numerous for several nights i in succession.
Earthquake shocks were distinctly felt on the mornings of the 9th of January and 21st of October.

<<<Page: 522>>>

[0° 66 [8° 66 Ov 0€
oom Oost
LT°0€ OL" 6G Ob 0€
€1°0€ OL" 6G cv’ Oe
-09q
aE oe eRe)
Paar} om
Ce el ork ke]
"ydeg
50° 0€ [6° 66 06° 0€
“Aque
‘oune
OO CO rm t= OO Te eS
‘Tdy
siercieze ie sicie eiei*e(ele sii 489 T}10 AT OLE OTS OC ECE ROC DITTO AMATSLAC | siocerel sjexexe/ieie) 70) /0, 926° S\UL AN ysvoy nog CARE OO ROE Aad acta 0.0 2 yywnosg See ee ne te SD UIAK JSOMYNOG tare erelaleokeie exe ale tws0\s\eZ018he ("TV TITAN, SONA tse ecesesescoes enum JOMYLON
Sie epe/0'e'e 0 sie se.Picrepecseseiere:s DITA YqIO NT
‘pur fo shng
soe cccceccsccccccesecegKepn AUILY Sein aie 640 /¢ie'e sien soe ss Kap ADROLO eparecie]= 0016s <)ejereleeis eseele NAC) Pa) F@)
DiC OCOD On OOOO OTOH
eee eee ete inate see, a aete ean ULE ELLLE COD EA |
oeteoeoeeeteeooe ese eo 6 oe UWINUIXe]Ay “LdJIULOWLIY T
eooeceeoe eee eee eee eer ee eeoeeee uvoyAy
sioloversie]s) 9501 0isexe) ehelaieerefs.*)*!otTNUITULTAT
ecereeeetoec eee cp ee ee so WMNUUX BA,
‘dW ‘uvsoT Ww svwoyy, ig “FGQT ‘Te yop Suapua anak ay) sof £ qaaf QE vas ay7 fo 202] 24) 2a0Qv wouna99 £189N ,G Qh oL SL apniusuop ‘y240U {7h FE oQe epniuy] ‘niusofyvg ‘ojuaunsovg of suorjoasasg”:) Joooopo1oajayy fo 19v.I8qR

<<<Page: 523>>>

Remarks.—By clear days is mea&t that no clouds were visible at the times of observation; by cloudy, that some were visible; and by rainy days, that some rain fell then, without reference to quantity. Not being provided in time with a suitable pluviometer, the quantity of rain cannot be put down in figures. The greatest amount that fell at any one period was on the 22d February, “after raining forty-eight hours without intermission. The last rain of the past season occurred on the 20th May, 1853. There was a slight sprinkle afterwards on the 26th June, and on the 17th and 21st July. The first rains of the present season occurred on the 15th September and 10th October. The regular rainy season, however, did not set in until the 14th November. About the middle of January the coast-range of mountains presented the novel appearance of being covered with snow. 'The degree of cold during this month was unprecedented. Not having a thermometrooraph, the minimum, which generally occurs shortly before sunrise, may not have been obtained. Sutter lake was frozen over on the 6th and on the 21st of January, and remained so all the day of the 22d. This degree of cold is one of those extraordinary occurrences which is sometimes experienced 1 in the most equable and genial climates. Thus, for instance, in 1507 the harbor of Marseilles was frozen over its whole extent; for which a cold of at least 0.49 was requisite. Again, in 1709, the Gulf of Venice, and harbors of Marseilles, Genoa, and Cette, were frozen over. Such irregular occurrences are caused by the long prevalence of particular winds, and should not be taken into computation in making an estimate of the mean annual temperature of any place. Notwithstanding, however, even the past extraordinary winter, we find the mean annual temperature of Sacramento vieing with the land of the olive and the vine. An isothermal line drawn across our continent, from this point, would deviate as many degrees to the south as from the western to the eastern side of the old content

<<<Page: 524>>>

201 £ £ £6 a £G IT eoereresis ee soees & I I ET oust exeleye ovessien,cxceceise:sie-e UTM. ISCOUTIONT, Or £ £ £T € [ £ £ £ eereee IT £T £ * €Steles eho dsleseneseepiezers ec uexe io 9 S* DUAN. IS BGT, 269 8 9 19 iV 16 zh L z01 eS eG. z& & owe See yee eens << PUP JeBen INOS £eg ze c Alt TI eeeoeene Ee c 8 G OL £8 G ie CeO EES eae ee ere * SPU INO ED), Cc c € ev ceeee £e 8 =OL 8 oh 2), £9 8 seieie ole eiei@ipierdie secre ON ITN =45O MU INO’ GG iT eoeenece = & val! z Ee i 2TI £ IT I eee Sielie: aioe: ef eleKe veliereteiaicieke) *s PULA IROTAAG GOL z01 Or &1 LI Z01 zh G 1G v a 9 Or ce eer ae ee oe (RUA SSO MU TION: 86 G iV 1G € 29 16 ral z i t I I reee Sug ace eee Sees eel MAU O NY —fo shng F9L'ST | 06°F 9F°€ L9°@ Ciel £9" 0 10°T ‘opyutids) 70°O ee el tO) 1G°0 os'T ENED Se ae ORI eS Se OBO OUT vs 8 6 c (fe G 6 I T eeeeee (A P 6 s(esigieieeieieisie eves 6.070 els RAG DIAUIR NY 96 €1 € RI 6 g OL € G P Vi t GL seccecccccreesecessoeceskep Apnog GIG Or 9T 8 61 0G GL 96 GG LG 0G £6 6 oS S:2ts9's ee see) ole\ seit Ae eae aL "TROT, —fo waquinar Cre el Sor LE’ lr 80°8& “6E CO'GP OV'ST 06° SP GG’ OS 6¢°T9 eereevoee ©8600 (6 8)}'0 ‘0/06 0.8'.0'6 ee a ECHL EO OD ees aes OUT ANE “RI ae “QT og | OSE PE ce. | OC OF ‘ep | octer sete eealeeeeeeeeleeeerentlene rere eeseeeerens seen s INU UlpAL "@9 “6¢ og‘ ts OS’ PT “69 0S’ 6P *G¢ Ba 64 67 0S°G9 “a9 eeeneeve e@eereeeveis eo eeeeee See eee eee ei aery see OULU XC TAT, fo) fe) fo) fo) fe) fo) fe) fe) fo) fo) fe) fe) fe) Cts MALE & 08" 6S G8'rg | OS’sc | IL’€h | €6°LF | Go's | 10°09 | SO°S9 | LP°69 | £9°08 “LO “69 0 Oma wehoente eer es ee BRIN “1% Th te aia 6% ‘FP CF “OP ‘ze | eLtae 6h OF Gp [tccet cece cere see cece ee UNTO OS’ LOL SOs “OL aa!) “a9 GL “06 “06 “66 0S’ TOL “06 So "SL suenerelere:elexe prendienereiasecevel ssc! ee WNUK: fe) ° 12) ° 1e) 1e) {e) fe) 12) fe) O° 1e) (@) *LaJIULOWLLaY, TF 86° 6G CMEC sy |SCL 166=2|s66266..|-69: 6624] IGZ 06 "| -ETS06.|shO708= 1 S0" 06 | 80°08 =| 80°08 C0 OE -| O08 "8 Stet oe ee Toes Ss SOUS TN “66 GS°6G | 0S°6G | FF'6G | 89°6G | SO'OE | €8°6G | S8°6G | 08°66 | S8°6G | 06°66 BOG a eG OeOGro| te ees ee he eae gee eee pC cy 0€ VOLOG. |UCLZOG es PEL0Se 196 0G. |°SE"08.. | OG206>. 06:06 =) 0c°0E || ST°08. -) G60E_| BG" OE | SHOE. | ‘ATn¢ ‘oune ‘Avy | cpady "CG,-PS8I
‘TW ‘uvsoT ‘pr snwoyy, ig
“GGRT ‘Te youvyy Surpua avah ay2 sof ‘mrusofyny ‘ojusupsong sof ajqv) 1n9180]0.L09/

<<<Page: 525>>>

Remarks.—By clear days is meant that no clouds were visible at the times of observation; by cloudy, that some were visible ; and by rainy days, that some rain fell, without reference to quantity. The heaviest rain of the year commenced falling at noon, on the 27th February, and continued without intermission until 10, p. m., of the 28th, measuring 2.10 inches. The last rain of the past season occurred on the 17th June, 1854, and amounted to 0.20 inches. The first rain of the present season was on the 4th October, when 0.14 inches fell. Thus far the present has been a comparatively dry season. The Sacramento river remained at a very low stage until 15th March, when it rose 20 feet 24 inches above low-water mark; since which time it has been gradually falling. The 13th July was the hottest day experienced during the year, and, indeed, since the settlement of the country. The thermometer was observed, in some less favored situations than ours, at 107°, at the hottest time of the day. The mean temperature of the hottest part of the day for the week ending July L5th was 97°. The night of the 6th August was the hottest as yet noticed in the country; the thermometer standing at 82° at 10 o’clock, p. m., and 70° at sunrise. The weather during the whole winter was mild, dry, and pleasant; and the spring opened early. On the 1st February, the cowslip was observed in profuse blossom on the surrounding plains; on the 15th, the wild violet; on the 20th, the peach tree; and on the 23d, the willow (saliz nigra) and the nemophila, a small indigenous blue flower.

<<<Page: 526>>>

Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, California, lat. 38° 34° 42” north, long. 121° 40° 05”.
The observations with the thermometer and barometer, and record of the winds, embrace a period of ten months, from June, 1854; and those of the psychrometer, the period embraced between August, 1854, and March, 1855, inclusive. The means of the thermometer are calculated from four daily observations, viz: at sunrise, (for which the minimum is used, at noon,) at sunset, and 10 p. m.; those of the barometer, from three daily readings, at sunrise, noon, and 10 p. m; and the same number for the psychrometer, but at different hours, viz: at or near sunrise, 3 p. M., and 10 p.m. The course of the wind is given four times daily, corresponding with the observations of the thermometer, and will serve to show the influence of the wind, both upon the elevation of the barometer and the humidity of the atmosphere. A long and patient examination and system of comparison, upon this subject, has convinced me of the almost perfect uniformity of a high barometer and a northerly wind, (north or northwest,) and the reverse condition with a south or southeast wind. There are some exceptions to this rule, and in our northwest gales the barometer often falls low; but what I have stated is the ordinary course under ordinary conditions. ‘The source of these winds in the mountains of Oregon, and of the others (south, southeast, and southwest) from the Pacific, will, moreover, account for their respective influence upon the humidity of the atmosphere.
Not less evident is the relation of the winds to temperature, especially in the summer months. It is common, at this season, for the wind, after sunrise, to change to a northerly direction, and to continue in this quarter for a greater or less length of time, varying from a few hours to a period of the day as late as 3 or 4 p.m. In their passage over the burning plains of the interior, and by contact with the heated air, they have acquired, before they reach here, an elevated temperature, and are dry and occasionally ‘hot. This state of things 1 1S) however, mostly succeeded by a delightful breeze from the ocean in the afternoon, when both the temperature and the humidity of the atmosphere undergo a rapid transition. These facts would be more clearly denoted by an examination of the daily record, and especially by a separate observation in the forenoon, than by the means which I send, inasmuch as the northerly wind of the morning is frequently unnoticed in my regular tables, from the fact of its prevalence only between the hours of sunrise and noon. The above is a correct view of the ordinary course of the wind in the summer season. In the winter, on the contrary, the north wind prevails more, and comes to us in all its original freshness and coolness.

<<<Page: 527>>>

900° 0€ PS0°0€ GLO*0€ LST’ 0€ SLO*OE €00°0€ PPG’ 6G 616° 66 966" 6G 916° 66 vee ssuvout ATYIWOPAL OGL 6S 996° 6% ER" 6% ceccce goe0g =| tte 0&6" 6% £26" 6% Sieierecess cocoons te 906° 6G £06" 66 66° 66 000° 0& 961" 0€ 088° 66 0L6° 6G 918° 66 €83° 66 babies wes OG 986° 6G a oe 9SL 6G OL 0€ 966° 6G E61" 0& E8L* 6G 0f6" 66 068° 66 £96" 66 Mees chron ee 40G 0F6" 66 6PS* 66 016° 66 9LG’ OE 9S0° 0€ OST" 08 0G8* 6G 960° 0€ 096° 6G £10" 0€ Patent ois i 38 958° 66 696° 6G £96" 66 61° 0E O€L OF OIL 0€ 988° 66 980° 0€ 996° 66 086° 6G ge eine es eG 968° 66 €66° 66 €S0° 06 PL 0G EOL 0€ 900° 06 &66" 66 €56'66 | &F6'66 £16" 66 i: eG €10°0€ 9S0°0& 910° 08 960° 0€ OST 0€ OF0° 0& 618° 66 968° 6G 916° 66 686" 66 — ae GE 060° 0& 010° 0& 080° 0€ GI OE OST 0€ OF8* 66 0L6° 6G €€6° 66 £E6° 66 IL6° 66 ci eens KO 001" 0€ €88° 66 €ST 0€ 69T° 0€ cel 06 098° 66 €80° 0€ 086° 66 IL6" 6G I86" 6G 5 ifn eG fy OOT*0& 088° 66 Ole’ 0€ 901° 0€ 960° 0§ 910° 08 O10" 0€ 996°66 | OTL0°0E £66" 66 is ee eae OO fo) 680° 0 968° 66 696° 06 91° 0E £10°0€ OIL 0€ OF 6° 6G €68°66 =| 966" 6% 9F6° 6G Bg ee aL O&L* OF 069° 6G 966" 0E LL 0€ €80° 06 980° 0& 9F6° 66 0G8* 66 £66" 66 IC6" 6G pt oe a eames OG eS SEL" 0€ OLL* 6G 9GL* OF €&6" OF 9F0° 06 £00° 0& E86" 66 918° 6 £00° 0 916° 66 iim >. 6)! ) 0&1" 0€ 9LL0& GOL 0€ 9€G°0E EP6 66 610° 0€ 966" 66 ESL 66 £00° 0€ 0°6° 66 5S een Oy OFT" 0€ 066° 0€ O€T 0€ 90°06 060° 08 966" 66 986° 6G €€8" 66 £06° 66 6L6° 66 ipa psa cela th ge |! re 691° 08 £06" 0€ STL 0€ CO°0E €S0°0€ 066° 66 960° 0S 966" 66 G8" 66 9E6" 66 el 060° 06 916° 0€ 9ST °0€ €oL 0€ ell’ 0& E86" 66 0F0°0& 900° 0€ 9P8* 6G €88" 66 "<5 eee! 4 OF8" 6G E81" 0€ 0&6" 0E 906° 0€ 9FL0€ 680° 0€ 996° 66 066° 66 958° 66 £98" 66 ze Pei! = CEL 66 OST 0& IPG OE 9LG° 0€ 960° 0€ 060° 0€ 086° 66 096° 66 618° 66 €L8° 66 = eat 7, OLL* 6G £06" 0€ 9L0°0€ 66°06 €L0°0€ 0€6° 66 OF6" 66 IL6’ 66 696° 66 €€6" 66 = Ol 7, 916° 66 916° 0€ OIL 0& 90P. O& 060° 0€ 996° 66 £66" 66 9F0° 0€ 9&0" 0§ €16° 6G a eal! el £66" 66 €60° 0€ ELG"0E Iv 0€ 901° 0E 0C6" 66 0€6° 66 €E0° 0€ IFO" 0€ £66" 66 o SO €86° 66 OSG" 0€ ELE OE 91° 0€ 9€0° 0€ 998° 66 E86 66 £88 ° 66 090° 0€ E16" 66 7 [6 en) 090° 0€ O9T* 0€ OFG' OF 9ST 0€ £00° 08 O€&8°6G | &€0°0E €68°66 | &00°0E | 900°0€ 2 SHAS 2 990° 06 OLO° 0& 096° 08 £06" 0€ €86° 66 16°66 =| O16°6% 960° 0€ GL8° 66 O€T" 0€ a Soarates = 966° 66 €P6° 6G E86" 0€ 6G" OE 960° 0 9TO°0€ 098° 6G £66° 66 0&8" 6G €L6° 66 — cet A OPO 0€ 910° 0€ O10" 0€ 9ST OE OL 0 088° 6G 998° 66 £00°0€ £8" 6G OF6" 6G Es Sees 080° 0€ 9€G° 0€ 689° 66 080° 0€ &6G" 0E 06L° 6G 016° 66 €L6° 66 OL8* 6G 086° 66 Reh eT tal ie Z OP 0€ 906° 0€ 916° 66 986° 66 €96° 0€ 088° 66 998° 66 OF6' 66 £56" 66 0S0° 0€ fae patter Nee eG OIL’ 0€ 060° 0€ €96° 6G 9&6" 66 OIT OE 960° 0€ OF8* 66 9€0°0€ 996° 66 080° 0 eG sae eo 991° 0€ £067 66 ESS" 66 980° 0€ EG 0€ 9€0°0E | 088°6% €c0°0€ | 08°66 960° 0€ a ae eet | “sayouy *sayouy *sayouy “soouy ‘soyout =| *sayouy *soyouy *soyouy *sayouy *satoUyT “Youre “Areniqoag |'Atuee ‘eegy| ‘raquooag | ‘1equioaoyy | *19q0}90 ‘roquieydag “ysnsny “A[ne | ouns ‘Fost ‘sduq +t raansnpour ‘GEST “YD 01 FELT
ny fauny wolf suoynasasgo fipwp «nof woif “jng ‘ojuauniony jo unauoung ay) fo sunau hyyjuow puv ipop JO—T °ON ATAVA,

<<<Page: 528>>>

[a ee ee eee ee * 69° 9S | 68° | VL'bY GP’ 8h 8L°9S 95°69 96°S9 €€°0L OL*SL 98°99 0s'ss sees! | L8°9S CL” 6Y pee GL’ LS asa | L8°0L 00°L9 ee CLLG ease GL’ OS GL’ EP 00°€S 0S" 64 eeGLieSd, GL°99 GL°TL LE°GL GG" 6S ego CeaIS) 00° GF 0c" 1g 0c" 8S GL°99 GL°P9 Go°SL 00° L9 GG" 9S 00° LS ¢GL°0S SG EF 0S" 8S 0S° 8S 69°89 00° 69 0S ° GL GL’ Lg OS" LS | So's LGe1S OS" v7 0S° 6S GG" 9G SG°IL SL°69 00°9L 99°69 00°69 | L8°&S 0OGS >> SG" 6F 18°09 00°8S LE" 69 0g°S9 GL°SL 0¢°99 00°€9 | OSSrs Go" €G 0S° tS [6°09 GG'°8S GL°89 LE*t9 00°9L ESS) col 9 | O0°LY GL°OS 0G" EG SL" 09 GG 9S 0S °GL ot 89 00°&8 G59 00°*9 Go LY 0S" SP Leis GL’ 09 GL 19 Go IL L&° 69 00°82 ol 99 GL°09 L8°9P 69 FP L8°TS 18° 6S 00°S9 0¢°89 00°79 GLTL 0S°¢9 GG°8S \-OSSST 0S" GP 69° SP GEESS GLS9 0c" L9 00° EL LE L9 G6" t9 GLGS | S6nSV GL’Ty SL’ SY CLEGG 0s" 99 0g" 89 GO'PL Go" 9 L8°69 GG°8S 00°8P LE OP GL'9P 0G" 8S GL’ 8g GL°Sh SL°TL GLES9 OO°TL GG" LG LE-vS LE“ EP cL 6P 00° LS 00° 6S G6°SL GL°GL GL’ ¥9 G6°99 GL*6V 00° VS GL’ 6E 69° 6F LE“ LS 00°19 00° GL 0S" 78 0¢° 69 L8°69 0S SP 00° LS 0S" 6 SG" 9P L8°9¢ GG°G9 SG) 99 00°S8 00°GL 48°89 SLOP 00° 8S GG" 8E LE LY 00° SS 00° 09 L8° 09 00° LL GL°8L L&°89 GLE 6Y 0S°9¢ GL° 66 OS* LY LES 00°8S GL" 09 00°GL L8°€8 L8°0L Go" ES OS" PS os TV 00° 9F 0S° tS 0s" LS LE*19 O0°GL LE“ 98 GL°L9 GL8° 0S GL'TS OS GP LE°SP 69° LG Go" 19 SG" 09 SoTL ct 18 L8°C9 OS" 1S GG" 0S 0S t7 CL’bV 69" SS SL°¥9 09°09 0S" 9L GL LL OS*TL os" Ts CLTS 00° SP LAPP 69° ES 0S* 9 SG" G9 GL’ 69 00°82 GG"8L G6T" LS 00°9S L8°VF SG’ tP LE°9G 18:69 S6°G9 GL°PL Go" LL Goth 00° 6S L8°0S OG" &P 00° LP GL°GS 05°99 0¢°€9 OS°SL 0S*8L 00° L9 Go'T9 0g" 9S SG’ OF GG" OV 0g" SS 0g" G9 GL’ €9 00° OL 00°8L 00° G9 GL’ 6S SLES Go E GL’8P 0s° 09 0s*sS9 00°€9 69°89 69° PL [Gn98 Gol" 9G SG.SS OS" FE 00° TS GL°6S os" S9 GL S9 Cones GI 8k 0S" 6S 00° 8S Go" Gs 0S" &P 00° PS G9" LG 00°69 SL°€9 L8°S9 0S" 8L 61°89 GL°8S 00°9S 0S" &P 69° GS 00° LS OS" 9L or" 19 GL°GL 00° PL 69° G9 G6" 8S GIGS os Th 0S°9S GL°9G 00°9L 00°S9 L8°L9 GL°89 GL°I19 GL°8S * 69° ES 00° 6 GL’ LS 00° TS Ct 0s" 99 €&° 79 Gl 69 L8°8S 1e) ie) ie} ie) fe) ie} ie) 12) 12) 10) "YOIr yA, “Areniqoag |'A1,ute ‘Geg]| “taquisoaq | ‘roquiIsAONy | = *10q0}0Q “laquieydag ysnony “Arne ‘oung ‘PGT
**+suvaur ATYJUOTAT
tes eeeee em erere
sive veagiasnenpe mc “FG "8G '% eG "06 “61 "°OT i “91 EXT "FI ciel “el oi) “OL eh
eerseoeceeetegaeos
eeseeeeetre eevee
*sftq
ramasmjoue ‘GGT Yan, 02 FGRT.
‘sung wos ‘suornasasgo hprnp snof wolf jpg ‘ojununs9vy Iv LajaWousayT, ay) fo sunau hyyjuow puy ipop JO—% ‘ON ATAVL

<<<Page: 529>>>

el'og | 91°08 | 9T'0E Looe | 90°0E | 60°0E 00°0 | 00°0€ | 00°0E 66s | L6°6S | 66°6S 6°66 | 96°63 | $6°62 66S | S6°GS | 06'S €6°6 | S6°66 | 96°6@ ‘W'd OT} ‘WOON jostiug “IOpOWIOIV
‘Wd OF
‘UMIN]OD BSUUNS OY} OF PAsN SI UOTWVAIOSGO UINUNIUIUT OTLT, %
00°0S | 00°0S 0O°LS | 00°8S 00°09 =| 00°C9 00°79 | 00°89 00°89 | 00°GL 00°L9 | 00°GL 00°¢9 =| 00°L9 “yosung | *WOONT
‘ast1ung
00°rS | 00°99 00°69 | CO°OL 00°98 | 00°88 00°L8 | 00°98 00°S6 | 00°96 00°C6 | OS*L6 0O'r8 | 00°L8 *yosung | ‘WoO NT
Th LP €S° PS L9° 6S OL*69 Go" L9 88° PL €é°c9
‘Wd OL
o6°és | GL°gss ST°e9 | Sexs9 Go'89 | €0°TL €9°OL | €€°9L Go°9L | 06°18 LT°08 | PL°88 GO"GL | €0°9L ‘yasung | *uwoON
-ornperodurey ATIVg
‘asuung
‘suorpeAdasqo ATIVp MoJ—1e]oULOUTIOY, J,
“prUsofiyyna ‘OJUIUDLIDE? 7D suorjnaLI8qo 1091.80 ]0.L09j IT
see eees sroquiasa(] se e8* JaqUIOAO NT te eeeee J9qG0}09 sere raquiaydag trees eee asnsny seeeeeeeeee King
Ssisiscie oun?
ayrq

<<<Page: 530>>>

‘IISNENEP JO SaTqe} Worswa7 oyy Wor *yLY} Joye pur {dajauIOHAY 8, JaruLG] Sutsn ofA ‘4odvA JO ao10j JY} JO sopqry $,U0ynoyeo o1oM sofqe} ainjsiour ey, ‘Adsqy aossajorg Aq popusMIMOdaL sv ‘IOJOIOULIOT} SULOUIAS OY} Udy} ous ‘ equioydag [GUN pasn toyoULOIHAY S,[oIULG
6es° | s6e° | 18° | 66°9E | 6°Ss | OO'Sr | WOE | 00°8z% rer’ | 906° | 989° | G6'FR | 96°9 | LE‘0S | MOT | OS'6E g9g° | 906° | S06" | GIGS | OO'IE | 00°E9 | LEWFT| 00°9F gor’ | oso | 169° | Tees | OOH | OS'09 | WOT | OO'Lr oor | 7Sz° | G09’ | IT°zS | oo'sy | 00°89 | PZ 05° 6h Los’ | se" | 6rs | €S°09 | oo’sr | OS°89 | mos | OS*TS nes’ | pee’ | Gos’ | 9E°FS | OO'IF | 00°S9 | ps 00°9F = = ES = = = s) =
eee sel oy g 5. = ey
P = 5 5 5 3 : 5 i=] = 8 | 6 | GF | Sk} 8} Z| 6E)] Sl|/% |e | 8 | 8 | 62] 8] 8G] 8] SL] SE} GL] 24416@ | 3 |S | Lt | St} Skl 6 | eri rt |e |e fo Oe OSS (OI ee sO Lee Lone POs| E118) 2h]. 6S.) 26,1596.) SS. 6L.| PE Gee Pes | Eoe eG Orn sre Or ees OR 61-8 Pr | 8-18 Py |S | 9 SE | LE} PE | 96) OF 06.) 40 8 |S |g | 8 | 86) 88) 9%) 86) 9 | 8 12. 19 | SE) 2 | 9 ).9 | FE) OF | OF-)06:)0 ) 0 | 6 | 0 0 |8t/o |F |S |G | 08] 96] 83)G3)8 19 |G |S | Bi] Gs} as) 22)/0 1% | 8 | O | OL] IL] 1116 | 06) 2] St) 13/0 |}o | E JO 0 |86)/T-]%6 | E | 8_| 08) 66} 08] 8)¢ |9 |L 1% | 93) 83] He] 16/0 1%) | | SE) ot) FE) | OF] 2E) Ok) oe} 0 70 | 0.10 0 |83/T | t | |S | 08] 08 | 26) 93) gG | 1S |S | 96] 20) 8} 83/6 1/6 |6 18/16 | OL) St) 8 | 06) 6T)6 | 06/0 }0 |] 0 | 0 6 |6l/% |b | | TE] 83} 96} 90) 6L)% |9 | £ | % | 8B) FO) 80} 90/T |S | Or) S | 6 | L | OL] 2 | 0G) Te] OF} 1/0 |}0 ]0 | 0 esizelB| P|" (SISIFI | F)e)Fl ey SIF ST BFL YS BLP Ley lel Te Py rs i= | ee | 2 cS “Xpnoyo Ay Bp aris) 6} *pUrA quay “PULA 978.19 pour ‘ = A ws 2 “| -ysou 10 ‘Kpnoig | <ysom 10 ‘4waIQ | -O1A 04 ajvaapoyy | oy azaaaq atqisuag | —WTON 07 89d 89,A4 0} YING yynog 07 yseq qSeq 07 YON
“UGH LVAM (SUONBALOSGO JO JAaqUINU dq} 0} AoJoI SamMsy oy) ‘“SUOVAIesqo ATIVP MOT “PUTA,
‘940
“‘MIULOfyDD ‘OJUAUDLIDE JD suUoYHALISgO 1091.G0]0.L09I IPT

<<<Page: 531>>>

‘sNSNY JO 4ST Ol} SLOJoq paououTtOD you suOT}eAIasqo [voIIysMIOIYOAST y
pal) ‘aS ‘AS ‘as ‘S “HSS ‘ASS ‘dS
AN HINDOr-OHOr on i
“Ane
‘ASS ‘dss ‘Ss ‘ds )
p “Aep “69 | FS + “ASS ‘HS tM ‘AS | 99°LG | 99°L9 | Fs op
"“MS'*MS* MN ‘AS | 99°69 | €6°L9 | €% ‘'S ‘gs ‘ass ‘s "8S | 99°89 | &% | op
op 99°6¢ | 99°19 | &% op €6°LS | 99°€9.-| 3s | op
op TeGe)_ 99) 16 op "09 | 99°GL | 16 op
‘Aep TT? AS | €6°6S | 99°L9 | 0G ‘Avp “gz | ST .| faq Swoouasoy ut NT fg SS -GS8: |-99° 7s) = 09)|-" 11 op G6. 69" |599"12 | LT ‘AS ‘US'S EAS op €6°S¢ | €6°c9 | OT ‘Aep 99°S9 | ¢ ‘AS ‘as ‘s ‘as ‘S'S ‘MS 'S | 99°G¢ | 99°%9 | F | “AS ‘aS ‘ASS ‘as | 99°8S | EEL9 | FP ‘S'S | ACN ‘OS "A€p TZ AS | €6°S¢ | 99°09 | & ‘dS ‘ds ‘s ‘ds "99 | “Ph | € |S 'HSS'*MNM ‘AS “dS “AS ‘MSS ‘S | €€°9¢ "9 | & "AS ‘HSS ‘MAS “AS | 66°19 | OF OL | ee "Avp Te AS | 99°LS | EE°¢9 Ae US ‘AS ‘MSS ‘as | €6°9¢ | 99°€9 | T "AS ‘USS ‘S'sS | "ou “PULA sree ses | SEL “PULAA Moone | Heap | PSST) «tone “para, ‘PQ ‘ojuammiovgy jo ‘pan Jo uorjoawip yum ‘sajamosyaisg Jo supau hpop Jo QV,
SN tiooron
‘oune

<<<Page: 532>>>

“Aep [[e@ As "SASS ‘A PMN "AS SAAN ‘AN SAAN N “At [12 ANN “MN ‘AN *N SANA ‘ASS ‘ASS ‘MS ‘as ‘AS ‘ASS ‘S ‘as “Op aon “Aup [Ie AS ‘Aup [2 ASS Op “Aup [2 WS "AS ‘AS SOS | MN "AS ‘AS *N * AN ‘Onop cn “op “Op “op “Avp [[? AN ‘S‘s ‘as ‘as ‘AS ‘AS ‘AM ‘ass “AANA SAA NM SAAN MAS MA "AS ‘aS §N SAAN "NON SAN SAS “Aep TT? AN "MSM MSM ‘SMS ‘dS
“Pulm.
“66 99° SE €€°Lé €€° LE 99° bP Ge 1S 99° LY €E SP €&° SP
“OF 99° €F €€° GP €&° [V ce ly 99°17 6° IV 99° OF 99°8& €é° IV €€° OF
‘CoP 66° bP
67 €e'8P
99° 8h €&° €P 99° LE 6&° CP €&° PF 99° 8h
aS 99° €S
Cel 99°ST 99° bP 99797 ee "1S 99° 6F 99RST. €&°9P
“PY 99° tV 99° GP €&° LV 99° 9P 99° 8¥ ears
agS: €€ "tS 6628S
‘dd uveyy
ma oD Hig Or Oan
‘00d
"AS ‘AS ‘MN SAN ‘ASS ‘MN! MN? ANA ‘oO “op “Aep TT? MN "NEN SN SAAN “ABP TT2 AN "AS ‘WS ‘AS + MS "MS ‘MS ‘AS “AS ‘S°S'MS ‘US "AS ‘AS ‘AS ‘MN “ABP TT? MAN ‘S SUN ‘GSS ‘AN “Aep TT? AAN "MSM SM SE MN “Avp [TTR AA MNM‘MNM:MN‘AS "ASS ‘ASS ‘ASS ‘MS "MI MANMS MN SAN cH “Aep [Te N "MN SAAN SMN AAS “AUP [2 MS ‘S's ‘as ‘as ‘Avp [[@ AS ‘op “Aep [[@ ASS ‘AS SMNNEMNM SAAS “MS ‘MS ‘AS ‘ads “Avp TT? MAN
“pur AA
GE" LV 99° €¥ €6°1S “6S €6°€S 99°6S “€S 99° 6S 99S 99°GS “1S “ES ay 99° 8h €é° 87 99° 9F &€" 87 “SP SP 99° 8h AY “oT €&° 87 €€° OV 99° 0S GE. 1S €€° 6F 99° 6P 99° LV
‘dM uvojl
€E°ES ial BS €E° LS “8S 99209 €€° 6S “6S “6S 99° 6S €&-SS
ma GN or) Hid © tO
*Avp TI? MN
‘op “Avp [[@ ASS "MS (MS ‘ASS “AS ‘Aep [2 ASS ‘S‘s ‘as ‘as “AVP [TPS ‘AS ‘AS *S “as ‘op *Avp [18 AS "MS ‘MS ‘AN ‘MN "MS ‘MN ‘NSM ‘S'S ‘AN ‘ds ‘IS ‘MSS ‘S'S “Arp [[® AS "SSMS “ASS ‘AS “Avp [[@ as ‘S ‘HSS ‘MN ‘MNN "MNM *!MNA NS tS Op ‘op ‘Avp [[@ AS “Atp [Te MS "MS ‘M‘MS ‘MS "MS AA EN SAANN
“Pulm.
1D) ‘ojuauniongy yo Spun Jo uorjoa.ap yr ‘ajauodyalisy Jo sunaut fipop fo 901,
“6S 99° 0S 99S) €€°GS €E°GS 99° tS €€"8s €€° 8S €€°9¢ Q9ETS DOF LS €&°€¢ ORES, ee" 1s 99° 67
“8S €6° 6S 99°19 99°09 €€°8s
“dM UIA

<<<Page: 533>>>

‘ASS ‘S ‘ass ‘s
‘S ‘GSS ‘as ‘as
"AN ‘SMS ‘ASS ‘ASS ‘ASS ‘MSS ‘ds ‘'S ‘dss ‘g's
“AS SN EN So
"AS SS SAAN ‘OLN "ODN SOND ENT SAAN “ANN ‘So SSS ‘ON "N' AANSAANN SO MNN “ANN * MAN SAAN ‘OLN "MS (MN {MN SAAN “Aup
"dup [® ass “INN * MSM PMSA EHS “Avp [[@2s "MSS ‘'S‘S ‘ASS
‘AS ‘aS *s: “MSM 'N*N SMNM “ANG SS SN PAA “MS AMS* MNS MSM “IN “OPN SAAN ‘AANN
€é° 90 €&°9P
“oP 99° LP
UvdTAJ
99° LS “Gg €€° Ss “GG 99° SP €E&° LP 99 "Sf 99° PP 8° oP €&°8P 99°¢¢ TS “LS €E° LS “gg oa: GS 61S ee 0g
99° €S 99°SS¢ GE'S €&°¢ “FS 99°9¢ 99° SS €E° FS aus
x: Gon uRayAl
MNO Hig Ore OND
"9 fy
"MNN'N ‘OS 'N “MN SONN ‘ANN ‘ASM “ANG SASS “ANN SAAN "M SAN SN SAAN "AS SO SAANIN SAAN “MNM EN SN SAAN "MNN SAVCN SOON SAAS "AS SNIN §N SAAN ‘a SANG SASS ‘Ass “MN SONN CONN § AACN MNN'MNNE MSM ASM "MS MN SAAN SAAN ‘Kep 18 ass "NAS ‘ds ‘Ss : “AS “HS 'N SAAN ‘AS ‘GSH ‘ASS ‘as ‘AS ‘AAS ‘ON ‘ASS “AS ‘MN SAN ‘AS “HS “HS ‘ASd AN ‘a SAS SN EN "MNN ‘MN SAAN SOS ‘AS (AS ‘UN ‘as “IS "NAAN SAAN “AUp TT? AN "M SM SAN SAN
Od “Avp [[®@ AS “MS ‘*MS‘MS‘S “Atp T[2 AS ‘AS ‘AS “AS ‘ASM “MS ‘MS ‘AS ‘'S
“pur AA
Soa uvoyy
709 ‘ojuaupsony yo ‘pun fo suorjaa.p yvun ‘aajamosyats 7 fo sunau hnwp fo ajgn G9) NY pu ed at kt Ys [YP 19° L,
OORoS 99° 0S ee" 1s *6P “0S 99° TS “6S =1G €€° LV 99° TT 66°C ce 1p “LY €€° 7 &€° OP 99° 6E “6E €&° 6€ 68° OF etal 99° SP “SY 99°St 99° TF 66° 6E eee €E° GE 99° €7 99° 99° GP “OS
uvoyil
ANNAN Or-OD
a 3 5

<<<Page: 534>>>

a, NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
‘ta San Francisco, December 8, 1854.
Since the annexation of California our geographical knowledge of the | western half of our continent has made a progress the rate of which is | unsurpassed in the history of geography, and almost equals the fastness | of California life itself, by which it has been produced. In every |} direction the great wilderness of the western tablelands, and of the continental slope along the Gila and Colorado, together with the adjoining portion of Sonora, is traversed by engineers, by cattle traders, emigr ants, prospecting miners, and bold eeventirers who all contribute | in daily augmenting our store of topographical details concerning these | vast regions. But while this store is accumulating, it cannot be ex| pected ‘that trave llers, who have to pay attention cL some particular and more or less immediate interest, should trouble themselves with | geographical questions of a more general character. ‘Thus some mis| conceptions in our general ideas Ge the physical structure of our conti| nent, produced by some former and premature generalizations of systematic geogr aphy, are still propagated by maps and books, as well as | Congressional railroad speeches, and the influence of these errors on | different branches of science, as well as on common life, is impor tant | enough to make it worth while to correct them. I am referring here | to fie prevailing notions of the geographical system of our continent, or | the manner in which its mountain chains and table lands are generally believed to be arranged and connected, or separated. As this arrangement, together path: the geological constitution of the soil, form the principal “conditions of the local deviations of climate and of the distribution of organic life, it is easy to conceive how the most interesting | chapters of physical geography must be affected by any prevailing | misconception in that respect.
A correct knowledge of the whole system of elevations and depressions of the surface of a country can only be the result of a complete and careful topographical survey and subsequent representation. To execute such a task over a large continent, like that of North America, can only be the work of generations. Even the most advanced States of Europe, small as they are in extent, and almost unlimited as the power of their governments is to expend money for such a purpose, have only lately ‘succeeded in possessing good topographical maps of their territories. But while thus we must resign to our grandchildren
g | the satisfaction of having a clear and correct conception of the ups and — downs of the continent we inhabit, we are under the necessity, for our own present wants, to form an approximate idea. Insufficient as the
number of our observations must be, and discontented as they are in a

<<<Page: 535>>>

great measure, we must try to fill up the lacune of our knowledge by generalizations and ideal connexions. It is natural that, in so doing,
we should be exposed to error; but we shall keep our mistakes within the narrowest possible limits, if we proceed by the way of simple inductions, and refuse to submit to premature theories. No doubt the propensity of the human mind to bring isolated facts into an ideal connexion originates in our highest intellectual faculty, by which alone we are able to discover the general laws which govern the endless variety of cases. But there is scarcely one science which has not been led astray from time to time by this same propensity, and no science, perhaps, more so than geology, of which orography, or the knowledge of the external form of the dry surface of our globe, may, in some respects, be said to be a chapter, while physical ‘geooraphy in general is its descriptive department.
Among the many mistaken notions still prevalent on that subject, is the opinion that the principal systems of water-courses or the great river basins and continental depressions must be divided by mountain chains. In America this is not more true than in any other part of the world. But great and important as is the number of well known facts which prove that the less striking differences of level followed by the water-courses of a country may be independent of the system of real mountain chains, both being very often the results otf two entirely different series of causes, still these facts are regarded as mere exceptions to a general rule, and, wherever positive observations are wanting, geographers continue to fill up the blanks in our maps according to that supposition. Thus, to separate the Pacific from the Atlantic slope, and especially from that towards the Mexican Gulf, the Rocky Mountains have been brought into an imaginary connexion with the Sierra Madre of Mexico, and this latter chain has been forced on our maps to take a direction which it does not take in reality. -I have often heard the name of the former unhesitatingly extended to the latter by Americans living in northern Mexico, though there is an interval of several hundred miles in longitude and latitude between their nearest points. A generalization even of a bolder character is sometimes made, when the Sierra Madre and the Rocky Mountains together are said to be the continuation of the ‘Cordilleras” of South America. But the system of the Andes does not continue through the Isthmus of Darien; and the hills of the Isthmus of Panama have little to do with them. These hills, again, are not connected with the mountains and table lands of upper Mosquitia, of Honduras, and Guatemala, “nor with the volcanic cones which rise in isolated beauty from the plains of Nicaragua and San Salvador.
It may be observed that these interruptions of continuity are not important enough to affect a general view of the subject, and it may be conceded that this is true. Certainly we may speak with all propriety of the mountains and table lands of the western side of the new world as of one great system following the course of its western coast from Terra del F uego to the northern Polar ocean, and separated by wide tracts of flat “and, comparatively speaking, low country, from the groups and chains which occupy certain sections of the eastern side of both the northern and southern continents. But this is only repeating
Mis. Doc. 24———18

<<<Page: 536>>>

a fact almost too general and simple to be much dwelt upon. It being once known, as it is, to everybody, the special arrangement of the numerous subordinate members becomes the object of investigation, and it is this object we have here in view.
In this investigation the question is not only whether certain groups or chains of mountains are really connected or separated, but what other relations may exist between them, relations that may be of high interest to the geologist and meteorologist, or to those who are studying the laws of the distribution and diversity of vegetable, animal, and human life. Mountains, though separated by intervening space, may be the productions of sinaleeose and connected geological processes, or, by taking corresponding situations in reference to the whole geographical structure of their respective regions, nay form corresponding parts in the system of natural circumstances and conditions, so that one may be said to be the equivalent of the other in one or the other of the different series of causes and effects which constitute the great organism of nature. Thus we may not only ask whether the Rocky Mountains are connected with the Sierra Madre or not, but we may, if the latter be the case, put the question whether the one must not be considered, at least, as the eguivalent of the other. This question, in. deed, has been raised by the geologists of this country in respect to the different chains of our own system of mountains. It has become an interesting question of geology and physical geography, whether the peninsular chain of Lower California is the southern equivalent of the Sierra Nevada, or is that of our coast range, and whether the so-called
San Bernardino chain is corresponding to any of the three, or has its own independent character and existence.
Since Elie de Beaumont has drawn the attention of geologists to certain relations which appear to exist between the bearings te mountain chains and the geological periods of their respective upheavals, it has been asserted that such questions should be decided ; and that the classifications and nomenclature of geography should be regulated by the facts which constitute geological character, and not by those of mere outward form. But it is easy to show that, by subjecting the whole matter to the domination of a mere scientific principle, we yield to the claims of one science at the cost of the equally just claims of another, as well as of every-day utility. Thus, for example, it is a well established fact of geology, that different sections of the Alps are to be 1eferred to very different geological epochs, while each of these sections has its geological equivalents. in certain more or less distant parts of the wou! Still it is in the interest of climatology and of the study of the distribution of plants and animals, as it is in that of common life and of buman history, to adhere to the old and natural way of viewing and naming, by which the Alps are considered as one mountain chain, which has nothing to do with certain mountains or hills in Spain, in Scandinavia, ane in Greece. It is an equally well established fact, that the hills in the south of England and a certain section of the Caucasus, that the Thuringien foecst in Germany and certain mountains in Greece, that one section of the Pyrenees and a certain section of the Alps, are to be referred respectively to the same geological periods. Still no sensible man, unless he is considering the matter

<<<Page: 537>>>

expressly under a geological point of view, would say that these mountains respectively belong to each other. Even not to augment the sufferings of schoolmasters and schoolboys, we should abstain from innovations which would oblige them to become good geologists before they could understand, the one what he is teaching, the other what he is learning. The outward forms of the surface of our globe should be considered independently of the system of geological periods and mineral masses. The knowledge of each, though there is an intimate connexion between the two, has its own peculiar interest, and the claims of the geologist in that respect have no better foundation than those of the botanist who would propose to give different names to two sections of the same chain of mountains, because one is covered: with pine trees, the other with oak.
After these preliminary remarks, intended to clear the subject of some confused notions in respect to its general principles, | may pass over to a statement of facts, which shall be mostly such as have fallen under my own observation.
1. The great chain of the Rocky Mountains divides, in the neighborhood of the origin of the Rio Grande, into two ranges, of which one runs along the eastern, the other along the western side of that river, down to about the latitude of Santa Fé. i
Every one who has travelled from the Missouri river to the capital of New Mexico, is well aware of the fact that the latter part of the road, from Las Vegas to its termination, turns round the southern promontory
of the eastern range. 'To the north he leaves steep, high, and mostly snow-covered mountains, while the elevations to the south are of two kinds, but both different in character from the great chain to the north. Some there are, it is true, which have been caused by plutonic eruptions, and the upheaval of metamorphic and sedimentary masses; but they are merely little isolated groups, or ridges, such as the Placer, Sandilla, and Manzana mountains. ‘The rest are either mere declivities, or detached portions of the general table land. This latter, at an average altitude of nearly 7,000 feet above the sea, turns round that same southern promontory, from the eastern to the southwestern side of the great chain, and, running out here in a projecting corner to the westward, reaches the very borders of the valley of the Rio Grande, where, at many places, the traveller has a view over its edges down into the valley near Albuquerque. The little groups and ridges just mentioned have entirely the general character of the numerous mountains which, like the islands of an archipelago, are scattered all over the high plains of western Texas and Mexico. If, nevertheless, they be considered as the southern continuations, or representatives, of the Rocky Moun) tains, which in a certain sense they really are, it should be in view | of the correspondence of the natural arrangement of elevations in that Mi section of country to the western terminal range, which, south of Santa ij Fé, appears to pass over to the eastern side of the river, following, in this way, the general south-by-east course of the system.
_ 2. Whoever has travelled from El Paso to California by the Gila _ route knows that, following Cook’s route in its southern bend, he has to | pass over several mountain spurs; but that, choosing the straight line of amore northern track, called Leroux’s route, he passes from the Rio

<<<Page: 538>>>

‘Grande to the Gila, near the Pima villages, without the necessity of surmounting ‘a single real mountain-chain. In general, there is no «doubt that, if the traveller were not bound to touch the few watering places, and to avoid difficulties of another character, he could keep oe trom mountains altogether. If, therefore, the western terminal range of the Rocky Mountains should reach so far south as the origin of the Gila river, it certainly does not pass over to the south of that locality. It is, however, much more likely that the road from Albuquerque to Zuni, and, perhaps, even the old Spanish trail from Santa Fé, by Abiquiu and the head waters of the San Juan river, to Los Angeles, turns round the real southern promontory of the western terminal range.
It is true that further south, in the neighborhood of Socorro, in about 34° of latitude, mountains of considerable elevation, and steep, Alpine forms, stand on the western side of the Rio Grande. They appear, however, to be separated from the Rocky Mountains by a wide interval of flat and open country, which has been made use of for the passage of several routes. This section of country I do not know trom personal observation, except from what [ could see in coming down the Rio Grande. Now, even conceding that reasons might be found to consider the mountains near Socorro as a continuation of the western terminal range of the Rocky Mountains, still they would not form a connexion with the Sierra Madre, because such a connexion cannot be found further south. Between Valverde and Santa Barbara the same group of mountains form those impassable narrows of the
valley of the Rio Grande, which compel the traveller to leave the river and traverse, for ninety miles, the ill-reputed desert of the Jornada del Muerto, or ‘‘dead man’s journey,” the south-eastern portions of the group thus proving to stand on the eastern side of the Rio Grande.
3. ‘The mountains which here obstruct the valley, those further north which rise in picturesque forms from the western side of the river near Socorro, together with the Copper Mine Mountains, and the little group of Ben Moor, appear to belong, in reality, to a central and separate sy stem, in which the Gila river takes its origin, and which might be
called the Upper Gila mountains. Its centre appears to be the “Sierra Blanca, so called, not from being covered with eternal snow, as might be supposed, but trom the w hite color of its rocks. Ina deep and narrow canon of the southern portion of the system I ogee ved white masses of a porphyritic or trachytic formation, with transitions into pearlstone.
It has been pretended that the real connecting link between the Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Madre is formed by a chain called the Sierra de los Mimbres. But the traveller in the section of country where it should exist will look im vain for such a chain. The name, indeed, is only applied to the -restricted and subordinate mountain locality on the southern verge of the Upper Gila Mountains, so called from the Rio de los Mimbres, a small creek which, during the dry season, is lost in the plain, but is said to continue its course so far south as to reach the Laguna de Santa Maria, a lake situated west by south of El Paso. Mimbre is the Mexican name of a beautiful bignoniaceous shrub (a Chilopsis) exclusively growing in the alluvial beds of sand and pebbles of little intermittent streams. The little creek, therefore, has
its name from the shrub; and the mountain locality in which the creek

<<<Page: 539>>>

has its origin, near the now deserted Fort Webster, obtains its appellation from the creek—a fact which shows its subordinate character.
4, After having approximately defined the southern extremity of the Rocky Mountains, I have now to follow the course of those detached groups and ridges which, in a certain sense, to be explained hereafter, may be called its southern equivalent. I have already stated that, it such an equivalent exists, itis to be looked for on the eastern and not on the western side of the Rio Grande. The traveller coming from San Antonio de Bejar, on his way to El Paso or to the Presidio del Norte, has to pass these mountains, which, situated west of the Pecos river, mark a step from a lower to a higher section of the plateau of western Texas. In steep and singular forms, of a character entirely different from the hills formed by declivities and detached portions of table land, as common in western 'T'exas as they are on the head waters of the Pecos and the Canadian, these groups and ridges of plutonic and metamorphic masses, formed by a combination of upheavals and eruptions, emerge from the high surrounding plains.
On the road to the Presidio del Norte they are passed in the Puerto del Paisano, on the road to El Paso, in the Puerto de las Limpias, or ‘«¢ Wild Rose”’ Pass, two localities of the most striking character of wild. and romantic mountain scenery—particularly the latter of the ‘woul where the walls of immense porphyritic eruptions are separated into innumerable strange shapes of needles, spires, columns, and spheroids. South of the Presidio del Norte, in the neighborhood of San Carlos, this line of mountains strikes again the Rio Grande, passing from the eastern to the western side of the river without changing its general direction, the river forming here a great eastern bend, in a long, deep, narrow, and impassable gorge, through which, in a series of rapids, it pours down from the elevated country of its upper and middle course into the deep country of the Mexican gulf. On its western side, then, the line of mountains bordering the Bolson de Mapimi to the east runs further south through the States of Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, San Luis Potosi,
-and Vera Cruz, where it forms the eastern margin of the plateau of Anahuac.
5. I come now to speak of the Sierra Madre. This denomination has been the cause of many geographical misunderstandings and misconstructions. It has been understood as a rea! proper name, while it is but an appellative, meaning the mother chain of mountains—. e., the principai chain of a country in general, just as the Mexicans call acequia madre the principal channel of a system of irrigation. Thus the name may occur in different localities without thereby authorizing geographers to conclude that all the mountain chains which have received that denomination belong to one and the same system. It may, therefore,
really be as some maps have it—I do not know from what source—that
acertain chain cast of Durango, belonging tothe line of ridges which passes over from Texas to Mexico, is known under the name of Sierra Madre, too. But it is certain, and every one who has travelled across Mexico in that latitude knows it, that the Sierra Madre, in the sense generally adopted in the country, is not east but ts west of Durango, and is passed by the road from that city to Mazatlan. Of a mountain chain in New Mexico called Sierra Madre, and pretended to be situated on the west

<<<Page: 540>>>

ern side of the Rio Grande, I have never heard. But if the name should occur there, too, as some maps likewise have it, | am almost sure that it has only been used by some Mexican theorist who wanted to convey a general idea of the geography of his country according to his own fancy—that it is not, therefore, a commonly employed term there—and under no consideration could even a fact contrary to this conviction prove any connexion of the Rocky Mountains with the Sierra Madre proper, which, following the direction of the Pacific coast of Mexico, borders the interior table-land of that country towards the low country of Michoacan, Jalisco, Sinaloa, and Sonora. If such a conclusion could be allowed to be drawn from a mere name, it would certainly be as justifiable to prove a connexion, or at least a relation, of the Sierra Madre proper to that chain of mountains which our geologists now call the San Bernardino chain, but which the old Californians likewise know under the name of Sierra Madre.
Now as to the Sierra Madre proper, there is a singularity in the natural structure of this marginal chain, which, though by no means uncommon in other similar chains in different parts of the world, is one of the principal causes of the misconstructions of our maps in respect to western and northern Mexico. Nearly all the more considerable rivers which empty into the Gulf of California have their origin on the high plains of the interior table-land—that is to say, on the eastern side of the Sierra Madre—and, bursting through deep and narrow gorges or rents, cross the chain at right angles before they come down on a lower terrace of the country, and ultimately into the ‘tierra caliente” of the coast. ‘This fact is to be seen in the most striking manner on the road from Chihuahua to the rich mining place of Batoseagachic, where the traveller passes, without any ascent, trom the high plateau on the eastern side of the Sierra down into the deep country on its western side, through one of these openings; the road coming out on the latter side at an elevation of several thousand feet above the lower country, where he may see the orange and banana, while he is still in the region of the pine-trees and of a northern climate. The water-course at the bottom of the transversal gorge is tributary to the Rio del Fuerte, which empties into the oulf somewhat south of the Rio Y: aqui. One of the two principal branches of this latter river, the Rio de Papigéchic or Conception, shows a similar phenomenon. For nearly a hundred miles it runs along the eastern side of the sierra in anortherly direction, through the eantiful savannas of the western table-land of Chihuahua, passing many fine little towns, until at last it makes a sudden turn to the west, enters a gap in the mountains so narrow that it is scarcely perceptible in the landscape, and through it dashes down into the deep country on the western side of the chain. One of these two passages must be had in view by the projectors of the railroad from El Paso or the Presidio del Norte to Guaymas, for which Santa Anna has lately given a concession. As geographers, however, have not understood laa character of the chain, they have placed it so far to the east of its real situation as to get it on the eastern side of the origin of the rivers of Sonora and Sinaloa.
At the same time there are some reasons to suspect that the astronomical positions of the interior of these two States are likewise too far

<<<Page: 541>>>

east ; by which circumstance, if my supposition, suggested chiefly by the comparison of distances on both sides of the mountain chain, should prove just, the sierra, even keeping its relative situation, would be brought nearer to the line of direction of the Rocky Mountains than it comes in reality, and by the combinations of the two errors the disfigurations of our maps appear to have been doubled. Thus, while the southern terminal ranges of the Rocky Mountains have been laid down too far west, the northern terminal ranges of the Sierra Madre have been laid down too far east, and both have been brought nearer to each other than they really are.
6. Of the latter ranges, the extreme northern spurs, situated south of the middle and lower Gila, are passed by Cook’s route on the trail between the Guadalupe pass and Fort Yuma. Near the latter place, or the junction of the Gila and Colorado, the Coast Range of Sonora and Sinaloa, which forms the western foot of the whole Sierra Madre system—a system which, throughout its whole extension, is formed by parallel ranges—has its northern termination. Beyond the Gila and Colorado, however, its direction is continued by a chain of mountains which the traveller on his way through the desert, between the latter river and Carizo creek, has at some distance to his right hand. At a very acute angle it converges with the chain which comes from the. peninsula of Lower California, till at last it falls in with it, the San Bernardino peak forming, as I have been assured by persons who have been on the spot, the point of junction. Thus the extreme northwestern spur of the Sierra Madre constitutes what has been called by geologists the San Bernardino range, but has been known to the old Californians under that same name of Sierra Madre, as I have already stated. If, therefore, the Sierra Madre has a northern equivalent, we have to look for it not in the Rocky Mountains but in the Sierra Nevada system. But the real meaning of all these relations will receive more light from their connexion with the more general structure of the western half of our continent, of which, therefore, I shall try to give a few outlines.
This western half is known to be composed of a great longitudinal basin, extending, in a direction corresponding to the Pacific coast, from the Isthmus of 'Tehuantepec to the polar region. ‘Through the greater part of its extent it is confined between an eastern and western marginal chain of mountains. The greater part of its surface has an elevation which gives it the character of a table land, and by its marginal chains it is separated from an eastern and a western lateral terrace.
In California and Oregon, Utah and New Mexico, and in the countries farther to the north, the two marginal chains are clearly and conspicuously marked by nature. The eastern one is formed by the Rocky Mountains, the western one by the Sierra Nevada, Cascade Mountains, and their more northern equivalents. In Mexico, the western chain is constituted by the Sierra Nevada, and is likewise clearly traced by nature; but the eastern one, composed of that line of detached and irregular groups and ridges which crosses the Rio Grande from east to west at the narrows and rapids of San Carlos, is less conspicuous, and may be entirely overlooked by those who are not sufficiently informed about the matter. Nevertheless, as already stated, if the Rocky Mountains have a southern equivalent, it must be recognised in the mountains of western Texas, Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, San Luis Potosi, and Vera,

<<<Page: 542>>>

Cruz; and if the Sierra Madre has a northern equivalent, it must be recognised in the Sierra Nevada, the Cascade Mountains, and their more northern continuations: because the first line forms the eastern, the second line the western borders of the great longitudinal basin of our western interior, the whole construction being thus under the rule of a strict physico-geographical analogy.
8. Though in respect to its prevailing elevation, this great basin may be called a plateau or table-land, still it has considerable differences of altitude, and three great slopes—not to speak of similar phenomena of a minor importance—which form transitions from the inner and higher to the outer and lower countries: that of the Rio Grande, that of the Coloradoand Gila, and that of the Columbia—the former breaking through the western marginal chain.
Between the middle part of the valley of the Rio Grande and the middle part of the valley of the Gila, the country is less elevated than to: the north and south of that line. The level of Lake Guzman, situated westsouthwest of El Paso, is, according to Mr. Schuchart, even lower than. that of the Rio Grande at El Paso. Lake Santa Maria must have about the same level. Into this latter lake the Rio Mimbres, which comes from the north, is said to empty in time of copious rains; while from the south the Rio de Santa Maria, emptying into the same lake, rushes down from the central plains of Chihuahua. A line traced from these two lakes to the Dry Eagoon of Cook’s route, forms a northwestern continuation of this depression of the table-land; and from the latter place the middle part of the Gila may be reached without overcoming any considerable elevation, which, however, would be found to exist to the north as well as to the south of that line. The upper Gila runs in a narrow part of the higher country north of it; and though its bottom may be even lower than the level of the open country along the general line of depression, still that does not form an objection against the general construction, as it has neither an opening to the Rio Grande nor is it accessible much higher up than where the road from Tucson first strikes it. If Cook’s wagon route, in taking from Dry Lagoon a southwestern course to the Guadalupe pass, deviates to the south of our line, it is because it follows a series of fine watering and pasture-places, situated just between the mountains of the highest section of country, which contains the origin of the southern. affluents of the Gila and of the northern river of Sonora. "ae
9. Thus it would appear that an ocean of a level not much higher than the Rio Grande near El Paso would separate Mexico from the rest of North America.
But an ocean of that level—setting aside the more important changes it would produce in the form of our continent—would cover the Colorado desert, and, extending over the deep mountain passes southeast of Los Angeles, would gain the Pacific here, and make an island of Lower California.
It is very possible that such a state of things has really once existed. The nearly horizontal strata of the cretaceous formation of Texas appear to enter in a western direction and unconformable superposition between elevations of other sedimentary rocks and granite, syenitic, porphyritic, and trachytic mountains, which must have already existed’ when, and must have been above the surface of the ocean in which

<<<Page: 543>>>

the cretaceous strata were deposited. Strata of that formation, in unconformable superposition, appear to exist at several places between upheaved and eruptive tracts of country, in northern Chihuahua and Sonora. And if a closer geological investigation should really prove that, a little south of the upper and coinciding with the lower Gila, a branch of the ocean should once have formed a strait across what is now forming our present continent, we might say that some hundred thousand years ago the natural line of a railroad, which in our days should connect the eastern and western side of that continent, was already traced by nature.
It is an interesting fact that the desert north of the Lower Colorado, which is in the western continuation of that old range of lower country, is, even now, perhaps, the lowest spot of the American continent—as, according to recent measurements, it is in part even somewhat under the level of the ocean. While travelling through that country, I was struck by certain phenomena connected with the periodical filling and drying of what has been called New River, and of the several lagoons connected with it. The immense mud deposits of Lattle Lagoon, which I have examined, prove the former existence of long and uninterrupted periods in which the water of the Colorado entered the desert and kept the bed of New River, together with the basins of this lagoon, full; while the existence of mezquit trees, now killed by its water, from which the upper parts of their trunks and branches emerge in a dead state, proves that other uninterrupted periods have passed when the water of the Colorado did not enter the desert. Now, it has been asserted that these fluctuations are the consequence of the more copious or more scanty rains in the countries drained by the Colorado and its tributaries; but the fluctuations appear to have been of such an extent in time and level, that the cause assigned to them appears to me to be inadequate to the effect, and | am more inclined to believe that the phenomenon is, at least in part, produced
_ by fluctuations of the ground in consequence of the action of subterra-
nean forces. There is a large solfatara even now in action at the northern side of the Lower Colorado.
10. But to return to my strictly geographical object: It follows from the foregoing statements and remarks that the great longitudinal basin which constitutes the inner part of the western section of our continent, is divided, by a depression of soil which runs from the Middle Rio Grande to the Middle Gila, into a northern and a southern table-land, the former being that of New Mexico, Utah, Upper Oregon, and other more northern countries—the latter that of Mexico in its present confines, as they have been fixed by the Gadsden purchase. At the same time it can be seen how great an error it is, affecting the whole physical geography of the continent, to bring the Sierra Madre into connexion with the Rocky mountains. It makes the western marginal chain of the southern to be the continuation of the eastern marginal chain of the northern half of the great longitudinal basin, separating analogous and confounding heterogenous phenomena of orography, of climatology, and of the distribution of vegetable and animal life. Those who have studied the climate, and the flora and fauna of these regions, will find that I am right in my assertions.

<<<Page: 544>>>

Some Remarks on the Natural History of Beaver Islands, Michigan. BY JAMES J. STRANG.
Saint JAMES, BEAvER Isuanp, December 7, 1853. , repiee of Smithsonian Institution:
I have prepared for your use the following lists of animals, plants, &c., found upon the “ Beaver Islands,” in Lake Michigan, which I beg to submit to you. [am aware that these lists are quite imperfect, but hope they will serve some useful purpose until better can be prepared.
Truly and sincerely, yours, JAMES J. STRANG.
DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Horses, oxen, sheep, swine, dogs, cats. WILD ANIMALS.
Foxes, red, quite numerous.
Foxes, black, scarce; silver grey, very rare. Some hunters assert that these are the same variety, the colour only distinguishing the sex. The silver grey is the most valuable fur in market, a single skin bemg priced at more than fifty dollars.
Hare, or rabbit. Two species, large and small.
Chipmunk, or red ground-squirrel.
Otter, very scarce.
The beaver are extinct. Caribou, or reindeer, range as far south as here, but visit the islands only on the ice, and very “rarely. Elk are found on the east shore, and bears on both. American deer are found as near as Green Bay and Manistee river, piloting covilization.
Geese, brant, duck (numerous varieties), loons, gulls (two varieties), crows, hawks, (several varieties), woodcock, pigeons, blackbird, robin, redheaded woodpecker, snipe, snowbird, pewee.
In some of the small streams on the mainland “brook trout’’ are found in abundance. Most of the streams are destitute of them, but abound in other fish, the names of which I do not know.

<<<Page: 545>>>

The small lakes within the islands, as well as the mainland, are well stocked with fish, of which perch, suckers, and bass, are the most abundant.
In lake Michigan, among and around the islands, are sturgeon, pike, pickerel, siskowit, trout, whitefish, herring, suckers, perch, ling or lawyers.
SturceEon, (Aupenser.)—I have been able to learn very little of the habits of the sturgeon. While the shoal channels among the islands are frozen, the tribe of Indians residing on Garden Island depend much upon them for subsistence. They are usually taken with spears, in from one to four fathoms water. /
The quality of the flesh is very fine. Properly cooked, it can scarcely be distinguished from veal cutlet. They also make from them considerable quantities of lamp-oil, quite superior to that furnished by contractors for the light-houses.
The mode of taking them is as follows: The fishermen go onto the ice at the favorite resorts of the sturgeon, and cut holes through the ice about one foot in diameter. By the side of the hole they put down a small quantity of hemlock or cedar brush, (either of which is an antidote to frost.) :
On the brush the fisherman lies down, with his head over the hole, covering himself entirely with his blanket, so as to keep out all light, except what reflects up from the water. He is provided with a spear of great strength, usually consisting of but one tine, with three or four barbs on one side. The spear-handle is thirty or forty feet long, and of heavy wood, so that it will penetrate the water with a slight effort. The spear is not made fast to the handle, but slightly pressed into a mitre in the end of it; so that the first motion of the fish will take the spear out of the handle. But the spear is connected to the handle by a strong cord several fathoms in length. The reason for this is, that the struggles of the fish would break a very strong spear handle if the spear was fastened. But, by this arrangement, the fish spends his strength in pulling upon the cord, without being able to get loose.
It is supposed the fish congregate around the holes in the ice to breathe the fresh air. The fisherman watches their coming, and seizing the first favorable opportunity, seldom fails of taking one if within twenty or thirty feet. The sturgeon are exceedingly shy. They are not sought in the summer, and very seldom taken in seeking other fish.
Ihave never learned the weight of sturgeon in this region. They are usually from four to seven feet long—and are of value simply as winter subsistence for the Indians.
Pike and Pickerel—I can communicate nothing reliable concerning pike and pickerel. They are taken in small quantities for market ; but none of the fishermen have been able to give me any information as to their habits. It is even disputed among fishermen whether they are not one and the same variety of fish, though, I think, without any good reason.
Sisxowrr, (Salmo siskowit.\—Siskowit abound principally in Lake Superior, where the best quality are taken. But they are taken in limited quantities in Lake Michigan. Fishermen generally suppose they are a mule between trout and white-fish, and their appearance

<<<Page: 546>>>

favors this opinion. But they are very abundant in parts of Lake Superior where the quantity of white-fish and trout is not large, and in various parts of Lakes Huron and Michigan. Where white-fish and trout are always found together, no siskowit are found ; which is hardly consistent with the theory that they are produced by a crossing of the two. Five minutes’ intelligent observation at the spawning season would dispel the doubt, but I can find no person who has made it.
The siskowit is the fattest of all fish, and yet has no unpleasant or oily odor. It is valued in market above all the fish of the lakes. But there is a species of white-meated trout, of indifferent quality, so greatly resembling siskowit that it is frequently sold under that name, by which means the siskowit is undervalued, except where well known.
Mackinac Trout (Salmo amethystus)—The trout of this region have a world-wide fame, under the name of Mackinac trout. There is no good reason for the use of this local name, as they are found from Dunkirk, on Lake Erie, to Fond du Lac, on Lake Superior, and Milwaukee, on Lake Michigan, and I presume through a much wider region. What relation they bear to the trout of other regions I am unable to determine.
The trout are great eaters, and subsist principally on other fish. They are always pursuing white-fish and herring, and are not unfrequently caught in the nets while stealing white-fish from them.
Indians take them in the winter with spears, in the same manner as the sturgeon; also, in the same manner, with snatch-hooks instead of spears, using an artificial decoy fish, but no bait.
Trout are taken for market by trolling, with snatch-hooks, set hooks, gill-nets, and seines.
The apparatus for snatching trout can hardly be described as “a stick and a string, with a worm at one end and a fool at the other.” A trout hook is made of steel wire, from one fourth to three eighths of an inch in diameter, is weighted with about two pounds of lead, in the shape of two cones with the bases joined, through which the shank passes lengthwise. The line is a cotton one of the strength of a bed cord, usually from three to six hundred feet in length. In fishing through the ice, the moment a bite is felt the fisherman throws the line over his shoulder, and runs with all his might, in a direct line, till the fish is on the ice. When in a boat, he allows the fish to run with the hook, occasionally pulling lightly, till the captive’s strength is exhausted, and then pullshim in. Ashigh as eighteen barrels have been snatched in one week by two persons; but four barrels a week is very good fishing.
Of trolling and set-hooking I could add nothing to what is generally known, except that the apparatus corresponds in strength with that used in snatching. Seining and gili-netting will be described under the head of whitefish.
[think the average weight of trout caught in seines and gill-nets (after dressing) is not above four pounds. Those caught with hooks are a trifle heavier. But individuals weighing fifteen pounds are common, and they have been taken of above fifty pounds weight.
Their spawning season is in autumn, about the first of November; but

<<<Page: 547>>>

individuals are found with mature spawn several mouths earlier. I have thought it possible that they spawn more than once a year.
i WuiterisH (Coregonus).—The whitefish are the most abundant, and, as an article of commerce, the most valuable fish of this region. Fifty thousand barrels per annum are taken among the Beaver Islands, and the quantity is rapidly increasing. As an article of food they are preferred to the trout, and inferior only to siskowit. Indians occasionally take them through the ice with spears. But they are only caught in quantities with seines and gill-nets.
Seines of all sizes are used in the usualmanner. The seining begins soon after the disappearance of the ice in the spring, and lasts from one to three weeks, when various kinds of fish are taken, suckers being most abundant, but whitefish are taken in large quantities. The spawning season makes about three weeks of whitefish seining in November.
Fishing is principally done with gill-nets. The season begins from the middle of May to the forepart of June, according to the warmth of the weather, and usually ends the first week in December.
Gill-nets are usually about five or six feet wide, and twenty rods long. If designed for trout the meshes are four inches, for whitefish three and a half, and for herring three inches. When set for fishing, one edge is weighted with stones and the other buoyed up with cedar floats, so that they maintain a vertical position. From six to twelve nets
» are bridled together and called a gang.
When the nets are prepared for setting, the fisherman takes them to some favorite resort of the fish, usually a feeding or spawning place, and first sinks a stone anchor to the bottom and makes fast to it a buoy with a flag-staff and flag attached; then fastening the end of the gang to a buoy by aline long enough to reach the bottom, he rows or sails his boat in the direction he wishes to place the nets, paying out the nets as the boat moves till he gets to the end, when he fastens to it another buoy and flag by a line long enough to drop the net to the bottom.
The nets are usually left in the water three days, when they are lifted, the fish taken out, stones and floats taken off, and the nets dried, repaired, and prepared for setting again. Twenty fish to a net is a good yield, but as many as one hundred are sometimes taken.
Whitefish come into the shoals in the spring (for what purpose I have been unable to learn); hence the spring seining. The first gilling is usually in from two to five fathoms water. As the season advances they retire to deeper water, till by the first of September they are found in from fifty to one hundred and fifty fathoms water. Indeed, off Fox Island nets have been set with success in water fourteen bundred feet deep. The largest fish come from the deep water.
The spawning season begins in November, and terminates in December. This year (1853) it commenced November 11, and is apparently just closing (December 7). The spawning season is indicated by the fish leaving deep water and appearing in immense numbers on
rocky shoals. The first day they appear upon the shoals the nets take all males, apparently well stocked with milt. The second day a few females appear among them, plump with spawn. The proportion of

<<<Page: 548>>>

286 i NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF |
females increases till after a week or ten days, when they are two, three, and four times as many as the males, after which the females slowly disappear, and the males last leave the spawning ground.
The best opinion seems to be that the males precede the females only to prepare the ground, especially as they at that time assume an extraordinary roughness of the scales, and employ themselves constantly in scraping up gravel on which the spawn is subsequently deposited. Some, however, believe that the mere inclination to milt causes them to seek the proper positions without reference to the presence or absence of females. Others still are of opinion that they preceed only to wait for the females, and do not commence milting till the spawning commences. ‘The males have been accused of lingering on the spawing ground to feast on the spawn; but this is contrary to nature, and, undoubtedly, a slander. The most careful observers assure me they are employed in covering up the spawn.
Seining during the spawning season is the most productive of all fishing. ‘I'wenty barrels with a seine one hundred rods long is a common haul. One hundred and forty-seven barrels have been taken at a single haul. But there are very few places adapted to it. The only situation adapted to it is a smooth sand or shingle beach, a bottom free from rocks and surrounded by rocky reefs.
Herrine (Coregonus)—Herring are taken in the same manner as whitefish; also in gill nets, set under the ice in winter. They are usually the first taken in the spring. I have not been able to learn” their spawning season; and their habits have been very little observed. When heavy winds prevail, they seek shelter in quiet bays, and in the lee of the various islands. Flocks of gulls hover over them continually, and carnivorous fish pursue them wherever they go, even into the nets. They are killed by a very slight touch. Indeed, they seem to be the prey of everything that eats fish.
The average weight of dressed herring is not above one pound. They are usually pickled in the same manner as whitefish, and not unfrequently sold under that name, but are too small to be desirable. When scalded and smoked, after the Scotch mode, they are equal to any ever found in market, and are remarkable for fatness. Labor is too dear to justify saving them in this manner.
I have never compared them anatomically with salt-water herring, and therefore do not know whether these are genuine herring. But from flavor and general appearance, I presume they are.
Herring, whitefish, and trout, are found of several varieties, differing materially in their qualities, and something in their appearance and habits. But we have no names for the several varieties, and their peculiarities have not been noted.
Suckers (Catastomus)—The lake suckers, though similar to the fish of the same name in most of the western rivers, are very superior in quality for eating. For this reason, and to avoid the ill repute of the name “sucker,” they are usually sold under the name of “lake shad,” a name founded merely on caprice, and used for purposes of fraud. ‘They are not supposed to bear any resemblance to the shad.
Suckers are usually taken with seines, early in the spring, at the

<<<Page: 549>>>

mouths of rivers and beacitey *They frequent particular shores and shoals in June, but whether for spawning or some other purpose, I have been unable to learn; they are there taken with seines in ereat quantities. Suckers are sometimes taken for manure alone.
Prercu.—Perch abound in all the waters of this region, except mere brooks, and are in constant use fresh, but are never preserved in any way. I find no man who has observed their habits in any respect. They are taken with hooks and spears with so much facility, that children hook them with pins, and spear them with sharpened rods.
Bass.—Bass, of two or three varieties, are found in one of the lakes within this island; I presume they abound in others. No notice has been taken of their habits, and I can get no information concerning them from those who fish for them every year. They are taken both winter and summer.
Line or Lawyers (Lota).—These are a valueless fish, taken in small numbers. They will live twenty-four hours out of water. No amount of boiling will make the flesh tender. If exposed it will hot rot, but only dries up like an oxhide. The Indians eat the livers only.
SunrisH (Pomotis).—Sunfish abound in all the small lakes. Nothing is noted of them. I cannot get even an intelligent description of them, though they are frequently caught for food.
GENERAL REMARKS.—T'rout subsist on all kinds of fish. They are a voracious fish of prey, seizing and devouring, so far as we can learn, every other kind, even their own. Herring are their constant prey. Whitefish of two pounds weight have been found within the belly of the trout. Small trout are sometimes found in them. Whitefish in gill-nets are gnawed and torn by them, and in this operation the largest trout are frequently themselves tangled in the meshes
of the nets and taken. It is supposed they seek the spawn of other kinds of fish, and that the whitefish seek rocky shores to avoid them;
and in support of this theory it is alleged, among other things, that when the whitefish are spawning nets set a little further out catch trout. Possibly, however, this may arise from the habit of the trout of spawning in a little deeper water. a
Whitefish subsist on a kind of worm of the same structure as the —
leech. Probably it may be a leech, but white and semi-translucent for want of red blood;to prey upon. Also upon the seed of a kind of seaweed, or submarine moss, which exists in great abundance in all the deep waters of this region. On inquiry of a dozen intelligent fishermen I can hear of but one instance of a whitefish being found with fish in
his belly.
Throughout the fishing region there are vast submarine meadows,
rising almost to the dignity of forests. Probably most of the fish subsist on this growth, and a few only by prey. If this is the case, the supply of fish will ever be regulated by the productiveness of these
_fish-meadows; for so numerous are the spawn, that no conceivable
amount of catching can sensibly diminish the stock of fish. The usual _ spawn of a female is between fifty and one hundred thousand.
Whitefish are only found in very pure water. In channels of the
greatest depth, where steamboats are constantly passing and occasionplo, y 8
ally throwing over ashes and litter, the whitefish disappear.

<<<Page: 550>>>

Where fishing is extensively carried on, many nets are lost by the lines parting, and the buoys and flags going loose. The nets remain ~ at the bottom continually catching fish, which remain and _ perish. Other nets, with fish in them, are broken up by storms and left scattered about the bottom. The effect of this is to drive off the fish and destroy the fisheries. But no amount of fishing, where these calamities were avoided, has ever sensibly diminished their productiveness.
SpawNine GRounpDs.—In passing over the lake in the fishing region, when the surface is perfectly unrufHled, the man of science is surprised to see the bottom regularly paved with large stones. Careful observation shows that, naturally, the bottom was strewn with boulders, varying in weight from such as can be lifted with one hand to mountain masses of detached rock.
Selecting some convenient point with a large boulder as a nucleus, the others have been rolled together, so as to form a compact pavement, © in some instances, of many acres in extent without a single blank space. In doing this work all the other ground is cleared of rock, ex-cept here and there a boulder of several tons weight. ‘Throughout
‘these pavements a few large boulders remain scattered as by the hand of nature. But, except them, the smallest rocks are in the centre of each pavement, gradually enlarging as you approach the circumference, till the outside courses are only perceptibly less than the scattered boulders which remain unmoved. There is an entire absence of all” mathematical arrangement, but in its kind no work of man can be more perfect.
The islands of this region are an upheaval, and in several places these pavements are now above water and can be examined to ad# vantage, and there can be no mistake as to their structure. ‘They are? found in the greatest depths that the eye can penetrate. Some are a few rods and others many acres in extent; and the vacant spots intervening are (except occasionally an immense boulder) as_ thoroughly cleared of every kind of stone as a well-kept lawn. They present only the appearance of clean washed sand.
Fish, when spawning, are observed to place small stones and pebbles in this same order, and all are agreed that these are spawning grounds. — When it is considered that. the ponderability of stone in water diminishes as the depth increases, it may not be deemed incredible that the present known species of fish have made these pavements for spawn-_ ing grounds. I will not, however, speculate further, but submit the — fact for the consideration of those more capable of judging. :
A thousand avocations and duties constantly pressing upon me have prevented my giving the attention to these subjects that I would be pleased to. But if the few facts I have been able to obtain, and this hurried — communication, prepared in haste (with many others) in the few hours” that the last steamboat of the season lies in this harbor, is of any value, — I shall be quite happy to continue to correspond, and to continue, as — far as possible, to make observations for that purpose. |

<<<Page: 551>>>

On the habits of the Black Bass of the Ohio, ( Grystes fasciatus.) BY JOHN EOFF, ESQ., OF WHEELING.
‘‘On my return from a small hunting expedition to the head waters of Sand creek, Jackson County, Virginia, I found your kind letter of November 26; and, in order to comply best with your wishes and views therein expressed, I will give you such a description of one particular species of fish, (which I consider the most valuable, on account of their quality as a pan-fish and their quantity,) in our western streams, viz: the bass, (called by the early settlers in the western country, yellow, or black perch). They are a remarkably active and voracious fish, with a large and hard mouth, and vary in size, according to their age, from three quarters of a pound to three pounds, and occasionally have been caught to weigh as high as six pounds or seven pounds. Their food, when small, appears to be all kinds of insects, (flies, worms, &c.); when larger, though not entirely leaving off their earlier habits, their principal food is the smaller fish of other kinds. In the winter season they retire to deep and still water, and apparently hide under rocks, — logs, &c., and remain there until the 1st of April, when they come out ~ and begin to ascend the streams, apparently to find a convenient place for spawning, which commences about the 15th of May, varying some little according to the warmth of the season, &c. When that event is about taking place, they appear to separate into pairs, male and female, and hunt out some retired place, or nook, where the water is about eighteen inches deep, and still, but adjoining deeper water, to which they — can escape if alarmed; they there commence making their nests, . that is, washing all the mud, &c., off the bottom, so as to leave it perfectly clean, in a circular form, the diameter of the circle (or nest) being about twice the length of the fish; after which the female begins de-
_ positing her eggs, which appear to become glued to the bottom, or small
stones, in rows, after the deposit has taken place. She remains night. ”
_ and day, either on her nest, or swimming round about it, apparently ~
| guarding the eggs, and driving every other smaller fish away. This — watching or guarding continues until the eges are what is called
_ hatched, which occurs in from eight to ten days, according to the tem-
perature of the water. 'The young fish at first remain near the bottom,
_ and appear like a gauze veil floating. In two or three days they grad-
_ ually rise and spread, the old one leaves them, they separate, and each
_ one shifts for itself, 2. ¢., hides under leaves, small sticks, and stones.
__ I, as yet, have had no positive means of determining the precise time
_ for a young bass to arrive at maturity, but suppose it to be three years,
from the following facts. In the spring of the year (April) you may
find large numbers of young bass about two or two and a half inches in
_ length, rather in company with other minnows; in the following autumn
_and fall of the year you will find very few of that size, but congrega-
ting together, and alone you will find a number from three to four inches in length; while during the same fall you may catch young bass of
_ about eight inches long, with the formation of the young egg within
them, preparatory for spawning the following spring. In the spawn| Mis. Doc. 24——-19

<<<Page: 552>>>

ing season you will find a large number of nests of small bass, the bass being ten or eleven inches long, which I have always concluded were three years old. Hence, from the above facts, you will perceive that the bass of our western country are valuable, and, at the same time, can be easier transferred, and in greater quantities, from one stream to another, than almost any other fish. All that is necessary to supply a pond with any quantity, would be to examine their nests at the time they are spawning, and to pick up the small gravel out of their nests, with the eggs attiehed thereto, and put them in a bucket of water, and place phon in your pond, in such a position that smaller fish could not devour the eggs; and in a short time they would hatch, and the young ones would help themselves. Or, to secure a larger quantity ina short time, wait until the young are hatched, and ‘are in innumerable quantities, suspended over the nest; then, with a .piece of gauze net, dip them up and empty them in a vessel containing ‘as much } pure water as will sustain them until you can convey them to your pond; and then, as I before observed, they can support them«selves, while young, on insects, &c. Or, early in April or May, if you are fond of angling, you can go to a stream in which there are plenty,
) and in catching fifteen or twenty, will almost always get nearly one half the number smaller ones. Put these into your pond unhurt; and, as they have not spawned that season, they will soon stock the water. Then all that remains to be done is to supply your pond with other small fish, minnows, &c., for food for the large bass, and they will increase in quantity just in ‘proportion to their supply of food. Hence I am satisfied that if a farmer would convert one acre of his land into a pond, well supplied with fresh water, that acre would raise and support more fish yearly (the value of which would be more,) than any other two acres cultivated in any other he expense of cultivating © deducted from each. | Mr. William Shriver, a gentleman of this place, and son of the late |
~ David Shriver, esq., of Cumberland, Maryland, thinking the Potomac | river admirably suited to the cultivation of the bass, has commenced © the laudable undertaking of stocking that river with them; he has already taken, this last season, some twenty or more in a nes box. in the | water tank on the CE and placed them in the canal basin at | Cumberland, where we are in hopes they will expand and do well, and | be a nucleus from hich the stock will soon spread.

<<<Page: 553>>>

Some Remarks on the Natural History of the country about Fort Ripley,
Minnesota.
BY J. F. HEAD, SURGEON US. ARMY. Communicated by the Surgeon General of the United States Army.
[Extract. |
* * * The mammalia most frequently found are the prairie and
large gray wolf, (Canis latrans and C. occidentalis,) the former very abundant ; the red deer, (Cervus virginianus,) not very numerous 3 the ground squirrel, (Sciurus striatus,) field mouse, (Mus leucopus?) weazel, (Mustela erminea,) muskrat, (Fiber zibethicus,) badger, (Meles labradoria,) and porcupine, (Hystrix dorsata,) and occasionally the otter, (Lutra braziliensis,) marten, (Mustela martes,) mink, (M. lutreola,) skunk,» (Mephietis amer.,) lynx, (Lynx canadensis,) and red fox, (Canis fulvus.) Other varieties of fox are taken somewhat further north, (C. decus-» satus, C. argentatus, and C. cinereo-argentatus,) and may inhabit this — neighborhood. The black bear, (Ursus americanus,) though found in the surrounding country, has never been seen in the immediate — vicinity of the post. The moose (Cervus alces) and carabou (C. turandus) are said to be occasionally seen at about one hundred and fifty miles north, and the elk (C. canadensis) on the prairies thirty or forty miles west of this place. The gray squirrel (Sczwrus carolinensis) is not found in any part of the territory. The buffalo (Bison _ americanus) does not approach within one or two hundred miles. In — the autumn of 1848 the varying hare, (Lepus americanus,) vulgo ‘white — rabbit,” was very abundant, but during the following year (the winter of which was not unusually severe) they almost completely disappeared from a region for many miles around this point. Many of the Indians, | who depend much on these animals for subsistence during the winter, 6 Were consequently reduced to actual starvation. Of birds the following species have been identified: The golden eagle, (Falco fulvus,) bald eagle, (F. leucocephalus,) owl, (Strix virginzana,) meadow lark, (Stwrnus ludovicianus,) red-winged and cow blackbirds, (Icterus pheniceus and I. pecoris,) crow blackbird, (Quiscalus versicolor, raven, (Corvus coraz,) crow, (C. americanus,) blue jay, (C. cristatus,) chickadee, (Parus atricapillus,) cedar bird, (Bombycilla carolinensis,) king bird, (Muscicapa tyrannus,) pewee, (M. fusca,) thrush, ( Turdus rufus,) robin, (T. migratorius,) yellow bird, (Sylvia @stiva?) blue bird, (Siala wilsonii,) (rare,) snow bunting, (Emberiza nivalis,) wood-peckers, (Picus auratus, P. erythrocephalus, P. pubescens, king-fisher, (Alcedo aleyon,) swallow, (Hirundo rufa,) whipper-will and night-hawk, (Caprimulgus vociferus. C. virg.,) pigeon, (Columba migratoria,) “ pheasant,” or “partridge,” (Tetrao umbellus,) grouse, (I. cupido,) *golden plover, (Charadrius pluvialis,) killdeer, (Ch. vociferus,) crane, (Grus canadensts,)
* This bird, at first rather rare, but now rapidly multiplying in this vicinity, differs somewhat in plumage, and perhaps in its habits, from the descriptions of T. cupido. It is possibly T. phasianellus. Never having examined other species before coming to this station, and possessing neither a plate nora good description of the latter bird when specimens were procurable, I am at present unable to determine the question.

<<<Page: 554>>>

green heron, (Ardea virescens,) curlew, (Numenius longirostris,) sandpipers, (Tringe,) yellow-feet, (Totanus vociferus,) smaller do., (T. flavipes, (peet-weet,) (T. macularius,) upland plover, (T. bartrani ?) snipe, (Scolapax wilsontt,) a few woodcock, (Se. minor,) rail, (Rallus,) coot, (Fulica americana,) horned grebe, (Podiceps cornutus,) terus, (Sterna, several species,) goose, (Anser canadensis,) brant, (A. bernicla,) loon, (Colymbus glacialis,) Mergus merganser, M. cucullatus. Ducks of the following species, and doubtless others not identified: the golden-eye, (Fuligula clangula,) scaup duck, or blue-bill, (£. marila,) buffel-head, (F. albeola,) dusky duck, (Anus obscura,) mallard, (A. boschas,) summer duck, (Anus sponsa,) and teal (A. discors and A. crecca). 'The ducks* pass this point nearly in the order of the above enumeration, on their way northward, the first appearing about the middle of April, and return nearly in an inverse order late in August and early in September. A few individuals of nearly all the above-mentioned species appear to breed in this latitude, as does also occasionally the Canada goose. Lingering for a few weeks about the rice-lakes in this vicinity, where they acquire a fine condition and flavor, they continue their course to the south in October and November, by the middle of which month the last of the migratory tribes have disappeared; and the grouse having retired into the recesses of the forest, the raven, blue jay, and snow » bunting are left apparently the sole feathered inhabitants of this desolate region.
The reptiles have scarcely been noted. Of serpents, the only species
seen are the common “garter snake,”’ (Coluber sirtalis,) and a species of adder. The rattle-snake, if ever met above the falls of St. Anthony, must be very rare. ‘Two are reported to have been killed at Sac Rapids, about 50 miles south of this place.
The fish most abundant in the Mississippi at this point, and in the neighboring streams and small lakes, (which appear to be least scantily supplied Th them,) are the ‘“glass-eye,”? Ohio ‘‘salmon,” or pike
‘perch, (Luctoperca americana,) lake bass, (Grystes nigricans?) and rock bass, (Centrarchus @neus?) or species much resembling ee yellow perch, (Perca Rewscen) of small size and somewhat rare; a large species of sun-fish, (Pomotis appendix,) pike weighing from one to eight pounds, (Hsox vittatus?) small cat-fish, (Pimelodus,) And a variety of suckers, &c., (Cyprinidae). "The gar-pike (Lepidosteus) has never been seen, nor are any of the salmonids found in the streams falling
into the Mississippi north of the Falls of St. Anthony. A species of
whitefish, called by the Indians tulabie, (a Coregonus’) is taken, however, in some of the lakes nearer to the sources of this river.» A large pike, specifically distinct from that above mentioned, and weighing from eight to forty pounds, is occasionally taken here, and more fre quently in the river Minnesota. Two specimens captured here weighed, respectively, 18 or 20 pounds. The only one examined seems to differ both from E. boreus and E. estor.
The entomologist would find a wide field for research in this region. Insect life here appears to compensate for its brevity by its astonishing activity. During the short summer, the woods and prairies swarm
*The canvass-back duck and red-head (F. valisneria and F. ferina) have never been observed here, though both are frequently met at Fort Snelling.

<<<Page: 555>>>

with insects, among the most noticeable of which are the mosquito, the large ‘‘horse-fly,” and the “black fly”’—a small dipterous insect with black body and white legs. The last two species inflict almost inconceivable torture on the domestic animals, effectually keeping in poor condition those turned out to graze, and obliging the farmer regularly to make a large smoke at night to windward of his cattle yard. The mosquitos are said to be more abundant here during June and July than in the swamps of Louisiana, and are a most serious annoyance, both by day and night, to those whose pursuits call them abroad. The honey-bee is unknown here, but is reported to have appeared in the southera portion of the Territory within a few years. = *
On the habits of the Gopher of Illinois (Geomys bursartus ).
I send to the Institution a young gopher, a little more than nalt grown, which I hope will reach you in safety. If he arrives «live, take a flour barrel and fill it half full of moist earth, potatoes, crn, or beets, at the bottom, for food, and he will dig down and help himself, if the earth is .compact, so that he can make a hole in it without its caving in upon him. I have never seen them drink; but it will be well to set a dish of water where he can come out on the top of the earth and drink it. Keep the barrel covered loosely, but so that he cannot climb out; and set it on a floor or plank, so that if he should get out he need not get easily into the ground. His habits of digging and eating you will see only by careful watching in the barrel. He uses his paws and his pouches to carry both dirt and food. He digs long holes — in the ground, extending sometimes for rods or even miles, about two feet below the surface, and at suitable distances makes side cuts, at an angle of about 45°, running from the longitudinal main track up to the surface. Through these side cuts he carries up the dirt from the trunk below, as long as he finds it convenient to retain it, in his pouches—then he turns back and fills this side cut full of quite hard earth down to his main trenches, and then makes another and another side cut further on—filling all these up and stopping every crevice where light or air can enter, so that his abode, when finished, is one long winding passage, wholly excluded from all light and air, from one to three or four, perhaps more feet under ground—generally about two feet, except in places where it is made deeper to deposite food in piles, or to procure water. In these subterranean passages he lives at all times, and gathers food, roots, &c., in summer, and stores them in large deep holes for winter. He is never seen above ground except in the rare cases when food becomes scarce in one field, or for some other cause he prefers another ; then he will sometimes condescend to walk a part of the way above ground, rather than persevere in his migration by digging below, and then for most part only in the night. Whether they live in droves or families, or only in pairs, is uncertain; but if two strange gophers are put together, they at once attack each

<<<Page: 556>>>

other, and the victor devours his antagonist. I cannot, therefore, send you a pair at once, as I promised; and this is the first and only one I have seen this summer, except one killed and mangled in taking, so thoroughly did my boys wage their war of extermination on them last year. I will watch for more in the spring, if wanted. I have not time now for a more particular description, but will answer in future any questions desired. You are aware of its mischievous destruction of hedges and fruit-trees, as also of clover and all root crops.
On the habits of a species of Salamander, ( Amblystoma opacum.) Bd. BY THE REV. CHARLES MANN.
GroucesTER C. H., Varginia.
One of my sons requests me to say that, in all the cases in which he had found the Salamander with eggs, the latter were under the animals, both male and female being curled up over them. From the number found in this way, there can be little doubt of the eggs having been laid by the animals. This was the case withthe specimen sent. The _ first specimen obtained a year ago with eggs, which he could find no _ means of sending you, and the one sent, were found in November. He says, he has seen them in the summer with eggs. ‘The localities are the beds of small ponds in the woods, which in rainy seasons have water in them, but were dry when he obtained these. [sent a younger son, the other day, to get other specimens ; and he returned saying he found but one pair, and they ran into the water (the late rains having partially filled the pond). These had hatched, and had several young. The nests of the one sent, and of others previously taken, were in a small hollow in the surface of the earth, deeply covered with leaves, and under which were tunnels extending in various directions. In these hollows the animals were, as I have said, curled up over their eggs. My son has been too much otherwise engaged to look for other specimens as yet, but will search for more and send them on if he succeeds in getting them. The specimens I mentioned in my letter were more teresting, because the eggs contained the embryos, as I supposed, near the period of hatching. Not knowing how to keep them, I put them in a box of sand; ive old ones escaped, and the eggs dried up. The other varieties were found in a spring branch. We are fully assured they are oviparous ; the old opinion of the young taking refuge in the stomach of the mother, may or may not be true.. Of the common lizard, we have more than once found the eggs with perfectly formed animals in them, on one occasion so formed, that the young ¢ one ran away on the covering of the egg being cut.
My sons request me to send you some more Salamanders. A large one with one hundred and eight eggs under it was found in December. The young animals were so far matured that they were in motion as soon as released from the covering. The largest specimen
was found near a pond, say twenty or thirty feet from it, and tunnels,

<<<Page: 557>>>

like those of mole hills, extended from the nest in every direction under the leaves, as if the animals had been in search of food. Nosmall ones have been found out of the water, except the very small ones which we send. you, and these have come from the broken eggs.
On the Amblystoma luridum, a Salamander inhabuing Wisconsin. BY P. R. HOY, M. D., OF RACINE, WISCONSIN.
Characteristics: Back bluish-black, with light amber spots; tail compressed, larger than the body; length 11 inches.
Description: Body robust, smooth, and shiny; head large; snout rounded; eye moderately prominent; neck short, with a distinct cervical fold; nostril small, sub-lateral; mouth opening beyond the eyes ; tail sub-quadrangular at its origin, then becomes compressed laterally, moderately arched, and terminated in an obtuse point, rounded on the upper and under edges, with a notch above just below the vent. A vertebral furrow at the termination of the body and origin of the tail. Legs stout, anterior four toed, the posterior five toed, and two fifths larger.
Color: Above, back, tail, head, and extremities bluish-black, with reddish reflection, and spotted with pale amber ; mouth and circle round the eye reddish lemon ; flanks with a row of large oblong orange spots slightly varied with lemon yellow. Below, abdomen slate-blue, spotted irregularly with pale lemon and orange ; tail, inside of legs and feet, thickly punctate with black, toes all tipped with the same ; throat _ and chin orange, irregularly sprinkled with crimson points.
LiGite 6 263 ARR PR lead Rn Sale ea Se ae eee 11.00 Btead: anki nody, to centre, Of Vent... sia. bons Soe ake Va n= 5.25Tri Rigs gel a" IS rein it ae ita aaa i EN RD iieag, Jenetn kevmlariolds 2" 2k oe ok ll ee ot Sea 1.20; ea” ibreadtmumetweenl, Le +CVCS. 210-00 atjn)5 4-10 <0 « wee l= ain cin 0.72 CS SR DISC SAIC RON CEN ERS fae I a ie 1.00 7 breadth bemween the MosiTils. .. 4s. e. es Bc... sere 0.40 SP alp bneadth ativemie sion ke i oC es 0.80 “ cs) OneMnGM WELOW 20 2 2e Wee. «cok oe l o.s «ae ee ae 0.95 6c Cee cpm ee Lins CR ete Toke andi a Zee 2k een om 0.35 Ein lemincludinetlamgest toe... 2. S.<2 = -sufed= ~ 4 . Lio Fore-leg, as iar eae SOPRA SEN yA a 2. Pop Mfonsest toc ohind-memee . os ek ee a 0.43 Bonscst toevelfore-oome 28. ke ek. Moe 0.26
Their motion on land is slow, but they swim with activity. They resent any insult offered to their mouth or eyes by quick and repeated strokes with their ample tails. I have met with but two individuals of this fine reptile, which were found about my cellar after a wet night.—(The first October 20, 1849, and the last November 1, 1850.) They are nocturnal, and, probably, only quit the water in the fall in order to seek some congenial winter quarters.

<<<Page: 558>>>

Of an excursion to the runs of Abé, Quarra, and Gran Quivira, in New Mexico, under the command of
Wepnespay, December 14, 1853.
A squadron of cavalry, formed of company ‘“H,” first dragoons,
commanded by First Lieutenant Samuel D. Sturgis, and company “KK,” first dragoons, commanded by Brevet Major James Henry Carleton, in all one hundred strong, with one 12-pounder mountain howitzer, left Albuquerque, at eleven o’clock this morning, as an expedition to explore the country around the ruins of Gran Quivira, New Mexico, and for other objects connected with the bands of Apache Indians who ‘often infest that portion of the territory.
Our route, for the first forty miles, lies down the left bank of the Rio Grande. This part of the country has often been described. Its prin-_ cipal features are easily named. The Rio Grande, at this point, averages about one hundred yards in width, and not more than eighteen . inches in depth. Its waters are turbid, like those of the Kanzas. Its bottom and banks are composed of sand. The valley along the river
is very level, and usually not over two feet higher than the surface of the water. In some places it is more than two miles broad. It has a great deal of sand mixed with the soil; but it is remarkably fertile. From this valley a second bottom, or table-land, extends, by a gradual ascent, back to the mountains on either hand. This table-land is destitute of water and uncommonly sterile. The lower level, which skirts the river, and which is irrigated from it, is the source of nearly all the agricultural wealth of New Mexico.
_A storm of rain which came on yesterday continued, almost without intermission, for the whole of last night and until late this forenoon ; the roads are, therefore, very muddy. In consequence of the heaviness of the travelling, the squadron was encamped near the residence of an American gentleman, named Baird, seven miles 694-yards below Albuquerque. Here we are able to obtain wood and hay; but we are obliged to send across the Rio Grande to purchase corn.
Tuurspay, December 15, 1853.
About four o’clock this morning it commenced snowing, with a piercing wind from the north. Our poor horses, exposed to the inclemency of the storm, were soon chilled and trembling with the cold. By eight o’clock the weather began to moderate; but we had snow

<<<Page: 559>>>

squalls, from different points of the compass, for the whole forenoon. Before we reached a little hamlet, called Valencia, fourteen miles 265 yards from our camp of yesterday, we encountered a shower of rain and sleet. As in this place we could get two corrals, wherein our horses could be partially sheltered, it was decided that we should encamp here for the night. The weather seems singularly unpropitious for an expedition. It is said to be quite unusual to have these storms in New Mexico at this season of the year. ‘To-night, however, at nine o’clock, the clouds have all left the heavens, and we have promise of a fair day to-morrow.
Three Mexican citizens of respectability, a Mr. Chavis and two of his sons-in-law, came to our camp this evening, and informed Major Carleton that it was their intention to establish a colony of settlers at a point east of a range of mountains known as the Sierra Blanca, and along some streams Jaffuent to the Pecos, called the Seven Rivers; that they ‘proposed g eoing with thiscommand as far as Gran Quivira; and that from that point to the Seven Rivers they desired to be furnished with an escort of dragoons. They were told that they could accompany the expedition as far as Gran Quivira, but that no escort would be given beyond that point. They were informed that Brevet Lieutenant Colo— nel Chandler, of the army, was about to proceed from near Doria Ana, with three companies, directly to the country in the neighborhood of. the Seven Rivers, and, if they wished todo so, they could Hane the ad| vantage of his protection. Mr. Chavis concluded to go by the way of Gran Quivira, at all hazards; and to proceed across the country, from that point, even without an escort. The truth doubtless is, the old gentleman fancies that the purpose for which this squadron is going into that country is to search for a great amount of treasures which are
said to be buried beneath. the ruins there, and he hopes he may be able tu obtain a share of them.
Fripay, December 16, 1855.
The weather became very cold last night; all the ponds of water extending up and down the valley are frozen over, and the ground is hard and resounds loudly at the tread of the column. The sand-bars along the river seem to be covered with geese, ducks, and brant, which have been driven by the ice from the lagoons and sloughs. They are so tame they hardly fly at our approach. <
We arrived at a little town, called Casa Colorada, about four o’clock this afternoon. This place is thirty-nine miles 537 yards from Albuquerque. Here our road leaves the river for the mountains toward the east. As it will take two days to march to Manzana, the next and last point where we can procure any corn, we are encamped for the night ; and shall here buy, and haul in our wagons to-morrow, the forage our animals will require to that town.
The citizens of Casa Colorada gave a ball this evening in honor of our coming. The sudden arrival amongst them of so many armed men is a matter of great astonishment.
The result of our observations, as regards the general appearance of the inhabitants of the country, made during these first forty miles of

<<<Page: 560>>>

our march, may be stated in a few words. The dirty little villages through which we have passed, as well as those we have seen in the dance, have generally turned cut their inhabitants en masse to get a sight at us. This gave us a sight at them. Had we been painters it would doubtless have been an interesting one; for men, women, children—motley assemblages—exhibited themselves to us in groupes picturesque, as well as in ‘crowds grotesque. Some blanketed, with sombreros and cigarritos ; some with whitewashed and some with scarlet-dyed faces, some with rebosos, some nearly naked, some on housetops shading their eyes with their hand, and some peering through chinks and crannies in the mud walls of their dwellings; but all curious as to whence we came and whither we were going. The national expression of Quien sabe appeared deeply written on every face. In no rancho or village have we seen a solitary indication of industry, cleanliness, or thrift since we left i Albuquerque ; and it may be remarked, parenthetically, that we have yet to see, in that town, the first evidence of these cardinal virtues. Indolence, squalid poverty, filth, and utter ignorance of everything beyond their corn-fields and acequias, seem to particularly characterize the inhabitants who are settled along the east bank of the river. We have seen nothing denoting energy on the part of any one, save that shown by the old man » Chavis and his two sons‘in-law. On the contrary, we could but observe amongst them what seemed to be a universal proclivity for rags, dirt, and filthiness, in all things; with sheer laziness and listlessness marking their every movement and all that they do. It may be said that the people whom we saw were of the lower order; but we were justified in coming to that conclusion from not seeing any of a better class.
SaturpDay, December 17, 1853.
We started this morning at cight o’clock. For about two miles our road lay up a gradually inclined plane, where we found ourselves on an almost level mesa that stretched, uninterruptedly, eastward to the base of those mountains which commence at the Sandia Peak and extend towards the south below El Paso del Norte.
This plain is sandy and entirely destitute of water. We saw several herds of cattle grazing upon it; but, so far as we could observe, there Was very scanty pasture. Our guide, a Mexican, informed us that ‘these herds are driven to the Rio Grande for water only once in two
days. We saw but a solitary flock of antelopes, numbering some ten
or twelve. This was midway between the river and the mountains. The scenery, viewed from elevated points on this plain, was very beautiful. ‘The Socorro and the Ciboletta ranges of mountains, and the distant peak s of others toward the north, were covered with snow, and gleamed in the sun with dazzling splehtlag: The long Sierras towards which we were now moving were also clothed ina winter-robe of white. They bounded the whole eastern horizon. ‘Their tall summits and jagged outline, like a fringed edge, standing sharp and cl: arly defined against the morning sky, 2 slowed in the light as if burnished with silver. While towards us palong their whole western slope—which

<<<Page: 561>>>

descended toward the plain as a coast towards the ocean—the valleys and precipices reposed in cold blue shadows, chilly enough to make the beholder shudder in looking upon them.
Just before arriving at thie foot of these mountains, we found a pond of water four hundred yards to the right of the road. Our guide informed us that in the dry season no water can be obtained at this place.
There are here two passes through the mountains; the one on the left hand going eastward, leading through a difficult cafon; is practicable only as a bridle path; the one on, ‘the right hand affords every natural facility for making a most excellent road for wagons.
o These passes are known, in the language of the country, ‘as Los
‘S) Puertos de Abé.. The summit of the right hand pass is nineteen miles and sixty-three yards from Casa Color rada, and lies east 20° south from that town. The road for this whole distance is by far the finest we had seen in New Mexico, and is not surpassed, in any point of excellence, by the celebrated shell road at New Orleans.
The first outcropping of stone which we observed as we approached the mountains was of quartz, trap, and greenstone. These are surmounted by numerous strata of fos siliferous limestone, of good quality. These strata in some places are hundreds of feet in ghiclmness. This latter formation prevails exclusively at the summit of the pass.
There is no timber of any kind to be met with until you come near the top of the mountains ; the erowth then is entirely of dwarfish pition and stunted cedar.
We encountered snow half way up the pass. The scene presented by the column winding its circuitous route to the summit, with parts of it lost to view behind some jutting crag, or just emerging into sight from some deep gorge—the foreground filled with the dragoons moving upon different turns of the road, ‘the sun glancing brightly on their appointments—the towering snow-clad peaks on either hand—the back ground the valley of the “Rio Grande, with the distant mountains in the northwest mar king with a serrated line the far off horizon—was a picture whose beauty will not easily be fo: gotten.
The general direction of the chain of mountains stretching northward of the pass toward Sandia Peak is north 10° west. The first elevated peaks southward of Sandia are called La Tetilla; the next La Sterra de la Manzana; then come Los Puertos de Abé; and then the high range still further south which is known as La Sterra del Palo Duro.
from the summit of the pass for the first two or three miles the road is very circuitous. It then has an easy gradual descent for about three miles further, when you come to a deep cation which lies entirely to the left, but im sight of the road, and at a distance from it of six or eight hundred yards. There, in the canon, good sweet water is always found. This place is called Agua de Juan Lujan. Near this, but a few hundred yards further east, we passed a large spring of salt water. It is known by the Mexicans who travel the road as La Salada. Passing this, we next encountered, for some three or four miles, mesas of dark chocolate-colored sandstone, through which we wound our way to a point where the roads forked. We took that which leads to the left hand. In less than half a mile, our road lying up the dry bed of a wet

<<<Page: 562>>>

weather creek, we came to a fine streamlet of fresh water. This was fringed by a beautiful grove of cotton wood. At the distance of four hundred yards, after we struck the water, we came to the Ruins or Aso. Here we are encamped for the night.
At this time, when so many surveys are making from different points
along the Mississippi toward the Pacific, with a view of ascertaining |
the best route for a railroad track, perhaps the suggestion may be ot value that the Pass of Abo offers advantages in ee respect which may not be found in any of the other passes thre ough these mountains. They are certainly of sufficient consideration to make it an object to have
this pass thoroughly explored before others shall be adopted. By directing the route from Anton Chico, on the Pecos river, immediately past thie Ruins of Ab6é, and thence through the canon by which the bridle-path lies that has already been spoken of, the open plain in the great valley of the Rio Grande can be reached without tunnelling a rod, and with no more difficulty as to the blasting of rocks and orading down of acclivities, than has been encountered on any of the ordinar v railroads in the United States. Let the road be directed across the plain so as to pass the Rio Grande at the mouth of the Puerco river, thence up the valley of that river to its west branch, and up the valley of that branch to Laguna; thence to Zuni, and from that point by the route which the indefatigable Whipple will without a doubt find, to the shores of the Pacific. ‘These suggestions may possibly be of practical
utility to those who are engaged in by far the greatest enterprise of
modern times.
The Ruins or Axo consist of a large church, and the vestiges. of many other buildings, which are now but little else than long heaps of
stones, with here and there portions of walls projecting above the sur-
rounding rubbish. There is yet standing enough of the church to give one a knowledge of the form and magnitude of the building when in its prime. The ground plan of this structure is in the form of a cross, its longitudinal direction being within ten degrees of the magnetic meridian. It was, perhaps, s situated exactly upon that meridian when the building was erected—the variation of the compass accounting for the present : difference. The great entrance was in the southern end. From thence'to the head of ee cross, where the altar was doubtless situated, it is one hundred and thirty Leva feet, inside. This, the nave of the church, is thirty-two feet in width. The short arm of the cross, or what in cathedrals is called the transept, is forty-one feet in length and twenty-three in breadth. The transept is sixty-six feet from the doorway. ‘These measurements were made with a tape-line in a very high wind. The round numbers in feet are, therefore, only given, withous noting the fractional parts of a foot.
The walls are of great thickness, and their height is, at this day, in over half the structure, all of fifty feet. The upper edge of these walls is cut into battlements. The church, as well as the neighboring buildings now in ruins about it, was built of a stratified, dark red sandstone, such as crops out along the creek and makes its appearance on the sides of the surrounding hills. The pieces of stone do not average over two and a half inches in thickness, and are not generally over one foot in length. Each piece is of the form it had when it was broken

<<<Page: 563>>>

from its native bed. We saw not a single dressed stone about the ruins. ‘These stones are laid in mortar made of the ordinary soil from the grourd immediately at hand. ‘The roof of the church was evidently supported by beams and covered with earth, as in the churches still occupied as places of worship throughout New Mexico. We saw no signs of an arch, nor any indication that those who planned and built the church at Abo were at all acquainted with architecture as a science. The walls over the doors and windows, so far as we could observe, had been supported by beams of wood. When these had become destroyed, those stones which were liberated above had dropped down; so that now, over each window there is a rude sort of Gothic arch, owing its form, not to design, but to accident. The wood-work of the church was evidently destroyed by being burnt. Wherever in the walls portions of beams still remain they are found charred and blackened by fire.
The form of the church alone, proves it to have been designed by Christians. Perhaps the workmen employed in its construction were Indians. We saw a distinct mark of an axe in one of the pieces of timber, which is imbedded in the east wall of the church some six feet from the ground. Saws also were doubtless used, but we discovered no marks of them. The stick of timber marked with the axe, and some beams that supported a landing at the head of the stairway which is made in the west wall, were the only pieces of wood about the ruins which were not burned so much over their surface as to obliterate all marks of tools.
The extent of an exterior wall, which, from the appearance of the present heaps of stones, once surrounded the church and the town, was about nine hundred and forty-two feet north and south, with an average width east and west, of say four hundred and fifiy feet. A large population must have occupied this town and its neighborhood, if one were to judge of the number of people by the size of the church built to accommodate them at their devotions.
We saw few, if any, unmistakeable signs that the ground had been cultivated in the vicinity of these ruins. Nor is there any good arable land, so far as we could observe, at any point nearer the Rio Grande; for uplands to be arable, in the climate of New Mexico, must be so situated as to be capable of irrigation. 'The stream of water at Abo is in a deep ravine. It is very inconsiderable in point of size, and loses itself in the sand in less than five hundred yards below the springs which feed it. The adjacent country is rolling and broken, and covered with pifion and cedar. The underlying rocks are secondary red sandstone. ‘The summits of the mesas and neighboring eminences are composed of grey limestone filled with marine fossils.
It was nearly night when we reached Abo. There was a keen freezing gale from “the northwest, and the whole appearance of the country was cheerless, wintry, and desolate. 'The tall ruins, standing there in solitude, had an aspect of sadness and gloom. They did vit seem to be the remains of an edifice dedicated to peaceful, religious purposes, a place for prayer, but rather as a monument of crime, and ruthlessness, and violence. ‘The cold wind when at its height appeared to roar and howl through the roofless pile like an angry demon. But

<<<Page: 564>>>

when at times it died away, a low sigh seemed to breathe along the crumbling battlements; and then it was that the noise of the distant brook rose upon the ear like a wail.
In the mystery that envelopes everything connected with these ruins— as to when, and why, and by whom, they were erected; and how, and when, and why, abandoned—there is much food for very interesting speculation. Until that mystery is penetrated so that all these questions can be answered without leaving a doubt, Abo belongs to the region of romance and fancy ; and it will be for the poet and the painter to restore to its original beauty this venerable temple, to rebuild its altars, and to exhibit again unto us its robed priests, its burning censers, its kneeling worshippers.
Sunpay, December 18, 1853.
[t took us until half past nine o’clock this morning to complete our examination of the ruins. We then marched over a rolling and, in places, broken country twelve miles 760 yards, and ina general direction of N. 12° E. For the whole of this distance the country is covered with groves of cedar and pifon trees. We then came to the Ruins of Quarrd. ‘These appear to be similar to those of Abo, whether regarded with a view to their evident antiquity, the skill exhibited in their construction, their preservation at the present time, or the material of which they are built. They too are situated upon a small stream of water that soon disappears in the earth.
The church at Quarraé is not so long by thirty feet as that at Abo. We found one room here, probably one of the cloisters attached to the church, which was in a good state of preservation. The beams that supported the roof were blackened by age. They were square and smooth, and supported under each end by shorter pieces of wood carved into regularly curved lines and scrolls, like similar supports which we had seen at the ends of beams in houses of the better class in Old Mexico. The earth upon the roof was sustained by small straight poles, well finished and laid in herring bone fashion upon these beams. In this room there is also a fire-place precisely like those found in the Mexican houses at the present day.
We had heard that in a stone panel inserted in the front end of the church at Quarra we should find emblazoned the fleur-de-lis, the ancient armorial bearings of France; and many therefore supposed that possibly this church had been erected by French Catholics who had come as missionaries across the country from the direction of New Orleans. But we saw no panel, no fleur-de-lis, and no stone of any kind, that bore marks of a chisel or of a hammer. Every piece in the church, in the cloisters, and in the debris of a neighboring village, was in the same rough form which it had when it was broken from the quarry.
The course from Quarra to the town of Manzana is, W. 35° N.; the distance is four miles 1,145 yards. We now find ourselves at a very great elevation. ‘The whole country is clad ina winter garb. The high Sierra de las Manzanas, and the towering pyramidal peaks called
Las Tetillas, gleam with a depth, it is said, of more than two feet of _
snow. The town of Manzana is situated at the base of the Sierra of that

<<<Page: 565>>>

name, and a small rivulet which, in running eastward to the open plains, soon sinks into the ground. Several dams are constructed along this rivulet, to collect and retain the water for purposes of irrigation. The town is built partly of logs set on end jacal fashion, with the interstices filled with mortar. and with roofs covered with earth, and partly of adobes. It sports a very dilapidated church, erected, it would seem, as a practical antithesis to the morals of the ibctants: for Manzana enjoys pre-eminently the wide-spread notoriety of being the resort of more murderers, robbers, common thieves, scoundrels, aoa vile abandoned women than can be found in any other town of the same size in New Mexico, which is saying a good deal about Manzana. Fortunately it contains but few inhabitants, not more than five or six hundred at most. It is not an old town. When the first settlers came here they found two groves of apple-trees, one just above the site now occupied by the town, and one just below. ‘Tradition says these trees were planted at the time Abo and Quarra were inhabited ; and yet, tradition has lost all trace of when that time was. It is said the Catholic church of New Mexico claims that they were planted by some priests, but admits that it has no records or authentic traditions about the ruins we have visited. Her claim, however, that some priests did this at some period or other, is good enough to authorize her to farm out these two orchards yearly, as we were informed, to the highest bidder. Two of the largest trees in the lower grove were found to be respectively eight feet and six feet in circumference. The largest was hollow —a mere shell of an inch or two in thickness. These trees have a venerable appearance. They have never been pruned, and have, therefore, grown gnarled and scraggy. Many of them are much smaller than those which were measured. ‘They have grown, doubtless, from” seeds which have fallen from the older ones. How long this process of ‘self-planting has been kept up, of course, no one can “know. Appletrees are not indigenous to New Mexico. Assuming it to be true, however, that the largest of these trees were planted at ‘the period referred to, then the ruins of Abo and Quarraé are more than two centuries old.
These two groves, or rather these two clumps of trees, are not standing regularly in rows and orchard-like; on the contrary, they are crowded together in the most irregular and natural manner.
The name of this town, and of the towering Sierra to the west of it, was adopted from finding these orchards ‘here ; Manzana being. the Spanish for apple, and Manzano the botanical name in that language for apple-tree. The name of the town is spelt indiscriminately in both ways throughout New Mexico.
Immediately about Manzana, and up the slope towards the high mountains west of the town, there is a pine forest many miles in extent, of most excellent timber for boards and for building purposes. Some twenty-five or thirty miles in an easterly direction there is a large salt lake, which has no outlet. This lake, supplies nearly the whole of the upper portion of the territory with salt. There are fine roads leading towards it from different directions. We were informed that the bottom of the lake is covered with a sheet of solid salt, which, in the dry season, is some three or four inches in thickness. When the rainy season sets in, filling the lake with fresh water drained from the sur

<<<Page: 566>>>

rounding prairies, this sheet of salt is said to dissolve down to half this thickness. We were not prepared to examine and visit this lake. It hes directly off our route, and has neither wood nor fresh water within many miles of it. The proper time to go to it would be during the rainy season and when there is grass.
We had procured orders from the vicar general of New Mexico for what corn we should require at Manzana—corn which had been paid in by the peasantry as tithes (diezmos) to the Catholic church. When we arrived there, we found that the corn belonging to the church was some six or eight miles off, at another village. called Torreon. So'we were forced to buy on credit what forage we required.
Here we learned that a small party of Texans had recently ae at the ruins of Gran Quivira in search of treasures. Whilst there they sent an Apache Indian in to Manzana for some articles they wanted. An American named Fry, a hunter, who lives at Manzana, went out to the ruims in company with two Mexicans to see these Texans; when he reached there he found them gone. He ascertained while he was gone that there was no water to be found at a ‘pond where our Mexican euide expected we should find it, as ithad dried up and that unless we found another small pond some six or eight miles from that, and which our guide knew nothing about, we should be obliged to go without any,
for he said there was probably no snow about. the ruins, as about.
Manzana, which we could melt. So Fry was employed to pilot us to this pond, as, failing to find it, we could cbtain no water nearer to Gran Quivira than at the little stream at Quarra, which isa distance of thirtyfive miles.
Monpay, December 19, 1853.
This morning we loaded the wagons with all the corn they would.
hold; but it did not amount to over two days’ feed, as our other supplies had to be taken along besides. In addition to this the dragoons put into their haversacks « enough for their horses for one night. Westarted about ten o’clock in the morning and retraced our steps toward Abé, to a point on the road known as arroyo de la Cienega—a dry bed of a wetweather stream. ‘This is nearly two miles below Quarra. Here we left the beaten track and took a course across the country in the direction of E. 40° 8. After travelling some six miles we struck an Indian trail which leads from Manzana to the country of the Mescalero Apaches. ‘This we followed in the same general direction to some holes in the rocky bed of another wet-weather stream called Las Aguachas. ‘These often contain water enough for a small party with animals, but we found them quite dry. Oné; only, had a small cake of ice, but no water. ‘They are 15 miles 1,022 yards from where we left the road. The country for this distance is quite barren. It has but little grass, but is covered with the tall branching cactus, and with scattered clumps of pifon and cedar-trees. On our right hand, for the last third of this distance, we have had a mesa covered with timber to its summit, which is called La Mesa de los Tumanes. It is improperly laid down upon the maps as a Sierra, or mountain range. Itruns from west to east, commencing a few miles south of Abé ‘and ending in a point on the plains Bt ee fitteen miles east of Las Aguachas, where we

<<<Page: 567>>>

tiie
eross over it by ascending gradually through an open prairie, which can easily be seen from the place where we left the road below Quarra.
The stone that crops out at Las Aguachas is a remarkably fine sandstone, suitable for grindstones and whetstones. The best is at the upper end of the ravine where the last pool of water would be found in the wet season.
When we reached this point it was nearly night. A cold piercing: wind was blowing, and it was yet some miles to the place where we hoped to find water. The wagons were some two or three miles behind; Major Carleton pushed on with the squadron, having Fry for a guide, to find the pond before dark; leaving Lieutenant Sturgis with twelve men at Las Aguachas, to wait for the wagons, and then follow with them on the trail. The Mexican guide stayed with the lieutenant, that he might track the squadron after night should set in. After travelling a little over five miles, the squadron arrived at the water. It was found in a deep hollow in the open prairie. The pond is not over eighty or one hundred yards in diameter, and might easily be missed after dark even by one acquainted with its locality. ‘The water is fresh and sweet. This pond is nearly a mile from timber. It les immediately off against the mouth of a pass through the Mesa de los Tumanes, and is known to the shepherds as La Laguna de la Puerta, the Lake of the Pass. Here we made holes in the ice, and, having watered all the horses, moved up into the pass, where we found wood in abundance, and very good protection from the cold wind. We soon had large fires burning, which served as a beacon to the lieutenant, who was behind bringing up the wagons. Shortly after dark he arrived. One of the wagons was immediately unloaded and sent with the waterkegs to the lake; the men taking lanterns to see to get the water through the ice. By ten o’clock at might our horses were groomed and fed, the men had had their suppers, and large piles of piton wood were blazing the whole length of the camp, giving it a cheerful and picturesque appearance.
This camp is twenty-five miles and 90 yards from Manzana.
Turspay, December 20, 1853.
As we knew it would be quite impossible to march to Gran Quivira and make the necessary observations there and back to the laguna in one day, it was decided to rest this forenoon, and to fill the kegs and India rubber water-tanks with water, and then to march to the ruins in the afternoon; to encamp near them to-night; to employ the forenoon of to-morrow in their examination; and then to return to-morrow evening to this place. In this way our animals would not be without wate more than a day and a half. We accordingly broke up our camp about half-past twelve o’clock. After we had filled our kegs and tanks at the laguna, we ascended a high ridge for a mile or more, when our guide pointed out to us what he said was the great church or cathedral, at Gran Quivira. It was in an air line all of thirteen miles distant, and yet we could see it distinctly with the naked eye. We could have seen it easily when five or six miles further off; had there been no obstruction to the view; a proof of the remarkable clearness of the atmosphere in this elevated region. It lies S. 5° E by the com-
Mis. Doc. 24 20

<<<Page: 568>>>

pass from Laguna de la Puerta, and served for a land-mark towards which to direct our march. Our course was a very straight one; for the country, which is an open rolling prairie, offered no impediment to our moving in a right line. The weather changed to be very cold during the afternoon; when near sunset a fierce wind arose from the direction of the snow-clad mountains in the west, and a cold vapor like a cloud came over the country, enveloping everything in a dense fog, and covering men and horses with a hoar frost. It was feared that the gale would change into one of those dreadful winter northers which are sometimes experienced in this country, and which are so fatal to men and animals when exposed to their fury on the open prairie. So the direction of the march was changed, that we might get the shelter of the timber on the slope of the Mesa de los Tumanes, which stretched along our right at a distance of not more than three or four miles. This we struck very opportunely, just as night was setting in. We soon had large fires blazing, and all our horses well blanketed and picketed on the leeward side of them, to get the benefit of the heated air and of the eddy in the wind from the long line of tents. In this way they were kept from suffering, although the night was uncom-monly cold and inclement.
So stillanother day has passed away, andthe ruins are not yet reached. Quivira would seem always to have been a difficult place to arrive at. We find in Castaneda’s history of the expedition into this country made by Francisco Vasques de Coronado, in 1540,’41, and ’42, that that general was forty-eight days in hunting for it, starting from some point between the Rio Grande and the Gila river. All the way from Albu-querque we have asked the people of the country where the ruins were situated? How they looked? Who built them? &c., &c. To all these questions we could seldom get a more definite reply than Quien sabe? It seemed as if the genii who, in the Eastern tale atleast, are said to guard the depositories of great treasures, were determined to make the existence of such a place as Gran Quivira as much of a problem to us as to the Mexicans themselves. We had seen, before the fog set in, an edifice in the distance, which had seemed to move away as we approached it, like the weird lakes of water in a mirage. But to-morrow, at all events, will decide for us whether that edifice be
a Fata Morgana or not.
Wepnespay, December 21, 1853.
At daybreak this morning every tree and spire of grass, and even the blankets upon our horses, were covered with ice. The trees seemed as if every twig was made of frosted silver. The wind had
one down, and overhead the sky was clear; but a heavy bank of fog extended all along the east, obstructing our view of the Sierra de las Gallinas, which bounds the horizon in that direction. It was long ere the approaching sun waded up through so dense a veil.
Soon after we left camp we again saw the cathedral of Gran Quivira; but in surmounting one eminence after another as we moved along over a rolling country, the ruins, phantom like, seemed to recede before us the same as yesterday. When we first saw them this morning they appeared to be about a mile and a half distant, when

<<<Page: 569>>>

in reality they were more than five miles off. The last three of these five miles’ travel was over nothing but a succession of sand _ hills covered with a tall coarse grass, with two or three heads on each stalk, which seemed to be peculiar to this place. ‘The horses sank more than fetlock-deep into the soft yielding sand; while it was with great difficulty that the mules, at a snail’s pace, drew the wagons along.
At eleven o’clock in the forenoon we came to the last high ridge on the point of which the ruins are situated. This ridge is composed of dark blue compact limestone, which crops out in several places along its slopes. The ascent is quite abrupt on every hand, except towards the east; the ridge is prolonged in that direction for several miles. We all felt rejoiced that finally we had reached a place about which so much had been written, and yet so little had really been known.
Whatever may have been the grandeur and magnificence of that place in ages long past, its present appearance and condition are easily described.
We found the ruins of Gran Quivira to consist of the remains of a large church, or cathedral, with a monastery attached to it; a smaller church or chapel; and the ruins of a town extending nine hundred feet in a direction east and west, and three hundred feet north and south. All these buildings had been constructed of the dark blue limestone which is found in the vicinity.
The cathedral, which we had seen from Laguna de la Puerta, is one hundred and forty feet long outside, with the walls nearly six feet in thickness. It stands longitudinally W. 15° S., with the great entrance in the eastern end. The altar was in the western end. Like the churches at Abo and Quarra, it is constructed in the form of a cross. From the doorway at the foot of the cross to the transept, it is eightyfour feet seven inches; across the transept it is twenty-one feet six inches ; and from thence to the head of the cross it is twenty-two feet seven inches ; making the total length, inside, one hundred and twentyeight feet eight inches. The width of the nave is twenty-seven feet ; the length, inside of the short arm of the cross, is thirty-six feet. A gallery extended along the body of the cathedral for the first twentyfour feet. Some of the beams which sustained it, and the remains of two of the pillars that stood along under the end of it which was nearest to the altar, are still here; the beams in a tolerably good state of preservation—the pillars very much decayed; they are of pine wood, and
are very elaborately carved. There is also what, perhaps, might be
termed an entablature supporting each side of the gallery, and deeply embedded in the main wall of the church; this is twenty-four feet long by, say, eighteen inches or two feet in width; it is carved very beautifully, indeed, and exhibits not only great skill in the use of various kinds of tools, but exquisite taste on the part of the workmen in the construction of the figures. These beams and entablatures would be an ornament to any edifice even at the present day. We have cut one of the beams into three parts, to take back with us. The entablatures are so deeply set in the walls that we are unable to procure a piece of them. The beams are square, and are carved on three sides; the
_ floor of the gallery rested on the fourth side.
The stone of which the cathedral was built was not hewn, nor even

<<<Page: 570>>>

roughly dressed; but the smoothest side of each piece was laid to the surface with great care. We saw no one piece in all the ruins which was over a foot in length. The mortar was made from the ordinary soil found upon the spot; it affords but a poor cement to resist the action of the elements and the ordinary ravages of time.
The walls of the cathedral are now about thirty feet in height. It was estimated, from the great quantity of stones which have fallen down, forming a sort of talus both within the walls and outside of them, that, originally, this building was all of fifty feet in height. There is a small room to the right as you enter the cathedral, and another room, which is very large, and which communicates with the main body of the building by a door at the left of the transept. ‘There was also communication between this large room and the monastery, or system of cloisters, which are attached to the cathedral. The chapel is one hundred and thirty feet from the cathedral. This building is one hundred and eighteen feet long, outside, and thirty-two in width; its walls are three feet eight inches in thickness ; it is apparently in a better state of preservation than the cathedral, but yet none of the former wood-work remains in it.
A short distance from the chapel there is an enclosure, which we supposed was the ancient cemetery.
The remains of the town are but heaps of stones, with here and there some evidences of narrow streets running nearly east and west, and north and south. ‘Through these stones pieces of beams and sticks. of wood are seen to project; these indicate, by moss and otherwise, that they are of very great antiquity; they are bleached white by the weather, and are deeply gnawed by the tooth of time.
We saw some deep pits, which were circular,’ and walled around like wells; we believed them to be the remains of cisterns—they were not deep enough for wells; some have concluded that they were estufas. 'Two hundred and ninety feet north of the cathedral there are evident traces of an estanque; this, as well as the cisterns, was. probably made to collect the rain-water which ran from the different buildings.
Toward the east we saw a well defined road, which kept the ridge for a few hundred yards, and then turned off toward the southeast, where all further vestiges of it are lost in the sand. Where it is the most plainly marked along the summit of the ridge some large cedar trees are growing directly in the middle of it; these trees look to be very old indeed.
In every direction about the ruins we found great quantities of broken — pottery, many specimens of which we have collected to take to Albu—
querque. Some of it is handsomely marked and well glazed. We also found several stones which were evidently once used as matates. These matates are in use to this day, to rub boiled corn upon until it becomes a kind of dough, suitable to be kneaded into cakes called tortillas. We have selected two, which we shall take home with us.
These prove to us that the ancient inhabitants of Gran Quivira knew
the use of corn as an article of food. There is no sign that the ground in the vicinity has ever been cultivated, and no mark whatever of irrigating ditches. Indeed, an acequia,
{ 4)

<<<Page: 571>>>

or open aqueduct, could not, it is believed, have brought water to the Gran Quivira, for the point occupied by the town appears to be considerably higher than the surrounding country.
We were informed by men at Manzana who had been pastores In their youth, and had herded sheep in this region of country, that there is a fine bold spring of water at the base of ‘the Sierra de las Gallinas, about fifteen miles from the ruins, and that they had heard that water once ran in an aqueduct from that spring to the Gran Quivira. This could hardly have been possible, unless the aqueduct was a closed pipe; because, from appearances, the country intervening between those two points is considerably lower than either of them.
We saw no indications that there had ever been such an aqueduct, nor did we see any sign that wells had been digged in the neighborhood. From every feature of the country, both within and without the surrounding sand-hills, we could but be lost in conjecture as to the method adopted by the inhabitants to obtain even water to drink, let alone for purposes of irrigation, unless they were supplied by some spring or stream that has “long since disappeared. ‘The nearest point where water can always be obtained now, is the spring which the pastores spoke of as being at the base of the Sierra de las Gallinas, fifteen miles away. The Laguna de la Puerta is 14 miles 773 yards from Gran Quivira, in nearly a direct line; but this is said to become entirely dry in seasons of great drought.
As at Abo and @ienae we were surprised at not finding, in the cathedral and chapel, some of the doorways and windows surmounted by an arch. Had they been so, originally, these buildings would be in a better state of preservation. The beams across windows and doors, in giving way to the weight above as they became decayed, made a fair beginning towards letting down the whole superstructure.
Mr. Gregg, in speaking on the ancient ruins of New Mexico, says: «The most remarkable of these are La Gran Quivira. This appears to have been a considerable city, larger and richer by far than the
capital of New Mexico has ever been. “Many walls, particularly those
of churches, still stand erect amid the desolation that surrounds them, as if their sacredness had been a shield against which time dealt his blows in vain. The style of architecture is altogether superior to any thing at present to be found in New Mexico. What i is more extraordinary still is, that there is no water within less than some ten miles ot the ruins; yet we find several stone cisterns, and remains of aqueducts, eight or ten m‘les in length, leading from the neighboring mountains, from whence water was no doubt conveyed. And as there seem to be no indications whatever of the inhabitants having ever been engaged in agricultural pursuits, what could have induced the rearing of a city in such an arid woodless plain as this, except the proximity of some valuable mine, it is difficult to imagine. From the peculiar character of the place, and the remains of cisterns still existing, the object of pursuit, in this case, would seem to have been a nlacer—a name applied to mines of gold-dust intermingled with the earth. Other mines have, no doubt, been worked in the adjacent mountains, as many spacious pits are found, such as are usually dug in ae of ores of silver; and
it is stated that in several places heaps of scoriz are found.

<<<Page: 572>>>

‘‘By some persons these ruins have been supposed to be the remains of an ancient pueblo, or aboriginal city. This is not probable; for, though the relics of aboriginal temples might possibly be mistaken for those. of Catholic cumacee:, yet it is not presumed that the Spanish coat of arms would be found sculptured and painted upon their fagades, as: is the case in more than one instance. The most rational accounts represent this to have been a wealthy Spanish city, before the general massacre of 1680, in which calamity the inhabitants perished,—all except one, as the story goes,—and that their immense treasures were buried in the ruins. Some credulous adventurers have lately visited the spot in search of these long-lost coffers, but as yet (1845) none have been found.”
There is no indication that the escutcheon of Spain was ever sculptured or painted on any fagade about the ruins; and the facts, as regards the style of architecture and the remains a an aqueduct, do not, as is shown by this jnERe agree with his statement. Mr. Gregg must have described the appearance of this place from what he heard about it; for on all those subjects of which he wrote from personal observation he is most excellent authority.
Pedro de Castaneda accompanied Francisco Vasquez de Coronada in his great expedition to the north in search of gold. He wrote a history of the campaign. General Vz asquez de Coronada arrived in a country which was called Quivira, in the month of June, 1542. Ifthe present ruins of Gran Quiviraare in a region identical with the Quivira then visited, it may be of interest to state what Castaneda says of it and of its inhabitants:
“Up to that point the whole country is only one plain; at Quivira, mountains begin to be perceived. From what was seen, it appears to be a well peopled country. The plants and fruits greatly resemble those of Spain: plums, grapes, nuts, mulberries, rye, grass, oats, pennyroyal, origanum, and flax, which the natives do not ‘culliy ate, because they do not understand the use of it. Their manners and customs are the same as those of the Teyas; and the villages resemble those of New Spain. The houses are round, and have no walls; the stories are like lofts; the roofs are of straw. The inhabitants sleep under the roofs; and there they keep what they possess.”
The manners and customs of the Teyas, to which he likens those of
the people of Quivira, are described as follows:
“These natives are called Querechos and Teyas. They live under tents of buffalo skins tanned, and subsist by the chase of these animals. These nomadic Indians are braver than those of the villages; they are taller, and more inured to war. They have great troops of dogs, which carry their baggage; they secure it on the backs of these animals by means of a girth : and a little pack-saddle. When the load becomes deranged, the dogs begin to bark to warn their master to adjust it. These Indians live on raw meat, and drink blood; but they do not eat human flesh. Far from being evil, they are very gentle, and very faithful in their friendships. They can make themselves very well understood by signs. They cut meat in very thin slices, and dry it inthe sun; they ae it afterwards to a powder, to preserve it. A single handful thrown into a pot answers for a meal, for it swells greatly.

<<<Page: 573>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. Jet
They prepare it with the fat which they preserve when they kill a butfalo. They carry around the neck a great intestine filled with blood, which they drink when thirsty. Ir they open a buffalo, they squeeze the masticated grass which is found in the stomach, and drink the juice which runs out; they say that this is the whole substance of the belly. They open a buffalo at the back, and divide it at the joints, by means of a piece of pebble attached to the end of a stick, with as much facility as if they used a knife of the best steel.”
The present ruins are not the remains of the round houses with roots of straw, which Castafieda describes as the dwellings of the inhabitants of Quivira, three hundred and twelve years ago; and if they had had in those days instruments to shape and carve these beautiful beams and pillars, and entablatures, they would hardly have used pebbles at the ends of sticks in cutting up the buffaloes which they had killed. Besides, the matates we have found are almost positive proof that the people who once resided here ate as food tortillas made of corn; while, from Castafieda’s account, one is obliged to believe that the inhabitants of the country which he calls Quivira lived entirely upon the flesh of the buffalo, as the Comanches do at the present day.
Castafieda says likewise that: ‘*The Indians of the country had neither gold or silver, and were not acquainted with the precious metals. ‘The Cacique wore on his breast a plate of copper, which he held in the greatest esteem.”
Many have supposed that the ancient Aztecs built the edifices at Gran Quivira, Abo and Quarra, during their migration from Aztlan toward Anahuac ; and that the ruins now found in the Navajo country, and the Casas Grandes which are still to be seen along the Gila river, were built by the same people and at about the same period of time. Captain Johnson, of the first dragoons, visited the ruins of the Gila river in November, 1846 ; from his description of one of the Casa Grande, the largest and best of any he saw, we can discover no point of resemblance between it and these now before us. Captain Johnson says: ‘ After marching six miles, still passing plains which had once been occupied, we saw to our left the Casa de Montezuma. I rode to it, and found the remains of the walls of four buildings, and the piles of earth showing where many others had been. One of the buildings is still quite complete, as aruin. The others had all crumbled but a few pieces of low, broken wall. The large Casa was fifty feet by forty, and had been four stories high; but the floors and roof had long since been burnt out. The charred ends of the cedar joists were stillin the wall. I examimed them, and found that they had not been cut with a steel instrument. The joists were round sticks, There were four entrances, north, south, east, and west; the doors are about four feet by two. The rooms had the same arrangement on each story. There was no sign of a fireplace in the building, The lower story was filled with rubbish; and above, it was open to the sky. The walls were four feet thick at the bottom, and had a curved inclination inwards to the top. The house was built of a sort of white earth with pebbles, probably containing lime, which abounded on the ground adjacent; and the surface still remained firm, although it was evident they (the walls) had been exposed to great heat from the fire. Some of the rooms did not open to all the rest, but

<<<Page: 574>>>

Bi NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
had a hole a foot in diameter to look through. In other places were smaller holes.”” Clavigero, the historian, believes that this great movement of the Aztecs from the north towards the south commenced about the year of our Lord 1160, and that Casas Grandes were built by them at various halts which they made in their circuitous journey towards the valley of Mexico. It has been shown that in 1542 there were no buildings of the size and character of the Casas Grandes, or such as are found here now, in all the country called Quivira, which Castaneda visited and described. So one must conclude that, so far as the Aztecs are concerned, whatever they may have had to do with the building of the edifices either in the Navajo country, or on the Gila, or those found 250 miles northwest of Chihuahua, they never planned or constructed those at Gran Quivira.
History represents that Vasquez de Coronada, finding no gold during his great expedition, returned to Mexico, where he fell into disgrace and died in obscurity.
The Spaniards did not return to colonize the province of New Mexico until the year 1581; and the country could not be considered as conquered until 1595. For eighty-five years after this the colony seems to have prospered and to have grown in power. ‘Towns and villages were built, and valuable mines of gold and silver were found and worked with success. The Catholic clergy were aided in their efforts to convert the Indians to christianity by the government, at whose expense large churches were erected in different parts of the province of New Mexico, corresponding with the missions, which were built for the same
purpose and at about the same period in the other provinces of Texas-
and California. It was during this time, doubtless, that the large edifices at Abo, Quarra, and Gran Quivira were erected. It is more than probable that valuable mines of the precious metals were found in their vicinity, and worked under the direction of the Spaniards by the Indians who had been subjugated; for there is every reason to believe that the mountains east of the Rio Grande are at this day rich in gold and silver. :
It appears that during these eighty-five years the Spaniards treated the Indians with the most cruel oppression, until finally the latter revolted against them. The night of the 13th of August, 1680, was the time set throughout all New Mexico, when the Indians should rise and make an indiscriminate massacre of all the Spaniards in the country. This plot was made known to Don Antonio de Otermin, then the governor and military commandant of the province, by two Indian chiefs. Every effort was made for defence and to avert the coming storm, but without success. The Indians rose as agreed upon: after various conflicts, they destroyed great numbers of the inhabitants ; and, finally, by the latter end of September of that year, succeeded in driving all the rest, with Governor Otermin included, to El Paso del Norte, entirely beyond the confines of the territory.
We have been informed that there is now a tradition amongst the Indians, that as soon as their forefathers had become successful in expelling the Spaniards, they filled up and concealed all traces of the mines where they had toiled and suftered for so many years; declaring

<<<Page: 575>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ake
the penalty to be torture and death to any one who should again make known their locality.
Old Mr. Chavis, who overtook us soon after our arrival at Gran Quivira, informed Major Carleton that he had been told, when in his youth, by very old people, that a tribe of Indians once lived here called the Pueblos of Quivira; that the Spanish priests came and lived amongst them, in peace and security, for twenty years; that during this period these large churches were erected; and that at the time of the great massacre there were seventy priests and monks residing here—all of whom were butchered excepting two, who contrived to make their escape; that, previous to their massacre, the priests had had intimation of the approaching danger, and had not only buried the immense treasures which had been collected, but had concealed likewise the bells of the churches; that many years afterwards the people of Quivira died off until but few remained; that one of these, a descendant of the chief, knew where the treasures were buried; that the remnant of the tribe afterwards emigrated and joined other Pueblos below El Paso; and that many years ago an old man, one of the last of the tribe, had told in what direction from the church these great treasures had been concealed. So tar as the building of the churches and the massacre of the monks and priests are concerned in this account, as well as the final decrease and removal of the people who once lived here, there is no doubt but the story told by Mr. Chavis is, in the main, correct. ‘The account of the depositories of the bells and the treasure is said to have been written down as given from the lips of the last cacique of Quivira, who, at the time he made the disclosure, was living away below Mesilla, on the Mexican side of the river. A copy of this paper has been secured, and is here inserted in the original language, for the benefit of those who may take an interest in such matters.
‘En el Semetario de la Parroquia grande en el centro del costado derecho segun la figura numero uno esta una entrafia escarbando estan dos campanas tomando la linea de la abertura que dejan las dos campanas se bera al oriente para el callejon que deja la eglesia vieja y el pueblo una lomita a distancia de tres cientas varas mas 0 menos que no hay otra que forme linea con las campanas debajo de dicha loma hai un sotano de diez 0 mas varas retacado de piedras el cual tiene el gran tesoro.
‘‘Nombrado por Carlos quinto de la Gran Quivira.’’*
The grammar of this document is preserved, as in the original. There can be no doubt but the belief that a large amount of gold and silver has been buried here, has for a great number of years been seriously entertained. We find in the cathedral and in the chapel, in every room in the monastery, in every mound of stones in the ,neighborhood, and in every direction about the ruins, large holes dug, in many places to the depth of ten feet, by those who have come from
‘*< «In the cemetery of the great parish church, in the centre of the right side, according to figure number one, there is a pit, and by digging will be found two bells. By taking the line of the opening left by the two bells, there will be seen to the east, along the lane left by the old church and the town, a hill, at the distance of three hundred yards, more or less, which forms precisely a line with the bells. At the foot of said hill isa cellar of ten yards or more, covered with stones, which contains the great treasure. ;
‘*Mentioned by Charles Fifth of Gran Quivira.”’

<<<Page: 576>>>

time to time to seek for these hidden treasures. Some of these holes look as if they were made more than a century ago, while others appear to be quite recent. Even the ashes of the dead have not been left undisturbed during these explorations. Near the east end of the chapel we saw where the people who had been digging had thrown up a great many human bones, which now lie scattered about. From these we have selected six skulls to send to some one who is skilled in the science of craniology, that he may determine, if possible, to what race of people they once belonged. These skulls are thought to be unusually large.
The ruins of Gran Quivira have hitherto occupied the same position with respect to the boundless prairies which the fabulous island of Atlantis did to the ocean in days of antiquity. No one seemed to know exactly where this city was situated. But the uncertainty of its locality seemed to make no difference in regard to the interest that was felt concerning it; for people would believe in its existence, and receive great pleasure in listening to traditions about its marvellous beauty and magnificence, even when to a reasonable mind those traditions and accounts ran counter to probability.
Men of genius and distinction have taken great pains in following up mazes in the labyrinth of reports concerning it, whether oral or written, and in their glowing descriptions it has appeared almost like a city of enchantment. ‘To them it had paved streets, and fluted columns, and ornate friezes, and sculptured fagades ; it had the remains of aqueducts and fountains; it had long colonnades, and even barbaric statuary; it had the groined arch, the shouldering buttress, the quaint gargoyle, and everything in outline and in detail that could betoken skill, and taste, and opulence. It was a city, they said, whose inhabitants departed from it so long back in the gloom and mists of the past as to leave in utter obscurity all other records concerning them.
The sphynx, they said, about whose bosom the sands from the Lybian desert had drifted for unknown centuries, was no more of an enigma than this was. Here were palaces and temples, and deserted courts, and long-echoing corridors, and grass-grown streets, and reigning over all a silence so profound as almost to be heard.
Historical societies had taken up these descriptions, and filed them away among their transactions as documents of deep interest. Venerable and learned ethnologists searched in dusty manuscripts and blackletter volumes of antiquity for some authentic account of that race of men who reared and then abandoned such a city. But to this moment their researches have proved fruitless, and the story they seek is still recorded in an unsealed book.
Our business is not that which will permit us to clothe with imaginary grandeur these vestiges of a people whose name has been erased from the book of nations, nor that which will allow us time to indulge in abstruse speculations as to their race or their language. These things belong to the poet and philosopher. With all those pleasant reveries and romantic fancies which these ruins away here on a desert are so wonderfully calculated to awaken we can have nothing to do. We came here to note realities; and now the facts we have seen, the theories we have read which were of value, the traditions we have

<<<Page: 577>>>

heard deserving of attention, and the conclusions to which we have come concerning this interesting place, are all written down. All else save the things we saw admits of doubt, and is obscured by so dark a cloud of uncertainty as to leave much ground for new theories, and for, perhaps, infinitely more valuable conclusions.
We found that the Mescalero Apaches, with whom we had some business of interest, had all gone far towards the south. Our guide, who
was a captive amongst them for eight months, gave us some information
as to their strength in warriors, which is worthy of record. He says they live in small bands, or families, in order to distribute themselves over a greater extent of country for purposes of hunting. When they are engaged in war, or upon any other enterprise of importance, these bands become united. When separated, they are each controlled by a sub-chief; when acting in concert, they choose a head-man to direct affairs for the time being. The following list shows the name of each of these sub-chiefs and the strength of his band in fighting men :
Santos has forty men ;
Josecito has nine men;
Barranca has nineteen men ;
Negrito has twenty men ;
Jose Largo has fifteen men ;
La Pluma has thirteen men ;
_ Santana has nineteen men.
Two chiefs who live in the Sacramento mountains, whose names are unknown, have fifty men.
Add to these the ten sub-chiefs, and we have in this tribe two hundred and eight men capable of bearing arms.
They are represented as having many good rifles, and as being most excellent shots. Living in the neighbor rhood of the great thorougfare that leads from Texas to California, and having mountain fictieeeea in which to take refuge when pursued, they are able, and very willing, to do a great deal of mischief.
From Gran Quivira, the northern point of the Sierra Blanca bears by the compass 8. 30° E., and is distant about fitty miles.
The highest point of the Sierra de las Gallinas bears E. 5° N., and is distant about fifteen miles.
The peaks known as Las Tetillas bear N. 36° W., and are distant about fifty-five miles.
We left the ruins about three o’clock in the afternoon, and retraced our steps to the Laguna de la Puerta, where we arrived an hour after
dark.
Tuurspay, December 22, 1853.
To-day we returned to Manzana, over the same track we had made to the Laguna. Here we encountered a snow-storm. This town is so elevated that hardly a cloud passes the mountains that does not shower upon it either rain, snow, or hail. From what we have observed during our second visit to this place, this Botany Bay of New Mexico, we eee concluded that our former estimate of the character of the inhabitants was premature and ill-jadged; we now believe that there

<<<Page: 578>>>

is not one single redeeming trait of disposition or habits to be found within its borders.
Fripay, December 23, 1853.
Our course to-day was about N. 10° W., and lay along the eastern slopes of the Sierra de la Manzana. We faced a snow-storm for nearly the whole forenoon, and were therefore unable to observe much about the features of the country. Six miles 729 yards from Manzana we passed a small mountain stream running towards the east—a mere brook, that is soon lost in the ground. On this there is a little village called Torreon. ‘Two miles 1,181 yards further north we passed another similar brook, and another small town called Tagique. From this last place, over a rolling, broken, and well timbered country, we marched to a small hamlet called Chilili. This town, like Torreon and Tagique, is situated upon a mere rivulet, running from the mountains to the open plains towards the east. Here we encamped in the snow, and suffered much during the whole night from a cold wind frem the north. .
SaturpDAy, December 24, 1853.
This morning, before we left camp, an old Mexican brought us some ore, which he said is to be found in great abundance near the Tetilla Peaks, but that it is now covered so deeply in the snow as to be difficult to be procured. We believe the specimen he gave us contains silver. When the snow has melted, it will be worth the trouble, perhaps, to explore these mountains thoroughly, with a view to the discovery of precious metals.
After travelling north for about two miles this morning, we turned off toward the west, by a road that leads to Albuquerque by the Cation dei Infierno. As we ascended the eastern slope of the mountain, we passed through extensive groves of large pine-trees, suitable for boards and other building purposes. The snow was a foot in depth, and the air dry and cold, as in mid-winter in the extreme north. ‘The Cation del Infierno is 10 miles 562 yards in length. It is very circuitous. The mountains rise abruptly thousands of feet above it on either hand. This makes it a pass of great ruggedness, as well as of a wild and picturesque beauty. Half-way down through it we came to a fine spring of water. The rocks are the same stratified, fossiliferous limestone, which we saw at Los Puertos de Ab6é. From the mouth of the Canon del Infierno to Albuquerque, the road descends through an open prairie, entirely destitute of water for the whole distance, which is 20 miles 492 yards.
We arrived at Albuquerque at 8 o’clock in the evening, having marched to-day 36 miles 317 yards.
| | | |

<<<Page: 579>>>

A period of six weeks speut on the coast of New Jersey, principally at Beesley’s point, and Long Island, New York, furnished an opportunity of studying the habits and distribution of the principal species of fishes that are found on that portion of our shores during the summer.
Although many others, doubtless, are to be found in the same region, yet none have been introduced except those which were actually caught and carefully exammed. A considerable number of the species whose habits and peculiarities are given at some length, have hitherto had nothing placed on record concerning them; and it is hoped that the present article may be found to contain some interesting information, given here for the first time, in addition to its character as a contribution to our knowledge of the geographical distribution of species.
The difference of the names applied to the same species of fish at various points of our coast, even when these happen to be connected very closely, both commercially and geographically, must strike every one with astonishment.
It is scarcely too much to say that no one species of fish bears the same vernacular appellation from Maine to Maryland, still less to Florida or the coast of Texas. ‘This is probably owing to the fact that our shores have been originally settled by various nations from widely remote parts of Europe, each introducing its peculiar nomenclature, or deriving names from the equally isolated aboriginal tribes with their various languages. Thus the names of blue fish, white fish, perch, black fish, bass, king-fish, porgee, hake, tailor, whiting, horse mackerel, shad, smelt, dog-fish, &c., may apply equally to two or more very different species. Among the synonyms of the species will be found the vernacular equivalents in the regions visited, together with some from other localities. It will be sufficiently evident, therefore, that before any species referred to under a trivial name can be identified, the origin of the fish or that of the writer must be ascertained.
Although most of the facts recorded in the following paper have reference to Great Egg harbor, New Jersey, during a period extending from the middle of July to the end of August, it has been thought not amiss to incorporate the results of a visit to Brooklyn, Riverhead, and Greenport, Long Island, as well as to some points on the Hudson river, in September. Some valuable information was thus obtained tending to illustrate more fully the natural history and distribution of the species found on the New Jersey coast.
And here I take occasion to render an acknowledgement for much kind assistance and important information derived from various gentlemen at the different points of operation. Among these I will particularly mention Messrs. Samuel and Charles Ashmead, at Beesley’s point, who devoted all their time to the furtherance of my objects

<<<Page: 580>>>

in this exploration. I may also mention Messrs John Stites, Willis Godfrey, Washington Blackman, John Johnson, in fact, most of the residents of Beesley’s point. Much benefit was derived at Greenport, Long Island, from the companionship of Mr. E. D. Willard, of the National Hotel, Washington ; while to Mr. J. Carson Brevoort, of Bedford, Long Island, well known as the first ichthyologist in New York, and surpassed by no one in his knowledge of our marine species, I am under the greatest obligations. ‘Through the kindness of Mr. John G. Bell, of New York, and Smith Herring, of Piermont, I was enabled to make a complete collection of the fishes of the upper Hackensack and Sparkall.
It must be understood that the present article does not aim at giving a complete account of the species referred to. Such descriptions of color as have been given were in every case taken from the fresh and living fish, the object being to place on record features not usually preserved in alcoholic specimens. Of the species whose colors were known not to fade or alter in spirits no notes of their peculiarities in this respect were taken, while the tints of others were so evanescent as to have escaped or altered before a description could be noted down.
Very little respecting the habits or history of the species has been added from other authors, nor does the nomenclature profess to be at all final as to critical accuracy. ‘To have accomplished this latter object, would have required more time than is at present at my disposal, involving, as it would, the entire revision of American ichthyology generally. ‘lhe names given are principally those of De Kay in his history of the fishes of New York, and can thus be readily identified.
As will be seen in the course of the article, several of the species collected appear new to science; to these I have been obliged to give names for the sake of proper reference, without at the same time furnishing a complete scientific description. This will, however, be supplied soon through another medium—want of time preventing its being done in season for the present Smithsonian Report. For important assistance in determining the species | am under many obligations to Mr. Girard.
The coast of New Jersey is well known to consist, for most of its extent, of a low beach with sand-hills, separated from the mainland by a wide strip of low meadows filled with small ponds, and intersected by creeks and thoroughfares, which traverse it in every direction. There is no rock or stone of any description, and, consequently, there is a deficiency in the plants and animals which frequent rocky localities. At Beesley’s point there is scarcely a pebble of the smallest size to be seen.
The meadows are densely coated with grass, and are covered with water only during unusually high tides.
Beesley’s point is situated at the mouth of Ege Harbor river, where it empties into Great Egg Harbor bay. The water is, of course, salt at this point, though somewhat diluted by the volume of fresh water brought down by the river.
The distance from the mouth of the river, or head of the bay, to the inlet on the beach, is about two or three miles; the extreme width about the same, although extending into thoroughfares, through which

<<<Page: 581>>>

a boat may be taken to Absecom on the one side, and to Cape May on other, without going outside of the beach. The mouth of the river is occupied by very extensive beds of oysters, which are celebrated for their excellent flavor. The bottom of the bay is in some part hard and shelly, in others sandy, or again, consists of a soft mud; the latter condition prevails near the shore, or wherever the current is of little strength.
There are numerous mud-flats or sand-bars in the bay, some of them bare at low tide, or nearly so, and occupied by various species of waterfowl. These flats, continuing to increase in height, and at length acquire a growth of grass which fixes still more the accumulating mud and sand, so that in time what was formerly a bar becomes an island elevated some feet above the water.
This transition is, in fact, so rapid, that many of the inhabitants now living have known islands several acres in extent to form within their own recollection.
The greater part of the bottom of the bay and of the thoroughfares,
_ generally, is a soft mud, rich in organic matter, and covered with a pro-
F t 4
1 ‘|
fuse growth of Zostera marina and alge of various species. Mr. Samuel Ashmead, who has been engaged for some years in studying the sea-weeds of our coast, has found a much greater variety of species at Beesley’s point than Professor Harvey allots to the New Jersey coast. The water being generally shallow except in the channels, the sub-mariné vegetation can be seen to great advantage, while sailing over the surface. The water becomes very warm during the summer, and supplies all the conditions necessary for the development of young fishes of many species. The young of all the large fish of the bay may thus be found in greater or less numbers along or near the shore.
The ponds in the meadows, like the waters of the bay itself, are generally muddy at the bottom, sometimes bare of vegetation, and sometimes covered with a thick growth. The fishes found in these
«6 . . co) . ~~ . . . ponds consist almost entirely of cyprinodonts of various species, with
‘occasional specimens of Atherina, small mullet, or sticklebacks. The
creeks likewise contain cyprinodonts, generally of different species from those of the ponds, with young fish of various kinds. Crabs and eels are found everywhere.
The line of beach is two or three miles from the mainland, and consists of a clear white sand raised into hills ten to thirty feet high, a few hundred feet from the water’s edge. It is in the inlets at the ends of these beaches that the greatest variety of fish is to be found, particularly in the small indentations, protected from the roughness of the waves, and the bottom of which is covered with Ceramium or sea-cabbage.
Corson’s inlet, frequently mentioned in the following pages, is situated at the southern end of Peck’s beach, which begins directly opposite Beesley’s point at the entrance to the harbor, and extends to this inlet over a distance of about five miles.
The only fresh water near Beesley’s point is Cedar Swamp creek. This stream, rising in a cedar swamp, and flowing with a very sluggish current, (the water of a chocolate color,) is cut off from the tide

<<<Page: 582>>>

by adam at Littleworth, three miles from the point. The bottom is very muddy. But little variety of fresh-water fish is to be found in this stream. Several species of Esox, two Leuciscus, one eel, three Pomotis, one each of Aphredoderus, Labrax, Etheostoma, and Melanura, and several cyprinodonts. The species are nearly all different from those found in the interior of Pennsylvania on the same latitude. Another Cedar Swamp creek occurs on the opposite side of Egg Harbor river, in Atlantic county. In many respects it differs from that first mentioned in being of more rapid current, and the bottom at some distance from the tide-water dam consisting of sand or small pebbles. The water too in small quantity is clear, though where of considerable
| ! | ) |
depth it appears almost black. Fewer species of fish were found —
here than in the other; the only additional one being the Catastomus tuberculatus.
Ludley’s Run is a small run crossing the road to Cape May, about eight miles from Beesley’s point; fresh at low tide but flooded at high water. The only fish found in it consisted of two cyprinodonts, and the Gasterosteus quadracus.
Norr.—For the sake of avoiding a constant repetition, the initials only of the names of the fins are used. Thus, D. indicates the dorsal fin; C., the caudal; A., the anal; V., the ventral; and P., the pectoral.

<<<Page: 583>>>

‘ THE SMITHSOMIAN INSTITUTION. aok
LIST OF FISHES. 1. LaBRAX LINEATUS, Cuv. and Val.
Rock-Fish—Striped Bass.
Labraxr lineatus; © Cuv.., and’; Val.,. Hist:Nat. Poiss. IL, -.79.=— Storer’s Report, p. 7.—DeKay, Fauna of New York, Fishes, 7, plate i, fig. 3. ‘
The well known rock-fish, or striped bass, was not caught abundantly during my stay, although occasionally taken in the mouth of the river, and near bluff banks along the thoroughfares. In winter and spring they are captured in considerable numbers in seines, and of a weight extending to twenty or thirty pounds. Individuals of this size are, however, rarely met with. No young ones were seen, as they had not yet returned from the upper portion of the river. At Sing Sing, New York, a few weeks later, several sizes of young were taken.
The rock takes a bait readily, and, from the vigor of its actions, affords fine sport with the rod and reel; the fly is especially adapted to the capture of this species.
As is well known, the rock-fish is the associate of the shad and several species of herring, in a vernal migration trom salt water to fresh, for the purpose of depositing their eggs. The development of their young is very rapid, as, when they return to the sea in the fall, they have already attained a length of about four inches; up to a size somewhat greater than this they exhibit decided indications of vertical dark bars, as in the yellow perch, but this fades out in a short time after being taken from — the water.
The rock-fish is more abundant in Chesapeake bay and its tributaries than anywhere else to the northward. Here they occur all the year round, and are taken in great numbers. During their migration, they feed voraciously upon the herring bound on the same errand up the fresh water streams. These they ‘ascend to a great height; in the Susquehanna, before the dams were built, reaching “the forks at North-
_umberland, and possibly beyond. The falls of the Potomac offer serious impediments to their passage much above the city of Washington. _ Arrested in this way, they accumulate in considerable numbers, and afford great sport to the citizens of this place during spring and early summer. The late Mr. Webster was frequently to be seen patiently exercising that skill which made him eminent among the celebrated | fishermen of the day.
Owing to its abundance, the rock is the chief staple of the Washing-
ton fee arkot, where it is to be seen throughout most of the year. ‘Tt _is usually sold at a moderate price, and it is no uncommon thing to have the opportunity of purchasing one of 30 or 40 pounds for 75 cents. _ Much interest has been excited in the experiments of Mr. R. L. Pell, ‘of Pelham, Ulster county, New York, in reference to the breeding of vrock-fish and shad in fresh waters. I have been kindly farnished by this gentleman with the following communication, which explains his method of stocking fishel
Mis. Doc. 34

<<<Page: 584>>>

‘“‘T have succeeded in rearing the striped bass, known in our river as the Croton bass, thus: male and female were placed in a small pond, the water of which was salted twice each week until the small fry appeared, when salting ceased. Sixty days after, the old fish languished, and became excessively weak, in which state they continued to exist ten days, when they died. The small fry of both shad and bass grew rapidly, and when six weeks old were placed in a larger pond, and their progeny became fresh-water fish. :
‘“‘T have a trout pond, which you probably did not see, in which I placed several hundred brook trout, varying from four to twelve inches in length. I was accustomed, for several years, to feed them frequently, and, to my surprise, they became very tame and confiding. On one occasion a large trout followed me around the pond, and so pertinacious was he, that if I suddenly passed around he crossed over ; the next day he did the same thing several times, and, finally, I lifted him from the water and discovered a corroded hook in his mouth, after removing which I replaced him in the pond. How can you account for so much instinct in a fish?”
2. LABRAX MUCRONATUS, Cuv. and Val. White Perch.
Labrax mucronatus, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss. I, 86, late xiii—Storer’s Report, 8—Labrax rufus, DeKay, Fauna of — New York, Fishes, 9, plafe iii, fig, 7.
The white perch was at no time during the summer taken in the bay, although in winter they occur there in great numbers, and are caught in seines, with rock-fish, eels, and flounders, which constitute the principal kinds of that season. They are very common in the Tuckahoe river and Cedar Swamp creek, Cape May county; indeed they exist in» almost all the creeks of the salt meadows. The largest were taken in the perfectly fresh water of Cedar Swamp creck, above the tide-water dam, and exceeded a toot in length; very few, however, attain this size.
I found them abundant at Sing Sing, New York, in the brackish waters of Croton river; they are also very common, the year round, about Washington.
By setting a net across the current of a creek, at high tide, a great many white perch can usually be caught. I have seen many bushels taken out when the water was low. Great care must be exercised, however, lest the crabs, which are intercepted at the same time, eat | holes in the net while nibbling at the fish gilled in the meshes. |
The white perch bites readily at a hook, and is frequently caught in | this way in great numbers. The flesh is very insipid and rather tough; | in fact, the fish is one of the poorest of all the marine species of our) coast.

<<<Page: 585>>>

The yellow perch, Perca flavescens, does not appear to occur at Beesley’s Point.
3. CENTROPRISTES NIGRICANS, Cuv. and Val. Black Bass—WSeaBass.
Centropristes nigricans, Cuv. and Val. Hist. Nat. Poiss. LL, 14. —Storer’s Rep. 9.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 25, plate il., fig. 5.
Like the porgee and several other species, the sea-bass or black fish, taken in Great Ege harbor, are of diminutive size, compared with those caught some distance out at sea. [do not remember any exceeding 20 ounces in weight, while most of them were not above half that size. ‘They were seldom taken in large numbers, and in fact were rather difficult to catch at all, owing to their habit of nibbling at the bait without swallowing the hook. A very small hook, with a bait of corresponding proportions, was found to furnish the best mode of capturing them. Where they abounded, however, they generally put a stop to any successful fishing. :
The black fish appears to be a summer visitor in Egg harbor, as I could not learn of its capture in winter. They were generally to be found off steep bars near the channels, very rarely near the shore. A few young ones, about an inch long, were captured at Corson’s Inlet.
The black fish, as an article of food, may be reckoned among the best of the fishes of the coast. The mea?is firm and very white, and the comparative absence of bones renders it possible to eat those of quite a small size.
Few authors, in their description of this fish, mention the broad, vertical, dark bands so conspicuous in the fish when first caught.
Color of young. specimens:—Each scale on the body with a yellowish green er greenish white centre, and a border of darker. The sides, between the head and tail, crossed by five or six broad vertical bars of blackish, (constituted by the above mentioned borders,) not, however, obliterating the lighter centres ; the borders of the scales between these bars are olivaceous. Head dark olive, the centres of the scales, the inferior border of the orbit, and several lines radiating from the eye towards the snout, rich green. Lower jaw blue, the extreme tips olive; isthmus inside the mouth and gill-covers, with the branchial arches, yellow, branchiostegal membrane brown. D. with the membrane olive green, brightest towards the edge; between each two adjacent rays of the dorsal are transverse bars of bluish white, and a larger number in the soft portion of this fin. These bars are slightly oblique to the rays, or, when the fin is erect, nearly parallel to the dorsal outline. Extreme margin of D. greenish white, with a narrow border ot black on the soft portion; C. A. V. with membranes dark olive at base, then greenish white, and margined with black, the dark portions occasionally relieved by lighter patches of whitish or olivaceous, especially along the rays. P. olive green. Length 8 inches. August.

<<<Page: 586>>>

324 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 4. Pomoris opesus, Girard. Pomotis obesus, Girard in Proe., Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., V, 1854, 40.
General color dark olive green, with six or eight vertical bars of darker on each side, covering a breadth of three or four scales. The skin at tne base of the scales, i in the space covered by these vertical bars, shows spots of golden purplish; cheeks with narrow lines and spots of the same and similar spots on the basal portion of the membrane of the vertical fins. A. and V. are glossed with metallic green on the interradial portion. Opercular flaps, rich velvet black, bordered (except behind) with a narrow line of golden purple ; a crescent of the same on the basal half, the convexity anterior; opercles metallic green. P. transparent olivaceous. In some specimens a distinct vertieal bar passes through the eye. In some, too, there is a shade of violet on each side, above the anal fins.
This species was only found in the Cedar Swamp cree eks, Cape May county, and Atlantic county, among the splatter docks, or in small runs or ditches. They were most abundant in muddy water, though occa~ sionally occurring where it was quite clear. Fins nearly black.
This modestly colored species of sun-fish appears to be confined to the fresh water in the immediate vicinity of our Atlantic coast. I first detected it in the boggy brooks near Framingham, Massachusetts, and have since taken it at other points. It was very abundant in the Sparkill, near Piermont, New York, but does not appear to have been caught by any one but myself. Of its southern range along the coast I eiuot speak, although a fish strongly resembling ia is Con taieae ina collection recently Peeeiwed ffom Georgetown, South Carolina.
5. Pomotris cHaTODON, Baird.
Banded Sun-Fish. ,
Pomotis chetodon, Baird.—General form sub-circular ; greatest depth of body comprised less than twice its length; dorsal and ventral outlines regularly convex ; profile desce nding towards the snout, which is obtuse. The mouth is small; the eye lar ge, its diameter contained but three times in the length of side of head; spinous portion of dorsal extending over a base nearly equal to that ‘of ‘thé’ soft portion, and almost as high; caudal subtruncated postenorly and largely developed, and extending a little more posteriorly than the caudal; tip of ventrals extending beyond the three anal spines; pectorals rather small, their extremity reaching as far backwards as the ventrals.
DX. Lis vA, lil, 125°C. AM Sif, 1.33 VEL os. Pe icone: Scares
quite large ; lateral nee concurrent with the dorsal outline.
General color dirty white, with clouds of olivaceous ; the tints clearer in smaller specimens; sides of abdomen silvery. Six well defined ver-
tical bands of black on each side, covering each a breadth of two or’
three scales; the first passes through the pupil across the cheeks ; the

<<<Page: 587>>>

second is posterior to the edge of the preoperculum, but interr upted i in the middle so as not to cross the operculum; the third is posterior to the first ray of dorsal; the fourth posterior to the spinous rays of anal; the fifth posterior to the end of the dorsal and anal; the sixth passes across the base of the tail. Between the third and fourth bands are short bars, one proceeding from the dorsal, the other from the ventral outline in the same vertical line, and parallel to the others. This may in fact be described as an additional bar interrupted inthe middle.
Fins greenish yellow, with moitlings of dark. Ventrals black centrally, yellow posteriorly, and deep red on the two anterior rays and intermediate membrane. Dorsal with the three anterior rays and their membrane black; the membrane between the third and fourth rays red. Pectoral plain.
Tn large specimens the tints are darker, and the ground color tinged with olivaceous.. The red of the dorsal is not distinct. Length three inches.
Abundant in the muddy water of Cedar Swamp creck, Cape May county, New Jersey.
6. CENTRARCHUS POMoTIS, Baird. The Bass SunFish.
Centrarchus pomotis, Baird.—General form elongated, subfusiform in profile; upper and lower lines regularly curved. A depression above the eye. Snout very much abbreviated; lower jaw iongest. Mouth large; posterior extremity of maxillary extending to the vertical posterior rim of eye. Diameter. of the eye contained about four times in the length of the side of head. Head constituting two sevenths of total length. Six rows of scales above the lateral line; twelve rows beriéath, Lateral line concurrent with the dorsal outline. Spinous portion of dorsal quite low, and extending over a base twice as long as the soft portion. Caudal rounded posteriorly. Anal extending a “little more backwards than dorsal.’ Five short anal spines. External soft ray of ventrals extending as a filiform appendage beyond the other rays, which do not reach the anterior margin of the’ anal. Tip of pectorals extending to a vertical which would intersect the vent.
DWOXT 12 Al Vee: A eOs if. ois: Viele Ou ee V2 Or Ae
Color.—Dark greenish olive, with three or four irregular longitudinal bands of dull greenish yellow, and occasionally cloudy spots of golden green. Sides of the head of this color, with three indistinct bands of dark olive. A dusky spot at the end of operculum. Iris purplish brown; cornea olive green. Fins quite uniform, very dark greenish olive, with darker margins, except the pectorals, which are light olivaceous, and the ventrals, the spmous rays of which are uncolored. Length six inches.

<<<Page: 588>>>

Some specimens may be better described as dark golden green, with longitudinal bands of dark olive, broken up by cloudings of greenish.
This species was only found in muddy water, or where there was. considerable cover. They were stirred out from along the banks. I sometimes thought that they lay at times completely embedded iu the mud. They were not rare in Cedar Swamp creek, and [ caught a few in the Hackensack, Rockland county, New York.
APHREDODERUS SAYANUS, Lesueur.
Aphredoderus sayanus, Lesueur.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 30, plate xxi, fig. 62.
Prevailing color dark olive brown, with occasional obscure dots of lighter. Abdomen end under surface of the throat and head, with the sides of the latter, yellowish, with fine punctations of greenish brown indistinctly visible on the sides. A vertical dark bar beneath the eye. {ris silvery, dotted with black.
D. C. and A. dark olive, with darker margin and base. This character on the tail shows as a vertical bar, parallel to which is another near the base of the tail. P. olive, V. greenish yellow, with cloudings of dusky towards the tip. Lateral line lighter than the ground color.
Largest specimens four and a half inches. Ditches of Cedar Swamp creek, Cape. May county.
This species was very abundant in a small branch of Cedar Swamp creek, above Littlew orth, where many were taken in a short time.
The size above given is probably & Maximum one, as most I have seen from other localities are considerably less. The species is little known to naturalists, although occurring in many streams on the Atlantic coast.
8. SpHYRH=NA BOREALIS, DeKay. Northern Barracuda.
Sphyrana borealis, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 39, plate lx, figs 1196.
Nothing specially noteworthy was observed as to the habits of this diminutive representative of the ferocious barracuda of Florida. None of the specimens caught, in fact, exceeded four inches in length. They were taken froma small cove at Corson’s inlet; ; afew of ‘them were * found among the grass at the mouth of the river. :

<<<Page: 589>>>

9, PRIONOTUS PILATUS, Storer. Flying Fish.
Prionotus pilatus, Storer, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. If, 77; also, Hist. of the Fishes of Mass. 20, plate vi, fig. 1.
Above mottled olive and reddish brown, with three or four large quadrate spots of darker across the back. The reddish brown spots predominate along the lower part of the sides, in some cases almost forming a longitudinal stripe. Abdomen and inferior part of the body generally reddish white. Head reddish brow n, cheeks coppery. Branchiostegal membrane and inside of mouth behind, brownish black. Pupil violet ; iris olive-green externally, brassy or coppery internally. Anterior dorsal olivaceous dusky at base, with two or more. interrupted bars of pale bluish nearly perpendicular to the rays A distinct dark spot on the membrane, between the fourth and fifth ders sal spines. Posterior dorsal transparent, mottled or coarsely vermiculated with olivaceous. P. very dark olivegreen, with reticulations of a lighter color ; chalk-white on the posterior edge of the lower surface. Aw. V. with the pectoral processes reddish brown, brightest along the margin; the former white along the base. Length six inches.
This species was very ‘abundant, and frequently taken with the hook, when its disentanglement proved to be a matter of some danger, on account of the spines of the head. In one instance a man was confined to the house for two weeks in consequence of a puncture received in this way.
When caught, this fish commences a loud croaking or barking, the sound apparently produced in the abdominal region. This is so loud and constant that in hauling a large seine the presence in the net of a single specimen of this gurnard, however small, could generally be determined by the peculiar sound emitted. For this reason it is sometimes called pig-fish by the inhabitants.
The pectoral processes are used as organs of progression, the fish dragging itself slowly upon the bottom by their aid, or raising itself up and resting on their tips. In swimming, or resting, the broad pectoral fins are generally spread out horizontally to their fullest extent—presenting a very beautiful and striking appearance, and closely resembling the wings of some butterfly.
The flesh is sweet, white, and palatable, though on account of its comparatively small size this fish is seldom eaten. Specimens caught on the surf or out at sea are usually much larger than those in the bay, sometimes exceeding a foot in length. It is said to be only a summer visitant.

<<<Page: 590>>>

328 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 10. ACANTHOCOTTUS VIRGINIANUS, Girard. The common Sculpin. Acanthocottus virginianus, Girard, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. U1, 1850, 187.—Cottus virginianus, Storer, Rep.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 51, plate v, fig. 13.
A dried specimen of a’sculpin was given me by Mr. Ashmead, which, unfortunately, was mislaid and lost. [t was taken in the winter, but does not seem to be abundant.
li. Botzosoma FUSIFORME, Girard. Darter. Boleosoma fusiforme, Girard, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. V, 41. The ouly specimens procured were taken from Cedar Swamp creek,
at Littleworth, where it was seen lying motionless at the bottom of the water, darting off swiftly when disturbed.
12. GasTEROSTEUS QuapDRACUS, Mitch. Stickleback.
Gasterosteus quadracus, Mitch. ‘Trans. Lit. and Philos. Soc. 430, plate i, fig. 11. DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 67, plate vi, fio. 18.
Reddish olive above; sides with a broad but ill-defined band of
mottled dark brown, of irregular outline, extending from the snout to the tail, with finer mottlings of the same above and below. This is sometimes broken up into irregular mottlings of dark and lighter brown, with better defined and larger blotches o pgnrker interspersed.
Region of lateral line generally hee lower part of cheeks and under. parts yellowish silvery; fins, transparent with dark mottlings on the rays; ventrals red behind the anterior spine.
A few specimens were taken, at intervals, in the salt-ponds in the meadows, or among the grass and sea-cabbage of the bay. They were most abundant in Ludley’s s run, at the crossing of the Cape May road; where the water is perfectly fresh at low Hides and brackish at high water. Here they kept along and underneath the bank, whence they were dislodged with considerable dificulty. This species was also taken in the brackish waters about Sing Sing, New York.

<<<Page: 591>>>

13. Leiostomus osiiquus, DeKay. The Lafayette.
Leiostomus obliquus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 69, plate Ix, fig. 195.
The ‘‘Cape May Goody”? of the Jersey coast, so called from its great abundance at Cape Island, is very rarely taken in winter, and appears to be rather a summer visitor. It makes its appearance, in large numbers, at Cape May, in August; the first run being composed of quite small individuals, and the larger ones succeeding these. They enter the creeks in crowds, and are caught there in company with the white perch. When perfectly fresh they are most delicious—excelled in flavor by no species on the coast. Their usual size in the bay is about six inches, though occasionally caught measurit: + ten.
This species is somewhat capricious in its visits to the northern shores ; intervals of years sometimes interven. ug between periods of abundance.
From a coincidence of one of these runs and the last visit of General
Lafayette to America, they are known by his name about New York.
14. OronirHUS REGALIS, Cuv. and Val. Weak Fish—Squeteague—Blue Fish.
Otolhithus regalis, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat., Poissons, V, 67.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 71, plate vin, fig. 24.
Young.—Back greenish, shading into yellowish silvery, with purple reflections on the side. In some specimens there are indications of subvertical blotches on the sides. None of the spots of the adult are seen until the fish exceeds 4 inches in length. D. and C. dusky; P. V. A. yellow ; Iris, silvery. Length, 4 inches.
The adult, when first caught, in addition to the markings which are retained in alcohol, presents all over a rich tint of purplish red, which very soon fades out into a dull silvery.
This species, known as blue fish at Beesley’s point, weak fish at New York, shecutts at Greenport, Long Island, and trout in Philadelphia and Baltimore, is the species most abundant of ali those considered as game by the fisherman. It makes its appearance early in the spring, and leaves for the sea late in the autumn, attaining its period of greatest abundance towards the end of July. It is very easily captured with almost any bait—clam, soft crab, or pieces of fish. Indeed, some of the best sport I ever witnessed with this fish was had by using the eyes of those already caught as bait.
No species on the coast shows so large a count in a successful day’s fishing as the weak fish, it being not uncommon for a single boat of three or four men to take from 150 to 250 in an hour or two. When

<<<Page: 592>>>

caught in such numbers, however, the size is not great, perhaps not averaging three-quarters of a pound. ‘The large specimens are generally se aie? ing in their appearance, being seldom Pikcayi in numbers. ‘These fish moves about in shoals of greater or less extent, usually swimming pretty near the surface, and requiring for their capture a line leaded very lightly or not at all. They take the bait at a snap, seldom condescending to nibble, thus requiring the line to be kept taut and ready to haul in at a moment’s warning. It is, however, only for a short time that they bite voraciously, the run seldom lasting more than one hour.
These fish keep much in the channel ways of the bay and river, when moving, but during ebb-tide, they settle in the deep holes in great numbers, remaining until flood, when they again sally forth. The old stagers are always on the alert to move up to the places of this kind well known to them, and, anchoring their boat, wait patiently for the fish. After passing some time without a nibble, the sport suddenly begins, and, for half an hour to an hour, the excitement of hooking a fish almost the instant the line is dropped, is kept up, when it again as suddenly ceases by the disappearance of the game. The most noted place of this kind about Great Ege harbor is Molasses point, already referred to, where the current is very strong during height of tide, and the great depth of water scarcely extends fon one Henured yards.
During the night the weak fish runs much up into the larger creeks of the salt meadows, and, by putting a net across the mouths of these, the weak fish, 3 king fish, and some other species may be penned up and caught in oreat numbers. In any attempt to retain specimens of moderate size, or, of the small species generally, great annoyance is experienced from the crabs, (Lupa dicantha,) which are exceedingly abundant, and, arrested by the same operation, leisurely set themselves to work in catching the fish gilled in the net. In so doing, they cut the meshes very badly, in fact some of my best seines were almost totally ruined by them.
The weak fish appears to require, during the summer, a a slight dilution of fresh water in the marine element it inhabits, as it concentrates in large numbers about the mouths of rivers in dry weather.
During the excessive drought of the past summer, it was observed that the weak fish was taken much higher up rivers than ever known before. They disappeared almost entirely from Beesley’s point about the middle of August, and could only be heard of towards 'Tuckahoe and higher up. ‘The fishermen prayed devoutly for rain to weaken the waters of the bay, and bring back the weak fish.
At Sing-Sing, New York, aa even much higher up the North river, they were taken in numbers in August and September.
The young weak fish were very abundant along the edges of the bay and in the small creeks, of sizes not exceeding four or five inches. It is quite probably that they spawn early in the season, and that these are the fry of the year. At this time they are broadly banded verti-
cally, and, with their much compressed body, would never be referred
to the weak fish but for the two prominent canines of the upper jaw. A few only had the spots of the adult.
As a table fish, this species is very much inferior to almost any other

<<<Page: 593>>>

captured on the coast. It looses its rigidity soon after being taken, becoming soft and flabby. It can hardly be used whole a few hours out of the water, and is usually served up cut into short pieces. The flesh, when cooked, is somewhat gelatinous and translucent, very different from the snowy opacity of that of the king fish.
As usual, the fish of this species taken outside in the surf, either with the line or by hauling the net, are much larger than the common run of those in the bay and’rivers. The largest I have ever seen weighed about five pounds, though they are said greatly to exceed this occasionally.
When taken, this species makes a peculiar croaking, somewhat lke that of Prionotus. This is said at times to be heard above water when the fish is at the bottom.
15. CorRVINA ARGYROLEUCA, Cuv. and Val. The Silver Perch.
Corvina argyroleuca, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss. V, 105.— DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 74, plate xvi, fig. dl.
A single specimen only of the adult fish was taken during my stay at Beesley’s point. It was caught in the bay by Captain ‘Townsend Stites, and seemed to be unknown to the fishermen.
The young, however, were very abundant in the grass along the edge of the river, of various sizes, not exceeding three inches. ‘They had no markings of any kind, the sides being of a uniform yellowish white.
It is not unfrequently brought to market in New York, where it is known as silver perch.
16. Umprina ALBURNUS, Cuy. and Val. The King—Fish.
Umbrina alburnus, Cuy. and Val.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 78, plate vii, fig. 20.
This species is known at Beesley’s point as the hake, a name derived probably from its possessing one barbel at the chin, in common with the Phycis americana, which bears the same appellation with more propriety. About New York it is called king-fish, and its congener at the south is known as whiting. Everywhere it bears the deserved reputation of being one of the finest fish caught, the sheepshead (Sargus ovis) scarcely excepted. Of Jate years this fish appears to have become quite rare about New York, but they are still abundant on the Jersey
coast. At Beesley’s point they come next in the count of a day’s

<<<Page: 594>>>

aoe NINTH -ANNUAL REPORT OF
sport to the weak fish, although thirty or forty may be considered as a first rate catch for a single boat and tide.
The king-fish makes its appearance in the bays early in the spring, leaving in me fall, and appears to observe much the same periods with the we ie fish. Like this species, it is fond of a slight mixture of fresh water, running up the mouths of rivers and ascending in proportion to the duration of dry weather.
During the past summer several were taken at Sing Sing, New York, where they had previously been unknown.
The young fish were exceedingly abundant in the river at Beesley’s point, on sandy bottom, as well as in the surf, hundreds being taken at a single sweep of a small net. The smallest were about an inch long, probably the spawn of the spring. As ‘usual, the largest specimens of the fish were caught with nets in the surf, though none that were seen exceeded fifteen inches in length.
The king-fish keeps much in schools, in or near the bottom where it is sandy or hard, preferrmg the edge of channels or the vicinity of sandbars. They keep about oyster beds, and when oysters are being taken up frequently congregate in large numbers about the boats in eager quest of the worms and other minute animals dislodged by the operation. ‘They bite very readily at clams, crabs soft or hard, and at times make little objection to pieces of fish. The best time for capturing them is on the young flood.
Like the weak fish they at times run up the small creeks in the salt meadows at night, and are taken by intercepting their return with the falling tide. 'This, however, is by no means so common a habit as with the other species.
The eastern range of the king fish is not extended. Dr. Storer records a single specimen only as having been taken in Boston harbor.
17. PoGoNIAS FASCIATUS, Lacép. The Banded Drum.
Pogonias fasciatus, Li acép., Hist. des Poiss—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 81, plate xiv, fig. 40.
Sides yellowish silvery, with six or seven broad, dark, vertical bars between the head and tail. D. and C. ou towards herr borders, the anterior D. quite dark; P. colorless; V. and A. yellow.
The young fish of this species were Seind very abundantly during August in the small bays along the shore about Beesley’s Point. Few were seen in the rivers.
18. Losores EMaRGINATUS, B. and G.
Lobotes emar einatus, B. and G. Body elongated, subfusiform in profile; head eauconical contained a little more than three times in the

<<<Page: 595>>>

total length. Posterior extremity of maxillary extending to the vertical , line of the anterior rim of pupil; eye circular; its diameter contained about four times in the length of side of head; external sott ray of ventrals continued into a oneranane thread extendme beyond the other rays, but not reaching the anal fin. Caudal emarginated posteriorly.
Dik La Abe 3) C2 4 LG coe” Vieods.’o:s. Py 15;
Scales well developed; in six rows above lateral line, and fourteen to fifteen below.
General color light olive green, with narrow, well defined longitudinal lines of purplish brown along the sides; one through the centre of each row of scales. These lines, above the lateral line, are parallel to it; below, they are somewhat oblique, ascending behind. A narrow, well defined horizontal line of steel blue passes beneath the eye, tangent to the orbit; a broader one of violet extends through the pupil,
Hallel to the upper outline of the head.
D. light olive green, the distal half of the spimous portion dull purplush; the membrane elsewhere mottled with purplish brown. C. with
rays yellow and red, the membrane mottled with purplish.
A. and V. purplish red anteriorly, yellow behind, the former somewhat mottled. P. greenish ycllow. A narrow margin of D. A. and P. pale violet. Length, three inches..
A few specimens were taken, in August, among the grass along the river.
19. Pagrus arGyrops, Cuv. and Val. The Big Porgee.
Pagrus argyrops, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poiss. VI, fig. 164.— DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 95, plate ix, fig. 25.
About six vertical broad bars of dark purplish brown on each side between head and tail; the first just anterior to the dorsal fin. The intermediate space, w hen viewed directly, appears of a brownish olive and greenish white mixed; but, held a little obliquely, this resolves into a, silvery tint, with well He fned longitudinal lines of purplish, a line for
each row of scales, and usually along the adjacent edges. Above the lateral line these lines are oblique, atid nearly parallel with the dorsal profile anterior to the D. fin. Head above (excepting a lighter bar beneath the eyes), operculum, and an oblique bar beneath the eye rich purplish brown. Back along the dorsal fin and a space on each side of the nape with reflections of rich metallic green. A dark spot on the base of the pectoral bones. Belly white, ‘closely punctate with dark brown.
D. with the rays silvery, the membrane mixed green and purplish brown, the margin clear dark reddish brown. C. brown at base, then greenish, then violaceous white, and ending in dark purplish brown; these eplors in rather ill defined V-shaped bands, parallel with the

<<<Page: 596>>>

posterior margin. Extreme tips of caudal lobes of a brighter brown ; A. green and purplish brown, bluish towards the edge, which itself is milk white. V. similar. P. transparent, tinged with dusky. Iris dark reddish brown. Length, six inches.
After death, and, indeed, most specimens when fresh caught, exhibit but faint traces of the vertical bars, the sides being silvery, with longitudinal lines of brassy yellow. Iris silvery.
This species is caught with a hook, in water from six to twelve feet deep. They feed on the bottom, and are very destructive to bait, which they nibble off from the large hake and blue fish hooks in a very ‘short time. Few exceeded six inches.
The porgee did not make its appearance in Egg Harbor bay until towards the middle of August, although said to be found at sea at an earlier period. As usual, the specimens were smaller than those taken outside the beach, though exhibiting the same beauty of color. Very few descriptions or figures convey any idea of the variety of delicate tints on this beautiful fish, which fade in a short time after death into a uniform silvery hue.
After the arrival of the porgees in the bay and mouth of the river, they become very troublesome by their great numbers and the destruction of bait caused by their incessant nibbling. A large hook will be cleaned entirely in a moment, while all efforts to catch the depredator prove vain. The only way of taking them is to use a fine line, and very small minnow hooks, baited with small bits of clams, fish, or other food. These will be swallowed boldly, and, as they bite voraciously, large numbers can be taken in a short time. It is only necessary to throw the line out to its full extent, and then at once haul it in slowly, during which movement the bait will generally be seized. A single clam, chopped fine, may serve to catch twenty or thirty.
Quite large porgees are taken about Greenport, Long Island, in very great numbers, with seines. The usual ground is on the east side of Shelter island, where a fishing smack will frequently be loaded at a single haul. During the months of August and September these fish constitute the principal stock of those sent to the New York market over the Long Island railroad. ‘The flesh of the porgee is excellent when
u : 5 : 1g fresh—scarcely surpassed by that of any other fish on the coast.
Genus EUCINOSTOMUS, B. and G.
Genus Eucinostomus, B. and G.—This genus has been established to include a species of the Menid. family, possessing the following » generic characters: Mouth small and very protractile; when protruded presenting a subconico-tubular appearance ; lips thin; palate and tongue toothless ; opercular apparatus without either spines or serratures. The second spine of the anal itself is less developed than in the genus Gerres, a genus to which the present one bears a close affinity.

<<<Page: 597>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 345 20. EucINOSTOMUS ARGENTEUS, B. and G.
Eucinostomus argenteus, B. and G.—Mouth very small; when retracted the posterior extremity of maxillary extends slightly beyond the vertical of anterior rim of the eye; base of spinous portion of dorsal equal in length to that of the soft portion; posterior extremity of soft dorsal rays extending a little more backwards than those of the anal fin.
DMT CAL Th Mormon Clot Goce bes Vel > 3 3°Pedg:
Head forming about one fourth of the whole length; eye large, its diameter contained nearly three times in the length of the side of head; scales large; ground color silvery, with transverse fascize of a danker hue in immature specimens.
This species was quite abundant in the latter part of August, in the river and small bays. None were taken exceeding three inches in length.
21. Cysrum MAcULATUM, Cuv. and Val. The spotted Cybium—Spanish Mackerel.
abi maculatum, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss. XIII, 181.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Pishés: 108, plate xxii, fig. 232.
Of this fish but two specimens were taken during my stay at Beesley’s point, and the species is scarcely known to the fishermen. It was more abundant at Greenport, Long Island; and in the Peconic bay, towards Riverhead, four hundred were caught at one haul of the seine. The flesh is excellent, having much the flavor of true mackerel, only a little softer and richer.
The fish bears a high price in the New York market, where it has been but recently known. It has bee more abundant off our coast generally this season than ever before ; and in the lower part of the Potomac, numbers have been taken and salted down. They may frequently be found in this state in the Washington market, and readily recognised by the round yellow spots on the sides, and the size so much larger lian that of the common salted mackerel. . The posterior portion of the body, to the base of the tail, is slenderer and much more elongated than in the other species.
22. Licuia caroLtina, DeKay.
Lichia carolina, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 114, plate x, figure 30.
Bright silvery, with bluish reflections on the back and upper part of sides; dorsal transparent, dusky towards the tips of the longest soft

<<<Page: 598>>>

rays. OC. A. yellowish towards their margin—the latter brightest anteriorly; V. white, tinged with yellow; P. brownish anteriorly. Iris silvery. Length, 5 inches. ie
This species was very abundant in the edge of the surf on the beach, moving about slowly in small schools. Occasionally they were seen in great numbers in the small slues running up into the beach, where several bushels were frequently taken in a sweep of ten yards with a seine eight feet long. They are most delicious as a pan-fish, and give very little trouble to fit them for cooking g, not requiring scaling and scarcely gutting. The only preparation needed is to cut off the head a little obliquely, which will remove all the intestines.
25. Licuta spinosa, Baird. The spinous Dory.
Lichia spinosa, Baird.— Trachinotus spinosus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 117, plate xix, fig. 53.
Similar in colors to the L. carolina. The anterior yellow of the dorsal and anal is, however, brighter—even gamboge yellow ; basal half of the anal, dusky; ventrals, ‘chalk: white, ‘yellow anteriorly. Length, 24 inches.
Caught in very small numbers with L. carolina.
24. CARANX CHRYSOS, Cuv. and Val. The yellow Caranz— Yellow Mackerel.
Caranx chrysos, Cuy. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss. IX, 97.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 121, plate xxvii, fig. 85.
Sides bright wax color, becoming olivaceous along the back;
darker tinge of yellow on the cheek and operculum than elsewhere. In some lights there is a violet reflection on the back. A black spot on the upper part of the posterior edge of the operculum. Dorsals, dark olive green, dusky along the margin; C. dark wax yellow at the base, then lighter yellow—the tips blackish brown; A. dark wax yellow, the margin and spinous portion opaque white; V. white, yellowish centrally; P. greenish yellow. Lengih, 84 inches.
Only one specimen of this fish was seen during my stay. It was caught in'the bay with a hook. A few more were found among the
porgees at Greenport, Long Island.

<<<Page: 599>>>

20. ARGYREIOSUS CAPILLARIS, DeKay. The Hair-finned Dory.
Argyreiosus capillaris, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 125, plate xxvil, fig. 82.
One specimen was taken in August while hauling the seine in the surf.
26. 'TEMNODON SALTATOR, Cuv. and Val. The Blue Fish—Horse-Mackerel—Ship-Jack.
Temnodon saltator, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poiss. IX, 225, plate 260. DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 130, plate xxvi, fig. Sl.
The blue fish, or horse-mackerel, as it is called at Beesley’s point, arrives in the bay early in the spring, accompanying the weak fish in its migration and preying habitually upon it. It is not usual to take them of large size during the summer; later in the season, however, specimens of two and three pounds are not unfrequently captured. Their usual size in August was from eight totwelve inches. The very young ones were found abundant at Corson’s inlet, measuring two or three inches in length. At this age they are much more compressed than afterwards.
The blue fishis one of the most voracious fisheson the coast. It bites readily at any object drawn rapidly through the water, as a bone squid, or metal spoon, minnow, white rag, and, in fact, any conspicuous bait. They are generally caught by trolling on the surface of the water, best by sailing back and forth across a channel way, when the wind and tide are in opposite directions. Unless the line is armed with quill near the hook, or wired for a short distance, it is cut off by the sudden snap of their nipper-like teeth, this species ranking with the shark in the facility with which it takes off the hook.
The blue fish keeps near the surface of the water, and frequently leaps some distance into the air. It preys habitually upon the weak fish, and its ravages among the latter species seem to have diminished greatly its numbers off the coasts of New York and New England. It finds, likewise, an easy prey in the schools of Mossbunkers, among which it is said to commit such havoc that the gulls are attracted far and near in quest of the bits of flesh and mutilated fish which float on the surface.
Such congregations of birds often indicate to the fishermen the presence of blue fish on his grounds.
This species, like the weak fish, runs up the mouths of rivers even to where the water is comparatively fresh. Small ones were very abundant at Sing Sing the past summer, and were caught readily from the rocks or along the wharves. They were known as white fish.
Mis. Doc. 24———22

<<<Page: 600>>>

They are taken in large numbers in the Potomac river as far up as Acquia creek, as well as in Philadelphia, where they are called tailors.
27. PEPRILUS TRIACANTHUS, Cuy. HarvestFish.
Peprilus triacanthus, Cuv., Réegne Anim. 3d ed.—Rhombus triacanthus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 137,*plate xxvi, fig. 80.
Several specimens were taken in a net at Corson’s inlet. They were occasionally seen swimming slowly in small schools close to the steep banks of the inlet. The flesh is said to be tolerably well flavored, though less so than that of many other scomberoid species of the Jersey coast.
28. ATHERINOPSIS NoTATUS, Girard.
The Silverside—Sand-Smelt.
Atherinopsis notatus, Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc., Philad. VII, 1854, 198.—Atherina notata, Mitch—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 141, plate xxvi, fig. 88.
This diminutive species may be said almost to out-number all others on the coast, the cyprinodonts not excepted. It is found quite abundantly everywhere throughout Egg Harbor bay, though of small size; but it is along the sands of the beach and about the inlets that its vast schools are met with. Here they come in with the rising tide, especially when it flows over an extensive tract of sands bare at low water
or with only a few pools. At times the water will appear in a state of constant agitation with the attempts of the fish to keep in the edge of
the tide as it rolls on, and bushels can be taken in a short time merely with scoop-nets. Several parties, provided each with a fine meshed seine of twenty or thirty feet in length, could readily fill a wagon in a little while. Although no use is made of these ‘silver sides’? on our coast, except as bait, there is no doubt that, potted and prepared as sardines and anchovies, they would be excellent.
With the exception of Hydrargira jflavula, which is found in large numbers in the same localities, few other fish are met with in these large schools of atherinas. A few scattered Cyprinodon ovinus and small mullets only are to be seen. ‘The maximum size to which the atherina attains is about six inches, although fish of this length are seldom caught in the bay. The flesh is nearly translucent and very sweet; and no preparation being required to fit them for the frying-pan,

<<<Page: 601>>>

they might, though comparatively small, be eaten more frequently than they appear to be. ;
The silver-side, or sand-smelt, as it is called further east, makes an excellent bait for blue fish, weak fish, and, in fact, almost any other species. It must constitute the chief article of food for the larger fish on our coast, as it 1s found everywhere, even far up the mouths of rivers. It was very abundant at Sing Sing. In fact, I have seldom drawn a net anywhere in salt water or brackish without seeing it. It is a constant associate of the cyprinodonts in the salt ponds and meadows. It bites readily at a hook, although very seldom swallowing the bait owing to the smallness of its mouth.
29. Mucin atBuxa, Linn. The White Mullet. Mugil albula, L.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 146.
Back dark bluish black; sides lustrous silvery; beneath opaque white; a dark bluish black spot on the body, at the base of the pectoral fin; iris silvery, with a yellowish tinge above, as also on the operculum; D. and C. dark bluish on the membrane, especially towards the extremities; P. less strongly marked in the same manner; V. and A. opaque white, the latter with a few brown dots on the rays. Length 44 inches.
Although small mullets were caught in considerable numbers in the creeks and about the inlets, none of large size were seen. The larger ones do not arrive until September, when they are said to be abundant. They then come close to shore among the grass, and run up the creeks in numbers, even where the water is shallow. When intercepted in a seine they leap over the upper edge with great readiness, one following the other, like a flock of shep. ‘Their maximum size is from eight to ten inches.
This fish becomes extremely fat, so much so as to require no grease in frying. The flesh is said to be very palatable, though rather rich. The large mullets do not remain long in the bay, generally returning to the sea in the fall. A few, however, are said to remain all winter in the salt ponds.
30. Gosius ALEPIDOTUS, Bosc. The variegated Goby.
Gobius alepidotus, Bose——DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 160, plate, xxii, fig.70.
Translucent olive green, with seven or eight vertical lines of lighter along the side; vertical fins, mottled with dusky spots, arranged in series transverse to the rays. Length one inch.
A few specimens only of this rare fish were taken in the grass along the beach of the river.

<<<Page: 602>>>

3l. BATRACHUS VARIEGATUS, Les. Toad-Fish— Oyster-F ish.
Batrachus variegatus, Les., Journ. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad. HI, 398.— DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 171.
Body olivaceous, closely but rather coarsely vermiculated with darker; three or four quadrate spots across and along the back; iris greenish yellow, with four broad double radii of greyish; fins reddish brown towards the borders, their general color light olivaceous; C. and P. with well defined bands of darker, transverse to the rays; D. and A. with similar bands disposed obliquely towards the rays, the angle anterior; a dark spot on the anterior dorsal ; V. and inferior parts of body reddish white—in large specimens, the latter yellowish, with dark blotches. Length six inches.
The toad-fish, or, as it is called at Beesley’s point, the oyster-fish, on account of its frequenting the oyster beds, is one of the fishermen’s pests, from its great abundance, and pertinacity in taking the hook baited for nobler game. Few fish are more repulsive in appearance than this species, with its large, flattened head, broad mouth, laciniated processes or fringes about the jaw, goggle eyes, and slimy body. It will live a long while out of water, snapping at the finger even when almost dried up. It is capable of inflicting quite a severe bite, and is always handled with a great deal of caution.
The eggs are said to be laid on oyster shells, or between their empty valves, at Beesley’s point, in the entire absence of stones or pebbles, which constitute the usual place of deposite. An artificial pile of stone near Chattin’s tavern is a favorite locality with them. The eggs are about the size of number 6 shot at first, but enlarge to the bulk of a pea; their color is a bright yellow. The fish watches its nest very vigilantly, and can scarcely be driven away, snapping at the finger ora stick, and when forcibly removed returning with the first opportunity.
The flesh is said, by those who have been able to overcome their aversion to the fish, to be very sweet and palatable.
The toad-fish seldom comes very near shore, few having been taken in the hauling of small seines. I have never seen it up the small creeks.
o2. Tautoca AMERICANA, Cuv. and Val. Tautog—The Black Fish.
Tautoga americana, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poiss. XIII, 293.— DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 175, plate xiv, fig. 39.
The tautog, smooth black fish, or chub, as the species is indifferently called, was not abundant at Beesley’s point during the past summer, although their number is said to be greater in the fall. ‘They are caught off the steep banks, in the channel-ways and the thoroughfares.

<<<Page: 603>>>

The flesh is not very remarkable for its excellence, being greatly sur' passed by several other species.
Owing to the toughness of the skin and the firm adhesion of the scales, it is customary to skin the tautog before cooking, whenever of sufficient size to permit it.
Young fish of this species were taken in considerable numbers in the river and about the inlets, when hauling the nets. Their color was generally of a light olive green.
33. AILURICHTHYS MARINUS, B. and G.
Sea Cat-Fish.
Ailurichthys marinus, B. and G., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad. VI.— Galeichthys marinus, De Kay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 178, plate xxxvil, fig. 118.
The sea-cat or channel-zat, was occasionally taken with the hook in the channel of the river. Nothing specially was learned of its habits. The flesh is very indifferent, being coarse and rank, tasting much like that of small sharks.
34. LEUCOSOMUS AMERICANUS, Girard.
Dace.—Wind-Fish—Shiner.
Leucosomus americanus, Girard in Storer, Hist. Fishes of Massach. 117, plate xxi, fig —Abramis versicolor, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 191, plate xxxii, fig. 103.
This species was very abundant in the fresh waters of Cedar Swamp creek and Cedar creek, two streams emptying into the Egg Harbor river on opposite sides. None were seen excepting in perfectly fresh water above the tide dams. They were in considerable numbers, as being the principal representative of the cyprinoids in the New Jersey streams. This species is found everywhere in the streams of the Atlantic coast to Maine. Nothing of special interest was noted as to its
habits.
30. CaTOsSTOMUS GIBBOSUS, Les. The Horned Sucker—Chubsucker.
Catostomus gibbosus, Les.—Labeo gibbosus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 194, plate xxxii, fig. 101.—Cutostomus tuberculatus, Les.— DeKay, ibid, 199, plate xxxi, fig. 97.
This was the only sucker found in the Cedar creeks, nor is any other species believed to occur there. It is everywhere constantly associated
2) abl

<<<Page: 604>>>

with the Leucosomus americanus ; and these, with a small species of Leuciscus allied to L. hudsonius, constitute almost the only cyprinoids of the fresh waters on our coast. I have seen no other species from New Jersey to Maine in streams emptying directly into the ocean or into brackish waters, except when quite removed from the salt water.
36. MELANURA PyGMmA, Agass.
Mud-Fish.
Melanura pygmea, Agass.—Leuciscus pigmaeus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 214, plate xli, fig. 134.
Only one specimen of this species was obtained, caught in a muddy ditch along side the fresh waters of Cedar Swamp creek. Of the five or six species of this genus indicated by Professor Agassiz, all appear to have the same peculiarity of living almost entirely in mud. A locality, which, with the water perfectly clear, appears destitute of fish will perhaps yield a number of mud-fish on stirring up the mud at the bottom and drawing a seine through it. Ditches in the prairies of Wisconsin, or mere bog-holes apparently affording lodgment to nothing beyond tadpoles, may thus be found filled with melanuras. Their usual associates in such places in the west are Gasterosteus inconstans, Kirt.
I found none on Long Island, although they doubtless occur in the muddy streams about Riverhead. Mr. J. C. Brevoort, obtained a single specimen near Bedford, and Dr. Ayres some at Brookhaven. This genus appears to be confined to a few points near brackish and salt waters, and to the vicinity of the great lakes; they are especially abundant on the plateaus dividing the waters of the lakes from those of the Mississippi. I have caught them all around Lakes George and Champlain; on the American shores of all the great lakes except Lake Superior; and on their dividing ridges, as already stated, as far. west as the Mississippi, in Wisconsin. ‘They have, however, not yet been detected much south of this region in the interior.
This species of Melanura is probably identical with Leuciscus pygmaeus of DeKay, an unfortunate name, as it belongs to an entirely different family than the Cyprinidae, and attains to a larger size than the rest, much larger than many of the Leucisc?. Specimens taken in Rockland county, New York, and in the same localities whence Mr. J. G. Bell obtained those sent to Dr. DeKay, measure nearly six inches in length. I procured a large number of them during the past summer.
37. FunpuLus zEBRA, DeKay. Fundulus zebra, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 218.
Above, dark olive green, lighter on the sides; on the throat and belly greenish white; 12 to 15 vertical bands on each side of greenish

<<<Page: 605>>>

white, with spots of greenish golden sprinkled in the intervals. Operculum bronzed, iris greenish black, with a narrow golden ring on the inner border; D. and C. dark olive, margined with light grass green, the former with greenish white spots on the posterior half, some of them occasionally confluent; the latter with smaller spots of the same on the membrane, arranged in series transverse to the rays; A. and P. gamboge yellow on the distal half, with black spots posteriorly, the former with some light spots. Length three inches.
Female fishes corresponding to the F. wridescens of De Kay, and probably of this species, are uniform olive, with the belly yellowish white. Some specimens have obscure vertical dark lines.
This species is exceedingly abundant in the small creeks of the salt meadows, less numerous in the ponds. They are very active in their movements, darting to cover at the slightest alarm. Like all the other species, they are excessively voracious, and a dead fish of considerable size will be eaten up ina few minutes by the dense crowd of these diminutive scavengers, darting upon it from all points. A clam pounded up and thrown in among them, will ina moment attract many hundreds, and they are frequently taken for bait, by putting the clam into a scoop-net, and withdrawing the net suddenly, with the fish enclosed.
There is no doubt that the various species of cyprinodonts on our coast perform very important services in rapidly removing dead animals, as fishes, crabs, shells, &c., from the water, and thus keeping up the proper equilibrium. This they do to a much greater extent than the crabs, which, however, assist in the labor. Abundant everywhere along the shores and in the creeks and ponds of the meadows, they are always on hand to do their work.
Nothing was observed at Beesley point in regard to the reproductive peculiarities of any of the cyprinodonts, the season of the year not being favorable. It is very probable, however, that most of them are viviparous, like many other species of the family. Like the others, this one is remarkably tenacious of life, resisting successfully long absence from water, even to the extent of considerable desiccation.
A few specimens were caught in the fresh waters of Cedar Swamp creek. They are, however, essentially a salt water species.
38. FuNDULUS DIAPHANUS, Agass. Aydrargira diaphana, Lesueur.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 219.
This species was found abundantly in Ludlum’s run, at a point where the water is perfectly fresh at low tide, but becomes brackish during high water. It was also taken in the fresh waters of Cedar Swamp creek. J do not remember to have ever noticed it in pertectly salt water.

<<<Page: 606>>>

39. FUNDULUS MULTIFASCIATUS, Cuv.
Fundulus multifasciatus, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. des Poiss. XVIII, 200.—Hydrargira multifasciata, Lesueur—De Kay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 220.
This species was found everywhere associated with H. flavula, but in quite limited numbers.
40. HyprarGIRA FLAVULA, Storer.
Hydrargira flavula, Storer.—Esor flavulus, Mitch.— Fundulus fasciatus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 216, plate xxxi, fig. 98.
This species may be called the giant of the northern cyprinodonts, attaining a size only approached by the females of Fundulus zebra. As in F. zebra, the female 1s considerably larger than the male. Specimens were taken nearly eight inches in length.
The H. flavula is very rarely found in the bays and meadows, the few that occur in such localities being very small, and much scattered. It is along the beach, and about the inlets, that the immense numbers that exist on our coasts can be appreciated. As the tide is rising and flowing over flat sands, or up the narrow shores and channel ways, this species will be seen in dense schools, slowly swimming with the tide, and readily recognised by its large size and the light spot near the dorsal fin.
It generally keeps distinct from the atherinas, which are equally or even more abundant in the same situations. A few Cyprinodon ovnus are sometimes seen in company, rarely any other species of the same family.
The sexes of this species are conspicuously different in marking, the male having many broad vertical bands on each side, from head to tail, the female two or three longitudinal ones.
41. Hyprareyra tucis, Baird.
Hydrargira lucie, Baird.—General form elongated, though of rather short appearance. Head constituting less than one-fourth of total length. Insertion of anal slightly in advance of origin of dorsal, and rather more developed than the latter. Vertrals very small; their extremity reaching the anus. Tail large. D.8; A. 9; C. 6,1. 8, 7,1. 5; V. 6; PE eS:
Dark olive green above, lower part of sides and beneath rich ochre yellow. Sides with 10 or 12 broad, well defined, vertically disposed’ dark bars, nearly as large as their inter-spaces, which are of a faint tint of greenish white. All the fins but the dorsal are of a uniform yellowish, lighter than the abdomen. Dorsal, yellow on the terminal

<<<Page: 607>>>

half, the basal portions olivaceous, with a large black spot posteriorly, and immediately anterior to it a white one. The dark spot is bordered above and behind by the yellow part mentioned. In one specimen the posterior half of the base of the dorsal fin is dull white, with a large subcircular spot of black in the centre. Length about one inch.
P. similar, the dorsal unspotted, the yellow less intense.
A few specimens only were taken, in a small ditch at Robinson’s landing, Peck’s beach, opposite Beesley’s point.
42. CyprINopon ovints, Val.
Cyprinodon ovinus, Valenc.—Esozx ovinus, Mitch.— Lebias ovinus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 215, plate xxvu, fig. 87.
This species was very abundant in the salt ponds, more so than any other ; it was seen but rarely in the creeks or in the bays. Specimens were taken of much larger size than the supposed average; and the males. recognised by the black band on the end of the caudal fin, were found to be larger than the females.
43. Cyprinopon PpArvus, B. & G.
Cyprinodon parvus, B. and G.—Form elongated, resembling a diminutive Leuciscus ; head constituting less than a fourth of the total length ; eye quite large and circular, being contained three times in the length of the side of the head; caudal posteriorly rounded.—D. 10; A. 10; C. o. I. 7. 6. I. 4; V.6; P. 15. Scales quite large, deeper than long, and disposed in eight longitudinal series upon the line of greatest depth of the body ; seven series may be observed upon the peduncle of the tail.
This species was found in the small ponds of the salt meadows, generally in the grass; and owing to their diminutive size the males were not often taken, and, in fact, neither sex was found in anything like the abundance of most other species. The colors during lite were very plain, being without any of the peculiar patterns of other species. I observed if, sparingly, in many localities in Long Island, especially at Greenport. It has a close resemblance to the females of Heterandria.
44. Esox rasciatus, DeKay.
Short: billed Pike.
Esox fasciatus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 224, plate xxxiv, fig. 110.
Brownish olivaceous; a longitudinal lighter vertebral stripe. On each side of the body a median longitudinal irregular band of golden,

<<<Page: 608>>>

sending off bars transversely above and below, sometimes opposite each other, sometimes alternate, occasionally branching and anastomosing. Beneath greenish or yellowish white. Iris purplish brown, with a golden interior ring.
Dorsal and caudal fins plain olive, tinged with red. A. V. P. pink— this color becoming rather deeper after death. Length, 10 inches. Abundant in Cedar Swamp creek. Specimens of considerably larger size were taken.
45. Esox rRETICULATUS, Les. Pickerel.
Esox reticulatus, Les—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 223, plate xxxiv, fig. 107.
Rather rare in Cedar Swamp creek. Associated with E. fasciatus.
46. BELoNE TRUNCATA, Les. The Bill-Fish—Sea-Pike—Silver GarFish, Xe.
Belone truncata, Lesueur.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 227, plate xxxv, fig. 112.
Color—Back dark green; sides opaque silvery white; beneath dull white—the lines of separation between these colors very distinct 5 cornea green; iris silvery; fins subtransparent, with fine punctations of greenish on the membrane, much thickest on the D. and C.; length, 8 inches.
The silver gar made its appearance, in August, in considerable numbers, though of quite small size. It was found in the shallow bays and creeks—more abundantly in the slues on the beach, keeping in compact bodies, and swimming slowly along.
This species is fond of running up into fresh water during the summer, and is often taken a considerable distance from the ocean. I have seen them in the village of Riverhead, Long Island; and they are at times quite abundant off the city of Washington. They have been seen at Columbia, Pennsylvania, in the Susquehanna. They sometimes are taken with a hook, although such an occurrence is quite rare. When of large size, their flesh is of excellent flavor.
47. Saurus MEXICANUS, Cuv. Saurus mexicanus, Cuv., Régne Anim.—(Griff. transl.) X, 431.
A single specimen of this fish was taken in a seine in the river. Although abundant off the southern coast, it is rarely seen so far to the

<<<Page: 609>>>

north. Dr. DeKay does not enumerate it among the fishes of New York, yet several have been procured by Mr. Brevoort about Long Island.
48. EneRAvULIS vitTaTA, B and G. The Anchovy.
Engraulis vittata, B and G.—Engraulis mitchilli, Cuv. and Val., Hist. Nat. Poiss., XXI.—Clupea vitiata, Mitch— DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 254.
It is a little remarkable that no mention of the occurrence of Engraulis on the Atlantic coast of the United States, is made by any American writer. The species was long ago described by Dr. Mitchill, so accurately as clearly to indicate this genus; but Dr. DeKay does not appear to have noticed it at all.
The anchovy made its appearance early in August in the shallow waters along the beach, although of very small size. They became subsequently more abundant; and towards the end of the month, while hauling a large net in the surf, many were taken measuring over six inches in length. As the meshes of the net were very large, the greater portion readily escaped; but with a seine properly constructed enough could be readily procured to supply the American market.
I procured several specimens of this fish, in 1847, at the residence of Mr. Audubon, on the Hudson river, above New York.
49. ALoSA MENHADEN, Mitch. The Moss-Bonker—Bony Fish—Hard Head.
Alosa menhaden, Mitch.—Storer, Rep., p. 117.—De Kay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 259, plate xxi, fig. 60.
Back dark green, shading into yellowish, silvery on the sides and beneath. Iris silvery. A rounded dark spot behind the upper part of the operculum, and five or six smaller ones, less distinct, in a longitudinal row behind it, the latter sometimes indistinct. All the spots are on the skin, showing through the transparent seales.
D. and C. yellowish, with a dark margin; the remaining fins colorless.
The moss-bonker is a fish of great economical importance, as much so, perhaps, as any other on our coast. This is not on account of its flesh, which, though sweet, is too full of bones to be generally acceptable; as a manure, however, it replaces all other fertilizers on and near the sea-shore.

<<<Page: 610>>>

The countless schools of moss-bonkers, most of them of vast extent, seen everywhere on the Atlantic coast, represent a species quite equal in numbers to any other of the same size belonging to our fauna.
Every bay and river-mouth along our coast is filled with them during the summer, and they can everywhere be taken with great ease. The schools swim at the surface, their dorsal fins projecting above the water, and keeping it in such agitation as to be readily discernible at a great distance. They are generally followed by blue fish, sharks, and other predacious species, which commit such havoc in their ranks, it is said, that the gulls frequently follow in their wake to feed upon the fragments lefi floating behind.
The fishermen about Greenport, when in pursuit of moss-bonkers, lie some distance off shore, with two seines joined together, each seine resting on a separate boat, provided with its crew. When a school is seen of sufficient size to warrant the trouble, the joined ends of the nets are dropped into the water, and as the boats separate they make a turn, and thus enclose the fish; the ends of the nets are then taken to the shore, and the net itself drawn up by means of a windlass. Many thousands are taken at a haul, and meet with a ready sale. Quite recently several establishments have been erected on Long Island for the manufacture of oil from the moss-bonker. The fish, as brought in, are chopped up and boiled, and the oil skimmed off; a heavy pressure on the residuum expresses the remaining oil, and what is left is still useful as a manure. ‘The oil finds a ready market. It has been estimated that a single fish will furnish enough oil to saturate a surface of paper eighteen inches square.
Most of these fish, however, are used directly as fertilizers, by being ploughed or hoed in the ground. It is quite customary when planting corn to place a fish in each hill, the result being seen in a very luxuriant growth of the plant.
Besides being taken in the manner just described and by single seines put out from the shore, many are captured in gill-nets set in channels of rivers and other localities frequented by them. Many are taken in this way in the Hudson river and tributaries, as well as elsewhere.
Besides its use as manure, the moss-bonker, from its abundance, is employed toa great extent as bait for other fishes. Chopped up fine, it constitutes a chief bait for eels in eel-pots, and the flesh is very attractive to the blue fish and other species. When used as food, it is usually skinned, to remove the oilier layer of black fat, and the back bone is generally taken out at the same time.
The moss-bonker is much infested by a species of lernaean, which is buried in the skin by its star-shaped processes with a long projecting thread.
The moss-bonker is not much sought after at Beesley’s point, nor did J hear of any who made a business of catching them there for manure.

<<<Page: 611>>>

50. Atosa Marrowaca, DeKay.
Alosa mattowaca, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 250, plate xl, fig. 127.—Clupea mattowaca, Mitch.
A few specimens were caught in the surf with a large seine.
ol. ALtosa TERES, DeKay. Alosa teres, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 262, plate xl, fig. 128.
A number of specimens of this rare species were found one day in the edge of the surf along the beach; they seemed to be very weak, _and died soon after their capture.
52. CHATOESSUS SIGNIFER, DeKay. Thread-Herring. Chatoessus signifer, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 264, plate xh, fig. 132.
A few specimens were taken in a net in the bay. In life the back is bright green; the caudal fin yellow, black at the tip.
53. PLATESSA OCELLARIS, DeKay. The long-toothed Flounder.
Platessa ocellaris, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 300, plate xlvu, fig. 152.
This flounder is caught very abundantly during the summer, especially in the month of July, when it frequently constitutes the chief result of a day’s fishing. It is generally found on sandy bottoms, and bites readily at almost any bait. They are sometimes taken in large numbers by means of nets in the deep slues along the beach.
In winter they at times seem to be quite torpid on the shallow grounds, suffering themselves to be taken up with oyster tongs without
making any attempt to escape.
o4. PLATESSA PLANA, Storer. The New York Flat-Fish—Winter Flounder.
_Platessa plana, Storer.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 295, plate xlvin, fig. 154, and plate xlvix, fig. 158.
__ A few specimens only of this species were taken in the shores on the beach. It is said to be found abundantly in the bay during winter.

<<<Page: 612>>>

350 NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF 0). RHOMBUS MACULATUS, Girard. The spotted Turbot.
Rhombus maculatus, Girard, in 7th Ann. Rep. Reg. Univ. N. Y., on State Cab., 23.—Pleuronectes maculatus, Mitch. DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 302, plate xlvu, fig. 151.
Taken occasionally of small size in the surf.
06. ACHIRUS MOLLIS, Cuvy. The New York Sole.
Achirus mollis, Cuv., Régne Anim., I.—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 303, plate xlix, fig. 159.
A few specimens were caught in the river by means of seines. The species, though resident, is taken most frequently in early spring. When thrown on the shore it buries itself in the sand, and is out of sight ina few moments. It is familiarly known at Beesley’s Point under the name of hog-choker, as when seized by the hogs it doubles itself up, and, filling the esophagus, obstinately resists by the scabrous nature of its scales all effort on the part of the animal to swallow it.
57. ANGUILLA TENUIROSTRIS, DeKay.
Anguilla tenuirostris, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 300, plate lui, fig. 173.
As might be expected from the vast mud-flats of the bay and its generally muddy bottom, eels are exceedingly abundant about Beesley’s point. In passing slowly over the shallow waters near the shore, they will be seen darting out from among the sea-weeds at the bottom every few rods, and may readily be captured by a skillful hand armed with a gig. They can be caught readily, likewise, by means of a hook and line, by bobbing, with eel-pots, and the other devices suitable to the capture of the genus. Night is, of course, the best time for taking them in any way.
In winter they bed in the soft mud, to the depth of about a foot, and are then easily secured by means of a broad gig or spear.

<<<Page: 613>>>

—— +
58. CoNnGER occipENTALIS, DeKay.
The Conger Eel.
“Conger occidentalis, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 314, plate lii,
Teed 2s
Clear olive above, shading into silvery on the sides and beneath. Vertical fins thin and transparent, with a narrow and well defined margin of brownish black. Iris, silvery. After death the silvery hue is more predominant.
Only one specimen of this species was taken at Beesley’s point. It was captured on the 16th of August at Molasses point, and seemed entirely unknown to the residents.
09. OPHIDIUM MARGINATUM, DeKay.
Ophidium marginatum, DeKay, New York, Fauna, Fishes, 315, plate lit, fig. 169.
One specimen was taken during the past winter, and presented by
Mr. Chatten.
60. SYNGNATHUS VIRIDESCENS, DeKay. The Green Pipe-Fish.
Syngnathus viridescens, Dekkay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 521, plate liv, fig. 176.
This pipe-fish was very abundant in the sea-weed and grass near the mouths of the inlets, every haul of the net bringing in hundreds. They were of many shades and colors, and of sizes varying from one inch to eight.
61. DiopoN MACULATO-STRIATUS, Mitch. Lhe Spot-Striped BalloonFish.
Diodon maculato-striatus, Mitch—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 323, plate lvi, fig. 185.
A few specimens were taken in the river.
62. Diopon Futictnosus, DeKay.
Diodon fuliginosus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 324, plate lv fig. 181.
A few specimens captured in the river by means of a seine.

<<<Page: 614>>>

63. TeTRAoDON TURGIDUS, Mitch. Toad-Fish.
Tetraodon turgidus, Mitch—DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 327, plate lv, fig. 178.
Dark olive green above and on the upper part of the sides, with fine black points intermixed. Abdomen and beneath, pure opaque white. Lower part of sides ochre yellow, with six or seven large vertically oblong and rounded blotches of brown. Above these are occasionally traces of dark mottling; fins pale yellowish. Iris reddish brown, with an inner circle of a coppery or brassy color.
This fish is frequently caught in the bay of Great Egg harbor, while fishing for better species. When drawn up, it immediately inflates its body to a prodigious size by means of short jerking inspirations, the sac becoming distended with air if in the atmosphere, or water, when submerged. By scratching it on the belly or pounding it, it will readily inflate itself several times in succession, and again discharge its load at a single effort through mouth and gills. When inflated and thrown on the water, it will sometimes float to a great distance before collapsing.
The skin around the eye of this species is contractile to such an extent as completely to close up the latter by a kind‘of puckering.
This fish is most abundant in summer; rarely, if ever, taken during the winter, and only occasionally in early spring.
64. CARCHARIAS CHRULEUS, DEKay. The small blue Shark.
Carcharias ceruleus, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 349, plate Ixi, fig. 200.
The blue shark was quite abundant in the bay during the summer, and quite a number were captured by various parties. They were taken by means of large shark-hooks baited with eels or other fish, a small keg being used as a float. Several of the boats always carried shark-lines, which were put out when on suitable ground, the buoy being allowed to float off to some distance. On getting a bite the small lines would be taken up, the anchor raised, and every effort made to tire out the shark. Sometimes the fish would be towed to an island and hauled up, or again drawn in to the side of the boat, and killed by means of a harpoon or sword. The largest taken in this way was about nine feet long.
Though sufficiently abundant to be seen any day swimming with their dorsal fins above the surface, no instance was mentioned by the inhabitants of their attacking bathers while in the water.
Small specimens were occasionally taken on hooks baited for other
fish.

<<<Page: 615>>>

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.. wy 65. MusteLus—canis, DeKay.. The Hound-Fish—Dog-shark.
Mustelus, Mitch., canis, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 355, plate Ixiv, fig. 200.
The little dog-shark was sufficiently abundant to constitute a griev-ous pest to those whe aimed after something more edible. It was no uncommon thing to see from ten to twenty taken in a few hours’ fishing. They bite at almost any bait, and their presence is generally fatal to much success among other species. ‘The flesh is not very pa~ latable, having much of the coarse and rank flavor of the sea cat-fish.
66. ZyGaNna TiBuRO, Val.
Zygena tibure, Val—Yarrell, Brit. Fish., 1, 507—Squalus tiburo, Linn. Syst. Nat. I, 399, 6.
Only one specimen of this shark was obtained, although several were taken by the fishermen. This one was caught by Mr. Charles Ashmead, in the bay, and measured about eighteen inches. The Z. malleus is also said to occur even more abundantly than the present species. I do not find this species recorded hitherto as occurring on the American coast.
67. Pastinaca HasTaTA, DeKay. The Whip Sting-ray.
Pastinaca hastata, DeKay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 373, plate lxv, hig. 214.
This species was found to be abundant in the bay and elsewhere. It was frequently taken With the hook, and every hau! of the seine in the surf brought in numbers. The smallest caught were about the size of a breakfast plate, the largest measured about four feet across, with a tail five feet long.
The wounds inflicted by means of the serrated spine on the tail of the sting-ray are justly dreaded by the fishermen, who use the greatest care in handling them. The usual practice is to cut off the tail at once, and thus render the fish hors du combat. Instances have been
known of this spine being driven through the hand with such violence as to render it necessary to pull it out from the opposite side. | The large ones, when brought in by the seines, are so heavy as materially to impede the hauling of the net. In this case some of the men were in the habit of thrusting the handle of an oar into the orbit, and ~ this convenient pot @apput sliding the monster out upon the ank.
Mis. Doc. 24

<<<Page: 616>>>

*338
‘opreess
BROT BORIC ECR SOO CIE, C00) og SORA
Epnoh ier sehen claleterans.e)) 016.01 e/8iee oct s1sieQ tye. eiensiarezeie-
SOR a IO IO. 208 ECO COO Or OOOO. . 0 FHL 49) thy) ka sopooxy
sleeerstseees seeeerre
soesteeseeroocce ress ssuoIpayEIepop eueTvos ‘Ivds *o[LD
s[o ec ee ee cee eee cessmocceteerceeeesieesseeecoooers gist popis-xis ‘avds ‘opug
a ee)
yaimydius yorrq pur
Ce ee
store ceueleteie. opezsiabenens (c'eeislel(eiokstese/e<erelsiclecc) 1) shake
tieee etter seeeseuesceeeee sands ‘ofa Jo s[vjshio ourg
"se enyAing jo oyeydins pazetpes pur weds sopeg Steeles ee cope eee tite seine eee cog
oe eee tener eee eee es addon jo oyeuogsIeo
udel6 YM payroo saddoo jo yoanydyns yortq Sutureyuoo vyAreq jo ayeydiug
oi/esseim miata 6:6) ages 0" ©.s gs Wie, e'm Toe, ipsataie Sigiexehe, Ua idiseea ave) #56 Q)1)0 ©) *°9"wiays\9/e7e0 °c ieee Aas Say
Coote ee teeeeeree cree eee sgne serene esses sense sco
Peete eee e eects e crews erane sere seer sree sees sO
stress spexiut Sraddoo jo yaanydyns yortq puv vyArvq jo ayeyd[ng
Coe ee rere rere rere seesecrssce sree sees es 1gddgg jo nydirq jo ayeydyns yyw SeyAanq jo ayeydyns quroo .syo0r) Pope eee L ee eer teers ete sence eegne etree ree ees OG
eto wcceccecce ee settee so steee esto
theeteeees og
sete e sree eerie wees rere eee tgp essere see ee sso teeereeee sod rete er reescog Pisses eropr eset esses 0g Heese etree sod reese sod teen r eres tog tees e ee sees cog tere eee ee rog teense eee sro Jo ayeyd[ns quioo ,syoog
le} sise (mye)'s! svdeneioieishe. of evexesecs ie shazeie ods (iy ziere
bre iobev lakeshore exsisrohe)"ele sg) seatis Welenages sis 13 pyosuater®. 2%
tee eee reer ee eee
sicieelevejehe'endie 's alee ‘ei savveve'e e/ssteisis'eieqtysyele
settee ene e coer eeseer em Cinq seceesesscinds ‘opea puz vyAizq jo ayvydyns quiod sy90p
OC CROO.OC:0 OCCT EO EO) CRA iT a aaa 2 A ** goqaeyy oyedy aveu ‘Aurduioy yIOX MON [ress s tess s esse sees es cinds yj00} Sop pur ByAreq Jo ajeydus quiod ,syo0-) | ieee 2 ae = als Se ee —_ ea ae “AyIpROOT] | ‘uordtiosaqy I
L a Sg 1. |#se Lé fe al. ae 9% { OL %
l I I Sa99 i i
OO RR RR ee ee Sron
KR ToOScrDon
mA OS re
-suoutioeds | “ON @Als JO ON | -S0101g
*xoq
ToS N |
ae = 2
‘wornpusuy unuosynUg ay) uw pansodap pun ‘jsL.d0J0a8 soIMIg panuyy ‘wosyoot “T *O
uq fig ‘unsiyoyy
UL SPUD) 02) 4) U0 ‘QEQT pup LZQT supah ay? Sursnp pajoaqjo9 ‘sa4o pun ‘sppsauru ‘syo0L fo AN.GO1DIDI

<<<Page: 617>>>

*339
ete eeoretseeesee
9h | L | g6c I BL6 PLL $9 £9 a 19
g 2 Wo sale NCCP TES OS® Jest Spee ee ce * Ee. eS OBS Sees ahs “ahr es SR LOD! Sameer | Sere SOT Wisselsejereterere erskenrsneioce: © oS0 tapes © oa pee Bipkenme t ee et TODS erage gece cee te» NOD Sy > Seer melee Ea 330. CP cee eneeeeeeeeeeeoes coum 1OqITy opseg eerste sss propepssure pos ut taddooa jo yainydns yorlq pue saddoo aayry teccereeeseees indsplay pad SuTULe}UOD plojepsAUy | Seo ree cessor escoes OOS] PIzBIIIGIq JO Ud A Voile Sie Wieis heise eo) oF elexeleieleeieleisis seisieie sie s.00.018 s+ 218 © SUTST IC POpIS-MISsaedS a) ay seve eessopressstreecleceseeeeneeecseneeececaecssurcerssesecessroptssesiserseeseseses 1OCT | ociSiauSie 958 @ ppoiennneceauene rad |W ies@l#: Xe eleer.sia/eneiee-seheleleielesioiessieiei eke raddoa jo yaanydyns yoryq pue ards ‘orRo ant g j eee eeneree ea ere ei ceyelere/ey | ‘reds ses UAT |
Leeann eee eter entree enero trees rien es rone st reteseeeeeeree es sory
atelorerere orsnelerscerseivsnse'ciee e's © Sey slew sire
sieleu charset emare-0exerseenegelciees* © OTS 2. Sok ee
tteeseesropresses
oeere eee eteae
sy cleye, oF else (exesiei0\.e 96 #02 uci: sel loho() )ereuescmec emer ai" 0" oS 9.* seers er seea tne Cong
‘opret e+
wo pstereiers “ops” Cre ee ee seeeee* t9dd00 jo qornydyns yoryq pur inds 4300} sog
Bape evaharetvete roid ovateiecaraetarervereiereigreraterg date rorgroteese {eats ole mir Ese sistsie-einin qavTosecetostainieielesen@irieireOGy
“oq oq | Sa 0) OL Ne hades hats i Oh aerate ee 2h) (| | soprr scree sisreeeeceescsececcereees igddoo jo yoanydns youlq Aq patojoo reds ‘orvo yourg | soprers sees Spee eet e teeter ee eneccersseeeceeresescipds *o1B0 0 qeddoa jo amy pus youl g
roprrstttres + sraddoo yo yarnydpus youtq Aq pasojoo reds ‘oyvo puv ssddoo jo yamydns yourg . ‘0g OCG. OS RR GUO 0 CORY A |
Vlioves(s! ever KO Ko" evenosyeye Bereje evel eofeya\e\e(ee" aye] s| si e\exeteye/s)(e) shear sene-eyelaretelie/siel*h <istexes stacy (iy
SLO Poe tar othe oF A ell ete orery Teren st on eve Tas ey eee Ne sete epenele XS apes DLE AO Pee ets ta acer gee aee eter ee
ropretets
‘oprettt: EGY oh stailevotetersteveieseione oysheoie
oe wee ree ees ce
So) a
eset nee
OP POU GL | ee ae ee re eo eC
‘oprtst? ‘opretts
ofekofernciensreneys) oho staus/eenerete’e 27 susi(yyjorereT®! ©
a /asifarey 0 olorarierene. sovetetelaserenelorosrtele net eveieleteleie rovexeloneisisinveverererayevens}erestajsur cytaurre QQ
mAstornsecnersseqeie serene. Bisise eLshsie/rennig) {)erenekwigiceselers
ZOprisese sere To psensverele
setae e ee etree este eee escapee sere Seiolelwiees srteeeessrecccreoeereresssaddoa jo yainydins youlq Aq perojoo avds -o[ey | Bie eit oo0:a hei viei 6 = vo'wiane «delve Migs ola 4S Hor eroic'fotviate: <The: elals Sisal walarers sinsialo’mis'eis Waleisiadieieinimice ove’ eins: oie niinreieielem einai meet | “og |
|ekoreretars eke he/sieveter stone eons) elnterels)oharerere).clexenetere.¢ er'eveiej cxeioXoler viekesorocene cron’ (ele mea ehene OC:
setae eer ereeseeeecreeeseoeesripds "O |
ronehectakelslee1e7 a o%a) *isleseheusienetmoreno(yiysre cel age
shencnesboreuere el ersiey es iex8 arr e/e) fe° ee) T) ur cfenckonce ekongs |e ore 8 Seren wre ene, SN aw ene we ange eee
opts: ssopreses
CB 0) VO MR AS aa a OARS Li CS Al il a acai 2 EO Set 7 GAO Case KO)
ce eee | eg 8¢ LE 9€
cree eee eect eee eee cece ewer tee e eens Ory
wee er ence e teen tne ee ee tee reece arereec cen eeeciserses er sists tOCT sein spe oe weet e cece eee seteeeeetrereceronecapds ‘oTey
sop reese tsees | | topreess ote ee eeeeeeeeeseeeee sands ‘ova Jo seyshio outy | |
TO poe eee reese sceeseresee re ripdg ‘ovo jo [eysAr0 a[surg
000) 0 eee | Siwilo’ ohefevove lnyelee Te eisioreley 67 #).elsete fale ce}alerata() [)Sfoie choise viens sat sate, chee (i
Sroprerstterssiseeeecsseerereesesetaddoo jo yamnyd[ns yoetq Aq porojoo ivds ‘opwo jo speyshig Peete eee enero ee erence ee spr eens teens cee sen cere esecusenssesancteessoesassessceesascreeeses IBdg “a[wo Jo s[uyshI
choy ele clele eneiertore)e:«is\sxel'e(¥iteTecolsieyyyriejexeca les \00:3)| S(ol4/¥)e/ehereieieere) sie=00 9 eiehse) a) 0) eTe/un,e/ersieheie cial es) eel iS Cte erie ease arated eeat OO
be ce co ce De ee ee oe ee ee oe ee oh oe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe ee oe ee ee Sad

<<<Page: 618>>>

*340
Suksisipsn'9: sis Talae mip ase taremede eek eherseaky San a MiaNer Sea 72'| =
eloFaTsBUEore ssriceeNUUN DEE ope ere sean||®
corres’ LOGIVY UIBA SIA |°
ZORRO DOC C040) a COO OO Ray
AUSHORS au sieietoke /oNeiny one je sre nekens sa Vousus’ f(y [pacers sateen te? |e
"es TOqIBy ofGRny Pe sesopeee crete
SIaseeaenmuogasay oRresetsib ¥>s(Greh Teivihvaya’s aegrypen eS) Ve=" arse
Steen ere eee rere cee ee cree es tQnrecteesee dle
Sheressinne tie (e7ei brave e aT: sayefe. Mute le ra euyyyy stele s1e¥etee}a
teeeropes rrertopr
sheane* a yao ene ereonorele
eee hor scar hensncl ospayernyrerese oF el 8 e¥sVeseigyryu ej ertio-e-r9e/ Cle
ghab-selerarcasloceicnropenerserexetece thc. ofe'etslyigvereveretewterer ss
Perrot teres ceeds eee rop: ress top
eamaeulcierele ie (erelolenexeln ve teow te jerersusrher() pprerastastetersl|e
Paomensteecougacy es bier ew exeve/eevenale rele geVenecyiynrensnesssiere: o°*|(e BOOS G2. S098 0.0°0(0) 91600-0010 OO Op PER EC DEAS O10: 24) 9)
tite eee sees eee sons
OUD S SORE IC O.0.5.9 065 1 SOSH OOOG Ic
SieR RRL Dese hic 2° 7.0% orn, cenele?.® Phe a Cyigere srere ns eXe%e| ¢ PEO OOD 2 SED GOO, ASABE OGY (0) 0 VO a Ose.
thee sop: tees sope
crue Mies Ao Anpaepeas one earl neres sien e rosie e/oreQyperenas oles wreseve
seer oe
ee |
sista she) +cat Tele satece ran aise’ ¥'s o's Se) eG) ysca'eie'e! «¥¥etars Hesiod susie © 666 Adit TOC ET Op aay 4°
“Aypeoo'y
ayxo[YO ut oddoo oayuu Jo ssvyq ee aa ee ed LY) LI 1 DGTP DMA Lay sete Mefeleiseyeie Unie nee shee ee eae peter aes S'S Cet TO MI TOET ul isddoo oAT}VU jo SSBTAT ***toyuounry pur ivds ovo opt0pyo jo propepsAure Surmrezuoo ‘propepscury viele Dales Rare t SRT E THAT Wes WANTS Telwening Geel d din NY Pyar ener TT gar weseseceserecere cess: saqIofy JO sa[Nnpou paieyjvos Surureyzuoo ‘desy, vcr ereeesspaqeurmassip ATOUy ozlLopya Supureyuos ‘desy yoedwos poureas-ourg Tsetse ss OULOTYO U9OIS YYSTT YILA poyvoo ‘ouoyspurs YIM poxtur ‘dey, CC i er ae) een Bh een eras re TOTONSOUUS yorduioo pet yireq veers saqtuoumnry yyiM ‘toddoo aaryeu Jo ssnyy Pessina Se eee eee espe ss ererteersone sarees ropresses sO Teeeeeeseeecees saqMOUINe, ITA Souoystiaa ut rsddoo oaryeu onyueq tee eee ease eee eee ee sope et eete eee riOpre esas eeeegness sees sO SI OICC THe etOprre estes eesoprse reese scone rssees sod thee ee eetea seen eee ee spree soos seeesonreseste es egpt cesses so Trreeseeeeceroesecoee sr QUOUINe] YIM ‘auojsuIaA ut Joddoo oAl}TU OAISSR IY *candspjoy por }IM Savds ‘oyvo Jo syeysr0 ur Jaddoo oayeu yyia ‘propeps fury ee ealele see ete ts oh sb ieae eens ote pores es ows VGnNTOMINEL Ul IBHUDOEATM A) eteleete’s eens tees e etree sees eeuee sew eee niormpsUIR Pay tree cree eteeeeereeseeseeeeeceeesoees oamoreut yy raddoo oate yy
ee ee ey
‘1oddoo oyvuoqivs Aq uaex18 parojoo reds ‘oyro yyTM Seuutoyeue ut 1oddoo oaneN WReFeie cb USS 8) CRIES SES SHEN Ned's Hp ss S9S Ue ee S19 OO IBE TOA TT Tad do OREN
seen ea suva'e evens 2 tbe sie cies eve tees entre seieseees etgnreseeteree egy
Petra ee cence te noes tenes ieee esse ees tr eeoereseQnr sce erreeeesoy
ote oleverecome()f)s_sfe: 0 sbeieteanter*Q (ay BES 2 COI PO DD OC TO OF COD AU EOC OC. OF Cc iia yea lian eail: isddoo oAyeN
PEI C2001 EOC DODD 29 AO Oe OTe OPES I AS Oe O.O ADO ORO TO GOOG) REMC OD OLED ROIS. 0 2 CEU E OCOD GOIN 26-0 OO. 0.2 OG ie H SHOE
Pa REA CO OOS 00-2209 COGIC ODO PI OTM 0) CC ON OGL O OO a]
OES TOI Coe AO 53.0 OARS OD.OD C07 7)
teen ero Prete eect ee eecreeesereeseseeeeerrgddos Jo yoInYydns yoRT pur euojstte A tecceeeseeesnorepsdure pas ur saddoo so yornydyns youtq puv soddoo aanry
sioner elie shar ennresouelonehe) “wowerens srenet steEers CY) =
‘uondriosog
‘panunuogj—wosyane «7° aq fig paj9a)}00 ‘sa10 puy ‘spout
eM ASE Sad Saal Sal Od Soll Salt Soll Saad Soll al Saad ll Sal Sl? O21? 2
iseor es
‘xoq =| ‘stratttioads
jo ‘ON
in Oo re
t8 | €8 18 08 6L } ' a | OL CL PL gy | GL
| “ON OAsSO1601
‘syo04 fo anstojDIVy)

<<<Page: 619>>>

*341
| gcE | SPI BSE | PRL ISé | sate OS | GFT bre [¥1 BPE OFT LOS | 6ST GLE | 2881 ILE LEI | O86 961 | 86 GEL
EE rgl
+++ suas 8, Sa[[ay JO Tauro ysaayqI0 N [eatpeeariecn sttese.s * abe Saaeae pepe fe wriegies 9 WATE pur soddoa oayey |
tate ne 3. Sp ie aK) | aR a rrr As) Se OL UNE LIT |
ce ee nese
rears)
sree reds sopeo Moped Uys ‘t9ApIs pur roddoo aaruy
pis tae Maasai sade cei 2 YOON I ao) aes COCO) ay
9c s9 ee sesgpe ss os eeNeGiiggy TFS 4S UDA SUBSOP] JO LQUIOD OMYPION [reeset eee e eee eee tence crane tteeeeereesouoqsuioa ut taddoo oan
‘es -aprusiyd Aq passordumt toddos jo voxyins ayy, *oytueryd wt soddoo OAI}UN
re eT Rpt tac ea ELS eta b A COROD TT
Teeeeecerercoccoe* -guojsuloa ul roddoo eAlUN
CK) 9 RCL ip A AR EO RR NOOR ESIC OCS RO AO HST) PERO IT ay 9 aA DIUONI OC
Stavelnw iol eKe\sxese cerecuyaiphaesejese.®'*) © e/()ins sisis'e"e sie "eie| pre.
iagsenuie Moeinngs® 2 = eei-Seue geet) 9100 PS8 CT) ele) ee eLe ere zere ie le | Sies 28 (0) Pie era/ elites se) e(ere revere eelezersseiceleie:eleiekeiee,
i) oe
SOmmnmamey
Ce ee
Seo ete eee eer ee eerrreessene
frie sisiniees 9 270 et'ehisianle’e’s s topes tonsitie oe. Fh Ones s cee penis tiles ss ag wrtreereeccecesceeeecreds ‘o|0101¢
ss __
SToEe pete cicle envio eit siee
‘opress
¢ Hisiseleisew © eeifne esis sie sie that gn: » + « eierercee evecalens cyaleherene oehelate: Shovere seeeeee reds ‘pea jo speyship G £BS Lol BOC OICIOUD I CDI OOCOCCGUIC ) SauCn OOOO) GOuinnC inn cono ccc inc i sislovoisreles *+ aedspjay por ut saddoo oayeyy ¢ | gc 961
Ter tr eee cree eecuecccreescoprrssereeesiesraddoo ‘qivo useIs jo sjeysX1o ouYy YIM Saplxo pot YA payvoo raddoo OATPVAT c 1S
EF OT OE DIO RRO EEO LTO Ve FRO eee ee tee ee cer nese
opts:
OO SEO SOOO EBC OL a) POG
| ager ¢ 66S | ener oaisele' e's seietiaidiaeld fP4 e008 toddog OAIjuuIO SSUIA, Cc 6IS | EBL sidik dssisa ina ntweist an Adds wagne ately ts ene 4 fc ee
Heese sroprerteeeeeserog ¢ Ie tat se esands ‘ovo ut saddoo aan : OI¢ OGT
rimncedies sane cibeieid tes siesin el tsitieren/sistois 6 8Gne 6 Se SOT
ee ry Ce
ee ey
chasers Sfoneere int sexeieie sus cyselee suesnthiys°°
I Be I SOO ODO FES eee eee ere oreo essere seeeeeteoaneesereaeesreee
TOROS I Me OIC Gf oS Fo Ay eo eee orci Se Sreieisscese lei ©) sacicuciouelel? 32° TRUS: 201 BO! DU adc OGRE AILCINT c c c FIS SII oe ry “opr . Se ODS EI Ui GEES ENO (HO PSCNC COO O-OO'O LGV c €1S LIT Sbehsaraneieccn scarce cscs ees ne @ 8 SeLeCy Tye leis . Seveieie Sicpieieieisise le leleisi tie s\eicese @sreXeie felexerey SIMON dau leTadd OOsOAT}e NT c BS OIL
BE Oi 2 010 8 SIG) I) P22 ences. eel OMe | #0 ie ‘oie spiei0i6) 0\e) e10).0) 6,0 (0\pexei exe ajiese eleva {e/arelae/eitiolexeie\siehereieleyens
teeeeeezirenb pur ayluoiyg
tote eee eue ee se eee sta
€L STI ol aa VG aa £6 Goll GG II IG OI 6EL 601 BEL 801 LEL LOT 9€L 901 CEL SO
oar ore — amg esters ean | hone’ © cope € ,ee-€ ice ie ie/6 10 ee seis oleae srelere, o)ia.eAnllenelere:cuslereLeqsceteeiate
sttee ees rgneees Tao o.tieleve sine ie\cleteisiereleutsvsloreze Seve ccccecwes
(0) ** eplxo por yA Saytuatyd pur zyrenb ut zaddoo aayuny Pete ee te ee ee eee eee tee eesgne sere eeess
Teste eeesecceeceewecscwoeceeesseziitnh ul caddoo Aun *“yulod MEUOOMA YY JO 1OULOD 4saMYII0 NT Dishes ties is eierouseseie\pielneie nishostiele iehelelenes0}e sete: ODTXO Pod UIA Poruod JOddOo, OMA UN
sa ar gst oR oe Me en el ee a ee OIG Sik eae aaa Tat Map fee Nee Gus eam Ne oaesemnler Lohse e Feveger at) fuera one eters eaaay
sssicisibicieieueieiyeiei®
PH etree ree bee ce css ae sess aQne ss
Ce ey eee eoe
I ORCS OTE IDO OD DOM D III Ot) OU GUD Odo org)
teeeewee es sgumounry ut teddoo oayeN
SR a Ra ea RB NT BO BRIO IIT 0) NRO OOO) OS BCE OSCE GY Gf
eee evee
POI i PO aR PDR OHCs} | IDO
mea Secs ese dt a: eohees Pe 0y nus CaRK@rClPLUlO)T) EsOc8
DDOODDe ater

<<<Page: 620>>>

*342
‘op reds ‘oyeo pue OUIIOTeUY YIM oJLIO;YO Surlurezuog ‘auoysulaa ut raddoo oayeNy *op* e eeteeeeevee ee eee ereeaereeeeeeteeeee “SWOT PUe YY 8U0SULBA ul zeddoo OATPUAT toprrrtreceeterssssreceeseess scigddoo Jo oyzuogivo uaeid YM poyvoo Joddoo yusose10qry cor? Vere ees tise se tevcie ne gsc cobe sate cesissinmeneena sense re ceceese® IadOD quaosetoqiy ‘opr ec er cece corre tres teeeseeceecresseeeessrpdspray par pur ‘auds *[e9 ‘op’ Peeters tees eecgpe sere tree ropreee rt etes sod
‘opr settee eter ee eeeeesereeeceres ssaudspray pad pur ‘ueds ‘opvo ‘aaddoo oayeN opr rrr stessseceeeeeeoeooereeeece ss OuloTvUuL pad oul Surssed oytuoumney ut taddoo oayeN KGplenr ice) eleisic s|si0]~\0Siae e/eiajoite eisjeiieb’sis ec eleieinelentottegatin pro} par pur ‘inds * YA Stoaqis pur raddoo aatyeN 70) a secre ee serereeeesesessindspay por pur saddoo yuooset0qiy sh Of OO Rae eee eee Oe eee SOPs = © ct OD iicanerr een |e CT}
s[eq siaddog |*** ++++zaddoo oATyeU SMIUIeyUOD SoUOJSUIBA SHOAIOTLO MOAIG ZY SVT
SMe th esti Pa| eee 0.54.8" © vioe. 67600 8 0¥einip eia\erereiBfe'n aveieeiesesieiares<e-r0\8!* SiS ceeehee Races AO aa ecigy
scg SLI £S9 LLY RES OLI LES CLI 96¢ FLI ELI GRP GLI I8 TLI O8F | OF 6LE | 691 SLP ROT LOT
| 99T RE | cot LOE | Pol IGE £91 CGE Z9L IIS | [91 OI 091 606 6ST g0¢ ) iggi | Ler OLE | 97 CLE | col PLe | fS1 ELE | -€GiT 19€ | @&I 09 | IST 6L | Oct QLE 6FI
| RPI LET € | 9fL
Ht Ht HILL Ye] OP) Ye)
ae) =) o ie)
Se) ot fp) R oe)
aya alcsacsin > 0°4| sparse vesng orn 6 ae") oe) eiey'eie 6m oie Fisle eis Ts i 8e eee Lielsinis (0 ocean BAsKereinieiveie, «00.6 01n)e' vereiaveranarial Megggrere Syrmie ere. clare *osie 65 ¢ are bie sieisie severe ce e008 2's cect Sec 80:8 6 oe Sale ener aie OD een ai see esau UBIPUT P[O Jo tau109 METS YANO 3) COM] Se cS a i a ia a ser eees s TOUUIUIVY-IlO}s UBIPU] ciaislaraivcleleselsrece! sie! o(e)/s\e) eee eleeis: sien iysie.sissreusiare.s\ were siereln ej oisieteyetnlie seteteieyo/eetelie:aleneteneiy exene'eene e.esensiai() eprielaaessle xe loVctecelelels sieher seis vieKecolclee() isles sie ol cleg oie GT ONO OSE TTe PII 0 0 OL ENO ORES NOG E BOR IECY SEA REO 8:40 per yuan ‘QuOSUIOA ul xzoddoo @A1yENT
Waster er aiein 'ens cine’ <0 s\e orie © SetQiye te tease Wajov bet oslo tens s As vlads lees ocie se eine soja ag elas mele sade bene cin ste OGD
oheboarexotee oxsicie so) 00: ns) 9i6,'Si0) 2! 9.0 eC) Ty egniereicakeonege oye '®) 0+ vee excielexaysiene cee ecensisy tne 2 eashoseseie) s' eid # c, Sieheso oe Saks ouoysuaa ut toddoo eatyeN
seVataroleplezezeieressselsieie e7¢/(e) nlaeKeieisie, <eypaiei¥ole o eferere}e0.eiei#\eis"eie
Senin. LOA. sen jo I9UIOD JSOMYALO NY a ae ae aga beac ener ee acer etre ete eee esgnr etree eercleseeceresestreectrssceesssecscusereceres sosescinds ‘oreo ut taddoo aayuN fo eee sees sene nse sere tcc esignreecscccsslececsccesssececeserersecevocecsossoooseseessoes coqitgIud Ul Jaddod GAUN Sie eralene 9) el eUT OIA aIPPUN jo Iauloo JSOMUIAIO NY ee ee er Ce ce (<] ‘ovo Ul jaddoo SATYE NT sielexeieieies\(ersenmperngenesgerer® o1eei89.*, 18 Qpe.2 ¢ 2° .e'e svereieie sere es soqtuaiyd yim aoddoo aAtyey
sreeesssutoa 8, AOT[OY JO LUI09 YOMYION | * ++eeessguoqsutaa ut toddoo oArye Ny
SD OD OD CD OD OD OD OD 19 19 19 19 OD OD OD OD i tt oO
19.1919 mo
| ‘xoq |[‘suaurtroads | ‘ony 08 “AYROO'T | “aordiroseq jo ‘ON jo ‘oN | -satso1g
‘ponunuog—uosyane «TQ “aq fig pajaajjo9 ‘sa.L0 pun ‘spposaunu ‘sy20.1 fo ING0)DIDY

<<<Page: 621>>>

*343
ere eeoee
eee eeeeoe
"*(@UIUT JO U0W40q)
‘Op* eop'« ‘op:
‘op'' ‘op'* ‘op' ‘op’ ‘opr: CI
‘op's ‘op*sop'* ‘opt: ‘opt: ‘op'' ‘op: ‘opts ‘opr:
‘s]peq taddon
‘op'* ‘op'* ‘op'* ‘opt ‘op'' ‘opt ‘op' ‘op' ‘opr ‘op'* ‘op'* ‘op'* ‘ops ‘opts ‘ops ‘op'* ‘op'* ‘op: ‘op'* ‘op': ‘op’:
Det et gif RR eg en ee oot SS Sn NBICTS pe SU peda OD oO DSOLOCIU seceeewecescrpds “O pur reds ‘oreo ut raddoo sane HHO rere sseeteeestopeseteces secs esoprer teens weeee ero SH HOpt rt tees seer eee stopr recess cue cersopree te eeeseres es soc dave aiokepefelenisix'a}ot¥ aI #uisie|ois deiwia\s. § Ralsth Se'e's\¥ie th 4.6 64 o'0 6 eTEdEt OHO DUB Joddoo oajvu jo spvyshio pue rvdspjay por Sururequos ‘vit0os Surquiosas deay, epereeereeeceeceeees saquoryo Surmiejuos ‘dvay ut saddoo yusoseroqie pur redsplay poy
OID OOOO i ao PPD EIILA A) ORCI SOOO. O00) SRC RO DCO OC) 819 O00. OT O-GCRO. OOO Yea
OO ee sere tee eeetesresennee
saddog
Vo Sees woe wae eQpye # alee 8 WaleielereleQiyt ee 48 o!6le's suelo ee eG 's 2 seed sce K8ine KOE
Tee eserropeteteee ees es cones steer eceeersoneestsceeeseses so Totes eeroprse seers sree esape sees ees esessope ster eseeee sees tog
“UAB UBOIT puR OYpIvYUOI] YIM Savds ‘opRo Ut LaApIs pure raddoo oatyeN wee ee cer eceeetinceseeessesceeveresceeeseessgutroayd ut soddoo oatyeN CC er a Y *-reds 5) ts) pue ‘OUuIIOTvUR faquaiy tee seeeeeeerececesesotiina Ud0IG SUIUIe{UOD ‘auOysUIEA ut teddoo oAeN “sere ectqive uses puy reds ‘oyeo Surureyuod ‘auoysutea ut taddoo oayeN *ieleseiaisl aisle clei se eee selec ressievies soles ss Teds *O[VO SULUIEJUOD “OUO}SUIOA UL 1addoo.oATT Uy
ey SIPIOHay ee 8) Bare’ stat shale ol aeate etna tie taterceln ems aivel ounwersie Sa tavern eter tevare afer yyeieintete comtnrele et gT
These cote ee cece esse cece es seer essOpe cess tees te tpeeseciseeec copes cesses ce sso
treeeeeess nds ‘ova pur oytuoryd sururezuos ‘ouoysutoa ut 19ddoo oatyeN Terre ess SUIT JO "GIO SULMIRPUOD ‘9UOSUIBA PosO Ul oUMTo[VUR poy
Pies eee elee ees ereeereopereseee es eeeectQpres see eerieec eine re teesercees sO
POD ORIG BEOO. O00 FOODS 0.009 ED UN) TOI GO OOF OOP Cc ye A IOLO OAD DOO O00)
“OUl] "qIvo pur azluaryd Sururezuos ‘ouoysutaA poaroroo yySip ut toddoo oatyeN
eeeees seer rere rere essere ssocc es soeessrindyg ‘opRo pure amM1oyVUR poy seteeereoees sodAjosout pur swiloyeur poy Stree te eee etre cceeeeeer essere s coniiorya SuIUrepUOS ‘dey UT sUMtOTRUe poy Tete eeeeeceeceree esatrggsa1ogin—ivdsplay por YIM ‘ivds ‘orvo puv ourtopeur jo s—eyship ‘ayoTYyoO Sururezuoo ‘der ut ivds ‘oyeo puv ourloleur opt pur por Jo ula A Stee ee meee were cesar eres ereseseseseseeess e199 9ATPPU pure suo, eUuy
eeewes eeese ee eeseeeeee
Pheer e eee cee e tence eee e eee e eer te es ee er sees #* QUILOTRUY fete Tee seeeeeeeeees sr ommopeue jo spvyskio ouy pur soddoo oaryeu pozipeyshig clot Peete ne ee tee eee eet re ett eee eeteeeearen cree ee neces eer ese QUILDTRILY
Tete cence cece nero cesses es ensQners reese cares canes seceeceees tT
Treeeeeeeseercereesecaqrzoryo Sutureyuoo des ut redspjay per pur owiopeuy reeeeseess OUTOTRUB POL YA opLOTYO Hururezuoo Souoysuiea ut taddoo sayeN vreeseessreds ‘opeo pur ounloprur yim Iuds -oyeo Suruteyuoo ‘euojsutaa ut taddoo sAWeN
a a oe
Ell Sa ll Soll Sell Ooall Sood Sool Sel Soll lk ol Sell al ll Oo OE OE a a
869 L69 969 ¢69 v69 £69 669 [69
069 689 889 L89 989 G89 $89 €89 689 189 089 6L9 8L9 LLY 9L9 GLO bL9 €L9 GLO 899 L99 999 ¢99. 699 £99 c99 199 099 669 859 LS9 9¢9
81% LIG 916 STG Lats E16 rl ae 11%
O16 606 806 LOG 906 [0G £06 £0G G06 106 006 66T 861 L6l 961 c6r P6r e6l G6. Tél O61 681 88I LET 98T Sgt fet est 68t [gt Ost 6LT

<<<Page: 622>>>

*344
error eeee
esos
se eersttgy
*AppRoory
C0) ae “Dps Sse teers
‘op’ eete ‘op’ eee ‘op" eeee ‘op’ eee ‘op: eeee SOpamec™ copes
Aurduroy u.19}S9 MY}L0 NY
stoprttsseses stoprttteeees iaddoy asoqy
stoprrttssess
‘opts ‘oprttt ‘opts
‘opts sop ‘opr ‘opr ‘oper ‘oprtt ‘opr ‘oprtt ‘oprttt ‘oprrtts ‘opr ‘open ‘oprt tt
s[[@q sed
eee ee te ee eresessteeeessee
eee eeeenee
eoeeee
-doo
eee eee
ee ewes
ee ease
eee eee eee
een eeteee
**‘asoddeviy users yYySt ‘auoysutea ul taddoo aayeN hat eR atk) "etait Gah 0) Oa eit hd We MEME REL OY (yf Pees e been ee esopee tsetse sees sopers tees sso ‘(asoddeay porojoo-yrep) auojsutea ut 1addoo aAyeN
Seer gia inte ogeens ee ene ee Orege or eesO Dame snc meena OCG OE Ne BODEN 0 1012 UO OAD LOL YOY | SIE) ROG AT ABH a a ELL 0 | 0 fled EO OM LAY OY afeheNeteleltese a eepenrgeys ce eee sere ee = 8S Ope a prec O)
BOP IAIC OOO 14) 0.0.59, 00-9 OA RING oP SOULE (7)
wloumeraxerechere (nie roles vere stews OUOISUIOAV UL zoddoo DATIUN
Pees ee ee tee eee eee ee sree e ee errgne settee ees tO
Teen en ee teen eet ete eee eerste w eee nrrone see see ee es 6OT
ee cee ereee es QUOISPUBS UMOIG JOVdUIOD OUT
Ce eae em meee e eee w ee rere esse asr esse eesesesresesssossseseses orl
aAlyeu Jo s[vyshio ooivy Surmoys ‘1addoo oayeu payso0yuos ‘Ayjouy Jo sseyAy
coal Mareieioralsxeuazoie, Neysle/rotensiaoleneleynrehsrereysyerexerenbisy dYeleree (1) nee hemes iene ee Rea Oa]
sec eres ever ese eee sin wees ress eeeee (ueuttoeds poos) aoddoo jusosaloqiy
ie ferulsererereteheteis visite s)e exexelre eysivre) el eleie erslereshery c\vierererse se te mremeraeem rs TO Ly
-voopop aue[vos oy} Jo suoleoytpoul—ieds ‘oyvo pu seddoo aAryeu yo syeysdiy
eete
ee se errs ee IEATe Tosi serele c/n fvelerere “vos 2)". ORT UOULLLGT ul qaddoo BAI}RU JO SSVI eo ea seeeeeerpds a) fs) qian Talis eAUN teecereeeeessindsproy par yp “reds ‘oyevo ut taddoo yusosaioqiy ‘sees propepsfwe uo redspjoy por pure saddoo aarjyeu pozi[eysA19
OO: CORI Oo PCC OA HOO. 1.0) DOC IOCI6 0) pO GOO OLY
eee eee
eee eee
eeeree
eeeees
eeeeee
shel tereze stay e@ a(eraielante eels tse (eFeteres vie teens nets rer T) 2 © ct eeereet sO (ef
seen e teen e etree cnet ence enna sree seresesignres reese sso
Stace ete eee rnc essen reese saree sree sere essone este ees s1OT
Ween e teense tree teen eee e nearer eres seer resort sees sto
Sek eee crete eee sree een te eee e erases teres rrgnr etree ees tog
Sree eee te ee eet cree tne eesee eee tee see erronier estes toc
sheer ee eee esos eeeooeeesseseeressiuds “Bo puB aslpAvyuod'y
SiaTeveraeva'e: syaileeie sieves! eels ese ela Wee eies o/eeleleru\e tale ster e ote ae OC
bee eee ee ete eran eeeeeeeeeesressesesse rgddoo JUaosaI0q1y
“woz dose (J
tall Slt Sor norior icici hel
ooo ol onli oon
[Sade Salle Sal Goad Sel nal Saad Sooo Sea? OHO SHS OO Oe 2)
*xoq JORON
LOS (0S OLE 69€ GPE Ibe Ore GEE Stet Lee [L9 OL 699
9601 SGOT PoOL
PPL €rL GPL 1624 OFL R0L LOL 90L GOL POL £0L GOL TOL OOL 669
* suaULI joo
| oeds N
‘panunu0g—wosyone vO 4 fg paj9aqjoo ‘sa40 pun
‘sypsauius ‘synob fo angojnIng
6G 8G LVG IFG SG bvG CVG GPG LhG 0vG 6&6 BEG LEG
"ON @AlsSa1 801g

<<<Page: 623>>>

#345
pre nemererenreMetonone ls KeALiel Cyrene
‘oper:
selsienaiypeciessexessiexene
settee se eeee ee rtonrssseesese
shelsnesueseneuciceiel*.© 2.()1ys1e\*'sieie'= (eel
reese topeses tresses eropress
se eee ecopresreeeese
rire ee sropresteeeees
toprrsteesess ‘oprtst ‘opts ‘oper Lines ergpe scree eees rises ee ropess tite ee ropes ‘opt ‘opts
stopres topes:
skotel vere rs foxcioeiorerexore(ryeteseroTesele tery
toprrtisseees toprrtstseses "OAL of.dRT]
Piet sees essere soneeeeeerees
SpeReRe ein oreden soya ke xekeyase reremere fonexene™eigiiye zt
eee ee eeene
‘opt ‘op’ ‘op:*
-* Lueduiog uvsiyoryyl
Stree e ects cree rape eeceeeces
asta] ‘Auvdumoy w410}saMyyto Ny
srerorstekeneforedde feitedatetecyryare rererelele 20
DCE A 3% OC a KOS SCOUT | 0, OOOH SOL
e199 ee eo cee
Pitter serene esgpee erasers
COO iC O C0) 9 iG
smo ye
eetensle exexele s\i9)eeiee e006) ele: ¢ebenis execenversiere eee * "GOSH YIM pozvoo ‘azuyord oumoreur ‘redsplay pay seceveresees {rvunid uvy} osnjqo o1our deds ‘ovo jo spvysAro pure redsploy poy
Siaroiarsiasieie siereve Ts SHOpt ese tsee teres e sto
*+opte tries eso
Puais sae 9 n8iAionb 8010) 8:8 044 4, 4020 \8 SIR oNSHRIR 0 ieee SNAA,S A 8e. P8208 NODE 8: ts Neate. ane here) Sch anaeraT
so eaeeecereereoes Ce
Fee eee ener eee eODE etree enon ene tees teen ee re et tee eet er eres eg sfetefatel**/ an TLO UO Suriwnuos *propepakure ur oyuyard pur ‘outioyeur edsotey poy Woes tease eeees sree se etgneeeeeees so reese raqroryo pur redsploy ttt ee eens erence tee eee ceeciee cece eeeteen cesta e eee e rere es OOISHIOID
III OO. OS 0.0. 29 DOPAC DOD 0.98. OC 0000.00 0.0.0U0 COs: ai o)i astual'y eer “og “og NGA) 50.0, 20.0.0, GOKDO. Gy Fry eetene tare lsap serew sere anes ee ONTUU OIE pur Ivdsp[ay pey Cr ere | * raddoo dAlyeU jo sleppnog aVesorehes) eveiteackrore! heres aepeseel() (qi cote eee ere eee ee rndg Iypnqe J, eve le hele feito TeToy'e Foie ov(evfol'eleh e venenels eueye lane luxeleietepeyavs.0va/efevninsetecevelesieveerere cin ut lvdspjoy poy
ooo yoo
aifee, seleve edb ee eee sets sjelvele cieielsele @ terres spre eseteee
Oe |
seers reais pu soddoo aaryeu suruieyu09 pierepataiy
aoe ote ile Ceteeletoiteseib tore fo tte TeVecolae: cession ciel t/a Tersts olen stceleqehsrs i ole tharos een uloc si teereeaeaan Gl
orevieel ates e)skeXolerrosemvevererenesteveteinwertone Teerese sreveisieisyerste TOCCOO TOR OITT CEE Oe [el
PIII DIO B:0, C02 D000. COCLOO OS Cary PAO QOCOOD DOW G09 O4ay A)
0g “od SS A LE NOR EEE EO g(0 0 .0.0:0-0.00, 0.0 C2 )-0-0OEY IE Ce eC i a | *QUOISUIOA Ul jzaddoo jo qornydyus yorlq seseeereds ‘oyvo puB yytve UVdLs YSIN]q YIM euOsuIBA Ul taddoo aAtVVN seeeesees qnopidoe ut raddoo oAlyeu Jo ssvyAy Teer eee ecco ceecoeo ress orTNOUINT] YIM OUOJSUIOA UT teddoo GATE NT ‘e+ (goRjins WO yooF ) “yPeYS p%Z wlorp) ‘ouozsuTsA Uoate yYyST ur toddoo aayeN Phebe ee tee ee ere eres ere reese sieeees QHOISHIOA UOAIs JYSIL ul daddoo oaryeN Tree eee eects coe ervoee rescore sees -GUOISMIGA PIlO[O0-YIep ul Toddoo 9A1}BN trererececcscereeronsoss qaoddaiy polo[oo-Hivp ‘auojsuida ul teddoo oANBN
eeoe eee
ora e eee DiN(9} 07202090 0.0.00. 010.01)
ba all ai Da a Ba 2 i A i i i 0
oO OD 69 OD SH Ht
lov 00r 668 866 LOE I6€ C6E yee G6E GbE 16€ 066 68& 88E L8é 98E CRE PRE 68E G8E I8€ O8é 69§ 8S¢ Loe 9S& 896 LOE 99§ LVE Ibe SVE Pre EvE G18 IT8 90S c0S bos £0S 60S

<<<Page: 624>>>

*346
ss seer per ‘gg Sep ‘g yd ‘uloa raatr o[3oq *OPRT ‘AON “WYlip “g Sutuodo ‘roars o[seq “"LPST “8G Avy ‘g gid ur uleA ‘raat o[sUy Stab ciate slat dovewslatel deetal av cvedtate' cfelag mel evel slevere eve
Lee eet teense aren rope ee teeees ve tee cette eens esoprreteeeee
fecrees UGA SOM SIOATI O[SeG
sisteleneqeniaerole,'s. 44'ej'eis' «ese! sislohvletelcyrypyere sorely s7®
Bi. 07, 000.9, O.0 00 30-0:00.).02 00,00) OOO COORG
Shib0.0, O01} PTO OE. OLC
cher shenenuistonen sn cierenensinzarey cies esters e¥elQyysye.© seared
stopretceseee stopretteeces roprrtseeeee rtoprstereses topteteeeees opretceeeee troprrtieeees stopretteeees (0) 0 Stoprettesees ttopretcesees toprercteeee roprrtseseee sroprrtterees ttoprrrseteee
Fe sopresseeees ssropresteeees se OAL opseg
seeeeeese ss qguiqeo Joiadng aye] plo ‘oytpreyuoe, yyim Jaddoo oatyeN seereeeessecqguiqea Joledng aye] plo ‘ivds -oyeo yytm saddoo oayey Te cecereeceeeceeeecesesqauigna 1oledng ext] pro ‘ouozsutea ut taddoo oalyeyy
al pieyststakeerel eres sv_orercinjese Ha Stet ch eee SnaMaamG) |) orn) pc eLer 8 am Mend -eRSMeL eee sae eUiels 0) (af
oifelene okete, deh! oTenendanelsRoissexe iti secsmsne (|) tere ie’®. 909 yore) svn onege oheerene’ eLadaeeel RUC) G4]
reeeeees GOlROyIyes Suraays ‘Ayo11va yos ‘yysI] ‘ayR[S oUOFT
Meese eee eee rere etna eta tee ese ee see esate ese eee sO
teeta eee e reste eee sine eee tee eesseeeeee ees IQUTUITY UPIPUT SStOpr etree trees scopes rss e stesso eens sto SSrOPt ete etree eee tOpe este eset eens tenes sro Peropresstsre sree esopr seers reese sees cog PesOpr ere sste reese sone eect cree e renee es 10g ‘zyenb Sururejyuoo ployepsAure potopoo yep ut raddoo put «daqIs AVN
[ieee cere este e eters tenes cee eOne eerie e cess erOnttetee sere te ences sO
tleeeeere ee ee erase eeane ig elec ie 9) as EI OORT 7) 9 ROR COOOL CA BICOY Gh
tereeeeesozarmb Sutureyuoo propepsdéue patojoo-yavp ut 1addoo oaye Ny
soecteceeseoeecsoooeese e(dpay SUIUIM WO sjustudely) 1addoo saqeN theese eeeee eee ssoatroryo Surureyuoo desy ut zytenb pur zoddoo aatyeu Fo speyshig tlre eee eeeseeur es ss qronida yytM Joddoo pur Jaapis sAyeU Sutureyuoo plopepsdury **++*zaddoo pur rahe SATPLU Surureyuoo plopepsAury Meee etO pert tee cette eect tren ee es ree es tO treeeseereeessraddoo aAlpeu pUL ABATIS OATYLU SuIUTL}OD ployepsAmy t]p sees eee eee cruds sorva pur Ssaddoo oatyeu ‘aedsplay pot Sururezyuoo propepsdury [eee eee eee cence eee teen nent ee Oe e teen tase sere en tee eae ee ee es SOT [ese eeceeeeseeeeeeeeeoresssauittasyd pur ivdsproy pat Suturyjuos propepsawy ‘}+**9ures oy} Jo speysds0 oyNUTUT YLM poyrod Soy[oYyTp dAIsstur pue Ivdsplay poy slo eee ese cececccseeccsscesoecess sdply UdaId YIUp Ul opjoyjep pue iedspjoy poy Slee eer seeeereeree eer eereteaee eevee ee 0 0 | ea a aed 0) 0 Lage MB SO CY (IT o}IOTYO JO saynpou surmiezuos desy uo redspjajy poy |e eee e eee en ee cee ee cteeeecreeecesreres segaingtyd Aq possordan raddoo aayeNn sete eee creeeeeereeeeeeees onary ut saddoo oayey
sles eer e ese ee reese eesteareee
“AppRoory
‘uoydiioseq
‘suowtoods
6L6 8L6 LL6 OSL 6PL SPL LEL | OFL | 09 ‘sa40 pun
‘sansa ‘sy904 fo ansopDIDD

<<<Page: 625>>>

*347
OQ PER ee EG Deptssne ss eens Oo) oe ne 9) OS 0) © Fee a Le ey SOPe sie’ s see Co) oe ee AES £10) oA ee A sareenelegen ere ere ase!) 6829). 8XS/.0\.84),0'85 252° O cheney C2) 0 ie 5X0) 07 a OS BQ pkeseenssetnere's
Peete ee ee tonre ee ereees
see tee enero eee sgne ese cerecs
>: Aueduroo uoysog wz sings}
eee SOITODIGNT INV B.OBOD
SOO) Da
Siexszoteoexerelszeersferenascueregelereras s/s () |} acre oe ecs)°'= ©
reer e eee ee entree eeeee ee er SHIM AA WO tebe eeeeeee se SSUSHIp TOA OLE
SoCo) coc
Wrasouelslereceusicerelinrereiee,siia)e.0sveis) 9.2/9) “G)iy.0: 8:8: 9180) S.ta®
seeeeceoeees WIGA JO OPIS JSOAL SIOALL OLD Scere ceeees & “ON yid SIOALL a ‘TON YU ‘eal apsug
OU RIDMOEEOOD DO COG Tah | ‘g UUL AA ‘IOALL apsey | eher ceive e° Gol ee: exe eles esen eres ace 020 res eee TIC 'cG “AON ‘deep yoo} ELT “q UUTAA SIOATI OL Seg
Srehenterevede rele vehedebesest se cezel® she ieie sie seenener’ 2 TO
‘qdag ‘deep yoo Op ‘gq UUTAA ‘IOATI aLSuq
susie res Orne eerepeyere Optie)® 297 sks seas iene erence oie ce seueie'S* OCT
Sete tere eee eOne er tee eect eee eate eects ee sng ted seeroresecevoeseee Iuds -Ocolescnuseis sre sankey -steione.*i4/( (ip)
Seite late/'eep elise’ ete st sia erovewnetalenedeeyer spel shee rexeveje.ce”eichsicuc eiciels ccc sefomenensexsncioi cre segereuere@ (iI
settee eee ee eee eset er reese eeresseeeseees ssigddoo Jo o}VoIpIs onTq pur uwaeLy **zjiznb Jo sepoos pur soyeee Sururejuoo ‘piopepsAury Fee e cree cece cmmeecereeereess7ii~nb puv AUOpa[eyo SUIUIv{UOD ‘plopepsAulry ee ee er ee ee ea deay yordwmoy Peete eee e eee tn ence tee eee eee e een en teen eee eee ee En eee eae ees HOKT Soe cere cane acer es cere rccescteserrececereesesoec secorEGE UpIM ‘plojepcAWy beeen eee are tenon cena tence secre eessteeseerees esoqitkd WOME JO SLep[Nog fee eeereeeooeees STOUIULY GUO}S URIPUT oy} Ieau punoy ‘toddood 9A1zLU JO Sse Dente eee e eet e eee e ee ete eee te eee sOne eee ctse cee tensceeseeee sn rg teeeeseeeessraddoo oaryeu jo sopnpsdure yoojsod ‘propepséure ut saddoo Sant settee eee eee e ee eeerecreeereesecessessszaronh dq possordun ‘raddoo aayeN tee eeeees sgarroryo Surureyuos ‘ouojsuioa osoddery ut toddoo pure IoAqIs Aye NY
pceevereetanenelenedeneiorolerwierensneenasaie sus exeieve\eecnssen uesoneusersne*) A OUIGUD rowadng oye] plo ‘jae users posodmooop pure weds ‘opvo yy ‘aaddoo Jo yornydyns Avy) ee ee ee eytuseayd xq pessa.rd
-unt iaddoo ey} Soytuaryd opsopyo Surureyu0s propepsAwe ut teddoo sAtyeyy Dene sree eee ceeeeeeeseeeetecesececretiseseocseess ouityard £q possatd
-wit seddoo oy} faqtueryd oysopya Sururezuoo ‘propepsAue ut ataddoo oayeyy tere eeeereeeeeveree se aqroryo YIM pazeoo ‘dey uses yep ut taddoo sale weet erence neces ee cones esse rteec esses ccteereeeeseees es qQtqTd
Jouedng oye'y plo ‘sosseur pue sjooys uy} ‘des, pox yarp ut roddoo oanty teeteesqoutqea soradng eyv’'T plo ‘sjooys uy} ‘des por yrep ut teddoo oatyeyy
Teteruescerreceeeeres cagmiqes oledng eye] plo ‘inds ‘oreo ut saddoo eatyeNy
soe ee te eee rien v eee rete tecs sees se mat Jowedng eye] plo ‘iaddoo0 SAIL NT
A >i
AM iAige
ba of
ee i i le io
oocoocon ee oe oe eo]
L6P 96F COP vor f6P G6 T6f 06h 68P 88h L8t 98f CBP PSP €8F G6¢ F6S 68S c9E v9e C66 G66 166 066 686 886
LOE 9SE ccé vSE €S& ese Ice Ost 6PE RhE LYE OPE cre bre ere GrE Ite OFE 6EE 8EE LEE 9€€ GEE bee cee GEE
SCE Fee

<<<Page: 626>>>

*348
reeseee TTY Jo apts yynos “TIF reddog
jo yynos
eeereeeee
‘Auedwo0o uojsog WW sangsjig seeveeeessariul ET Isuloo sta
-yynos woay ‘Auedutoo uojsog wz sinqs}}ig
eevee oere
ysvayynos
OO 2100 OO. IRIE CE S.Ct 9 HOODOO OL
teeeeeeees ap JAMO] §1aUL00 ‘kuvduios uojsog wW Sings}}tg
Bia seteleashsnsloyeskuate Texe va/0)ersFsiere eiVOMC CN OTOULOD
ysvayyNos
Sesser etree cern essere ee snr es teeress
ysvoyNos
ystoyynos
ysRayynos
‘furduioo uojsog Ww sinqgsyig
ceeeeseees arp JAMO] §19UIOD ‘fuvduiod uoysog 3W sinqs}jig € ON “Ylrp Jo yynoul ‘.1au100 ‘furdwuioo uoysogq 3 Ginqs}3ig "LON ‘“[[IY JO wi0}}0q ‘41au100 ‘furdwoo uojog wW sings}ig
se eeeereoeees Q “ON “ITI JO doy ‘a1au100
ysvoyynos
‘furdwmoo uojsog 2 #.1nqs}iIg **JQUIOI JSRAY}NOS WOIF SoTL
ET [rey woy ‘kurduios uojsog wz Sanqs}tg
Wicuava chosecelvieersl*) 0: e\0e)0)#)S 20-8) 8s ere 0G )eceuake ere caee
ysvoyynos qsvoyynos
eevee eece sees cues eee eteoe ee seccece vee eceeee
"s+" ** INOJ YIP Jo pus 1au.100 ‘fuedurod uojsog WW sinqs}ig ei scvelel titotedsle's os orleGiyesielaisientetere seees quip soddn niger tOatOS ‘fuvduioo uojsog wz Sanqs}ig topretetes soprestcers
EF UOT OSE IISA 0} 0 SR CO Chskeseeicneteie seekers £22) ¢ 8G tyes: = © nigvie-8i oreo ener e ous eokenee e/82"s 82 Q1yeie.eve'e*e 0 os o)e ecuatenesmieenerene = ee.0.¥ 1 Qe ee 2 ee eee
*> Aueduroo uoysog 2 Sanqsytg
*Aypeoo'T
eeeecrees
eereeese
oer weer tree eee
ee ore eee ee eee eee
ee re ee es eer seeeee
ee eeore ee err ee eeeere seeeee
eeereoe
ee ee)
tee e secre reese reee
Ce ee Corer eee sees sees
ee ee ey
re ee
seeeee er ey
Ceo ee re ee reese esr ee eetesene seer eserece ee weer esos ee er ease eesene
rete e ees ope
ever eres
*** ieds
‘morydtosaqy
*ayltopyo SUIUIL}UOD ‘dey pet yep Ut reds ‘oreo pue z\1vnb JO UlBA ese reser ereeb sewesesseeeens ayo] yo surureyuoo ‘dey Aes qysvy
seeeereess Cgorzezyeyssio Jo savy ou) des yorduios uaais eaval ad ‘sapis uayoo48 ‘dey ylep yorduroy
seeesernds ‘ovo YIM ‘asoutSuUeU JO opIxo youlg ‘o[BO pu ZyItnb YIM ‘esauLsULUL JO apIxo youlg c
sreeceeeess* opuerquioy pur ‘ivdspley ‘dex aurjejshi0 ueais y1vq Ol
er ey eyaorya surureyuoa deay, 6
* OULI[ JO BJeUOGIBD JO UIBA SuUIUTeUOD syvoyY 9
ees aq oro Suurezuoo ‘dey umosq yard
4 Peete terse sees eres so 9 * dvry ourpeyshio uMoIg Yarg 9
“+ aqttoryo Sarureyuoo devay, 9 thee te ee eee ee ee tees Og 9 9
siesierenee sR Meat oople Gl wo teen eee eee ee eto 9
treeeeerereesstaddoo jo aynuoqiea users Aq po1ojoo yooy 9 steer tee eee twee ee tane reer erate eee e sere setae SOC 9 treeeeeeeoees NoIBlIIS pur pozris ‘auoysputs Sututol deiy, 9 Wee ee tect eee eee ee ere eae e nese ect eee tetas OCT c Co eee eee cere ce creer rer esereeceevsovess ipilg ‘OBO GAISSRAY c
“xoq JoRON
‘panuyuog—wosyonr EO ql hig pajoayjo9 ‘80.40 pun ‘sppsaunn ‘syoot fo mndojning
056 16
c19 bd €19 619
609 809
LOD S09 v09 eS GES 86S 66h 86P
*‘suounoeds JOON
69€ 896
COE pot £9 oof I9€ O9€ 6SE 8st
‘ON AISSd1BOIg

<<<Page: 627>>>

*349
*++eequiod sodser vay st eropre steerer coreceees cquiod todsur
Tee ee eee rar eer eeeeeesereesenyysesesseese c
shelerslotelisineis.eNe.iae)'sisrheberenengensje©"® V()4) 9 6:6) <'5:'<87eieNs
SOILS OLEH 0b s1Seiesier Cs One CRO ICE RONG 32
O70. 00 20 CID COI CICCOLO) gf FDC OO.G
PC SOLES COS OOO Oa CHOI ODIO 9) 01 ORO OU CRC
terete eee sope
MOIA “}IPB JO Yl{p OULU BLO
BOO GOS SIACHG) 1}. ri eselomelsuaery Ops isser
089 QUIUl ID
tte tees eer eee mee sees sec sgneeeerirees
OC ORGO OD PCO TOO GOTO 0.0. C00 2.010 ji} URL
fete tees reson: see eeee ee eran: tees tee ee scone
O01 7 -290°0. 0) 00590) OSE ECC AIO ALTE 00 La EMRE
Spsemmrccacasinds os cyoger ace cuss eecseiele seeing ryarere © 3/6816 8\
se eso enee CORIO OOO a} eee ee ser eoee BOCCONI OD 0} 9) eee
Sete ee eet eect eee eee tee eee egpys ‘roqiey taddog ‘purjst s,.10}10,J JO ISOM JUIOg Stee ene cetera eet ee ee eeersonererereces
berene costuecarehselererexeresle eaGtyzie
“opr BEROCG} OF HOLA OOO
OT CCG O00 uO POL
seseees joqizy raddog ‘yutod s, AvyzT Cr ery * Loqrey taddog "oseree es TTY 30 apis yynos “Ty taddop
jo yynos ‘Aueduoo uojsog 2 Fnqsytg THe et it eee eee e recites ener es sOneeseeeeese re eeeereeceeeeeees THI Jo qIUIUINS ROU ‘yea wor ‘urdutoo uojsog wz Sinqeytg |
Oe “*** ayes UOIIG pur oyIYM Jo vlovaIg
eeene
e@eoecereoee eee ee eee
BECNOO R00 Cr Ore Oc al eeeree COIS YOY p
sreee + zaddoo Jo sasstul oS1v[ SUIPIAIpP UL JNO pastyzoUr suiddipo jo afdureg tee cecevereereececeeeerrs apIxO pat Jo s[eyshio snoiqy pur raddoo aantn * Inds ‘o[eo Jo suoIpayoquIoYA paylpout pure zjrenb payepnonjer repnqey Asniq setrestecceeeeeresszaddoo jo s[uzsfio pur zj1enb pozepnoyar rvpnqr}y Asniq teeeereeeeees iaatis pue toddoo jo sjeyshi0 zyaenb poye[noyor rvpnqry Asniq vrecteseessssoddou oatyeu Jo speysdi1o [eipoyRoopop pur seddoo yuoosaroqay
Ea RMN REIL NONI OO LS IO OCC BIRO ORSGE CET La by
pue qaaqis jo uoyount) seddoo oayjeu Jo yooys osre] Sutotaid soaps oAWeN
oeee
rere crads opva yyim ‘s[vysfi0 zy1enb Aq possordut saddooa aatjeu Jo SSP IAT
see eee ee eee eee sete ee soee ee otro see seeeeeeeoseseeeneee
(yy1e9 Used
eds ‘opvo) ouoysuiea ut saddoo sarjwu pur (sooard oS1ey) 1o0ATIs oAVeN *** (czourqeo 1tolwodng eye] plo) yoor ojopida ut aeayis pue soddoo oatyeN
** + zqy1enb pozepnorjer rejnge} Asnap yA 9uOysuIOA ut Joddoo aAtyeN
sreeseeeses zarenb Y}IM OUOISUIGA Ul OPIXO YoRTG YIM poyeoo zoddoo oayRA
site seeeecneeresecetaseresoeecoossoses rodg “Q109 DUB O}UOUMUT]
ANG a eta SIGS 9)» REN LOR AER LO ION OTY CEA VG
CSE A Ga SL It 0) 9 TS aR HM ST SSE II VOI
892 0q tee og ‘opts 0G ‘opt + ree sog
FTO Deere teen seen eetQDe este eee etna eet ee euee nee iee eee OCT ‘opt
‘ope
‘op:
"OP 9*y°tet S020: 8e sexe Setecesciene
‘ops
stoleate Prete ees te nese ener ro
eeeee sie) torsiexeiexenie/eisiehesexehewstO (or
OU IONE SOIOOM TORY Gi
‘+ ayiprvyuos] per pur ‘avds ‘ovo ‘ayt10 S09 94} WOOL, SUOJsSpULS polei[V eee ee ee ee ere eee ee eres eerste eereeeses * pezt0jU09 ‘auoysputs pero}, V
streeeeesoesraiIOryo YIM polyoeds redsploj pat jo Suijsisuoo yooy
DSI CORO 07,0009) a MAOIST I SOI OOO ROIIO OOD OTF KAY |
SOP eae weisie isis) se) pel stuinarsieleieaceishais
*+*+*Sutpsooid ay} st ourpeysAso os you ‘dey outppeysdao u901s yIeq
PLP 66P SGP 6601 LOT €C0T GGT Teor 0GOL
6101 810
9TOL LIOL e1v colt If 816 L16 916 S16 P16 €16 G16 IT6 O16 606 806 €66 GE6 166 0G6 616 109 T6¢
STF SIV PIP €I¥ olf Il? Oly 604 80F
COP. por €0¥ GOP TOP OOF 666 86E LOE 966 c6e P6E €6€ GbE 166 06€ 68£ 88e L8E 986 gst Pst est
e8e I8€

<<<Page: 628>>>

*350
eee e ee sesreressres eee eseeeerere
eeeee
eeree
eeoee
eee ee ene eons
eer eee ete eer seee
. . . . . . . . . . .
eee eee
eee eee
ako) op ay OF eae
sreisisheke"OSUY (77 \° PIO) TRO E IO
& sKGO ppraeegeiezens) ot*\0)*
vq MeueaMoy *
seer ee eegpe secs receale © Desieieie's soppeerseensiases|° |
sees tees sop:
se eewee
teteeee eon: cele *-op |
‘op: coe
‘soprrttes *s "sl ojeg |
Sts sO ppciciconearsi® sie
tt eeeeeesopersteee cece
“*'***UOlPBOO] UOWOY |* TT aag 0) o he eg de ee bok et
Petes ee esgpresrseecess
SOCITIOOG 0) gC
**s+quiod aodstr tvan °
teeesopretteeeeces
SIL aJag JO YJNOS Julog |* teeeee* Fog sly olag
oe see ee wees eee eer neee ee eee eees
eeoeeeeee
ee eerene
eeoeereee
eee eeree
ee ere eee
eee we seee
cee ese we
eoee
ttre ee ssopes teens rod
eeee ee ee ee ee eT) eeeeeee see 9 q108 ‘Lord So} u oe spe.» 0) ene asalissmiaieniaioleisiae's)9\¢ 2 <4\ei© 9 win aia nivale se PTT ORAT nO NT
oe aed ape Ope eee Bees OCT.
tee eeeeeceeetseeeeserescrssesesereesss guoqspues LalF pur poy
Dette eee te eee tn seen seee ere reece rece sessee ee ss QOISpUUS OUY AA Tien ete e eect e secon es conurs OFM
Sui uv Aq pepunodins yyeyo pat Jo sprorsyds suruiejyuos ‘euoyspurs Sarr
treeeereeesevrpys pad Jo staXtpiequl YIM fauoyspues AoId pur poy Sicies si eeieieg.oie siciseisleisfejeicls cic sisicieirio# s\s\*.¢.* GUO TSPUES,AGIG DUBEPON ee ee a | ** *paure.d-ouy ‘auoyspues fairy
Dette ete ete eset e eee e eee tadstp sere eesssouopyo sulureyuos ‘ery, sjcie ee.9sinsicie se °* °1RG8, SO[ CO TOLSULOA, OUIMIE{IOD. “der 7, OTC ONO ROI CO OU TOU OIOONOU OE ROWAM NMOL
eee eeeerons
IDIOT EO COO DOR CLIO OOOO I SOIDCEON OO. OGIO NOMI IT (ay Gj
Steen tere ete eect ee ee erse sees sreeceeseceees sui} IBULUN[OD
cee ceeresercoasecessessipdsplay pad JO SuUIaA SUIUIIUOD Sivds ‘a[VO
receeeceesseeressrinds ‘ope Jo ulaA B SulUIeUOD ‘dery orAydiog cece ercerscepesccsocccsesercoereoeccoss cece spy [eprojepstury Steere eeeeeeceree ere KAD [VUIAJXO UT aPIOTYO yy ‘dey poyodg cee assis * U1) AB[MOISO |
wie eu jee jeieide ee isielens a \eieisieie.e.sieje # sc) svelvelsieteele sie ST1 OS DUPE DUE dvay jo uolouns
#'S:ee)o ieke ee eieseiaie@ieie/ Sle eeiese eielssis ele: efesionea.s/.ceicueiei "21s S01 01S pateipy
wien ie aYelsianore}eisicee,$zeie)¢() [ys eles)" meseusieleisie Sexes) ptieicaraceie one: tance ee OCT
see e ee ees ee roprerseeeeeerecterssopestteesessee se ceees soy
*(‘satqqed punos [[RUIs) ‘auoyspuYys pue dvi} Jo LOISHy WOAF BILOVG
oie. eeteie)eie)o0iv/0\6:e)2)9: #leive eevee etic sisi sinie sieeisiencevaie * Sere er Ons melncOGy
sete eete cece sree ec te cesses esteecoscrsesrreceescdury oiyusydiog
stelul io eiee/oie\o'¢/0: 0.9.0.8 s)aleeiele 0 4/¢0/sieis0.0.0.+ Onesie ¢Q pas < SeeseOCT
see ee eee ceree rece cetreceserecssroresss Qyls Uda PUB IPIYM JO VIOVdIT
Appear]
‘ponunuo0g—uosyone *E°O “4d Nq paizayjoo ‘sao pun
‘uorydii0seq
+t tON
Hott SHH HS HIS HOODOO SS
*xoq JOON
“suauttoeds
‘sppsaurul *SYIO.L fo an.50]D1D)
Grr Ivy OPV 6b BEY LED 9EP SEP ber cer GEF [&F O&P 66h 86F Lov 96h CGP vob re GP Ich 0Gt 61P Sih LIP
‘ON @AISS91BGO1g

<<<Page: 629>>>

2 it eo
*301
freeeeesyoor oleg creu ‘Og pur ‘6g ‘8S ‘8c *(qyoqays Iveu) Hoot aleg iveu ‘og pu ‘GZ ‘Ez *8G
Siaye'siereraserssisienereiejeiserenersiee*\* ne
eves
Fete eee eee eee ere es cope
SlezerevaFole/sisioiaperere;vevershens7e¢h ys
ee ones
seanmeoe
eee eee
ceeee
eeeee
eoeete
sisverele sieeie ++ +op:
eee eee attene
Steet eeee eee one
seeeeeeeyool avg avau ‘gg puv ‘6% ‘8g ‘BS
“yoo avg avou ‘Ng 68%
orelsiereclexerereensseisleroksionpcise'®
sisexeisinve) ezsie(eheusledatyt):
sere ee eases
susiehereuscelseiele.@ieteCt)t
‘op:
Fete ee seer eee ron:
thee eee sere scons
Settee seco ee sone:
‘op "ZoOp°
Ferrers eeees sone
FE OIG UR TOI LCG} og
settee esse es sone
OI BOE Eee SOC UCT oa 0
POSSE SIGHED) 4 * 8h 2 9. SEAL © Set ERE Sas Seeie piesa ie 25° gheketse och puee eee eh OOBIG UT TAN
ee et ey *aOUVZANS uo Axayurpds syvoiq *a1RIs pow
eee owes en
peutof oz140[ Yo pezBoo-udels ‘a}¥[s peyvinpul uv eq 07 sivedde sIyy, “ey10[YO cent ateteeceereteensteneeniseresesanssreeseeeersgnserasesescees tO(7
sere tresseeeseeescees sees soecacersesooe sere saitIoryo Ysa peulol wlooeIg ste easeierereveneieie sevevoneiejeejensieseieciuthe cievinge serie QUO SPURS Ada PUG Pal. poyeuiar | y Freee e seen eee etee sence se eeteeeee se seeeasweeeeineoee eres -OUOISDULS Pay
SEL SOAS ASH O aS BA BURARL ORS BUS KSE ASE pe re te eDe Es HELIO SIS) DANES SO) 98 08 ere eee eke ese RRO Cf
. ee weledesele Ps eieyerezeovereyclerssrersrersierer* QUOI SPUUSEA OS)
oe er poses eapivinsaicesraciesisieisiey® si Opis s'e)4 +: °'o sec Silene oe ete eee neree eee ertooe VOP piel eeraisie.s slexsieress OGM ee eerste eeres ee ee ee oeee NT} IO OFA RIO ORO G
roprrrtrestsssessrog
ote tte eens aeons eee s ea saseuseetecicos eset sess cQneertersse cee ess Oy
SSB Sa8 OA8# ohn) #8 epee leis exe rskvanintie cues escele 2.0 clare Shee OS DUS STU OLY Ppoulloy ‘todsuc sO teehee tre sera cesses easier ese res tgp ress essOpresseeerer cree e so Sie ieesieicieisi cose e| vieleel eis csietiee eee setTgoIo ‘PaUlele-OSlEOO ‘CUO SPURS Patel, VY. Peeters esope reese eropresse secre ssopts erste teesrope rr settteees HOT streeees-ugads ‘paurnis-esivoo ‘zywnb Jo UIdA B SuLutezUOd ‘ouoyspurs poleiROS SuIUTe{UOD ‘paAoois pux peystjod oovjins ‘paz0}U0D 07R[s WOdIH puR peyY
Ous7sio Rese hele.eiiek sieueNehciok sie) Wise stip siecle sakepepors en0-er ene tee eeueeC) Wee * 8s 2h kO
PIERS Kese.se er lOyeNe terse © \eieie, Creat SLs PiekeKe Sse ke ieNry Sena Pleas eel ere lc weinue. )° hedes on sea as dO Digtcwe city socal O (i)
ea a tal AD MM Raed TC SC BP REYES OF BIRCH TRIES ROI 9 a FO OLITIE CY (1
i Borkeorkor)
996 $96 196 £96 696  SIRI eee teadece’ TORO 0 ff G2) usd01 suiureyu09 ‘QUO ISHLOA ul teddoa pur IOAIIS BATE AT
Tepasonennsezenerecseieis ele bextleaaevexehotelie( i) sinie:sieiele/si8/e)8)'e'e ¢.0.48)\0).¢!6's).n |) sere erieiris.ta0.8 (0 oqegeenenactiee eca:"/* O])sie eco nine ele ere [ele 1c gleleueee ce kay
19F 91S e9P GIs @OP PIS 19F a 09P oIg arg LT | 1¥9 Org 0r9 60¢ 669 806 869 LOS LE9 906 969 |» 0S ce9 FOS | #69 £0¢ | 669 BS
seg 10S 6SP ons 8SF 66F Loh S6F ch L6P cop 96F +SP CGF €SP P6P Sh €6P Ish G6P 0SP 16h Grr 06r SbF 68F LYP 88h OFF LSP chr 98F
Peete meee ieee ee eee naire see sonscressnecslesesesiarerssecessrecassracesinecassesronesesereeeeesonererreseeee scy
*g 003 Ib *g *N ‘Aueduton uvottetuy yWoN reeeessreds ‘aru yA fauoysuraa ut toddoo ostyeny Aisce puvlccieNeuselaseyerccrsi\sleenese:tseersiQ Ts eccere cele |s: © ibis -sisree 819 oaks c-spsrecieven\s e7e.0:0¢:*:* QUOI SULOASUL taddoo oayeN sececerceseoe ee trpdmloOr) ULOIOWY YON Gisieleiels es ierenexe,ovelsexe) ¢\9\e\ 8 eucejaie = irl cele elaeieeie lee) 0ice)¢0\0/°, 00, e/einisiecls caccn on Osa ALTON Peete eee ence ee ee ee ee en en ee sgnretetereesleeseeeeereeeeeseees sgapis-tlayals SuLmoys ‘dex uaorq yep ut soddoo aaywNy 00-00. GO 0-0 LORE OTE TE SOOO CLO C5 7 DOU ODI Et pec cerccececscc cece seceesrecere sees = *OOIsUlOA USdIG JUOl] Ul Jeddoo CAEN Pee e sere cess cece cesses sees sonresesereesleeees aonduioa AOA des} ajopida Suturejuoo ‘des uMmoiq yaep ut soddoo oarjyeny CONG) TORE EES IO OREO Me ECE OT ESTEE 0 Oyo SORA IS EOC 0 fos ON OE eae 0) 0 uae aed AOLICOY (| seer etree reer eee teres sree sonreesiseeedeccerseores UIDG useIs pue ‘aytusayd ‘zy2enb Surureyuoo dey ut raddoo oayen secccereeeoseoes Kuedmog Suu, Aounys cieiwielsiein¢ieieie sie) #eieie (ais, e1gie\ eles) 49's/0'si#10)618i4 se2 Ons silane saissii(\iye.s/s.e.° sie! sie ¢-* (77 seen eect e eet teen teen iOne etre eee tees cerseseeseesereescrsseses sovopida SUIMIv}UOD aUOsUIAA ut 1addoo aAlyEN miabarehersinjareiets se eetecereccccteeescoceseertgddoo aAljeU JO SsBIl teeeessrrpds ‘ova YUM auoysutea ut taddoo aa1zeyy tereeeeeerss ss oqtuaryd pue reds ‘oro yy ‘der ut saddoo oayen Steen eter e ne etQ pe teres tet e eee e eens eee en ee eetne ce cuneeee er nastareeeeteteserecerieares tyipg usai3 pur eptuaryd ‘zz1enb yim ‘des uMOIg YAvp ut teddoo pur JdATIs EATEN Stee cece sree etree rere se signi errr eceesleserereeereeroesesergitiorua pur Ivdsplay par Sururezuoo ‘desy pepropepsAury Rs PO OOOG Cece reas bores seterbecewersscrcosdpy anuAydiog AID II OO stress sQuOSuaA UdeI9 JY SIT pavy ut saddoo oatyen wee eee teen ene e eee ee eso et tee eetalee eset ener er seeecetreseserersoesoecees sdpiy repiopepsdwe ut saddoo oayey
See eee eee eee ene eestor essa e tee ecesleseeeerererenee QnrecsererOprertessseeeescopressees topes esteses sO
eee esos tee ttene ee ey
Ce ee SICH OO 3S PO.O CTO
sise:sieisi*hs(} i) scenekelewei ers eds oe tee scons
ecueMevuvecvuovounststatas Sy
skasiohe/oisie(\y isrehclel ele \exers
Pere eee entree eee eto tt teeter teeta cece eens esopr essere Opts tires sess seropresseessopersress sess 0d see essoqttopyo Suruieyuoo ‘dey propepsAure ut toddoo pue JoATIs 9AIWe NT sesoprreeetesuprestesstopretse ss sopres ess topes sss ss ss 0g
yiive useid youduroa Sutureyuoo ‘auoysutoa ut toddoo pure Jayis oAtye Ny reeseeeeeeeeeeooeers guruyatd Surulejuos ‘ouojsuted ut Staddoo aAIUN
eee cen uscet sn si ckene.t Sciese'*' S424 iC) Ty aie)” especie: ave |e, 0.8, '0i8 @ je':0:6/ 0/08, ¢028).0 ee ee wee Ba ee et ie eames: an Dr ches t= ineriae etene 2
*auojsutaa ut Staddoo aatyeyNy
eee eee etree cere ce ICSC a PCR ASO AICO MOCO UHCI |
ORES EESI ICO ICSAC Cay SLL
D: 0.0. SPURT OCD STEREOS IORI SORE} 0a
G01) 0.0.0) OD: 0A OR FOCI CTE CIR) oF RIOR
rr ei ee) prolniesesezslies si (ty sreve evonecrecerelleysxae ee sievajeincusssojeis s05%st/o)sk*censebeg ery
PO C1 O08 0.00.6 OOOO SUDE ODT TOE a ea ME
DORIC SCS eC SCE LOCOS IDE SC AICI IT OCR RCI | ROMOIGOGG GIT SO Oay g |
see eee eeeeestaddoo OAT}U NT
slehexele (ee icsers cen atenescopsieiels_ealio( i291 GT)s/° e\s'e +e
sececeecoccerees Kupdmog sutuly Aoumny
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . « . . . . . .
a a i a i Di ls ol a nia ia a lm alia iS =)
| —°xog ‘suouttoads “Aypeoo'T “uondioseq JO “ON JO ON
‘ponurjuog—wosyane * *Q 4 fig p2709]]09 ‘sa40 pun ‘spnssune ‘syoou fo ansojnID)

<<<Page: 630>>>

eeeereecere
ee ey
FOOT ICCC. OT CH OL ICI AUP ORA 0) oj AG
tale epezelexexeneseuonnaie = eiaisy aie\<irio/* <iQtyeyezs
eeeeoe
oereee
eetereeeneeOpe DIOGO OL MO of ofp SO CEOOSHO 0} 0s
tree eee espns sees eres rope Heese ees ope
‘op:
‘op:
sense rop:
eevee
‘op: * op" Fetes ee ron: tee eee ee cons
teeeeees Kuvdulog uvoloury YON opti tttetesreseseesopees
Peeeerop treet rete treeeeeesopees see -oas ‘ab ‘Aurduiog uvowowy
socceeeeecees Kypduloy utoIaWYy YON sere soas ‘ab ‘Aurdmog urowewy YON
NOG OO CIOOD OOO ROO ECO EICROI(G) oO
cocreesceeees Kuvduto0g uRdewWy seee oas ‘ab ‘Aurduiog urowewy
Paria orenetenenedsjorsiexsisie,erelelovereiedesie ty sree
eee seer ree eee seer
eee eee
terete eesonres
teres ee erope tt tee eee rope
‘op* ‘op: ‘op tet ee ee sops
Sree tree se cece tee ee sees sgne
eee eerweeee
‘op: ‘op’ onesie gi0/eseh¢ Oye OO ROE (0) 01)
yy10
secre ccesereecoserececsvercraiskia zy1enb Aq possoidut 19ddoo-oatyeu JO sseyy
rere sszaddoo aalyeu Sulutieyuoo Sands ‘o pur seds a) ae)
opts tress eter escoprresees
Heese son:
eee ete eee eres eee eee ete eee ete eee ete e eee tree see ees tes
sf selec: ene s © SOG, cee eee eK IDUL
id uvy} osnjqo oom ploqmoys Jo suoyeoytpout ‘saovy paAmmo—avds ‘o[eg streeeceeeceroeeersiaisAIO [[VUUS Y}TM poysoly s[eysfio Jo sovzans $ Arvurlad uvy} esnyqo oloul ploquioyd jo suolyeoytpout ‘seovy poamno—ieds ‘o[v%9
Cia CRIOIIOS(G} oO sielssiedelelelecpsisncseueee
wisieys pielieie "sic Qypsiexe rete: ceceienusierereiec Qf) sieisrone rs
wees copes reeeesones
“oq ++ -0q
once eee rercoprercrcitessaecerOpres etsescavescesOpe serececesc sees Om
i ec (00°08I—ST'00T "qo Sere), ov) Areur1d uty} osnjyqo o1out ploquIoyt jo suoljeoylpout ‘seovy paAino—aeds ‘open
dip tadaois v sayey UIDA OY} a1oyM Soul Jo W10}}0q Wo Ioddoo oA Ny trreeeeseuqiva uaais Jo ATyedioutid pasodwoo ‘auoysutaa ut saddoo cae nN
tereeeceeecerreeosczirenh SULUILUOS ‘AUOISUIDA U92IS YyIvp ut 1oddoo aAlyeN Treeeeseeesees supa UDOT SULUILIUOD SauoysUlaA Ut Jaddoo pure JVATIS OAT NT trteecerercececcecrreeeeccrnds ‘oreo Sululeyuoo ‘auoysuraa ut Joddoo oaneN
teres seserooeescosozyienh Suluieyuo0s ‘auojsutoa ut 1addoo OATYL NT te eeeeee estates udats pur ivds ‘oped Suiuivjuos ‘auozsuraa ut taddoo DAIPENT
coe e eve ee ee seecaeea cree seseesscteessesessee cess stigneesertesees sO
MiptetaiWere!s eaieier*-dfee:ererals san Bees ace ge cbtigie ocr Wie ere nels) “eter ese sS SO igseeet maerseareL LOE
sete ee ceecececeeescoscscoesseressersers se -cuoIpayoquoys aynoe eds “ole
eoee erro ee see eersesesrae ‘ands ‘oyva pur oypAydody ++ **(suolpeyoquioyst aynov) rvds ‘oyeo pur oyy! tee eee eerope eset es so ++ inds ‘oreo pur oyypAydodw
terres sorny Supquiasal ‘azLIo;yo snoiqy yA poyeoo ‘des, yordutod use1s yarqg strc ecceeeeseseg ere tscccccesrcserccrosesserers ss crodgpl MOlak pur oyesy
Deen reece este ence eee sree entre sere s estas serene signee rere teens SOT
See e eee eee een e nessa etre eerie ecsewsse tessa nineeerianeresere tees tort
eee ee te tee em eceres eo ee eee
eoeee eeeseee eeeee
recto eeerereeeesergnreteerseeee soy tteeeeeereseeriuds ‘oreo pur oy[[Aydody
se recceorreccesvovesersraddoo Jo oyvuogies YIM ‘ouojsuIoA wt raddoo oATyeN
SII IHIIHTODDDDDDDDDODDDDDODDDD AGAn HD AMAarN an
GL8 tL8
€98 GLL 99L COL POL €9L GOL T9L O9L 6SL 8S) LGL 9SL coh PSL €GL oSL TSL 699 [LP OLY 697 694 897 LOV
Mis. Doc. 24—25

<<<Page: 631>>>

Ube Ua gaa e sslee etek hese sia eisliggy ese. tt 08 . **yLIp yytou ‘T ‘ON YRys fourpAy UeIMeYog |* **qtip roddn ‘TJ ‘ony yeys Sour, UeIMaYyog |* Peete sete s cress serge etree esgperseeeeae els seeeeeeeeeeeeT son qyuys SaulpAy URIMLeYOg |*
“aL0YS BYP uo ‘Aurdurog so1edug oyey pue uoysog |:
ceercnce Fees eee ee ee eres egneseeereecels
eee eeeee oe eeeee Sis oe exe ppernicia*ne eichesells
00 010 00 CO DIOIDI GEER ODO IC.0 COO O(0t) CORO GG
Peete eee ener eee ser nese seer sone erence ceils
BIO ICICI IIT O02. 10 RON 0) oO OR TORSO
seeessKuedutog Jowedng ayey pur uoysog |+ "Lp, “uee SuleA Mou ‘OulyA, UvILIOWIY YON |"
“Lp, ‘Ajog ‘TON UIAA Soul, UtOOUY YON |°
20 00 CODD OID OOD OG O06 SEO DOG) ay0 serene
Peete crete eevee nee ee eres cones Prete eee ete eee ere eee eeeesgneecsseeeeele Petree etree eet en sere se ee sopreseeeeeeele
PUSMATpeRS Sueenel 9 ne\es eas i01ehesexeseoxersiekeyeis () 1 remeieeleisie.||e
teases ron:
reseeesoprerreseeedle
reese e sone ete ceeds
trees cope rete ee rope bets ee sop: Peete ar eeee seers s cout UROLLOULY YWON |:
ores Le these AP he rican urueaeaedeneisiohers\eiee! Lt) #:()1)9).0,9 010: 4.707) 6xal(s
seescccerocesee Kyvduog ULOIEUY YON |:
OC MM ARON nes Soe OR EC ICBO Jee Ot CECI Nat BE tes Bt ICC i PTI CIC I Ys 8 ORI BC il CO BOGE Ws a} yoooreag St eereecesececessreeserese(vuvq UO a0 HuryIoM) 1addoo jo yornydns Avaxy Sentence eee meee eens eens tenes teas eetreeseieeeeeensOnt eres eee sto
DOCU DROOL CCL Ay») WUC COU 00}
tesereeeses roddoo jo yornydins Aer
sess soqutoue ub Jo pray oy} oyl, pedeys (1odsvf) ouojspurs posroye Jo o[qqog
Stree eeerecopee esses se ieeeessopresteceessrer ee ronres testes e eee sso
teers srog
Petree eee ees aqrtopyo put yytvo udeIs Suruieyuoo ‘auoysutea ul Ieds ‘ovo Jo UIAA Ul iaddoe aman Petre tee c esse eee ee teas eeeeeeeeeeseerceuseesees sonimtasd YIM plopepssury PaaS) Keke ayaa COO SG Gy POLLO me een Ta PASSE Ee otal ete See oes eee 2 me ctu panayUr deiy jo suraa wo Suyqieu Surquoses ‘yoor Arodsel ‘yy Sip v £ ouoysuyaa ut taddoo oayeN Tee ee eee sen eceeeecusceewecessraatqua oledng ayer] plo—oyeuoq
-180 UdIIS PUL IPIXO pot YYIA ‘aeds ‘ovo pur opUYoId Fo utaa ut 1addoo OATUN, yourqvo Iolledng aye] plo—eprxo por YIM payeoo ‘auoysuiaa ut saddoo oanty treeeeceeesezqainnb payenoriar fvpnqeyz ‘Asnip Hiss ‘roddoo oatyeu Jo s
loner gor) 19 19 19 1 uD
*xoq
GhS |
Its OFS 6S
€h6 OF6 6&6
[68 b68 £68 G68 [68 068 688 888 LL8 918
*suouttoads
‘PONUJUCHO—QFRT Puy LFRT supah ayy Gurinp pajsaqjoa ‘sao pun ‘sppsauaue ‘syo04 fo ansoynyny
‘ON DAISsal 501g

<<<Page: 632>>>

10 ee eee eee OD es wit gas ts |
ojo je).eiereleyelei by Whee (sa; ere Xe\sterersieiesenege sO [seme ee eee
Ciskexersicesate s eieeseieceo ee 4TDe (OS): OSG. CLOUT, l. beet e ee ae eee eneee seen seers stops eee eareres
seeseesssulaA "G pur ‘N "09 a[9_ Vl eT
sloaeriey sieitaXe) eiaheleyeieioexer ete eleyeleyereerchonels
eee ae ee teeeacevesseccsersersoprecacineeals see ee ne en ence trees sees ee stoners rsreess sence ee tee etree eaten eee nero see stre res seeeeeeeeuTaA “AA puv “Mf OD ATO Pl ov'T | se eeweeessugA "GS pur ‘NI “09 a] \
FO OIC IOO COTO, 97 CCF O00 00:0 (0) af OSCE
Seale [ovie,elevecensieze: exe, sieplaasns szeeislelSineaG) De = \*seeere 2.6)
been ee cece eeeseeoeeres saipe alfog Bl OUT *
YPN ‘SON ula s, AoIQIg “09 oT]og ep IVT * “**yglip YOU *G “ON YLYS “OQ offog v] ov]
oie jolloxeqe lorebelelexe clots ollelelnersseieve> “nt pytert: 2nre,e\e ©")
eee sap you *T ‘ON UIA 60D a[og BI oT |
**4ylIp yyzou ST ‘ON Yeys 60D o[[og vp ory ° bene te eter tree ee ects ee eeessoneeeettee tee pisievorstesiexeyeierso} sie sien 9s0i* ersze eusreruC)peiereeasieeie.e:sile Seen eee eee e etna teen tne esone teers eeens
| Aap eons exons! © ses easiekenese! esclleiexe iene pe oe7 ere 8856918
sprue siehs UT OA “M pure aC | ©09 a [9 1) | Bia | |" Peete eee este ete w eee ree cron eter trates Pee e etree eee e sere eres s souTt UBTUOYOY
te eceeeecrree carpus G ON ‘OULU URIUTIYOY teeeeeeeees saivus Isp Iveu SouIUL ULIMIEYOg Senn teen teen cnet tne ee ee ee tonr eee trees. seeeeeesTIaA ‘AA puv ‘YG foulUE URIWUAaYoOg |:
T321990.0:0100: 035, 0. OiQG0AF BOON ROSE HOO V0 NS TOI
le | le
Tee ee enter eee eee eeene sees sane erences
eer ece ROT0'0.000.0 GOO DDO Ta OCI OL0OI Oly
"soul UPRIMA OR \° sreKeioiese tive eleieiaiaelekeleie(esis) else: isle ryeiess/shexzeseis).||* saeqedsishceiesc) sie) e807: ‘ON yeys ‘ourut uviMayog |: sages s-9 0.sei ee “05° OMT ADU ‘gulut uelumleyog * a ater ALOLA: “M pure coy ‘OUTTAL UPRIUTOT[O_ |°
oe Coo Fee oo ee OP!.t Ln Seaman’ ey priests yeas GO Dass inn Seetie Ble area whe! Tec
DNs Peden Pes Rage EER a TE ES ee Oe Lene OT EO UMNO [FO [ITT pur ‘ivds ‘oreo pure ourjuedses Sururezuoo ouojysutoa ut toddoa jo yornydyns Avr
Op! Seviaise|e wieivissisigie eiseieisisisl eye isis:vise ¢ vie eiehieretaimivian agg
cag ne 10 0-8 Opts Se cileee ena seen e meta spe ts.c# 00 dees oe meaner aoe GE
‘avds ‘o[vo puv ourjuedses Sutureyuos ouojysuraa ut taddoo Jo yornydyns Avy
ahaa EE IEE 0) OEY BN BIRD ECA OUI OS CG gi
setseeeereeeescinds solve Surureju0s auoysutoa ut taddoo jo qornydyns Arty
seeeesssoddoo jo yornydins Avid 91441] & YALA ‘reds ‘opeo pur auljuedieg wretseeesereceseseess raddoo *qivo users pur ‘payvoo ‘yainydtns ery sh exerese Joddoo *qivo users pur yornydins Avy
*1oddoo jo yornydins Avas apy1[ V SuruIezU0D Yyooyy
Pete eee eee tone eee tee eee teee
ee eeeee
sees sopr teste ees
SAE hf rere. ge OPS waar et tae ane tase S18 648 ©: 878/824 () (eiabeselereeiersrevelesseyeue
eee sog Tee ete occa esses ee ter es eeeeceeeeeeres tases tQUTOID PUL ‘ouil] Jo “quvo ‘redspjay jo posoduioas yoor ut soddoo jo yoanydyus Avis yo dORLY,
ee eee eee etree ere wm eser este
eeeveee
Snes eres e eee sopr tere ceerreesecteeeeesog
sees eraddoo jo ‘qivo users pue yamnydns Apu
Teens Saree a ee hn ae oR) ECE IOLA SOE NOLL Gy ety
See en ie. Aa ss megane ges Maree ose SencessisiereG [yer se ear e wis etre mere see ers eRLO UT
srteeeecreds toyvo yim soddoo jo yommydyns Avi sereees yUBq UO 910 GuIyIOM WO sayItdd raddoy ee er) slsshelersiessexseS27N OT TNC taddog
Scop ers Sey pie S27 Eis ele Lole efOre S's a isisiayeravey eps eierereinverore oan
ee essere reese eee ence
Ce ee
See Die Se aS Ee SSS MES a a Sls Castro) tie tnge Sinloneh eh alcnege neers eyeserenehstreferere sequels SIO GT
trtseeeeereeeessrgddos Jo yamnydins Avi SPieisse eiteusieue.ciers.©t:eleus assesses) siviejeieqeiciee een Ona iaddog Pete eee eee eee eto ence tne e cies eee ee es eOcT
sreeseeseees dvi} ut daddoo ‘qivo uses pure uodl rvpnoedg rete eeeeereersececeseeeressooesoersatiifd saddoo Jo ori} yy rvdsplay poy ty0je.0.4 6 Ss eisie.0/ 80 5/0) Fein oS) eee sleg eyerely ee OTE OTD Sutureyu0o yoo. redspjoy pey e@eeeeeere reer eee tese sees eae eee eeee esse eeeseeeseeeeeeesese eee sopadd saddoy oer eiencoieie cleiee sie, cl ene) eise sles telesisie 91° BdSeo[ RIC TM @ddod JO-4OINUanscA BTC)
Sees eee eee eee neste eee nrgnr etree eeseeeeetesesueeesrieee es SOT
Peete eee ete e ete cesses eens srteeeesureeeeseeee risers etre ses OCT
SOR OI ORO TEIOICCES OCHO HOCH (0) a) OXON FORTH 10-0:00 SOCIO LCR 0 COLON OUGY Gj
‘*ureyunour jo doy wo. 4903 EOG Sutuedo mou utory roddoo Jo yornydins Avi rte e tees se ee tenet erecteeeeereeescands ‘opva ya toddoo jo yomydins ery
ICO IUD OOOO SO USO OIC DOTS 20 0-000. 0 00 0 OU DU LOD OOO OL COUOGY Gy
eee ere ene 8 CeCe ne gS Nephe Le oreie wie led ereisegesiershehe7t ciel e\ie.,0) beret sy sfoneeeiedeiens acuer=-exc OUT
ot see 4, €0 e10 8/00 '9:0(¢ o:8/0e 4¥ie)e. sie sieielolevioia,s)eeeie/eesis-e.e-mlerQddoo JO Jol as wed)
for)
SeVVvvoananan
069 619 819 LI9 919 cT9 vI9 €19 G19 119 O19 609
809 L09 909 ¢09 v09 £09 G09 109 009 66S 86S L6G 96S c6S téS €6S 66S 16S 06S 68S 88S L8S 98¢ c8g¢ b8s €8¢

<<<Page: 633>>>

Srereige) 610s (ee eiw)sheie jele elelesie e\ele8() 1) oie SS chee aes
Suaieleieivipieieislsive/spaieiaiseleisneleisicus/()T) totielels:eheloien:
OOO S.C1DGOG A500 OD cFO DT OrK a) o Fas
been ee eee e nets ee eeereeeesonerreeess
*'UIOA $.JJON PUL Platyoyg ‘toa opsug *
PDD DOIG NOC IOLD POT ORO N(a} oJ F010 0 0 OED
ORCS OOO NOIR OSE SORE (a 0 EME BAG
aHrWIOT OY “AA
cere seer
+o teeete es sone
settee eee eee teen reacts ee ranes
“og SUM 104g av]
settee eres sopeeeeseeees
er ae)
see eee toe
wore wees eeeeee
“yur” oyey]
eo eee eee eee
CICOIIIOIIOTIC 50-000 OF ORO. Lay RO en COO OT
Be rae cca “UOPSneyTT JUNOT
*OT TOF ures, UO LT “DOT JO “109 * AA NI
pie eiUvte oiucserezeincss sieicieis esis) e)e oleic (\Yjazale ie sise circ
‘ops: ‘op*
‘opr sOpise ‘opts: topresteeeee:
“og s0url SururnjuoD plorepsdwy
eerste wm eee ere sree ese eerste ne
see sisjjetersieusfeaeicteulenssexote siete oael0) (71
ONONBOOR I SNE OOOO LOO VRC TO SR COIS RO OS ONL DONO ORO ROTO OO TIE OOO 490-00 O00 OR COO TIO rei (ts h4 0 Ga CY a Ty ite) ee ee Jadstl oy} Ivou dvay yordunog
desy oy} rvou sedsef ajqvaavepous
che te ciate nakerecestoncteze] ok0i*) sVexe\s.c) °°V'() (0
teeeesueereeserodsel ofqvoavelg vt teen eee eee eee e eens cog
soveoooesortmyoid puv reds ‘ole teers oyvIOUO @ Surutezuoo desy, te teeeeereeees sgyopida jo sjods yyIM uot Aepnoeds Sururezuoo deay, ste e cece eee en testes eeteeeerssesseeesoesese yor AUIy,
Saneje lejejeeie $d sp aie 0i8se9 9: o/s aedete laiene le sis(e etera vere siengionee he ee OTT NOT
Ce ee ee)
eee wtp eee ere erties eee tee ees te ee
eee eee
a10 oy Yoram ut oyopida pur ‘oyt10; yo ‘vedspyoy Soul] “qivo Sururejuoo yooy tereeereeess (2) gpuolquioy uMoIg pur fopao[yo ‘redspfaj Jo posodmoo dery, *sassuUl pasnjUuod UL yor opAoTYyo pure «edspyay Jo ATpediouid Suysisuoo dvs,
‘OPIO[YO YIM OFS poy see e tree ee tee ee eteewerresseerreees roddoo jo 'ydmns Avis
OW @ Surureyuoo (reds ‘opto pur ounuodiss) ouoysulea udors ystXeis YS] ame LDR OC) 819 Pl ou'y [sie ova eVeXe reins. ce ole) eajee:s 9184, 0/0, 2.0.19) 5/ 878 95, gle 9)8, onesies eidssecese_0he eon TOLUL GT, 9144,
*PONUNUCTD—FRT Pup LET sapah ay Su1inp pajoayjo9 ‘saLo pup
| pur ‘ands ‘ovo pur ourjuodies Surureyuos ouojysuloa ut Jeddoo jo qornydyns Arr
‘wordiiosegq
a lor) Aanw
*xoq
*suaumtoads JOON
‘sypcourue ‘sy904 fo anao]DI0)
‘ON OAISSoIH01g

<<<Page: 634>>>

eoeceseeee ‘UOI}{LIOT s, Atig je
ssOpesoss egal
Sle folerehesiscese-oiee ois eielselensssnelesiaiece ese Opps iesersiosecessie
See ee ects ee seeeertoeeesernny sna] SARI \*
eeoeeee
‘sop: teesoprs
SKeTsIeQ puersteciole tuts
Woot avec ecrrccecrresseerersseQnesseeecels #.0/9.0\0, 64.0 © vce ence elereeessese sgntcceee ec ***op°
** "op" CD10) + oat Soria e2topreeeseee|s ssopnerernes|s 22 cope ities site| arrinQpirieis lente 4s SiveaO pres enuer|* eo 1 osee 8, Avg . EE SUApin else Serene rig erielersNieisrar.en,sieisse ie. <Q? +.8.4|¢ eFele/sie.¢)0\ 9) QTTTASAC Tey .
suekeQpsienexeieceeie eile
+ TOT asvoy s, Avr
sete esopre este cess
sees eeroprrsseee sess
“topres etre eropees
sEeileiahelsieiQ Musuejeroseniesessi/e
we eee ee ee eee e eee e eee teens one ee eter eee ‘907 ‘0D YyAsIOg | teeeeesson ydsiog |
SNORT 0} oO BECO
skajazafejas.ciesieis.e1she,seiejejsierenexsielsve sig) yeveietelarelerele 4s
chehedeiayehersiel*behahsis.9)/0he,9:** OU 8/04) U }ARLO. |
teers eee ecgpr ee teeeeesls
‘opret:
ste ee eases opretteeeeees
EON EIDE MIE RIE ICR TET 0) OL as Ne
teceeeroeeees guityard puv aysoryo Surureyuoo des o1ytadydiog Fee Opt tet t test reste et eeeesopre ee etttete cr eeenees sso
Ce © prieneiessjeelieie: isis ieieieie tenn rele ee ane [)o© * 2p: nko sec sleGeel ee ere ese OCT
steer seeeeeeess Opeeecscreerersreceteessopresssecersseces sees sro Steen eee teceece Op ereeseeesessscesseessaperesestesweeeeeeses co
tthe eee eeeess Ope
SHOpr ees sse sce ee cesses sso “++ opr Stopr ees ttts eee e ee 0g
ee Opglesstor sites eeredetecsciexelas crs) aieke (pp rscjehe etsleieteies. 0/6) eestessleremorggy
Peete eee eee ee ee ODP Ee ete eee teen eee tODE ete ttre e tere eee eee ee FOC seeveeeees avds ‘oreo Sururejyuoo desy osAydiod ut taddoo jo yornydyns Avi Peete ere ee rope tesa eee teeta eee co ropretesires 0g
eee e rem eer er esse Oppeieisasicase ioleletelekeseinetelsieie (G tyelere cremesneneac eres s ceceee OCT
ee ee ee eee eee eens opueeice
ee er Oprsicrsie
emer were errr sense Dp sastshessiaageseeleishexsicssjeneieuexehaO Pspesoxerer oe eueseinys vee} icstexerereke Qa
ETFO G0 0.0.0.0 TOO O.OGIUG COSI Oy Gy
Peet te eee etree ee Opere sisteieisekeleteiiene 0g
sees opees 0g
Pee eee teen ee ONT eter este eee e ee etr ero etree eer tr ee se see es sg ++ (avdspyay go speyshi0 post yystiq) devsy ortshydiod ur soddoo jo yaanydins Late te rceeeseseseees ands ova Suluivyuod ouoysuled ut roddoo jo yornydins Avi
sroprtertiee ‘og
wt beeen ete eens ropes estes es 0g
od Se seecseccccceeeceesceoessseee sya oraAydiod ut raddoo jo yoamnydins Aris trees ess orroryo pur ‘zyenb ‘ards ‘opvo Sururezuoo suoysuloa ut toddoo oalyeNy terres soqoTyo pur ‘ajopide ‘ivds ‘oped Suruteyuoo suoysulaa ut doddoo eaten tereeeeeess qaivnb pur opuyoid Surureyuoos suoysutea ut oddoo oarqe yy Se eeeeseeeeeseeeee grimnb pur a}o]yo SUIUIT{UOD oUO}sSUIaA UT Jaddod ATEN teeeeeeeseeeeeees oaruyoid pur oyopide Suruieyuos ouoysuioa ul taddoo ealye yy ©wje: eras pheneie ieie ejsiehausieieeieje eis *s)0)e.e\e)¢eiele ee ieheicie 0. <iehsiehtre OR ODIO ul taddoo aA1ye Ny teeeeeeessssopuesy Aq punoy toddov oAlyeu jo Joppnog
sxsinisioieeie/deiea sielerieieie| Or eresessiencatbr ehenekeatine ey oo enneae san (if
es eete ee eeeee
see ee ern eee errs
ss.0 sie ie), €ve32),0:\0)s¢feueaeheseuis ove) eleboisnscnersies ete eve @uereve.sezexese.() porersiupexentvers wiiees eRe
Cr ey
Sena eee eee ae ete e eee te eaten ene e esse ssn setae nesreeeesareneees sO eee ewes eeeeeeeees aapOgivd U90ID puv OpLxo port YIM Joddoo aAtyeU JO ssvyAL se eeeeeeeeerees JQATIS OATPLU SuIUIt}UOD Jaddood aAlyVU JO SsvIAL sete ee sOpe eee ter eset sete cesses tes S10 weet ees Opeeee settee cess eeureees essay ster esseesccarerereseees soc] i=} seen tree en ee tee ete e eee teeesteeteseeeereses Sanis UdHOl svpsnog
Pete tere ee eee elope eee ees tetra ete ee ione er teees Stee tetra ee eran ee ee ees soreeess uvduiog olzyng Peete etre ease ttone teers
***QUIU RIOPaTT Hee eee e es sgpe eee ters sonr ers
Piece este eergnr esses eee roprees
nrc aoe cog ee “hy Se ageancoera eae "IT ‘008 “AA “N GE'LE
Heese ere r rons rte eeeesone res
teens eee es One eee eereesoneees
SO ES ‘oas FAA “Ni GELS eee Bo (0) 9 IC
siscieleg primmemiearaiig gles sages inary saint e na a tas "* 9 G6 ‘008 FM “S GELS "°° g8 ‘008 F "AA “S BELG
ebokercsrksacibilo as evde()y) -Xheteiszeersrere() [)eiexer®
CT CEOS 0Y ‘oas FAA "3 GE'S
Escaneacy hor siesctodsieseiskeleleleRe(cyy seus sicketese
SU Ce open asic Esiaiyisxcie ieish evete lose rye tlensleaerens
ee ge CO BUULTIE 8: Arig
Grea r cen sepsnegceneseroners 2\e; 2: 628,> Oy) rsexeks\neKeas)|
Potten eet eet ee escort re ees
sete een eerste eee econ se teees
coe. sieiepsieaekeis%> eS 11014 GOO] sg, Avig
*ApPLIOTT
ee eee seer ete eee our nese LO Ei ee a0) 0 LN TACO LLNS POY gy ¢
treeseeeeereseees (taddoo ou) ivds ‘o[vo pue opuyard Surureyuoo ouojsuto 4 treeeeeeeesssouoqed poleq}vos Ul a}MO[yo Sututeyuoo des} yoous ‘pos-yieq Petree sees eee OMe retest eeee erie eee cope reese ents e rene sees SOT reese ssQqO[YO SUIUTLIUOD BUOSUIOA UV01S-yALp ut toddoo Jo yonydyns Avy treeeeeeeceressqaitnb Jo sulaa Surureyuoo des useis-yaep ut taddoo aayey se eeceococseoceccreooseroe duly udaIs-yIep pue teddoo jo yamnydns Avaix) * taddoo or ‘Jos pur reds ‘opvo yyiM Joddoo oatyeN t seeeeeeerroeeeerees ouiroryo Suluieyuos dei} udedd-yivp ut raddoo salen SPO n eee eee eect nese eens aren sees ae eaten ceases esonereteee renee erocT ste e eee te eee reece creeccesesoesccsooerssinds ‘OIt0 Ul ayluyoid oAtssepy Stee ee eereereeees soriouNt pur Ieds ‘ovo yy ajopida ut raddoo oa1ye Ny ayuounry pur ‘oyuyeid ‘aeds ‘opvo fayro[yo yy ejopida ut 4addoo aatye yy See te scene eee e sree reeeeeeeeseersoniiorya YM ajopida ut ceddoo oayeN
fake efereseieesiovoksloielevslogay ekeresueUtje, ez eueyey *hessycckoN() [)onerenonelsskelsuevekea cues. h esas eaesa00) (7
cee ee eseeeseeeeeees airorya pue ivds ‘oreo yyA ojopida ut taddoo aa1zeN teeeeeeses ouruyoid pur ivds ‘oye yim ojopida ut saddoo aayeNy *qdvo UdaLG YA pozeood urea B WOT Jaddoo aAIyLU Jo ssvUI SIT PC ayluyoid ul (gory) aaddoo aAlyeU JO ula A ee er 16 fal *o[ Ro Jo Sssvul ul qjaddoo AATYE NT
exe esNokekeisteqsuerenereueleheavt viene 63eleye™ ev ekezs oust ele loieenenele(() i) cue, si aveNexeyercereyessicr selerenexes* () (4
tee teceseceeccsscceserees s 19dd00 SnOIqTy oulureyuod {e]NOISOA [VJBUL yor ee roddoo oT rR sululeyuoa uodly
rr Opersisreie ze. cr esexevencie) efesele rexel she: Say pyriersveleico:e:sheiccetsscieeis, ea aceaO Gy
teeeeeereseoeedvry ondAydsod ut ‘qivo ueeis pur seddoo jo yoanydyns Avaxyy
ee ee ee Opssererel evaniezere%e cerensxeveie ps ereren ust orenerewekerennes<O((]
*xoq
L68 968 C68 FG8 £68 682 88L 868 L8L vLY €Ly 98h ¥8L rsh €8L G8L I8L 084 6LL SLL LLL 9LL GLL PLL ELL GLP O18 608 808 VLOL €10L GLOL I1l0r
*suouloods JRO N
*PONUNUOD—QFRLT Puw LPT supah ay) SULsnp paj29jj09 $sa.to pun ‘s7D 1UIUL *$YIOL fo IN.GOJDID) #
‘ON OAISSolnolg

<<<Page: 635>>>

09 Jowodng ayery Jo “AA ott 2 ‘oL0Ys Oye] lee eer eestor eee sere reer seeeese
chekeruenens reac snsneseislerxeye ens suezestle! 0/01) 17s eke) sveetegs
se eerecsrevestoos seee ewhejenszetecie's'* © TI O0I Gy
Ce ee ee Sisie)e cere slenalsien (hod UOT YOLTT
eee OE Oe al se a aR RTD CROLL OOO CEC CEDOY a
eo ee tone eeteoeeeresonee
0,00-0.0,. 0B, 0/000 2/0°00:0 OCHO (hi ep ia | lew eee er er re ere rseee essere rresece srelereivigeiersieee's RIP OMIIAgdIOd: 70 loppnog **aLOYs 8? SIOALL [PRSIFUOTA OFA e COIN see cee a8 St osc tsecen 08) 8 er encasereiereneresrere “9uojsputs Jo uoisny &q poulloy A|qeqoid jadsvy
0.6-0:05 0 0.6. ONO T DOC OCHO Gio} 817 DO0.000.0.0)
ee er er ey
siolseeysiersiesiereie.eie Je ereisiels OUT TE ISATS dvy yordutoy
vetteeeeeereceeess Kuvdulog Yooy Aer, prt ss tess tess e sees es eee ee eetee eee eees eziienb YIM poyeUsoyye
ere owe esr e
eee seeee eeeee ovens eeeee etree ee eee eeeee seeee sense see ee eeeee eeeee veeee seeee cere
eeooreteee
+e 8ssop tees sop:
SMpeRQ DET tet its oe sis aise espe etie|o'e vise oe eelere seicie vei s see sisee'e © (quaaedde xoddoo Om). ced. 'o[eo UjimueuGlsura),
“LOQIVY OYWHY ‘OD ULSIYOIPY PUL YOR MOAT Teese ree eee sees eee see ceee ee ceee econo eee n(stinys ATISBA) 04218 POY
cheborels Ope wicuetenenemeneele( [ere sins e),* re *,'oler eels ajo eteierei eiereleleusin wisiele!e\eisueres! aie ojeie's op
sveieit) ODD ereitncaneiereges*
el shel shnorcrenseloseienaeczenen I(t) rien hci|Ay.c sneeze elieray®
se eropres
| fYOOL OPAOTYD UseIH 4YSI] esooyey ATyUsIedde sopts uayor[s SutMoys ouojsuro A
Sesroprecrertees ee Opreetlececssercreoseceesecseeseseragiionfa UIIM payvod OUOJsUIEA UT Joddoo OAIJEAT ++ 8 ope
‘op'***) weds ‘opeo pue zyienb uoat repnoads Surureyuoo ‘desy orptAydaod ur soddoo sate
‘Opt tirescesrceseeeeercececcoesseess redsray por Jo s[eishio oug—den onpahydiog *>-Auvduioy yooy taddog fs trttttteeee sere s um avjmoods Surureyuoo deay ontadydaod ut raddoo OATFL NT creer OD seceeteheyameged: it O [Dn cre al| sie ear’ r2, cie/*) © eueyr el mercienebenarensegecovereureas(easyescslerselol(a i POIOTO ayy uvyy yarduioo
sreneNSIO)T) S7 ee |
"ts Opretteseresesopressieeess (2) oquojsuiqeg pure rvdspyay jo speyshio edivy Suruivzuoo dexy o1pAydiog *urdurog s}josntorsse fy cc
Peete tee eee tee eestor eee eeeees
| | e1our) (2) o1uto;SuIqeg pur redspjaj Jo speysAa0 oS.Av] Surureyuoo dey oyAydiog |
See ee eee ese esas Qyeeee steerer eres cece entre reeeee tees srerees oto
IOI SCO ORMIO EC DOCG OOO Ata ha GS LtoxG! poy terperseceecresecooress qopidd SUIUIL}]UGD BUOSUIOA UI Iaddoo oAeN
Sete eee teste eee e tees creas eign teres eewinee ee see es tO
epenekane tr tic suche onan enen® (S(T }eLss* 012.00 sre. 01* see ehslellore’/si.e) vereleceielenalisienehelehelets reds 5) 19) yy QUO SUDA ul reddoo OATIVNT
eve ‘op vee ‘op:
* op"
te ete ee ee ron:
SESAI CT Stee tas ees one EE Ee
“oprersteres
Soprttteeees op":
‘opt: ‘opt: ‘opt: Soprrttseees Soprrtrssess oprrtsrtess Soprettreess
Ee SeENS sISES 2.8 on Re ee DR a ee ice & yoo a Eons (ouoysutaa) eds "2°
sreeee ee oor oYOTyO YAN Savds ‘oyeo par ‘ayruyead ‘zy1vnb surureywo0o auojsute A
screeeceeeseses (QUOISUIDA PIT[VO) OJIPIVyUo, YM Ieds ‘al~g
Meee ee eee eee eee e see eee sopeeeerteeeeeieeeee sees sO
**+(guojsulaA) reds ‘opvo ut oytuyoid oAIsseyAy
Ce ey
ee ee)
LOPe* tele ne eee se seee seveercecsee se QITIOTYO JO AIUEND dorcel SUINIeIUOO yoor dea y
THOPr er teres tOpr ster e eee eerste access ONeee sree teen ee ee eee een tOnt es tence reece e tees s tO
‘op: ‘op ‘op ‘op: ‘op: ‘op: ‘op: ‘op: ‘op
Tele teen eeesececes Oe rerresecsscescrsece signees seceessecessseses tory
*s+reds ‘opvo pur opuyetd Surute}u0s suoysuIdA posozoo-zYy SI] ut taddoo oarneN Pee eee eee ence eee e ieee eetre eres eeeereeceees OUTUL OY} AVIU YIOI 9}LOTYO soca coos sree ee cusece cose 901 OUIO[GO Ul ZJ1eND JO UIEA @ Ul Jeddoo eATENy SOpIS UIYOI[s SULMOYS YoI 94110 [Yo Jo sutaa Aq poyoessozut oyopida utszeddoo aarye Ny seeeees-oquuounry pue faeds ‘oreo ‘zyrenb Surureyuoo ojopida ut aaddoo oarye Ny St ceeececcercoeccosecsoces cinds ‘o780 JO SUIDA YIM ojOpida ut roddoo oalzeNy
a DP stsWiehossorekeleios eke s 6) exe siehererely OT) csese tle cercariencumcwacne elas cence sexes (iy
TE ene e eee seen tence tee e ee teee tesa eeisesecieecesereeeesenoxtut iuds
‘oreo pur zyitnb jo suloa yyIM ojopide suiure}yuOD oUOysuIEA Ut toddoo aAeNT
ooocoeo OMI OmN oe oe oe on De Lol
a= or korsor yor) erect

<<<Page: 636>>>

IO COAL 6 AE SSE RRA 0) * hae Sadie
te eee scope ++ sop" **op" ++ sop ‘op ++ +p" reese esope seroprrsteesess seen sons te eeee copes “opts ‘op* Fetes esopes tee eessopre tees eesopes tees esopre ‘op'* ‘opt * tee ee eropes
wears e opr e tee e sees eerone eee eeree sees
I I TORO SI I OA here am a ahd SOLELY 9 YO IOOIS COO CODY Af
seeceeeeeeesyoor ajopida ut saddoo salen soceereceeeeessouroqsulad Ul taddoo oalyeN teeeeeeeeree es sourouyep ut saddoo OATye NT
Stee e eee e reeset eee re etree eee sory
sete ee ewe eestor eee rigddog OAT}LU JO SSBIAT
se reesguouzep yy toddoo oarye nN
cece eee eresetecseee sees sory
seroprrtteeeees ‘sop:
‘op:
“op:
Stoptttreeeeecees
eC Ya stoptrtteeseeeees
*+op
* op" “op: ‘op:
0g + s0q 0g 0g |
PUODIMICOGO OND. SORO 0 OUIONOTO'O Taya;
reese sod teteeeeeeeeeureess gropida ut taddoo ARN
sone e ee ergnee eet ee tee entrees s1oT
Sense cere ese eetewees seve eGprertasescdovescressccrercececeee teas revesesese sen ccQns sie ssseiee ses ecesiere sO
seferesisiessseiekesisi*®)FO GUILO TOME SOU b lt Secs wyteae se ++ **(zq1enb pur redspjaj) auojspues por asivoy
Pevais\sinie o'e s\+¢ o10 s 0'vvielhi0ini0ie wayyye e w\Sip.svele.#e|9,0\sf0 e'sn(sieie\s\ec/eTs« v'ee:eieleie'e.074/0/¢/s diy seine ¢)e\ais ¥aidin\e oiGe ejeyeicstsig. te i8,0i8ie.20'8/<ORB
— a ye) @ =
| BBL 68 toy 88 082 Lg 6LL SLL cg LLL +8 LL Teo. | enh |0g0) |. RE 669 ELL Gr6 GLL
Ce ee ee ey
SRIDOGOT a) iG AO BaOCA OOO OO ap ON OCI OU RIOD
“ZT ojopidgy ‘og peAoy ojsy pur oryo *°°
stehurevenfeveisyeiscveyetels 6s esarestezens)(pTjeqeceaueaigiere)'a| tic 10 leeneueiele <iclis\e
eae = NOE OD ed ON Oe bee hae ee (ayopida Surlpqurosol ‘ua0I5 poulrys iedspyay) dery atyiaAydaog LO6 | \ Ward oeee se eeee SOOO o} ofp eee eevee were cree ec cereeccerresores opi 10 Auopaoro pue URITAULOD GES OLL
Seen ee ee eee eens een tOne sete nsec renee ciseceetresenecectesseeecsieeseuees eeree sguoispues UL syrvur afddiyy ween ee ee cece eres c erence cgnesrrscceetsccncsoeecesserisessereeees seer eeee eee e ewer eee eere see dpry yordui0g | ae nets nee erercctses coer eo neescrerersiscssccececcreecsececceusscseasoes $s *OUOISDUTS PUL deay Jo uoysng wo4y ‘n1109g | sajeldisisiois sie =)" + * “9107 MBUGOMON | °° se eteeeeeeres soqoryo Jo sapnpoAue YIM plopepsAMy
eee eee SPS 09.6) 45) Gif seroreijseiol(e aje\isifellareiei's islet sieneie) ee) eue\ selene cle nmeenO (yi
06S 69L 88S 89L G8¢ LOL 78S 99k LLG COL 9LG | vot OES EOL | S66 | GOL
seee sen teen sone er teeeeee oe
coeccoooer*qUuOg euvsoMoy JO pua IvoNT °° °°
sive rela ehetene emer Teno sumaiace ie. s) ve.8h014i8: OS OOMTs OC CG eo ayytdydiog |
O18 B19 OS OD OAD OOD FR HHH ARARNARNL £<S or)
| 'xoq (‘suauttoads |) ‘ony OAS “Appeoory -uodir0soq | 3° ‘ON | jo ‘ON | ae
‘paNuyUOg—RFRT Puy LFRT supah ay) Hur.inp pajoayjoo ‘sao pun ‘sppLauiul ‘syI04 fo amsojn109

<<<Page: 637>>>

Cee eerecscovocrrereeesseessoneesssereres
3) O10'0.070,.020_00'0'0. 0.0: 0S OID. S10 CCI) Oe a ee es
etolsrerewereteieysiecnyncy: *1OGIe PT yooy jo pro ig
FO OOO CTIOR Ys PESIDD 0.9.0.0 COs a) oR Ces Soh
WO COOCOOD Oye OOOO Dias IIo) of ae OT srelerosheraiers\sO [eee 0"ee.e'*es'eieke\e COD utiioe cere e al:
ses ee ees ergnreecceresseeeesropeerssereess
tees cop tees sop:
tee eeeeeeronres
te eeeeeeesopres
tee eereerone es
see eee erope serene eeteeeessoprersreseces +++ sops
+s -ope
+e sop:
Pere eeeeeronreeses
stopreeses
See eee esOpreeeeeeeeeeeeeroperereeceess
tees eeee sone etree eee erestoprrssse seers
bee eee erope ert eee cere ees rope Pentre rope cere eens reese scope Peer eee rope tect esse eeeee scope see eee perope cere eee etre ees sop:
ODO ONO (0 0 OOS BRST A a0} Op COTS TOU) 0 AT BEM a Pen 0) 9 2
See e eres sonr erste eeetr eee scope
0 C1010. 60:0 OIG s RID CCD OOOO IGOR 0} oF
tee ee ee eestor este reese eeres sop: reese eee erOpe rece es seeeeeessoprrttseseess ‘YP oqiepy yooy = ‘opyeAoy o away *
see e reese ronere resets tees serope se tesecete op:
++ sop
Peeler saten eine isin ¢ suse 0p wiexstele arenynyy ©) eceniais s1s'*|8
skeuensierelscelehs)@tyiereisn eles
steers eeroneeeees
ste ee cree eonreesesceseccoersoneecrssser sls
seeecoprrssseseess
eereeesese eeoertoeoe sooo soo es ee
‘op’ ‘op oq skehela\elie' ee iseveyee/ie\e's/ evelesszsleceve) eloteysieieiexeieiniene! ©9118 DO PVALIP IT ut taddoo aaiyeN sereecescreoecerecseesseraddoo jo apixo pat Aq poio[oo zy1vnb jo sprysaig
Shasta San sce Sonn eV Rep EAL cc Ronee ee |
eevee sere eo ee oereeeerrewese
seeeteeee
Siete eleisin.0,eivieseia\inlejeie7sie:eelsleielensieley wrele wiesole) 210i stexeoxs\n. pisueisyc. 8: Sean 0) Sieiohepsioy ecm G Ta
teeeeesssraddoo ‘qivo usdie puv opuyoaid ‘zeny
treeseeeseeeeeetaddoo OATPVU GUIULLPUOD ZUNY | see eeeeescceescoesvoeees yaddoo JAlzeUu YUM BpUYaId pur zzIeNy | tee eee eee eeeecreeseeeteeseeeeeergddoo ‘qivo udeIs pur optuyord ‘zz1eNy |
slate laxeie ew sfoveieeie os@se(0 040) 01040048.0,046.6. 9. 9 0,9,019.% cehene\ciebessLoieheurionnince Dts" °°”
eee ere er eeee
$1 ¢, #1988 vie ,0i0s,01\9) 6 eiecescelere OTOL pur ZIALNY teeeeeeeseee seTgddoo OAITLU SUIMITIUOD ZIVNY occese seeesisice sere cxrgionide ul aaddoo DAIVTNT seen teeter eee ene eerope ee ee ene teres OC tee eeeesog beeen eeee rod steer eee es cog teense eee rod
reeeesrog
Og re eee eso bebe ee ees e ete e eee enone eset e eres 10g Seen on ono) Ocoee onoer.)a] Hee teen reese reese rrgpe eee tteee cess 0G se eeeeeeequoysulod ut taddoo aaeN |
Lene tenets eee at eer eeeeeres ss OTTOUyEd eer CZ N ULOA Jo UOIpaG ‘oTOUep YIM suojsuIeA ut Ioddoo oAyeNT | seeeeeeee ay co dip “MT GG N Ul9A Jo UOTerGE ‘ezfoyyep ut doddoo aayryy | seteeeee ean TE dip “np 6G *N ULAA Jo VODA ‘ayyouyep ut roddoo aatyeNy e@eeeveeseee ee sone ee cece ee rec ee erereeceeere ss sarironyep ul taddoo salen | sere e eee enna ete eeceeesee en eresseeessosseeroeses er o1onidd SULIT |
-joddoo oy} yyeoueq Apoeatp szoddoo ou Summeyuod ‘yoryy yoy 9 Syoor ajoprdyy
ee eee erro eer ee seer ese se see erase er eesoeeeesreeseerre eee
eeeeeeesradsur veeeeeee eso cee te ee eee ress ree eeescsecererssessooeserrinds QUO poy
| | vee ee ecco ee ceeteeserrroncececsransesserrerress sory |
risen eee cog
a ieidei wo isie;ce 0 [ele yehe)eieieseiersiehe)e) see 6: e\e ie e1aia)enzeje siaxalele).sieie\e Op ye\e)ereieise the mene OG, i
siieTeeiiensicisiel ei cite sexei Soleus) ehcie er slice syeleieleane: phejecesiele Sereher sie AOpen
€eG GGG IGG 61€ 681 L8T LIL GIT FIT €IL GIT IIL Ort 9IT 601 80l LOT 90T cor Por €01 Gor 101 OO 66
vEé8 £63 GE8 1&8 0€8 668 868 LGB 968 668 ¥G8 £68 668 168 068 618 818 LI8 918 c18 vI8 €18 G18 II8 0[8 608 808 L08 908 ¢08 F08 £08 608
108 008 66L 86L L6L 96L c6L

<<<Page: 638>>>

wee e Opry see eres eicis-e:8
sreiseievOpes DEEN IIOC) 0) 00
see OSES AY
OR OOS UD Oy G |
| stonenencle oh exerkensy eke SOG sieseusiorae es elege.e-0(8 ieee) <a ‘T ‘quiod s,[]tA00g | ees Barer ® SUP, S828 S/S. S OSS EIA PASE eden” OP? i OD oar eee eS eau
COO ee OH eH RHEE EEE HE ERE ET EHE EH HEHE EEE EEHHE SH SHH EHH HE EHS S HEH HH SHEE EHESH ESE SEH OHHH EH HHH HES . eee ee tee eseeee . op eee od
‘quiod oy} puodogq ysnf ‘pus ay} uo. spor | OL tesuyeroy oy uo Sy sy SjuIod 8, [[TADDG |roe reese rte s tere eteeescesossnecerieseecsrinds arquy Jovdu0d pus ozIUOsHoUs | mysloke! oh aiplecasicejeie c's ole c eheelsreisicdegry vicvwicieieisjele;*|e/ers c cilveeisieieiee ee. 0e vie 4 a elecie*. e's GUOIEDUBS pe Cel} TO UOIsNy Aq. psumMor eirooS musnaersionteleshojes eisieleiekeieiese sis sleli(parcss* Areiecis |e e:e78 ¢ ee e)eeieieneheieie eveleteiie else -shewpieredelereieve akelessienvereleese© S99 1TH ONC. Ula OOo: OAlIUNT coe te cece ee er seer ecectseceeropressescersieoccoeeoeseoes sagiutaid ul Jeddoo oAlvuU Yin ‘propepsfure patofoo-ayr[oo0y9 pioceisiaie.e, eeetereiersie) siesieievelserese escOp° Come ee eee eee seers eseseseessees seer indy ‘OTRO YIM S9UOSUIOA UT ioeddoo oatywyy BisieS Op: Soot ee eee er er reaees tresses eeee se tieeze eee cisheele/e'ssers Seon TOUTED UL 1eddO9 OATL ENT ceeeees tees rop: SS Conon coo econ) nec enr Tg
sumone *su0i8/40 18 .9h8 2 OD: Sienste'a) 261s cies (e-e'e eelele 6) 4/.0/@;sswiece nelece ae ¥r9:~) esse ee ever ONT OTC sg UNE UO ‘der ottydiog Foote ee erececscecoscccsrcsorronessTiO IB[NOIdS YUM ‘auojsuIOA ut 1oddoo eAlyeN
ee ete ee seoe eanranss)ereseusie) «fej sjiviaeie: exes! *ekesexetehe gy) ansir’= *euenslerexehe(() (ay
| 9G | 998 | ¥9G | ¢98 6&6 b98 GEG £98 1G 698
08% 198 Ifl 098 | OL 668 | 6&1 gcg | 8ér 1g |
see ergpreceeeececiees
SioleHelO pestis weteuecs Cae | eherb esi 8ecere eg Sreleieie si aisieig aiere's o 8ip/as ses aiezsneyexce \e\eetels/ei Gry pieces
eoeer etree eee eee oe
LEL 968 €&1 ¢¢8 GET 8 | Tet £8 | OT BoB «661 1¢g 8éL 0¢8 | LGL 68 | 9&T 8h8 | SOL L¥8
bel |. 6B | §@I | G8
settee e eee eee tetera ee eee rans
Bibra e So Ae ce aaeie 22 8.2.02 28,009.82 ODF
ees sop: tees sope
IT ONION TE Ue BR SO CPU 0) 0 SOIC OST iS BAR
Soon) Ya
0886000 Sa oeeie s9.00 600 Scie se veces ees © eOIOISUIOA Ul 1ddd00 QAITEN
S509: ies 8 F-aielererelelerecieraes erole elereceiel ofeieieiele 0) e-ssleveMlaery terres @r=-eseO (i
esehoge ones) cies sieielsus renee Gisies {alle eferexe() Tyee) iele syspeieys)eis sume eis iaie) ¢e) 0ne 18 8:0,2¢ aero, vie. celejers sis eje-¢_Ss\erersiehs-edelolererskeicessieiolel(y 1) vicswselolsseersOi)
planes cicoopene tre epeieiecbueiaie, *” siecle. esses Ope susneel sae iece ns: eher spe sehe, 4 eiel due e'e-p kei s\cieisie:eieceleitisiey es siotske) ee 18 es9, 8.0 ere euere sessie:sisiGyy sie, sie-e08 9 *. OG
soprrrtreses tog sropressest sod
sie ie Ker siigzs sist eienenss 03856) ates ols is.erorekelelsesereheisi@tyecese.0! 8iee/nisSeO (i
renee ee en ee een rere eee eee e er ans
reese sons
Fee eee eee eeeee scone
eee ere ee eee ee ee ee teeeseeeerree
eeeeeee eoeeeees
ea rr8 TGL €F8 Ooi: =| ars | gog[Py alge 2) geo, | — Aue LEG 8&8 9€6 LES ace |) ge PGE cég
Pe Scie Se PsSienenei es Phe. 821 C) Tastee Siar Mea evele) O; 8}; OF ozs, v0, exes eiok eves eseseis48,01: 8/0) 0/8) ie) Heiniie) si ein seeibieeiesedeeversxeeserercie (yy sicvererece/aree gC (iy
epekchese sores c'skepsis, 2/4500 01.0.0) Say oT ‘yulod s,[[IA00g [pbsaeoeesa pests acsasib mans saa We scents is caan nica Otear bene yee ane ste sea ae ut taddoo oaAyeN
© 0 CONSE OOO ORT 0) 01 Re sa a a A le ee ao eae alan cenO8 U COU 1a | 8S)
seeceere:sheerse esse. tO ne ee emeerlsee ees teey sees eoeeseeee
reece ee eeec ee reeeeranreeeerereeetes soy
ote e else ere ee ee eres eee eeesee Sudsigenece lous fale ene exeie se (yyy rte/ehererolewheeierers ian Cay
SEPA ee eoe OG8.0 8 S28 0)* 2. ODES
srcpuieececr ne sesepiejsier9/60-e.2° LOQIUTT 400%]. 1 BAN b, Oeje) 0) e¢ Jo) a1, 0) Leneieneie esi) #in)6/r1 vheleyeiene iovasapsieueksveleie/(ole/eies)9k010\¢4y +e/s savoielele/eielteay ku CE
$6 e010 0.0/0 eisicien ¢te.c eects e tO ss 12.2 88. +200, 1e Cee rereeceteeceseeeerweesetecceese ese WOOT BJOpIde Ul Jeddod OAYeN
Sree nee e tee e enews cere e arse rOnr ee seeeeesceeeeeeseeeeeeeceessee sss ounT ‘qivo SUIUIEIUOD yoor ojopida ut seddoo oAyeN
eS SS ST ST, “LOqIvyy YOoY Jo peofyT [eieSi sin citste we Rais, 4018 pais Kee avereiee o's: sein ecensiee-e-ecoirl#s OY TE DOAN DULUT aod dG. AAT) BN {
*xoq ‘sueutoeds| ‘oN 9AIs
“AppLoO'T ‘condiioseq JO‘ON | jo ‘ON -SoIs01g
‘PONUYUOH—RFRT pup LPT supah ayy Furunp pajoapjoo ‘soo puv ‘sposaurne ‘syoou fo anaopojny

<<<Page: 639>>>

see eee ree eee oe
rereeeeeeeeessagpa "AA WO spor p “Gg ‘Gg \°° **zaddoo oayen "99S "109 * AA NI Ivau ‘aioys aye] UO LT ‘cg ‘Gg |"* SOOO. @ |
Been ee a SS 0) SiN cs | en Ra ae name aR Se ed gd Od A OCS LOD R OFAN G.
COG 106 10@ 006 661 668 006 868 861 L68 LOL 968 O6T [68 PPG ¥68 0GG £68 616 G68 LOG 168 G6L 068 161 688 I8I 888 BLT L88 S6I 988 r6l 688 LVG r88 LLT £88 CPG 688
806 188 F0G 088 | G81 6L8 | OST 8L8 | 6LT LL8 |) Sit 918 | ¥PI GL8 erl PL8 orl £18 9ET GL8 S&T IL8 VEL OL8 896 698 L9G 898 996 L98
SNetokeiene Renslede7 oRsieh cs elslelererereneeressvers. Hexeeey ‘ce"cg ESD ca ee a 2a EF OT OS0DU OG YG
"6 pus ‘8 “¢ ‘f SIOUIOD *O9S UOJ “sD QT ‘6 pur ‘g ‘cg ‘cg |** sect te ee ee eee etree eet eee rene reseeeersles eee fe ee 80. see 8 8 See NTAD UR SEC EGO oe Pope ep acest Sheree eis, She cele eA PUB GacGls GG oe Paki SAN TSECie Si 9 eh0: 88 Si cete:eacieieseGPeC ELC se “OLOYS “NY UlOIF BIW [ [Iety B UO QZ ‘cE ‘cg |** °GG pur ‘TZ ‘OT ‘GT suotjoos Jout09 ‘ce ‘cg |*° seers ONel JO pus “AN GB PUB “TS “cE “G9 |"°
2 OOOO EOS IO DO ORG COTTE OOT OO OD ee
eoeeee og sols levers 908.8 Seg
Se ae epee Seek cease eke roses ot" Ney saree OG {
eeeeoe oe
eee e este eee e teense eteee sear soer |
aoe oy, Peete a a OOO ORI EOE Poe: FLUE Cs WF 0b | oiaeiele Pe **-oTTURALS Jo Jeprnog | Ss oereenelee sac(erencasle TO Ode UIT. | te i peg lian. hao aes oPUVI JO Japlnog o1yeriy | See Sh nSb ee Geckos Spend O Dame be scot sepeengenne O Gh | ee eee **OMeL JO Opis “AA GB “ce eg DEES siminney ise Seeks ee. Gieeasesiuy waeat/eceie, a s\se.e.si vase le males ees. OT UOUd tl TOddOd OATONT | . ceeee cere er cease COO ET te ‘ce mere) OOD seeee reer eee ss GYR] JO pus JSvoy}LIOU FO YINOS Fn]q [Tews eB WOTY dexy,
sereeercess scouel JO Pua “AA N CS ‘ce-‘cg ee eee ee rece wisusyonsitieit) Ciesei alse: tern eis: ei Segex0 sieveiaisleknorers se Teka GILORE RIOR | : OHeeSAttes, Sencar nueseee> ke Cen DIUG eG (GEICO Ne RSS ie Stl a te ch op SP ack er ats tha ee pe nC abe a NSE ONO GE AIO. O MSO oy OSCE SOs SOO AIC ‘ce ‘cg [°° Pin ese ieee Srinke we) Spee, cutee 9s, Siesicsree nine vitee sre-ares<TmTG “B_LUOTp oOL CEI,
see eesseces eusiezeheslershei(ypran. eves serer®|eiece GOP OR GOUT oO. O ORO COo 0g | |
ttt sseeeeeeeeerees sazous anv ‘9g Seg Seg °° treeeeeessaqopida ul taddoo salty Poets eects sees ieecestereeesQnrsrerererslescererereeteeesiesecsses eens re tOne resets rOnreeeetnese tenes sor "6G 8 ‘8B ‘TG ‘0G SIoUIOD ‘das Jo sya “QE ‘Gg [rrr ttt ttt tees estes eee teee ee erUSIU Jaat OOP YuIG v wos deay propepsAmy | seis °° 480d royrenb JOS GZ pur °Q¢ ‘ce ‘eg shexeiielsyWue jes yjthesin ever sin) t eis heveccuusisseyeltisieiexe! Seite uecere ATG (Ol {OOy 06 Bq WOT de1y yous | "GE pur “GE “6G “8G S19ULOD "99S WOT “SYD OT ‘EE pur ‘Az ‘cE ‘cg "teetess* espa" AA Woy spol pF 613 ‘GE ‘C9 . SS PH cha) 1 ef out aa 0) ee ****adpo "AA WoL spol PF ‘1% ‘ce ‘cg |** e030 FO.O3) OOD Cre ECL MOORES €=1 5 8 (059) ILGAGENGg oe
PES FOVOBOIGU ODO TO OBO RIOD Xo) oat EO OR
eee ertte eee ete eee 8 oe
ie as” | OR Da ui mui a te SORE EO IOO CLI) a]
Siep Siete te coie eRe we sclencrele iebs tasve se js) eeus.eisielseueies oz ayete tall eNO ORCL PINT
sles pscerieieeellsie.ci0\6) $918 wise s0sie* On OU EPSUT raddoo oayeN
sete e eect e teeter ee seeeeeceee sere erygor ARLE,
"eee ssoqoyyep pure roddoo aatyeu SuTUTe}UOD SaUOYsUIO A
seeeee seeeesouioa @ WOT dvry, | te etopres teeters sod
Pte settee eee eee seen csee eee rOne eects eesleeee etree eerreres ieee cinco ss ieee ee sgniessesesee ees rgnressersetes soy
ee eee ee eter ee eee
Sie) se jeneileie seieweseasihG seine sareeiew
Pte eee reece tee ete s ees see eee cpeceecaree lester eccsssee ees ecasesererreseseresQneesreeeree ees igneseseessee sco
tes sOGpa “AA WOT spol fF ‘1S “CE Gg [reeset tte t testes tees ee e+ soqtoyzep Sururejzuoo ‘auojsutaa ut toddoo oalzeNy |
Sameer arRticonan ra che bits Ve foratavecdcsogeseut() [Dna wescie sre rescnn| P1000, 218.9;.01.8,9\0/e2046) 9 eieisze)/elisioje)@ ie) eies:e/°.n sitece pL ELOY Gf |
ss, 2016/8 OG, **** LOI}VOO] 8, MRyg Say ot ‘yutod Si [PAOD | Petes Perey steverees ccereielexsieiereeksieuejleiere!eisieele\*sieusheisinin sues e)9)*s OUOIRUIOATAIT qoddoo DAIJEN
ee Rt Pe ae eke ens 6) 8 ELS SENSE PLES oie Leper t/0 0.L0 0: 2 8b le ses/0s8)/00) o.9-'aie, Meier tis! © o'lt'9 ene Sai 6 ei aievexs fel alyeiasse/e() 1p Sesereehescene ereanese: 81° *h0:2O (yi
SOT O00 ROO oye OO
Oeste este tere etree eee seine renee eerie eeseeeaias co cece rece screenees Petes ee eeeesonees
eeeerteseeetses Pig eb ek a OD aneaiic eae ek Amo |e-22058-8 he 9) 0M, SLe ise SOUSA ARs siei\e Asn) A: 0 10S ©; 2A SM LeRPReL SUS eVereErLelO Pesce share gre wenwre ke, Sz epoyennssse OG
PERSIA I DIR TENTIAL G) OF BO ICON TON (OSHC NILE IIH ICO ONO PERCEIVING yg POOR OEIC OY 6

<<<Page: 640>>>

ee a i a cat | Sa are a spacer se Tene isoiereiensssi? eee te ee erro a eeee epeieidn rye te: ekelshaxkerers/aie eee ere ee ee ee sees
se eetoprerseeeeceiee
ste ssoptrtteee cence secur yp ‘Aug oyeroulopsuog °°
Meese stop etree ee esee
phckulesoasgelejeiel sie xeleye\el29e\ecfotnsrenenni( phe: okie) sieiele «\eieieieisveehesererereesexe)sieveters Karim OD uwoluy) qeau ‘a10yg ayer] ‘atqqad ur soddoo DATIVNT ace aus seine i)» jth okapere pe ataseke ancy EIEN "Sit 1 wie ie slepohaieinoie\6) aia, «a eiee\s)or\sioie a sisnie s/efaeinseisiel<aera soem MOTTIOUT ED Ul 1AULOO OMEN] Cote ecco eero ocr resreceereressoecesseesesrs iis ‘otro ut taddoa aAtzeN
0 OD UOC OIIOTG'O.D 0.00 30100 FO. Cra) o/s DOO
seew eee see e were
see eropres eee eeeries
see stoprestee seers
eseiatsi.sis\iskaisi Tysxekelsleielensie
HE BLS $,008 UsEeMJOg WII}s 2 UO ‘1 *F9 siPlensigisieisionsxelsienens)iais\ekeheis\e (#kelsxe) shes ceiehelsiexskerekuatetene eetelexeese Qt Onto Sulureyuod det, eielowlesyoiisie exe 21) 88°19 UIT “WT Ivou SE ‘ge 6g i a a 6 6 oyusydiog Pee ee er ccec ce eserccssccecrsesterscosess ecinishID ZJIBNO
shessiexeleueieieiensieeeiele)*\°. TOUS:ON el oh T “GEs"GG .
teen teeeronr ee reeeeee
. Staten eee teens eee eee ranrerseeeeens siwieines
** T9UI00 “MS vou ‘a10ys ayr] | ‘9g ‘eg jeseheheinionsierersaiaiieiaiecepicieieiieisiexoie seieyel aus 0ielevsyel exteseveasielelereres PONTO ul roddoo DAIVENT ‘eg Teen eee reese ee rer ees scseeserisesecsrarsesssesorccese sip sy ul QUOJSUTO A See ee ee cee cece crecccecceseweeeess guoisuIoA asoddeiy ut 1addoo oAtN Ste ee eeeccccessrrecccrccosseeccosoorrers onituaid ul caddoo DATLE NT |
se °* OUI] “PNT tveu Saroys oy] ‘PT ‘9¢ soeceresscoull “gy wor “sy CT ‘ET “9€ ‘C9 | Si PNCie 8? 818i Phos deeKSseLNLO TOUS ayry Tht ‘og ‘G9 .
Re be pe ay metal pera i ade deat eek 9 SRA TONE OF 0 oP LO OO IL yy
pe CD OE ORO IC OOOO Sof o AAG 200-00 (8 yay, OS Ca SEL OCHS S50) 9 Rao AOR (a) 8 LOCO. CO.O.O.GY (|
coc eecceceesococcoees OTTOUTEP YIM ‘OUO}SUIOA UL Ioddood OATJENT Pete eae ete e ener eens cee erQpe esse tresses tone sree tees OCT
Sala) sienehee siehsiohozera@)okercksileiexeiels | sieheieiehe.sie/a'e)0ne16iei9\0/0\e1.0e;eisisrekeeie sletskerersi=@ [)sbelelsere
ef evohetel(yy mks. tacies ekeacne 2} suereusieiegeyrieishe, eleiepeceislieleieiziseieiese:caesiesexclehnoxekeletonscxeloleseecUnegseacdeXceteeneislsersyele) ©") (i storehe lO speacciseenerek ci eh eveiexshceisyelereisski sieve lereciensiere se) sei arei'tisieseitielleseres/esieete) eis Wola sero (IC OOO ATRL TOWSNe TA] SistsheAsO Pee) elehe lousy oie ps steusiekeboisysisisheinasieKeie/aiesieheishehseion sxeheisexeiensilexeksisic: <2 sheisloncieuonensl()[) ser eahe ie searotenns( ((
tence etree ee rete ee tee eecseeees tres teesseessQneessresese® OCF |
Se pene ee en er ae teemehnae nek eK COLES ET LO Oecd toddoo OATZR AT SSE RRR ops Meeks enc a RST Nae Soh SIPLMER Seah 90,6: wPdsigianenS es) ebMiese o/Sies6: eh srreeeees oqirouyep pure seddoo oAteyy | plonedeeiaiousisisionel=soneyelsceiekelbiax*kei sks) [) aden *helekenensscic | Pae,eielsteceheie) eeVese/0je, seieie%einis) hee ieieie s\eiessteyeeiexeislexeioss.sxeiexe OCs ‘opeo pur saddoo aalyeNy
Sencielepenal=aseirgeiioicloie 1eres69HeuehieleKexeeiG) 1) obo) eArleaeneyraci| si8akei*venxe0i0l\4ehe}e> $e 6lsielai exe ests \ey eke io) aussie) je Naie\e//eh(¢ excise Fereieie, leon () pix ehestacl4) en .eketono() (al
ee seeee sheleneay TS99 uoluy) s, Aasopyyty AA, slevexerehveneke)sisiailej.ei'ee)e\#e ist seskeiens .eysiaie isle xe} ssicie-sie(ensxeisyaleteres* UT OR STON ul toddoo OAIPENT
teeeecopressopres
++ op 0p
seeoq | O22 ECOX (|| | Og |
eee od ees og
teers econ
sreeesssoqtouyep ul Jaddoo oAtyeNy
sNouelexensts)elehsheiG) yenedevaieiakane\srecrel steaks (7) | ceeeeesQguospues pur deiy Jo uorjounsr
sropreess ssoprt*
pokerenensteQn | OTOL |
eee eters
QV DY’ GY GI GV GV GY GV OD GV GR GD GV GY GV GV GV GD GR GV GY GV GR GY GY GY GV GP GI GI GR GIG OQ te) re
*AppRoory
|‘suoumoeds JP oN.
*xoq
‘uondiwosag jo ‘ON | |
1&6 0&6 666 866 Lob 966 S66 Fc6 £66 CG6 1c6 066 616 816 LI6 916 S16 P16 €16 G16 116 O16 606 806 L06 906
‘ON OAISso1 501g
*PONUNUCD—OFRT Puy LFRT suwah ayr sua
inp pajayjoo ‘sao pup ‘sypsauru ‘syvoL fo ansojning

<<<Page: 641>>>

Soe eerielie/ #160 T8iR Lee e eredbnseQ Puen. «ay coe ss yicer = wiche tan as OD? 28, S/Sie8, 858 Atk th SiS SISTA OT) tac, ceesesaeienP.onseloiese Saleisha G Daimaiees-e/e'* ery
Ceieigieieie ¢ sees o eajele ee sQne.s sere sees ands
tee e eee e were esrop rrteeees
see eeerreee + efoy aS] 8, TETTN OO
sees HuIpUR'T S.JoT [ AT
rvou Aurduiog jesoy ofsy pur ployepsAury
Solero visieay iT LOGLEPT S,PppoL te seeeecrar sy S1oqIBFy UOPSUIYSE AA
SOURS IOI CROP SA IDOO DOL 0} oO) OVOT
Soe e eee e eee trees stone sere ees
tees rop:
DIDO IO COICO ODOC OC ODO ta OO. CO Ch OUIe
oeceeaevehe sae hej ekeheieetayshersn (ty erehoue-eXels
CO OID OLD COD COI DODO OD oi eeee speneielesyegeresree igs eeee
GTO IU. CrOO COO OORLO NO OU 0%: DIO O-OU'CICIOIOICG-O OCU LIO-A(oy sO UOsCIY ENC
OUIOOU0D CHB CC DO OUOO DOs). 000. 0G
tte eee cece Gpreeeeeees
"YT ‘10qre yy
s. ppoy, ‘Aurduop [vfoy asp pur sings
Cee eee ere e ese rere sree ere(rnsrecessres
crteeeecenr sy SARE ayVIOWMIOT SUD IVAN
tree ee sone:
Seen cette sere reer eee tgnreeteeces teeters eetope tere eees
++ ssp: +e sop: restoprretreces
sdcisiecceseieieie)t() jy e909 exeus*
Peete eee tope ee ree eee
tees rop: tees sop: see eroprerseeees
Settee ete e cere eer igneeeseeeee
SUS Sth 2j079.,915 0205 Sie esseleiene:8 OT) ens 4; elesSusien€
**-aeds
‘o Jo sopnpsAWL SururrjzU0d ‘aseq useis ‘propepsAuy
PSU SiS gies Sy 8 eee Bian aie 5/0 (esse aaubsove eisiae: ©. 46.00/01 e-0°eleahe se Pineieels SOT
secececceeeceeeeoesciuds ‘oreo puv.oyuyord ut 1eddoo eayeN th obeteeeseeeees -guojsula A ** guojsutoa ut taddoo oayeN
wiesnesoneieig a¢-pisiaiesea\sidiese os tiossinieisin i eveit opeinisnwe’s\eipieltsiais ¢m's\9s'\2\» SOUT
trteeeeeerees AUAVO B SULUIT OPIOTYO YIM oyuYyotd ut saddoo oaTywN weet eect e sents ee eeee reese eee wee sonteteeseeeee eee srry
Se eC ee ey ee ULOA reds is) fs) ul qoddoo DAIYR NT Pere eecevoeerercerencrss apualquioy put zjenb yy raddvo eayeN ee he ee eens ekoyrieieds Siouziayois)sols}shsieloleisiczy avec eer ovO TU Olea Uby-ZTUEN e)
the ees tee eeetsesesescoeeceeree cindy ‘apvo put zyenb Jo sptyshig **dviy poropoo oyvpoooys pur ands oyvo yytm oyuyaad ut toddoo oalyeyy siengiieiei¢ esie)'e) asics veresees nds topo yyim apuyerd ut taddoo aatye ny
ste ceases eresecenerswbeccceseensers QUOISUIOA Ul Tadd09 GATVUN rete eee eee esee seer eeeseessgurouyup yyta desy ut raddoo oayey ween ecaeenseneccecseeescoeebesve esse QOISUIGA UlIeddoo OATTEN © seeisje tipi eraielai cia ejeis\e 4s) o\aiels aie nieia.t oes Ses eeie'e ee <duyq\ ut aaddoo OATIGNT thee este tte eeecereeseeeermeeceree ss raurouyep ul eddoo oaneN
eC 2 |
st eS ete ee esteoesserecsscecoeecess es e* BUOISUIOA Ul Jaddoo OATEN PEE SEES eee eee eect e ete e went eee te ee tenes een etree ee eFOCT
edisxer ser seneerekes si chebsekensiciecnceay een cre sete eee LR OSDTOY pew Goe0 ** sploony Sulfquissar vi11ezdo] SuIMoYs ouoysputg sees e eee ee eee eeeees sropinog sasydiod SRN) teeters sseesesueeseeresssonojsputs Wor pouoy sdlsee enn t enter tee eee ieee n erento eee eteseeee ress ee rmigoaiq dey, seseccceccroccceerooes Inds snoaivo[vo YyIA plopepsdUy se teseceeeeroosers qiopida Ssuluitjuoo dexy [eplopepséuy
sisseungeia; seuereleiscexsiele jereje/sioiereie sel eatioldiovelajeleveie) tapehesescuonseicie, “re steel T LOO
Syenditnss*aciszeieisis) cleese>ersiessitisiye.e ine ieFerdie) Seserenes sausie, evenerswieyaine eneasie, * 29 B VS OOLC
Feet teen ee eet ee cre ears eres ssoqnie Fumrejwoo oyerowmopsu0g seee+ (taddoo ow) ‘avds ‘opeo pur zyaenb yytm yoor dea, Sinislotesissecvalercrsieied reeteeee rod tree ee sro Stee ee ee eee eeeeeeeeeeerees NlorepSAUIL IV[NOISO A she slajeje}eisiexereiezejoisleie-rsieieyateleiestekenelelenesiele.exslosieees Seles CLE eOU OSLO) A\
eee eee se eeees
9L6 GL6 bL6 €L6 866
VLG 916 GIG 096 656 866 L&G 996 GGG VSG €9G GGG ISG OSG 6G 8hG GlG
GL6 1L6 OL6 696 896 L9G 996 £96 P96 £96 696 196 C96 666 896 Lo6 9°6
cS6 PS6 £56 6o6 TS6 0S6 646 8h6 LV6 9F6 ch6 bP6 i at) GPG 16 Or6 6&6

<<<Page: 642>>>

OE TTI OORT LOLCat SOO) 0 LU Ad
pesiekrie 2AhbhAtl.e :os0sehae ye lorsaseisse @iergigiye-ex®. sere iexszexe
‘‘opres ‘topes: **** asooy Saloys oye'T
OID OOOO. 0 (09 gi IUO COLD SGD
sete eee esgneesecerces tere eeessopes
‘ops terse eee sopes
Dib eens tees e meee stones
Steet ee tee ee eteee ee tones
***9L0Ys ayer] seroprrtreeeere "991048 JOU UO SpUrISI [[VUIG
6-010 Og CEG UCI. OPEC DECC a oY SOROS
leheseexeis)isiciosei0is es (0ie)918.*iQyypseersis: eereiese
eeeee
S18 OP pease evenedezs.'s + *reAoy 9S] wlexsrer=seleieeOTOUS -UALO NI
sees teeeropreecreeess
see see eee ereeeteee es egroys OYerT
Sat SiehexeaneXess\ciesiexevekele (yy sciese
oper:
Peete eee eee eee ee roneseteeees
seee
ee eee
tower eee e ae eee
SpeRS Bele sue)ie\naiie caleveue eiey keel) fy sqelessieseseasiais
seessereesoroys yytou ‘Tefoy 9ST bebe eetecreeeeseees spf als] *aroys oy] ‘yutod s,[[IA0og Iva Ny
weer ee see e ee eres ee see eerineeees
tte eeeeees eee cesses erp foy alsy
OOD OC OOH OTOO OOO ACN ae L vA ‘oqrmyoad ut teddoo aaryeu pozitpeyshig
eee eee eee etree esse ees eerereseeeee apy poyyep YIM ‘aqruyoud ul ioddoo OATJUN
oe oe eso eeeee
sees tsopre estes ress cog oe Nie OD eke ese OG
DEOUO 0 SPIO 0.00) 00.070. 0.0500.0.0 010,0, DOU UO CSO ei iata ey Cola raddoo DATPE NT teeeetreeeeeeeeeceoes coqriyatd ut taddoo oatyeu yy ‘desy pepropepssmy oy oKeleruatejaite'nao 6/ecainheibiasatn’ snevansereuens Ieemeiere e's == ONTO faylpoyyep jo sasniq terse s qyimnb youlq pur oyver Suiureyu0 oprnog rte ee eeeererecoecoerecceeeceres onse Jo alqqag trees eres ououyep YA poziypeysfi0 raddoo oayye Ny
TROD OD ONE ONG.CU.00.0. 2.0 Gy a1. C.0 OOO GORE OTD GC LT oy (|
sereeeesssourouyep WWM aytuyoid ut toddoo oAlyeNy se eeeeteeeeeeeseeeseerseceseoses se tgddoo GAljRN tee eecereeceooeoers sesrpysdio aug ut zyivnb pue optuyard yyIM yoor der, MeL n eee eee e ete e eet e tenner e ee te Ee eODE Etre ee setae eee tOCT socceveeeeooeeesaqiuyord jo uaa ut Jaddoo oayeN teeereeescereess ands ‘oreo pue taddoo aalyeu pazipeysdig Weeden teense eens teeeeeteeeeeeeeeesesess ouOysUIAA UL Jaddov aAryeN ivds ‘o[vo put opoyyep YyWAr aytuyord ut roddoo aaiyeu SutueyU0d Japfnog tee eee ceececeesooeooeesscouittuatd ul Joddoo aAlru SuruiT}u0s Japfnog tees ope teense eed these reese sod teeeeees(yoor oY} Sulotaid [reu v sorqutesar) ‘ouoysutaa ut taddoo aatyeNy eee eee nese etOp ere rte eee e reese esgne sete sees ieee eeien ee sso teeeeeeeeesrouroyyep jo sasnip pue reds ‘ope yy dery ut reddoo oayeN se eeeeeee eee soquronyep yy opurard ut eaddoo aalyeu Sutureyuoo Jopnog treeeseees roddoo datyuu SuIUIeyUOD Jap[Nog * + taprnoq reds ofqvy youdutood pue oyuosyors ee ee ee ayruyoid SuIUTeyuOo dry [eployepsAury ee ee ‘apoyo fq por0joo ‘ayvIs uo01e poyempuy settee eee e cee eeceeeseeereeeeouescstessees Kiudiod pure rJoppnog
*Ayr[LOO'TT
wot} dL.Losoq
*xoq
LIE elé Glé IT€ OI LOE 90€ COE bOE c0€ LOE 00€ 666 STE ble 0GE 608 806 GOE sIé 966 [66 £66 6G 166 E86 G8G ILG 696 PEG 606 €6l €8l
‘suouttoods JOS ON
OTOL 600T 8001 LOOT 900T SOOT bOOT £001 GO00T TOOT OO0T 666 866 L66 966 [66 ¥66 £66 G66 166 066 686 886 L86 986 686 P86 €86 686 186 086 6L6 816
‘ON OAISSa1d01g
‘PONUYUCN)——OFRT Puy LFRT sapah ay) Fur.inp pajajj09 ‘sa.o pun
‘sypdauaue
‘$990.1 fO ANGO]DIDI

<<<Page: 643>>>

Fete ett e ete e secre eens eres rane es
SiS LSA ASA AEIS iS 48 Rne AROS ATEN Pee Te asPl Se REN gs Senge Sane CNG BANS 208) SSS0: Sele ope aene coi uege’* Se eheesse: 2-eieseie ene edie esteLEle Qi esr s ees OCT
Teese ee tees se eeeeeseetaneeigpresseeeecslteeeetresseeeseeeeesssreeesueeseuerteesecuesesepngnd pur sopiid Wor]
tenner eee eter eer eeeeeesgness
‘opts toprereseeees
‘opr? ‘opts?
‘opts ‘opts ‘ops ‘opts ‘opt ‘ops: ‘opr
‘a uyor "aq fig pajaaqjoa
SOP emcleseeneroneiexaiereleeheneereterclevetelslelsiezeivisrene’
EO iamenrnecepereterers cre sersrelewieie) els Televe Sleieveleresrarolevoiesveyexere) skereleree, 010 ¢/cieuarei Maen |e
eWraie* Gupte igsee(OP! ©
Ce ee
TOPs sree eetlsee ees eeececsrec eee see see es cesses ee eseceeerOnnerssee sees eee sory
SOP esse ce eetsceeete eee eee ese cesceeeere recesses serene sees sOneseerresersiee soc
> sop +++ op:
Meee etree erence ee ee ee sons
Peeves eer ee reeeeeres estos Meee eter ee teense serene sone
BOOS ODOC IS ETSI OOO CGy oy
++ +op
¥ soeeeeoreds ‘oreo pur
‘uo diosa
‘spassof pun ‘sao ‘sppsaunu ‘syI0.4 fo
BIOU DAY Gy
BOY a | pacha tt MRT OY Gf ET TONY (| PS TECH LOY Gf ossgeise-e-* "OCT
see te ewes eeropree rete reese sto
‘nua
Sof 82 Pi 8 Bet peice 2g Sene:¢8 eeereeeer eres ee tee
Tete ee en ee se ee eee een ee ceersonresecererslsetseceseescescaes
soe sere eee eee ere
coe eeececccevcecsscsececsoves -ipds ‘o[vo pus ‘eualed [eipeyoj00 ‘soq1aAd-uosy He derere Leer are yeres weve rare erestovete releretale etexe veer sere preereae" O11 OT 0.0 [e1payoyoo pue soyihd uoly ‘soptAd jo s[vysf10 OYNUIWA YIM paieaoo ‘eua[es [eIpayeoopop pure soytadd uoly FH este ecb ees e ee en este ete e cane sae e eect ee eee en tO eet etres teen te sg
Peete ee etre eee e cen e esses ees eten eee erteeeseeesseeeeees tees seeescueeeeeres se ptigTEs ({LIPAt{O}00) pu conten con © 0 0-00.00, 00 O50: CHC EEO HOU AO TTEL 0) 55 Ju THON EC TIE SEL OCS SSAC ONE eg CEs 21 3) fy) pue ‘ruses ‘saqdd uoly veeeees Cieds soyeo Suyysnioue sayiidd wom) ‘eds -oyvo pur ‘eueyes ‘sydd oly
oc ee)
oq od
0G0q
eelioiies close seis (yp stele) elsde/.siclelle Nie. she\ekekeueleierereiexeher sieyexsiele ie: efsiele\ el slezenzeyerers\eeqchekepterelelaveressieacseheltiove oe e: SOT OS OOIMOT]
| **oroys vpeury ‘puryst iedg ‘ula s.coutTg |ror testers teste ese eee eroeeeess TOATIS OAT]LU pur ‘apualq ‘seytAd 1oddog |
eoeeee soqaid sraddog teeseeereeseeees coos ands ‘opeo pur opuslg
. *a10ys epeurg ‘puryst iedg SUIOA $,00Ulg PCO ee ee eer eer er eeeerecesressevssseeseos ss Ing ‘opeo pue ysAyyourR RUdTex) ‘Keg 8, 90ULI 7 *200) UvOLIOUY “N pur YS a i aca Me ea a RE OL tO CTE a CeO **apue[q pur LaATIS OATPR NT |
ne Fe ee eB ee oe Be oe Be oe ee
*xoq TORN
‘suouttoods
mRNA ON
‘ON OAISso1S01g
Ui aS oe a ee ee ee

<<<Page: 644>>>

EO POS SON IN Se HET 0) 0 J CSE IOS eyercelelereieccsiereie-2SOpsse “Ops 2° soprele ‘opeee 50) oC ae COprelersiaiesrens TO passrenene scseg sOpmecreteres.e EO peeve sieieleceys Op sjere ete. 8/26 sO yelenele! sacezene (0) SOT sD eOpgercrs:* ok 0) oS sOpisste-sneatracis SO priparieie-seusic SO 1peneneieseseonsls SQpPseee= s* 8 VODs nel oic SODper nee 0) oak RO sops*< “Opes ‘Opsi" 0) oY “Opts:
sete ee eee eteeesonees
ssoptt: ssoptts stoprts settee eee eeree sone este eees
te erseeeeeeeeseaisy onbsarg
Cee oe eee eee reser eeresesseseseseses Mg 9) i) pue soyiid uolt [eprodjog
eee ees o ee etnoe wiete means eae 2 QT)® ee reees eeee . CEO) ECT} 0 eeeeecee eeee ° sioiessyesiensierel Op: Fe Ma Ai die SEE? SOO TUNIC OLE Coy (|
winnele (e/svehensisXavexeienelegsiesejeceigislensise Aislsselepslolestucle)e:¢ 00/6; Sie/b.a-ccsieacevels\e OVO NICS
Aq porojoo Ayyuerudde yoor uses v ut ‘reds ‘oyvo pur soyafd uom jo speyshig
*AqR00'T
| —_——___—
Pe teeeceeescescoeseees enaziresdio Sieds ‘o[va pure soziudd uo jo sjeyshig
socececosscecoeecornds ‘o[to pur soyidd uo yUoSeply
oviclsisnieyeie ejs.98).cfee) seiaieleie, tavssaesciesieis/alase()ispeascerss.t:* 20 0:8) 4/86) 91/8 reese era OGG
Steere eee eee teeta ete e estan etone nee ttr eee ee rse seer eres tO
teteeeeteereeeceess stustid papis xis ‘ivds ‘oreo puv soyadd uo jo sjeyshIg
Deen eet ete etree teense ee eee eee sO
sieie eee ce cies see pTOTed PUB SsepitAd. u0l]
sees e ee tee ee eget settee en ee esse esses ees tog
ee ee reeee
sjejfa loreieve sieieiaeie:e jeje ¢e\0l@iejeise sje sis, aelexeje. s) €c\iys ote, sia, clieleonsieusis/ o\eLseisieucislenexe ses Oy
seen eee eet e eect eee ete ee ee eee e ero seerseeeseseeseeeseee ees tory
teen ee ropr seein estes renee tees sees cog “++ quousry v ‘soyadd om jo apoied out [erpayryzoo ‘vuetes pur soyadd uo jo apouyavd omy Lee ee ete ee eee cece arene tena etre scone t test te cee sarees esses sO
cose cece ee seee eee eeeeererreers ngziteyshio ‘euaes pur soyidd uowt oury voce ce see tite eeeeereeeos enuares pur sazidd oly
COO LOD vs ssnossardam “euares pur sozAd uoxly arayee sien eee tee eee sees tronics esereese ss tog
slaleyS Sis i000 6 Vole 6) sake 0/6he) Sa iyenge turgee.* *2 Laie S SOC], sipie 8) 6.0 0 elee ee ole cies wen a ee 6 seis. siele\ee'eieisieie ee. 2) lease ye * age peume © eos OCT
tee sop: “oq
beeen tear eet e eee ee eeronree eer eeeesees sod
te eteeeseees se srprpayryoo ‘vueeo pur soyudd uoly
ee ree ere re eer eee ete eee etre eee see ee ese ees e0ee
‘ “uorydirasaq
ayIOT UYOL AT hq pa}99)]09 ‘syssof pun ‘sato ‘sppLaurut ‘syd fo 9n.00]0)D)
Se rn oe Oe ee
*xoq
| | | | | |
suauttoeds
cS vs so ' cs
Tg 0S 6P 8P LY ov cv bP €P GP If OF 66 8& LE 9€ cé bE €& of I€ 0€ 66 86 LG 96 GG FG
‘ON OAISSd1501g

<<<Page: 645>>>

*op* eee ‘op* eee ‘op’ eee ‘op’ eee
se eropre cee teeeeleeccececeecereesccsecee tee ceeecuees
**suistid popis xis ‘1vds ‘ope Ess 0s 66 trees poztpeyssio ‘avds ‘apeg Loss LG +6 srerslereletereiere tree og To Fg £6 mee 0 (i T» | 29 66 hea LOY I> €€9 16
S205 |e NCIS ati an ank deals Gam RaanBER,. 2). Tiss GEO 06 RICRT Oo feY aa alee ee SESE gRiCKOas Ness eN egies GS ASienOL.8: S1ee's) Sie, Si Sheis ie iekgs foo) Sis er eisies sei O ay Tess 1€9 68 sieve 2D shore eeeele eeeee Sissies er ere aie) #7 gler siege) Sie) See) S810) ae slop eretelen eke Weer 278) Serene OG Tess LIQ 88
s9/550 pulessis <ongeee IORI) 9 ORD SOE) IO ous relemeneel* CORY 0) of) UNO OL 0) oF) OR DOI oF HGS RIL 0 oS NG POC a) OO DFO 0 0 SOS
terete eres eee ee cog ae res 18
Sponcpiesstie49.cic®. % 2 4) * ° OCT I 99 LOG 98 epixoied pur sozsdd uosy ” 90¢ ¢8
tt teeeeeeseeeee sod
: ‘oq
T T I I sicueseie/eheis) eiese 0 slereiersieius “TUG OSODIIL ‘soqpudd uody Tess €8 18 I I \ I
Sete eee ee eee tect ee setae ee ceee seen s sOrT Pere eee ee ee ee ee ee te setae eee teee eee s soc
sis-sie, oxoueei ees siscieks) els ex9h0) Gl
sesso ayy ul ‘soytutd ul] seesoprres sereeerivds ‘ole pur vualesy T 9» €& 9L epetel OD pean Siehsie aie slesaie cle, cfs SONTAG uod] Thos 96 CL se ecoprseseerees Se i i cc ia ic ec 7 (el ‘o[vO Jo uOTRUTUL sercopresererees| -19} [RUOSRJUsd oY} JO WO, oY} Suryez soysdd snoydiowopnosd pur vualex Tess ¥6 tL $1951 O Pee. *, 2:8 508,930, *)|esersioiwie.e, Jeiele eieie ereie ceieyeisigisve/sielceis siciese.e “(epese.c sities: YOO T-TadLosUlesSoullAdguOay] les & €L seesoprececsrseciecsscecescerereseees oor pasoduovap ul ‘sazyiAd uot pure tuapes pezy pasodmovep ul ‘saydd UO put euUales [vIpaye}IO Tess Lt9 IL ‘opr’ Se eseeceoeseeecoooes imipayexoy ieds ‘oyva put vus[vd [eIpayLjoO Pes LLY OL copes (pozi[[eyshioep vuayes jo aovzins) ivds ovo pur vus[es [wIpoyrjoO T»» 96 69 se ODE sree (TeIpayeyjoo Busyes Jo UOJ) 1eds ‘oyro pue vue[es passordury Tes 6 89 ORG) 6) 2D CC a ces (al ‘o[vo puv vus[es possaiduy Toss LS LO seesopres weet eee teeter ee teeereeeeeeesree sounds ‘ofvo puv vuapes o1qny a CZ 99 eeeropess teeeeeees voor snolorpis MoT[as ut ‘aeds ‘opeo pure saydd uodt o1qng Ts GOS c9 DaOC(0) sjoieis sie) ie: sie 078.0199 8. TTT STIG qloys ul ‘ieds ‘ovo pur soytudd UOT DIquyO Lo ,08F +9 sse-op ss Sir 0:07 sieidile sie) eisieievene ici sere oie sehaie e's: sce cre Crenekuese aces enue se ec. Gl To» | TQLP €9 seesopres sessopres sescoptes seesopree se ssopres
Mis. Doc. 24—24
weer oe sees eee ose ee tee eso eer eote ee eeeeseee
SOLES EEE TEL RITE ECHL OSCE ra a ed AGRA Bs Al ade ek ae Abe ga ee TOR Ny SAMIR IRD LORIE)

<<<Page: 646>>>

@oeeteereseeeee
*ApTRIO'T
opts opie: opr:
(0) 0 ee TAD
TEX 0} 0 ROS OKO) OOOOOD CHG) oO IG SOD iaScy ete OD aas sop" sOpes
‘opt'* ‘opts ‘opts ‘opt: ‘opts ‘opts ‘optt* ‘opt ‘opt ‘opt ‘opre* ‘opt ‘opt
‘opt ‘opts ‘opts topressstres *sarsy enbsoeig
eine eee sseeeres ee essseeeeereee
soprestteees ‘oprrttsssee sopretrtesee
eleaeeveseeeceerseeeeesrseeeve sre ee
elee ec eesseee sec eeeoerer eee ee oe
oleic 9. 0\sere 6-0,s cee jeveleiesieieie.* (Ott Cleo Puy ioddoo jo jornydyns ‘ieds ‘o[eo Yorvlg cece ee ee teeter eseer see een ssesesrers ss sSOisaqse pur BUB[LL) OOO DRO OO Oe Nae tee) Ge) YyIM ‘7,.1enb jo uleA & UL opus[g o\(e' 0) 0 (810)i0)16 :6/8)'685 8.6 salle le ele) sé. ieee «ie: sine she ROLSOUS Ee pur soyudd uoly Sas. @ te eee eeeeeeeee sso see esc eeetreeecovevereress DUAR) Sakeielelelsele|sisi¢/ae\.e\e) 0's 08) 0)2 sex TB IDI ROOPOD. “RUa[R+) ***[RIpayeospop OU sutssed ‘;RIpeyeyoo ‘vua[ery
ete eee ee eee eee rnee ee tee cesses sceeess sory
ee re eee eer eoeseoese sess eroee
eeseee ereeeecesee ers eee
eoee ee te
sheen cece teen ec er eee sree es OT
die).0 50-8 0,j0) en4.e ene ze.she (ualensis)iajepsic161p).0/8\°* #084018 056) 0 Oeil cece cece corte ce seccnerecesereesceccee OT #0. te 050) 9{9,0;0.s10)8 ()'e.0.8) 0,8 sei eon2e 2< TRINDOULIOO ‘nue[tx) ++ ++sreysfio ey)
see c eee r ete csrececinccsssccecscoess set
s'060:0.0. aie tai oie 9.016 018.070 ©1asie 0 eieiele.cpie)e)Weceieses oO see e ce reer eeceeesecscosoorereeesripds ‘Ovo PUB BUITY) © 000 00 0.0 6 © 60:0 0 0.6.06 01080 te 6 (6 6 1 esiele/eejere.sieieie ee 8:8 APO soeeee TeIpayvoapop ‘nua[exy ec rnccccesececcoses MO SM OIC OSC EOI oY ¢ |
eoeeeeseee *[RApst[Lyoo ‘Rua[eyy)
reeesrog tees erod
sree ee eeeee eso
See CCL oY @
eeseoeee
eeeeseee
eevee ere
eee tne e cece e ee cecerseessseess MINI eIIpOp ‘pugley CPCS ate ha ielicaeg heer (| kq poulryor ‘yeipoyexoy ‘ivds ms) he)  ivebeid dlnta Vio vee 0.6 Wie.e\s) visiele Oe «i wes els /ane # eletotetermereseproierisncde eTOCs 100} 5oq eo eee enecessncceetgeveseseeee vf sees quoiedsuriy} OWI ‘onbrdo Lohr]
‘panunu0g—ayo07 uyor qT hq p2i2aqje2 ‘spssof pup ‘sao ‘s7p.souru
‘sy904 fo anaojvqvy
‘suourtoods
vel €coL Gel Ie OT 6IT SIL LIT 9IT CII vIT eI GIL IIl OIL 60T 801 LOT 901 cor FOr £01 GOT IO OOT 66
"ON OAISSo1D01g

<<<Page: 647>>>

ee ee eseeeeeteee tease eevteeeeeteaeeaseseneeseovee BIDI9IG SNOLDITIS V UL azIVrUloY poy 4. se eeee ss QUOISPURS PO1O}[V UBOIG UT 10}}VUI SNOLOI[IS pol JO UIOA B JO JUOUISeI .
— R ei
T T|I T T I I I I! T T I T I T I \! I IT» € LvT I I T I I I I I I T T T T I T T T I T
N al cl & ~
eo rt Lael
Bi De SLRS SPI GSI 08:8) 99) 225.9, Be RSE Se Gee Ie. e ww fete. ie aes Be:e ene) ob saie c aha a iRrolEarme Beak aLOdT
jor) i=) rs
x [aces #100: 8c 0 ia * S789: Sele Le salege Oxe (esis (Pi eserereregeiexehene ope ieusioseseieiscsiie se iele Sle tepereoherenieiO (i
fe 2) i=) a
Pit cisie tse ese, See eisie: eee sie ekerejen sine oie) s ise eseisicje.s #.cit *hoks ie 6usseies9-0s°:= O01] BOO UN POTRAN GTS
~~ So re el © =
see s"UOE pur OUI, Jo oyeuoqivy serereeere SCs s eisiniwin 6 eise s: esie's: oS SRO BOUIN UT
S[PueaPaeishesseeyesissereseneigeneneiarcrte x8 ONG ese. 6 :6i8)8,eNe.es 0) 25 Leverersieisieueis.s) ear eeNe!ex8 exeisteye lei gay
S i=) Vo) oQ © rm
oO = oe 1 un lo oer) LQ Ad bes S|
|r ee eeeerewene secenereresersseeeeeseeeeeeeseees senses see seee ee see sorT
= > wa tr Ve) ro
GS rmieastense Sacktio ieueaese-arsciPiatucish eg Pdieseiensieneissciei eeueseresusaessiel see) eleiedeciolesge-e ehe!s ¢ OTANI GUTOR
ee ee reese eseerseooeorsesoe *snouLondIay AIOA ‘yoo dexy, seereees goddoo jo ‘qivd YIM poysnious ‘ouoyspurs Avi) a} #:0:91616:830;4)8(010)8,0,80 00,0101 ¢5/8,018.9.90:8.0.9,45OUT IT JO “GIG OuTUIe}yUOD ‘auoyspurs pe1sz,V . sre,@ieseiesseseie.9 <e,ece/ee(senevere siesieseieece.sie s/s 81 BUO pal JIM euojspues Aris pure pew tlre ereeeceeccerceersoeeseraiopida WOI YSIUIIIG ‘BU0JSpULS Poto} JO oJLUOGILO SULUIe}UOD ‘auO4sUIO A
aca) i 0 0) Oa a CUO OGY
ore) ON mG 1 CO Vee) rir
Co rt IG aVeTee
ooo mt OOD 1 19 10 10 ra et et
lop) S wD Loon |
oD lo 3 er) b= = ere
Oh exPued SiPLOKOieee Os Ser eENG GeasususseKye.ieies ese) SiG ppieeuexeieiesexsie. 0,0 SnPsPEVO Jy %s esta S0y22e0.sgiescieseeiiOgy
ejeeeeeererees eae eee eee eeerr ee eee eeeeeeeeeee ee ee aysed ystusois vw fq poeyueul
-09 redspay Jo speysd1o pure zz1enb jo sayqqed Suturezuos ‘ouoypurs AviS os1v0_9 sfrecccccercreccecceesvocercsee s-QuOIspURS po}yeINpU! WO’ Zend snoutsn110 7 Jie ee etreneeeeecsreceeeesececeasaceerseesesssessesessseerniipnh Asn s | Pasaeneisieseksie je,edeielioie\ejeje.eibivie) eeseiee se @Ktsleeie cscs gts /e 2 DOL SNOIlIs uMOIq Ul ZyIBNY eeteeee teeeeese s+ dviy ul Auopoyorg feeeoune yoor SNOTDITIS clos eeveereercrvecscososcccossoersessevoo] SNOULONIIOS @ Ul uloA zyrenb ][eus
sleiereie.aigeieneieiexenexsiaisrereje ieee .ehe.eiei dis lereekel sie eleseteieieseieceexeteilene sokele telco OOUMSLLOLO ITI
RX =) = et
Se) RX re Lan s Lan
tS 3 oraetr Sete ~-Oao of of) CY) <H re rt eet ed
# | sue, exe 00ie4e0\0 18) ¢,0:¢1 901 0;0,0)0K9\0) 910,010 :0,610,8,8)8:49: 8,006 0.01%, (0,009 ele,s, eu sieieieo/*.2 74 END ASIC,
toeeeeeeoednry ut radsel Jo suta A ON COC OCbOGO IC on seer ee emiooarq rodser Cote eevee ececsrersooeccurocccerers pit ul sodsef jo ULOA -snoulsel Jo ula A ceceree ‘eeee*-quojspuRs snosovolut poyzinput ut radsel jo ula A te eeseeceeceecoeeeoss stig ayvor Arodsel pasoduiooseg wore erro ese eer ee see oes soytadd Jo uorlypisodurosep
wo poatiop ‘umnsddS Jo sopnqops 4q popunosins soyadd Sutureyuos ‘avds ‘opwg Bisiereie\oisieieiojeie'siajeia,s) de :si¢\sie\0je,eie/0QT)* 919188 :6:9)9)6)8|sh01e/e/eieeieioversieejaieieei9i0iees88.9/0:8.°.° BUOTRS pue soqadd uodl ‘ieds yj00}-S0p §24.L0N
eoeeseeeeerese seers
= ice) = v=) Ge) rm
oD wo o 14 oe) ta
NAAN ComnN Sa mI RQ oD mo Les hh |
tle ev ecw aes eoesseerre
for) jor) S oe) re
oie a} an rs On AN non]

<<<Page: 648>>>

Srakerakeyeisieierensiererenrele ery castosaiekeieteners
seeeropersseeeres
se eesoprrereesee tee op: seessoprereeeess
thee etre cress eergnereeeeeeee
sKolsksteioieieKei siete eKeexeislQiy'e
tees sop: teeeesope
seen eee n eee ener sanrrereeeees
sie, siakesa,eiskelese/sisisisicnelg ps
seer eeee sesso sons
teeessop:
skoselensiesesa:eiekeiensiexsisisign fyencieieses crease te
settee ee eeeeeeeeronerecereees
te s8sop: tess op:
shekepskeses SiesajeieieneserosehsigpeycicKereyeiexeseis
shsjaiessioxeinseinyeicieseisieyeicy Fysisietelersseiereis
reeeesope reese sop: stees sop:
extjeheioie tones siexeaend px eiexei CQ Tpiefsisstisisyevexexe
shee eee eee ereeeeronr scree eees
SpiekeusieyeceisiepeieveieieienuQ Ty rier eueisioreneiete
tee eeeeeecone seer eeeerope
ier ereieeie/®:2:e/90\0i9.0\9-2 persis; eexeierexexe
Rialelesakexesiesessieini@is'es® (1) ese: exelereceieteie
Sisiasisiexeleieisicieieie'e'©/si 8157 anbsaig
*AyI[RoOrTT
S{0 18101016 ovO LOLS 1OFe. 0 KONOASLOUSTE GS PLS AACIAKO ACLS SASS {Oh 017° SOSIS ISDA eae enceae enpekgle Sh: ONG 1S O}I[NOBAO NT sent e eee e tence e cease caresses seen eee saeeeaerree ence sess = OT ITAO KI aes cacao oo TOL LO) 0 FO eee (0K (][ Sete te ease tees eeerope esses ees OCT seen eee ete eee eeeronr er reeee sso DeKeess ale jeiensigie:e esi OLOTOO qeip ‘OP[NIVAON Leen te ee eee eee ete e tee tn eee ee teen enna eens tase eee etre eee eeee ss OCT | ween eee eee cece ere ee eteetees eee sours ARID) siererere see's pazels pur uot Jo apixosad YyIM poyeod 94r]s poy
oxsieusieiiviese ieee ejoleieieiSies© e®seneie\ehepeneierieksiasaiesee/seieie-siee.0;cie1wiere (ie exer lel ca Gy.
eee sere tre ee sre ee reneeseoe
ee emeoreeeeeieoeeestnaeaeres
vente eee e tenn teen eee e tee e eee e ene ereseeeeeteeee reser sees eOIDIS DIY eee ee eeeeseeeseeeseseeessna7EId PUT UOII JO apIxolod YIM payvoo 94vIs poy beseeeeeeesog stew eee rere etree cee e ee snaeeeseaeseseseeseesessessssindspfay pasodwoosep pue uoll Jo aprxoiod ‘zj1vnb Jo suleas Jo pasoduioo ‘auojspuvs poy
setae eee presser ee tees ropreeree eee tee ees sopireteceesiseee ss
ttre eee eeopreseeesererseessonresteeeesteee es rope es
SX OLOFOKO) 00; 0/6100 0N 0) 0,0) 001i ORO: 6.0,0).06,0/0) 0.01010) 041A) 00-010) 0) 0) 00,82) 6101018) OL ease de Ou eSLE OLS OTIOIS
-purs snosovorm pure Aakydiod Suruiejuoo ‘poyeinpul oyesawo0Z
806 LOG GLI ELT ccs bsg PLT OLT OFT
6&1 Sel
LEI | 9&1 CEL PEL €€L CEL I€I O€T 661 8éI | LOL Cel LLI 99T €9L 0GI
acs Shia
L6I 961 C6L r6L €61 c6I 16. 061 681 881 LsT 98T cst
c8T Isl O8T 6LT SLT LLT SLT CLT tLI ELI GLT TILT OLT 69T 89T LOL
*suouttoads| ‘ON OAIs JOON | -sa1501g

<<<Page: 649>>>

Ae [aiesermeeroheieiesie oie leieeis eel akerererecyryoseneisieXexe eens 2 ae aia
DOO.) (2/5 Iq &q POUWIETAT;) e/e-eteiaKesieieioiereaietereieieg cy era ehelaisisieidie sO (7 siiszeisneiessic.si" SQ [rie ct eee iers eee eee eee era eae eleeeeie eel anciepor ecu seat sie cn ee ROTO MOOdOO.6 Caney
cece econ ee saprresecered Yeresesesscesrereressreceeseeessmevecsseoesionrerssss recesses sory
| s9¢ BEB
p9E LEB 098 986 PoE CES BCE axe Tse £86 GPE GES OPE 18% GEE 0&6 IST GES OSI 8G ns. || 65 L8G m || 1680 96 » | igIg C&G | Se 7G mn | BSL ete | UST GEE || GSE ited > | ges 08% a ae 616 1 IG RIG 3 .i| teee LIG i | Sor 4 Se n | SORE C16 896 ac i | S096 at 5 | 98 GIG st COM fata ‘x 1) ton 016 3s | ON 608 | ater 80% » | 06F LOG » | 68F 9% || ee S06 ‘ 18h 506 sl eet £06 » | 88h GB » | #8b 106 a 1h Sm 008 » «| (998 661 » | 98P a6r
seen ee eer ee eee eesteeserrr ran rsereeesel Wreeeee
eoeeeeee
sees te eee cena tre eseeereroprerseseces| Dieereeeee eres eeieaeeetre coer esses aera ress essoneseeseseeee ene e sort
SKaske feieieiscioleielG p) sisieieereneretare c Ce eceees ZaIUNndD ul aio 1addoo aiding
eeeeeee
eieiexelese)00}0-0.0,0.9\40'0)¢ eee. e.0'8:e8)*'* IG TTUOONLG, 14 HOU OO OU OIOK ZOO OOOO OO.G OI AON OL EO SOOT OSORIO TOM CoA C2 ¥0 (0K 05) atding
Soe ecsovcccrsccansrasereaes sores sesess iseser seeesesrsceee censeeeereerovesterestsseusesseseeesiesstornig OIIt0[UD
steeeeeeeeecoprrsscecees! Weecentereerececseecerecaetesessreeee sees cece eeisee ee tee eee es erOrT
see eeee BORIC | oO ab
teeeroprerseeeceds
elerO Deoss woe" <4 ehelens!clcelecerecetsciel dicis\ slelsisiusvele ie.
settee ee eeesece sree es soupuiay Poy *e*** 90 WOM SNOLDITIS 100g eee ner erceeesoeveerranig uoll Auodsep
esQprerertereslseeecereeeeseecsseeseecsceeee eres seeseee seers ce see ssn re reeecees sOry
shOLG [ile one iuiesoueig he syevere share eelecie)©)s/e}eielie\e19) 01 ie) 2
Hence reese ropr es eeee sees tog *++*spunq Arodsef yytM 9.10 uot poy
Stee sete eect ee stonr ese rer rete ee eropr eee eeeee ee sO
ssroprrtteseese SoCOPr reer sees slseecscresscrcecccccssescers seeping PaAInoO—spurq Aradsuf yytan 910 UOMI pay SSHOpr ese sstessle secre cece ccsrecesteceeeseeereceseessceseeseeeaaeereetr sete ser uy shes 1 pencuelarers eke’ sfelolcieraisicls eloislsle/aleleles.sieiesxslelvisleie)siessosielcel(Co aT Gy Aq poutezayy esses 0g seropresteseees Sore e eee eee eeereeereee® O10 MOM ILNURLD seieieieiee es osesssceosevess* aOndiI0D O10 uodl Ayes **QUIUL UOSHOUS [toes eceesrececesseeeccceescrscesessececcsonccverses sesessr gig OIL AIBIG SHLQpt eter re et tlte ete w eee e ewes ter ceaeecare sere seca eereeeeee ee cares ener see ae ees Sot Soropreeseesecsiseececcceccccesccuecscureeeeerer(«r src fq paulnyay) sree ttes 220g ‘o0T] purleaag[y |* ot cio ee oe 91° O10) UOT POtiqoeduos
seeeropreeteeeeesls Stee ee iee stews eee ee soneees soy
sTeleQ pie csusrsereiene exaloceje:oleie(sie: sfevehe vie sieisie eee 0s (cy Id sq POUIBIOT,)*.* 88 ere es 8 OH ase OG ore Lal )suepersitredeneseis | ckezeieleishorsinislelelvelslereissrerelele.eie ols ¢sieleceis}+aje/e sisie ete) si'] 0/8) eisvele sieieieiele Ops ses“ oq s+ ouLUL Uosyous  #19 fOP ieserwisi sieves 4 eceeeere oie oie ETT OLS pur ZWUNY GORDO OTLONGY |p
Perper seeeesls cece ere eseeser eee ereeeees: eereecesarasecurereressaasce sree sees FOrT
selOpuee ceca
ore ere e eee er erase
see Onze werele silt eee eee r esse eee see
ose ls Op eiejeieseielocenehs) cheb cx cierexex Siexet oi eles exe ielelelexeleisie laces r) chess lenele cle vekese ereiere) ore DOOD OIC e IRAE OOM HAIG 10 41
teers QSUY, TT [Prete ere eres c etree teow ectcecceeeceessececsoeessesesss7i pnb SNOULSNIIIT seropresreteteelese sete tree cree entree eres eeeseresereseziipnh SNOULSNIIA J BD (6) OOO RE OL) +++ *-redsplaj posodmooap pue zz1enb ‘auoyspurs poyeinpuy THHOPT Te ttt e te tee eects eee e reece eeeeeeeceerres dps} SuLA[I9A0 oUospurs Azy1eNb yordui0g
Steet teen eee etter eres eae rape rstnsste tle ee ereneneete tee eeessersea cere eeseeeerarescseseerrereessonoyspurs ALI
Demieeda dads wth ore dob ko ch hoe OE Cte we oe) elejw ej elsareleieseiey {ele erates eoxeleles) oreiee sisiexe\eslereselelecieiere ei: “eli eUmouiel sa Ugo, pey
POLIO ORICA OS IR E Hae eR nga 0 0 MA aed SEM th REC RCC ACT HOC ASC EE ORI SAT ORR BUG LEU NE
ee ee ce ee ee oe ee oe oe ee oe ee oe oe hee helio ene ener) ~

<<<Page: 650>>>

@eoeeseeeen
eoesee
eoee
eoee
eevee
eevee
CATE FE SLI 9 FCO CB CENA) 0 RT RTO) 0 Me aD OCHO CHOC) 9 ROC OS ORE prieg sleet seo OTisus erelexeersiese sisgeceie 2)" OES onc'eis\s:s 0.8 TET OY oO IOC ORY SSCS ICC 0) CRORE IC SAC SECS ACK 0) 0} Dg SS LROR IOI 0} 0 J SEU etae di OCHO) 9 Ea ae Sas eP le POD WY Vnisieetan: LONE ieee Pe SS OD ees ETS A 0 0 SDM He S989 SAIOD Bie ausieasi ey #18 s9i9 i818 Oygieientis ele ies SIL HTICY 0} 0 PIE SE ER 25552 912 LO Make: "heise sien er® CSCIC 0 PRIS oe e SO DES Seis :s:0 °° oa Siete OMEieis Pcieiese. ss PACA 0 0 f OCR ACROR BEML SURE) § FR cg eat EP APSA) 0) Set Mn a RRC 0) 0 ARI RRC alia CEES BN 0) 0) SE Peis is)8 ODES jecie:sisie.* RH a (0) 8 HOR EA Rs Rd EP MAL 0) 9) Se a Seis OPS ie)*st8 Sereie S
eeretuiew ODEs *.* e\s,ei2ie
she ees ouTUT oOnIg
-AyyRoo'T
*‘panuyu0g—ay20T uyor -iq7 fig paj2ajj09 ‘spssof pup ‘sao
eee eee re eee penes BERET Bia e HS Spe as EERE SPH S wd aE ie CLOG ee eee 2 oe ek ee eee eae er ene ee sb ese OCT | gE ORE FE OIA OGL AE ECGS I ag RII OLE O17 TR Die eC eae Sore 8 Sb Oh oe bw eee FRM TT MES 7c W Oke caeeremianet gee iy cee acne es 330 (I eres SS PESTS TS Eee mege Paiele BiRiSe 80. dte eueeieal asin ieiiagn earsttseres esse ieieeiejo'e |e. a) e ere oie.le, ©t olel els sels vieieleis\se 0, eie:8e clerelerssrefecayeine aieie ‘oq vans be pte be 8 cs sis. 20S Revie p< V RN DR SMR e s 6 es oP ae epee thee IO Seu ed case CREEE CERO SN ENTE ADRES EERE MEE Ca. oe Coe Ce ee OU ee eas eae oaks o coke ee Coe CaO EA CG DAULDIO Ny, ooo neers sar De ee eee uses o sa'ad SW io a eee NER eee OE SEE ee spas ect TU SS eee OCT te 's woo oe oo a oat © 4 de Go bo PhS CP eS ee ROMA MAD ey Ss oe mee eS Sel lela, OMT Fee E SS PEE sien ee 586 oes Steele ieee eet ear yritig t.titisisieie)8.e/2.220° On STias bal Nw Nes ose ee Swick ww Si oR RAO ne Omen had Op PEA pes oe eed Sf! S OT) Hee eee ee eee eee eee hc eee Ueneucnerlote eels e sve 26 se sonttAd ad dor), pe OUI ASE OIA IOC TORSO ICA EAT NAMIC LS OCIA 0} RMIT RIE RN | Due Peet eee sees eee ee coeene ences veceees sense 0 enh mnseyadaaddos Qnad tes boa ee ae Se 6 ow ***zjaddoo JUBDSOPLIT YIM ‘7y1e0nb ul sopadd saddog Fg OSES VOOR LOE SOR SX BENITO LOL MAI NEMIMY ANH 75 ila) ut soythd saddog (9 TIO Re RR i Meat eM OLA MR RAGING) | YN Ee HONG AKIO YS)
Te asatawatee b 6 te Bas wae eee me Se OS Se OD eer AOS Psi i828 210 i GoLite essere cece ceccssecesseccewccrecgnr essere soniecsese seco Fe a SB 6111) pur sopitd roddoa ojdaing ichaes weave ae ch here, wish Se ers © @emse Cae tow Rise Ae eM RE e Oa eer Eee eee We Ngee Ce ae Be ees Sc cee Monica Gabe Le) o> ema pabpiatey bere tees CcOGT Pirro sees cesececccrcceserececssssscessecccseeseesesecesseses osQ7 FS SS piace were ee TS Be OS RO SL Oe M5 Su bien 6 nwo algbage: O gkalekel” fepee oa amp eknOG) ie Cider eee tas een eke 8 abe oe ce on sa PCS Re ae as We og PRL a aol cee Cf Weis op cc SO ewe eS eye ewe SRLS CRS ee OS deca CEO ve se Mae CeCe ees Ol Yrs ers se eer ccc essccssevccwccrccsecaccsesscecessensseevesens ceriQry Waw estes nome Me ere wns ks be SSS age Be Ree OS Ce eae eT Pe ee ae acc coca |
NU7is) SS Sie ie tlsiexeis ciaysieie oeeisie)s s/s) sive s\eiejse'e.*\ 24/9) s s)cise 0) #ieie \e)si ole) 010 ciel isiclepe LO (Ti
OOOO UO OCEAN EC ORL ORO LOE UIT INIA TOGA) Fa, saddoo ojdung
‘uordriiosaq
wwe we we eee we eS eS ww ee ee
vw ve
‘syp.cauaue ‘sy904 fo ansojDIv_
I8€ O8€ 6LE BLE LLE GLE ELE OLE 89§ LOE 99€ €9€ 9SE GSé €Sé ChE ere GrE Ore Ivé 9EE cee Il? OTF 80¥ LOV €0F L6E b6E 886 LEE 9LE VLE
‘suouttoeds JI ON
TLE OLG 696 896 L9G 996 G9G F9G £96 9G 196 096 656 866 LGG 9G6 GGG PSG €S6 G&G [SG 0SG 6FG 8hG LVG 9FG SVG PPG EPG CVG 1vG OFG 6&6
‘ON OAISsa1s01g

<<<Page: 651>>>

eoeesee
eles wm eoweseoeeseeereeeeeeer ee tee eeseeee estes eeseeee iedsplof pue® epuaquioy ayUsIg . Gyre Sena ss2 wie wala olay e see lomanel¥i9\e 9 # 28/0) Fel e/a eieink ae el eer ae PasOM OOS ‘oyUelg
. Fey a OSES Wd Ct ASAIO TE TRIB ih BOSSA ECE SN DOO SOOO OY
a fvieroielexeheleie'a:¢ eis (ee) sieieie oleae ialeie¥e/eeyele.eieie see e/eitsieieisjeieeieisisleie) oteleicotece sey OL Csi)
Coe eee e corse cecrreceseecsrecceseressoreers OUTS OUI[GUIIsal ‘yoor dei y,
aseervecce Sexelsisieleiarasiesiele)ie c/s sieleiniciceie;/eXc~osrehshege Wa Oo dexy,
e) a i @) [Cth ee ete nese eee e cess ene eeetree seas ecereees ceases snpe se se ss sO Viti trettsesssessessecsssessecesscessecesessoresconigydsod yoor dea, "| Grececcresseerececesceeeeerpdspray pur opusfquioy Jo Sulysisuoo ‘yoor deay, we e.8, 5 e\epalolsis)'s
. Dee ee eee eee eee ee te ose ee ey pee ee WS as oe oe poten ce meee eT
. AVIV oe VS Sasi s SNS SHS TINS SOR Se se 8 cies re Soin ies erree O10, 100 UOORABIX)
|i Se ceeeereceeeeeee eee eeacteseeeseee ses eeateeersionesesereeeesee es sory
oe releeersielesiseicie SOTED us016 YIM poyroo ‘910 r9ddoo Avy
ev oesecsreeeseoteeosertsee eee Teens Sw as © ons ao GT
Se a
sree esse s(Sguimr ayy Jo AlaAOoSIp ysIy) ‘qed WeeIs pue zyIe~nb—o10 roddoo Avy . 7 sie shesie'g sieh arene wiseieerere ee eee eee ssc wuee yas tee lst ek SOLO staddoo Avery UIOA T]VA SazuaIs UT soytUkd raddoy
Stet eeeee seer eeeeeeesretes Og
POSS SHI IN RN DEON TECHCENTER ii HLA CEMA SIE DY DI OSD DIOS OOOO DCO. OG ODIO DOU CISC EE ERIC PEO OLIO OOOO, 2 ay
Lee en ener eee e cere tena eee en cess esteaseeeserascrseesserreesee es SOT
Deleiere sls, wie telsreselsiegieveleleels stent eo ence tere oereeecreerseseeses OT
sete eeee eee ee sess ogg
sfajjoiaierarereseraiglajefelela le cie\eree eiei'e\¢(eu e's ejeissie si alelscielero\anee ec ceis = | SOG
FECRCO OOOO CI SOOO: OCIS OOH ROOK TCC ELL OOIO OED DOT I i IESCILE ET (oy (|
aejayale/s"epleree/sicel/ere 0/6. ¢ei6/)¢) ¢:4\e)0, elwicias.arsisjeje icicles laieceieics e's 00 OCT
seat eeeee erst tereteeeees so
eceeeeeroeeseoeeooe
. ° © ° . ° . ° °
sid {aisheisinse\'aley'eaieleseieiapisiejaileiceiexoisiniseic pie aieieie) sie) eit ele). s/els iene ej ejereve} eG Gy
aH hey ¢
@'sretere e's) oie tovete'e\eieLelehesieieieislenvele/ejelesieieio esse aise ee) sievciee encore schense es 2s OM
“| oie fele)-eLefejn iwieysiesaie! ¢ieie\ she sherst sie: €) «ee eieisoiahe) ei'e)'s oie; sia, e. 6.4/0.4) 0) eigelc o.cisisis.e 5°92)? OC
. CRESS esis CPP PLS Bie eS SOS Cees ef OS MEO y Seal ee Te Te. OG
rr ) ee
we ewe ewe ee ewe ewe weve we vw ww wee ewe ewe eee se wee ewe we we
Glgé Ilé Os 606 806 LOS 90€ SOE bOE €0€ G0E T0€ OO€ 666 866 L66 966 G66 P66 €66 G66 166 066 686 886 L8G 986 C86 p86 E86 G8G 186 086 6LG 8LG LLG 9LG GLE PLG ELG GLE.

<<<Page: 652>>>

SispsUReisaejayesesierajsieiseieresmieiteisveiene gy *
elntelaiey esieieie) *j¢/s\ejeieL9i¢9,;°\9.9\019/°:2\*G 1° ateloispahariajeieyesdieveneins,si*,e/e/89\ei°\°i%* O°
see e eres ene ete eee cans
Or OTIE PN SCO a} 0
OOOO SILO os
SKCLs,Sisheaehoiesepsjeivieseisiniejese/e)teie. 2.0.92?
ste eee eee enero serene es rmOg pURIy “top?
+ sop" ‘op ++ sop: ++ sop: ++ op
+++op ++ sop"
‘op’ ‘op"
teeter eee eee tree essays
ste tere eee teeeeee ees rane
neiele\sinsen @iei8i9 4iEiPie\*4°i*. ODE
“op: * op: + sop
settee tree ee seer ress sons
‘Az RIO'T
esceee
eereee
S1eNPMPP is u88ue iP A2/9)¢9\°4948,0.8\ 8. O 1 2.° 2-2. =e.
erence
iy oe
** puvys] purrs
sesoprrtcseees seroptrtstees
**9ulul Bond JO JSaM SoyTUL G
Sis serieiP lee) eoie,eve Piece i2:¢:°/**OUTUT sonig
Baigieiavie\sia sl OU eesa die sieieresesegnsiene*.e.e cee sreeisicceoneciccsce esece dog
COO DOIN NCH 0} of Ar OCA G oasCu nt ne Uf 0) ACs aa IC CHOY 0} 0 SIAL NOICICIEY 6 (|
Fees ee eee nroprerseeeeeieeee sop st sseeseeetecee scopes secerese ee tory
* UOATJO OPIXO JO saTNpPOU pur IUOISPUS dM Ul UOAT JO OPIXO YULM poulejssopupo py sented eee teeta e eee e eter esate ec teee ee sreeeerser sree sess SOTIOISPUULS OSILOD
$ ohm Bie ie Si Mises SeeiensnoisprergicieWeeie sisieievcieelepereiencelc.e.0° 29:00:00 .2le 00 PONE us OM]
eeeeee
eaoveoe
S1sKOie ReKPisheioneneheiohehel *ishehe) *ieissiejejse.e.°.0'0.6:910i8| cil eiepcici On pisivice ce O ay
89 PIS 200 8 #\0\0 e915 \Piceies\eieiep clsisivcees 0.6 ¢ cic *:9UO|SPULS OULU MOU Li, SOOO TO HOCNFCRSOR CRIT 9 Pca ROL IAEA OY siclsisiclss Sisiele_ssieieusisielsisieis.°.*.8'°.°.° S110] Ss PUES Avis pur poy
SOLE TORCHCL ECE IS IOS IC RICH CURTISS ir a Ma Sta OY (jf
Soe e reece etree er eceerrecenreeeecereeeressees s-OUOISPURS POY
tte enone tee eee ree eee eeeeeeree ee csree er rrsone ttre es OCT
tees 0g **-guoysputs ALIS osIt0D Meee eee eee teen etree ee eneetenseees sors a} O[YO poyranpuy
ee LOM LOREM EL AIMCO IOI OK POMP ORIIG g IS
eercecee
wie) seieiwieleievie/9isis eieje)sjewieiejsieicie-eiehoiais,ee/e/eielelsieieie, sielelslciecsleieee (yy siaeinipigivisejeeiercice.ojeisic.e ¢.s\cie9e/eievense.ecirisiieleQirOjSaullay S5i8: 2,8: 910/8 inl.e: eles ie, «, oie.ee wins elesieicie ess Sec 1OOr dvay, see e cee ereccecisecccsscccs esses cggnid Ul sodsef pot pur yng COE POOR COICO SOOO TOO OR AI TOLER} fa fale (6 jodsvp
tee e emcee eee e eee ee ere ees re sees essere rroneeeer trees tory
eeese seeees tees eeopreseees
eecee eeeoese
sevierrOpis sites JOT Fewer rere rece sere seeerereereeeereriipnh put radsefl ‘nioo01g OIG OCIS OSI OC § HV CX Bl ‘WIOA 0} }xou ‘ayvIs ap OlyD toe cec rr eccr esse ccceeereccerssorcosoessoses yoo! Opua
$e ce ee tec eccrsecescsccorscecseesssssconseseosveses errargig
‘uorjdiiosaq
OND OF CFD CTD OND OD OD OD OD SH SH i
v_ se ee ee ww ee ee ee)
09S 6S 8S¢ kgs OSP GSP ISP 6tP LYP 9bP €St ctP 8hP vrP €rP OFF GhP [tf 6EP 9EF cep ver 1&P O€P 6cF Scr CGP C&P EGP CGP Ter PoP 0Gr
-suouttoads |
*penuluoyj—ay0'T uyor °LqT hq pajaajoo ‘spssof pun ‘sa.o ‘sppsqurue ‘8390.4 Jo ansojpIv9
che bre €vS Gre Iv€ Ore 6EE 8EE LEE 9EE cee pee 6&6 GEE 1€€ O&é 6GE 86E LGE IGE CoE bE EGE GCE IGé 0GE 61€ SIE LIE 9I€ cIé bIé elé
‘ON OAISSoIS01g

<<<Page: 653>>>

aie erereieyelereleis.ox0e sie) 6010 Srvereverei(yiyurereiere ee ee ai)
SKefeleeoleiais. sre elatej(ee' ales 667 6X6\0i9!'¥/ Gy) 247s. ee) e005
teeeeeees gavo [eyog purty |* sete eeeeeeeeees gave [RWO |°
overelojensnerenskovere\.eie. (yore sisle/neie ehsile
se ereeeeeee vers WOOT [VWOg |
eoetceoeese
erence r eres
sisseisreshere senersierere@ ry sse*y es exeiere! 2) efehexe esi shecsieieze) 472 O ptarkcises es *:%s%c2}* ORR OSI BOLL} 0
Sxereerors)sisresiekes eis)?
sete eee neers stoner ene e reel: teen eect e eee rgpr estes eeeel st tee eee sees ron:
OPO E SCRUCICYOTL 0) a)
erejeingey 948i9/'e2,2)2)2)*8 1)" Saye elsieisisss; a0; 170!
wearer erro ere ee ees eee tis
toe eoreerr ee ser ee seeeerls eeceessee ree ese eeeeeeris
steeee scope bese eeergpresreee ceeds reese ee oper sees eeds
DIG UR OOO oo ed Oa ad
seeeeeee scope te eeeeee scope: Pe ereee es ron:
tee eeeeesronrsereeeee:
tte eee sope ties eee cope betes ope Fteeee stop: be teeee sop:
Heese sere scope tase ee sop: tee see eee rons
eaoee
seo ees eeeeteeeeetrersorsseeoee *ouo}spurs Opty ul snxojdnp saploon yy
sence re meee Ore eters tense tes seteersoneet estes ee csees es tor
eieieeeiereie ee CuOR et “iq Aq peux) ‘guoyspurs oT ul snxefdnp sapioon 7
eee sig persis else steieenner ow Ope eirie,itasiclssehs
see sopreeerercseseeeesopiesscsress
see copreeeececessreesopresressces
eee eeeee sor SNOAIROTLO JO a]NpON sereeeees guoysputs ARIG OULT Peco eee rere ween eee e eens aeeeersees ss SQTIOISPULS OFT AL
seer ewe eee ererreeeeeeesrese OP sii0's) ie) sisioiehsicie sige wie, Shes siens Chek O GT
grotesinins ensereiieis ciate eiminieeie Seopa Oy Ossett nes ace” ee kr
tee eeeeeeerreeees quoyspurs AVIS osIvOD UI VyAIeq JO ayVYydins Jo uid,
ereusceneegecesnesere) 2's’: MOLT ATO apixo1od Ul OUI, JO 9PVUOGAVO snoydiowopnasg
Sho) SY e;e [0 016 aoe 016 810,64) 0,00 /e,0)0:8 reeeeee Opretertrese eeeess og
sasisieielsi (Op sens TEC OUI LCY gf
CO OTCIOIES (0) oD OOO OLEH eY a
eoreeesee eeeceeeeeseeee
see cece renee eee e tren ere gnrettre esse eeeees ory
te ee eee ee eerees eoeees QUOISPUTS J}IYM UI UIE JO optxoied Jo sajnpoN
sete cence eter eer neers eeseeertopeerertseeesropisrstte reese s sory
seen ee eee renee ee en etree eerrOneeeeseenes sone sssresteeees sory
a) 6) ej ejer4s 6:4, ba\0i9\ 8/9/49, eie\ee veherereins Q peicieieseceisisieieisigny "tev eksmiekeleieseleiekch2O (iy
©j0re.0 ler e/srexevereieye.e sive (erste SOU OISPURSs OUIU Ma UL UOITATO opixored JO sapnpo
foprrtressteess sod serroprtsereees reropretetetteeees Fopretteseseese tog seesoprteseeres sssopretetteee se teeeeesope errr seers sso eee sopreterestenetsersopeeseriseeeseesesroprseteesesiee ssc
eee Lope Te yinsie ta Ke Ser copie srsise sewing rOps 99 t-2 She telstO
oss 2Oprenerererss cere rOpeseessrees crores acopres-eesceers OCT
£2 copressueueersae sp vOpyr rDe yee Essee ss evOpr sss tettes Log
“OPsse TSS Se eeeO SSO Pees sso" O mp NOpsieeeperens's's SOpritseiescisereielemeasO (al . opr Opi eed cites Ser els e292 Op sutiniaahe ehereaeeaadO Cy . ‘op: :’* CL) 0S a aaa i Cet 0) CCI LO, OOO EXEL OY (| EVO Ps Ssirels eee evo pee Psysiee PEL cee ODN eae we = LOC] CIO OE TOO | sieves sieseinieeic250 (i sgene 019).6 ie nie ese 20] ORME RaLOCHTCYESOY ¢]f
‘soprre
SvOpe se ewe reise ie LOp eye . vop:'s sop:ss ° Opricis .Opsiee *. SOps’e'2 Fopys: . slopes": -Opr® Sep arepeieisioneie/ eh O OF wOpr ss Vo) ofa shousisisielere locus iesorectecuslere'y 21°80 (hi ““sope’s's Ops se ene ehegeess: ros TO Pecehehsee wr OG sop: es “O Pris rieiepsbioueie, heer? \2'e SOD ousaies s 01% SOG. » Fopree SOP Psa eric ele sie olen pe seri os’, * SOT
wee eee eee eee eee ee we a a a ed
nn ~_ wee ee we ew wo
a i i i i i i i i a EN i i a i i Ai Ala i i Ni Nn i i in i i i in i i
8oP LSP 9GP ccP 069 ror 669 BE9 LEO €8¢ G6S 16S 06S 68¢ 88S L&S 98¢ ¢8S PRs C8¢ TRS O8S 6LS BLS LLS OLS CLS PLS ELS
GLS IL¢ OLS 69S 89S LOG 99¢ cg¢ FOS €9¢ 69S 19¢

<<<Page: 654>>>

ogres oeoorresesesercwosscrgnrsssesssecte
‘oprrtts settee eee eee ee eee eres eeeeressounT OUT
Sx0s0y'9 (804810 K0\8) 81910 \P¥\0 9h 930.910 ,0'9k0,0: 91TH .#Leheiesexeyee.°
oxenwiwieum erereies.evereiei*eusieasic 2icieieieie Qpree
seen eee ee ee ee renee etreeeee scones ‘sop
@eeerererseees eoveesee
Sieipwmeieisreision 9.0 9 9) 0.0 9K0isie.ea8ieie sie Qei° CHOXSHO0).0 | One4oue'o wisi evenczseregesejeageiosenie GQ 1)?.°.° fops-1¢ *opres
CimiariP sieiwie eo Qpsie.eneisecevy
eeececseeesoe eseecees
evree se ee eres
Shona holelakoie/PiPiPXciphelen® nie yoreue.:s.siesereie:® OTF is,eusiesekeueiese Sie se kewasievieqeswueXeke\edmrecenss*eimserereusis'sie 2 QT ssenexeusiseseieee SIP AONE(O4ONACP4O4SHeOAOAPUPLOKO AS X6/G 9) On PkEHOLEN® OTD PsPaearieasssieied/
“OLIV “IS yu Jo spider oy} Jo proy 1eaNy
SoC) Sa seeeeeeeeeeseees(K1qnqord) syoor pamnyog APACHE NO CSO RO AOE A OAS RASHES IPAS AB BUSSE EEE! OTD SAP Mee SU NE EE P
eeeseeee eee
Cee eee eee me eee oes essere eeereeeeeeseeeoee
Coe ere eer see aesesre ere oe eeseeeeesreeereos
ewer weer er tee ese ee seoeeerse nese sroeseeeees
Peer ete oo oe eee eee every
eeceeeosres eevee
eee eerr erste eee s eres es eeexraeeeeHeeseeeeee eeeeesreetreoesesree ose reese estes ee esteeeeese
sualnieialie \eue'nie kexeen ciara eraiansiese'sQ ABO nTOUIOT pur.y
*ArooryT
‘ponunuog—ayroy uyor
ee eee ese tee eee reese es
219/0)8, Ge ao) era's 0750: eresmWigisseiele:s. eee eisee es PAGO TID ul ‘soya id saddog Sgisgie gicieiese sieye:e/weieneeieceie.¢(e/e'*'* NOT}IOUL SAUOISPULs Avis pur poy coeeerer ee se ee ese eee eer eeeseeeseeseveeeerreeeeee auo0jspurs per eeee sacs 0) 0) ge eae OY (|
°* peyzyjoW ‘auoyspurs pew
Sieisitse)sieicieuwrois'es/alishsteiessesetalleuieveieistse¢, </sisine'e 18.9018 2 788 SO Gy
wooo eee ese ee reese ees
eres ee ee eeeere ee sees eases
eee ee eer ee seer er er seeeeeetsaeoasseseeseseseeeeee eues od
Bare e eee EES POI VCE eS eee, er eee ees? GUOISPUBS pew OI see" parjOUl SauoyspuRs poy soe ceee sees souojspursARiry
Steen nent eee erent tees tees ee tre eee teneaeareseeeeere cere OCF
eree eveee socoeecese
Ce ee ee eee etree eerr ee te eae eee eeestsoeesesessestsees Feee EEE od
eo ee eee etree eee eee se oetise es esse sees eeeeKeeseseeeeeseeoes OHS od
teres eee og **+ quOyspuRs Ng see eteeeecseeecoeees sraddoo Jo ayeuogive YA poureys auoyspurs ABIX) Pee eeereseeesereeseee ssarqqad zjIvnb Jo 9yeIOUIO[SU0D PUR BUOJSpULy *ee**(Suosyour sag, Aq paurejos) ‘auojspuES ojIYM UL snxefdnp soproon gy weet e tence secon ser eeeeeeeeeres soUOIspUuRs O}IILM UI snxetdnp saploon gq ++++(‘uosyovpe “iq Aq poureyar) ‘ouojspues oy Ut snxe[dnp soploony Stee eee eee e ee teow eeree esos ess QUO spURS OTIYM UL snxefdnp saploony
ese ee eee
see*+(Suosyour ‘iq, Aq paureqor) ‘ouoyspues oz Ul snxofdnp seproony
Leone teen eee nent eee eee cease sees esr nrsesret esse sees es socT
step e eens eee eeeeeeeares eres ssguoisputs ay M ut snxefdnp soproon,g
seeee(Suosyour ‘aq Aq pourryat) ‘ouoyspurs opty ul snxo[dnp saproong
seen tree eee cesses eereeseeees sQUOISpULS OY UT snxe[dnp saproon gy
sree (Srosyoer ‘iq Aq pourejor) ‘ouoyspurs oz1qM ul snxoe[dup saproon gy
So eee eer e eee tree ee teeeereesee er rceeee anrerteccesereseres sory
PAP i218) @ 1B iP Oje OVO lOWes 9's" eeise elereisejereherere: ersyersieres®: yp sie ei neier eis Saiapersenee OCT
08,9, 6/09 P\Pleisis ae S109 (04) ghelareieg/ereys'e'e © "OTOISPUUS OPIUM ul snxofdnp seploon yy
‘mordiiosaq
‘spssof pun ‘69.10
“aqZ hq paqoaqj0o
*xoq JOON
‘sypuauru ‘syoo4 fo ansopDIDD
£08 GOE 10€ 00€ 866 £66 L6G 966 C66 166 066 686 _666 T LOG F6G G66 886 L8G 9F9 CEE ILP OLY 69h 89P LOV 99F Gor POP €9F COV T9P 09F 6SP
‘suourtoods Jo “ON
61? ral LIP 91P CIP viv EV GIP Ilv OL 667 807 LOV 907 COP bor £07 GOP LOP OOF 666 866 LOE 96€ S6E b6E €6€ G6E 166 06E 686 886 LE
“ON OatsSo1501g

<<<Page: 655>>>

of sie \elahexesshete sions ciejoiersersveleisseiesie eer’) yi, 96 ‘87 oigieueieteve eevee es Srey IOAIY prog HE Mare ‘QP
9.0.0 00500 0 OC OE an 3 Ge ‘OP
elake ehelensvereneneesere Opes
Dia Pe aged otsomitetonbs coger anaes
eee eett coe eimine eters pseresesiesegsrers
cool sinya7exeleraielsievei®ieteks/’e%e’e)/sl0) sinie Te 1G [yes e/alexereseieie Seve eieiev ere se see 6 eNBISI SSOIQ—G tera ‘OF
= SUL SS OD qsnony ‘durvo II NT OE OEOOSTSOO AIO ysnony ‘dureo BN
eis Sinjtere seis ssisisioietccremOn er cori.
COOOL SONORA SLAC TNO OT oF 9152 GON IN AA Siakenelos<siereje\siesieiso/ereeie cronies sre sii prcley eke’ co
sesoprersesces sop ++ op
seropretteesces
seroprrsseesees seers eer es sone thee eeeree cope
tees eeerersoprerseesees
Solel shel -ererehoyohe serene secess 1s r°iee\es91:* On)
reese sop sees scope
Peete eee etree eee eee renee tone
D110 OCONEE BC RIE HK CECA 0) 0) Rat O TO ORE OIC OT OR OE PEORIA a BAC 6) 0
eoeesses eee tie ceeiee eis 2." "ODy
Cipro e Se Swe s °2.2.2'S ODS OOO" 007010 CA TORTS RA CE eed 0 1) hens ee ene Spenerezenes sb exeie;erkehsxeleleser’ OT)?
Wolo seleieuecis eile, elelesi cic sie eereiexerieiee Ops ON: OLX 04 032
toot ere ee eer seers eee rne
eeer ee eoee
cy 0
eee ete eee te etter eee e eee tons
tees op 2 s-op
seroprestseeses
See eae ere ee, COO I SOLLUL UvISOUSTUL JO UIOA YAIM 9} R[s uddatty
Tete eects e cee eee ese e ccc i cress Gpieceareetecees snes se rory
sieiasadeserclacloleiezsisciatel WMeveleicr-2 eleiaciccie2ielel*2 STITT *qIvo JO UIOA YAK ‘aqrYIs uae
F900 60s 4a Reieie oe sieie eset 44.8 6.9/6 feieie's:6'v0'0e-aie'ania, ee eimrelereie (ZA CND) tectreceeeeeees qyImnb puv ivdsplay useis Jo posodwos yooy seeecoroeecoeseecess zaivnb pur rudsplay Jo posoduros yooy ries oon eipeetnd or eam eons note aire ein pa ee e Ct e eleisiereleieie) soe e)e) sieurevwieinieeieie ee) tp ereheisite: exer esoiT rAd ag Suiuieyuod § ayes peyeinpuy
ceecreeocerssapls 9zILOTYO Siricie Sane ieieies * *soyopVIOS YLIp SUTAOYS OU0{SOWANT ee) Cen gt
Gis Pie rie oie viiehainiayora) ous ch cietclelerallereles) a siore) sere) severse/enel eleze) sl.oheles6, #1 () 1)it oaktalenmesssceO (ay
toe eosee eaeeete
rete eee eeeeereereccectecesecereueceseeeees iginm Aq papold AU0SIUIIT] soeeteccccrsscooeos tom nlys JUIMOYS ‘10}eM Aq popoits oUO}SOWI'T eteecereoeeereesesishipur Io} poulryor ‘youdutoos suoysouly Feet eee ete eee tee tee ee ten ee ees oniee trees es sOg
ee ‘rajyem Aq popoila ouoysouul'T sere ah eressinsaiajenejea eieleie:teceieclerte cieieo\*2000N payor ssay ‘197vAt Aq poposa ouojsouiry serv eeeeereceesoceooe pavlis SUIMOYS ‘1ayuM Aq popoid oU0}SOWIT
asi STojoie oie ove \sie:s eieie 25% ripe eee eee es Ope eee eeee sero
se eeesouoysouny yorduios AvIS YS
Cigale ein) 90 018 (019) aioe) eile 0 6-08 (0 \ese'9\e 10.416 \9/,ofe) sy clakesmacreksR (pT) cickcheat nesces () (i
eee ee ee tesco este
Come mre errr eee esse ee eees sone s SH FTOEHE HE EH EH eH Oe Oe EES 0) a) IOI Y G
Seen eee e tree eee tn ee ee er aces recesses teeeesresees Oieseress sory
reese oprererrss og setrees oprreeeess og
se ree corer ore seres #9 6)e efebssiekeyerezeseie) sical: Q1peiekey*.ce 2 OGn
sieneig wie elese 6 sie eles. sl eieie wis) ej eres ele cisse: eieceiel olekerslecarerse io eee uslece sO Direaelegcine sae O(a
eoee Oppercce sO: coved (0) ULL GY @(
FGI €6l 68T 0&6 IGG 916 GGG 98T
bEE €&& bce GCE IGE 1&& 8cE ike late €1é 666 GEE O€€ LCE 9CE CGE 0GE 61E 8Ié LI€ Glé Ig COP 666 CoE OLe 60€ 80€ LOE 906 COE vOs
6SP 8SP LSD 9SP CST vSP €SV GSP
ISsy Ost OFF 8h LvV OPP ctP vPV ehV GD Ihv Orr 6EP BEF LEV 9&0 cep vEeP eeV cEP TeV O€f 667 86P LGV 96P CoP Pov CGP GGP [ch Och

<<<Page: 656>>>

CHO ORO OI CACRORICICRYSOURPUHOAG HEL ICSU 0} 0 SELB HOT TL Dy
Sroprettisees
thee eee reese sone
Siassdsleseceiniesashernieeseiens2)e.sscie.02.*\ Op?
reese sop:
ee eer sree eseeee see eestreeeseeees
SkeimpsisIinisinn sie ileis-e ©6.e:2 $410.0. 0:¢ 2% 88.2.2. 8 8 QD N ee sileie.e.s
Salshesissehaainisisieieice.e.c0-9.0.0)¢ 09 2: 4:9:8:08.2 SOD ee Sle ereie
eeeeeccee
sigkehotsichereesheisueieisi® "TT Ken Kop eocee
eeereeere
settee eee reese sees soneessleees
OBIE CIO DIE OO OLIN OT) aOR OCICS
HRCI MORETTI ae oh seee *yulog ayUBIxy “PE “Cs ‘GP |****
Meee ects ewes ton estore eeslieeee renner eee eestor ee teeeeeriees
BC O'COOD ODIO 1 aOR EOIN ORCI
EOS BOO HOCIOR IE 0) oJ RC aCe CC
tite ete eee erp teers eesnees SS ROE SACRE ey | terereseees DUIS Jo pUd “g ‘PULLS! eT |**°
Glagearlede ries eisicne: $< 210 4.2:0)6:e:9, 018s ee OD yess 2 t|aie\¢.0
bene tee eee sree ee reeee sees + nuDIst a[ppIAL eee weet eeeeeeetreeee ses tgQAlt puog Jo yop jee
OTOH HEISIO EI CIOOIILD) gO OAC
owe eee tree cee seeeeseseere
sores sTRg Jaary prod ‘11 ‘SG ‘ap irs
per tas) ed gd LAE SM POA ECVP ACHILLE FA 0) 97219
CF SCICROM OHO TOS BU ALB Eas 11S ERIE) 0 eae eee sees sees eeses esos eeeoeese eee esses gosese Oper sierene.sisorce's eee OU,
ees ee eee eeser esses eeeeeeessoses peoveee C9} OOS ACEO OA ARTE MOSEL OY (i
acne ice Seleciariaieletae rca thon ins singin Bate oon es ee
soe enceescceeerecccens teeeeeees Japmog vB ‘yoor opuaqui0y rpourwy
errs eeeressoeeoee *
sees sJaplnog v SYyoos apus[quoy uddIG JYSVT
Se 8 Seu sPsRIRS IO) 20% Sus Sue S SENSIS Si 6 creie cicielecsiguensseie.'?*OTLOISDUES por ul ivds ‘a[eg, Ei Sie eee, eee eee eee oes opener sel aecOUOISDULS peyeim put ul ieds i) 79)
** OPUSIS JO UIDA SIOI BpUdTqUIOFT teeeeereeeeesdery youlq yovdutoy ‘avdsplaj par o[}}I[ B pur epusiqu.ay jo Aypediountd posodutos ‘ayua1g tteeversrecceececoeeeccindsplay pal ‘ayiuals out Suissed yoor apualquioyy Steen ener seer essen ete ence e eres tee eteerteneeeeeee soIDIS apUa[quIof{
tte tees eeeeeeeees soaps UaadZ
ee i
eee sew eeee oestrone eces
EIR IN AIOE SOLAS SO MA MBN OND ESOS TO OC CHOOT OT (5) WUNNON CG f
ziejrsie)iejeieiel sigue sisir.3. 6 sigjeit else e sieie! see scseseielee au TAd SUIUILIUOD 69}t]s youd woy
eeereeer eens
Sete e tees eee ener eeseeeee ints snosoRypIaIy
scee soteeoecssoreseszi tend pur redsplay jo pasoduros yooy sreececereceoees KiAydiod poureis auy ‘zy1vnb pur sedspray patoloo ysopy CIO OSCE IO OCECICHUIEN Foyer ooh fa ONG redsp[ay pesodurovep ‘vioaaiq Jo arqqeg
seereeeeceeeseseeees (2) K14ydaod ‘yoor zy1enb pure uudapye} paiojoo Ysa
suet vers sees te ete eee ete ee eens TOA ‘ouoysoutt| uDisoUaUy sceisie seres(se siggy Aq paurnyed) ‘ulaA ‘auOJSaUUI] URISSUSL A
Dee ee ee erteecerseeeeereseeecsseress Ngzoloo YUId ‘oUOJSoUMT] ULIsOUseY
sscjeeesicrtecrievceeecocsse +s. Qanig Ul Spalo UVISOUDLIA Pee teen ee open treet sete es scene sO
SSeieinsie.e.2 Sees ee cee seer ls 2 Se OU, *qivo jo UldA YyIAt ‘aqRIs udalr)
‘uorpd1os0q
*xoq JOSION
‘ponunuog—ayo0T uyor *iq7 fig pajsa7j09 ‘spissof pun ‘sa.to ‘sjVAaUIUL ‘8YIOL fo anso]DID)
*suowloads
‘ON OAISSa1s01g

<<<Page: 657>>>

ofersissisieisieke ean Gy: qunory ivou 66 "Ge ‘6P [sselekalereheieserenertere 9 ieysioneltse:e: seers weieteteesiaie) els euersy ote tetegenre ene 2 eie kere eiescae Jap]noq auny |
*qavo YY §zz1enb sureas aHivy pure ‘aedspjej par ‘speysAso asury ‘AaAydatod poy
Sisjeeiersate jexe sje) se/e.ere,e/98.'6. 201/28 I)SiSiminie s sispelenedeee, Syeinss ee Si eeneiee: Ss Bie a eesis esis ci ON afppiut ‘ey Ap yaaz ‘yoor dvay,
sterecrenerenereersletevekesiere.:e:9\ ea Tey pUNOAT sfeveieleveieleiese\cye'siake ere, s:6ie seis sje iaieelaieicleiexe/oiriy "ON sopis ‘ay dp yaoj 06 ‘301 devazy, OA Oa al 0) 0 aaa aia ae pb etonee tone rvdsplay pur spus/quioy jo s jo posodmoa *asivoo ‘aqueig
sete teats eee e ewes ee roness
eecerrs ee sreeesee
Bessie wieieie) cone) es sievere) exe) 2050.) +e ekeverefeievere erste tele GT
sie (sree. Se eve. sle.eie ee Sieisieeees.* <)5°" HQT IG auy fayusIg sielsisisieseleioresesieielsiere oieieisls: eexe\s/susie/e\<.2i<) 20:88 HOUR, GSLLOD ayuaig
opts opts:
Sie rsvohsexe\ sol ies: 6660's) 002 0 iy aceiehclorsmenouags | seieie ejebieets/eve,eeisien sXe! sieeieleieieisnient siexeiexeie icieitieie:sieie tien tivievevee eceleis) 2 tooR[d ul ‘ayU9Ig
SCICOIIE 1 Oc OOD OO Tn O00 0:0 OCCT IE ODE IR SINAC WES RAIA OU eR) CRUD Osa(0) SDD ES LOD og
CIDE 20 0720.60) 972017001000 OD OO ROR ee MO AA A BOI
oS SoG: yUNnOTAT Ivou ‘66 "CG ‘67 eeeeee
sj9i@ slejejseleioieeis) Cries epee OD see e
** spidey ysiqnyy teddy jo prof
DO DROTE DOOD eh MO OOOO UY Gy a ayopida YM payvoo ‘aug Coe eee eeseoees er esteesesteeeneseessaenese youdmoo ‘ouoyspurs persipV Pidis is eyeiele¥airexekexsraie@pys eisiei2|ie eisai eieie.cc 0:29 8 'eiecieeieiclsinec eccisie sisinielesie Mm aAOOTa Syorduroa ‘quoyspues pala}, V Sewwiweraieioweiy esis Opsicieis 2:2 ‘yonduloo ‘poulvis auy ‘guoysputs polei, Vv
‘op Sete e eee eee eee eee eer eres sees eer On eeceeteereress OT
op" erose eo ser Sfp SS GUOISPILES poreiie ‘z41enb ATLvpNURI)
sree ee ee ee ropr ete t tre eeee ete eaeeereteeerseeeerecseeeees iy rerierstesteciscessseeeees OF
sseeespidey ysiquy [seesser ee reeoesereeeeees (guoyspurs pasoye ATqeqord) ‘zzrunb oy repnueIy
reece rope rt sn etc es essere sees cesses ersreceeseeeceeees OD seerereseesseesseeseseee es OT
teereesees(guojsputs poso}e ATqeqoid) ‘zyrenb yurd ryynuey te rereees (Quoysputs pastoye ATqeqoid) ‘zyrenb oz1yM AepnURLD
sees" olOYS Oe] *IOA dir FOF N29 an{q youdui0g
shevelsieie'e'e,a)iaiajejéese) s\e\8i se siaieie.*(*Qpeure
sete eset ee ree eee sgnrersee ees
*sapitAd UOI GUIUIR{NOD SazyLIS SNOJasIOTVO youduI0D OC teeeees iedsfaj pur oj1o;yo Jo pasoduiood ‘yoo1 ul yoy tee eeeeerceses (QQC ‘ON 90S) ‘pad YA pofyjou ‘yoor zyrenb repnursy
Sieieueesieie ses) sree ies/s\y ei shove eis) shelsie 0] a ie (9/080 eke 2) wie! Se Si BLS ie eke she) cdarshe ones “Ea POusU TAN pep}jout ‘yoo zyrenb repnurssy
ati da,0'4 agi «ave cine.e't OVE © HHNAs |S 8/s010,0 6 ¥ei019 #009 910 8.0:98,6.0 0 Siena tininigieisia 40)0)2.08)8.0'00 0.0.5 4.8,010,e580/0 oCein ea OOUNZAIUMG)
*sees* gouyzo ysod raary dieg
tees eres ropresteser scopes
GT OTOIS EO OCSEOSOD OSOUCRON (a) g NCES
theta tee ee eronrerseeees
ee og tee oq eeeee ggg ‘Avis ‘oods ‘sodid Suryvur 10f ooy poy
areresie olsselceie)eisieic? ois: S01) ooo ereere
Petree ee erersoprerteseee sees ee eee e tee eeerrereeees ON ceeeerens
fee ese sere ese eoeeseeoere
** puyst ourarg ‘% ‘ce ‘gh
soe e eee eeeerececeeeecanresslsceerececeseowcccrvesscosccsecsssoscoosscinds J80 JO UGA puv ivdsplay poy
€\¢ 01g siehore (elle inrheselloinkexs: Qiye eFeke|\0,0 010 6 eisleleieieiele 0) s\ejeiaieiajp)eteieejeielc *.o\cee.ejcieisiewiassicciteie.*\* QUOIEDUES PodysimuMolg,
RIO OOOO 0:7} 1 BO. as eecees tere rooeeeroeeedniy ay} vou euojspurs wody ‘anpou pot pur ys}uselyy)
CEG G8G I8G 086 8hG L¥G 9FG PEG GPG 8EG 816 6LG 8LG LLG 9LG GL PLG 986 P86 666 866 LG TPS 819 809 €g¢ O19 609 PGS 91g 696 £66 £86 6G IGG LIG LGG 6hG ChG 0Gé
O€s 66S 86S LOS 96S CEG eG €6S GGS 16S 06S 61S 8Is LIS 9TS STs PIS €1¢ GIs IIs Org 60S 80¢ LOS 90S cos FOS €0¢ GOS 10S 00S 66F 86F L6P 967 CoP b6P €6P CoP T6p

<<<Page: 658>>>

skalejeieiaseraajasiaiqia)e'eoie/e; sieje's *'¢'¢52e)si Qe; °0% ‘OF
Maisiejsiesieisicicieicisivie:e ele Ow ey i748." eeeeereresreeeeee seve areteiehe.° Operiss®s® OOD OOOO OU OUICOCIRUCIIOICIOLs figs SOL) S ipisiemeieieressieiPishe, wees see eQpee see e2 2 * Shs iekorebswokele ie ieie/aie/ ei0e.9/9. 9'84@ pieteieteieseraiers eee eeee acne Piusieieie® seq ea rgprieucssie e's eeeee apeig\eeie eva eer eiseyejeje'* spe se sine'a.e'e Sy Sie TON ONe! CNSIETo Le SNCNST SYS 0 TeX eres Sop) se) eales eke’ S.*
eoeeeee eeoe sh «(Sieh aseererexetaing pe a\s'sieierends
seers auiod ulviy, Jo jsom yurod eB woly
*-Aqmvurysy jo SIRT Fe01E) ‘TE “9G “OF
er spider Aqmeurysy ‘ag 69% ‘oP soceeeees snider Aqmvuvysy ‘CZ ‘LG ‘OF
weer er er ee ereeseeeerese sees 9 ‘9G ‘OF
tenet tee eerie eee eeeergnrerteeees
Sipisejersinesterne ae 80.84 * TOATT SIGUA, VON
Signersieiscg'gisiers 2 si¢:0) eee gee e029 sQpsesskes.¢'¢ 9's
se eeereceewessessIQATI ODILGOT, ILON
Plas siesteisie/e ei9/eleu's) 8.9\9. 82's! 8's QDs sheie/e'c.e e's
HAVOC gee selsteiee oe MMT TROT, ‘og “9% ‘QP Ti meal Dec ae ake si1oys uo ‘ying JVUNOTJAT TBS AT seeeeeeeerraing qunoy Ivou 66z Ferd “GF
DOOODODOUOODUCOOOO DECC DOL IOOHOC iu ra zoddoo jo syoods Surureyuoo ZyIUNY "e+" (PEG MOT[OF pfnoys) AzITenb poos ‘ajruy 07 spyarf ‘posopoo-qeap ‘az1[NOvAo Ny reece eeecescereecesesseerseese (FOC MOT[OJ P[NOYS) 9}2ey pexo[oo-yuig sleie:' sie eieaesieusies ee )t0 tie 608s 901689 Seeleicieseeie*.5* 9.2.9 5 se.e/eeelece cle. npOUZerOPIGhL COOP O oD ew HEHO SH SHEP SHES EDS SH HID HSH SED HEH HERH HHO THO EE EOE EES EES ayopidy toeccmccvcscecceccessess tadd0d JO qivd JO GUIZLOD YYSIS V YIM OUI] “qIVD OOO OUD UOC AIO ICRC ICH OOOO ODOT OCC COCO OCI i SOI Ion AO OUD AN Ea jo uloA ret eeeeeeceeeeeeeceseers cee eziimnb pur ‘oyopyo Svdsppoy Jo pasoduros yooy **(sisAyeue Joy poulejer) SuTUTeyUOD yoo dei, seen cence ence en ceesarerseerseeeressereesesceeserenes eit [eplopepsdury teeererececercecoseeees soqiuopida put opO[Yo JO so_npou Huiutreyuos yoor dvary, teeeereeesrees qropida JO s[eyshio OU YIM paleaoo rvpnoisiaa yoo devi} usar
Peewee sr ee eee eee ee ss ee eeeeseeeseees Sees eeee Opsictsio~sisie.s) siceisie.e**2i2 OG
eee reer eae eeeseesesreeeesteeseeeeeee Feeo ees Op Sis seieisisiesiejeisieseie}*:2)° OG
Coc erence renee seer eee e teases ee corte ee auojspuLs UL vyAirq Jo o}vyd[ns Jo uta A Fee eee eee eee eee ee rie SSG wees Puck Soh, eeigeaieieas OCLOT STOLEN Oy AA sieisiemisvsisieleseieee/aje'e'ce ee) sie/e/s sin se) ¢\0 coer :ceseseteisic © eleie-e.* OU ORS DUBBEO]LU np LeRpOnT eee eee eee eee ee eee eee eee ee ka in” pa tee eae ee ge tee wirersO Dares eae OUT|
Cero eedeecocreresceeseccccssesesccsevesvcrscesecoece s onOIsnuEspal-jyoly teveeeeseeees sivdspfay por pue zy1vub ontq Jo speysh10 as1v] Jo pasodwuos yooyy SIO DIDCOT OORT ISOLA: G76 (540) (2 ayy M pur zjrenb eny[q jo pasoduroo yoo" a) G/e/o-siceje'e\0e eeleig wc se.c'eceieasee sees os.0e sisiteie*ie TBdSpTOT poelo[oo-Yysey pur zywny CORIO ORCI ACE BON SOLS EEA AE Y ‘ON prepuryg *redsp[ay per pur ZYLENY
Sie'eie ie) ¢ 5 aieie ©)seisis sit| 50.0.0, 0c) see, s)s/einssreisiere a(slse, einisicieje.e sieeye che! sisie) ysis. siete elo 2 OC]
Sento ee ee ee en ence ee see eee erecereereeeseeseeeeseseess suoispuRs AVIS asIvOD Fee ee eee ete e ete c ee ean ee ce eee ereee On terres eeieeseresesesess OF
oie) ge asiisye) ele aielisiens.¢ wiles e &: e:e erie OUT. BORO TAT 2 Sururezuos ‘guojspurs Oy AA seeeee(Tge vas) ‘Aypenb roisadns ‘youduroo pur pavy ‘appNoVAOU pa1opoo yale (‘¢ aq 4q pourryor) ‘Aj1Tenb Jotzedns ‘youdmoo pur pavy foy[NovAou petofoo asd beeen eee cere teen tee eset tteseectseeeeesarteetsrecseeeserreresens O1ODIdK
Fae ee ee reeeseccecssocacercesevesess se 7qipnl pue redsp[oy jo pesoduroo yooy
*AyipvoorT
‘uorydiiosaq
‘ponunu0g—ayo0T uyor ‘aq fig pajaaqj09 ‘sprssof pun ‘sa..0 ‘sppdqurus *syIOL fo ansopnny
~~ wu_ewe ewe eee ew wee ewe vee ere ew we
OI i i a i i i A a. i i i i i i i i i i i ol
0S L6G 909 St9 6&9 8&9 beg PFO Gr9 19 OF9 cE9 119 TS¢ OSS 6hS GS¢ 8hS L¥G 9S StS PPS GbS €7S 969 G69 Té¢ 0€¢ GLG OLG ¥9G 9€G
CIS T9¢ 09S 6S¢ 89S LG&G 9SS ggG ¥g¢ €S¢ GGG TSS oss 6FS 8tS LYS 9FS GPS PPS €hS GES TPS OFS 6S BES LEG 9€¢ ces VES GES GES Tes
*suoutoods| ‘oxy OAIssoId01g

<<<Page: 659>>>

OER ORO gs SOO EOE CST SE a BIO OOS CH | |
Fee :2 Si e59e ee: hie sae Cl eis 960.6 Rimise ees 6 sees (e)
seeeceees coos pT ‘Pp ‘aH | eonweetne . . Od AL
ee er eevee ens
oe eee ero erens.
oprrttseeses
eo teececcces -s,ydesor 1g |
ee eo oe ece eee eo seees! oe ee teeereoserses
ee tee sor eessrereeeeereeseeeseeeseses
ecevee
teen eee er eter e sere eee ropr er eseress
Tugs sne ess 207 o90s8 JO N ayia 4 9% ‘RP eevee ee reen eee sere se eee eeeeeee 9G ‘QP ** 96 ‘8P roprtttesets
sect eter ere eens co eees Onreerescees
eeoceree e010 9 8 O08 fF “OT ‘a 83 ‘9G ‘Br
soccer ence ere eeeeeeercesesesosees souosaull| JO sIsk[Rur pur UOTyeU
-JUILXO JOJ poUurLjer JGB pur “CTS ‘BG6L ‘ROL ‘SEL ‘PEL “TTL ‘OTL “089 ‘099 “SON teres +s SUISSIUL O1e GQ PUL “EBL ‘LBL “GBL ‘PBL “EBL “BBL “TRL ‘OBL “OSL “SON eee tee orerr essere seneerrsecees snsuojqo snioureyuag ‘TIssoj eulvs ot} [TV
[ve eee eres sees eeeeeereee® TLOTRUIMIa} OY} JO sayout g Jo Z urgym ATydns
-qv sjovrju0 pue Joeysog (“suiMeIp 90s) ‘s[eysdTo YA paT[y pur
‘payrvur [JOM fadAvp opouNYydig ‘staquIvYo ORT Moqe [je Ul SuryeuL ‘your
ay} 0} 9014} Jnoqe sjulol ‘xayoUILIP UT saYoUT g ‘ouUOT yoo} G “eLBD0Y}IO yROIE) seees+ 0 pants oq 0} g jUlod oY} 4e ‘eIaD0YAG ywaIs oY} 0} Sursuojeq yred “gq +ee*s-u0 pan[s oq 0} VY yulod oy} ye ‘eIID04WO Ja oy} 07 Hursuojaq yaed ‘y
CC asierere (ip Id Aq poureja.l) (queulsedz) RIIVOYWO
0) 6'S:-¢ wes (eer sieieieel ser OD! oie icine ti Shae wa = ay CO
se eeseceoereees soul Jo ayeydius Jo seysAio IepNooy been eee cece eter ec rececetececerreresesreesconsessoserseoinis snolapiyIs setae ee eeeereeeeeereoserres soul ‘qiva Sururezuos ayvjs snosayiyuAd youduroy cece crete vee eecseoecevesresecotithd pure OUI] “qIvd HSULUILJUOD Yoor oz10[YyO peer erreeceerecrosceereeeeT “On Uatoads pirpurys *YIoI apus[quioy Uwaely) *(sisAyeur 10j poureyar) Apraepod yA uot o1jouseUl ‘Ayx]s ‘pouresrs-ouy orduiog
seveeecocsrecescereeeeess Opi eseerccerscscsecrgnrssressececeressesO(y
bocce cece eceececesecenss Operecsscscerereressoprserercsessesesss sO(T te eteeeeeceeeseor eee Kqrippod YIM WOM oNeuseuT ‘ApLTS ‘pourrss-ouy ‘yorduioy ere eee rerececroeeecvooees OUll] JO “quero yy ayes ec ce ww cere cere e ere c ese reseeeerecconceserececeres s71IPN Uy arg cece reece ccc cece cee e eres eyecccrsecccssoccosssoosross soins ul soptkd Uol] sa 810.6 800.00 os 0 cele deere cieneseeio ces vx esos seie teue rice 290s. 69.8. O1RTS OUIOTOS sec eeeccee ese rrecceeccencccsseeseresssers ccoqiisd saddoo SUIUIeYUOS ZILLN®Y te eeeeeeceeeeeoseeerorroryo yy sayatd saddoo jo syoods SujulyzUOS ZyIUNyY
*xoq Suo'yT G ” Pi» Po» Po» Pos Px» Poss YT ” Px Foss i 99 any) TV» Fo» Vo ae Po» Pou» Po»
69 1¢9 0s9 Gh8 vG9 €69 G09 SoS 81g OFS 6ES LES 9€S GES PGS €6S 66S 96S GES 16g
G8¢ 18S 08¢ 6LS 8LS LLS 9LS CLS PLS ELS GLS ILS OLS 69S 89S LOG 99S: c9S vos £9¢

<<<Page: 660>>>

Sis iPsie Se eieiviee e.eusieie,eis sisi! rie eishe Orysleeiee ese othe *\SAOUPEURIO Lo se\enesie1s..$'%u2)'*/9)9)0 9 28 2S TOPS CCAS 2 .2ie Se
tee ee ee eerste reece eter es sane teeeees
terereres + vaquomoUa ‘s[[Vy uM, 1addyq eeeeerseros see ee es MOQUOWMOUDTT ‘s[[ey UIM [,
oleipieioleieisisioiegele aie cieiayp isieisieisis o's ieigtyeiasete aneke oreh:
sroprrttseeess ‘opr ‘opr:
PReaticsnieeis plearsisieieisieisias ies ales ‘errr eleie
terceeeeeeees sygquomoua ‘spider puri
SiPMisicic ci eipie.o\eisis-siisiepleseleie eheinie f.2 Ose. e's 210i
to sseeeeceres sy gquoMlOUay ‘spider 971 AA
sacislelieienmiegiesicg-* e.sicie 2.9.° Optics 24 4's ir\e.s
yoouowouayyy “[[LUI Mes Ss, UTY[NVD *Qq SEE
fete eee ete e eee eee re eee eee sonrreseeeees
teeter ee ee ener tence ere e ee tgneetseeeees ‘opr: opts
ole lelejsiciensisieleneie.iseje< sexes iahsic/eleret eg iysye: 2:
teeeeeree ss voaqtomouary Spurs! vmoddiyg beeen ee ee eter eee tre eee tgpe rere tees *yoouowouayy ‘p,jst eaoddiqg morpeq aptut 4 *yoouououaA ‘p, [st eaoddiyg Moleq aftr T Peete ence eee beeen sage eee ton seteeeees
*yoououtouayy ‘p,[st vmoddiyg mojaq oprut #
opebekenruariesinisiouisicis.cieteie suede © 15.2 "OD 2108 8 e.cic.2
ee eeeere
Crokepeltens sielerenejersels)e) sie) 69.06: * 68's (tyes *eie/ele/eiaie
a eofetwje).elale ese) eenenejeinicleiesciee/e)0i8/2°* ()T)*'* wie/e;atsiere<
sjejehe:nias\(e.ie/isrefe\alabeiagreleyereseai'e eiele7* QT) ¥\e: # $9.96 sieKc
*++++yaou0moUDT’ ‘purist earoddiyg Moog
*AjTRIO'T
MSPLLSS Se Se Ses sy py cio Sisistesisiopesres.2.0.001,e/PieleeO pp 'siesriwic ese $e) e:ece ce sec OMT
Fonte ee eee ere ee ee sree esis eens ee sees eeee a eerOnreeeesieeesereesee es sot
Ce (2) O}ISIOZ Suureyuo0d ‘Quoysounly Injnurisy
iia ole oipiis’ ecelsiels NUBIL)
Teen eee e ent este ee tee eee e tee e test cerns 18 OCF
*** URLINIIS JOMOT SOUOSOUTT UTISEUSLUT pasofoo quid ce Eee eee eee eee ee ee pie ke ODEs ae arte prt eee eeemO pom nen” ene Sey *"ecrsic: 8/8). Sie: OG
sees eceeeseereeceeessupLInfpis JaMol ‘oeduiod put poulvis ouy ‘ouo}spurs poy Pe! eee ieee Son SOOO eS 20 2 Og Sere oie saedie ie eie oie) ceteaesessenUGTUN  Nee ee ee ee ee oe eee ss be sy PUL T ISTO) ‘guoyspurs SNOTaFIO, rigiesigeie sieieieieg 4 eee geet ow ecleneecirodan lero purqg Molieu YIM ‘ayrys poyeimpuy *s++++sarqqod Asadsevl yy1M e72Is poyeanpuy Stee eee ee eee eee e ener eee eee es ONMIIG
seen tee eee e ener eee tre nese eee tee trees eerrersoperssteeee sees SOT
beet erence ee te ence tne eecseeeeeeeeeer(o ir qrusng,, payivur) dexy youduog Peete sees ONE tt tee ete eee e tees eee eeee rope ene tneeeser tessa tess es OCT ‘(oryeasa ATquqoad) ‘avdspyay por Jo s[eysA10 asavy ‘ArAydiod snosazizqrenb poy
wilale, ele) ovelsiete'evieie 0X8 a\oke\'ei eel} oXolel'vxe Te/e) oteteie) evel siereevets) che () Tp sie'jeie) ee) echo)! sieveheeishele srg Ody
oe ey
ee ee eo oeerweecee se
Ce ee ee ee
Soc onT Gg
allele leieieilei i sileieiene, eieieenete:e/seie-eeis sere) ee/9 89) €4i-elle/s\e)s\e cy psicie.s)e steve CarekelezexceselensiensOG
slectssieiie) a]ia}=) # sie) 6 clei: eee) eie/e:0/6eiaiecoieheaseie Sie T BIT Sek O oseq ‘guojspues snoulsnid J
‘wor di1osoq
v_ we ew we ve ewe
vw wv we v~ Enos
eB a en Oe ce eB ce Oe ee ee ee ee ee be Bee Be Bo | ~ .
*xoq JO “ON
|‘suouttoads
MNO HIG Ore On
‘ON OAISSoIso01g
“L9Is0T “44 “Ag pajrajjos “AQ ‘spnsourue ‘syso4 Jo ansojnIng

<<<Page: 661>>>

385,
°° TOATI SIUIBSTYD eA oe ‘Te ‘pp
Meee e ee eee ce Pe
OO VME Stared yory ‘ RG pur 61e . ‘op'*
* + *yoouOMOUayAy JO YNOW OY} IW op"? *ssopr:
eee eee eres
ni OROUIOUOTY JO YNOUL yy 1vd NT ‘opts:
‘opt
yoououlousA, *SRj UOISANYG MOTAq sojlUt 2%
reessopes
ee eee wore eee ee eee
op: ‘op
+ sop
ehehehyneaskersieselensieze, @ie/6ve1(0/sii¢0fs1.019i() Ts, s¥e:8) 6) ¢8/ 06
eee eer ee seer eee eseeene
tee eeeeee see TQRTOWMIOUDIA ‘ST[RJ WOI0INYG
91010. 0:00.0,0, 01D CO C000 DOCS COOK OMe ee
el ezeteqcen er one’e CerevesellsNevahey seceamesorene(ipssnrersierensre ere
sereeevQQUOOUDT ‘S[[vy 9oSouINbog sig
Peer tee eee ee en ee eres aren sop eteseece Tete eter eer e etree ences ee sane ses enres
*** yoouoMoUoA, ‘sT[R} OosouUINbog op}\VT
BO:909000-0 000 0.9 COCR IIT OCOD) | IEC OU Oe
seeeerees YQQUOUIOUOTA ‘SIT ULM, MOTOG
Stetey ered srelsiensjoke}ep serene sieiekelelase eve iyers aise tere. e skohesefetessiotatere cee oicisie-eguiersiotecreters Oye. weeteie. se Sirbsre clone heige cre one #1 8/Se re eh epmensceusl a Ty arcuers efelere:(e cree Toner rerene ona.e he) eu0'® o's fs eezecereret One tied sisce'<
SPS Serer DnOASSOLS.AbO@y Si¢n8:,p: 9) ere siiensieieve iy uiereiseleeve re
ter eesopr eee eerees
<;9[qrvul,,) ,pasojoo yuid pur qeap fouoqsotmi{ UeTsous Ut 40" vdwtoy) soc teeeeereeeeeeess SOISIUL] URISOUSLUL PolO[OD quip JYSIT stake ce ekere sels (ny ¢ 21 4AvUt, ) ‘QUO}SOUI] URISOUSeUL yorduioo . Avis AyeTg SUIVIMOL DIUVOLO,, OW SULLINT ULISOUSLUL UMOIG eee ON ete ete eet eters eee tree sO *URLIN[IS IOMOT SOUOJSOUNT SHOULSNALey posodurosag Pie oprt tte teeetoprete terete ees og © (od. ArAgdiod 59) ‘U90IS Layo, ‘dvty ouoysuso14y sleieoasere is i( a dey alypeseq ,,) dvi, au0ysuoor4y : oH gg 2NUCIS5») YOOL O.GLTTRVIC] OH (| said nany ‘dex ortdydiog Peer eee eee esQne eee teen sO seeees redsppay pot yim Arkydi0g ‘soytthd roddoo jo syoods yyLM a4rITG weet eee ne te ete ee eee eres FOCT seeeesrndspyoy por Jo speyshiy ‘apusyquioy yortq ATpediourd ‘aziua1g Peete e ree Oree ee etee ees tog Cul ,,OHUOIS,,) ‘yoor osey]Viq  OUOISUIBA SOUIJUOdIas UL DUOYSOLUIT WeIsoUse pA * QUOJSOULI
sTarerelexer rere ieleceleiee 6 ejsieis eels levalses clare exsvereis evere/sshensle_shemslo= se ie tleucus eels) oleic! esc O(n
ctee
pas ere’: £eeheleieeres 7 peie ieee tes) the iene Scewreheuseice see esules ese. © © 68:0 obese 90 So OnE SeOsOs lens TEP teen ee erence tee nee teat enna teeta eee rOpre estes eters cess ete ees tOCT
OES SUYOOI,,) ‘ayes snosor]]PI84e ONT teers sere eseTOlt OOUSRU JO s[rysdio [LIpPOyLyooO YAM ‘ayrys ut z}renb Jo ula, sleleeiecie eee e saeco csaee siecsee eS GonttAd Ioddod SUIULBIUOD “oTIO[YOrPUB ZALES sjetelasereshelelsierele ele! e:(0//slehere!clerajeieersisisie aimee sie sic)s)e ee! ase TTT AGL ONO] Opp Ue Zt Uae) SSN ANENOES SOS SUSIR NO 0) 9. 6 O 8 ONOVe 78 9010) OTS) 8 182 OLeNP ES Ie. 0.18 5008 0280) See ae Nene eea nT LLO Co) pur zyenty
State) eNeiv'e:ze 19\/s\0)\0) 010° 0) e'6: 0Xe\eivreie (0 en0is'e.(0) 0)(a:0) erej.e ee eneierpieies.ole sielelelate cielisie.e sjeleie « e.ei<() (ip
See ee eres cree ccscrcrsencectscccstoocccuscecrssoss ss guoisamiy APIO YSIN[Y
Ce ech Gn ah teu Maitvade Glove Sieh cue ek (Seg Mc i oe
ee s(@ A << PVPS suyoor,,) ‘ oyvys snosory]lo1e ani,
Tete ee eee nese e etree eee ee ents er eeereseweesrOpierssesesreeseeees Ory
shenelebeissie/shenerechchenelonasiensneevaLevesene snenonel (rT
Porte eee eeee cerca ree eeeesececureseee(;) gusioz Jo speshio Sururezues ‘7310ny tee ceocecrsovccesevesore (7) a1IS10Z GUIUIVIUOD ‘231UNb pus OUOSOUI] IB[NUBIL)
SI ee Ie OB Oe ee ee eB ce ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eel 4 ‘ ) > uD ¢ io Ne

<<<Page: 662>>>

Sioio:0'6-0/'9)88)8,6 ei clescsieles sine o\e-sici(\i)s16'* Si0.8-4.5 18:
oulserseg uorjoes %% “AVN ‘LI ‘18 ‘8p T1910. OFO I OA te i) all al ee *soutseisng uorjoos Vy *AAN ‘0G ‘TE ‘8F “sourseistg uoloos Vy ~ AN ‘0G ‘OE ‘SP seeee* JALIL [TRY JO OUlT “g Ivou ‘cg ‘Eg ‘OG eoeeve ee ew eeeves *IOALL Hea ‘ce ‘ee ‘og’
ste ee ee eee verte cess tree tere sgneeeetorcee
"soe si[Uy Sruesiypoupy “TE “pp
OG ROO 00.0.0,00 010 Oy OA nO OOid
seroprtresseees
OCG EG QC OP At
09 0.0200 0 DOOR DRO Yo a Os Og
B.0)9:00. 00.0 010 C:000-D OF OIG SEO (0) ee OCE NACHE FOS ESO OO POO OOOO TOSI SC0900:0,0.90'0.0:0(0} 2G OO OCF
oheleieterete)©).0) dr e\erele) et sWete\se\e's)eieisieichess S's e(\ sGr, .
EOE SOTO OE i
smepehnngucreiaws eve) s)2 senshe er srs) Oc*xe1@p ) ‘IAL GIOIVSIYORTA plohcnezereseeneri®) suereve:9'* (tC), NT ‘o0R,10g taddy seeree ees IQALL GIULSIOVIA “LG ‘OF ‘PP
sajeheielercGpe = eer ai
stolen ee Shesezere TiC (yee OO I Saket a3
oben A ichwrel are Once eyesore! ¢ ee erecels ee. e eee o((\ es “66
eoeerees
soso eer IQATL SIUIVOLYILJT “2G ‘TE “PP
staelriemo near om ceusisse
cere
eves
Niels werecehe 9: 470) e*.88 ei gypsrs a) me oe eee! #007 Seceie 2 te: 8 © GIDE oe Sa eiereselee sete eee OT
a. 2lydaomejaut ,,) Soon z7avnb avjpouray "Cop .,efeqrydure ,,) yoor zyrunb youduoy Soc te cece eect ee eree sec eseee cecesrecceeenemesertsee SOF tee eeee sod 01006 Cle ge oe 40)e/ Ue Stel e)'e''s)8) 6 4) ee cece 24s) 6/08 0/056 8 06 Se wore! sia TG) uoll d1oUSL] Sete ee eetet seer sete ec eees ese ree ees copierseeere sees ieee se Q(T ee ey Cr <¢Yo0d ayo[yo 35) ‘oyrIs snooary] [oly ee egeueknseeremsie ie steeseiei( (ey < Ooqry due a) ‘dey gorduog
te alia eee ee ot wk ACER CAL OCR RI LAE BOR OCECIO OOOO GY G
Ce ee er ee 2 a ed
Peete eee neces sence see eteceeceresseeeees QaMS OpUa reeeees yout AOA S910 WOM! v[NOOdS pur oIJoUHLU Jo aMIXIPAL
se pratense s.niss nergy sipceieislsiptuaiain giase eceieeoseee etn os SOT
Cec cere cece cove erewese’s (HIN pur yout 6910 uddT avpnoeds SUODIVOTTAT
tenement etree ee tet e eee tee eee tee eres ees eee ecgig SII
LOF SNOLII[IS 00} SXAIS JO saynpou YM AAVM ‘9.10 UAT Te[MIeds snoOddvOI TA,
see e eee e eee eeeesroprsssserescreceseesessgneeeecisecee ieee ieee sor Peete eee enc ec ee eropresecsiereeterereeeesopresetteecetscesscees Qc
Fete ee ee me eaten ere meee see ese es sar eestnesertsaseersesess sess GOI
SULYIOM LOJ SNOLDI[IS 00} fspuRq SNOLOITIS pat YA 910 UOT AvTVIOds snosovoITA
Cal Joot orydarourezour,,) ‘uot ayy yA ajyopida afyyIP @ YIM OyXYIS LOTTA teeeeees( ir yoo opoqiydume,,) ‘yoor epus;quaoy youdutog sereeeeeeeeeeee(rapmnog v ATjuainddy) ‘ynoypAM osavoo foyruRLD
S98 Gy elongie eler ere ig 'er8/e9 ene 0! gave igneieie: 10K thea wa coches. “wines ceicveice eheseue 40 (if ee te oe ee tee eee ee HH ee EO ETE HHH EH HH HEHEHE HHH HES HERE HEED aPURLY . .
Deen cece secseeces ese saprererareescsrecsgnersseeeectsee seca
Sereteocooercee (sr aTURIO,,) ‘VOIU JO S[VISAIO OGIVI YA O}UIS VOLTA Sete eee e tence este et rene eer estes settee anette sess eeeees rQT
*biap 6 © ssip, $0. 9.50\0.0 «OO RTE UHATITA SAK) pCO ROT LOIN neyo 28: 2.8 s.cuOGT
seer Opreresel eee
stropreeerteees
OIE 0 CCAR RACES 22)" SO Mee Si2 e.stie, 2.0/8) \sisiei gcse siaseieisereiol oleic On
“Cq ,,o]queur,,) Spasopoo suid pur qeap Souojsaunly Uetsouseut yorduog
*ponuguor-—-—-
‘nordiwoseqd
Salen ententes Eee eee . .
Sess SSeS = SS Ss aS et ee
‘suounloeds

<<<Page: 663>>>

AITO IO OOOO OOM Yoh soya wrakenta i fy UoyYOnOFT svpSnog Jo yuys ‘ol “LE “TS
eer seer eets es ees CII (0) 0 a Ae a ee
Poteet cece ree cccseseceeransesseonees
betopulcncbeiclesekcacleneie 8 eleiehs cai e101 4010/9. 0:¢ eielekelers
wisheneMtacneisieitrtihtie Pleiy, wieie.8's9) 49 88 OTs
hrnchcieiciensje Xi sieseieieyeie s1sie sere seie/eiegnysie
"O*SUIT, UOWYSNaLT svponog ‘oy ‘LE ‘TS
Sheneisig eseieseis>g © sale isieeeisectyel e's \eheiG tessa) eieis eie:¢
Shepciwncas ee Shee.eheacioreesthshess)* 8: 2)9.9) 08 () TysxeheXelsie'ei gee
**Auvdmoy Suiuyyy umbuospy ‘og ‘re ‘eG
sPeveneepasseneneiespie’*) Hee kee iedpieieiaie cold sve) seiereie oes.n.» © *18™ Up TanOiSuaola youduioy reece trercccceeoecceeesoe ss taddoo aAlVU SutuItyuos yoo asozyvnb pur DMOTYD poxiwe v ‘uoIVooISse yourstpur ut avdsplo} por pozipeyshio Jo dnosy *txoddoo aayjvu yy zZ4.tenb pur oy1opyo wt zjaenb pur xedsppoy pod pozypeyssip PRPIPISSO ise S/SV8KG: 8 Siti) S88 A MRIRLSS SiSiNe © winlelasin eceis eines ore IOy pot pue zyrenb
JO s YY SopiM soyour p ‘z}.1eNb Jo ULOA v Jo JOU VAT ste ce scene cereresseasowereciyesees sampgkUlt ZIIUND ayy Ul yey} pur toddoo of}4I[ Nq suleyuOD UsUHOAds sIY, ‘*oJopide rvfnUAS jo Surjroo v
Aq popunotins av z1enb jo sopnpskure oyy, ‘z41enb jo sepnpsAure yA ‘dea ojopide ue Suteq osvq oy} ‘feproyepsAuv oa1our nq % ‘ON Surpqurosat yoo Tr eteecesreeee ss QpIxO pal YIM pozvoo [vap poos v pur ‘sasseut [voltards
Io popunot ut suraq uoyo toddoo oy} fernjonays [eplorepsAure 0} Aouop
U0} B AMOYS oINJXIUL oY, ‘*toddoo ut Yor os aymb you ynq ‘T ‘ONT sv oUILg ***quoo rad (9 plolk 0} poyeuysa st adord sit, “sstut oy} YSnory) poplaip Arvpnsert toddoo oaryeu ur yout Arad ‘zyAvnb ayy] & pur ojopide Jo oanqxiqA,
“tory di19saqq
PUY LHRT sevah oy) Huinp ‘soars oosjuopy puv asvjwog usonjaq jorusip ay) Uo papoapqos “aH ‘sypaauru ‘sy904
houny ay “Of 89 ‘QPS
Ce ey GE ‘OF
©) 6:0) 06) 6 6.6 @ 01078 “ouLoRLORg jo qaed "NI ‘eo ‘OP
FO LOO ODS r DORE EOD FIO:O0) 01] CACO DEI
Trt rouLsuLsng uooos “MAS “LE ‘TE ‘8h
ARES EAS ACC NON OCIS 0) OS IE ad
*xoq
‘suouutoads
“ON OAISSa1501
94) fo ansojDIDA
paises dacs ca gene eicoue’ *wetatyyetine cere ele’ abel claba cay <, OPUS ,,) ‘yoor apud[quIoyTy |
Be ae EO aR RE OYE OECD 11.0 CO. OD CAO SOI ChACROIOO.O HALEY GY gf
PEER SUO DIO BOCAS O.G.0:0°0:00 G9 G.000100.00 OCOREADOD op Ago po ROE a
Tet este eee cree esi eeeeseeseeccccresecureesnoscece sees souuBld PlOSSIOUD Teeecereeceeoooe (Cor orydtoulrjout,, ‘ivdspjay puv zjrenb) ‘yoor zyaunb AB

<<<Page: 664>>>

‘oprees
BISON) 0 POS BU a
SLOP) ASKS SSP SRO N BIS eLERASESH OMe TDeyereneue norerer®
ernemenpeche ‘ORD sks iaxeleieledeietessierensverei(yip ese ©: #lerey see
***4JlIp WoIZ “OD UOSeUOWUG ‘OE ‘OF ‘OS
wo Sop uoseUO\UY ‘TE “BE “OG ee eesrees 8, ydjopuey ‘6 '6e ‘0S
TOPt tt tee e ee ereeeoneeeeeseeee
+ *eanap
** SuIqeo Ivo yoorg Jo paq ut “OT “GE “OG °**** eJopida YIM poyeoo reds ‘ova pue zy1eNb Jo wIaA YA ZyTeNb snoulsn.I8F
Sere ee rope teeter ee eeee seen ertecee ce
Aurdwmoy uoseuojug ‘Ze “GE ‘OG
tee e etree tees teen caper een eeeee
eeeseee
seeeressKuvduiog vyosouurqy ‘eT “6k ‘0G
Se cer ieee nitions aicinn oS pete aelmnieln
seeeeees Kuedutog vyosouury ‘OT ‘Ge ‘OE teecereceece “ynTq dey R Wody ‘OT Se 1G
Opt ttre eter eeres rope etee cece
Tr eessees Gory sa1BIG popup ‘GE ttt ttre testes sz eNb Jo syueulseyy rv[nGeim Sururezuos yoos ojopidr T S peyuyy J i UBT pee N es I pred
| | |
je ee ee dbo veve
|S ee ewe ewe sere rere sees essere seseeee
oy} Ayediountd ‘zy2enb puv ojopidea yy pelfy sentaro ‘dey [eplopepssuy
wee ee ene zh eeier eis) eehe exeveleisiereseeleie\#\ 0, ¥idasteversyalerevess erasers oa ther hey |e
eee ewer eoe
1 UMOIE | reeeees dvay oyur ATqydoosedurt sassed 41 pur ‘lopoRITyo | SIY} JOS! OUIUI OY} puUNOL Yoo oY} Jo Youur £ 4 YSnoIY} pos0yzjvos oyopida Jo syoods ouy sty pure ‘ormjoniys [epropepsdure 0, Aouapus, v svy ‘syuaUt “Hv IvpNHuev [[euUs oul Suryeorq ‘aanyonays osodde.y ‘yoo oyoprdo yorduog Tit eeeseseececesceess sonopide poyeiptd UTM polly sarytavo ‘deay [epropepsAury
Teer ereeeeceeeeccees sap Ulodf ‘desy Jo sovjins Surjsoaut toddoo oaryeN Snes tet oie es dcitieieieleclgiyaeres eR E ls «(0'>'s"!'= Joddoy {otlOd SIO ‘yoor ojopido poyessoquisip AYied ur seddoo oareu jo yous osuery sreeerecceccecsecs TEplopepsAUE a1oUl Inq (GZ) TZ “ON So[quiesey ATPPSIS S1OTOD yUaOSOpLIT YILM poysiu1v} ‘soreos taddoo jo ony ysep ysoumye usuIdeds Jo ro1s0yuT ‘syu1of ;eanyeu Jo sovjins efor oy} ATrvam Sutzea0d roddoo vatyeu Jo sofvos uty} ‘zjaunb YUM pa[y sepnpsdue ‘[epropepsAure yeyMoutos oinjonsys ‘ajopida oarssvyAy reeererecsecesscsseceesssesee es ssaddoo jo syoods pue ourjuadios YIM z120nd Tetteeeeeeeccecseceeeerees ajopida Jo spurq MoreU YM Jodsel por yoosrodury |
Sr SISVANGH acts Henecoue Bis: arsisie)sieisiisaucre-sieneaiehestiensehexexenicaiele:ose\ep\elelelaheaselalejcce) NA meCg
ue ojopida yy poextut simoo0 ‘yo0.1 asozyrenb UMOIG YSIMoTTaA) raded Moyo P pids YIM pox ¥ q YSIMol] 9A
SuI[quiesar
ee |
recsetecereeccecececesecessssraddoo aAryeu yyM ojopide pur reds snoorvo[eg Toerctececcerecerereeceeeo qivys pauopurqe ue Wor ajopide ur Joddoo saNeN TS eee tre eee tte sense eee esseccesseceeaaecsnscnsereeuaerees QINIORIT Jo syutof yo soorg uo Aypedrourtd ‘1addoo jo savos uly} LM oarsseur ‘ajopidq | eee e ee eereeccossescmecccesee'esigddoo dATICU ya reds ‘o[va pur ojopidg sae Wieiatorelereare srefelee. dis 0 ei4aie wei SiwlWiee asiee Stewnie.s steldaniete siainin Ne ONY | poteyyvos ApivpnSermt soddoo sayeu yy sino00 ¢ poxiutoyut ojopide pue wodl Jo oplxo orjouseur YIM avdspray pos Jo AT[edioursd posoduios yooy Tr etececceescerseees(or) SET “ON YUM pazeioosse punoy raddoo oatyeu Jo ssvyl
PTE eee tee centre eee tee ce tne ee eeeeeeeeseeeee seat UENOI] PoyeUIUias
-sIp zyenb opyyy @ YIM Uo o1youUseUt pue ojoptdo yorduio0d aq 04 sutaos uoutoods oy, ‘der onpeseq v oyur sossed Ayyenpeas yorym deay jo yuiol y
*AypLoo'T
‘word i0soq
‘ponunu0g—hauny gy * *¢ fq pajsaqj09 ‘sa4o pun
‘spDLoUIut
‘strauutoads JON
“ON OATSSol001g
‘sy90L Jo ansojnjny

<<<Page: 665>>>

Ae tae et eee he AOULOD JSVOL JO GSA | BO[s yATq seers" SUIGvO IvOU YooIg JO paq ur *uoTy |
-Bd0[ Uleysom S09 Suliojdxy uvowoury ‘G |trrtt ttt
OES COINS CACORE TERE SCE OCS ASD 0) ofr UO OO OOO OOo
. . . . . . °
eeeereesece
evccecececoees zarenb pur avds ‘opeo opuyerg ssoddoo aaryeu YM z41enb ut syopido poyerpry Pt oe esse neeeeeeereteereerevereoeeeceeesesrrpnig
asvyueo sod ‘safonied ouy ut ssvur ay} Ysnoay} poroyyvos xzoddoo yim oopidy
socecreserorororn SUILO[UXY UBOIOWULY. ‘TT | eatebersherexstorstekeye fexeHetereporsrotehsyete¥svere!eferereyereleNoleer ag (1c) sATyCU YIM zZAvnb pur ayopidsy simepaeneermcicc ce 2 °%208'* <> ATR TIS TOM OIC ,
uo ae ary @) to1todng oye] os) u0ysog TT ee a i ers y tenoryy pesoyjvos 1oddoo oayeu Jo aSvyzusd tod [[wUs v YyAX z}AeNb ut ojopida poyeipry “uloA MOLY OD Yoot-dery, ONG “LTH ‘6h *teddoo oywuoqsvo usesS Lq pourrys royyvur AyjAva YIM poysnzoua 1addoo OAIYEN Pree tree ans esses cece eesgnececsecerslecececececes rreeeees toddoo jo aSvyuoo sod [[euls v ILA ayopide oanduty srecereeecevecereeesssraddoo oAlyeu pur ivds snooivo[e%9 * ojopide poyeipes pue zyrenb pozyyprissi9 teeter eeee eee eeseeeveesseriipnh ayy ut taddoo oaryeu ‘ajopida payeiper Jo uorrysnsour yytM ojopida pur zyreny ai eiel-e).€/ €1 6°0\9)'6h0.0/016: wie-e.e18'18)i8\'0\0)'slle a¥sehe\(oi'ell nieie of wie: evete enereveyelerel elaeis, svecatane ayopida poyeipey  Ue yy ayoprdyy TODS ANNU REND NATE OU OINNGiels wie Herne ticle memane Mead OO GA EU UM ZIT G
iSO Prvsseusioralensio’s|eieieisisieiessi«
ote Deererciwien®) eiel “elsuenenere() yege sree: s ekefex ie el*reioxeyeaerenete
** 0p
Stee etree rapes ere eee eeerronrerceeeeee
eee ee eoeeeee
DOIG Oot Oa ap Ocecicn ci were eee sone
ey ee
muescueie clarereie()tysiey sy wersyoleres!eceie ee) Tyee eles 81es9.ee|
Peete eee etoneee resect ceseeesonrecceneces
Settee eons reece eres essoneecseeeece cevsveeooss arpus [edioulid wWoly Iaur0d |
soMy}Iou 6-0 yoou-deva ou bar 6 6p [0 ‘evar rere rerelorera serene rere <enyvoreters tery fererase te) er ary ever slekerehelrore sr stent TACT Oo Aes MO 6 | = ogo} | 41 Youolyy poyeUlutassip iaddoo 9ATPRU jo sapolyied ouy YyIA ayopida OAISSR]AT ie een eeee ok Ce ee ey (TAK <,{OUOJSpURS JO aINORAT yeanyeu | *sapis Iv_nSor AIOA YUM UOIpsyoquioya * ‘oO SB OUIUS ,,) 9}RIS OlVeWISLI | sop! i P | 1) 9FE]S o1VeUNST | |
Pt eseeeeesoptrereesecese sgn eereeees
‘SUIGEO Ivo Yoorg Jo paq Ul ‘{eVyUepuayy *QT cee OM aa fe pe ead eee gL A pearing’? oy hl CHAN WETS S| LLOUO UAT
[RApoyoqumoy OyUL Suryeesq ‘ouojspuvs snosvorppiH1e Yyoryq,,) ejv[s oneusig
wale SEHece GP ele oes’ oie eaieelnigphisiereeig'efetera| sie e'e'e'ete! sie vistele earereidviate: seisiawoatesiei(s an ® Srotidon' yo JOIN AAs TOLUOMO AO WIOF oItI V jo sodoniwoy pur sutsitd popts xIs ‘our, Jo oyeMOGIvO ,,) SUISSTpAL Sea eieieee eee eeeuvseserensececcesseseees oo oma Krag. Jo ayuydiNs PoZtTeIsAtc
Serre ee are Neve Len cetcbede ch tr re tanone, elererei exe tetera ekeleleleresoXs Pm eeN DAE TE UON OTE) CL
“ull vyAteq Jo ozvydns pozifeysk1o pur saddoo jo yomydns snowyis Avy
"A} BIOULO] HUOO Ul ‘YFUYs WOT ‘SAM JO 4Sva OTL JTL ET ‘rE [Pei eistatatey Shar ofe et cher ese ois wisnve) eeatys areys lave bievel phase Mis teneree Fara" =*i(a Ane 8 Hen MOAT
| porayyeos Ajosieds redsppey opp Jo speyshro ‘yoo osozyavnb por aseq
| ‘Arkydaiod asozyrenb ,,) redspray oyna pur por jo speysdro yim Axkydaod poy Stee HONG secielele se oes Giri YNOs A dau “QE [POR ere eieee Ep esihoe aod ein:a aitatesee v:o)a/o%e ei sion rien ee OU Og ED UES pin dary jo PROVO, see eeessuiges Ieau “ory soyeyg poyuy ‘pe | * yup ur ‘zyaenb pur ‘ivds ‘opeo Sajopida ‘yoor dvay Jo ommyxiue v SvroooI1q yooy
2 IEEE ORI ERS AC 0) (Os SOCIO CORA TROD DR AC OOOO GOD OOO C010 Rae SNK Asi sie, therouerentie Suentiseree en eke LOUTLOL
” be)
99 99
3) be) 33 ” 99
Led bed
be) 99 >
LV of cy bY oP
ov Iv Or 6& 8& LE 9&
cé ve
ce I€ 0€

<<<Page: 666>>>

DUOC OOH TIC TA RTSE ICBO Ah ‘Op |
sisieie#.0jeisielsreiele{aslers, sles:s\qr)s-ele"sefse'5/C) ‘up ‘Op | ITO OW CON AOI OITA IGEN 8 10 eet ahdd Nai e 7 ‘GP °Qp DAD COTES EO CRIED ofa yo LayleyO ‘g a ‘Op | * GF ‘GF | Ce ) sisiagcr OF. |
soprertsseeesl
ale instereuselee)e.s/¢
Siekeiieisuoreye: Sisere:eleieeene.o.e. 6 seaccesste Opec sieiesieye *
she saslenexeiisieie, 81s1¢\9/ 98.9 SATO 1VROOT s, pAog ‘GP ‘6r Soeeeescevoes Oar die Jo poq ‘GT pur OE |
Selaisiole!sieieiesie\e\s\e seielsxeisiaesaie's ol (\ipr'e's)s'e)s)s:</2'*]
Ssiel'sioiiaiota eleuialesey eieetejerese:sereisreieie()iyere'e sexe eierere
occ eeecccccccceceoesesors CiusuMO} JO |
Aiepunog us19}s9M JO Ista opiu F “GT pur Og
SOP eS ssieneee sel TOMenszerserer eres")
+9 Ge oeie 9's OC OULUTTAT MOISOG: (Go|
See ee ee ee eee tee eee er ee ee es sOneetseeeees
oo BUIU Tee STOAIL uoluy) JO poq UT eee ae ees SOL) EL OSOULUDTAT SIOALI uorluy) |
“CAA ¢.fJ001 ZyTUNb pur opuspquioyy ,,) “*poytyrsys Afomosqo yoor opuopquioyy
ee ete ea NHI LOC OCA IO 1 0 ON IE. U0 OOS ITE
seo esenecee se cshe owns esecwe sv ceraddoo JO SUIBID fojopida pur ‘rodsef umoaq ‘n1o001g s+ +ssroddoo oAtyeu pure zyrenb jo sopnpou yy yoo.r oyoprdyy STAGE ROE UII TED COO UR RS OL COC SOOT Gyan ayopiday
*++ zoddoo oaryeu jo ‘qrvo w901S YL ‘1addoo Jo oprxo pot YUM pourrys dezy, Sen ie i ne Ci a iieire cov (; fayay aAryeu yu dey, teceeccccrorcececceess e+ 190dd09 JO OPIXO por YIM YOOI JO sopnpoNy seeeeeereree ss OU OTYO YUVAL polly sonpoAure $ yoor desy [epropepsdury Oe sodsef qooy.roduut ‘yoo OSOZJATNA i ee ey **qUOJspurs pourra OSILOD
eebe
tee ceceeeeeeece ee seo ipIDUOLGUOD PUL DUOJSpULS JO LIDIIIG sree ees WRYS WOIF (SAPIS Usyol[s) dvzy Jo vovjams poyst OPUOSHOVs pu ZIUNy beeeeeeecesooee dvr ur ‘saddoo Aq potofoo avds ‘oyvo pur zeny tse os es ee devwceceor ce oe oui TIM UOMOUN Te GUOISPULS ATU teteeeeeeeto qriip wor ‘1oddoo aAjeu JO Sulyrod YIM suoyspurg
Pee e cere eranrsscsesserrsescconrestoeserssginjoRly [LINJLU JO GIRJINS OY} 0} pouyUod oq 0} stuves taddoo ‘GG ‘oN Sv aUItg
Syezefeseusstejexsie sua) ein'ehs\.eja eke" ee acersieFeceverseeqieTet |
yynos WO. S09 VOSOUULTAT SIOATL uwoluy 1G seem ewer eer er rere die reseeoarbeesdssesbhenseseessreseraresees a youoiyy | porayyvos toddoo oAnjeu jo soporued oug yt ‘der, orpwopyo [epropepsAuy
ee eee eeere
ree eeseoe
seeerereecesees Fe pL EC NAAM [[IY
jo pluiums jo uorpsod ‘1g pur ‘oT ‘Zp STS |
SosQpressserccelssesecooetcsscessssoeariin molt ‘aaddoo oAtyeu Jo speisAI0 poyeouoje Jooyrodmy
“sons ee ee eee eee ee seer essetenes
See oe ee ge hn een ae en eee ee OOO D
| uo sofvos ut sdoddoo oatyeu SortoTyo o1o0ur propep.sAure Jo ostq ynq ‘oor oureg seeeeeeoeesorn BOSOM SIOAIL UIT YB wetter ess tapIOTYO YAM poly sopnpskue ‘;epiopepsAure ‘dey orttopyo jo pog
‘++ amponays osoddery v suy ‘todsef yoojroduu umoiq yirp 10 Souo|spurs polo, V © 06) 6 & 66) 0.0) 2:e°0°8..058 IY jo yorq uo STG pure OT ee eee ee Ee rea ee OD Seen gg cat tat cence: * eke al ama ume ae oo O UO.
UPA porpy sopnpskure “der, ystppdt oseq oysioyorieyo ‘dery pepiopepscéury
“ApTROO'T
‘uondiioseg
ee vw ewe ee we
Ss = SSS eS eS w_ ewe ewe ewe De we vw ewe ee ew
Se ieee i ee ie ee oe eee el “
nie] ~ s
*xoq
ger AON
*suoutioods
‘ON OAIS we aSa.LOO1
ponunu0g—hauny sy dp fq pajaajj09 ‘sa4o pun ‘sypsauriu
‘sy904 {0 INBOJDID/)

<<<Page: 667>>>

-punog WroyyAou Fo YMOs soptut FT “SL Sep SOE
see ecocererccecossoccnrar bop OF | steeecouwocsessoovercor kd uodl Jo soporyaiud ouy sureztoo ‘dvr, ou0ysuo014 is ‘gaddoo jo yornydyns Jo wyy eynurut v pure Sezruyord ‘zy1eny
tebe tee eee ee ee eee eens see ee OTTOLINET
teeeeeeees dviy yordwmoo poureis ouy Ala A
* IaAll g[sy onbserg Jo peg = *dvay yorduiog
eeotrne ee ere ee ee teoee
‘ope
0-0 COOL OIOSOOT ENS OAC I 0) 0 soeeee
sete ee ceeesoesees TOIVRD0] SLOT A], eee oe seer ee eeee GPL Ol} LI0T ‘CP ‘6h ‘opt ‘opr teeeesopr ese etsees O Suara SeiTV ‘PP SOS soe tered) VLGi OF | (suey 79) “GE “Sr “OG
Arepunog *g uo ‘PE pur EE ‘Ep ‘GP
seee
ves ezarenb pozipeysAdo yy dety JO amnyxtyAy ‘zoddoo jo soporyaed oynuiut AroA YA desz JO 9.M4X1AT seecseeeeeeesinds topva pure ‘ayopida ‘dery Jo omyxiyAy seectree sees ceeseererere seeder ondydiod poy “8 CAQ .,fdery oyrttydiod poy ,,) *AtAydaiod por umo.tg. “oSUq OY} YONOIY] poloyyvos opIOpvaqry oY] [LIOUIUL YAVp VW
Sr ehev ele shen arerevaieiejsie eve) ereseye).sloseKoualeledonaionsleuerenensraneneess\ 68.6! iy
| \ |
ysnoayy poyeuttuossip zycenb pure ‘speysx0 S1vdsppoy por Soseq avdspyoy ‘aA ydiog *** only “yop uo drysumoy yo Are
wee ee eee ee eee eee eet e tee ee tee een eeeeteeeeese sees ® SOISPULS UMOMT settee ener eee eeeeeeeeeeseeseryoor znd pur rodser ee ee sees ee seseeescscooereeecsoseynorl gsozyunb pur des jo uorounl avon Si sy oie foils /eleverareverse) she ssrenateeteise: ehegtieveheselehgaree swans ue 1 OOM osozyrtnb OPM pur poy
Sielsiae, s/eileireisoie/eie else) e]ie\eleise 6/0) se a/9 eleLs"e e's syoxe alee elwieye) ae/ele)evenee\erevefeysels ie: Fee OUN UI”
***s*JOUIOD SvoyNOs ‘T ‘EF ‘0G
eeeeroe oowee
aotens) seis O1 elec
* TTI Jo yrururns «vou ‘GE ‘Ep TS
eee OHO DISK} DQIOD ICCG0-G
diysumoy jo Are
-punog yynos ysvd opi F “gg pur GE ‘Ep STG rte r tresses seer eeeees ssaspar v Surmtos Jodsel pur ouoyspurs poloy “OG SEF STIG [Toots eect tet e eee seers eeziienb ouros YIM roddoo oatyeu pur oyoprtdry sere eeeeree ee gnre reece eesleeeseeceneeecrseccceerssecreseecrescesocsces reese sss 10OI JJOPIda JAISSEIAL siei° #8507), WOLOLG) ras ‘op Hite | aTe le wleaielee'eteeie wie oreieis 6, sieve sie (6; SrslaiBe =, eree) ee) wleretei((3)) ayopida posoduros0p aq 0}
posoddns sourysqns yuopnsoatnd Moyjod & YALA poly satytavo ‘dey [epropepsAuy
Sp oiniieeie.e76'0) sexeie)e (eine: sieie ocr) > ehehelcles aus ee rr ee a Cin 01% g fal “op eo
yonur yytar Soseq oyoprdo oandurt ue ur soporaed ut rodsel yo posodutoo vioo01g
setae e eee eee eset eestor eee esreesitersreesecscne see iecscrreeercessereusecaseeescuecees SUlUGIA OSOZ}IUND
pur ‘10110}x0 oy} Wo ojopido poziT & pu soddoo jo yornyd[ns yy vIOd0Iq OUOYSpULE meeie wate ae pee te lites aes ges COP eun cag se em orerreriaje voljelre;<)'¢er een ee ia fen etenenehelersheiniex$) ogee wmiaie 62%) 08 hele" heer oe iene O.LLO TAD ERS, pur dv1y
udoMyoq punoy Ivds pu OUOYSpULS JO SOSSLUT popuNOL OY} JO ONO Jo JUOULSLIT
29" LOIWLOOT "s.0-9 [vyaWU Jo VYe.AYS UY,
Eiuipie\eleKe seielisisrejesie\s sielseusressteie()Tyeie-0/sies*}ejarelsiereeiele)isic: sleeve tere Xelh eK tees ckekecc iy wall: NCE celeg Rh hele O}LIS BOM pourRAS oul y
ORTON SOAR OO OOO C108 pave) ‘CT S78 {Wolo Le ie).aeiei6ilo\ai9i¢e lever aie\s ie) shmlaieeke/encieesexsierelesnleselegewieie erence) cache de ae DONO PUG] ULO by a
esi cpesinrsiaje:csiaia\e%esb)sieceleissleleieis (CGT p. SOr Tee ee earn cece sree eseeeraseces rere seres sCIQILG [[BUIS SUIUILJUOD 9}P[S BIITAL
eree
eaene BO OOREOOICO OL OOD Olas 73 ‘TP ‘Op SOTO OCC ET ROI OOO 118) ‘ON UL SUIOA SUIUTTOF ‘xedspyay por pur 9PLLOT YO
See ee ee ienion)
re Se ie A oe | SSeS
re rat rd ri =
99 39 Le) be]
9 o3 ” ”
” 39 3)
” ” 3) > oh)

<<<Page: 668>>>

ee ry
thee te seer eeseewoees gals APPLOOT ON |
eeeee
ee ey
eee ere ese ee aesee
stew ee eae ee ere eeeos
eee eee ese woe
eoeee
"OD SIU} JO UlOA pay[eo os B MLO ‘6F ‘8P ‘OF SULUIJA, LOATY [BAIWUOPT JO ‘00T ‘GP ‘RF
er ey
Ce ee)
sees saivys Jv IBALL your Jo paq ‘
bm eT} 7 LY |
Sento. secvy aS Oe eels
(ihe CLE SOR ALY I
sree pereustenneerevers
Aer elasi Or) OULU TIATY YOCT | te
eevee
a == 3 Pe ae
peseeeerecesescceceseseraddoo ay} YIM poxiul Ivdsploy por $ Iapsoq oy} uO a} O
coe eee es eee e es
eereeeees
ee er ey *deay [eproyepadure ul wees ISOZJILNY, sees esoquoryo Aq patopoo ‘yo0r asozyrenb usero ysintq ut 1addoo OAT N teeereceeceros ss ouupis ‘iedsplay pur zj{vnb Ul UOT JO VpIXO DOULA, susacnee iene seoke Fase Pr Gua dager eeeisnt geet te ORR ag
sreeseeestiod jo ayeydins jo syoads oynurut Suruteyuod yoot epus[quaoyy ++eezjivnb pur avdspjaj users ystfor8 yo Ayedioursd posodutos ower
Mois) exe is\gseiaseie cht ttf ose bie 0) e2eeaniare ©6e: o)° Spee a vursh percretreye eters) oer se'! OTTO] pur
Bolu yortq Jo syoods oynuIM Moz v YYLM Spor puL oy YYOq st pu ‘soyvU1u1opoid Ajoa.vy ivdspyay oy} § redsppoay pur zyAunb Jo APysout pasoduros ayuesy treeeseesesrreses e(tort JO apixo pur ‘dei ‘ojopida ystuseis v Jo dn oprut yoor yditosapuony) ‘auoysputs pure deiy jo uoisny Aq poonpord propepsdkuy BE [Poorest testes ssaddoo jo ayeydyns Jo syoods Moz v YIM dey ul zyenb Jo ula, Tee ee ian wee SmeL Os wee. 80 ete ey yee eraeye tue enemies ot le .cze (CAAT COON ajoprdy ,,) ‘andspyoy Oy YILM poly saynpskure $ yoor oto; Yo yeployepsduiv youdutog
oe tele ee ele ee eiviel> LOATH OBI JO UNO ;enptis osozzIeny | Meas LEI REI | Io 9GL LoL I» cel 9G1 | To PEL CoL | T» €cl xen | I oe) GGL €Gl | To» Tel GGL | P | Lo 6LL OGL Lo SII 6LL Ls LIT ton ad | Vetus 911 LU [>> CII OTT TM FIL CIT } | | ‘xoq |‘suewtoeds, ‘oN aais | jo ‘ON jo "ON | -soisorg
“uorjdiosacy
‘ponujuog—haunyyy " *¢ fg pajaaqjoo ‘sa4o pun ‘sppsquius ‘sy90.4 fo ansojnIn)

<<<Page: 669>>>

(0%)
Catalogue of geological specimens collected by Dr. D. D. Owen, and deposited in the Smithsonian Institution by the Commissioner of the
Land Office, December, 1851.
OooPwwe
0. . Fossil turtle, Bad Lands, Nebraska.
Amethystine quartz, Prince’s Bay, Lake Superior. Lepidodendron, Muscatine quarries, Iowa.
do. do. do. Pecopteris, do. do.
“Cale. tufas, St. Croix
and 7. Tutenmergel, near Amsterdam, Des Moines R., Iowa. and 9. Lithostrotion ananas, D’Orb., lowa R., Dev.
and 11. Tutenmergel, Keith’s Rapids, Des Moines R., Iowa. Plaster stone, 5 miles below Lizard Fork, Des Moines.
. Cannel coal, Barcroft bank, near Marion, Missouri. . Palwotherium Proutii, 2 lower jaw, Bad Lands, Nebraska, . Ripple marked sandstone, South shore, Lake Superior.
do. do.
Shell beds of the limestone of the Iowa, Devonian.
. Cale. spar crystals, Falls St. Croix.
20. Lingula bed, F. J, b. of report, Falls St. Croix.
A Ie do. do. do.
22. do. do. do.
23. Marine Mill trilobite grit, 4th trilobite bed of report, St. Croix. 24. Portion of large ammonite, Fox Hills, Nebraska.
29: do. do. do.
26. do. do. do.
27. Third trilobite bed, Mountain Island, Upper Miss.
28. do. do. do.
29. do. near Mouth Miniskah,
30. do. do. do.
31. Cannel coal, on branch of Aux Vasse, Callaway Co., Missouri.
. Coralline beds of Iowa city, containing Alveolites, Celleporites of
D’Orb., Calamapora polymorpha of Goldf, pl. 27, fig. 3.
. Do., containing Favosites cronigera, D’Orb.
. Do., containing both corals. Pl. 27, fig. 3.
. Orthis umbraculum, opposite Iowa Point, Missouri R.
. Selenite from the upper Carbs. limestone, Indian Creek, Iowa.
. Lepteena limestone, containing L. planumbona, 3 miles above
Savannah, Wisconsin.
. Do., containing L. sericea.
. Bituminous limestone, containing Asaphus (Isotelus) megistos of
Locke, Otter creek, Turkey R , Iowa.
. Part of scapula of Paleeotherium Proutu, Bad lands.
. Casts of Leptzena, undet, Falls St. Anthony, F. 3, a of report.
. Oolitic limestone, Lower Carbs. limestone, Burlington, Lowa.
. Retepora Archimedes, Keokuck Rapids.
. Encrinital limestone from the Lower Carb. limestone of Bur-
ington, Iowa.
. Do., containing Pentremites melo.

<<<Page: 670>>>

47. Productal limestone, containing P. Cancrini, 10 miles below Fort Kearney, Missouri river.
48. Spirifer striatus limestone, upper beds of Carb. limestone of Augusta, Iowa.
49. Productus punctatus, Keokuk Rapids, Miss.
53. Fusulina cylindrica in Carboniferous limestone, 10 miles below Fort Kearney, Missouri.
54. Fucoidal beds, Marine Mills, St. Croix, F 1, d, in part.
55. Lithostrotion, probably a var. of basaltica, Sugar creek near the lowa line.
56. Stromatopora concentrica, Lowa city, Dev.
57. Productal limestone, a few miles above the Racoon Forks on the Des Moines River.
58. Head of femur of Palzotherium Proutii? Bad Lands.
59. Magnesian limestone, with green particles of silicate of iron disseminated, intercalated with the lower sandstones, Es.1, ofreport. (Lower Silurian date,) Sac Prairie, Wisconsin river.
60. Magnesian limestone, intercalated with F. 1, 14 niiles above Sac Prairie.
-61. Lower sandstone, F 1 of report. Dalles of the Wisconsin river.
62. Lower sandstone, F 1, (Lower Silurian date,) 7 miles below Helena, Wisconsin river.
63. Magnesio-calcareous bed containing impressions of Orthis intercalated in F J. Section 5 miles above Plymouth, Wisconsin river, 138 feet above river.
64. Magnesio-calcareous rock, intercalated in F 1, 143 ft. above Wisconsin river, 5 miles above Plymouth. Contains remains of encrinites. ve
65. Lower sandstone, F 1. Petenwell Peak, 200 ft. above the Wis— consin, (Lower Silurian date.) = ¢
66. Do. of Castle Rock, 65 feet above Wisconsin river.
67. Green beds of F 1 d. charged with silicate of iron. Miniskah Pass, Upper Mississippi.
68. Brown magn. calc. bed of F 1d. Miniskah, Upper Mississippi.
69. Lower sadatae of Petenwell Peak, 80 feet above Wisconsin.
70. Lower sandstone, F 1, 52 miles east of Adams, Barraboo river.
71. Quartzite, 53 m. e. of Adams, Barraboo river, Wisconsin.
72. Do. gray.
73. Red beds of Lower sandstone, F 1, 1m. above Fortification Rock, Wisconsin river.
73'. Yellowish-red beds of F 1. Castle Rock, 35 feet above the Wisconsin river.
74. Quartzite in F 1, between the Wisconsin river and Adams on the
Barraboo,
75. Reddish quartzite 25 m. e. of Adams, on the Barraboo river, Wisconsin.
76. Light pink quartzite, sec. 34, township 12, R. 6 east of 4th P M, Wisconsin:
77. Gray quartzite, Devil’s Lake, Wisconsin

<<<Page: 671>>>

78. Pink quartzite, F 1, Devil’s Lake, Wisconsin.
79. Conglomerate of F 1, Devil’s Lake, Wisconsin.
80. Obolus beds of F 1, b. Miniskah River. |
81. Lower Magnesian Limestone, F 2, 3 miles above Lansing lowa.
82. Lower Magnesian Limestone, F 2, Cape Winnebago, Upper Mis-
sissippl.
83. Red Conglomerate, below Lac Travers, Snake River, Minnesota.
84. Specular Iron, associated with the quartzite, 24 m. E. of Adams, Barraboo River, Wisconsin.
85. Do. with the milky quartz.
86. Cherty masses, in F 2, b. near Lanzing, Iowa.
87. Cellular quartz, in F 2, b. do. in the lead bearing beds. 88. Rugged cherty beds of Lower Magnesian Limestone, (lead bearing
beds,) near the mouth of the Kickapoo, Wisconsin.
89. Lower Magnesian Limestone, F 2, a. Prairie a la Crosse, Wisconsin.
90. Do. 20 feet below the top of section.
91. Crystallizations of hydrate brown oxide of iron, on chest in beds F 2, b...of Lower Magnesian Limestone. Prairie a la Crosse, Wisconsin.
92. Kikapoo Copper ore. Sterling’s Diggings.
93. Kikapoo Lead ore, (Galena,) in F 2, b.
94. Coarse green Lingula grit, F 1, c. Lawrence creek, near the St.
~ Croix River.
95.. Coarse Lingula grit, F 1, c. Mountain Island, Wisconsin.
96. Amygdaloid asssociated with the trap of Snake River, Minnesota, near Lac Travers.
97. Do.
98. Trap of Snake River, $ mile below Lac Travers, Minnesota.
99. Do. 2 miles below Lac Travers.
100. Trap of Kettle River, 3 m. above its mouth, Minnesota. 101. Do. 16 miles above its mouth.
102. Greenstone trap from the Range near the Falls of the St. Croix,
Minnesota.
103. Porphyritic trap, Falls St. Croix, Minnesota.
104. Obolus grit, F. 1, b., nearly opposite old mouth of Black river, Mississippi river.
105. Slab, full of lingulas, &c., from the Falls St. Croix, F. 1, b.
106. Pebbly sandstone, of F. 1, a. L’Eau Clair.
107. Coarse sandstone, F. 1, a., six miles below the falls of the Chippewa, Wisconsin.
108. Fragmentary and concretionary bed of limestone, above the coralline beds at lowa city. Dev.
109. Favosites basaltica, Cam. Calamopora of Goldf., pl. 26, fig. 4,
from the coralline beds of Iowa city.
110. Do.
111. 5th trilobite of F. 1, near the base of La Grange Mountain, “upper Mississippi.
112, Sth trilobite bed of F. 1 of Report, lake St. Croix, Minnesota.
, 113. Limestone containing Retepora prisca? Fenestela cheetetes, &c.
Upper carboniferous limestone, near mouth of Missouri.

<<<Page: 672>>>

114. Spirifer limestone, near top of the lower carboniferous series, Keokuk Rapids, Mississippi.
115, Do;
116. Iron stone, similar to the “black band” of the Scotch iron masters, near Bennington, and elsewhere on the Des Moines river.
In the year 1826 Luis Berlandier, historian, geographer, and naturalist, a native of Switzerland, arrived in Mexico for the purpose of making researches in that republic. He died near Matamoros in 1851. The result of his extensive labors are in manuscripts, now deposited at the Smithsonian Institution, comprising an amount of information of the country west of the Sabine of the highest importance.
The following is a brief catalogue of the MSS.:
Travels in Mexico and Texas, 1826 to 1834, inclusive. Containing notes upon the statistics, early settlements, and Indian tribes between the Sabine and Pacific, &c., &c., &c.—7 vols.
Travels in Mexico, 1828-30. Comprising interesting notes of the early settlers of Texas, by the Spanish and French; account of the ancient Indian tribes, &c., &c.—3 vols.
Geography and statistics of the republic of Mexico.
History of the Indian tribes that formerly ranged from the Sabine to the gulf of California.—2 vols.
Notes upon the different Indian tribes of the ancient republic.—l1 vol.
Vocabularies of different tribes bordering the Rio Grande.—1 vol.
Of the Cotonames, Carrissos.—1 vol.
Of Indians that formerly lived to the northeast of Texas.—1 vol.
Of different tribes in the neighborhood of the missions.—1 vol.
Revolt of the Tepeguanas, 1616.—1 vol.
Indian assassinations of the priests.—1 vol.
Of the Texian Indians. Buit.—1 vol.
Indians of Texas and Coahuila; fertility of their soil, &c.—1 vol.
Medicine of the ancient and modern Indians of Mexico.—1 vol.
Paintings of thirty different Indian tribes.—1 vol.
History of the agriculture of ancient and modern Mexico.—1 vol.
Regulations of the ancient Presidios, 1772.
1.—Travels in ‘Tamaulipas and New Leon, 1844.
2— § ‘¢ ‘Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosi, 1846.
5 ‘“¢ the country west and south of Matamoros, 1847.
The above vols., 1, 2, 3, of travels, give an interesting history of the country adjacent to the Sierra Madre.
March and espionage of the American army from Corpus Christi till the occupation of Matamoros.—1 vol.
Geographical Gazetteer of the territory lying between the Sabine and Pacific, comprising a history of places, situations, positions, &c., &c.— 12 vols.
Geography of ancient and modern Mexico.—1 vol. notes.
* See p. 13 of this Report.

<<<Page: 673>>>

Geography of Puebla, Mexico, Mechoacan, Oaxaca. Position of places in the above Archbishoprics.—1 vol. notes.
Diary of the Commission of Limits in Northern Mexico, 1830.—3 vols.
Diary of Gen. Rivera, New Mexico and Texas, 1728.—1 ‘vol.
Com. Limits, Geogrdphy and stat. Physiques, &c., &c., by various authors, with notes by Berlandier.—Notes.
Astronomical observations made in Northern Mexico, ‘Texas, &c.— 6 volumes.
Dictionary. Geology of the rocks and minerals between the Sabine and Sierra Madre.
Upon the Meteorology of Texas and the valley of the Rio Grande, comprising some important deductions in the science.—15 vols.
Observations, cyanometer, pendelum.—2 vols.
Disquisitions upon the Fevers of the lower Rio Grande, &c., &c., &c.
—Notes.
Maps of States accurately and scientifically projected by Berlandier, member of the Geographical Society, viz: Tamaulipas, Vera Cruz, San Luis Potosi, Zacatacas, Juanaxata, Orirava, Tampico and adjacent country. Gulf of Mexico, vicinity of Vera Cruz.
Maps in MSS. of journeys, routes, valleys, defiles, suburbs of towns, villages, &c., &c., of the country lying between the Sabine and Rio Grande and valley of Mexico. 1.—Topography of routes and sections in New Leon, Tamaulipas,
San Luis Potosi, made in 1844, with distances.
do. do. from San Luis to Matehuala, distances, &c. do. do. from Matamoros to Morelos, Guajuco, &c. 2.— do. from Victoria to Tampico, Soto la Mariana Santander. do. Matehualato Boquillo, Palo Blanco to Missions. do. Tampico to the city of Mexico. do. Tampico to Matamoros, accompanied with notes.
3.—Topography in detail of the route from San Antonia to Laredo, in Tamaulipas, &c., &c.
Of the country between Matamoros, Barreales, Mosquete, Caracol and Anacahuetas, Tamaulipas. Survey of the Rio Grande from the mouth to San Elirario, plans of Presidios, &c., &c. Maps and topography of different portions of the country south of the Rio Grande, between Reynosa and San Fernando. 12 MSS. Tampico and its environs, lower Tamaulipas, San Patricio and Monclova, city and environs of Tampico, plans of Tamaulipas, of different sections of the State, &c., &c., and 13 maps in MSS. Various routes of ancient Texas, giving positions of the Indian tribes that formerly inhabited Missions. Different plans of the State, sections, ancient maps, &c., &c. 25 maps in MSS.
Upper Tamaulipas, Coahuila, N. Leon, with topography in detail of various routes in the centre of the Republic, bars and entrances of the coast south of Brasos Santiago, &c., &c., &c. 23 mapsin MMS. »
Maps of different portions of the coast between Tampico and River Goasacoalco, 8 MSS.
Department of Orizava, Jalapa, Canton of Cordova, Orirava, Cosamaloapan, plan of Cordova and Birava cities, &c.; of the Isthmus

<<<Page: 674>>>

of Tehuantepec; State of Mexico, of the Lakes, Valley, Tenango, Queretaro. The Huasteca, San Luis, routes through the Sierra Madre east and north, valley of Vernallo, Mateuala to the north and east, &c., &c., 16 MSS. :
Topography in detail, of the country lying between San Luis and San Fernando, Gulf coast, &c., &c., 6 MSS.
CIRCULAR. . Is it a reference ora Lending Library ? Special, or Miscellaneous? 12. Are the books arranged on the shelves by subjects? If not, what is the arrangement? 15. How many days and hours is the Library open? 14. How many volumes were lent during 18547 15. How many persons have borrowed books during 1854? 16. What number of volumes in the Library are in the English language ?—F rench 7— German ?7—Spanish 7—Other Modern Languages 7/—Latin ?— Greek ?—Hebrew ?—Oriental 7— 17. What is the date of the last printed Catalogue? Cost of its publication, size, and number printed? 18. What system of classification is adopted in the construction of the Catalogue? © 19. If possible, state what number of books have been read during 1854, in the different classes of literature—how many works ot theology, law, medicine, fi hat particular books have been most called for. 20. On the 1st of January, 1855, how many books, &c., in the Li-
Be As
oe 66
66 oe
brary ? | esl | ma : | Other articles, | | Books. | Pamph-| Manu| Maps. | Music. | Engray-| Specimens of Aecaitg Te 7! Total. i | 3 le j | + 3 O nto ¢ Sy ra | lets. | scripts. | | ings. fine arts. dals, é&c | | Purchases ......: | | |. ee EE | ee ee nt Be eel Donations....... | 1 | rae ae oP vo > roe Genome 2) a lan a a ae oo om Sera = ! Exchanges....... | | | | } 1 | | 28 —_—— —_ —— —— an Wotal.22405. |}
2°, What collections of Natural History are connected in any way with the Library ?
22.. What is the nature and extent of these collections ?
23 ‘What other Natural Histor y collections, public or PUNE, are found in your neighborhood, and what is their character ?
24, Have any regular publications of Memoirs, Transactions, Proceedings, &c., been made by any Institution or Society with which the Library is connected, and of what character and extent ?
. 25. Please send copies of your Catalogue, Charter, Rules and Regula-
tions, &c., and any information respecting the history or condi

<<<Page: 675>>>

tion of the Library which you desire to be included in the Report; also a list of all Reviews, Magazines, and Newspapers taken regularly in your library or reading-room.
Copyright Laws, §c., relating to the Smithsonian Institution. CIRCULAR.
SmiTHSONIAN Institution, Washington, 1855.
Str: Your attention is respectfully called to the fact that an act of Congress of August 10th, 1846, requires you to send to the library of the Smithsonian Institution a copy of any ‘book, map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving,’ which shall be copyrighted by you.
The following is the law on the subject:
An act to establish the ‘ Smithsonian Institution,’ Se.
“Src. 10. And be it further enacted, 'That the author or proprietor ot any book, map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, tor which a copyright shall be secured under the existing acts of Congress, or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copyrights, shall, within three months from the publication of said book, map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, deliver, or cause to be delivered, one copy of the same to the librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, and one copy to the librarian of the Congress Library, for the use of the said libraries.
“Approved August 10, 1846.”
An act of Congress passed at its last session, and approved March 3d, 1855, contains the following section:
“Src. 5. And be it further enacted, That all books, maps, and charts, or other publicaticns entered for copyright, and which, under the act of August 10th, 1846, are required to be deposited in the Library of Congress, and in the Smithsonian Institution, may be sent through the mail tree of postage, under such regulations as the Postmaster General may prescribe.
“Approved March 3, 1855.
The following instructions have just been issued by the Postmaster General in reference to these acts:
‘‘No. 35. Copyright books, charts, &c., required to be delivered to the Library of Congress or Smithsonian Institution, and which are entitled to pass free in the mail, should be superscribed ‘Copyright for Congress Library,’ or ‘Smithsonian Institution,’ as the case may be.”
These provisions will enable you to send all your copyright publications to the Institution free of charge, and you are requested to forward them by mail, in the manner indicated.
Please inform us by letter when any articles are sent, and enclose a postage stamp if you wish‘a certificate of deposit to be returned.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 676>>>

Letter from the Secretary to Hon. Linn Boyd........ slchtele eloves slerale Wet ereig sulaleterats Letter from the Chancellor and Secretary to Congress........ siabralelels Sesieietetel sleyel Te Officers and Regents of the’ Institution. . 0. ..c0. .Sd005 00s sole on estes eolelebeitlerss Sjeielste Membersiex-oficiosofethenl nS titutror 23.5_ieists\e°a tae faletote to(ais afelots ole: 'vore's els snialaretieeielas Elonorary: Members of the Institutions 5215. c/s... a0 s/oc ic oe ie cl ddcrecle'slesslet Srefaniaherel ate Report ofthe Secretary for [54 /... oct as Reais sis crcleele sictereieere oralestel el sieinietolsisstaleret ois Report of Professor S. F. Baird, Assistant Secretary. ...ccssccecccsisccccuvecs an Donationsto they Museum 4. :.i6s%.6 <5 65190) 8670/6. ashore) esie.0, ovwlejsisic. cis ishslone steisssieveorersieiarsiols List of Meteorological Stations and Observers.......... aecheletolelele oleh. cxelerskeren erenepers Meteorological Observers. New York system....... AO OOOO HO OULTOOOC sloletereaaiejeyets Alphabetical List of Meteorological Observers.......... siaiejas-cilsisiseeises sei seie oielels
Report of the Executive Committee for 1854 :........csseeesees veinle wieeieisioin.e sfevexs General Statement of Expenditures. .........crccccsecsene silsialeie\ciisblaiells leis eieteiaveie « Fund Account ........ ee « [9 0)'9/ ae) wi elas salenoheteinzo 0/sie| oye Co'e! ie‘lojoqatcrs javere,etehee ichabie-e ale solerere Report of the Building wausihittee for: 1854), caters Meteors clave aisisieleiatelevieie <iaislalavels
Journal of the Board of Regents.............604. dgoae exalalcGvena)o,eie ai ailejacsatonsetsiene
Report on American Explorations in 1853 and 1854. By S. F. Baird.............
PS GUOTOS s sloies sisis cress ele avec! ele citys 3 aidiaialeis"atelelaxeeie Vale o¥eleletel sioherarapisieie'eai-eisie
‘©The Camel.’? By Hon. ekonee P. MAR SHisveicieis/eierseye efofefelcvaieisisfelekeieus:« ‘*On the Nature and Cure of the Bite of Serpents, and the Wounds of Poisoned Arrows.’’ By Dr. D. BraInarD.......00. Terolatetavelolobaramhetere ‘* The Zone of small Planets between Mars and Jupiter.’’ By Professor E. Loomis...... 0) a ekeFan ois ele fedvaro%s isi s)/e/ate ahesialarela}aisholstia\eiels) aise sisieielesjevelelaia ** The American Fire-Alarm Telegraph.’’ By Dr. Ww. F, CHANNING...... ‘he Union.?’4, By. Protesson Henny: REED A «, .0,0.yie0e.0.0.0's's viene ave ced eer “Meteorology’” By R:Russent,: Esg...ecseecsasie Bavioiexelevenrsraiste sie (eisie
Appendix to Mr. Russell’s Lectures. By the Secretary of the Institution .
Ex. Docs 24——26
98 98
137 147 156 181 215

<<<Page: 677>>>

On Mr. John Wise’s Observations and Inferences respecting the Phenomena of a Thunder Storm to which he was exposed during an Aerial Voyage, made by means of a Balloon, June 3, 1852, from Portsmouth, Ohio. By Dr. Rosert ELAR E aieisieiernisy<clavioiers tele Sie's.cis eretncere wahalsrelsieielale sie icie Saleyeke sees ieieiele: sis oaieeimaleiels
The Climate cf/San;Prancisco. By Drs Hl. Gupeonsie<ic% seis: ccieiscesisle! oie einvs,clesiscciareie
Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, California. By Tuomas M. Logan, NL AD Eei Noten <yolavelsersrcieloiee.aleloje eo teleyouereelofetoete efeteve n\etoles se avahute (tole shavelay !siovers elexele:
Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, California. By F'. W. Haren, M. D.
Remarks contributing to the Physical Geograp} y of the North American Continent.
ByIuLiTs PROLBEL) « <,zisvisiaicislssatsieny ois eels srainpiemiele ae ae sie breideraaanrenabammnfats: CORRESPONDENCE——-NATURAL HISTORY.
Natural History of Beaver Islands, Michigan. By Jamus J. Srrane.......sisinas\s0 Habits of the Black Bass of the Ohio (Grystes fasciatus). By Joun Korr.....+..-Natural History of the Country about Fort Ripley, Minnesota. By J. F. Heap, Sur-
PEOMWTE S.A. isto ore gheves ousssyoloe: bialoiess.s o10:0:4,.0: 4) 4.0/6) suepie Scayeidsh oie) eyefisiakepskereu)s) elu ateaisele' a Habits of the Gopher of Illinois (Geomys bursarius). By J. B. Parvin..... aevelols Habits of a species of Salamander (Amblystoma opacum). By Rev. Cuas. Mann... On the Amblystoma luridum, a Salamander inhabiting Wisconsin. By P. R. Hoy..
Diary ofan Excursion to the Ruins of Abo, Quarra, and Gran Quivira, in New Mexico, under the command of Major James Henry Carterton, U.S. A....-Report on the Fishes observed on the coasts of New Jersey and Long Island during the summer of 1854. By 8. F. Bairp........siclanescletelove\ ocayeterelethoretelete ste eicveie Catalogue of Rocks, Minerals, and Ores collected during the years 1847 and 1848, on the Geological Survey of the United States Mineral Lands in Michigan. By Dr.
CHARLES T. JACKSON. 2.0 siesecice Mohayevectersjaeieer spelotostcinietslslel sisi) =) 3) wi eleis) ohsis} siene Catalogue of Rocks, Minerals, Ores, and Fossils collected by Dr. Joun Locke..... Catalogue of Rocks, Minerals, &c., collected by J. W. FosTER ...cocseeseceesees Catalogue of Rocks, Minerals, &c., collected by J. D. Wuitnny.......... aicatetstetons Catalogue of Geological Specimens, collected by Dr. D. D. OWEN ........... see Catalogue of the Berlandier Collection of Manuscripts, Maps, &c....eeereeceeeces Circular sent for information respecting Libraries .....0ecesees cecreeeeecececees
Circular to Publishers respecting Copyrights...... a Sleleje|viee a csie.e wee sec. is alels see
Page.
338 367 384 387 393 396 398 400

<<<Page: 678>>>

es Abbott, Dr. R. V., Table of Rain by......csscccccrencecscccctnccecisssvccsce « 245,24 PMDET CEE ecisiaseinie » SiesTeteleleltrivicle sicele efeieiee ie s'as'e sigioianieie eieles s/s16 accsvarctele: ogoheloga shenpole,s cae
PANDA GUN ere ciores oj sic cciels ste oc6 Bate) staitioys acve/s)nieresvovels slaw \elella:e.ee ejelajaie(s(e/e/euse,caleheslere! sleet OO) 110
Abispah river....+..0s0s0 Bodie a sloleicieisieis 6.0 es 0. 0/4s leleiarsieelaclelslae's alee! ee/cisioisienisishalEtCOMCO Aboriginal remains, attention directed t0...ccceccececseccccescsccsccscesscssece Il AO PINULINSY Of stars o crecicie ociaeieieiee s.e.seice.e 6 we wigneioietaleeteyehexsisiohsteiotayoie rae rekare] sha hoe siecareks 300 PNPTAMUSIVETSICOlOL. «s+ +s 5% ve c/cles'e)e/e wiesje,0,0)0°¢5 ofe.ee.cie.s pieiciavsievie ehevshavjere aiaierelersieisiey= 341
INDSOLP LOM sg WeVEll Otis) s/s ejslsersie'ale vie «sie4.0ob oer so so ees eelantels Se ieeieleian.ers nape 226 Absorption, Magendie’s Experiments On....seeeeseeseeees eae ceneses Sess ceeens : 129 Abstinence of Camel.....es..0e.
UNCACIAG: Wo.teels 4 so sean es
sefailexeieya/e aheistiereleie oeialejesls) ofevsisiagelelasteisieiaysis sieicleiessss'svai6 sjsye 118 Academy of Natural Sciences... <.20.00ees0ce cece sleseeeicees seesececwesesicvescs | dds 42 Academy of Natural Sciences, Cal., Magnetic Instruments for..... ejatenitheie/eistherererste 16 Academy of Sciences at Paris, Memoir on Poisons, ......ccccsscecccrevcctsccces 126 Acanthocottus virginianus (common Sculpin)....++...006 syoloy(elejalelsielsie(enys ole eYesyels ciel 328 INEHIEVEMEMES OL) WAN, ais e\sujc)e.04.0 4nd b)e0 6 9,0 0/0 0:6 $40.09 6-815 Galas one wis adie'6 ae Sofoinid 98 Aehirus mollis (New York sole). oso secsces site oe ce sianseseeecesensissocne sj ssiciese\ate 350 Achromatic Microscope, Description Of....ee..cecssceseceees INCIGY AYP cie. sine 0s 6220.0 seeige Acquia Madre.... Adams, J. Quincy, Language of, respecting Will of Smithson........... syeiele 7 Adams, Professor @2t Bio. osic.s ean se eees A Adaptation of Camel to climate and soil of the United States.... Additions to the Library during 1854....... ecesenes oo te cena crcieesscerees vevees 24 Additions to Library by Exchange............ soe cceseccercee o190,0 6 oasis secieisie oe 20
Addresses’ of Consress'to) Canadas! sicic: vieieje esis.eies oxsjesiehaies) oreje vidas sje: eee, (SORE RO 173 HAGETESSES OF PACKAGES tecteeseis e's © 21.0100 0,090 99.0 see s'siepee v's 0.0i9 syore\eieissisisisienest coils 32,33 Addresses to Canada, printed in French........sceceesseess fe isteickeystersts ofa iagshelalefolons 174 Admission of packages for Smithsonian Institution duty free... ..eeseeeeececeeees 21 eNdvance, Brig... 9... ¢ sie eisesyersie 9d niia,e ee siewioles eee eevee ce eco cceetorccecece 92 Advantages of Camels in security against stampedes....-s:eececesereeee plete siakskohe 121 Advantages of Fire-Alarm Telegraph.......... sfeistexeiles. ore oio{e dhs leie}slectojone siaislaye! »:ersks 153 Advantage of greater range of vision on the Camel than the Horse........ Bano dar 121
Advantages of introducing the Camel in AMEerica....cesecccccccscccscceccceroce 116 Advantages of the Camel for Military Purposes....... ‘Acronaut,, Safety of, in ‘Chunder Stories ..c0.0.c.ce' es sieopipecscisaa sr pie ce ey sieiehacets AG 224 PNETIGA elslsieree occas = sate srojansiane Fob 6 od OG ganar sipislae 38,45 Africa, Exploration of ........ Selsbieec Africa, Whirlwindsi ........ Agassiz, Prof... oerarereiels pisisela qie\9'sininie eussi> Sinipslere mielpis,p seis eve. eisistalsjole\syeisjsiele 42 Agassiz, Prof , Snecies of Fish demerits = Baal RAE niith socie aden satire 342 Wee attdimed iby the Camel .s-cisesciats' a snaauyoisie sas Gib.dtemle wets isis inlamme Pha piwtebenateteeiarets 113 Agents for distributing ye innteee
ewww ene ear e eee tn ee eeeesee e@eeeereveeeeaeeereeecee eee 187
Oe ee meee eraser eeseseeere eee Sree ee ee sree eeeeeoe 36

<<<Page: 679>>>

Page
Aghouat, GeM...ssersseeresere ejalerejer olanaieve) auelelole’sloksl eysiekeheleielcyevaicie.(o) osieietoveiccte/syerer tere 109 Agriculture, connected with Rain...... $00 sein es cise sisrecishs siajesielafcieis.s\selelsieloieeielais 243 Aguachas, Las....,.seeeeseeeree a alesye ete eiesilonaid shepoicreketeterstetos’ elovelersietersrcieekersrerevere 304 Agua de Juan Lujan..... Beis ie ve\oleiviekesiese/ ein) acy c 6)'9;sinve ej e\sioieianpefeys)s (90) s[ sieiseje!ele\e)scje/sie 299 Aid afforded Lieut. Strain by English party. ...sssssseeeesceeecceres elaiaie/delaieys ae 93 Aid furnished Exploring Expeditions by Smithsonian Institution............++.4+ : 79 Ailurichthys marinus (Catfish)...... a) 6's, o1siesiel oat ofeessieswialesvoleleieladiveteieics ole islelsis/cctele “moO yO -Ul Air, Composition of....... sie sclaisteseyestel ole w)Seoreictes sipieleivicte’e vis oleic motel siskeleisisisyslesis eee» 182,193 Airy, Prof......+eeSmpoe sieeisieselees)olevel ai cieleveseneloraisuctaiels: ejelssleyetaiet-tetetets hens sansichs 181 Alabama ....s+seeeess aisielaetelseleyeet rete iecscl= ate cia {ofejes!sielaieisier< aie iors Seles s.e sieveis: SO) 40540549 Alabama, Direction of Thunder Clouds in. .....ccccccscccsccsccccescoucsesccase 200 Alama de Parras.....eeseret etanviencrrestote ai canlslctopsyacrererestelste stele.) Si datatera eie[shetereiare ete 87 Alarm Bell tolled by Lightning... ...c.ccscecceccccccercccsscces aie ieelerancee craters 155 Albany...-.sseeesecececcnees Ales pet pina oS oC donloaiue ara Sah choteta) siaie Orel Acrouerere ste 35 Albino Blackbird..... ae cuatercheciaie Slaves stevens car eia\citeta evietehels aisteystercte: cotene slot ets crevers ote 38 Albino female of Agelaius Pheniceus ..........Sjsarapelcisperaiseilele stecie moreraicietsee oiers 45 Albuquerque...ccccccecreccccsccccsseccrocvrecs afstehatetenfetele eisistcliersetelsieiarshete 37, 83,275,316 Albuquerque, Expedition from... 22... eee ee seen cece erence ee ereececees nb tiomonowG 296 Albuquerque to Zuni, Road from...... aie Gave ue.nis waroieteyevesters aefereestete mole eteteraie) store 276 Alcohol in Cases'of Serpent Bite: ooo. isc ccs cid decd sess tees ee trslel net cceeses He 132 Alcohol no security against effects of Venom of the Rattlesnake....... a Seis Sd beeierd 132 Alcohol, use of in Treatment of Serpent Bite.........eeees aleniavelete! eibsfevetat ave tele oho 136 Aleppo, Turcoman Camel procured from .....-sfelirasvalatanis qreietela sfeestere (etetetere Re, 121 Alexander, Capt. B. S..... areata ae. dia autietane etetore slene, aerarertette Sia saic' elle Chaat ataretoieystehe 69,7
Alexander, Prof. S. A., Photographs of Eclipse by...... iyatatelsete stectate “5 Geoipad cine 17 Alexander VI........Sofa siaiee saayols serous iolespeetelVainus sree afalereiroletessielayle alaletenietenvereiors 159 Alexdretta. ...eessees a aifadnalsysfexesiecte a fecisfays\'e eeyaveratstens FOOD LOO U LOA G0 00-000 bi0 121 Algeria, Army of Occupation in.....+..+s Sie aertetares SOIC I COUIIOOD:D. 0.01000 Gi00.Q'GO 13 Algeria, Camel used in, by French.......5 Ghaldaletale) oj siatesa.sofefefate, aioleketeehelatets motets stels 113 Algeria, Camels sutfer from sting Of ANSE CE AN Se:corsfo;0'5) a lavosieiehsetostetsreye SOG bi 5 bictko 120 Algeria, Dromedaries should be brought from....++s.seesees > dos dugtonononnabo 422 Algeria, Performance of Camelsinesaccsncascanssens aevovestcvers Seislas’s S,are PRA ee 105 Algiers, Winter too severe for Arabian Camel....... Walenteto sel sere o's: oeerel ais ernst : 118 Alkalies in Cases of Serpent Bite... .ccssccccccvcccccscrcccccsscevcrcceccvesece 132 Alleghany Black Snakes boc: o's0 de 0:0 slate w aia ja eyertoeyuid suakeltteve oe os 06 ele Neee se 44 Alleviation of feelings of hostility between Dutch and English.............6 ete 175 Alligators. . diets saya Soyo \aahavatavene eer svece 3 ROG T SN Sie oe ao bala a Date ate ele feats 39 Aloe, said not to he eelied by the Camel..... Sfectaletelsrecve’s © oss) sioteresks shell dale ctetote 108 (Mlosa Miattowacas <.é scc2esisererele nies tele s eetele HS eRe cctate ehal sw ioce's laine ioteoeeletateamotelete 349 Alosa menhaden (Moss Bonker, Bony Fish, Hard Head) ...+eeceeccccecceeeceeees 347 Alosa: Teres:stats «+s. 6 es do dSid wicareiwia ol cntateta Dlaateretereteaterere o ceverevoveteniete ahavermatetecteole tere 349 Alphabetical list of Meteorological Observers...cessscecccscecccscctccccrestsccs 51 Alps... ase aaialbisioe soo aldidite' cisve dtvolete ctletslorestaletate’ co cin. clejlasiels wlelevioiclente cleleletsial'ess 274 Alum used for Serpent Poison....... Sieh slote ele eietchatelete a oie'e\cotelele ste stotereats BO DCOUORO 133 Alvord, Major B., memoir by, on Tangencies of Circles and Spheres.........+4-13 AMaZON. .osccsccccccscerescccscccres dvalanValdieie\seVevele's elera cloalelellel See mlelaictectelerctetarele 127 Amazon Valley, Exploration 0f......s:seeeeseeeeeeee astafevsievs vee ce eecrcvececes 93 Amboyna, Massacre of English Traders at...++eessesseeeeee sreiesvavs enlejetetetentolevcie’s 175 Amblystoma luridum (salamander) ..esseeeseeeeerecerecevencctsessesreceeneess 295 Amblystoma opacum ..seseeeeececececsseccctrccecsscvcssccvasscseessssssses 40,204 Ambroise Paré, the most distinguished surgeon of the 16th century.......eeeeees 123
American Academy, Appleton Bequest to..sssssesccenccceneereuevertossecueese 18

<<<Page: 680>>>

Page. American Academy of Arts and Sciences ......csecsccsseccccrecccssccccnecees 35 American Antiquities, Account of History 0f.......csscsssesccevecssesceccccces 10 American Antiquities, History of, by S. F. Haven.........ccccssecscesececerees 11 American Association for the Advancement of Education, meeting of...........6. 28 American Association for the Advancement of Science, meeting of............... 28,35 American Astronomers; LLIUMphss Ofte oi sjerese seicecise ssi eve sce vices ses cesses 0 145 American Colonization Society ....ccssccescesctccsccesceccescees slereieteneieatsicherare 94 American Ethnological Society ........ceesccccsvceccesccsrecenesececcceseccne 35 American Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Lecture 0n ...cccsccccccccscaccrecccescccsce ; 147 American Fuc’Company: i... ..levelele co ele ee ccoiessicriesacisises tics sccevecorserecse 81 America =INStItOtes. (so serciersielsuyatelavees's 6 se'ele e)s\ sole e teves'e's feta hetetatevostopercteteletercieisteleye 35 American Institutions, Packages sent from........... atelesvaie stolaesatele voters eretcee! 6's 35 Anaenl Cant OuUntia Of SCLEMCEN ea! ctelalsler ove w)e\sefo'w'elwlasioietelelelalelcrele clelte ele/eteloeleieicie execs 35 American Method of Recording Astronomical Observations. ......cececseeceeeece 145 America, not'an Englishman in, in 1664 .....ccccccccccsccscccccseccscoscscces 164 Americarip Orientals SOCIE LY, aha elec 4s:ele' sieve le’eese elele'eje\s ale ala) dee ale) <)en (ele slo secre 6:6 alelevere 35 AmMericanehhilosophical: SOCIEBY 1's os' vicicies:c.cre cialis o1cloreleresiale/sevielssiaelele seisiciess cs SOO MoU American Societies, Packages for ......sccececcecers arehe Hotetoior vce fol alotetenfarete ctetel ole 35 American! State Paper; the Oldest .. (cs c\rces ccsccenes cenccnscasscenccssesesces 159 PANTIES PACH, codetsste ate erasie)sintevaatey aVoxatas’e'e: cfelanvelatetelarvelate eles) cycle cias’e re/ejaiciave eayates sie ey ere 89 Ammonia favors Action of Serpent Poison: sieisisscicieccisssccne see esseceacrecece 132 Amount expended On Library o'.\. oie sie. elses else cles oviescceceercceascseseresesves 22 Nriairae Mela teatinOlccrsretererevtatsvore tt clavelctere sie cVelsnotaineysteralers, ctohatelsi oietec ts chastise lero eeierete Q77 Analogy between Municipal Telegraph and Nervous Organization of Individual... 153 PATTON SISHOLM AUT) sctetetoretreteve a.chetesorie, ee ele alle le avosoYer stele leies, steiraforeetevereiel ee ofefeieteraieieie: steforelote 182 Amalysis! Of VWGOLaT a's oines/s\cicielesi oles e\carieseininisie vse cs eeeeicie nies os clviesieceewves ces Lot loo Anatomy; of the Camelia. leases cele soe ec cevecccevscesensscavcecesecasesevess c's L0d,106 UNTNCH OVA arateroinors ofeicvele(ssie\ojeyelsiele, slice ele/eteite ejse/efasle'elalviesele-eieivs etevereieie’s ctsivs/e/os'ss/0's'0 347 PRUICIOV CP ELUVADIIG WASEis: c.e!slel eres svolelevesleleleelelelateielaielelee ts cselatels fotatacte, sferetes vei 'eretie aterere 39 PANTING OLSOMR VeRO tel svatecvaie. 6.02 lorsialvvarevelovastereveleilesvereieratante ete leiaste fale cl tee elofelceiste atcereite 43 PAUIG OR Mere eretetctelsjec/sisic elas \s bielevseie/elereleuicleve cienieieie'stes 6 stetereu(ave stelstisrereic’e’s sistas Be OU oo limeilics ANGE WS er enO lap aniyala sine ccc aicielcleles taveteveccalalere alatetevelasvatelackerclosteistcharcure ah eaten etenelere 42 Anemometer..... OR SEE Cea reforaios sve oho “safe aroratonslars’ sValedeboielaielersloleseictecctersei ere! eieveloisseie, Vere 219 Anglo-Saxon, Pitlemot expressive. ocic's.cce'e versie sisiee esseesies se csciccs cetse veils 157 AUC A LEMUANOSEUISM Mer aac aor ais cierss's aes ie eevee e stelle laine wisielerelet ere veiele'cs's peso 350 Animalsvexempted fromm Climatic: Liawss <6 .' isierelstdcietersis’s oislolelel ee sie'e alse ateiterns|otels 100 Animals, Bxistence’of, perpetuated by Mam’. sic cece ss cis cs cecdce ct eceeescsclsleee 99 Animal Substances enter into Composition of Woorara ......cccecsecscecereeece 128 EMMIINPAT DOT) tot efartaretet ales shatsteteertsren a's w''s o\s a/eoleiels|sceletoreveeieleiciesisieei si e's = eae otctoreisterestere’s 87 Annalsiand’ Magazine:of Natural History: ..c/cie.jocre eens ob coo ols ele ts celvicisjo cet « 127 Annales de Chimie, Analysis of Woorara in........---.b foissevanvers tolotenstetctetesie oleate 127 Annual Report of Secretary presented...... Vocleraseteisierels afelcletelaleferetactetayeleisle s\e\e'ee +e 77 Answer to Difficulties in the way of Introducing the Camel............eseeeeeees 121 Amiel opesselt] OCkxofi1 20s} hat AMR Nat ie oe oie chs a/eisiaralals bevebmartoree oN e ne coe ele ag 298 Antidote to Poisons....... BASSO 0.00 COM CERTIORARI OAC OOK Biatolevatale/a'e ce ee \cteleiere 135 Antidote to Venom of Rattlesnake hitherto unknown....ccsseeccsccccerecenees 131 MMEUGIOG Hv ali ei Dated daia a hat atctass nha CAP aaa Se Tas 's3 hala See ea Cees la sv 's do's wife alate sere 111 SMITH AT AMM SOCIE Lyi sere lchaatsc(chehe tet aat ala iaialc’ NclcbalerAu we ghoaet cvelebalesis o's e ealelelelerers’s’ ole 35 PUTTS Petatel ces s)'s x erevts whet slesiotalahardomteniaaravoieicisclatatate lM ciatalaty ts te tb obs salen earns «o's 198 Atiguistiese wiley 'sccestetaheth SI MMMMM BOS ay Pah ietatae abba les Fo ok ob aD ETRY DON SOs
MANIEISEL) HD DE Rr fatal <%tele\slaloctotetelcicele memento A aice babletca Caen cas cd sedis olen erence 84

<<<Page: 681>>>

Antiseptic Properties of Iodine.......... joie, e//osejeiaatelplielaiaalenelese's sels) seiels she) b)eiiahee 135 AAmton, ,CHiGO.jeje; 5/eiceyejeresichens HOS D SUD AOC seca cece ceases seeccsecrssccrescessoes 83,300 Antonio de Otermin+...... rete atal siviessisisver are 0 sj09\e\sle wieeie se lois the Sele sais syelois ese 312 Aoonakkara’ TIVEL. .' seccres,ciiaisiels,e.0 a aneioge essays w/s\e e/s snisie\o,0 sietelaicess ROO TOO TOO CIO OF 83 Apache Indians ...... speientele Simi s wher 0,56;0.0"snja ols. eyelsislerotointer¥atatele slots iaieicvsljelstetolsisrerets 296 APN TEAOMETUS Ha yanwUspectatalejs <o:010lers)seisieie 5700 /ereyoieieeleisjaieleolelefelelesielolers celsfeleicleisiectatele 326, Apparatus by which Serpent inflicts a Wound.......... siete! sterehe siofelels FOOOTOG eoee 124,125 Apparatus, Cabinet of, collected........eee0s syalataterers stele wei ejsslolsleleieye\ele as ofo\sioioys oe 9 euppenidix Ron Win: Aetissell Ss LectUres.s:sisieis'ssers.sdiejejolupduysiorist ata seis aboot Niele casts Sarai 215 Appendix to the Report of the Regents.........ccccssssccencecces BOOS FOR AOOO MD 79 Appendix to the Report of the Secretary .......... Gavel s/ef'e’e) “ies siajstshsheletcfelays sls) scheters 31
Appleton Bequest ..... spore vofeitra ehenteioioiades cyerereleoiete atotelexslare.a ao eleleis les BUGEOSO 3 D680 13 Appleton, D., & Co......... ehace les foloielesiefahei steal eers sinje(o¥elels 0 foreteiadeieototetiteraters Bjeie feic 96
Apple-trees at Manzana........0..ssesen BOO CHOD OUTDO IOC CODOGACOD CS OcoOnO Lic 303 Appropriation by Congress for Explorations... ....ssecesecesecs savshotets ovelsts slera)ctaln 89 Appropriation by Congress to introduce, Camels... sic. s:1 a0 «s,s 0'00,0,01 690,00 0 va\sie vie. 121 Appropriationsifor Wo ojre «(smite sioteie/ sls die's/s0 tor ahatel Telesis eyo fofela’’s \aatedotepele olelele} selon, s(eis\e. 68 Aqueduct at Gran Quivira ............. aVarelosectelslefohacts\ela talc cela Ka lasbe cistelelsieiciste’s 309 Aqua Ammonia applied to Cases of Serpent Bite....... Deteleisciior ayefeve'elease| fo eleioreie 132 Arabian Camel, Information respecting Military Qualities and Hygiene of........ 121 Asabian yD) rome dani esis ivercopereysiejas/e/s'eiess0e s)esee.o: efeienra ale elesta(aiceiosle see wiecaielenteseilesshcre 110 Arabian Poem older than Mohammed..............0+ Siclereialastonareieys my siaie/a/siolela <inuaieie 104 Arabia, Whirlwinds in....... i che lantclaterslecvete/sielecte aiavaie vs oie efee, daLeeig chara aia).o te) aa oy alee ai 187 Axab, has remaimed:imimutablessys,3:. cier0;6;, 015.0, «;sspayeve.a eeicie¢,0,00. ote loree ace & ajalefe eral eseyeiets 101 Arab, opinion of, respecting origin of Camel..........6.% S oieieaieus ane aie ere tishe smveietore 114 Avadsihabitually travel. by mightz teat. otcislse ss s/c. 'slancc oletates 6c ae cia o'er ines am 115 Arab’s regard for Dromedary and Horse ...........4. ve ececece a(e0, a0 ejoeteregetns\ais < 115 Arabia Petra, Ascent of Caravan it .oscecscece sie csse ceases eaeisiefevevesielerrerstelerets 105 Arabia Petrea, Journey in.......... b9idio slntanie,elo(elemeteldje’ se) « cle’ coie’eeletantetrenteretelels 107 Ar aTisas: oc. creovdyecevevesoreentere aielaSeadinMisiave eereibtestaleveieleswiavore evict oie selerdimeeceraciotcae se <i3\09._ eG ARECHI CUB XPEOIHLOM aac 0,0) w/e'sinlo,oles1c/e,sinlalclanie e@s'le Sieieel sis's Sieeio.eusie modo SH OMOROBOOS . 91 Argentine Confederation............6. sisi asiva/oleima chs (oislelelselefelelereritieceleie oaks elesusiets 90 Argyreiosus capillaris (Hair Hina P01) arelojoiciats aieeleisielacts Micleyecicie\s ales.0;ci8 v/erielaielels 337 Aridity, of Meditertaneam SHOress ccs sise:0/0's erevia vcjalenis sielelsnata.e 000/010 «,0,00, 10 salsieieieie 189 PEIBLOUG » sais slanisinialareis'ass <0 «nin ales @ = 0\c nie siale.waclalajereriovelale Nain wie's «s:ae\ s\n aanauaeliamane 182 Aristotle, Passage of, scintioes Camel] ..vccceccccrrccccnsicccsccsecee ae © 000s 00 102 Agrkansasies s.xicrecholarsteitders FAD BOGE COD 0-000 0.0 CN Ore aaa atejey craletaforg was ligyan
Arkansas, Fall of Rain at, Pies 1850s) -seleis eer site ciewe dss cc eres ceenene sees 244 Arkansas River....... SACRO OI IO ETO TOD C Mpeiete sitesi aisle Re er aot te 3), SoSeD Army of 15,000 men transported solely by Camels....++....0++ Sisies 0) shalvecpasfeleyavers 119 PrmBcrononmecObert <s. s*ssleils eras se <'sidnic'e\e'e esas eloemiaitanas chlo 6 sidia,dc. cues en acetate Saat On.
Arnold, quotation from, on Centralization and Active Life...... NOOO DO ROOD UdOT: 160 Arrangement of Smithsonian Building ........ccceeeeeees oisisloveyesys = are/starorefoieies«(e 70 Arroyo de la, Cienega, . .6:00osis6 aes ecss diesels sisleisieieisnys 9 00\0.6. 0 sive aisceninre o Sjaessyehaiols s1° 304 Arsenic used for Serpent Bite..........20. soldieie tele’) are 60. s.slee accote meen miata sheletee.e 131 Artesian Borings .........apices sje siete Meira is: 3/osnnan REAR Spree a ate 85 BSCONGION: «, «a iereacisteitoedelosis bo 0.8 59.5008 BOSC o COO LE EEIEE ne ORacs are clevateteientel sie 90 Ashinead;\'\ Charles) cisteteaseies\s'ave «6 fn Sreleterautsiotersievisrs 6 eve visie oe pseserel ote stesauckartoienletesse im iy Ashmead), Charles! MMhamssitO. <!iec wesc ee sise eevee 0s 0 s.c0.hee Shiccs sieatarate paretelpiastevs\s 317 Ashmead, Samuel, Thanks to...........00+ Sateicusvicieie 6 cee Sielacedetektserets Btents,<'s,eh 314
Ashmead, Samuel; SeaWeeds found! Dyes co sic.0 oo soe ss alas a seme apieeas ries eas 319

<<<Page: 682>>>

Page. Ash, Wonderful Properties of........-..Reimaioistelsiste Bot AoC Sins) 5 efenle/eheseieste/elslere 133 Asia Minor ..... ty Hela letciaketer< Wreleioia lac (sieinaje}alese\a's,1016 .0\s).0r=)° aiokevsvereni'siccsiatsnataretetsstereteleieke 111 Asiatics,, Use made of Camel in War by ......... ateseieistisisiens 4 c(oisiare seoualovelelceielt= 118 Association of Medical Superintendents of Hospitals for the Insane, meeting of.... 28 IESE CIS sles s eer clenis atelelantete evellen oles nlesiajoles 2-0 s's\elejenie.e's letayeteveelc sire siavoiere,Slerevens ehetele 39 Asteroids all of diminutive Size... ..es eee cess eee eecrece AOC RUG ORE OG.OC 143 Asteroids, Discovery Of.......+sereeseesees ative shale. a\(s) gn oe%e) aa's sel sineve Sone sem "138, 139 Asteroid Orbits distinguished from all others. ..eereeeeeeeesetreeeetreseecrecees 144 Asteroids, Relationship between 2... cesses ecse seer cece eter ereeceseece aVccherete a ib 143 Asteroids, Causeiof .. os.00 oss «046 AS tevalaw totes elev RRA e CCCI HOUR TOI Coe 141 Astraca, Orbit of......... Merch Syeraiaksleve aussi oval evel sieishoren eveters tS paid ayatelovah orotate a feioyaye [5y5, 0/2. 141, 144 Astronomers, Association of, to discover Planet......-.. SAS ACROICOD shave selon ADDeGeO 137 Astrology, Doctrines of, respecting Poisons...... aps Bade ue, wiece stays iokslete: okey sloyelalesss saves 128 Astronomical Discoveries in America..... aie iciavers eieferais aterel esta sleresai@uelocarezeinys Woe edae 145 Astronomical Expedition to Chile.......--e50. cole verepetectaets Seles sayeieysyeuse eieseieheers sierele 96 Astronomical Journal....... siolaapei stuedstereiereseiets: sleerarese 5sleyey04s0 /ace)ers'le'oje)eis\s\'e ies ei e)e, ahs 35 Astronomical Journals, only two in existence......2.--seeeereeee a ohevalorsiainicieisieyetee 18 Astronomical Journal, Observations of Eclipse published in. ......ereeeeereeeees ‘ 17 Astronomical Positions of Mexican States incorrect ....eessse eee eeeeee niciatesejsioieyers 279 UNilatemmlate SANGO OTTO TOO Se OCOr Bde Bre tepeter 2c ej siajoyejausiolel ois sare olay ey eierete leie1e ols 319 Rerigninstac notatus (Silverside, SandSimelt) . silsvalejatuetans oie seseyeleiorae-shelcaysye siciaa)cieiefers 338 Atlanta: Classic; Mablesofijeic:s ieicccis cc's wiosie dle 00.0 a S0\s\m e000 sie 0is ois ex 010, 8\0)p viniewonte.e» y13l Atlantic and Pacific Junction Company. ...-eeeesseeens RO soSbosado Oe mavejeeieieure 93 Atlantic Ocean, Depths of..........00+ SiCeTO OD OOO UOUN SC Cone syokeis Suayesienste Syelsvetas 91 Atmospheric Currents........... Revo) Sislevesielene sieeie/ she aces e/feksialelesssia sie Wercy eysasia selene, sis 190 Atmospheric Pressure at Greenwich......sceceesceure yor ecuasurlsressts LOO CDE 218 Atmospheric Pressure at Philadelphia.......eeeeeseeeeees sclopareieselateysteejsiere eysjetetahs 222 PURIROBDHOLE) 1 PTERSLIG 1OL: sales. oss ciulgis\nin\alo,ssjeieisia a ai0ias) lieve! oni :ninse opie! S'si6'alo.0'¢ 49i8i6 615% 182 MipimicConstitution of, Mixed Gasess..s < oc9.cs/s0.0.s,0/0.0in/0 sist en 00,s\siceitiend seueeisiesic 193 Atwater’s Researches..... sist clovelogsiet preteisiehevelsiese\ehesiers acl scieislsleseljsivie’s sisters layoiasVejersiols 11 Aaduboval eine esis c6's'e,00.6 «08 Avotelouafasaiseve elersioisistenelaicieleisisveleteluelepenrsiele isle obs cisveie oeieiers 347 Atipuste;, Tension, Tables Of... » ..c.s.c0.c esis oe 0.0 seiersts tere, 0jc0/e.s s\eiswve\e 6 eles, 0 010,010 0.010 sie: 267 Aulick, Com. J..... Bie Velet svensisiic suelo cle cru. oeusiehcicicnl sonerorelshoteiae iene arelaiatatssis suc lexsatoreieis eters 39, 42 Auriferous Deposits of Vermont ........+.. eiofelateaciaietseeterisets Bera shersis Re uoo a obs 233 Aurora Boreal Coruscations.....-.....06. aie seisiayetaiNete Rycleisoielsieieiciueiaveokeveitve losis icrelele 227 Aurora Borealis, Explanations of.......... sidlishstatesiato ele ee Cowles sre eisinelon a dleustopsietere 13 Aurora Borealis, History of Exhibitions of ............6Rockdc seiels oieta d clelosieysieie\s 12 Aurora Borealis, Memoir on, by Prof. D. Olmsted .....-cseceecseccccccccceececs 12 Aurora Borealis, Notices of, by Peter Force... ...eeeceecceeccececccecccccecses 13 Wororamotiscen!at Samy Hirani cisco o,5.0.0:</<.,0/s,0:5 !ays/s/a\syersyeloies ciate. odioe Sa\aleisiaieisfepres «2003, LID Austin, Joseph B...... al evapebehe Novella evde.euev's oeeveyapayeresie,sietana asa a elo Vanvouelon stokenevetereTonehorsia.o.s)'s 38, 42 HAVRE SL) Ii 's 5!sieca lols, oie, ssRalelie clsteaMisctalatcaiais.0. «iss sj6)'sie Aishai aisle vos, cepetakolev oaks Moeiebse serisieiaye:s 342 AZO WAY S@ay Ole s\s).s; ave s-0 aeinjeie afarelers Bios etaceieisaie!oaN6 Bia! Sih alie shatavsiolovele ey tebeloinyey cists alte eieretels 122 Aztecs, Suppositions respecting..........02.06. ecesln olekeicisieleteisteleeieisye 4) Sie nlsesalefers . 311 Bache, Professor A. D., Commission on Building Material.,.........-.+¢+ eisreleisie 18 Bache, Professor, Observations by ........... Skies Noa ohobi vane stevie nuers a'sv'erelieies.0 oie Selererete 215 Bache, Professor, Proposition by, relative to Bibliography. ..........+++ issjeeje lee eters 22 Bache, Professor A. D....... eke Selo iofcivcs Fie 016: atic CHA TNe cateis ne Gis win: bios (alow ietapalee see OME Bactrian Camel, obtained at Odessa ..... a iokerauelshe sleteleyo¥eavesens Somor onan Maco cioheys 122
Bactrian Camel, Superior for Transportation ........seeeeeeees Susja@loresieieisse¥eleteiate 11Z

<<<Page: 683>>>

Page. Baffin’s Bay ..ccscccccsccccssevccroccnensecssccsccsaccsssssscescccs ee seseeee 92 Bagdad to Damascus, Mails carried by Dromedary from, in seven days ...+++++0s Ill Baird, Mr., Encampment near Residence Of. ...esseeesee cece ee cerecrecccvereens 296 Baird Sale «dc/aeiersiaissteiasatstestete's else siece\e Savers lelens' ater were aide taietcele + Biorscieicratetaniszaisiote 88 Barras S (hy ts. \e'tweiejstesseretons Dstsavedia ci shelesle EA ea Ae eh nv avalestotene 16; 31, 38, 42, 79, 87, 94, 317 Balloon Ascent by John Wise......sseeecetecceececccsevencctenessccccesseces 224 Balloon Ascent by Mr. Walsh....... ASO. Be rateMe Mite a ate ta oyah ete Svaysentere Rid ta ewe Hien 196 Banded Drum-Fish........ Ee eects Moe, Sava Mavetactate latecsersaretet BOC O CA Sieve leeverele 332 Banded sSUn= Wish retetes,o's.s «ein, cissaie eieleie eevelonsiens sidavetatectlers srastolers Ades 5 Riesiaid chil. 324 Baptist Mission, Kansas........ inv tsareicenaianore. ai aiaerararatalle diay ala (nieve scalelechatetercleietotterictete 86 Barkers Oris: VW ca ste ve gevesies esis Soba TMS acaeNeNS Pg Raor ai sctonesevaisisfexerensisusoltotale deel 38548 Barometer at Bombay.....e..eseeeee Slab Bis dae refahote etehatatetsv sh eicvaralelebahelayvatenslaverelepietele 220 Barometer, Cause of Fall in Tropical Storms....... slalesseelatere eo cece enecssecescs : 210 Barometer, Cause of Fluctuation. ......ceesceee Bre EN atortatone cistenselonevereininteternishatalte 204 Barometer, During Storm of 12th... cc. cess ee ce cease eevee rece cearneeeteceses ; 210 Barometer, Fluctuations of, from 7th to 16th November, 1854...........c008 207, 209, 210 Barometer, invention of 2.223% see s00t.4e wlcratreteteumevsioaahe Shevenieletete sickeys ACO OGL OS 182 Barometer, two Maxima and Minima of. ...ccc.eccccececrceses SEE Reve renseo tte haters 218 Barometer, Variations of .........4. Siete sets Lies ad Wate, Aetahelecreterareneciene FAB DOBOT 218 Barometrical Observations at Sacramento, California......... sidranaint's Hateeretaivensicberere 264 Barnacle, Growth and Ravages of, and Protection against.....es.seeseeeees sie stole OOS fLO Barnard, Major J.G........ Rnisiolenre svolelenisiereerrste Avsaise sarees asletelcicteeinrete Saeteee ufoosae Baron de Zach... cscs ese aie sate Bestia se Shas bra iSaisvetere vcs ale. telclerstareralonctetatahoval stehe 137 Barranca, IndvamiOHiets.cis sie ese ese eres tre. 8ie or aie a eniaie eueiee a eleletencs Slecelatetate sve steteretete 315 Bartlett, Jno. Russell . Dlatatercvorsie;s ola: Se MUBa Doraenyas Sealer Grel ain omattalsl ah ofete red iaisrataie 96 Bartlett, Professor, Photoir aie of Eclipse ae SCD OL Slbblaveiele ofa abeleres!t Chel etan\efatal ole 17 ATG; s LEVOVcIAt TO 2 cterelelars averse sincicrapticn tevcee aseien acvaretietete ts del aise woe sess el Os-olecdOsea nod Basrah. ..5/0)6 secs SCABIES chine AC eAEITIGG Ah bdrinaconoc 4 Avekia le tateloteeerehevaloretare 111 Bashee: Islands: aa’ ore 'sc «srecrocesea's 0.0 oberg cle a accatelce/s ai adtotorettals colelastavaroredelmtetneatareratate 89 Bassitot sBeaver Vslands. «ct aves secre sielesersren eave erecieiens ie wd sctetayeate Bhioipsto conor 287 Bass! Sun-Rish' cic cisjes ces acl state, cisvsenehers ase FAS AIRIA ROSCA Ge SO nid CORO U DUOC 325 Batrachus variegatus (Toad-Fish, Oyster-Fish) ...0.sccccecsccereccrecceues HOD Oe 340 Batoseagachic, Rich Mining Place.....-..... sled craleleleelohetetciels esiele s\sin1s'8 aie\<. secee 278 Batrachiai vss lstevresteressiace Mee etayeveietecersistere Me Art aca itaieeN else steve aieis' oial tore shagtateteraie 43 Battery Employed in Boston Fires. Alarm Telegraph... .....eccceere wie'e cole etetalentenata 154 Bayiol Wonterey:. sicerwiserere soi easkeraie vrs wisevets set aletetetacielere siettatetaisiais'ers oats Eiarekeloteiohetse 84 Bay of San Francisco. .........0¢ aetoloiontalsrereretete ayalel ota steteteteste’ ees sishe Taetavareetetar ele 2 242 Beale, Lieutenant E. F..........06 Sia lea ole v.cvare nce sicenetelate eke 2 ie eens teres See (BSE96 BEATiCree Kis jcre.s sora oie's'eec ara iotaniniererecare/eyerelec tere Bi isis ihc A ne RA Teor sateserete oc &8 Beaumont, Blie de.:..... e086 Unter evaie cree winre Sonicteeieheerelerse c 8 se saioiecorehel cD ea elete 274 Beaver Islands, Michigan, Natural History of........ Sieinisce or sieltielehenelttelaveietekerts erste 282 Beckwith, Lieutenant E. G........ STaeleretogre ise store imibioliec elo ee eloseiet ae a sie aie MEMO OR OD nO Beckwith si@atssiecisscs <sa0 aciearsterceicse uso clone Bienes ore Dears onetieueeate alesvavereretesretonetets 86 Bedouin Arab, the only Race that retains Original Mode of Life....-escecceseeces 101 Beesley’s Point, New Jersey. .........0+ Lg Watevaletiattiole se «0 eerste wales 16, 42, 43, 88, 317, 318 Bejaco, de: Wena cure satuicsise ss sccls es tsvercis ialeninetanteistes 0 ts ave aie eerateletel seinefavarete ar 127 Belcourt, Rev. 8. A., Dictionary of Chippewa Language by ......sccecccssccoees 14 Belfast ..... ayeer siaioresenate Bekele taidvoic iate/siere! «cess te BtenPoce Sede e eee soiigrel choles, erorevenars pibelever are 212 REL OMUirnnls evevee's s 'sisyorohetolctaventoreieiie: sieve esis eisielcierens isin tein! eas a,2 5) ore) euere) eledetever etenerete eearetay sve 39, 44

<<<Page: 684>>>

Page. Bell on City Halil, Boston, struck by Telegraphic Operator in New York...... NODC 150 Belone truncata (Bill-Fish, Sea-Pike, Silver Gar-fish)....eseecccssccceccceccesees 346 Beloochistan, Food of Camels ins. %/e's.20/ efactatolo lets cvetarsicleveresicuateets Beis este rbieiateleverete 108 BENICIA creole eae state CORON COODUCOL SOOSHOOGIOS Socudivociud doigoddndoa. de sidiecisleisteys 84 Benjamin, Park, Lectures by........se000sreecscecoes Sodio Sralaietete tenonieielers evel 28 Ben Moor Mountains ........ ASO aioioteataieieveiiavelevesieieveioiels’ sieieateve\'s le) sic ete siecrcievelele 276 IBETIME hes Viksaere tetereselvcie « tiewloctciee tiesiae eee crne Rea eerie ne conten ace Ractestote sie leravearsvere 30 93 iBentons W1eubs eee Gees 25h Sloe sieves elles 0 BOOB OOO HOON OODIG COTE OORT RUG 6 39, 43 Bergen, Norway, Temperature in .....,.eeesee0e SIR AAIND OOROIG COD RO CDIO stareetenece 195 Berghaus, Estimate of Number of Camels by.......eseeesceseees SHOP OOOR AOS E 118 Bergmann...... AOD Ae Hino SMe ase ANcao ddnatatee os A ARS GLniCO pe BOR LOS VA, Tes Berlandiers Mauss AGCOUMOL pore Gels etatereie tie) oad ate Suavaiaavel sieved oislieielee’ stevens sis tee cie.eie's 155/87 Berlandier Collection, Catalogue of ......csceccececeers SOIT Oe COR CCH Io 396 Berryman, Uhietts OP Ee ccs ele chestalcla'e's 9 e'esvele o's Sfoataiscor eieionelecre sacle ote Bfeeransiea siete 91 Berlin Almanac............ SCL ORO DIG TEIE Siaiate te siete. wie teehee nieve Mi Serenetaneteare evereterets 137 sFperituruml\Laryiseee re atatetste a aie ta tos aaicita ois sPefesiays wile cls fart. sytotatevebeleseitots oar tere sleisiorele'e « o,slots farsi 139, 140 Bermudas, to be Admitted into the Confederation .....eccsecccseccscscccecces svelte 174 Bernard, Mr., Opinions of, respecting Poisons.......... Restorer Srerierets Biba ics wisieieis 126 Berthoud eM) M we bie elk evel tteee cioniais © slugie al shove tubes wa dlevere woke. w aide Gibidln ace diotels Sahieee SOC aS SESS ATA LE: Ree ae ies ol cts ele re cata raise levers fais fePatale ove or'votezeiey's Tolsysisreysavave, aVallelsinvetne eyarclelsterers’s 111 Bessarabia, Age of Camel, in..........6. eave ovase totes sdienatnde gale BSUS OLLOER CRETE RO 4 113 Bessarabia, Camel abounds in..........0+ alaeisielesioretehavests RE SEE A yioteeste e siefeeverare He 101 Behring siS traits. /.ccietaeleielstsveleverevon sieterelere Wakav'e feteceteletatats etetohotat ate talteitotaass clots teleietel atte 79, 89, 96 Bibliographical Centre at the Institution..... sta tale eelehereiavatette ate wvotaers: siclsl stellsiershielstoheyate 22 Bibliography, Works on, collected ........00: SH Moleiolevalsevatalcieleatovenesialete ofeistetetstaictare 22 Brdwell?syBarsiinevsr.teiteveestereverereclevsle sie le Moitatetoniate A OAUAIITIAG OU COCO Gan ater rotsheitivel ete 86 Bigelow, Dr. J. M..... bi OMOG TOUOL Salfetoy’s a avalstalelnie aierieleveeveyetes ercletetele Mietole eeien COued Big PIOVELrs a sreretes oats lores Sistelete's eo'e sie afealeoneotavs tatote sfaleiaat ste aiotoistsfetsavs Mobufeicioietacieretstere 88 Big Porgee....... clietanisterelafe stotelalav eiere teres ave talielatoravta aNstoMs /aito Heferaieiestereres ie oavewlereraetelsre 333 Big Witchitiais <2... aictosiatetetete atalai@yeiletrievatacio laafoierstelerernalelia etevehretercshaveies B shaetetonetors 86 Billetons Passages siete o:cs + ovee)s rslered ie 0'e0e vile efoia\erbte sia ateie,slolates: ae Mave rleveicetetalncreleletete 90 SIMI SB Islas ic jovevelceyeteretoresicvelatevce aves aheierteleNeatareterelese to sioquaisehel vetetestetecs Seleteresctotaare (oral ete 346 Billy WilliamspshOr ks seis aieres-s:0ics ein efe'e aveielnverevoevefe aise a ayrcavareraveHesiaiets ateisro.ate tates ee B4 Biographer of the English Chief Justices... .0iccieee cies civics vive cis ceceiseescesoevece 161 SIS Reis cae aie aie tte leaperete teres ieee ore C MianslevorenaTaiteveloraitedetesssnareselterpete 5 43 Birdsror Beaver Wslamd stares. sieveise cisic eevee oeioleoloie seierie BOOT COA CROCCO CRI atoreloret 282 Birds vost Viinnesotaseterercstedtecs (avers s..0 s wictareie afaeicvaia levels vores alovalieteste Sevehenrs vatese torent 291 Birds, North American...... Kiolagdientow@il eaters sfaveiaVatandio avosarevave aarevhere sioheveratets assayhettons 42 Birds received......... BOAO nav sreles ove lalenelvaterearsiere arerayeveve faytataveitoxoialokeve¥auate wistestes's oe 37 Bard) SS Kins 0:5 ayeyaiesrs ove eves epavereve avs ale vavsielavaraspolaforetetexetate vers avaiechetaveveles BO Coston 46 Bitter Root River. )is,< dcvcters 5.0 DUG AEOO OD CD OE sive) avoye);c¥e\e(a\tasfolesatratenoreNeHeWelat era's ‘aiers 81 Bite.of. Serpents, Nature-andiGurre! Of ....1< selseseieins:oeitre le 0166 eveiovaietcloveleve ctiswidersieie ete 123 BURG MB SES: jaieie wildedsiciesialevotes anche eters oie so ers aie'eislerl evovesValatevores srafavalsrellsyeres eyo Sldsralesevene 323 Black Bass of the Ohio, Habits of ......... al esd Siraleaah shreisc\/e\ avayleneW MIR Ie teal atianio Covataheteve ciatiote 289 Black Fish..... asia aystian.cile avclevaneeorsvetetosss a,c aila'sle-alle ola tafiauleteveretarstcerbarctatelettele eltaliate: cishovatetelle 340 Blackfoot Pass...... Sreete Nieves ern rete ovoro vols ieve ‘otsllsjialnssliaversvenamperenss ae Gaia) cs vele resco tarehavotors ; 81, 82 Blac ktootyRi vier sc sists ite bles ityatailatele atereile tele si'sv' eat sis /oiaheere! ove iarelah ares evre, 3/';aV'siah waotaterastoreltele 81 Blackman, Washington, Thanks to ....... Sieialicteyel afew eieyatioveuls veressieieve lala) slelevaleelisterstions 318 Black Miassassa ua: «s:slallatis svrevenebttelsl osleleietelaniovercohestavalajavetatore! a0 isl ejsle) cvolialetshelaeiatlelarate 38 Blakes Wi iarr PH saietelelatc Weelae apatites tonniaebaieveia le lalets leva\culere tarerecielallactevevajeletete Stet 84
Blank Forms for Meteorological Observations, &c., furnished .......0.sees eees 20

<<<Page: 685>>>

Page. Blodget, Lorin, Report of Executive Committee relative to,....sceeeereeeres ae 74 Blodget, Lorin, Communication and) Bill Mfromera. o<,cjetdjere oyewteleiaste « <boiais.afeiet's ieisloseieie 17
Blood: GIODUILES. sisissscie, scsoseesicretereieace aja) oteieualstsicisisyeteneievaictere eepateleihas saiteyats aydeeretele ao 129 BO MBNISH nove sicteet scorer torere opener ele Pera iciSiwss (oe, eed aorcrels aveieieyatenteere Siaitei'e Sis oleiecoiesotetexereus 329
BAUCUS DATs salexe tais's os cteoualcheprevereleiedse\s.s «0/e siatlecslcels ais o(avucyeleieielekaisgsekes siaje,scheloieistonete 352 Board of Regents, Proceedings of...........a)s.os serail enieietele|(velaretotel s/s axexslo| eva isiozs oe 72 Bloderas California ajetarconeyeicrs ais 4.0.00 -<:0:0'oise'e.0 ¥iclse dniajaiaidred 5/0 sieistanessteislahe BAC OOUUT ¢ 45
Boder Professors ua wsOls:< svete. s:0.0:4's)sisoses aro/acee,o: sbelevebntell feisina aucions, Sartore Neots eeioks 137 Boss Wis tbe clelaretetacs’s @ias.o.«,c0.giecie iene wielenies aierevelelaisieccepejeys BCI OF mnlats cask svcleners 89 Bookham wos sciee » 0s eeaeiss\ers AIO CAO OSOA DORON 6 OtOe BC OToOCa Torn ou doco ajateis 114
Bokhara, Camel used for Military Purposes in......ssscececsccccesecs BOCODOUOC 118 Boleosoma fusiforme (Darter) ........ wie ereelorarsiels aratatajateetssaieys «(stele s ensrojejetslereuieralgyei« 328 Batson de Wa pil... 06 as:0 sare <n,e-aeusieies seis, ssialelojesiolevelele sfepetaverclopateseiens He diers eojele) emetilaweri Bombay, Meteorological Tables.for, «os siss/ieise dass ciaine deja siersieies.aertaeuats ++ 215, 219, 220 Boneset, used for Serpent Poison ........e0e0 Sidayeierdctavele ha Siteteakieesis eee ejevretoheteas 133 Bary Bish sos, sareya are oepgcere: seteiojaicials stels isnvafalasala.sfolelsinekelsichslatiwlessteveve/sfe crevelels (aici olepels 347 Booghdee, the cross between Bactrian and Arabian Camel....... SHORE TODO Ooo Te 103 Books read. in the: Smithsonian Library, éis:0;cis-s:aapteqsheisle sueoubfoinalei nen traborseciatree ere 21 Boon le AVE Sse sersressa.o.cigsdisdacee stot eocon horse. eliahei ats, ia bys shajatsyaiesyo:aeverense fetelelaseshels 88 Bo potalas SHAG ei sz aeseis sas, opci ve cys allsccarere o/ nieve ota avesavcier oicie tieis ae bees S ckarmts taehwefotekcuone 93 Bonoia:, Name of,, infamous «5 :0%nie o00:0/04 0,0 secs en Sie aiaisieyeie, otsleisiereuashelogslehotekecwsleieie,s 159 Bossange, Hector, Distribution of Matter by ........e.-e00% oeeeeerscenes Siejeelsiee 32 IBOStOM: savsie so 6e.0/.0 aiiea chee stonkacs siayetes sie Poi ebsites Corfe gaits Goronnscclskeusie creseteelevencetateriate 35, 36 Boston, Appropriation from, for reese Sialevelpsers crogopntdsotone she wiisiae.3) 5) ofenshotne Siete 151 Boston, Fire-Alarm Telegraph introduced into... ..ssccercecesssccetsecseuvccccs 150 Boston, Visits of Dickinson and Reed to......seecsscecceses Sia tad sia istelcaiereeosetet 169 Bostan Society, of, Natural History: «:< seiaea 0,008 se as 0:0 p's haven « sateen eracneetoene 35 Botanie Garden) 6 sisiey iesjeje,0c0,00 ola: > meteielashs sie/0\eieiave ie aiprpie7s\sej'e.e 0/0)80 16) eho@isshareisiniarelaiele 35 Borany Bay. of New Mexico, «5 so:0:0\0-0% sree eerasepued 8 ee,s jose 0 \ele/eatelaipicieaioistotone 316 Boundary Survey of United States and Mexico......scccccecccascscvcsnceraces . 80 Boarbon County, Kentucky... ais.csase0ne ¢004-04ppisig'sees 2 <,3(e \esinieie!sieiaie/s]sieie «:c0s¥elerete 43 Baassinvault, Anglysisio€ Wookard yi 00 inan's wasps p eoedieseedaes oc ssdwinse 127
Bowditch Library)... .<+ 4s: 6.0< sieinissisiesielia ofsinsjeie.< o 89,6 0 eelasieieles 62 es.0 © eie ees vision 35 Bowman, J: Soule vosieaces sea syonscebec ce aiaios ie omrahoeioce tee ekelekoo! terse SDTOD oon COL 38, 43, 86 BGwinatiggSs Miia ciinstg.ccmaialadicisseisoe atinne s sejelarojeveseeholel fave, ekelnts) ave'e 9, g/ese)e)cetetete els 86 Brainard, Dr. David, Tees fe a sferale aisieajnidieis wleieveialaysie siaishelsshelersie eesaie (eilofelafe:ofatehebels 123
Param on, VienmO itis ce dav 0/0 alas, anh aieiiieid vinalarela Gecietdieriataiale aafelsienaie'e aad Gren 39 PST Zils ehateys yeiocays(ots (atayeehareke trevexeeis satay sisuaionols’cterekelerereke sioetectels Bio iaie ie'o eee iaretetetsteteyes ers 38 IBTaZ08\4sisy00.010,0, « idiapejects Se TOSCO POO RCTS eis yobs arehvatieten ciel avabieieyamianteeiats soled tAGiS> Brazos, Exploration of the...... ahaloieayersiajatereus of eicioie Sfateseverere sisal s'alclevoanets aiaeala eis 86
KEV OOK yD, Carsonics «:. 0.0 core siajeyais cievenisleuels gore pote igefolslantsie.ea © oie :0.08 o16(s,o 1s OM OO Mode Brevoort, C5\ Cross Yow o:6 b0.0ie,oefe ca. Nabarceencerayevaate Stefestore afiara/s jolelaccvee semabhiows eicterels 43 Brewer, DraToMeije.00 20: aicnediekoleressefeieieioereele Siccpapabepeinis ays" t.0\s piepouspasacabienekeeiete 2100009/42).48) Brewster, Sir Davie xjojoj0.+ 20,0 9180/04, c0:aeinainia as sfepetavetetisye ele ie aie abikels ccete safer cieletats 181 Heda, resi of Munem eg OL 6.5 s:0,01c-0\e siavaiale ware Raineeaepatars p's 4) seisie\sjelaloie/atelnapote AD ECOL 175 Binders, ir Ds Uist ci erep avatars (osc Gifsie) oveie's, aieliai's oreliayeletebeveevoiahesveve's susarahe a6.0sie alee aleve tomes Cetoo seas
Bridoewater,..V Crmionty<rastetereiies svsro:acei sieioyate aaraveneove eyeperis s'e)'a) shiaire-taayercleaypicteier etal eof Reemeiote 39 Bristol, Vessels from.......s. ds si's} Sihnjejfabsk aides e ca ecelleyed ote isc e\e: 4:0 15) SNS alotes ay syeTeustbereeeokersns 159 British Association for the Advancement of SLLCNCE sree, a, 6 cbiesate ekaialaks reingeyay a Sienieremiors 188 British Association, commendation of Astronomical Journal by.........seeeeeees 18
British Practitionens’ wsecof, ASEM Gi cis Yeo: 0i2lsvehetenie. o's eteoee lolol exer lereomalebeveletyetetos sete 131

<<<Page: 686>>>

Page.
British Provinces, Efforts to obtain co-operation of, with the Thirteen Colonies .... 172, 173 British Rule repugnant to Dutch .....e..eeeeseeees ate) $s yeiciepe) slater cae Sielawseleitetelel« 175 Brooke, lutemt sas pls yetstets ayers «:eve.a:cveusineye wists anaahojeisyetocele) sVora sy thasareievelen sieve dirs) epsucteaialode 89 Broolc] yans Nie wav OTe ra, oys)sva\< (a/5i/o\byojohosohests erevstachese ehe/teneie oisiidyisy@)e/' sa/\shejecsisiavey eis sweets, sD oN Brown ‘CoailiBedsiots Vermont: ors aim die:d:shsts.sxepacdierelore oyoseuns <ereejare.« pists geyetew ans ae ois, 89 V4S Brownsvilles.ctisaiseieese se RRO CORS GS KaICOe salaite ici ctersieotarsionsrenoepslatoee laa kage iounters 86 Brussels pela 36,0 :s\s.00,5,2ie,eisore,0)610'esyorsie AEEE AS Matersc Byendin sa nisvelsbevesboubyicie: s3ia/ ele taioe seh ode vole  ore susiel site's Siete¥e staladacey'aseseiatetec 39, 43 Bur clhatdibssevejerelsysrejoe sasisssye Rod nO eilescpee afofaraile aleiepe ebeisilolc) Vs} sveliayss sie ierel stay e.eieloreierais 111 Buenos AyTesisa,.o:ersie06:s sjetsyoastevsle sisi cfalehejsiercishate oles cfereresleroeimianlolotesvefeleisisilaiciieinis © 90 Building, Amount expended on .......0-.eeeseeeee ih anavatneteke BS BIE.C GO CD CET oa EIe 70 Building; cause.of. Delay, mcompleting .., ¢:. 4; 0:6: s/isies «> 4 a's ge erejneiaiele'< lifes else, 01 27 Building Committee, Authority to use Punds on deposit.....sceccecesssceeeerees 76 Building Committee, Report of.........seeeeees AUTO OOS sioysfelisin ole oateraialer aerators 69 Building Committee, Jno. T. Towers elected to........ AOMOOE elke sua a jake syeketemise ‘ 76 Building, Description of........... Epistle hapo:.ateroce Netter o ones Sueieheadnish alle soles oneersoin ae(apaxe stolons BibT ius) Building Materials collected in Europe ........+-sio, Wiereistelelon si cvs wialeniate oe teceeee 44 Building Materials, Commission on...... ote wife av evate{ore}als, aseseinne’ sasfehalaotetetstererelessexe% as 18 Building Material, Specimens of, from Europe........0.ee0006 ADOC COD OUR OD CORE : 39 Buist, Drs sObservations Dy; «ct sb aeieiessrslaiahlob «ple Qe vei oa/s% o,06nlsioGiemaasctere elem 215 Bureau of Yards and Docks...........s0sees% Bicioc HOSS DONTS aie je: sPevbes ajs{eieze: slesepace 39 Burke, Speech on Conciliation with America...... slar'ejayelse) ate dpate ve shafeletalinvswierelers'eje) eite 165 Button Snake-Root, used for Serpent Poison .......esseeee eso e\sieie vise 84 sletenelainis ae 133 Burlington, Vermont, has smallest annual Fall of Rain... ...cceecceecssccceeseee 244 Burnett, Dr. J. W., Observations on Blood-Globules, Diyibis) ciara! alo wlelisinreye slovaxe! sate weyers 130 Cabot, commission stows svaicoslerxasidlees cievecicts o< SUE sled Swievalen sapsbie orate lei Atararoxele (elds 159 Cabot’s Voyages, result of...... AIAG CODCOD O LEO CORE cic ocerctot athsyshetolersforeys ordi evelers 163 Cacique of Quivira, statement by, respecting Treasure in New Mexico..... aierehaiers 313 @auseansnmend. by. Caine, .aciscaisisayoiowia: eae sia agisiolsftiem <eeisieine ae ciaaenar mene 108 RAC ego 2:5) 0, 0: in cacy save shovels.» papa olesa/sers, 6h’s denis aiorsaswiolareuso Orapsinveuauems 80.515, SSD EIR 82 @airors,sisceversie BVT aks, olay sievavedsus is cunielexn ceeieie on, Palasapieleeiseuen ese oes 6 siasetyebeleistayete 110, 111 Gaia Vainwleysrekentayeichersianeicabshe.e.00.0 5, siev cious jel asinkensisssishokexsioietotslovetetsayeists steve talansistatesepksret sieve ays 119 Wagon Hass sere restbeterehecieishejai0i0i 0u0,01e1 avserelesie® wjatote)oteaia\olete eptalevelele enclers's /eleitisysia{aiel stays 84 Walcasious, liowisiaiagy wo tisyscc ie ie wictava'b a apeled a eluate eval ethvate iateseletstavae ayavesvetsiele eevevemereiane 46 Gaile domia any, 6 chovetslestaiels ie a0 jorb)010se,snac0.eipieueys vvossseeie’s wie) ep ais « laieleleieie iors sie, svarefalsietscyeiels 93 Caliente Pass....... etetelaha/erel syazshesieisiesei ar oie sdepastakelopersieielsiaaiclors SOU OUSG OO TIUe fxeieteeeners 84 California Academy of Natural Sciences, instruments for....... o{eyes) esajaishehoheatetetetots 16 G@aliforniass. + jc/ce's, sroresharolorets o SiajaysicoyaiatWaatereteeotte os banjeiseine.0)6. 031) OOOO 4OsEDLs, Cds C4280 California, zeneral remarks.on. Climate Of... «so sioieie0 ce..00 «0,00 8,0 seje jeteiejasyelatejslole 231 WAS OP cyaletoroieeberckessiscecesrs's jornpanysysicveseoyoioienieseycxetss ocho Bg Ob coo co OOo 197, 236
Ned breeze offers cteteassicie.s,s.0.s.0:0 006 SUCH OO OC TOO OOUaO OI Ob Condon OOD oe 240
Rain, Storms, Clouds, and Mists Of... ¢.05.0.0.0 s,0» sje ssierete isi asia acs RR Sry eis)
Review of Weather for 1853........ sae iekeloiexeiegesoleieusteuee ioieon.e sarartelslonela 251
of Weather for February, 1854........s000 Sfojsae is elnyolais(ekevenaeleaie 254
of Weather, for 1854... 0ssess ses AICOTES 05-5 SUOOOT anions seiecers 255
Calliope, Orbit of.........0 pialesiskohaieteis ROO Ie ND Biopeneiciehaes ine! sueie lo wsainoetsste Bieter 144 CANTO GO OdO DOC OU TE DEOSD 0 OF CCRC IO s(espete sais woot doussoyeisisie;o Sa) store! sla\ssierone 117, 122 @Walvert county. Maryland... . cjerrieiss ojessic'ejs.biewnstareyates 6 Si ahavaelafoieGurekoys Releyetels ae eiehe 44
Camel, lecture on, 98; asan animal of war, 116; age of, 113 ; accounts of the power of, 117; Arabian, indifferent toe heat, 115; appropriate home of, 100 ; advan

<<<Page: 687>>>

412 INDEX. Page.
‘Came]—continued—
tages of for military purposes, 120 ; anatomical differences between the Arabian
and Bactrian, 102 ; appropriation by Congress to introduce, 121 ; burden of, 111;
best place to procure them for the United States, 122; bad swimmer, 106; civilized
life prejudicial to, 106; caravans cross glaciers, 117; color of, 114; domesticated
in Tuscany, 108; detects water at great distance, 109; difficulties in introduction
of, 121 ; endures privation from food, 107; effects of introduction of, among the In-
dians, 120; foot of, 105; fords rivers, 106; free from disease, 120; favorite food of,
107; feeding at temperature of 25° below zero, 118; fleece of some species
equal to the wool of Cashmere goat, 114; finest and fleetest Arabian will not
bear winter climate of Algiers, 118; growls of the, 115; hair shawls, 114;
height of, 113 ; harness of, 112; instances of fleetness, 110; in some parts of
the East employed as a beast of draught, 111 ; longevity of, greatest in the cold
and damp Russian provinces, 117; milk of, 114; milked without halting, 120;
method of securing at night, 121; most valuable in winter in the Crimea, 117;
moisture of our climate unfavorable to, 117 ; mostimportant peculiarity of, 106 ;
not fed ordinarily, 107; nostrils of, slit by Bedouins, 104; nomade in his habits,
101; never feeds at night, 115 ; numbers of, 118; not as patient as represented,
115 ; practicability and advantages of introducing into America, 116; perform-
ance of, in Algeria, &c., 105; price of, 120; preferred to horses by the Cal-
mucks, 117; period of gestation of, 120 ; paroxysms of, calmed, 115; power of,
to abstain from water, 109 ; quantity of food required by, 108; rate of travel
of, 110; security of seat on, 120; skeleton of, not found in the catacombs, 102 ;
special properties of different varieties, 117 ; surpasses all domestic quadrupeds
in speed and endurance, 110; species of, 101 ; used to carry sacred veil to Mecca,
115 ; transportation of an army by, 119; travels with security over snow and
mud, 106; training of, 113 ; used in war, 118; utility of, 114; used by Napo-
leon, 118; used in military service, 113; weight of, 113. Wamelus bactrianus' cr. %cvsteres 'cerev exe ovetcreterafeivzs ie's)@\laieraieretetetelaraverera ralexosthotcr tate tanelenreieketete 101 Gaiee] WS GRO TAS cpsreiers otoveve%eret rsh sterevaiavesto.rstehererasrevedetotovie ole ioteievtons%ere tevelolefalelele foleres loronerane 102 Gamelus GromeGarius se rie sois 1012 1e:oteve e's rarovers fnvetare isicioe-ore 0 fale one (eesaie Slolelayateie'e sie Galsiateters 101 **Camel’s temper,”’ proverbial expression......... od atoloieialotarafelatalelelele levels sieteeis © elev 115 Camels, food prepared and cooked on the backs of .......ccceescccscccscccsceces 120 Camels in General Aghouat’s Expedition did not drink from February to May...... 109 Camels of the Sultan of Morocco.......+++ ete aierorels aa rovateleejacatehateleters este xofecteustee eed 115 Cumeron,, Gilbertiiat wrt cterws.b.0toertisleans aiele tet steleskels ateYos roucsefetertoleterevsiees's atevehorererete OO en den That Campbell, AlbertH ore tcs crews wrens ie sletactatelieteaaletejs%e seeleleerst 2.5 CAGIO TIED 010,00'C atateve 83 Campbell, General Robert B..... Siovahorerclonelionnils DOC OS 601) OOOO OET EOD DOL avai siotciate 37 Campbell, Hugh...... a etatetee ene relates sales rereiwisarstare 576 BoSeaeeeG sivafeleisiatseisioielsle mn OD shoe Campbell, Lord, Observations of......-+e0e Sialereue SpevStabi\e iro 6 60\i0,6 ieee Cyahetenceachatone 161 Camp Far West, Rain at....... Sire ede aierrbie caries (ora SEW UO SOREN RS O01. o.oo! aja fantetate AEROS Oe OP Cam p' Shawnee Eveservations cic ccsc o'soistvas sis cloyeetiotestlels sieelcisre eve Stel Seles cpelelevele n 83 CaMbTidgesys.cicisferialeiareresiee asap artes aie steaatejokepostteteiren cs es PROSE OR COG oN 35 Wambrideo: ObservatOnyirs.o:0s six sais oa sces sicisisidere cigetaeens co ce acc etre ce cececscess 145 Camp Yuma>.i.. cicstsie So tslsys e, « oie: c0iies5-d15 peice wiealelaialelowiel elec ce eloieletemtactelehaseicisielalsveien IO hoe WaTiad Gis esieis stevie, spci Seater Peeee we wie ew areeseirerdeves Bove Merle hls 04 6 eases svejereidveste alcrereheleeMm oD MeL Canada, embassy from Congress t0.....ce.sceceeseee o\e' sie we'd eran a fo rale nya eies(oneYele/eleFs 174 Canada, efforts to obtain co-operation of, with thirteen colonies.......:ececeseeeee 173 Canada, expedition under Montgomery to.........eeeee sicheralels wiclehasetsveforioleterstere 174 Canada, transfer of, from French to British dominion....... ei icnsisahate aieverioteemarersic 174
Canada? Thun der-storma tay sieyaleten) ave siciderslsie:s:ero'e siein.0 #0 010 eva edvaralataleniecsbevartpraereenne’s 201

<<<Page: 688>>>

Page Canada CemlasaUiyasrercrclecieleleiee sielcleicls\cejeieis ciseis eleielssicie soe «(ats a{sieveisiefeleste/cleloteeletels 84, WamMa dian TIVE aieiereeclelels s/o oleresielorelelecievere:eice'cicle)elsola eleeise'e oicieaslevcjeleiesiotslerle crests 83 Canal atlsthmusvot Darien. impracticable: ic sro.c:csis eo o'0s © che sia: a:< sie\s\o,ee 6) 2-015 siete eters 93 Gamay, island sicpetetecte atotefaeie oe a eforel evasforwtenscllereicie so $ie\syssicieso sles aie aioe sieletaters HOOOOC 198 Canoe from Madagascar......... is\entet she Stacierelaielelsiele,seisie sie selsleice stele) 6: cie-oce|saie oe 43 Caiton del Infierno......... sVavtiskolerolestelers sraieieleislere(ohels cote cece cc cceesenecssccces 316. “Cape May Goody”’.......sscrseee alen,eteleielesiaa(elereis mrafelsietete/=ieta\sie vale! eatayers Siociotetelete 329 Came Oty Goodwloperieic.2-s co's wielsicercisiee oie-asieie tees clots sieleets hake [nstayele falas cKere/<issheyeralaie 89 Cape’ Palmas... 5 ss,0'0<0010.0,0.08 tere suelalalotcestoretereierstercievete safe rercretstelete reais sioys evercccce 45,94 Caranx chrysos (Yellow Caranx, Yellow Mackerel) ..o.serscreces elaletaheiciesaieselete'alsieys 336 Caravan, day’s journey, length of.........+.0+ akalalefsto\estclaletetalaretaiccrs Slevalcie yeisleieiere 110 Carboniferous Fossils.......++. NG Ad OOS Siavjevelelois'eiela siete terercurele!sjaisictelskate(s 39 CWarbuccia <)2.. .02s ofsiee « Soemssoae 103, 105, 107, 108, 109, 111, 112, 114, 115,,118, 120,.121 Carcharias ceeruleus (small Blue Shark) .....ccecceccecssoee aioe taratarcreforale siete sioreeerere 352 Wamimaltan passa Marcia otesiavercrswiorsieiesaehele e'o.e v/sohaielo eile staronedecierevera} sa} olui(oisfae oitvsistecnerees fe 90 Carleton, Major James Henry, Excursion in New Mexico by....... Sejecieveteoreieneite 296 Carlisle, Pennsylvania......sccceerees piubicvel elelerslatetalsisVal'oa,s olefoiect elerelsveersieiesraleterers 38, 45 aon ems! MAS epee ore MetegeianetohVorcretcisicionssie (6 eyo cals. «ie/eieicreyes\olalotsiegs fe/clersietaiclave sce sisie avai 89 Carol’, Reva,Jobn. mission tor Canada) Of; sseere onc eters os 016/0 a10s)0' see /enlessie\s sia sis sjoityereis 174 Carp lake..... Nees oamane eles ct sielals syelataialeisctsis's) sterseve) « siaveviale Slelesietaleveein(s sveraisys syars 88 Carrol, Charles, mission to Canada of............ svojsfalel ceieieia eiclarerele syste Gomebaoe 174 Garson is) Wall eyes seieretaisaielelsreiste’sllsileicin erslelsie isis: ie eleie! sj cisvoreles,alais\allelese) eicicyeie’s's oeye aisje eieie 87 Wasat Colona dans cere ce succor scers ele ieleisiehe schate\e ale srare cle: allele alevareie’s vleve eleieicehers Spouse SOOO mL Ny eos: Wasa, Ce dome 2 masts cover 0(a)s/ oes cre eyeloiejalie, susie exaialsie/s) 16) eereiei eel miehehelsietateeuerorete Srefeherene 311 @asas: Grandes; seenvalong Gila TIVEL. sicer e016 sisieiee ove se: 3\0/a/sre\s als ass ate! sva/s'e/sisiae's 6 see 311 WASCAGEINAN TCs: <:o\sjctvisisie16\ aig ciereles,s)eleis <le FOC CODE OUCCEOS sister si syoin\ Bicleielcle! acre ois Seoiicc 81, 82 @ascadermomta i Sise16 oto s ele esio16/0 6-sicle: clos "ere,¢/0;s) olosiote)eetesyois Sieleejcioieciots sieisie) oie fetenevote 279, 280 Casey, Captain......6. Seiad siaciototen cl ohe alehsfelesietels Acancac nelatete me eierees ols siejasieieies MOU SRAO Cashmere Goat..... aYoreavalers | Bakeoonoe @ wlessiaiesielievelelsicle\siesis/elere ee eheveicleystsrasiere stairs 114 Cassidy, Mrs .s0s0s00 soe Datlstccelenales ayelavatanielercnta\etosietate ataistelelaieheroielereie ita atasie sis ors Oi Castaneda :spiLiStOny sisie.s swisie wiciee s cies (ee o.c0luis cloisie e cise.ciolsn)s SJolslercisiote.e crate 306, 310, 311, 312. Catalogue of geological specimens collected by J. W. Foster.........sceccssecces 384 Catalogue of geological specimens collected by Dr. Charles T. Jackson............ * 338 Catalogue of geological specimens collected by Dr. John Locke........ Sisisiel sisieuasere 367. Catalogue of geological specimens collected by D. D. Owen.........0.5 mel oleeietere 393 Catalogue of geological specimens collected by J. D. Whitney..... pie sta stein lee yersteters 387. Catalogue of Berlandier collection... ..s.cescsceeceececccces Siofeseisie sleleciels savanetcielietere 396 Catalogues Of Stars icie cspsjeies o:0:s,0) +0015; +) odie 6 046 ssle.e-0\el sols slo sieln'e #.c10\e cieaiese e\o esfotatatele 145 Cataloguesior Iibrariesicollecte d's .i<,0.as\sieveiersioieicenieisie sie: tise wisicinie oe 6.0 ee crelaletesiviec cle 22. Catastornus gibbosus (Horned Sucker, Chub-sucker) ...sccccseccssccsscccnssccecs 341 Catacombs, skeleton'of' Camel mnotifound im: the’. « sicc016 eu. v0 sieves cleticieieisiae oo sees 102. Oat W isle ccs le occls oie olsosalsciajsiciejelsice-6\s1ele/a's sieiele|eele wielelesie.n! sjejsselehs Blaiclsletcicjeiay sale, setae 340 Catharine de’ Medici.......... mfeleke/o/sivie) sl eletnisini o\eelavelavelectefoyeteleietetelsvic’ sie sfecioretarete 123, Catholic: Clergy in New Mexic@sisas.> «,«00.«si0:0.00sieese100 Sapte esis nin sn eleiciaee «cies SU aster Waucasnsy TA ial SuiM aie stares crekeretseyaKere/eie leis vie aieleere sieietele leieicalotereyeleeie\nioile/eie/e'e sieleiavsue¥ers 274. Cause of Westerly Winds at San Francisco ......seeeeeees eaeisioleleisieis sieleielasteoletala 243 Cause: of Wiest. Winds: being+Col dvercrejas,. sss s's cis ojste%e\s seieie/sloisno 0 16 00,0 selsiseieeies 0x6 196 Caustic Potash in cases of serpent bite ......e..eeees ainfaverejale siele sic) eversiacals siehole/sinetere 132 Cavalry, introduction Of, Im. Prance)fote sis seis s + asic ersiecin'b/e cassie 04.0 0 6 91s ale 6 sions si 122 Wa VianUGLGAlis «.<’eja\c,sejsrelola erlerehofeieesete seleley sie 'enters s\eiaiovevs/ie's!s « aestoleleessteets s eforeeieleratele SI
Cedar Swamp creek. . 00+ ss ss sosicce orice 0s coisleic' ise sv evs dened ce ev sieles cess cneebine Guogdoe:

<<<Page: 689>>>

Page.
Centralization....cccesccrrcccscescccncccccoeces auessie.es seco ce tse ceccssvthevene 160 Centrarchus pomotis (Bass Sun-Fish)....... eielshelaisisieisr= ote ecleversccoercosevesos 325 Century of American colonization... .cceccccccccrecsccrccccssessevctsscsvecces 166 Centropristes nigricans (Black Bass)......cssssseveee cece cc scarce scsceeeeurons 323 Ceramium, or Sea-cabbage ........ cierae as nel ors ei stelsions micispelets aie leve castapeie ye cremvelesiexarete 319 Ceres, discovery of the planet........ siexenietesseleeisefe 000. 8a esse 0 619 0010 0 cai oes vis 138 Wervis Cama cictestetetetecciare sve 4 ¢ v1 iesevere!e, 670016; suoleiearonedederaieve nieietasiestaneteratalaelateleverovslevarore 38, 45 Getter HlarvomohsMrOZEMs sic eis. essay: eee olaseets, ale o/elae.e\ sisisie/e sie.01 <6 (0/6 Bede Boise, shaveaiolers 260 Ceylon, Palm-leaf from ..........+e0 sje (elvis ejsve ale rersbeeisieve, sseiese(eie hevesstetevehelsherersiecereis 42 Chacornac, of Paris, Asteroids discovered by. ....csccccsrccccsresccerccscerececs 139 Chaldean Shepherds, Planets Known to....ccscsesccsesccccrccscseccscscurees ve 137 Chamouni, Temperature in........ aietera\ee oxale aisaieroloeyersusiote sislexotevetensheles Veshohe voter svers 195
Chandlers Cut <'c-< 0vs1ssre.6 os1or0,0:4)0,0/6 6'e'0, 56, 016 eiblesyeisisisee.o oie aieeponeveisiatels ate saleverate(atavere 297 Channing, Dr. W. F., Lecture by........... ie tsk area Sesrinaad 0 ae Petey nih AAs 147 Chapparal Cock ..ccccccccccccccscccsscccsecssestesscsssccces SOO QOBOOCES eee 6 44 Gharacterof Inhabitants.of New -N@x1C0. ss:0:ssrs/a\sieled diciejsteoie(alnjeiavie'eiie je) 0 sleviejeisie 298 Charles Fifth’ of ‘Gran Quivirds,. o.< 6/ss.0.0' ees 0/0,sieteiere afavavalare et eayatelave. slsveserersctoreeueteterere 313 @harlesEX*oPIMeS) Offs. <i ere ssreieie oisieveajac) sisted Slee woh ote tele lorevaaseleis icuecalev ere exevstesietors 123
Charleston Colleme;'S.°C. 5s oa ceyeiw wieleeia s1e10ie 0. ciie sic'sslelsie Gsjo'ela ieee o eieinisicfeeleleseselee ox 43 Charleston, Wind at.......... aiave apa sverst are csie! elisus, a) oyseshonetol aleteetanane otaionateleeiaveccers sherste 188 Charleston, spoken of as ‘* The Distant Shore’... cece ceccsscccsccssvccvesseces 169
hrarlestome sss CO cate svaisvec Serevetle sicyoke c aralevaile isla sieleey tere ereniete role istelelete overs Maraletelercvocyerare 36 hase; IRV... HCM|AWIUMN) «jc 010; siasaelsia 6, a10,e1s/als oislie) 0 aiaia,olereiala/0/elora hase, Samuel, Mission’ to: Canada Off 2 .:0:0 16,06: 6:4 010% 19(e:aiord cacy exsfein ei sie, f 174 Chatten, Capt... s.r seve aifojal siaice/eroiahoi@ eyelets) eveajaetaysiaaie Chattims wlavern. jase. a01elsienteecs ebaEey avaiel srelsieueyay ell oteielstoens ayareieisyeMonete si bisisiersetekelsiherehe 340 Chatoessus ‘sionifer (0 hread Ferrin). «.«'scias 010)s, 010.56 ofes\a eles 0/0\e0\a\a eai0 nla, Mosleiererele 349 MO aa AS ctl srstoiet aol «} act. ose{ ais?e) eyais)'en.clels a ayaistey halos Risistiiereatelers Blecheraveeehe sjoieisgeierelafes¥ore(statesou iota
Chelonians, from Nebraska...... nncdorce Dodie SoDee eile! e elie la'ohelaisjoteVeleloyelerteleres valor 82 Whelomurd SELPCMUMA rss e\s.e cc'e-4 Wis: sis 2 ies: 66 ¥oas;at'e)/ oie’ lefe) evohacrovalenetae sustidocomn 39 Chemistry, Lectures on, by Dr. Smith.......... Sieie wi sanpinteiermteiate Snjateise'e.'s stgonenerete 29 Chenay, ‘Vornado of 3. io: 24... aielelestelevene/sciatene aeiaf oi eFanae siavaielorsicers’s sruitieotejsaieraletole 229 Cherokees, Treatment of Serpent Poison by..... siaxsrolaitiatetaiaetersiciaicis®, ae sisie/enrpeletele 133 Cherry-Tree in Norway near Ice....cescsceescseccecceres sisjeasee s \0{4.0 0)» oe eileislctele 195
NSITESHEY) COlwerate sfavals ovelaia sie toteteletjsajo/eteeks sje areskaeiata ens ste the alalalaci aioe «1s sueteyseta stehets 111, 120 AU HevitOt! EVI) sie stators sheets ere) sis)ase 5" .5 Seis siars Hct BOeN SROs bocca ae 0.6 6st a serelerae siehe 171 @incaco, Til. ci. satactociectevs s,s os cis © aleenatakatetsfolscia cvs ateeaters A op SOM cos siesta 36 Chief Justiciar, an Office introduced into England by William the Conqueror...... 161 Chihuahua ....... Sel atiovetate te Sistasave sie e.e-ae.at oae'e orelokacke 1 Se Shsyechevoreraye 38, 45, 278 Chile, Astronomical Expedition to ......... NOP OE Se Bhetoteieiesisteloescteke weelotel sje) aeletets 96 MCh Faerictectersteie eo « seis lenrousteerster sets sleiclssvovelel ofeciorere Seredeie'e/0's'e s(s'0'a) seleze)aloretexenperetetets 316
eeree eee ereew eee etree enene ere ewee ene een ee 93 OTT AWS CAS sc ietaleteccsters c's clas s.6 core’é clare cre’Sevetetecte RVatetsthats' 6. 89:6, aces asjou s,e1sie' sialeserelapi( Ost oo ene.O
Chimére, French Steamer......... esas :
Chinese Tartary, Camel in, used for Saddle or Burden..........csssccccsssccsece 112 Chippewa Language, Dictionary of......... VopeteteteRotels: «: o0.01/<)'s/aecletehetel seis e(aV oie tketslavele 14 Chlorine, Effect of, on Poisons..... sere eyene widcaveistete eye loiatailessieieorenrerere alent johreenevets ASS 135 Choate, Rufus, re-elected Regent..........0eceeeee 39).0:0) #.ayayaleie axajael sieheieleietevateriatare 72 Choate, Rufus, Resignation as Regent..... Sictatents wile’ o'ais: « ejesictaraayesieraucverelcuctehoatetetereke 76
Choate, Rufus, Statement relative to Paper by Mr. Jewett, Divincsete\e:crele eialcletelstsietelsrs 75 CHALCHAE ADO: ata. cc xstacrtptayes:.c.® eve Slereus siet.a.os a 0 44 é0.6.0 0: tiee. tie a ateneeineeets 300 ChirchratQuarra ssue ste wales es coe ete es mi enete sieve o seishe sieteielersetelte eletemmmnetecrere rove? 302 Church, Prof. A. E., Examiner of Major Alvord’s Memoir ......-
coerce cecrecees 14

<<<Page: 690>>>

Page
@iboleta Mountains’. «s<\s:c0 «ss + «0 Basaran Rr orarce slatsrcseteteie 0 86a iacetevertatctoreteerstetretettete 298 Ciinkn Seeess ope oduode sreteotete Bfatetfetslo(alercheteraialciecstetste esiclere ste (ate a Mevsielneintenyetere 36 Circular for Information on Libraries...... alekelemiorelele\erhereieis)cit/alslele ef eveletere sisi, LOsroune Circular to Publishers respecting Copyrights.......-.++«+. siseianste ole shate suey eheleneiele 400 Civilization, changes, forms, products, ae habits of Vegetables and Animals...... 99 Civilization, Demands of ............ BA SIC ATCO COOTUC Sislolen's eieleceiste'e cova eretere 99 Civilization, Science the Instrument of....... nleteleclaneie seeisievelslosio-siie ease sie'eiesiaierers' 147 Civilized and Savage Life.......... asidateleecesrenieters Sacrsietes sncadccamaddaweaes 99 Circuit, necessary for Electrical Conduction in the Telegraph.........sseeseeeee 149 Clapperton and Denham.........-Pie labin ie ghave(o'e.custerevsusiexeieke 105, 106, 107, 109, 114, 118, 120 Clarke county, Virginia ....... pisteycte sieerete sapere miotefelsvoraisareretslere Rtacfateietcisin eeinele ere 45 Clarke? SUM ONK <4:c siete Seren ow sieisle oie asi sjsiale Sia\ ace ateiere Santee cisiele (eons ovaoratercisiasiatelssterets ac 81 Clavigero, Opinion of, respecting Aztecs....... aiote ereieyeleiays)esleuetete Wele eiers elelelelsteinieis/e 312 Clear and Cloudy Days at San Francisco...... Mehel ois © evivalate\aieloie «cise ele wis'e'sies¥elelofeve 244 Cleveland "OMIO sissies siisae.cree'e SOeae cee S tere che srereiothere a wlaianets s suerene sees sd0, GO s4e Climate, Difference of, between Eastern and Western Continent..........eseeees 1kikys Climate of California, in Summer.........eesceces stolste(tereren's sate) steer ateioks eieoisiaevele 242
Influence of, on Health...... Rests Asis ehevaelskeuce ctetsrotente siviots 242 Climate of San Francisco, by Dr. H. Gibbons......... saudiaieveie'e Veraiveraietesletedee(ercie es 231 Climate of San Francisco during 1854...... AB SOCIO eistolelevole biclas a o/t'e Oelalele @levieleie 259 Climates, Camel adapted to different.............aieieteisyekeits Miwlolese neleie.aistole)ssieiejele's 115 Clouds at Philadelphia .......... "ORCS SS EEBOS aalolaleeielefale ate eletalersisieesrareletelavretarafers 223 Clouds at Sacramento, California ......... DienistexerevsatavateleVelstevaicictcvoiacis stelersieverevers BGO 268 Close Rolliat the: 24th ofr Elizabetliss «.<,s er ae,cterec's sas.cte/e 0 ec/eieielerars ces elesvere'ealelesve\o 164 Clouds sy Wormatiou\Ol sec avisictes sais elee-esleie’ocisisis secisie aise Telereccia shore sietene aneveroeverelntere 19ST QUT “‘ Cloud Cap”? described by Mr. Wise.......02e0e0e Lo LER CNS 8 tet 297, 228, 229 Giloudiness oimthevAirat "Greenwich « sci ss ¢, sire siocie.sie eleee sie ofeis 0 siee,e.ele's ns sieloe sisie ily Wlouds, Direction of, duritig: Rains... ic... ceesc cscs dnsele sassaceebecveces eee oe, 2403 DOU Clouds; Mists-Rain, Storms; at. San Prancisco..< «sce. sees ce se esae's siatet sieve odleteie es CoOrIoae Clupea mattowaca....... AtooouTne 5 Pane wot GrOMn OAC sore (aie,e,6is/ejeje\eto aie 349 Coagulation of the Blood aiddnead by Viper Poison syeferekontepeiseteieis Saaie's!e eisisiaieie Merete 129 Coahuila’ .cc8febsisres Rye ayeusave ars ai zateyatalebenete revere aisheronatevelevarctsketers/e ale leleuseie patel ous/ea evade 87, Shu Coast Range of Sonora and Sinaloa........seseeeee fs afeieNonovasToleloteicioisietstetdeononan 279 GORSEM SUV Ve cuctetedetenRet or ofa) co los 51.60 <\'s 161015: teysyansuel slaoveue/ans oieless/aiayeetels (ete telele elekaloge ....36, 66, 96 SOUS EEN VAUAS a SOM ORIMI ae e%o.0)10%0 5:0) shalaisua e100 wusers(eielsles/oleve ie isle. die /eieferelle ©.< eoveusieieie visio 238 Woour divAlene’. . siyepalseierciees s 0 cs 0 0-8 aie iss (orsorstensteiesicteceiomiors ajebusteneis:3.0:siscesareieskoneore oe 8] Wott IPT Obs cs El ic carers tise tedeicioj sve esis, 4-00.01? sv'eislanwleces eas! e'eis 1e'eielers 17, 20, 186, 188, 190, 201, 202 Coincidence of Explanation of Storms between Mr. Russell and Prof. Mitchell.... 199 Wolcasieiw, T4OUISIANA ss sje cveteeiereieve os 0 4 6s winveleia atareeralaveletel's: tive oe Sarna yalelelteys(erays, 615:6,5:-6 38 (Cholla CRABS AB oe Bobds oD CS COSI Meneb OOe ete) stohake sieveretere ae. Seherstevene sogodpamdc 42 Coldest Month in California........ 5 ioteialnvel ctareoleroishe aacet sever azansiacestohensustevereherascve)'srekelels 257, 258 Woldestilonth or, Che Wieariancaetatsrave + ss se e.cys shetey oie nis lejeeresoleioie slaaiepetens’e.0.0/ sya\e/erele'sieio 233 Woldest-Beriod OF Lhe Days. jereteevers c's ose. 0 0's oo'e(014 016 0 615) aye: si01 efslofale oinla nis «12! #10 oereis in oie 215 Collections Received for Museumscc. ss ...ccces ese os sp cles oeisic(es Bie ic. svalevelscoletetoneren 37 WOU Ges sa veicre cvsic ie sheloftve. inc ererelcretete Yavaraie ie, ala syolste\clerecenchersinicfoletshelaie sie ss 0! e/e/sieis felrctrs 36 Collins Enent Napoleons srccctscirer ine ste s+ sa sia sie! teva /eleiers, sie isieieo.0'a:0 se 6 \ale\ete #65 alates 89 Colomial’ CombinatiOw ss. /ais.crslsleveienetekevare ove cle « eltle o/ehevelscer bleyele, ere tie,e'c, 2 © 810.8 eleie elo 019! ters 174 Colonization of the French in Canada ..........+. Eialeiete a iereie\e else c\eicielerereiee\elcle’ efiati= 165 Colonization, Schemes of, in the 16th Century........ceseeceeeeeeeseceees siatetete 164 Colorado Wiver «cies vl cicle soe: eee eve Retsictaiis sieiieve/ on) cvetsate:e Secs cis)ee stele daa seo seo 84, 85,94 Columbia, Pennsylvania .......... ekstapeloncleloyelelerereyia(ova'< staeae se platsiatslaveielciojsisie Verne 44,346
Columbia (River oc csc gus eee sahovemarctstolericm ics cee siauie tule eloorexeetolaventsiets sislovete ores 81

<<<Page: 691>>>

Page. Columbus, Wiscoveries: HelOnels:socrsie\eseieies areietwlae'e eieveleaielsioleleese occa cvslole aelernacierchtale 158 Columbus, Discovery of Amertea DY . 0. 6:55. ss 0r00 6 ovo cereicic ce 00.5 o'talsieie's be sisipein oO Ia
Goltimilb tis 3 @ iO sajejers, corerapeveten tenetelers are 0a: ais Je clove. e olay io ele lecatialenoh telejsicrelsinsicretsvelccrerelereye 35 Coman CHES! sj;«ie:sjsienisieraisicletstaGlcioie, seo 0x0 0 oe’ oie' 0'so,oi6 eejesisiclstalesevercie ieoie'siejsicisisistelelelsie 86 Combination of Principles of Centralization and Local Independence...........+. 160 Comets, DIscovenysOterercteciericie:e/e'ce seis sis a/e0ielsiesis s/o elesie’e/oleleleleveriesoiaialciens elelelelete 145 Commerce between England and America, Beginning 0f........ceccsscccecrecees 163 Commerce between Russia and China carried on by means of Camels.........006 118 Commission-on' testing Building Materials, «2/6, s;60js ssc10js ee 9101 9\eiee oysisisieysicte)oceies oicielele 18 Commissioner of Indian Affairs...... ai aie aiatleyciuierel stevevaliecte a6 wissiovorels aateleteteieelafeteaieysie 36 Committee appointed to attend Committee of House of Representatives...-....+77 Committee.of Conference with Establishment. < o sic.scec:c:ciar cio. vaja'e 0 s/n oes tenjaicje | Sh VAO @ommittee ofPinance: appointed... cree. cole eect svelegalsa cleiaia/tscclm eteeiciede otisjevelelemier aie 77 Committee of House of Representatives appointed to investigate Affairs of the Institution. 60. eer ee cree cece eee ce cece ence ener ee se eens eee ence entreceeens 77 Common Sculpin..... aiispe stares falalalc) ofes/eh es 0: 8) apatauane mehr emieiapsctenioke EsOHO COON TOC ONS 328
Communication between Regents and Establishment........ccccsccccccssesceces 13,18 t=) >
Communication from G,. Cameron’. ior. «asec wists oreteenjoleynie:seieielelsnisien's esiscricererere” Gem
Communication from Hom. C. Wi. Upham 2). sioejciscere;orstas s,dieiove, elas niels ois, shovererseserele 76 Communication: from) Ji, Ms Stanley’. 00:2 0:40 sicjoie sv'eisierejeis.o,ouseus ale wisi o\slejuretes se eucle aie 77 Communication from, LL BIO TEE sie:., +0 eieic,srsie + o'siwoinis.e aes sisaloles syolselolelsioteeia sueitsiien ud OMI Communication relative to Geographical Gazette... ..2..cccccrsecccseccsisescsios 77 Communications to be addressed to ‘‘ Secretary of the Institution.’’............-. 20 @onclusions,ofy Min Bre pelt, srs.creyarsouesiereias)siajeien ois alelajyelesesioie melsie ie ekealejate ocacheteyonene 281 Concordia, Weale6 s.0.6, «) 0-<0.e10010\she 0.0019 0:8 Bala ei bios] ea, here) sreletelel e sioeVera joie eafeusbalcialai petelsterets 43 Wore TATA Oras a yoi'el wena ielesaleife eeteie: el ee a cielous'e iv ereitettiniofaves ohecovefeitrelateateie siavelcvensteisyeyeleretarela 127 Goncdensatroni WEvieliOl. se ekyc cis ieweie’ o's wheis onchais \arecosaialer alessioie lois cuenehopeeousdevorere fon velsts 226 Confederacy, Character and Duration of the First ....ccccccscccccssccesscscccns 176 Confederacy, the First in America ......e00cccscvresccsccaccscesesccenercecee 176 Conger Eel ...-ccsecccccscccccccccccccccerecscrcerseessec cesses eesesmrecaee 351 Conger occidentalis (Conger Eel) . ..-ccsssccscccecceccsccceccccccscccscssecvcs 351 Congress, Appropriation by, for SUrveys.. ....crcccccvcsceiccceecssessecsverces 80 Congress, Appropriation by, for Introducing the Camel ....-eceeeeeeereseeeeees 121 Congress, first object of, to obtain Colonial Redress.....esweeceresceeeeeceecnecs 173 Congress of 1774......+++4-sia} ojeie, scyaieie: shasta sfestalelataly/stevelsleVete\eleis\s)a0 si elerevcisvaaicieversts 169
Congress Library. ..ccsccccsscsccccscsscccccrsccsccsccsertressesesessesseses 2d,30 Conia Digitaline destroys Action of the Heart. .....cssceccnesscevcccceccvcerece 129
(Carr RBRIO TSG OOD COO COU CTO OUD ON MO Crm CUCLOG OO Db0 0.0 COMO CHES EIOO atic uO itiCces AT Connexion of different Ranges of Mountains. . 2. ..0cicvcecccsccceessctiecctecsiieie 275 @oustantinople,, Rain-ataresevors « 2/oye ees 00 ale isle wlalseisverielevie® © eves syerai'e/oale/clenefevsieiaiers 189 Constitution~Adoption’ Of .1c/s </s esaisie's ss, 01s/e/a cele oleiefeievele ce 0,0 0:06 vou areloyelesis(e/elafeleieyels 170
Constitution of United States, Primary Purpose of. .2.00..ccccscecseccecccsccces 157 Contentsjor Ninth Avinual’ Reportise:s:.:.jeiseisrereleontarersiete's 0:0 o's. o:« \stuisiacuepeveieusiamveaiactevens 401 ‘Continental, jusejof the, Term. Explained is,tc.<jpes ise «0 « ».6:0lsisojerenvssoierelasleisisieretels 173 Contras Costa, WWamd states oi cs eyer<c ac cvaieerwalelelepelatiole e'e\ae,e sie elcbhe/eievalasistalevetototeterste 243 Conventional Lines;running, Mast and West. <<icicies <ie'e ss 0,6 0 o1as,0 dices s:0010 e)sejelelalele 171 Gooachotope Pass :<1cc\secleseveinjesia e's. 0/5 6,0 0'</eie , aiereie's\c'0 as </eieieiaciols inl e/atehetajsicielebeaiaioled ual SOG Wooke’s) ROUtECs <:«:c:eies-sreiefoisersie) 9, siea.s.0's e0\9i6\s\s,so/9)0'e ¢ 06.0 0 ¢sinie sbisiaie sisepele cnhoijesineie StOneO Co-operation and not Monopoly, Maxim of Institution...........ccesscecesecces 19 Coopers, Dire T.iGry.< iss iesieisieie sos, 6 sie\esiuie'eo.ce'e le 16 e0\0's 0 6 onaln's cies sieialerniejelslelolelooielere 82 Cooper, Schooner Fennimores'e's;eociecccsicsccerccesvceveveedesisesicseiaucss cscs 89
a eS ee

<<<Page: 692>>>

Page. Copalinclosing, Insect iand Wizard, .(<)sic.0i0;6,6,0: 0/0010, 0,0,0.00, 0.0.00, 0 010 44.8 sjoxsieisiasyals Gansta) 44 Coppermine Mountains....... sieskesestsyers; siesieis Bieise\e ois: nistiosieveieris ofojejacteielalatesievae rela 276 Copyright Law, Operation of...... SOO COC APU CACC COOOC jana ayele ele (oneks sholstetoveleheyole 24 Copyright Laws and Instructions ..... Bispisieles stats sieiejsleies\a[eels iw{e cio eisicimisfersisiaciseteiate 400 Copyright Publications sent free of Postage to the Institution........ sisjelesieiajes oisjo tose Copyright Receipts.......... syelesereisieyaielenisiefotlests ajeyetesteieoie « sjoteja(etsieiois)e) dlsioyerexs 2 e,0\6 23 Coral Seasiisies.tjsreje1evss;0:0;0 sresiaetsielsien stoeatelsye aejetoxelniataleverus eiajel aie shoe <(e\es\0.0) 616 0; ,0/a\0 6 89 @orare;WDescription Of .<,.:s:0;0\n\eje.cie)ss lols 0) e-qsioiapsejeisye FPO UG TC OO TOC OCOORCOe sare 127 Corcoran and Riggs. ......... eisialeieis'<eis «le /alev sieverohectays FO Wiad 6 OLS GOR O Ore oo ee 01,65, 66 Cordilleras. .....<... Sal lesrsisyeierss/cictovele tisioleleselelaciovs, sjoreererente Wado atocorecscooee «91,273 Cornwall... ...... sinefarsiefeiesiatals boo aoe Co Doo ue nos bo) oraie, 6 eee) Slelsinieveteve\sle,.als\'e1e.0\ (0 162 Coronado, Francisco Vasquez de...--.s+e saysioceia) telials siaiehetalewieterciolsie selec) GUO, SLO soe Correspondence of the Institution, Character of .......cee eee e eee eees sfeloleesisielel=i= 14 Correspondence on Natural History ........cccecscceccoers store eisiereye (ois eheieietefers sie 282 Correspondence, Resolution of Board respecting...........++ ease io)e\sheicve) sis epsiote oe 78 Corson’s Inlet..... piavaiel sinsla\=jajeleciaveieieiss ai e].s/siseie'elsie (es:st0) soles siclolaas wielehaleite olachalelatere 319 Corvina argyroleuca (Silver Perch)....0eceesseeees a ehesiele eistajelelolsianesvelere Ssids siwie.ois 331 Corypha umbracaulifera...........ceeeeee Meiefefelsole celsteiseieiere o elooiofe treichersiceieiwiciee 42 Cotheal Mlessrstitis :c:< wis ns cteystyoieia sie le elevetesieleiealsictols\asicle.cte SOO OO OOO picvsieietaslecicieis. 1 SORES Cotton Regions, none in Europe........ sie\ efaeisiens Bieie Jans oilersicte’isjexele!e'e4s/s) sieielejas/eiel seis 189 Cotton; Seedsi of, from!’ Madagascar. oceiscccisis cies die cdsicise sae sinus o¥eyeisiexealsieisiere 43 Cottus virginianus...........0.. aha aTah ovat cTahaVslovevoselcele,ora/oisieVoelcleiensya\ehagel sis eoseiciseeees 328 Couch) Thiewt. (De Nise. siecle ayaieies fr aietelia, sateteveleleluiererere ohajele Sholsie)e'a swiss e evsjeus, 2) eieva) eso COON Count Cy priarit vec scie%s avisie 2s cielere ans. wel eelele ays HOU DRO Don ONGC Sjorelgisyaselelereseiciatohens 87 Cras... «<0. s Sie) otctelosssisieraral serertts hy alckeie/sele\a)eleteisis\o.</a a ietsiey si chester ajernlejay sfo/siisyeieieisje “5,008 330 Creed, Unanimity in, required in Confederacy... ...seeceesesccceececccceecscees 176 Cretaceous formation of Texas.......secccessees SCOR ODOC COO CEO DU NOD OOO EON O 280 Gretaceous Strata... s..cc acs esses sa \alefate o/s) ebelefs, sieleic/ayeXsicus (ogc lsroleheisfotsuenieleleveisisisjofe 281 Crimea, Age of Camel in the...........00. joie oioserelyeletersilaxere eysi ohare Boag Duce BOL eisjets 113 Crimea, Camel*abounds in... + v0ss6s00.0 RO CIS OO ODED COS DOO ONO O CE OC IOCOTE abisies 101 @romartyg@ oust is oc.c'sio.0s se ieee ep epeeieiue’s sais sis Seyepole cals sroveieel sic aniefojstereeiors sOOOU 187 Cromwell and Leverett, interview between......... ADO OLO BUD OOo OC wtyeistete 171 Cromwell’s Plan for Securing Conquest of Jamaica.......... BONDOC #10 0,eie a0, e)019.0°0 171 Crotalophorus massasauga....seecceeseceees olefeialeveleishevelsiessteisiniehetesia ojse(ybgiecete eee SORES Crotalophorus tergeminus..........ee00: elaifereisloveneieleeieeis eisicisichesis caves, oxslelevoqerclevavela 44 Grotalus, or Rattlesnakes:.........00% asa everevestoteis Bhesiereieieteepess Bia sexen ste sieuisjepeleqesiciele ays 124 G@rotallus GUMISSUS: |« ssttevetsierssss 60. 0.00 010 <,c\eeiclee siejsla yas eie/eieicinicieis «6 eunseloneetele <0 38 Crotalus tergeminus ..... Sleteleteles 2/0 sis sive a aVelalb)aferate? sVoselsjepaisciisisexs s orepemnierareioteleniel A 38 @rustaceans..:'s...... ceria Sesis{e\ciskes °\0\s0\alenis aisleie ve siaviers ie clsisisieks Ssiejelelsiesis,ec10 «ie 44 Cuba, Land and Sea Breezes. ........0.c0008 aleive\sielereb) s)<1ecieyefeiaeiteieiodessiele\sio. LOMG OU Cuba eINorth ers at..ic iS nasveetesicelete:se, 6's oNelsiejsieese's eieles's AG OCIOOS elelnisie (es vic oie ce. oe 203 Gucurbitaceous plants. . ..5..:.fasies se00:0,000 0/8 SOOO UCI DIO OUTDO c atalsctoveiniejeze)siaie(o)sie sis 99 Cullens Drsative cisstarares oduaralersedkesavoleiasls a'esiee 0 0 dale aicitveh dh Rte R eis owe Sie sis aislonetene 93 Cumberland ; Rain. ates osc eee vests Make sieisia iesheishs FOB ROSH OCOD ONE ROGREOTIDIOD CO DOC 197 @umbre Pass. sso. as 6 esis oss ahapalegaralele(e-is {evel e)eleelar shove sofas SCOR COS TOC OL 91 Canningham,, Joh Pe s).icreii Harenes ts sc0i ova: e 0'0s)eieiciaishoesfatale EW i=: sientetejaielearerefnsterste 43 Comninchama, Woilliant ss 22/25 asters sa tcl oa: tise: > 0 0:8)maravess eves) ehe''e/ bioe 0\e e\eiestiaite.e wigs ajeleiate 39 Cupping glasses, use of in cases of Serpent Bite... .s.cccececencscenenentecessece 132
Mis. Doc. 24——27

<<<Page: 693>>>

Page.
Curare, description of........ sievatasiicl cfd steiatorelestore atajeicretarclalle!sloeralvatete. sleiesevettietetacisveletels 12T Cure of the Bite of Serpents..... ne al akalot"a ee 'avella fa laleite fa st lartate aot atste%e avai ehevolarevenenevaelers 123 Currents at the Surface of the Earth and above it....... ste roteflalelieteta?s ciel ave’ etoleve/ ai sretetate 186 Curves of temperature and pressure. .....+.seeeeeeecceees Fie COCK AODD OO ONOOGOL 206 Curve of temperature and pressure for Milwaukie, Wisconsin. .........se.eeereee 206 Curve of temperature and pressure for New Wied, Texas..... estetotele(seteters Brectovetare 206. Curve of temperature and pressure for Stenben, Maine......... SP art Neale ate otesevestcl ale 207 Curve of temperature and pressure for Tuscaloosa, Alabama: cisceeetieve oles e Sho 206 Customs, great variety of, in England.............seeeeeeeeeeeee Saiefetstelevetersictetee 161 Catostomus tuberculatus.......... erecta rayeletaveraietsrerealesere ATA UOC doneiandnae 341 CwtisRen Deas arc ocsis sco owie sien es eielaless ee AE PRA OOIE OC DUS O UC OOCT. LO DODLTAD ODO 38, 43,97 Cuvier, Conjecture of....... Hocnawterelvsines Masicie s¥slasicloseciecolsterarie¥sse Dierereiateey ctereteKolete 106 Cyane, sloop-of-war.......s. secre sfel oiorel slavan\eleteveleliieustesisleienel rests Welesiotersie selevererets 93 Cybium maculatum (Spotted Cybium, Spanish Mackerel)......ee.s+eeeeerecereeees 335 Cypriani, Count............0. aele'e evalatne Braone axelerfsYorsieloie\clarol syeicvey sisle Voerekere’ sstetel ate : 87 Cyprinodon oVinUS.,.. eee. eeeee sere ees Shhooono once odnc Sleletasleteloieintrateveeistere 344,345 Cyprinodon parvus..... ate cccsnsoesccveeceresecsse sis Sole efeiee ssa elcshalelsoisetere eee 345 Cyprinod onts ss. o2:die sets aye elses Saree swiscisic once es\ewocicieicie soso Bonin tac ore seterchelets 319° Walcete ierecicvctave’ast are sistsferssveis mr avenicveteietaiore caarercrstselsie Miefes.cverioietarsarsiareshetercisnetetsetatess 341 WallassAGeconce’ Ms ieresics eieinvre sic) oss ss ps crsie sisters afelsy ofa isteratenseke nots Sessa) otaisre slste(e ee NO2Ga DAMES eters se asereteiol ca are Siela\aote'n/aKaiain als or ate: Vor c’oeraforatol 9 sistakerar sere oioeerete erasers seuss sielsteiers 81,82 Dalton, John, the Father of Meteorology. .........0. afo i eloxsisieterejsicisaysiers Sesvstevetale 183 Dalton, John, on Fluctuations of Barometer ..... SiSura shatbinede-oree ere seas aie ere lootavans tere 204 Dalton’s Conditions of Atmospheric Equilibrium.......... siecaslonerehale Salteretestotare ore 185 Dalton’s Explanation of the existence of Water in the Air..........eceeceeees Ant 190 Dalton’s Experiments on’ Vapor! ..' fs). sie 's'slers'eg wee skentel sielajeornietete Rristesie eslateretets 192 Dalton’s Observations........00 sieotateiers) Stats Sicserstelavetivs oe -ciaree sherate: etestenervemate eee 226,230 Dalton’s Tables'of Porce of Vapor: i23'01.%2%'s sess sa ee eo eee ees hale ce Ree 267 Dalton’s Theory of Constitution of Gasesitsr.' .'s1statee'ste'sa's!s/ateia'bs stale brecteteeereeiaeion 193 Dama scus'st.r.%s) fee te setatels oars etal ats) cleeiwteline\Gatetetarers stofate fala ste stolela shastetoterte siavehels aveverehavete 11} Dane county, Wisconsin -<s.1s sa ate0is scaetetela sce dio dias haberetatecenieenre aarsVatel sic a sy sstetele ate 43. Daniel; Mires Mime cystic scicccre scien cel Sea slate sie Sieicere s(elelanverctavateere sere celele'e HHO acute 23) Daniel’s Hygrometer < 2:%% <.''.). + /s's/ee!s/s'0 HEA OO TCH ED OCIA COCO LOL ae lon jsve,eoreavarers 267 Darien Ship Canal Expedition.........ece.cseseee ae ele tetateioyeye Seiesare c.edveteners DOOM! Watters oie sieresjeia'steies Rolate' eis al anasial ofovelais! eyo.eiel ayersevejoerolemeverstetecievetereies are 2 Sotuarereerere 328 Date-Palm, Arab’s opinion of Origin of......... Sek avsvehareaterens eh eibievtece cements Seer sie fe 114 Davenport, Dr. .)..523% ApS Et ASS See tA Siatatales 2 erate rete eieieiais sa saleeke A OCEIOT Lae 87 Davashieut. Alonzo Bitidescs sae see cibodes oe stanbelepeieve.c(s disvd:duaete Co troteererene ators 89 ‘“\Deadsianvss Journey’ .c'clcisieiee/soicleieeie «cious ole wreleelelsicishe’ see #0 <s nielente's aratactosels ele 276 Declaration of Independence......... Sittctcinie BS ecstapenrens Patawcieresiotere Bae Aetarectotetetele 170 | DERG An pac GUD OU OCU ORO aareatsions gS aNaorals esi abeanrersis Dials: dei aiersiertetans a ahaicfaters 38, 45,99, 100 DeKay, Nomenclature of............200 aleratstevete Hekaterere:ce «ah wiasatersreretalaieveohasiotekeFate 318 Dela wares stevie slehelclaier see’ 6 «6: w'sis siendiels|etrereielolsteorsiedslelesie «0/5 sin 3/0 Ge ie(ela/exdeisiejs ACO WOe 48. Delaware Creek....ccesscssess avaravckeladropelatetesnd ianetelasiave%:<' 50:10. cceieteessyaxeje/siefeistestarefeuens 85. Delaware River, Settlement on..........e0e0% MbeYopelevoliete'si evcrciene nara spoyere. siexehshe shakers ae 175 De le Condamine, Account of Woorara by.......sivjieienss;ere eval BOs UOC Sisjapalateexereye 127 Deloul, species of Camel........sseeeeeee Hi wiferersloys's; carenereye, selbissaalsis,sreyoasstetecketons . 113 Denham and Clapperton.......eeccessecceeceeeccsceserees 109,106, 107, 109, M4, 118,120 43
Denig, Edward T...ccccescccccccseccccrecccrrecscesccssecscuensceseccserees

<<<Page: 694>>>

Page. Deposites of Specimens of Natural History....ee-esseeeeeees Sc cesowccscacccees 44,45,4 Depths of Atlantic ocean, Soundings of. ....ccccesscccscsccocsscesccssvcss sisVerexe 91 Derby, H: W....... cs eeconee amas roononoS sfelsieisic\='rs Selesie aleteleclereteve tate wieteletaiere 36: Desert, home of the Camel.......... SOCKS ON mfetasisrstets eave ye Peleioletes aversion Bot 101 Desert, north of the Lower Colorado, lowest spot of the American Continent...... 281 Desertof* Gaines cc'ssisscs cs'eve velo sis olselels envee Soodionopr tieraavele, siblcisice, s\iemie’e smetete 118: Desert, six days’ journey in width, without any vegetation .......eseeeeseceeeee 107 Deserts, few portions of without shrubs..........++0++6arelenic tale telercivralic aca ete stale cree 10 Deserts; nature‘of Soilsofs.. 6 cece cst eece ss sgl eiaielaere: shevetole a, eidie otedi gente Mate rersire ote 104 Detroit, Michigan... ..ccscccscccccressecscece tio.o oiaclelele © wialeleisele eyefoenisisiaee ee ae 35, 87 Detroit rivers... 2200s cei eatery alaalstcloso's Siallesisieievstan is sete een ee eee ee eee eee erees 87 Dew, law of formation of........+050, (0 oNssatern /a ctw ois) afaioiovelestete oletoakeletetetat terete Sixstove ls 194 Dew point at Greenwich..... ailafa lssyasieiaveisie (6. eres :0jeieicrs orale es evalavelete [olenretele tates ohotatsteetal eye 215 Dew point, explanation of..........066. heel over eteisroterehersterereste A atevasiatelasevectaratare siveleys 216 Dew point, Russell’s rule for ascertaining........... aleiel staleletcisiels Bra viele/eialelere elects we 221 Diablos, Mounts. cis:6 s,s, 6 aietve,ce\alerentexete aWeieiioh duels el atoaveexelateere aslo sterorcinieiets HG OUOOIC 251 Dia-macnetism, Explanation, Ofer «cele viesre «00:00:00,000 coee 0 oie BOG OUon Oe aelahererere 17 Dia-magnetism, Ruhmkorff’s apparatus ..........Bless @/aiule thai iuleieyaieistarerete relate eieters 17 Diary of an Excursion in New Mexico, by Major J. H. Carleton..... Byetelaveisciiore ste 296 Dickinson, Jno., Visit to Boston of...... a ckeie costs roieraiay otaretelonaers alelavelstere evetece Seterdiel oT te 169 Dictionary of Chippewa Language.........6ascceecceee 9 eee wee oe SAG COO LOe 14 Wittendorfer, Dri... <,c1ejsc0:0 08.0: silaveisusvere ocsieke ess wie © wlan evatepelelsVebelts otedavetesiclerc tole eke eielenetels 85 Difference between climate of Eastern and Western continents........ sisieleeisielsier 117 Diodon! TaligiMOsus' <..6% ae 0:015,00.06 0 pretetelerschev siecle Seisiionesaveraia alate sieleralelslereie ter eisteioia 351 Diodon maculato-striatus (Spot-Striped Balloon-Fish) .....eseeeereee Sie%S e)siele c)syarei 351 Discovery of the Asteroids....... bane ene e eee ee sess ence cecseccsos sa ois wieis'e sales 138, 139 Dissenting Colonists of Rhode Island Refused Admission into Confederacy ........ 176 Mistmbution of Collections. <'sicies oe ssies ayeierceioieisiseieissieies @\2, San Sous DOr amecvatcrs Al Distribution of Duplicate Specimens in Natural History made......... Bieraio s/s. cxaiere 25 Division of Longitudinal Basin of American Continent by Depression of Soil...... 281 Di WY Gres MGeCLUTES DY... 5.0110, coin ajeleisistese!0ls wleslsjeloie shesares)o(nieseravle cle sfuieleleleialaisreieiere s 28 Dodgeville, Wisconsin ...... pres ctteleicielorateistererscteiereeiets a 301s) iene eieishslelotale'ste s)eajereiarele 88 Dog-shark . << ss. escees aiefoiseievels sie)(sieis rele! sietele o(slele meleraleieicie) sieis(lelolsre FOCI COUCCIAD GOT *337 Dolp ain), Bri0%.c cvevsiniejereceictoiwie’s sic 0.013 Brelste sie eke aniaratd ops sigs aylavsy'atallaie voretotayeyenseiecetov cheaters ach, SO1EEOS Domestic Animals of Beaver islands..........+AED OONUACRO OUD DCU OCOL areraqexete 282 HD OMAPATIAocis)c.5/a0 o/nleiolelololefncysioisei= «(c/s a'e\e's 6s, o%aisiejercTais #.8 00) 0(6 6p leviejere 6 0010s vs 6016,ep0.8)s OA IORIOO t Donations to Museum during 1854 .......0eeeeeeee 601.005 oi cieise SOULE oaleiee a clsiele 42 Doneikons, Lieut, 1: 0: a0,s0 sisianetsie's oe 6's bissie'd 9.0 00.0,0.00i0 wines o.as 0-0 Sieien oicyejahstmieinlers HIST OS Donné, found Iodine to counteract Strychnia........... esses S\e\s0\e 6\o\0,siaielsteeloreie(eys 135 Day SMT. « ois's, oo, 0:0 9 ot in wi aletate eeYeje:sie,010, 015, #0019 sisi mvoslie\sjeleissyajeislolsisissorejezafeieversrelelscstels 81 Douglas, Stephen A., Resolution of, respecting Correspondence.....+..seeeeeeees 78 Dromedary Corps it, Alsorias ise icleisseiajssves e's 4 /a6is,0.¢.n0.0so ayaiasinie @iahdes quate se. siete ois 109 Dromedany Corps ETactica ble: sc jarsues cna <,are00 in, oa%ieis asieraralelGeieled aueleieisie @mterk amie 116 Dromedatyi,, Mescription OF s some teletesssisita.e ses ole aitelapelmepasyalslaiekies ae 66a sie 102 Dromedary, JONMEON SI StOry Ola sterdiiieis edie @ 4'c1<s'ss,s Wists @ereeacialaisias.0.00 eid aainiareiere 110 Dromedary, not a Camel with two bari ps. «.« +s 0:0:0:92/01e-0/siaiessiaie eisjsis o'ss oo Aevearen ae: 102 Dromedary, Performance Ol As ciecwisienieieceis 4 ac'ee\die'edjsleian/e'ed 6 6tcie 0:6 wa $059 eas emia 122 Dromedary ivemment Of Napoleons sis) seraic css s.0)sis discs ace ee ieee ones od eon sesiges 119
Dromicdaxy should be brought from Almeritiz. << sie'ss/0.0.0.000, <isjss's's o0encoeeesivnsicieics 122

<<<Page: 695>>>

Page. Drought, caused by Westerly Winds. .....seeeccccsecceeverecscccereceececeeee 196 Wyryers, T.. Diels, «sve sjayetesiicreieoselejetsierioiel 6 eiee,cle, ©/elsie/e/s a0 0 e\elolejein sUsisje,0.cinieleiseiaielclenaleiasieleie 43 Dry Lagoon of Cooke’s Route......seees wee e cece coc eeeeneesecncccccsccesese 280 Dryness, Maximum and Minimum........sseseesscececees el aiseusesohaiel caeritenele aol 217 Dryness at Greenwich.......... A sievatoyelajoueielateisl ofaeis Seciofsteveisatetele rans aye st ejoxal® stesalexotele 216 Dryness at Philadelphia.......... siacisiexs eisislsjetsis sienssetels,sisiejeserelslojeteinve\erenlove =! sfetatele 221 Dutch Dominion favorable to Colonial Combination...........++atsieepers)« 2 sejeloieteis 176 Dutch West India Company, Grant to ..........2afew Wisve ie) oojojs(obelsm efejexa/sleievexaislahete 175 Durango. /..j0\0.0\)s0e 0:0 eslaic)« ctestaieleieies eielejener BH OcIOd USOC HON DON On CoG: Cock beksjefelolelale 87,277 Dwight, President........ a's siding a geicueisio Oe oha) So peie er alaoynyein, ©: as,a(eveiel ee «ee O MNO Ome Cette me Biaagle Pass... seccccceescsesncascians pi cis,auarselsheisalsjelolelesratet ste .elelmie ele) ste ieis niche vc wieleps 37 MantofiCornrom:,Talcahwanas JReruis «sire (asuale ajaueuteve'ereisighe soouce eyarondssevelactemtotes aisie 43 Earthquake Shocks in California........ ates stale FOU OTIC HCO OIOUD Baro 9 30 ajeion 258 Earth not yet Subdued by Man....... Sietaisslsiajeleisiele\stsey6) eke Silojslevenoies aiavi/aletetaheista\sse 98 East Indies, Method of Preparing Poison in............0e.00. Bongo to socccoae ee 127 East and West Floridas to be Admitted into the Confederation....... rare eat sanavere aie 174 Mas tian (Ca iii 55,5; sisi acc/eus aoraye eet oieie siwis coyere a steke aihaaieheotedaiciare Rafetevche Hetecn cletel eleeves : 95 East Troy, Wisconsin......... asisiete\aleil si oreteheiereaeiots Sladleleleielalstoleesie ste eiele Sehestokete Sic 88 Eaton, Prof., Associated with Mr. Spencer.......... alelesieretete UES ots Whasicrola chen everetate 26 Eccentricity of the Planetary Orbits...........-e00 aisclaeiane Soe sbopnos Ei stterota oe 142 PRC cel Sa tevhetoitoretel oralisvaveie: sie wuss ove wus ei ateira oi ois sidurwan tele-ereiee ayers shovel ast tere Lele elctaheteecte ete ile 43 Eclipse of Sun, May 26, 1854, Account of...... b aiwisieeyeidl oreveRiecsve ters ad bAaia ee etats tale 17 Edgecombe County, N. C....-....0Or cacti MONE ee Aca trail eerieacte SRReIGe on : 43 Edgeworth, A. B........eeeees Susichatots oyous ciel Sy clase eisier alot Saleye el et sis’ evsen etanetey elena eletansta 38,43 Edrisi, Camels Fed with Dried Fish, according to... ....ccceesccccccces etecter erste 107 Edward I, Life Saved by his Wife............ act ctalsatavalelsiaidelclatelaisscre)cemehs coke siciels 132 Bdwards Dra s Anise ss sists. ataei stotevelevtel sraiejsciniels: eos, cve/cieie'e ete sie cheisars| stetetar eielel stmt fa tc Effects of Serpent Bite... cccesccccescceees Sales u\cteles lores: o\gleiniepcs.staneteie) stefettelereleteller= 126 Effect of Poisons referred to Sympathy.......... alefara’s covele/oieleclarele Biaetaleeeyeteveieis'e's 128 Effects of Wounds of Poisoned Arrow identical with those of the Bite of Serpents. 128 Efficient Action Secured by Harmony of Views and Unity of Purpose........6. 50 30 Effigy Mounds of Wisconsin. ......c2.ssseesccscccsssece SCH PUOOCDIORCIOKR DDS bie 10 Eterretninger om Marokos.........+.. ha eeleteae sie bh Sino tdoo bd GUrAOOATOOr siarjesiciele 115 Eggs of American Birds. ......s.cesccccsevecccorcce So COUT CEB OGOHEO tcc seve 42 Egypt, Irrigation Required in..........6. SHOU OTOL pin ne ava ani stere/etielevetene 189 Egy ptologists, Opinion of, respecting the Camel ......--eeseeePASO RETO HOCOOCOOS 102 Paps ifulivins: s.s.cves ce aero acts ciasste ee POH FORGO BA aretteciorsie:s acto axe SrrekentucieKene BA DOS 43 Hlaphas canadensis ....ccccccrcccccsccccencccetre se sereccetecccrscene scisieeteley” SOMAo Mlasticitysomi Steam «sec cese sees 6 ties Se dis Seteintateldote sc" 6, ec)» sre a)otevelevelayoeneiele srerere 192 Eleanor, Wife of Edward I, Saved his Life from Wound of a Poisoned Dagger .... 132 Electricity, Agent in Generation of Storms ......-e.seer sees Steteskoleekotente SAAR Se 225 Electricity, Experiments of Professor Henry in ..... sino :eiese\eiss Syersisieiete sietmietomseieialove's 153 Electro-Magnetic Escapement.........+. dielereteleriotate! slese v\c\seielalaleleniere elaieleyeielecte eeee 152 Electric Telegraph described. ........0. Aiahutontale siete siete: e siejolensexelehelelerer chstenslaye Bisielere's 148 Electric Telegraph, introduction of .......-.e005 SYaias ole) ajaialieyetsete sro1saole!sleletaarelese/s © 148 Elephantiasis, in Many Cases Remote Effect of Serpent Bite..... sjecia)eleatelsiateleies0\ehe 126 Elie de Beaumont........-e:e0Pielein's widtaleveietetevaetsls’ ielerore sialeid aleielsielcefatslefolaetsyatsicisie,« 274 Elizabeth, Queen. ...ecceceese Diaieteiorteeks Wis eleele e°e\e oie sie/achelaveielestelnteveteoLatshgnie|etetes 164

<<<Page: 696>>>

Page. Elizabeth, Queen, Dedication of the Fairy Queen to............ ateal a iate (a ie oieleterers 165 IE TII5) e alolsienlc\oteleventele sic Be fafatetelis\o cfolleVelotefoletereuctelettyslalaisie/ stale claleiels)ske/ovevetsatelchotenemterehesustere 45 El Paso del Norte...... wifeiel sna (oa tolashovaYe|(ehaloyelaieiaieie Soeletsleveiere 37, 80, 84, 85, 275, 278, 298, 312 Biliyriaiss OPersiavt/c sisvelesiereie’e/sisieis/esie ise AES domoscows Biegetas|nvelsisharsio lore oefetsle Sia/velefetsiore 87 Hira Darna ss pRUiViel:toherciessi¢eiersciole efs|eie¥exei ers fokeksiororelactels arayalatefolalotesaVeiniesio’s o/tstattersotererovete 88 Embassy to Canada from Congress......+.+ sels obs, s cals yofoleteletolasiolevolelaeieta(istes's stores 174 EMM OT ye LV Lau OT VWs: EL « essuelesersienierele\e! 20 0\eseiaicsie stoteie'sje\eles s\e"s sielelofelsstsleralsise sie)'s te sles! OUsEoO Endicott, Governor, Leveret’s Dispatch to..... Haieieteteaxete Bs ee A RT BL 171 Engelman, Dr. George. ......seeeees apaateveieliehesvelelotercteeyetcfarets Ufahsletstalsiccheysaleisiamaiaie 36, 38, 43 England, Annual Fall of Rain in..... siodefevenve lets stejer vale ecarciianters efelacl austai/ales eels a's FOoe 197 England and Holland, War between....... sles oi auatefoveres.avetboneens ate PEC OUG O60 BOO 175 England, great Variety of Customs in......ccecccssssiees len) aiekel shoal shelelelan exeleiose 161 England, Hills in 2.6.0.0. cree Siero leiefee o:0ite/olewraneyeveleley eters stotelereraavatecese a elcicelereists : 274 English colonization in America.....e.. se. siehabiefefeiele aieloielojes)ojcichs’<lolalsia'sheiaveranetele 166 Buglish; Delay of;. in-colomizing: AMELICA o's s0.0 sie sooo o's seve eisisies eels 06 wie nisis stefeie 163 English Expedition to Isthmus of Darien...........-saetois toe ere a ieterer ater Modstelenetets 93 English Party, Rescue of Lieut. Strain by. . 2... ..00cccrgeence csisncwcains cue'sie'es 93 English Race, Title of, to America .....0cccecesscccecees Sieteia sjeletete VOOaOU CONC aie 159 English Writers attribute Poison of Woorara to Strychnine....+.ss++seesisal exs sors 137 English, W. H., Resolution of, to appoint a Committee on Finance........sseeee 77 Engraulis vittata (Anchovy) ...eeeseessecees epapeetoierstecs eB etelistanesioiste cae etakeht fore leste stains 347 Engravings, Collection Of. ...sceccececccccscscccssccrccces oS enateieesevetetes BO 27 Entonology......Byereheniete apevan sy scoshellelsy ila srsiwie,elaclsteiel afaicrelateoreheisele lela siotelotavatatetonele 42 Entomology of Minnesota ...... nisieisnioisisierss sie sekcwieiene ai wieke}be la. lade wiel Stateie}s, «ls siete . 292 Eoff, John, Habits of Black Bass, Dy. ..eesssecessecsccescssceure sioPaeicterateate syatoe 289 Equivalents of Mountains .....+.eeeeee aie ove, oak al hehereieloiesltetete B Sistslafatelslaie¥ssiotels aie 274 IETMIAT oia}ie:.s'5j6;0 ice 076 BAe loiclato tw oes es alenenevesielalouahaiscrekesialeressatetae ACCA OOO DHOCNO OOS 112, 118 Ervendburg, Dr. L. C..........-agelsaiessieleies = ooieiee eevee ee doles dfoisiolate sisfelsstorals «» 39,43 Eryngium aquaticum, or Button-Snake Root...... ai okay alotevayeteter etavohaa\'s:aieveneatas tar alate eleXe 133 Escapement, Electro-Magnetic......seeseecees Sere calevaiesal esiolelee'aiie: sie eevole shsjeleteiels 152 Esox fasciatus (Short-Billed Pike) ...+.02++ ators avers savas w lealetatel stat shaieleisiate eters siate efele AS YSAD Hsox flavulus. .a/sccorsioe.eveve Aireyorereilel sievoyers\osarelelonelskesiaveveuclanterals Syatevelotaseee Galanshavevesye avers aia 344 HSOX OVINUS .¢ oo cara a sereieieerecie ateteveleveoreratey si slate¥ercoxe atetiatalosenosaste Stevateiavelsteoters Sletesiatetelete 345 Fsox reticulatus (Pickerel)....... ailavelesoisiele atelale ieie/eichaweles vans: aie ieersieretehas dTavd/alestolofatets 346 BS ple gle, ABII9y., ore: a:s\everassleverciesieieie-e s)susaereeioretoietneusxausiavalaveste a afataieateia er oceNsoretekeioper ett diols 93 Bspy,, Professor ./.% sevsiewcjoisiee sees cence SiSaretelersioinetore ATEN etele Sto die 194, 196, 197, 198, 200 Espy, Professor, his Explanation of Fall of Barometer..........++++ sislatel ole sfolelersis 210 Espy’s Explanation of Oscillations of the Barometer..... sini or alolstoletostatenaiMeteds\ eolets Aye 218 Espy, Professor, Hypothesis of.........++ ale tdelere te Siconiog Rteei ale eheterte NG 050), Seles lee eBepeee Espy, Professor, Line of Minimum Pressure traced by .......-+ateyseterers dalelerelaoholere 205 Espy’s Meteorological Report, Hare’s Queries On... .eeeeeeeeeecererreeces selseels 203 Espy, Professor, his Services in Meteorology ...... eValostelajelateclerctels eie''s 6 eslaistenieteleels 181 Espy’s Theory founded on Dalton’s Observations. ......sseeeeeecereeseeerseeeees 226 Estanque at Gran Quivira..........66. Siaiaiecevateeretece Bictaraiersat statalsvel'e's diate late svereetetsreteta 308 Estimates for Building exceeded... .., cee ceceeceeccncecccesccnnceserseeeesecece 71 Estimate of Appropriations for 1855.......406 aes aehSacatants estotetelors Sratapaleraatanets aelete 74 Fistufas at (Gran Quiviras's sels sateletelevcicteisiee's0 le ciclo leieise ee elevsic oe siete clesieicielelcieie elaeieas 308
Ethnology, Attention especially paid to... .essesssececcesccnecccrreccsscessence ll

<<<Page: 697>>>

Page.
Eucinostomus argenteus..ccsccccssccescccccccccsccccssccsccscccescccccsencen 335 Eucinostomus, genus......eeere aisicloiolelactetalalsiocyatelcctars|s sishelsieis\@’ ie) e/e/6sleisie/e an laiatevel= 334 Eupatorium perfoliatum, or Boneset.........+ soe ecerereresecccssececcccoccons 133 Europe, Packages from, for American Societies .....sssecscccscccccrccccrccccs 35 Europe, no Cotton or Sugar Regions in...++seerees efelaieisiaiste afaeteieVasieieleielasjaicisicistepe 189
Europe, Peculiarities of Weather and Storms of....... a jeiia'a 61 dts) shaliels) ein lo16)0's 0) seie siete 210 Europe, Public Buildings in ........+. axalererevaslels ole lee e/0.0/0,00.6 «em 'e\ain ale ajeieieislele cle\eiale 39 Butwnia..ccccrcccsccccers 0 eee 1s]sa 0:68 666,610 @ 00.010) s0\e\e's0 acl e[6e eleheleige(eisle viceieisie) sie 45 HHIVA NSS Ta ilctevetsietes sie s/evsie 6.1 sareiele skedisvate’ dfadtalele,cion wlaleyerssreie a\ence sial sletslotahejasialsiatalere IkoCgteiels Bivans; Wr Uaics ccecc ce Sareleravolalarsneeeseisie ayo cis@inecalaleiele) s1a,a s\slalalcelslsierteistesioinveiaiet Osi 4 Aone
Evaporation ..... eiecoteley aor estes Slordciaiaje\slae wieia\el sie) olelafe; eiein(oleise, ele/s sisvie\eleisraelers\seleCels 194 Exceptions to Rule of Rise of Temperature with Rise of Barometer.........+++++ 208 Exchanges, Account of System Of...+eesseseetseeereeee vial = [eles sfsievercissleeecciarsret LOU ‘¢ Excito-Motory ’’ System of Fire-Alarm Telegraph .....sccecccsccccsccvcrecee 153 Executive Committee, Estimates by ....cccccccccccsecccerccccescccecccsscsrecs 74 Executive Committee, Report of... 2 sscccccscccccrccccscesccescsecsseccrccces 57
Expansion of Air causes Cold....scsccccccsccccsscccccrccccccescscccssccscsese 196, 197 Expansion of the Republic ..........+-. ale eleleleigie b ea/stale sicieleievcis ole Selcletevel steve eiaveferers 163 Expedition to the Arctic .....ee.eeeeeeuee Sictertareletceteletsatererate eersiateoteneratere aie aileletotets 91 Expedition to the Euphrates.....c.ssssecccessctreccccreccccsccssececsrecesess 120
Expedition to the Isthmus of Darien........ee6POD OOD OP CHOU OUSGRODBOOCIOOGOE 93 Expenditure: on Library... 2001s 0cccsceceecciecsecesercc secre viecisicselescenccions 22 Hxpenditures: during -18H54-s <.c'.:iee 21000 s esie! se eie ve o.e'nie velo tion ela'ee siolon siclelofecislajsvestele Ol lghOS Experiments for testing Building. Materials... oi s:00s seieiee 6s e'siese 0 siesta oe'alen ere else 18 Experiments in. Algeria on Camel oe 00:00 20:0's ecien snes solcw arenes wslavieiclen eles slosiniols 119 Experiments in Stereotyping ....... o's (9 ies jdieleletea'e sts; s\aplatersteseeustelelastersicctetaheaete orate 23 Experiment of introducing Camel should be tried on a large scale........ Sfeisteiefeiote 121 Ex periments.on! Serpent; Poisons. <. «i0d0 srsie.00s.6 as eso cre er'als ajsiaalsisleleneeieiegesle cee LOOM OS
Experiments with Rattlesnakes ......... © so Sreelon ie wivisian a0 @:sied)e\aranlslelgieins slejeetsie ° 132 Exploration in Western Missouri and Kanzas..... sisteleiele' ee sinie{olaehaie’s\e oleie'e: tosses 88 Explorations by Dr. Hoy, Mr. Barry, and Professor Baird .....0...eeee0e. sveisietetsts 15 Exploration by Herndon and Gibbon ........:.ceceeeeees steale) sfolal develo c'e%e'e sate sees 93 Exploration by Thomas H. Scrope ...cee..sssceeves ROD Deed OO DOOR OCIS OL On 93
Explorationjo£ Behring’s Straits :.0:0:0.20.00 4000 wjneeweaeis ala chelate} jee ieiein'e\c\sterslensoiatafeta 89 Exploration.of China.Seas......ssceccesese aga evelanevavasyshays\averetoletate.a/ateveldbhate shelaloraiaks 89 Exploration of Coast of Western Africa .......Sielislayeicse fois iale cai's,0,<:<\ais cheterercbevetavers 92 Exploration of Northern Wisconsin .......... TOUS Bi 00 b DAD DODO ROO OD EGO DUC OD 88 Hxplorationiof, the Parana, sasjsiecs a arciesiarevews toons otolertatereleleaisiele'e swlcssrete soleteisiovelerelels 90
Exploration of the Red River..... POC SCR AO OD OO Syalotejaia, o-ejoisvele ‘tute miejshestefetotete 94 Exploration of the Valley of the Amazon... ..ccccseecessees a sisivinfoisvele)o\o\cetevayelele 93 Hxploration ofthe, Zuni and Colorado WRivers) ais scstspasale ece'e 0 0:0:b0) cle wnuare, Jem meiaywies 94
Explorations, Government ........ sie,aialoisievesajaieveleteisiete\eia\els! oo apshalenicteletnrelcfoterinvebets 94 Explorations, Report on.......... asnacoDe COO CCORCECne wieksiseilelsitie Saetarsietave 79 Extracts from Scientific Correspondence ...... eatatekelehecie,s «siasie Sisliasshejslajeieitoineicis ere 224
Fabulous Stories respecting Ruins of Gran Quivira.....esscecseccseeverecccees . 314 Fairy Queen, Dedication of............6+ Sjefeaiens aleloiovew 4,0. eb vlslouahsave)syajexereleieietesstenciars 165 Fallow Deer..... aia soyfooyevafolataialo,s joie) 6/6) e/siar6, «1s eleleisvejoye'e, s/o, dielaieha sinters cieielaslasteloreleiniot-deic 45 Malls:of the, Misso urics,s,ccxercteis ise 001010" si0,610 sya jaurSvo\ajaceio., 0, «ietstavatareys oie ajeiavetelefeietshersisicn.s 81 Fangs or teeth of Rattlesnake described......... a Siofe Sia epedysteyestonehena) alopsteloetetttate) ateve 125

<<<Page: 698>>>

Page.
Faraday... sccccccrcccreccrccccccsescsescseenssessnecccesesseesseneesenenees 227 Harancia: ADACUNUS <4 s\<10\0 «ev 2: 6 =910\6 ve 0/s/00 00:0 Stadsapec sferalale cheaters Sinolomotovduoad 43 Farmer, M. G., Invention by........ siotecrevelsis eeie ie seisKe isi afavoie)se olele) sxetveveiseistlcere -150,152 Farmer’s Protected Grove’s Battery. .....cesceeesseccese sia taveeva\efovarcleteromteredemteters 154 Mather tue! worsteteves's s)s\e'esie/e-e/e1s:si6/s/ealete eilaistoxejerieieleue’ sea sie nictelersteisie/e'<o/e ele eiesleterete oil OO MMLUMT Father Huc........ ngage ae Slaleiale Sielclelave craters areersleractsl sie/eiesls/e\eiees.are, ois clelefa sets 112 Father Huc..... sievdis\ejclelelsa/eiee siecjaleleisioweyelelares axatniateie(oaiase wleKxels\ess sete eaeleteroie coves LES eS Mat MOD ELA Ci icle sietecie\c/eie.st ele iesietsicle « Sieiieicteiercess rela tatenvelevepaive (nicl slajsleie.6 os:s/sle/eleereefe) ee 117 Ravi Ore Graysetsiatcie! se (eleleiel siciest siete ehacieiaie Servic Oates selaleleretsevarsisiole emievercle > dgpoot nd 121 February, 1854, Weather of San Francisco during. .....++.eeeeeeeeees bapadican Se 254 Federal Republic, Development Of. ......essseeeeereeerees mefsieyele Misiois eleieisisteis' ess 162 . Ferguson, Asteroids discovered by....sesseeeecseccecee rer eecesceeeeesarecenees 139 Fertility of United States, Cause of.........--good Gcabor ales a) e efe selelerenioyelereicioie, sis 189 uinanee, COMMNILtCC Ol. «cis ce crcie soe, eicleis ecie's cece eiealoletere safes a davacsices eerste Be a 78 Financial System, good Results of.......eeeeseees a BOootae sic sled cleisiaisis sleloselemstels 9 Fins, Abbreviations of Names of..........65 se ieiejatere eV seieieite Biko eno ewe ob le ores eferee erate 320 Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Lecture on...........e6se eseese Sfe/slevieielete asec eccscccee 147 Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Construction of by M. G. Farmer.....+++++s+eeee a aleroiere 151 Fire-Alarm Telegraph contains elements of a perfect Police System..........--ste 155 Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Experiments to test .......seeeeeeeereeeees ereyeheeqete seks He 151 Fire-Alarm Telegraph, First Experiment with. .....eeeceeseees eo ay sislavia/ stale reker sleratels 150 Fire-Alarm Telegraph, First Notice of .....s+eeseeBlots Rolncraeate enue ccc fetereeiniets ae 150 Fire-Alarm Telegraph, Method of Action.........ceeseeees a's aisie018 we eecvcscces 152 Fire-Alarm Telegraph, System of Organization ..esssseeccceececceseccccereens 15] Fire in London in 1666......-..+eeBielslalisheyse ereselstesieveseheiteieiciastsie AtGIconD $.8)60.67S w0)%0 168 Hes hit Citiesis.s:sis\ee e1ciessoinis dleveieve aereneis sleeve atenie ais ielaleveeleisyerei soxoincotataversinersielssieie aren 150 RISIN OS sare erste pe stavevnohacd-0) s/n, 8h" sider overs, a75v le) 0:6. 0s) sxG/iein ntavale, vje.Sierbusteleyatere.s) 10) 38,42, 43,44, 45,46 Fishes Collected in the. Lake Basin......... Boke eeecenta isis lorie \oociaoreteYs eiecraleysioe cere 87 Fishes of Beaver Islands............... etaveleleteteteiet eVersislatelecterare srevevelss aie sjevecteherals d 282 Mishesiofong, Tsland. . 66.0 sie sse.c.s wie eleisiavieleisialesiaslolofcslale sieisclsielesie/e) vrelscks)=(6 os 317 Bish: of Minmesutar ic c'0. 6s 5 ss ove D ctopetereieis ciclcencte sci al oe sheisy clnvctereshsioieret sola crereiemiatces 292 Wishes of Newrerseys MREport ON’. 2.6 oad dele cies cic sin Saree ccee wicle wee scesececevons . 317 Wishes) of theiOhionstete sc aceceees cuss ae eoteiereestcrare meratoiate eieieeleve clevelesciateet sio'e AGORIC 87 Fishes, Vernacular Appellations of different......e....seeeees a eteis cee ete ovstyels asic 317 Flathead Lake....... OCR OCS screlate dcclehote wevoteletaved Sava dove soetae ee Bee tte iereiotekere 5 81 Flathead Village........... BIRO OU CCOOT OO US OO OUI DO Oo anIbe GC baiG Hu oMOT bbc Beis: 82 Fleece of Camel Equal to Wool of Crain Goats sence GCROOOT Be croteneiecrsrs aioe 114 Plight of-Birds,Legend respecting .°.02'. #.. se ees cee ss seen ate seats Stareticheenieteis)e7s 159 Flood in Eastern Pennsylvania............¢oy earatsleyarce e's (scioieres aie’ spateionctoreiste sae cies 246 Wlonas Orbit ofs s <.sctex stebpaletedoles.ees alia’ 3 io Vele felai'ateiae eialatera ib hie Taste eg ooo erates ore ovat 142 HP LOTIGa <1. ‘sie aohaierecce she sjsnstore sfesiuiche aiseielerenstenters rareisieysiestctere Miasletenelevesiors ererenictenciels 37, 49 Florida, Temperature at..... eelaveieiae oc ee ele eelaus o7elatanexeners Seco BEANS it a sinve.e Oe sioner eye 209 Fligel, Dr. J. G., Distribution of matter DY talclessatete 4 eieceiavearevoledeteneieise sé sisteelatecare 32 Hlugel Dr Te Gs iT hanks tometer ne. as ocivate Seen ce etere ee TE vo Saree cetine ioe 36 Fluctuations of ‘Temperature st. Peisid.o cs ccscee cones slevaptevevelaiciers:e: «ejs'e-eiel sie] ehole eyelets 235 liv Mash saree trclersicrdelsta celeiereieela sae cc cesees sacrsvalestre scodiapdonc srerereratets poe 327 MepiasOn Right. Wilales. c/a clacaemasean ccs s cide Gnas gies wave sie swereleresyeletetess nisveteves 45 Fog at Sacramento, California ........... rareapeleratel seis yatetexaeicisisers/s) steles Miakelevs jeiete a 268
WIGOEPIAMIEY EVIVOL viosJa'sicicreei nieve on alata nas. b 6 cso ie es ebsc-4 8 es)0 © dye in'eisinvlece vie’ es\eveis/eie 81

<<<Page: 699>>>

Page. Hon) dusia cir sgssereisiersiejatorsierere seiaelsisislelee wie aioieeiois Boia ro lakersbe alisies exeice s tohetonsienstenetenets sob 88 Fontana attributes Death from Serpent Poison to effect on Blood...... mreloneictagetor «+. 129, 130 Fontana’s Experiments............00 ereifoisihetn baie late isle alevegetsieronaileheVeresieielacleletaleioiteaels 131 Force of the Winds at California..........ssee0 slayeiesieleleseisittstel seis eietaleiveleseoievelelers 238 Force of Vapor at Philadelphia ............ Savaxejajeicuisialaravale¥eralclavayeteake) is Sisleiolerersratate 222 Force of Wind at Philadelphia. ............ss000s Rishoisbonielors setekeveksisiekeysafajets soierere 223 Force, Peter, Series of Notices of Aurora by........... ails s\;Sra} ars dato Metelav syietelovesoltoricerate 13 ord es) Mrcvcteusevousolees eves.e aeusiaieie aieicd-evayahineis|ayauateen siayeseu's sites ie; sexe toWeteloonetavc\arctoxheiehene 93 Foreign Elements in the Union..........ee06sje oieketeroserale seis austen celoiakecbakegsctaietatcieiss 175 Foreign Exchanges, Statistics of....00..+ee0. a saiotefeseveea\e,e eiseyeierersiosneveletaveats s\stelewy Olseee Foreman, Dr., left the Institution for Patent Office...... BYelehavers erexeve Srelejeterolaepeleisye%e 23 Horshay.ProfessOr .s\s.0.0 «(ss elercelaislel visa ac lslwiare Sisblatenad orache siate/ee/elelavere sie wislelscxetonsietuers 39 ortuna Onbditvols tere aa eiersisieer craters fonsie eueheiisheyolesrcteleyetelers) oies|aielsteuesFatens Shee sevaherohcistekene 141 Orb HA EiMSOM ae aierelateic reves lore Percicro oleviotere siestersrelalecieteloxe}acrnislose ss are spear aot .clelaiols siete! | SOsnOo Hort, Belknap. iicies.coc-civis sue aie aio osee eo" jes) sisleielasreie/eie\sie/elslesteleia.e aie joes eSetan' ia) eve\ers ante 86 Hert Benton siete laies o.0:< elas’ oie io tsereeleve. aise) sl elerereisisteloxene satel btonacelcotchesNereysreysieheusiamtens sisloaily Olstoe OTE BOISE pays ie eyo aliases Savane, ove resis) siaieeie e skeyopo rages tava exersicisisiavers aiasiajerateterose avelatnisiasterecehere 82 Hort Browns prevailino WMS at ..<ys sai: 0;eieie!aisi0.0:aja\e sores e@havese oie wheiahsve fassnayolale shoves) scene os 190 ort Colval Vet..c iors sieiciciaenie: bidye.oveiceis seheioue Biaie ta) oyelateie velebelesess o/otelorarexetsl one sve leheieteielclehe vere sé 81 ontallallll eg ccclsveres) s/5,6 afoatel a) fo''en a; sscis\elo.os%)clounigs isteveraialelsusio yetaysiovegeneieretstals aistois elev svots\s ie 81 Fort Kearney..... sfastollogeseieinieIelcstetsie afenisleleiejassaVete) of saielshecie Jolelsints’ sislstestoleie crveece : 86 Bort Waramicis.s.. c'eissis.eieciey sic. avanhopstaccisctaers Sreishsysiecie eievelestovejsiise avarsiete avisrepeteierehate 86, 87 Bortrlueavenworths . syats:orais<. ose a sivaichetofcre scofetoretrerniene apaKegeqnie stcete shevesere ciate steeds oysistetone 81 Mort; Massachusetise:s <.eretes.c:craileeatelescsieiei te eshavececvavere aie eee ok tava i Malusrallege ebartteontetoratecs 31..6a Wont Morgane s1s0/54 cleteolesiclevesici ele ctale/foleisis'e) stelsiafe ote sofale' el evoaisxels'esaie G) olsctshelalafasielate os 46. Fort Ripley, Natural History of country about..... BAO OTIOOOGC 5 aol wi sialaia elateveislet Vets 291 IBFORER SUNG 2% aictesaveietnetcicts siorelt Aeisthelelissievciettl ais stoves diesels Wielsieslaysi otsatotayohoncietarepatoiers .-.37,45,83 Ont OW SOM a cisve elev tolete a. a5.Q0e Brerasvererereianvstere wieieilelbicGnstenels ave si wee loys Sxelaunetensta Cote benenatets 37, 43 Orta GDSLET! Meie(ate tosis essere screl@iesnatere anjeraliohanate Valoite’e MottavTe le fb oiteve ove lotalereusr staat biaveveare¥evsveys. OAs ound Bort Wnion, Nebraska cs aratacs.cisietos s otctalee slave's is.coisiele aiesteete DOD AOS DMO CODE IST 43,81,82 Bort Vancouver's. 2c shares s «ts hee kee ese Cae SB OCDAODOTOR BOIS AC 81 OME MNAULITI a iayster sere ete cies feiots cotter oie at srciale adie aes tice ictal eysifetieteve teers ee « oN'a\s,ejlih colsuelelets 80, 279 Fossil Bone, from North Carolina.........ccceeee eons Ste etalsy SNetstvajelh\ sie's epstestenate 5c 45 Fossil Mammals from Nebraska..........eceeec00 Paks sve raisin eon cael e jsie\isys, ars erettatate reves 82 Fossil Wood........ adores 's\'ais1a:'s, blazove. Siewert 2 SOBs SANS a tantccste te ache erases aleielstoouicke sieeuehsiey OO pea IOSSIIS), 3515/0: oles Peete tas oe ae aeras ees auataiapsis sisie\eieysaudeeeeets isfayel cis «) a\aieletenetdotale 39, 43, 44, 45 Foster, J. W., Catalogue of minerals, &c., collected by....es..eeeeee eiaio\aiotere levels 384 MGS J ee. a eae re ee ee ee ayaicoseketelslenietolatecs 38 WOX SENG A @DETIOS' 6 i: cdiasare iowa setctorciaensnene aisle ara Soke Meat susie se -o'o-«: asitrs when eeate és) eS, 44587 MOR TVCT nevensteveiaacc @)5s sinia'cvo-a'aistetcr sates matalclos! ays, se etenevetaetote e arco. aie Sralaerabekaiel iaieeetetenete 88 Franklin, Benjamin, Character and influence of..... Bieta tas). cberotnie Sa lejsicetenevoretamt state 170 Franklin, Benjamin, Mission to Canada of..... G05 06 DORE DDD DOL EGOD I S.S ol elpissejeis 174 Franklin, Benjamin, Postmaster General.........eeeeeseeee setiehaole Sorc apicgooe 169 Franklin, Benjamin, Scheme of Confederation of ......... oes ears PROS COO RODS 173 rank lin),: Benjamin smaeravels: OF . =:<'s.acsadsk-ovore eleeetereeies: «ela aisle maces eee ae Bron 169 Brankslin Institutes sorters, acre sijaves'e.c eels tees sd ayeckepeeene PEIO EDO 05 a stelehal ste 35 HramMkLin Sie TOM sie rsteletestatets lols's Bie." se wrote SemitNehovce slats Sixehere aeapercieYecicioee disiaie:a 3 92, 96 Framingham, Massachusetts, Fishes at...... slosVasefe'e| os: a’sictevesiste ov eoie s\e/s\alajafetejo\s ae 324
J PAGETS orev o¥e'siescaers sae Marsieoiae es eAberVeitara cretesiers as asesinne wile\ahes cictaveseereuaoxetenie aiecrs, LUD mus

<<<Page: 700>>>

Page. Fraxinus, or common Ash...eesecscseecerececetreeecerecan eee etreseeereceeens 133 Fredericksburg, Virginia ...... wie ia\e serere ee aaisjebefete(ele) cineca SOB OOS eerie cieis se ees 44 Bremont;” Cole: Tie @e a: <icrere ore wtvifcuposavevetenletorerstente erence clevaieietes a ciah ole oyoneyeushecmstovatate 83, 85, 89, 96 French Canadians read little. .........06. ay ave ueyspatorsojeisveres asia /isisie sxoisieysienieiaie otesketsss 174 French Expedition to Isthmus of Darien ....++++++ ayateie sds eters a jcledexeisib.e) skaleysisfeieysine 93 French naturalist, observations by, on Mountain Ranges..... iA a laliejey ayo iotenereyoieavi Selocoiens 171 ea Gra reve Po fow aac (otiavoute ova reVonroxeevensbonctosdoxsusiessieusyoheleyoyeperse ones sleek stereus}0(e/sie/ose)eie%e) #\'¢e.sis/elers 148 Fund Account of the Institution..... slaxskeop dou aua}sWajeksjan eh spas A COCO COOOL OOOO OT 62 Fundulus diaphanus .....cccccescceccssececenscce solvexcnshasisis pps Sexels sistelejeis le-eyeis;s 343 Bundulus fasciatus... s.cccsccceecrcees a ald oyd¥e avevenexekersvellane apeh's roleistoltsberstetete) cis\olaljerle’ slexsleye 344 Fundulus multifasciatus......+..6@) SaleValeted eof atetetelaevevetat aahanotehe¥antane\e Syesioiopsralesicuels 344 Bramdalus' zebra ts ctae iste sctes sei esters eis wo rete ware se ste vetelars obo creia\eieycveveelelsfeialssleiaieleleateie\e 342 Frenchmen and Englishmen, characteristic Difference between......+Honco ooo 161 HESEtSsratess) at's oe ADDU COOS TIO Sint cls|sfola'al sais alaleictotstetectaveren steele ieistelsiovelelesle} stele ° 246 Bincebel sere Wirlitis ste tcccss care e’e' cele’ ere oe \e'e'e Lighae ee eie SRS hs sts tee latch tevetobotere 39 Frebel, Julius, Physical Geography by.-.......eee0eee 3 selele’s c se'e'e's etceceracs o272 Frogs, Account of...... A clonretalole sate ore © esroleie Bias sisie! oioutal eters selene s/aietste ave ceictoleleielere 40 Frost in July in New England......... BDH UO IMAC ses sees eal stale shohailis! clatetevare 2 VST Frosts in Latitude 130 North....... yalstaprate avelocisetentarclaqerec ster aloctofelelsjastete safe sievers 118 Fry, an American Hunter at Manzana ........ SCORCH OER REG tehalitatsere eee ate 304 radsdenMUTCHASe crs sists elenetere side Salas elseies csleses sk oe eeoeyete BIO DIO ORO Oh ac 281 Galeichitiiysamarinusas sts cctetae ees ticle ese e's cretslaisle(astals lel sins tate Bhales siekere:totote ears revers 341 Gallery of Art...... Delereretelee © Sere lel eerelenets SOORIO as ctefetoles sie lelevente cielslsictsle aie sieve 9,26 Garden"Key,"Plorida.% s.'..0ss as o% tees aia ilsyetales (oieral Rete MVahete Wile tceterele alalejeietessevotecste Sall Garner GM Ga Pesca velo be crates © oho b.5 cota nee. i eaeiate ciel onishoaieteate lots 2 | Samed: Garrard Wieutenamnt.t./.'.'st:''e'slee's\e%ss 0 lol scialelora ottatete etorlavete a} oalalatateyectsijene stasieleterele 85 Gases, Diffusive Velocity of..... Oraltcatemleiostthanccatetete sh einis. elotehelelatel oot eletetsere awe 193 Gases, Mechanism of....... SQbAgOOC AADC Seiotetapstestoret Side Baie alana Oeelala dats ele crea 183 Gases Properties) Of": s'sisis! soi 'c elscls/eicdts/elelelcetele ts tofth be etolelts's afaterathetete siden stevietey state 184 Gases, Specific Gravity of .....esseecees saleisereterclelscfatc a alecioieletofer aiele(elaiereieieiecerers 193 Gasparis of Naples, Asteroids discovered by .......eeceececccecccoors cosesccces 139,140 Ghaspelias <cjerereiitesierets.« auiovatavels sities lelstorate din ele vets ciate aieysicialetrieate eerniera reiterates fare 90 Gasterosteus inconstans....... cletcis'arsusisiishe; srolotele(eberstateioreia sist cer ci cla cuakoten elatelorestelele Bic 342 Gasterosteus quadracus (Stickleback) ......cesecceecsrecce LOO DOO ete siatersteweretels 328 Geass WP Loke rotate taterctaneretcavetal oho e(e.“ave' ete talio'ee rai fe'Yo telavelatele eiatinove welovenie ete availa see otwowerenete ots 138 Gaza; Theodore ..:.s-vetesssteverereres a atie's a lavat ovaleiasfavaisWeret stay a¥O) slasled sxaisBatate(ey aie’ elevate) eleveneoekavate ale 102 General-Catalogue of Libraries......0.00.scsicces sive ccc sovecesece g sveravelsiofaete sioeieles 22 General Remarks on Fishes of Beaver Islands.......... Boo Coma crpinic atsiet sists lavelo.ls}s 287 General Statement of Expenditures..........ee. e006 Sistajared clelatelelsiotefafeleledectstelsielsis © 60 General View of Receipts and Expenditures, 1854........... starhlalatectale cleveis eie\eretetshe 57 Genoa, Harbor of, frozen.......... ates’ 'w'atotetenbsietalrcereoate eke Melatatdotes o's |s's © ove lelselerate 260 Geococcyx MeXICANUS .:.1.) a iaetlelcileieed oo viel seie's slolatatles folie velesye'e teasteiec's oes lelwte alot 44 Geographical and Commercial Gazette, Communication relative to ......++eeeee 77 Geographical Distribution of the Camel..............000. Ho SEE ICRDE NOOR AIO 101, 102 Geographical Knowledge of California.............. sr aralefo\G aletore Gin erot slevolelighaitetaialetelave 272 Geography, Science of.........06. mloke)syeiene sickers efeicbossbesis Stedelajsys di eedousteiRshahaere) 6 (sieve a 273 Geological Character of California ..........000+ Siero sted seee tay orehealeveiera Bilatelictove, shatererels 280 Geological and Statistical Society............... B(einieladN detains ails’ Sid(e stevanale Uatelseletststeye 35
Geological Survey of California..... stesieve ise aefcvaleleisioleje(seye elclevels ns qsiciere sel stele Wetviciete 35

<<<Page: 701>>>

Page.
Geological Survey of Pennsylvania.......cccccccerecccscccerecscssccenestcscces 35 Geological Survey of United States in Michigan...... os vei lelieleieieie,s.eielejavejeie e enlejereiee *338 Geologists, Question raised by, respecting Mountains ....sseeecceescrecceuresoes 274
274 14
Geology, ‘well establishedtfact (Of. 4 '.:0-ac% reve tnsieicte'e atolare @icrelssatelslelere/aleisieiein'leleieelefelelers
Geometry, Contribution to... .. ec. cccsescvees elvis sieves sree vwlentelolelnlaiote sl seletere loKsterehele Geomys bursarius (Gopher), Habits Of... sseeecesccccerecccccecceecee o's eeicieicieve 293 Georce Teste Githaletaatavclots \e"steielabetcersele's ate (at eVatota|fe iors 010 nore Vesserelsialosialevaieiee|elejeisheisic 166 Georretown'cieie se erete'es s stetates iareravetaste\e staieiae oie! o(eloxeistsin wie werajeloleyeloleveumcyokeielefeisleres 36 Georgetown College ........easieciees sisiakelereieiereie Setsiessieyesie eee cecesoes 6) ;e0 100 @<0 36 Georgetown, S. C., Fish from ......-..-0aie ojos efe{Cotereisiales ea lesareless)eseeqelatekelactelaraneya 324 GeOTgIa i chereterces« solechataie see sisinie Sosatetankohone s Gleis ioe olelersiaysta\elsieiejsereielerepslolarevetvelsleteretere 49 Georgia, Settlement of .....e..eeee wousteXojelelepereveatstalaieyssleiene\sieclereisysiestelals ojeshalafol ays 166 Germany 2... cccccccrccccccccrnedcnscecssssenceursccesesssrcvccssecesces seve 45 Germany, Opinion in, respecting Planets... ccccecscccscccscccscssccessccescoss 137 Gessner, Error respecting Dromedary exposed by.....ceccccccecccsccccscccssces 102 Gestation of the Camel...... sere sfeustsiole stewielalsie lovers jstepaejetd shel.srehsajeloiel syeis\.ejeieloiehasllaiate 120 Gibbes, Professor L. R., Examiner of Major Alvord’s Memoir. .......eeeerecceece 13 Gibbon, Juieutenant: Lardner «<:c.ci05 ssc0.0 e.00'e' 0s SOMOS DOGO o SOCOM OCOCIC COCO ey oe Gibbons, Dr. Henry, on the Climate of San Francisco..... w sloysyeisio\wiecelels) joie avsiaielale « 231
Gila River... «ie. 600 minealbete ieialekatetale. eta jasc outiniowunsavsnensis REE AOC OCU OC CIO OOD ot tel pea Galas Walley of ther. © ss asec ciejers'e ere Shh Se ce Bia cowiad ossel ele slakelve o7a eiatueieloleretecieiejelets 280 Gilbert, Sir Humphrey... .-...0-.+2+ i I gig gaiteCevelianwehers dielecieiecelers staves eetcehersieetaists 164 Gilliss, Lieutenant: J. Mie..s.< o5,0.c cisses0.s: 0109 eisiere dsieis eisiealels avlerelswleniaiqie's <0, 40044 100500800 Mra Gly CO atoneiniaatoyejereieckere evistste efesieisrecteys basis avert dhe, sieisis o s:iae/s,cleleveisiaisesketeteletelsyersiee a UO apne
Girard, Charles, Catalogue of Exchanges by ...seeeeeeere Saja tacuereiecievsicioleetstevereiele 21 Girard College, Prof. Bache’s Observations at....ssccccsscccsesers sleicyeyeiasielepefels 215
Gasborne, Mr: (ojs0,e)s:08.0,5,0018 8 Sbaystet evs cassie loreievesete(eteroiere feel eis aa scoieheisteeleie ovelcoveteherctetel ate Glaishier, Observations by.....0e.sesseeeee {4 cle 0.se sieges ve esos weele sccccsces Ae 2 Gloucester county, Virginia....... oe cceeseces seer cece reece ernccecrerssccs Gobius alepidotus (Variegated Goby) ...... wishes dicts cles eloiehie sicerelotelalsietlaiea,sieleslolejeseie Godfrey, Willis, Thanks to. <.cec:ass0 siesioreseiere siccretelesieys ale /aicsaie/acfeisisieies aiarec.siefeleuac 318 Goldsmith of Paris, Asteroids discovered by.......seceeeseees Bicvestoicts Siseietecernehetate 139 Goodfellow, THEM yierosjoceres sie sieioasqerel v1 s oxoxcteje eve, aturslehatelsveres akatleyeya}iors /elele% vel ojepatesrexenstake 92 Gookins (Captain's, ssstees cise a's efaissho aia! ai'es,o ofe wleisie\cleis%e Vejhoiataitatel eels .01-i0)s) eleisisiolviete aC 172 Gopher of Illinois, Habits of the...... SA CCOIGUA Ee SOARS OCCT OIOPIT oceimalerestetere 293
rOTPOrid. Passe. 2 ..0a/cisecsieprisisieavow's afeisefoiseisier & eicpalae okmloieresye cis’ iae joie a\oqstecetenteteneiets 84 Goudot, M., opinion of, respecting Poisons......... atetalekeieletoks' a) ove «\ehaenevehalsvelal makerets 127 Gould, Dr. B. A., Astronomical Journal.......... slesfaere!s ovis oxoieieets sielsinieiaclajeletenehameleegle Gourard’s paper on Dromedary regiment..... ws ieXas|oneie lore\eiore.te! o\0:4 iepaeiete oe’ cieyontavehatatele RO lok Government Expeditions sending Collections...........a fo dienje’ sibjojasyesaie) eieniokeatals 37 Governmentireportis.of .Mxploratioms\s,. c.e-<ieyalso/aiicricic'o.c se.» 0.0 \sssietetala) elaine alates 94 Graham, Asteroids discovered by....ee..eeee. SeUatetenioiie\e, 0s 6 els rea lorete BHO BOSD AG 139 Granada, Temperatures 10. -siais.cineje arash isrereeionroieiera auto evar caw Ste wi(oatotesoksvect aietors eietetots 195 Grand Duke of Tuscany, working Camels on farm Of ......eceecececccreccecsces 108 Cand RAV Cline « sidermeeeteisaisinn 4p ioe s dae eeeneenee sh aliavoxe levered fete olateletetetoes okey ateketete 83 Gran Quivina, EXXCursiomtse 6 as-is saa olb/ekiwcbibelersie-we aie wave Cae wicle me ahs 296 Gran’ Quivira . Riins of semaine < sides cre Socteeoels eva ien:e ethvalashotoveralalsve tem ei ebecnne eal 307
Grapes ripen near glaciers in Switzerland. .........eeseeeee «since bedecienolsisvcee 195

<<<Page: 702>>>

INDEX. aay
Page. 96 208
Gray, A. Briy o:0,0,0,08,0.0,0)s/00,0,0,00,0.0109 0 v.00 tro sce sec c ee 10000 e cocc ec encciccisecicssces
GrreatsbritalnswAarOMeLe Twn ie o\s,0/0,sfo1eloisisers) v.eieie.cye)e\s¥isieixialesie alc sjejeislerolohelleisicaletelsiera
Great Britain and Ireland...... sieveiepsiestelete eVe stays le(ovesieleVs\s {sel \e\a\=Vecfalsiolatelststets<jayetele : Great Britain, Sovereign of, from Holland. .........sceeccccscccseeccs sokoleisetoieie 175 Great Egg Harbor, Fishes at....ccccccscccccccrcccccsccccssccccesscccsscsces Ane 317 Great Egg Harbor river...... is isholoaleloiefelsin steaieys dine oisisis ee eeesie reise ois.se eis sie/osiefeiaiels 88 Great: Salt Wake js..6rorewicrcvciousers BAD CSO OO OO OOD DO CHO OUGOS COOOD Omar toceee Soman Greece, Mountains in...... Saateyepeteys oversiesiere logoreateistos syeleisrelovsiers " aeevs 274 Green Creek....... SB oretaier pr alaren'ess ie sac counia aussie tea oyelaxe'el sie; siegel stoic s/eve'sis.oic ie) suenierstovers 88 Green, James, Meteorological Instruments by ...eecseeceesceecerecees stator she eveheus 19 Green Pipe-Fish...... Sy afeie fave! sYersehelesere aleseisisuisieisie avakelepaveies;ojers 591940) 8)sjeLeyeiel* aheuoistapere’s 351 Greenport, Fishes at... sccrcccceseceses adr sieh iofaiaye (atsllaheiore Tarels B sielateyehsfaxenes atehoxs susie sie 317 Greenport, Long Island. ......ccccccssccccccsseccetescens sisis\eheibn\eleieleisteleueseofe 16, 42, 88 Green River,.......6+ & ie"bilate)S'asto' wai e ca-0'siw wiaese:o:sveteeieiro(e''s) aelails (alal alsa! ohe6ia)eheieleleseie late 83
Greenwich, Observations’ ats o< s sretereaissics's eroteres o'0'e wresiaielelsiste eisleide 215, 216, 217, 218, 219 Greenwich Observatory....ee..ee0 atetretexe ofa's etsie'e “ove aYofaiataleretevaeloteioralsionejeve.e/oie sjs/eKe : 145 Gregg, Mr., on the Ruins of New Mexico. ....e.eeeeeseee atae aveteiavatafeeteteiorersetelorcts : 309 CETeINC Td OlMelalstaievecisterelavetie(ele eleie! ateles ce slelefelne/e/eevalelerulclete\e:alslalevaisverers pa taletebiede sat 44 Grin q ir PAC Mei fo cfeielstotcl coi’s etetelebiejotele’asietePatetetetareres'foletal’e afavlatat sete hao atatetetovaisletere 44 Grinnell Expedition.........s00was u sl atetarotores ALO Oe oO COCA OSARIOCOO ACH CcCun at ey ob Grinnell Expedition, instruments furnished to.......... ocscecees alovale\astalereialeatstete 16 Grossevisle; Michipan'.)iciss cilesiaiere'e's sine 'sie'e'e siscvceveses Sfefofalelatossie sshalel sraeretests S000 38 Grove’s Battery...... etstaisistoteteneietettett= stafete stetanelsietoteatetoters ave Sietopl ei elelerersieivlei sia! savers 154 Growth of the American Union during the Colonial Period, Lecture on...... na sierde 156 Grystus fasciatus, (Black Bass,) habits of.........sseesee sotelaevoletstele foto eleteteteine 289 acuinda liper MouNtAlnaus site wrasie sieieless's'e ueieitee meidiciemies a's'eiet eae ner ayeuatesoreitie ateree 84 Guadalupe Pass....... sisies'e slee Cormodar ae cetetolesls sfeie/atele'e | stele ieeies\sl sieve slefeter ne efeie's 279 Guatemala, Mountains Of i o0% 2. si leie'ees lots e'eere Siofalelsforsiseleie a aitala fet ereleilreiete c eete eles 273 Guaymas: Railroad’ from: El"Paso: to. cs cies vee te'ob's efelelesis)s/sietes s/s lorie eevee ciel ecarateys 278 Guiana s.% fie. 2% ateislaveleis qooorocIo COL Einieysierestejeis\olselel staletecvevatestera aleveoreveNctel efeterstare 45, 46 Guiana, Belief respecting Animal Poisons in........ssceseccceseces shits ctenreneite 126 Guiana, Prevailing Winds at....... Sigvelareetecei@ioneoaretcoitens ain clave rcielere were ecdidieners tere se 190 Gulfof Mexicontescpieretesics «odes Slofeteiwia,ctor\s ere olestetetetatetteterere Deteleleviavevcretelevsiateeierets aie 38 Gulf of Venice frozen........... plese sei PO HENOHONOODOOOr sistalelecistale wiseieietstol aeierae 260 Gunnison, Captalnysisisimrcls ses soe SO SOUGINC.OO ODDO cote ec eesesceeseees GO, 82, 83, 85, 86 Gustavus Adolphus, Settlement by Subjects of .........004 eile ieislee! svesielevoleynore rate sve 175 Graziani lial fis iereseteretoteante: 60! bis so e0!e.e:aarareon Bisvared oie afele tories acolelale tehconeet er enne 280 Hackensack, Fishes of the....... Be Ae OCAT MCA TeaEaare seeeceeeces 88,318 Hackley, Prof. C. W., Lectures by ......++iaiel sis olc'als eer Deena oisisielevelgtersres:6 esas 28 Hair-finned Dory........ statedevetersis evae s sieioiselelereles sielelsrelae eis SICUIOO CO OOO CHOPRA S 337 Hake from New York ......... 5 GIO DOIN Shane sissies. (els\s:e¥e eclejareyelertore’sieise ei sie : 43 Hall of Museum, Description of...... Giolareualtestereselered clevele inion eolerslsrere os cieler aielais : 41 Hallowell, Benj., Lectures by...... Biscloieie¥ersie seveesiee Sfejeieiecitatsies «1 <i0 veteotetersvere 28 Hallowell, Dr. Edward ........ Bleete eee ween Sis tente sees Sicvestntesevecie ate Seis otlsoistere 94 Hamlet, Description of Thunderstorm in....,...... SdLod'6 SICH HOO OES OBHOUOG S106 199 mlamiet; Pillects\of poison describeciiny, \3.4..'.'st bso eaaltcatns telcls’s o'slee.co stanfonstera's 130 Hampshire County, Virginia ...... syetelere\ sise'ci ciel stasfelalevaras siete; alseleie ’e/ecveiaatareets Drerers 44 Hancock, Steamer John ......... O35 OC GERI EG CASE ich CIR Rc Ee AIBC ci icici arevotcters 89
Hardsbledat ich Son cases Stalenfale ateles's a sierersiere delete saree cave ele aieniersietenn ee 347

<<<Page: 703>>>

Page. Harding, Asteroids Discovered by........ssccccccccscvscscsccvccccssesecsecces 138,139 Hare, Dr. Robert, Apparatus presented by..........+ Stlelalediciels ainvratelveleotlaincteles 69 Hare, Dr. Robert, Queries and Strictures by... .eeescesseccreccccececcsscccsees 203 Hare, Dr. Robert, his Remarks on Wise’s Observations ....cecccccccccccecccsocs 224 EVares!s iye0 sieis’s abaleietelestele Ria footers eiietetotsdis ateletee oe" etateroreree aie erslelevelezeieve,c)s ACO DOO CC 38 Harlan, “Gremerall 22 tstorelersis s'e<estenesere Sais footed diwteo (any sretawye\ave alelewlepaNeterets siviekalel 103, 106,120 Harris, Je Osatees WN Rat tethne biotetekeeve RO efetekelo to tela TevekoloreysVorlotaswkoxsteleorciotens 38,44 Plarper arid Brothers. ss joss stoic clave’ efetels @letesisieieretesiove sisielonslasainieterepiefele stoke tolalelenatele 96 Harpers’ Magazine ........ of tesletete a eforatoich olosal chow oie lekegstys io ionepeiel snelalos ancien iefahersjeciateietels 96 Harvard University......2s.00. se fale XoWwiaterexele a\feie (ala (alefaatepla oles nla leialerevensvatayoiae wexeqefele 35 LarviestsW ish ',% 1:01e% ta oar teteter loteteie a fatexoXefalaifenotas fe roxerelolons Xie sheyoisylaleysie eheteinxcisks nyeletelaisieye 338 Harvey, Prof., Seaweeds of New Jersey......... Scshcyelonsranee inlotelsbeyekels sisksiorayeteoneteielels 319 Hatch, F. W., Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, California, by........ 263 Haven, S. F., Paper on Antiquities by ........... aekafeasiokenaken leielvacists sajeheicors sje.ele 10 Hawley, Gideon, re-elected Regent...........4. sile/ eke wislajsia\cie/sioye ofslejedferevogerethaje/eroin 72 ayes, Dr. Jis, 35/0: <ia\nssie's.0'r cise ee elalegsie BCC HOOROMICOOT eaeNsie/asals sioxeieyeieiors Boe 92 Head, J. F., Natural History of Casey about Fort Ripley, by. . isinessjeisicielete 291 Health promoted by Climate of California ..........cccscccscccecs stelclas svete oni aioe 242 HTe a5) Grepid essa sejscresarovetee sloteisys\ seodon uuoKEdc su ceet erleieene sist ctelsrehs bang. 87,96 leant, General active Hx plore. cis, «s cvejeie seis se eje.0iseisieieiel ac/e\etansois siatsia\ojare soteiokers ll Heat in the Atmosphere increased by Moisture...... SENG P OO OUIC g,0)'s slajcienesielecieie 195 Eleerman’, Dr. Ave (lias-0cyers, «iss seis setsictesrers sinisiéses aistaleie sishelaistete 5y.0x5s sievons sit easte bay sfateietata 84 Hedjin, a Dromedary of the Upper Nile........ sheteelcjieicleievsietelsictetsir acl aye/alevo.cialetens 114 Heligoland, Denmark ......... obejonapoji> Sis ierabsl oialeiens) Slepajolereyoys ‘ol0) 0 eleoyexesefajsiolehstestslekebece 212 ifelsten,, Cornwall... <6: 000 Biel stecaeretsle ais oidlaco lap afefunasy ch axes sutevoverepemhehsieteh cats ateushere lecsuelecy Hencke of Driesen, Discovery of Asteroids by.......essseeeecoere ésejags chchereeroumtenere 139 ienderson,, Dr. ....«+. ai se catae chia shart sxeiene aici Sin aetcrele mere & (baie hehehe bnevese's ees aueteiteboretnoter 44 Henry III. of France, Times of.,.........$6.09 sales # Siene { 'b10,s's elejeicisjeiasiesejereieisl siete 123 elleminy, ADU sO) acess ojeinie cle o1s.0(os @icueiciseiaie\s sscersisiee:6 Rhekslesieiele aieia (Ghensielopepstoleseve Bisisie, ais 85 Henry, Prof. Gone Electrical Experiments of......eeeeeeeres slerceloielorelesieisiee.aie6 153 Henry, Prof., Fact stated to Mr. Russell Dy... eee ecceee cece cece cceeteecereeces 199 Henry, Prof., Suggestions respecting Lecture-Room .......+++++By olaye:e) sisjwle\aelatena 71 Henry, Prof., Lectures at Princeton... ..ceecececccecccscccecccecccreccccececes 62 elereford,,, Dric‘steis'es-s-cjss10.0 Sie obie eonolGavaueleie auteszelels aes aietake eiclale1se) o(etere nloxsvelcinisVereietetots 44 Efereford, Mrs; Mary ..cicc.c0e 01s 'sso cisis 6.410 te) seiere' aicleie sein siexerets bieisveveye et efevers BOC OOS 44 Herring, Habits of, Manner of Catching, & ....ccccccsccccssccrevcces nsayatoveysie ae 286 Herndon, Lieut. Wm. Lewis.......cesse00 hove'leisue ei stajeisvaele Nonoonotmoc misleeerisenerel BOO Herring, Smith...... Bia coke Soar aaia: oalatancal evalapentohaleteraicl’s ees: eevelops elses leeks isiete 318 leterandriay...'<.000 secs s aTecaverg ols: eiforeis «ielert o\loi'e/etayoNeloVotolefefe\s\ein) 0,0's staleveichayeieizheroperel(ojers 345 Heteron niger..... Sonic tai eaiels es NGhaseiexotecie sievafelelisiessloe¥e(e\< @.e.a/aueln/aleheiate sreiajejejsieiereie 43 Herschel, study of Saturn by....sccccccsecesee aclajcislcle\ci «/sleleieusiieelate ai sfeniejsieleisieiarers 145 Herschel’s Measurements of Ceres... ....seecceccsecsecssccccsccees siaiapcyefekelalatalate 138 Highfield, Nottingham...... Siaveia eioteienarersieveroheleve istelolelels nieve o:alepeiejeiajaioioieisieetelereier= oe 211 Hilgard, J. E., Magnetic Instrument by..... Nepostopsieivie.s\sere:8 ciahawuoyousrspeselsleneccrestevete os 16 Hilliard) $s Wis cccsrestcpete aveitsjaVarea e\e{eilaiole anele eheyereVohehe|s.6, 018 exeyo,ahe oy ofatelnehohean sisjeie=isiese 5 AOS hos EUS oratOuRVvier.:..s/<:e% elercialeleaieie-s e:6.0-010,201 6,4 Sis teje /aleielsheloicis 10," gi ekejalslareleis onakeisiobeioracaeemaler® 81 Hind, of London, Asteroids discovered by...... mialelawie.sin'e wie lsieyeramieiers Pap na soo AC 3 139 Hindostan, Observations in....-...sseeeeeee es OOTRCIDUTS agonmo dec bone nintazalapatels 186
Historical Society of Massachusetts, Appleton Bequest to... ..sseesseeeeeee sel sis.e 18

<<<Page: 704>>>

Page History, Sacred and Profane .......ceesesecccscccccccrcccecccsecssscsscseeees 156 Hitchcock, President............ dvcts tatevstavels nfatercheyelsmsertyesioh® sejoveyes ws aleRA site crevetetoxoys ° 94 Hog Choker (Achirus mollis)........ siolerleiclisjopatelaieia.e1 of ste jnieivrale\afeisvelefstalaleselel Siateefotaiels : 350 Holkham, Norfolk..... FECES OOS OOS O COM OR OOPS te is Lotatalectetetese rs 212 Holland, Claim of to Territory in America... ...seceesesccnccccseeccsccccses sieie 175 Holland gave sovereign to Great Britain..... Gdanusouee mfarelieveraiey oys%slate fokeciszegaeleeretole 175 Hollins, Captain......... sysicle(eyaetersis Bho o cobbb os So Coon Obeac a oe ocorn boa cadOoue 93 Holmes, Prof. :....'..:s aes tev erelsiseheiave atalstetetesisiele eveiaieea eke! arenesreits aiaysieitvecsrsnat exons eieveieere 38 Holston River, Tennessee.......00..06 ile ee iatoteratsteteyselsvelejola(sheterss; eve ieielelsysleicsicreye ape 45 RA Ore ans helaw Mis 0,5 .cyss, <:sresehow Scie) sis ovevelin'e @cisinsioresve.e evsjetchohelers ais: Sreislevas (sya eiaysiet'a iogoievoraus 82 *¢ Home,” applied to Mother Country........seeee0s sjelsicaie skotelerinieiele es)elera\sie sysiele 168 Home, Sir Everard, his Description of Stomach of Camel. .........2.006o08ie sieisie 107 onduras, Mountains: Of. jst: :ss/eie joie s:sias sisieeie s orereciste Siotesicrs ae recteisieters Ber ekevapecl skoie rays 23, Blom On Gs ae sreyeeie.@ siaieurs is slates sfefelole mfefelesioie etelefalelelsis: @ eyes! shel efelsieV iefect srelstelsatere 89 Honorary Members of the Institution...........e000¢ TOGO ODO ayeheioieva/=ielwiseieteteyeretotals 6 Hood, Mount, Oregon...........SOO ROCIO CE Wr acrereteleleeiielselevere siacievel sueleeretoletene 43 EL GS tittisra\sie svesievevons Fog oo Omaor eeorhsialci<cieieve bial: oielzaldove\olelie Sra aye areu aus onuatavoeetolecelecevene 101, 115 NACA MH SIn cerereyeie raw scaidioratsYern:a ciesieters atanieial ee pmiens acsje. sie ious ais/ois alas} e(elorsyesi be leteieeie/sleiel ¥337 House of Representatives, Special Committee of........+ s sjolsselaiesfeiesejaieieiel eis axe\eiekele 76 Raye MDE ay Eee: 06a lain eva sigi e's ane: o:a\'s esrans anevoulee. ia, Mialaslate,sa)s) da «+15, 37, 38, 44, 87, 88, 295 Efuertano Ravers. ssc cs'c.e ecaves'ere « Sianiare storeuclaieisrapiesiare SOOO OCES syaleys\eiejavererectolers sie COMED) Hudson River, Fishes and Crustacea from ..0+.000006secvecseceees naoo od eters. 16, 88 Hodson River, Settlement OMisec.ccie seisieie oisesisiersiesssie ars de Gwecesevesiots aud tsiouss atene a! aiekatene 175 HindSOMUSUD ay ACOM payers letaieles+/ciseisrelaielsieleiais traieierahe,napsles\els\eaie(aueleicassiatasteiaccis eefelats 81 PAMASOTIES) ViOVAC Chalo aieis,s\a\eie\e,ciejnate\as eis) o's sels, 01s s¥oleie!ate/e\s leis aleiohelersVo)siaiaieiois olaseis) etal sjoretere 175 PAUIN DOLL: sei ctiticics: rele. biciele oaerereis Daersictes aiselaig tie aievelel oye aig araiolotal cleleioererevevoave coos LOU 187 Humboldt, Account of Manufacture of Woorara by......... suafamialeleyalen aieveleie levels 127 Humboldt, Squall Deseribed’ by............6.-. eieiorsi oie tier of aera efeNsiajagai ateietoas esi areietors 198, 200 Famboldt,t Voyage’ of, to ‘South Americas: .2%sis Seca ccableddee ost ve cecietecee's 128, 198 PSG LOPERUME I 8is"5 "sb 5.010% & lel he eYee ad fa sot wale. ci8/h lacs nates balan e ortta ah Siete acee eine aes 86 Humidity of the Air at Greenwich............05 ais ei oie ie) cleisialeree a eneteleae case ore Sears 217 Humidity of the Air, Means of ascertaining..........2eessee svolevere. weve; +\sleferel emnevore 217 Humming Bird..... Beesteheoyesi= BO LOUp ONO OOCEO OC mheiciaver rolatarcvectarel sea Scaiteon aa anaine 45 Hump of Camel, Test of Condition of the Animal........ccccccscccsecceess atetbht 103 Hunt, Rev. Thomas R........ a ntee.o b. sta sateraverareeta bre be Raa’ Sie a areal eee 44 Hurricanes, Of Wiest Andiess.i:.; ses os:cl3ve «eiela anes STE AO CH ASIC COAO «187; 198, 199 Hurricane on the Charlesand Savannah Rivers..........-00006 wuld inifeve oletedecteleliarers 209 init hinsOngs; HUISLOLycteeges ole-s'e1se:0.0.0 cre w.sseers seis eile otee/e\s als US alalacicy sieve automates 172, 176 nttons JN Wd sieiewien.cieisie alain fais esc 6 a's foeie, Sfetolattonnterdie’s elelverers AS ANU DCD Oc sie salelefeiela: dh O4 Hydrargira diaphana............. asa ‘oTa)atalalonera ale oh eVatai eetelobote oaversiar aimee teteteteeatesee ites 343 Hydrargira flavula...........0. ACO oO Tae an OA OISO ON ONO Ho) cid Dc oct 344 Ply Omar aia: LUCIE «6:0 7s\eje0)0,afe\olsajeie)ete\ se 210 610166, 6i9\eeys, 0,0 618%, FOODS OOO CODD OEM OPIS oC 344 Eivdrarcira Multifasciatiserraterseis +> s.0,0 o's 01 e:0e's.c1s'eie o's siecle’ siaXelste saves, o's 2 a eeleiwisiese 344 Hydrophobia, Indian Remedies for .........scecsccssesccce oKaatesereve’ oovetwisie) «)efeiafelele 133 Elven cia @rbit: fie. is:2:.%1 sien iajelevete fans v0.04 «6/51 es1ele ieftehdate aaValsohisveleWevesite aisve ee apetexeeiole «+. 142, 144 Elygrometers, Principle on which) formed... . . veo.0.00 2.0.0 a:0:sieje.0 00 e1e:enedaieie Aoccb Bots 194 Ebrahim Pasha «:..<:s10s0,ox.sieoieaiets 5 SOOOCOO OT See ainclene siclonsyess ofa .o\sts iota, stoyselejsiaiere 111 Ice, performs part of an Electric........ oiae leelejalsiaieiatelsyoieseieio:4, 60,018 selezozeuleje,sjajeietegeys 227 PUA YGLO GY 30's wile /asacierece sof s.se otete, Brinfeioie0\e.8;6 a aaereree sieisisysetoie'oiajeots sy s4sioteral sjateisveeneds * 318 WERONSB a. sive sie Lin sclssine e's seleie veel Neicsiais isla a'eheis Bene coat ae snsiesivedl,d0;G05 44, 45000
Illinois Hospital, Case of Serpent Bite in.......... Siatate te) oa) 41a leleisishalaieste's laleleataeieyele 126

<<<Page: 705>>>

Page Uiliiois, Thunder Storma ine yctei steels ct od actsee aie’ 6) aiet did diaver sr sievaielete(ayalenl siole lereevaleenteroletays 201 Impatiens, or Jewel Weed, used for Serpent Poison........... cao eceecececreescl 133 [mportant to select Proper Season for Importation of the Camel......... Aereletaiorolene 120 Importation of Turkeys into England from America....ecceecceecceeccveccee aaleis 163 Improvements in Plan of Building.......--seseeeeeres sjafasisteteye iss aileleisysiclersiel> 0 71 Increase of the Museum during 1854...... pa aiaisiectotelele soiele\sfelse)efoieletsn e'e\~. wicais\ereiele 36 Independent Tartary, Camel is used for Saddle or Burden ...... sicheteteciotciersian(s ejefe!s 112 Tnvdianial crater eter seicree ners sha eave io a eiaieraoralsiaiesenieisiers avevelatatolectalayals/et sisvasloisfaleiss ioe ote 50 Indianapolis; Snow dts. s< cscs sae se ees «0s e/s's sias\(elevelleneoia';sieiehe, avejekeravatelier eLetsheve lentes bat 208 Snrdiama’, Whauander StOrwy Ud... s o/sc:oe:0/s.screlarera ee cine eiass stavolus, dale oreisioronsqeerstose Atecreveralehs 201 Haneda COMM es sye's lo o'eie. + <i0ie) o16:cctascleve Sn aio ciclo se sielelsieiiereyerate skal aaj akav era erokeresore KS Geode 99 Indian Corn, best Region for, in Europe. ......-eeeeeeee slovestarelerelelsteretelaketers selelelels 189 Indian’Gallery, Proposition to: dispose’ Off + 0's 1eis\s s/a\<1sisi0, 10/0 10'si 6/0 010) s/s/00,sleln) sie vals ela 77 Irdianoll aves ove aicse enae\ere stelse sisi oe 10) o!a/se,cinre.s a cveiaiaratoiate lets ole) sleveleiaiasslaraejere\els\ectejeleets 83 Indian Portraits, Stanley Collection of............ oer er cece csrececececeseccece . 26 Imdian Relics) ss ¢ sess es 5.5.0 ats oe eraiesvarekenelecrerens oa Lele ee Eiteabaleeciecsieta stalsseaee OseaG Indian Tribes; S€hooleratt'OM . cis:c cye.cerci ele osjcleielelesisice slesieisislalccievsieic.s: e\siclelacia(s (asia 95 Indians on the Rio Grande, Poisoned Arrows by......-eeeseseeeeees Sivicie 0 abe eins 127 Indians in California, Poisoned Arrows by .....scsssccesccccccees a eieieleVaisje\el'eleieVale 127 Indians use Venom of Serpents on ArrowS ....eec.eeerees coe ara ¢ie;e\¢e:sye leis eaeieieje.s 126 Indiam Warriors in New Mexico’. « <-./isssje/sasjelsisiess'es oi8 deicie cielesie's 50.0100 wececeeese 315 Indians; (Plot Of New MEXICANS ves else crernncetereleve's ols einloisie nlevevsie'sie' ¢0% Svaisierers Majsschetie 312 Indian Tribes in Texas, Lands donated to...........SVhalal gr oyets'esal svete stereleraierelaracheters 86 Indians, Habits of resemble those of the Nomade Arabs.....escsccccccveccsrecece 120 Indians, Remedies for Serpent Poison used by... ......eeeseeeee sisloie si sivisie elesioieVe 133 Influence of, Race ....202s...1TOO OCT OUD OOCRO NOTTS eueiein e's wia(elia/ete ioiajejeceseysieyerete 159 Influence of Seasons on Vegetation ...... soforeteieke #00) 6 8 b0/e 000, ef0(e0le9,00 ejscainiesetero\stors 235 Infusorial Earth of Monterey... 0... 20cc0sss00e0 a -b1s\e,(elninvesSisieie) 6/ciavoiaiesie\sfelston/=malete(MaOO s¢4o Inglis, Mr., Travels in Spain........... aia sretesatel sicvaliors ckeseve sialcgetelavelerer severe aie eieietels ie 195 Inoenlation in case: of Poisons) .:.\6;eia+ ies jeushae-sveysie #00 siotesecuetstocneyens syehaba(eetelietes sieje0vehe . 135 Inorganic nature, Conquest of, has been chief object, of Mam. x cjsjsieiejuienie isc: 0s.0)0.c10,0 99 TWAS OC sti:oisrarcsicsatevectorsioissaforan,oieislereavelsisietee tosses al Asia svenvotspalalastatersietesteie alsleisie ccs opsiels Oo mA AataO Instructions for observing Eclipse published...... sre efeiolestclefelmiesisiele\eiecie wie e\eeneseyeiete 17 Instruments constructed in London for the Institution......... siceieie erelasisieietetesrelieke 16 Instruments for Meteorological Observation-not furnished. .......esseeeeeceeceees 20 Intercourse between Colonies, limiited:é)s:<'sje. aici 2isieieis bejaisiaiolovicle louiaisve,e/oeieieiee sletelesersie 169 Intercommunication, facilities of .......4. SO OU ONE Ob ClO TOMO EICOAISEIOO6 DoGb00.C 168 Intoxication does not prevent effects of Rattlesnake Venom...... ois aiesserelevatsctetelsl ele 132 Introduction of camel desireable for the fleece alone... ..essecccsscccccrecccevecs 114 Invertebrata, zoceived, <...<ccidsc susan chocewnswee Sfealatele tiles: 4 o's Sielaierearseaeee ee 38 TrMGeLebreitess suaiirs ++ s vars sla, sncerghedarustelae in eae slats 6 Sel iad dee a NR Investigations in Laboratory. ..<.000csess0scessseerss bie ea) sistas selelarelsheietierseretere 18 Investigations in State Records...........00. natsleleiereteieves os eale selarseleelcisvelclererse rete 164 Iodide of potassium, use of, in Serpent Poison .......... (os 's'e sleesin'n s ajes icicle se saisie MOoemed Iodine, effectiof, on PoisOnds ss) s 6 i soci dcces b 506 babe ee one ck exciecierens slntlavalaye a terela 135
Iodine, solution of, only substance capable of neutralizing Venom of the Serpent or WO ODRT ERS cfare'e chi. CT lalooie atefalae'a''wlalae's a'snlal o dtelutas oinlee so wearer ea ce nenn ene MERI a: 133 Towa, Thunder storm mos Sseeede ciseicdlns 50558 cebaes ened ote eee 201
DO Wiel ci6' cchcraserorentelaia’a:aore ohsiaretd Hide ei de wele's' ehidlelais sGic'siela te'eichecll gd Anes 50

<<<Page: 706>>>

Page freland, Admission of, into Confederation......... aiekolsifelofels, oledelevcyalateherehejalelenevel cones 173 Ireland, Address from Congress t0....sesscesceccerecs ucteiets I ty SP are 173 Ireland, no Self-reliance felt in..........0e.000. Salatavovots's: clcvaieis loramteral erhaterenerereenoiete 161 AmiSsLORDIbpOteasteryncrisieis celal cele: cleat chats tatctnctanata(otele fete larsielatnans lo Voters co walarshevatetniobedeiaualcce 144 Island’ of Juan* Fernandez: .s «..\. sieves atialaifeh at aiaiavole/alek ov slot Sce\(olone,io'/siav/eu'e iene: oy ofonavete oh stene 45 VsthimuscofMDanieneectacic esses. eyes ssteiviss a8 s,aeWoeree weneeie ayeancieleretsstcisie cio sel eleteiscpevetoters 273 Isthmus of Darien, Expedition to the..........seee eauatanel shslstclene sheveletee evccerarele teres 93 Isthmus of*Pamamas: 2%. 4. ss/esfese sis EO PH a SE IRATE TOLL COR RERCUCISCR ROC EROPACR AC 43 Italian Manners introduced into France, ....e.ccccccsaceceres cic cticbeveyausiensyccelehelore 123 Italian Perfumers, Method of, to convey Poisons ...... LUpeioy select avelevoreloiemeeenateresue ye 123 Italy, Summers of... 0... cee enss sec cecarie'e shel oistefiois'sl svave'svenel= alaconavoharale\crexslevelcilens 189 ives icutenant: Jie Or S205 Sieh Parca ia sla ois oie se Sot averai in als ole tai ateiay'stoperefopenacieleve oe 83 Jackson, Dr. C. T., Catalogue of Minerals, &c., sealiceied bYisvetonaretsatorotorelsinvevevavchoters *338 Jacob’s Hardships from Drought and Frost.........+22seee Teterevelsisisienverets eeeeee 195 PBITSCO) cererePoranerioic cietelstalersiecclicheasnereicietsvecievene:saicteroheveicievel aefetofeVareate stele leishareleisoleleshovele ve 278 Jamaica, Cromwell’s Plan to secure Conquest of....... aiYalteitale 's tarteVanolotorletaia\etaves ronalonera 171, 172 Varnes lerevevate) ciencretecichetnve wieversien arose sele winve'ss sewicnauco S DSoObUL OOO AS Bisteevoleleveleorsialts 166 VaANTOS MN 5. aie rss eveveicac s, cjeiesrave Sitiere Steseressers Sic cueletefeletancsianets afaiatefetatsioietets fos Malsveteleie ere 176 Jamestown, Building of... 0... cccccccseccatscccncnccssaterscessssrccescssece 166 Jatpalianerierenctete vets otexers,oia\cisicisis eiceleiaeiess-cioiseseisierelterels) evelaciere Sloinielelevereneveve steletalevaneroietave=) 90 TAMANILPOCILION s.¢-0,00-e:0r00cle\einee's-o06 sisheksisnete losieiareyeleris eye ATOR Ap ocanoonhon hor S96 TATA MUO MM iereve lee sheyal cies sncvelesoism eres suave deversce a Sieralai olay ia wienenctareralueieithteloiehelectelermierre Sire 45 Jarvis, Mr., Experiments by, on Teredo, Barnacle, &c........4siehaneveie dusmrens icin sine 39 SO d OPS ays: ctroyt' a efoyetcisieser sieeve: ualetereies stots aisles ho ieatonsTolovenle Bieler s}oloveieicnsienie pieisienteie siers 91 Jefferson Fork of Missouri River........ aie(eusiiancietstaseraye eyeleisy staveinicrersevs svavelleinis alcalete 81 VETHE AC OAS Uy sepevelae syetere’ el ssicle.s/elecssisis cic ehelc’ eatereielars/olers «iw lcterers So noouadobior FPO OOUT 37 Jewel Weed, used for Serpent Poison ........eeeeaiaenloisisieicie:sieie olecetelaraielescl shal seis 133 Jewett, Proctor, and Worthington..........ceeees Brberece state sate ore ae crore aewales of 36 JewettnCaC. Notices Of Libraries. 4s secs sasisiele lees oe. cis cnrels eote Ono Gneee Pre 23 Jewett, C. C., Memorial from, withdrawn ..... lot (ete eve nee ndocnonducoden sie abeicletote 75 Jillson, Professor, Catalogue of Library of Congress ...+..++s+esees Sot berm ewentes Q93 Jose Largo, Undiamy Chief 2. 070.00. ac cece dees toeneoaies Bao a ooudce Seleveniste astern 315 Johnson, Dr. George, Statement of, respecting Poisons, ..++...++.++Rraialor wtetaeiarers 127 Johnson. Professor: sicsemjoieess o's o.acs.s:s.0 davaiaiepavegtevsie RAH AES arama Cate ira ERI TAIGO ekG 38 Johnson, Captain, Ruins visited by.....s..ssees ei aie areyeiniene TROT CORO SO OGCID Sil Johnson, John, Thanks to. <.......0008 Sieles Gare OE Sena sa elen be acelsiete sects : 318 Johnson’s Story of the Dromedary ........: esse eeeeeeeres S aioate svaleles's wieierecloraiene 110 Jornada del Muerto, or ‘* Dead Man’s Journey’’......-aria h duegats ieee Reaioerare Sieve 276 Josecito, Indian’ Chief. ..icisicicreies.0>. 0.0. alee erermintactots BSAC OCR TICOO OOO DOCOnES 315 Journal of Proceedings of the Board ........+. Mies aieinatsnelstsieisste se ceveesecseoes . 72 Juno, Discovery of the Planet... ....cssesccseseree OCOD ifals\roietateleVeNanleysifel sy ever Ae 138 JunowOrbitiolal sco a.enisee Do oe crates s Ee bisateiosactevs SOPOT OaDIG aiaksasetesevetalerete shayexerere 141 Jupiter, Planets between Mars and.........seeees By aieVallavelticistele ehateteale avers’ « SteGvetele 137 Fritters! Oxbit! OF. <5 <\1s< 2 ole ie cs: vfejelsrelelwielove' se s/o \alaisteiels/slaleis\ele ciolais'aseles)« Voices Sled seiletevens 143 Kalispe Lake ....... sfevelesinielereise Bile voe eg cael wlaletanielsysielestare/sjehiai =\e'e/slele/oiersclofe stars 81 Kamschatka......... BED ANGUS 60h 0s GEE OMe FOO OG BaD OCC EEO sfohelejetete 118 Kane, Dr. .... aesiehere Si sencustors, clekekereenetete aa a hiforeletetacainaioie:e)' sreteds 91 Pana salsiyasy wis cvsxeitescvecis: sete rcsts Bile iecetahele RSS SSC ais Rahdleeeicolerd.w:siaclera's eicsiossieje’sojeivie 86 Kansas, Exploration in, by Dr. Hoy 2... ...cccrcceccccecccssscccs sa/0 o sketesyaroielsiey was CO Kansas River...... aia atale sve ler evaio/elejeyasievelovavnereie.e elciel eis/ejel eieiesjoisleleiss(s.cleleisaisiaiala sieieis 9), COMO
ooee 211, 213
Keleoliess, Fife COOLER OOOH HOHRAT TE OTHE TERM OH EHH OE EE DEE EEE HEHE HEE DEES OOS

<<<Page: 707>>>

Page. Kendal, Mean Annual Range of Barometer at .....0sseees cece cece oetracncesecs 204 Kennerly, Dr. C. B. Rye. cesses ener eee sinctelevalinciass elava'shaysjoteyaioteccieyente akeriete shayateyvodass 83 Kennedy, Hon. John P., Secretary of Navy..ssseeeeseeeececseeeeereceeesteees 89 Kennedy, Storeship John P...cesecsseeceeseccetreccccrcccccsccccssecssrecees 89 FRenM I COLE EUs Wissere:sicieroyaietepere's Sia aseressie Pg SOOO RLIOG Cc reer aleelejstaloxelevepeqsinie!aitsefa siaeiiedl 5 DOG ae FROME wei oiatsrevefe4s/aysiallefoye's Bfotalajeiaiaieze\e, 2s sie, nioyere ae/th oj elgiel sv bere <Gja\ late aparenaiels ecleseois oejele 162 Kentucky ...scccccccccsecccscascccestesesesesencccs a eialorofeyer}evekels Bio n.eio eieienets : 43 Kepler ...s.seee Wajiahers die e/sie16. otesuss 010% $)0)0)6) 016.0) sheln\ehale/ejslels's #\s\eie afafeurctetsie:<! slepoesenttele 137 Bern, 1. Missin esis ehcissa: cr ataiate cia cisteipleneie sr eielnierats Staraisiettneale ole ataletnleletetersolelevela c 89
Kew Gardens..... ajehouevais siaheenoyeus & sentiesesayaqeeis a Joloyenpeyariate ores exets a inttarsheetette Srarcleetens 196 Key West, Florida,....+.e-sse-+ sjejeieters sve seueva reece Bieyavcctarsraietaiers viete clacesleiel Sievente fe OOsEeD.
GV. oie icuse roiese atejetoiepaisbatenesrere totes eee erec cesses er cccceseens sioisiesotessiostyoreleieve letohetese 118 [Ral nasa Mls sc/s/sie-< siceusiaersieiscteheta of depend ottnarny wel ene Freya yetaiotayssys eiesejeienehalels lexekereysieklexevecs 116 GalChita: «, sicsaseerokeioratexesorocs teresyere Sid oNUletor syalesey slaveliole fe¥etery sri alors Sicaialnlale varduarwicuslelaietde efor 118 King, Captain........6. spaewiseeeiaee siaise cevareyShovejsyovsnesiess ais icalaas ings caatoual a¥eNe’acefsis elsiaeioie 188 King of Denmark, Astronomical Journal published by............20 Stevecioroaeiers 18
King, Dr. W. S...cccccccccccccvcscssssssscees eater ceterats Sistataie aisicie’ shave aolols sielete 44 King-Fish ....eeeeeenee a eatavelal ofsishetetsjaveieieswle osleyeisolaalajara siete avoks)apoicsetefosisians oe 331 Kirgh’ses, One-humped Camel found in the .......eeceeeceececereccnecenere oes 101 Gina t lea Chote Haye iexsjesaw aia ave (ooueale:aielsye/e,avciele loose seis a's aalerartvsleyanaes ah Haielaieaiaierapajecieraietere 44 Memrtland. Wie Pave isrcle severe: o os; «1s odie arte taxeverosa te elateves eVokeTexestalereio-ccone iG: San, Biot, sl Sref oners 38, 44, 87
Wooskooskie: River w:0% 6.06010 ese cue eereiesretaete ACEO eee Gate siapoisvefststelscaiettelansteys 81 Labeo gibbosus..... aeveieleceateleiele craic Seleeiara cctnete Stat altois akexe So) cela arse cher Sie bawaade 341 Laboratory of the Institution, Investigations in........ isles 'e gis ajay atrale sameeteceeereeant. Omen PeAPOTde. «6.2 sce vie see miekerseta ef Neeeciotr eile} ofacaheieiararaio'alshalersyalate eave iaiors ioteleratonatoteronstelehene 110 Labrax lineatus (Rockfish—Striped Bass) .....+. aielers of sicle/ste shore aiaictets ot ateiccletore eters 321 Labrax mucronatus (White Perch).....eeccsees Srenesrelsievereeictersieyseial oicks acloichavereetotals 322
Vabrax rufus. :...eiacialety cco iens Eiisiw aa a edyel eaters erecealsieieiele sa swiekoterie(s rahaheteyclatacyekavepete 322 Lac-qui-Parle ..... Seuss sysiaats alajafol ca wlere olen olaterevaaheie 5s ¢eisiajeie! sevolereleiastcioueiatete creres 45 Tadrone sland’ <j\sicfo.c sxe 00 o/e.00 © eiere ins cin ein eiieuehsiete Sieeies siete saya! syatelalehenciosta oye) re s\la\os ats 89 Lafayette-Fish.. .. cece eee e cece tee e cc er ec ee eee enres sialelstshats Batayec¥stevevsienyeis cous atctete 329 Laguna ........seeeesree telefelaraare a eXeislayss@iisete\sie;rehes\ezelelofeseere eiatchevess sheverayeyess aaraeheans 83, 300 Laguna de la Puerta..... crbaiaebanebelere lai gri ye reise. otancversinde)ste uereiel sive veve's/ayeie-s elas (elelalelsloletete 3055315 Laguna de Santa Maria.....scsseececceseens Syeayala hoisietosnsrekors warete: 6 Sy cicuslaVel stereroter 276 Wake Butte des) Morts) :'..0.¢ a.visiere se NiNolesstcvateloarNaleiove cllatcnctietare vel a)ayols.<cveielohatartale slate 88 Wake Cham plain, ,<joc/ese cies cess nies eeies wie eiaelebensiecterete aieieieies <i aes ozeystonaelere(ousieXs 87 Lake Guzman, Level of......... cisvayayesdusvenes aralieyayosspexeteteners eeusy sie. eisysisqueiele sete ier tekers 3 230 Take Santa Maria, Level! of: .:. icc. «<0 2000 aSeue teens aiefelesic.e os se bio wyeieeyehetnsie sysGhaters 280 WakketShad’ tie Psa 2s s0%6 SAO CES ODOOC alan ietorseisiaitte Becton eisisyetorseieieye aie systorsieystens 287 Wedlko-WAMMEDAT OS, «, «:00:<016:00s)4 916, 6/50,0. 0500010 ao ereesatelenierots! avs © « sjeealoratete\en oyehesralels she 88 Mani berise Gasticierers/ © 0-6 09,40. c1e,0ns/s biases aus BONE 0s OU CORIO anjeleavehesions ala eetehetsians 39, 44 Lammont, Robert, of California... .....0.0ccsccccccsccsscccenes a ere lesrnereisrettavels sie Q47 Wand: Breezes; sarsieveaaisy< sre Se aya arsiapsistod Saee clots lel ereeeie sie.e/*: e/sjeisielsi« fenere aietosreterdarereievere 187 Wand: ‘Shellsisc,s <ssel alptatas) si/esis,¢ auagsaregs sieledtans Pvatoatenevels o's: eailenere enevemners alereste rete erelaisiere 45 Land Winds and Sea Winds in California..... a aietehs ie fei\e: eelstaciole B iavaleusliselevotallcche¥e aici 237 Wiad Ors AMrisist say srereceustelatarsieveia.s0seiees.es) o.ace ciao cy SParatafe’ 5 Sis sic e apenetots availeis. sia star aveleersneter ste 96 Langton, W. F ..ccccesessscccseccceces aisyersnete is, sse.a cove si Sususley slepeioivereta cree oteteteretetel | kOe ake La Place, Theory of...... Bek ois natalislevelafors ci slexsexers Was sqeyetsrenels Sele oyatorcieieren skegstsatoxe/e 144 WarPlaita.do te wae sfasierecnre Matti ais cayelelejelo/evetazeioie'en asjeieie, 40,0 hidierens ioinisia/s) sonebelexeteivielelsalalaie 37 Ka Plumas Indian Chiefs .cieicceicsres o/sieisier9,c16,0 axes,ereieseieneeeie pes /eigierenaicietsion eerecistevale'e 315

<<<Page: 708>>>

Page. HOneeVegds road ironies asa. o 22 te AN oes kl eek eee 275 Raval's' Observations on barometers =f. sete yack 2c -i ances ccan ceueeo, 204 Baw’ of Decrease of Magnetical Intensity... --<:..--0< 0's. <cces vavacasiaceimecee. 90 Law of Decrease of Temperature for Increase in Height....-.-.--..2.22. 222.22... 185 iéawrot Density and lasticity of Gases:. «2-22 dhe seeceste' woes tocs cee nce tease 184 ity end eres ote aa os ch 2 os ats Spdinim setae] Saya Seren ee Se ona Selenite ace aolee ee ae 120 Bb Se eCRCRICH OS tes 22% fous ies wor ha cee eee Oe Se ictal Suk, Sone 113 Heanor Valipot Palm from Ceylonic. .: 2... 0 scence ine -eeyteaseye eno nan ks nye'oc 39, 42 TOGO Oe) BL) a Rn Sete ee ee eee eR ee, Se Se, oe Oe a eo 38, 44 Me ARVONANTS = 22 oo ox eee 2 PL oo Med eraee Soe Satie SRC Ere Ber 2 345 IL® (Carney Bae lol Ue Ree Se Sa ee ee Me aA ee 42,44 HPCCLUTS WOGM, GESCLIpPMON Ol. Stas) 22. sos vetaceet hs saoees Reeeceooeceeensase 27,70 HBC CLUTCS i rere atthe a Set te ot Soe Sees ee aio a2 cis UN 98, 137, 147, 156, 181 Mectores during le psd. a Ao ee ee tle oS le.. oe cesysceleinere Wom te siecle 98 GO TeULEN AN SMe ees Naat eee ee Soca oS eens eee Se eee ease Bees! ee 91, 95 Hielostomus), Oolguus: (lafayette Fish). 2" «5 seSeeciastccce cancers eseeeeeeanoe 329 NEGIP SIC se etre a eran sen eee ae ons cccionwa ccc mca scics tawineelneameaice cis anecieeas 36 WEMOnWelreRIVela. sees poe ee ence ania leone nn am ee Seas Seen as ames ncaicta te 88 ALeNtOphisSiOstiVUS:.4-,2 26. da sam, sans sone docs soos ciao nc Sao sine simnn inn sac ee sece 44 Pepusanbemisia.ececeene seca seen 15) Sacto ei = sano ise miei in aoa fee ce ieeeise eam 45 IB BLO UES POU LO ie eee ates aa) oan ecinto lei statalcintmlawieelncins olen seictele = isis mitotane 275 Letter from Secretary of War on Pacific Railroad.----.---.---.---------si sieeid 95 Letter of the Secretary to the Speaker of the House...--.-.----.-----.-.-..----3 Leucosomus americanus (Dace, Wind-fish, Shiner)..------------+-+2++---------+ 341 Leuciscus pygmaeus .-------e022 22 eee eee eee n ce een cen neces cece cee cee nee 342 Level of Absorption and Condensation... .----------+ -2-+ +--+ --2--+----22 eee 996 everet: and Cromwell, Interview between... ccc ccs sone cree wesw ecccccsccce 171 Leveret’s Despatch to Governor Endicott--.-.--.-----+---------+----------+----172 WevernientMice. No0. osc cfu eos secinie ccc m See apieienew sslaasinesineinclenince sea ae 143, 145 GG WISI OER eee ce aos oe nae es sae ccnieee = sine eine cine siemens 81 Bexington; Mo. son 2c cca. ncoc coceen cciew anne cone cee cane ceeews coce nsec esecees 88 Lexington, Storeship...... ..---.----+--+ eee ene ones cece een ne cece ee cone 91 Liatris, species of, used for Serpent Poison....--.~.--------+-----------------133 GUD OIG Pee ee Sere Stale o inln ow calc slo aialalaleteyelcrelSictataters ahaa oo cescis ate tte 92 Biberty County, Gasc—soscosc. 22 sano wale ewe caine nae nine’ sninin cose en o= onieiniseimiale 44 Library, Amount expended on... ..----------+ coe eee ee nnn eee ee cece ee woes 22 Hibrary, Ditienlty in sccstee acess -<.0 5s seniiscweendsoced ones qacescveoemiantaeases OL Hibrarysot Congress) Cataloguevol 2.6 .<caje\ sake semen See ciciemwies Smeeeae close 23 Mibrary, Statistics of... 22. 2225 feces . 620 vinnie wie woesne ose ene cise e see sees coun 21, 24 dhibrary, Value of Books in... seins... 2-2.) se ainienencnninmiccins/eeenieenen= s205 case 9 Libraries in the United States, Account of New Edition of..-..-----...-.....---93 ibraniess Oircularsent: Wor. secseamais «oss asciscs soe eeaseenteeecs secces cake 398 MICHA CATONING, asta ae Siar ceete ce EA a aio c.ayd wien wine Sere eGOMeeeee ais Ems acueusewe 335 ichiaspinosas:(Spinous: Dory): a2 Seeker <2 22s eiladeds cts lscsnea ceeds coaseeneee 336 Liebig’s Explanation of the Action of Poisons ...-...-2--2-.0-e220 eee ene coon ee 129 Ligatures, Beneficial in cases of Serpent Bite .... 2.52 s.000c-2ccncce cana ceocee 132 I ThiAhOURe PORT see ase semen ae oR ee Sec lea mye ae 35 Highton oay Sante TAN CISCO: ascniis eee aka cass Doce acd aon oads Sooweess wibess 958
Mis. Doc. 24 28

<<<Page: 709>>>

Page Lightning Catchers --...--. ---2222 eens eens eee eee cree cee eee ee eee eee ee 154 Lightning, Protection from, to the City of Boston...-.-----..------------+-++-154 Miamestoneim, New MexiCOsecs se cass Se cc~ ene sole = me cere ctatmomiateina aia) eetae ree a= 316 Lineback) J.C... 5 occ e eb Sate Sace cee eee seen cows cmens sme eeees sosoeecs 38, 44 Line of the Nodes... --.-.-2-20 eno -nn = een en eee eee wane cone coon eens 141 Ling, or Lawyers, of Beaver Islands.-....-.-. -------------+-----+----------287 Lippincott, Grambo & Co...-. .----------+ ++ 22-2 eee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee 36, 96 Fuisbon aud Washington Winters‘compared ..-. ..-2)25.-oS 2 occas Coeeas we cmeeunes 196 List of Meteorological Stations and Observers.........--.-.2----------....---AT Pitter O@GlorddOss sos c sacacs ca sa cainiates clonal cela win nlaleteleiaiainl ous Seton micetnts tote eae 83 Little Lagoon, Mud Deposites ‘of -. <2. . 6.20 so. )fe ewan Jon de eee ease Sess Saee 281 MATIC LOVED jcc 4 Sooo eae tecine! seca cininaetealelaieiots aiaisniots aisle tatesitsiam tate ser eaters stare 88 MAIGilo SalGION IVOL oe oes sana elee a ate ciete ace eietalatersmtat otettatt i= ete ete semen 81 Pittle Sale vlakosos 2a sss cic car case tersiataia sels emecien oe oraretete te aie tolatel steerer craters es 85 Little Salt settlement .... .... -2. 22. nec eee foes woe nies oe cee eae eons ececee 85 Little Waupacca ...--222. --2-2 eo eens ce eee cee eee cone rene cee cee woes 88 WittlewOrth sss san. saan arcs eicie ene oot Seis cia ieleletetnini= a iotale aii atare afetehataratate miele 326 Liverpool, Lancashire ..---. .-------1-22-22 cone cone ce nee enn cee ene eee ee 21), 213 Huizard enclosed in Copal... cc s--2 cscs sce. Saimin sninie cies a Soiree eleiom etettal enema eeaniets 44 PAI ZA OS POCOMVEGs a cae eas sl eee siaamcen cccrs calclaleele at a Saeco tact taal eer 38 qlgnO PStaCAdO. 2-255 525 wose maccee tae ret eee ees delams oan aietlatvelate gene aera 83, 85 HO bOLeS EE MATOMALUS!. soccie a ncialoo tetcicte Stele = mcioee eate ee letet Setor ns atete teeta anata 332 Locke, Dr. John, Catalogue of Minerals, &c., collected by....-------.-.--.-2-367 ocal Independence, Principle Of. 2---2-25.25 entices edocs ea eeee eee eee 160 Logan, Thomas M., Meteorological Observations by..----..-...----.-----+---+-259 Lombardy, Fertility of, owing to melting snow. ......--..--------.----cece ones 189 MOHO OM Saigo oa ets hos siaiele oe injsine = nicjacions sinteperaiol aie oieln) se avaucieje oes ee eet el eat eeteen tate 33, 36 London Company, Grant of Land to\.2 Selle. Jo oc ee on actsm eee ne eee ae 166 London Society of Arts, Models, &c., from..---.-.--.---.-Ce ee ee ee 26 OI Vis aad aparara tis asaya oiata erm te ni alma = 2 m/w ialaia alarm =knimne arate ie fee tote eet atate fw ae nial tanateet 3 wong Island, Wishes Of 222). sss see eae een a ae mee eater eater oe ee 317 Longitudinal Basin of American Continent.-......----. SONS: Soe co Se 281 Long-toothed Flounder..---. ouuidiasaces cease los sa aa eee eee eee 349 s,oomis, Professor Elias; Tuécture Dy .c.o.ssscees csotesceese sos sss Seeenaeeoen 137 Poomis, Professor, Storms desermbed by .52 .-.<jja2tistels is = soon cee oe seraoeees 202, 203 arord, John, Memorial /Q2C., (OW <ccaices some nee coe esisccs « sccm ce cae Hoes 76 BORO DUO aie oa osc 6. mica are era raialiela stapa S miciai et aainiciatel= aes Seer e aim oy = air) eee 33 BUOSUAMID CIOS « <)<:2)nin. a ararsisisia af ate wae ete e lain aint eaelsie cas <a ao eee 84, 85, 256, 276 BOs Buertosde-ADG:. 5 = ogo ac sh sone dose ssieseser ccsss25+a5e sss soap odes 316 Loss by Fire in Boston under Telegraph Fire-Alarm System........-..---.-----155 EOudOUN; LOVd sae ces.sa5 oes h~.0 eS ontear ee ees 5 «12 stalin ore eae Sea eee ae eae 169 BQWISIAD A) «ome ate sec noosa cin 0) sine nila ice oleae ool «nin a1 eee Dee eee Ol OO mec Louisiana, Direction of Thunder Clouds in.--..----..--MESSI EIS SPIRE ab es 200 Powisianay Guiecoasterecac casa an) scinic cele saafaatoieln «oo nclsiomaselaaacicn leslemteeegeeteeiars 97 Lowest:Spot.on American: Continent... 5. coer joc cee ocuine cose suas castes tease 281 SUGUCISCUS so <1as see io eieeea cejen meee celmalsalaciaio~ «calesios see a nt See eee es 345 MG ey (SHUM cco Sayer erste mim neo nlm Se iaa am = = im cape ecteleiaie a alana etter ale 320 Lupa Dicantha ..... 2... -----2 222+ cee ens eens cee ee cee cee eens eee eee ee 330
Eabetia, OLbitOfs < ccc Seder) sc cclaicies tice wicieins a/c sina eens en Rate eee aee te eee 141

<<<Page: 710>>>

Page utherof Bille Asteroids discovered: DY.<cnc0.-'.< cen icinnn mise ee se BERSEe seen 139 uxor, Lead ola Cameliion Ob elisktab case saciece.e. cise, nnjajenes.e sisi aeeicispeeseneece 102 Tayon’s Travels oc< = isiecim acre epee nrie seg mienin.e eninjenm eo aaibis\nlsisle wate aah 3 106, 113, 114, 118 ynch, Dieutenantaw..B see) assem omesen se eee ees ssi aeiseenieaseeree 92, 95 MEY TIKOS aenseetaietersicta tae ster ein mebeere Sisal 5 sleuajnlm =ainie minim ice jeetnimiaie siniej Se le ee ele elie 38 Hy OR U LUN ateioe tee amen a) -alslori yam alsbemeln er iestselseni-i= ih aisseins oini,eee eieere 38, 44 Macedonia OOp-OlWal scm c.c.c6 en vsnccinee jessie cantare eine as o 5 «jserscichsam a 91 Macteely, Dientenants<<5 2 2s eo SS oo S.oo dis wccne ce Se Se teme ectyele seins = wiser gba cae 81 Mackin Cviroubs -in=:c\ sce. cs See tce ass ee aha wetepa cece ease sera ee Ss ase 284 WMackeRy Oe ols celetherigetices Sooo nach ose eRe ema ng ee tee: sie anes 44 Madagascar, (Canoe .c.scenniasacssctleisnc ac assis seein een ace yeictie eeu eivetectcleman= 43 Madi Onh Vian eee aeseen otomias occatecc ciceineotenceeteeatees sesaericereseeaaees 44 Wradisonss Wisse ase SeGe Rees foe SUE Rte oo len een es saison os emerraeits 35, 87, 88, 208 Magendie’s Experiments on Absorption..-.-......-----2+--+ e0-eee e --=129 Magnetic Apparatus lent to Arctic Expedition ...-......--.------------------92 Macnetic instruments; AGcount Of... cesec o ose oes cece ce ceo eo meer ode aaceme 16 Maoneiic Obsenvavonyecacconccesceas esse cee scmicee sae sence se eeeee ae cece 16 Magnetism, Ruhmkorff’s Apparatus... .... --2--+..ceo--92 seeeee oe0een n= 17 TM TESLAGS go ee ne Ne a en el Se! eer ee ee AE mecias 119 MMAherr yo tO MERET io =2)2.2.80,cccc cence ne acetecsaseeeetoces seseeane Seen eee 103, 114 Main Giese here cece eee fas ee A ato ts oc ae eee eee eee eee eee 47 Miamelikesseess 3-555 92 Celet Atee seca Sead ane cieee ees ce csi eee eee acess Mi TAHITI ge in OR SI ALE a NN a Nok 45, 291 Mammalia, North Huropean ...--<...--2..2c+ sees «cede eomewe coennanee7 secens 42 Wenmimaliaiote MINTOSdbiele twos cides dec ass a ee ee chee aeiaceaetes es see Sacto 291 mim alse yt) Me ete MN cs St Set at oe de Rese emoeeesasecis 7,43, 44, 46 PE MIC OONAG ts oe Sees pert oun cides! acidietaninclee letivaet detveislacataciet mater 45 Ming eve @ Gee oie oBib sue ve cect PEL Seek cree sanelee meee eee Eeer 45 Mann, Rey. Chas., on habits of a Salamander--.-...---Mieke elec ote estat dates Se elses 294 Manno Wallisimanetwic.css cas sh bode sec mileiae Seerecle bawioels athe aee micslanesirerewemhes 45 Miansneld,\Oolonelwdriks cicce soceocducciumcbecacay bocvarccne somes snes cee seeeer= 39, 45 NMansheldtOhiomesakess cok was clases sees oe ee EN rears ee ener Roce ne it anaes 4a (Miamiure Hishitobeesae ste Wt oe = ais. ox ocr oc cisinte ee ejeteie ene aibicpemoereminn easements caters 347 IMANZANDINs Sais noee etree Gi cc ccciniscociclee cbse cmeee cece moon ee seer eeereee 315 Manzanas (Character Oimhabitant’..cc ssesskeces sco se cme ces cee cee s ee eL ieee 305 Manzana. description Ofetownss..-~ seen see ooe ects et cars cert lec cemee eee oes 302 Manzanay Mountains uses: were close. Soc bac loc Sire cette eee mee cores ees mecemtnos 275 Manzanay Spanish name toniap please sec et se sinine te eae c ain eminem ete atn erate = 303 Map of, Barth-works cope ;published= ..222hoes eee emote nem eeeeatinns cea i Manrol. Eclipse: published: s2aemssatcc. cc. cece cere cocaine cata mente ae a(ceeiee 17 Manprof Solar; Hclipses by Professor Coftin’ .2 322. sco -2 eaeesecccsisacis += -ccee aeons 17 Maps. of. Mexico; MISCONStTUCtIOMOlssseo<n seis secon aeieeeitamiNciacices, saclnjees 278 Maps’to Report on Pacific Railroadececscslasaciesecieeisen Coceteves oe eo se sacelectocas 96 Miarias Pass [ui 2c cise mic ot rents lanier e ieee ane a ciel ciate aeicioe Come tei s, a's wo lerant arenes 82 Maney, Captain K. Boo. 2. am scnememente assess dseise settee sacees tetas nate 85, 86, 94 MPG COU MLSE 5, 2 cals isyc aes alae MeER PS oidirw a wie farce Stee Slee loaiai otal cle Saeed ees a 83 Marenroiounty; -Alabamaces cesar sence ca sateeacerasinlacicis sa os +e loenis se ssibe 43
Mamcopag Village teacjs-epeemetece arse erele eer s\scee sac cnciats aceles eens caaaiammees 84 Misrineplintusoriavsesices cise slo tmclece ccc sec eens seeccmetcces ccecnt pecineweeeces 7

<<<Page: 711>>>

Page.
Marion County, Missouri -... .----.-------ee eee eee eee ce ene cee eee ee ee 44 IT rT O GGG eter ore ren arn erarotere aloemareebageie reveal arminictonomintanereis leis muclele SHE pele “ie (olalmiemtmtolel= lala fatals 184 Mars and Jupiter, Planets between ..---..----PS eee et a 9 aoe Ree eee ccc 137 Marseilles, Barometrical Observations at.----. ------------3---eee eee eee ees 204 Marseilles: tar bon Or trOZen OVER: 6 Sr 4a1djerciersneictoporeloio eh fnielafeioe sjsieiees sieveinmnolayaiaiaie 260 Marshall, Lieutenant oct :<'--:conn vnc eteie satannaterese termiowicie omnia ie'ninie'sininelenmiciceian'at 85 Marsh, Hon. George P., donation from..---..-.--------+--+ ---eee 2 ones eee 45 Marsh, Hon. G. P., Lecture on the Camel .....----. ----------+ -----+-+------98 Marsh, Hon. G. P., Remarks respecting rain at Constantinople..-.---------.----189 Marryatt, Captain, Description of Hurricane by.--..------------+--+ -----+--+ 199 Marth, Asteroids discovered by----..-------+ 6-2 2-eee eee ween ee eee ene eee 139 Minnyland Stace tccs tfca toscana SASS TESTS ee Ase aN sla Saiatws Si Ss Eee r anal 48 Marysville, California -..---. ---. 0. +--+ 0-2-2 ee eee ee eee cee eee cee cee eee 43, 86 IMASRAGHUSCLER ce ce aoe ceca cate ee ee ete mages ta ale ataalerteh=ietintateie 47 Massachusetts, aid from, to sufferers at the London fire, 1666..-------.---------169 Massacre of English Traders at Amboyna ...-----------------+----+-+--------175 Massacre of Spaniards in New Mexico ...--...---.----+ ------2---+ ee ee eee 312, 313 IMGRRACKOLOL Ste barunolomeWinesereececeot tec cco selsom@es tern aiele a ele t= atepaiaas= 123 Massiliasorbib: Oli te ake ysiacinecec/<isisiqetsieee wees Samim) domicinciata ss =5 iseeamte aaeinveraeia 141, 144 MAST OCONMUEGE UNE So sosa Berna wins nde citrate ettencie emits pic = atcto elas (= s/o) teed heleleielelekalaletmtate 43 NASEOdONPBONCR scion aie scise ne oe eae wisi tele Snie ieee eictntcnnlersloiot cietein nie aeeuerata ate eintel ett 39 MA AMOLASe toe ils sais, ccnd descents aes sa om slosese a | caclslac ces setercldpe serene 87 Matates? fromiGraniQuivira’ 25. Naccsestemiccs sects ct ticisiotctastey acic’ean ete teeta 308, 311 MiaterialsitorthesO non eee eee cc c2icc whats cin amin sievaldeias ol aisiaieiataya) ankeelaieeel= 167 Matton, {Composition.andéNature of sctStin locas So temieioenier soso case sate ete ets 183 Manuty, InieutenantiM: Pisasac 6 ses ci Hostile cle cesar ascile able we, Dalclareaelsieis 38, 45, 91, 181 Minny AIS CB, NOrres) ics cc's aweaiee wartnnciecoces eh ne oulee tepals oases Serato etees 82 Mayers brantz; Memoir by; on Mitla, remains |... 2/5005 Sons anccanjsincistewincinencccee 12 Mazatlan cette Sten ees Se Sein Sodio catia tates Sacto tee craisio se isiofasens 277 MeClellan® Captain\GeorgeuB.-.occ<.asse5 occ -nctbiccersmcieemeees sacintosae 81, 82, 94, 95 MIC MOn Al dM attete ae ios ca c ecco oem ee micaictarciels CARE Stele ae swciotwiceini a asters 44 MeN air PO ee 95s 5 FIG A IS SOS on loa aclaeiennale SeGniemtierets.<.ceveiacieeiaae 38, 44 Ma Ghae-pIMeUbenantie.sentaoaoccesracewwrepctoepeceerciselas aerate coe: <o.eia ee eiseee 44,90, 91 Meacham, Jas., motion to admit Reporters.........-------------+----------72 Meacham, Jas., Report of, on Distribution of Income presented...-.--.---------Ue Meacham; 'Jas!; Resolution on Wibrary jo. 1.2020 oscraty sean ose oa ~ comcinneisinnisin 73 Meacham, Jas., Resolution on Library Committee....-...---.--------------+-73 Mean Temperature calculated by table... ~~. 06 o0sees nn cece coe nesereensi anes 234 Mean Diurnal Variation of Temperature at Greenwich..---..----.-----joseegeee 215 of the weight of water in a cubic foot of air at Greenwich... 215
of the dew-point at Greenwich...-.-OnE eaUee ceedo none 216
of dryness at'Greenwich(ccn-. 220 -jenni occa pniniaenininy 216
of the humidity of the air at Greenwich...-..---.-------217
of the cloudiness of the air at Greenwich.---.---.-------217
of the weight of a cubie foot of air at Greenwich ----.---217
of atmospheric pressure at Greenwich ...---...------+---218
of the pressure of the wind at Greenwich ...--..--------219
Of ‘temperature at Bombay: <. 1 s<2eccosciscee a eteceieem =e 219
of tension of vapor at Bombay......---...---. ++ Seiteinte'> 219

<<<Page: 712>>>

Page Mean Diurnal Variation of the barometer at Bombay..---...... eS aul haem ee aw A 220 of the temperature of the air at Philadelphia.....--...... 220 of the dew-point at Philadelphia.......-.-.......-..----221
of dryness ah; Piiladelphite secs sat tu ln/oin) foie! olae eee 221 of the calculated force of vapor at Philadelphia. ......---222 of atmospheric pressure at Philadelphia... --........22.. 229 of the force of wind at Philadelphia ......---. Sontisestente 223 of the sky covered by clouds at Philadelphia.----..... 2... 993 Mecca, Sacred Veil carried to by the Camel .....-. 02-22. .s2060--+ eee see bic 4 115
Mechanics: Institutes, CHICHGO\ Sts oepcnjeisictlniars Seis ee ata Biola ego inelepeiniainis oe Seco 3 Mechanics institute: uecturasifor....-226. bo scce «ce eee couiseigemeene tote bens 28 Medicinal Plants, discovered by Neapolitan Naturalist ...-..------.--..----. 2... 170 IMGAI CINE RIVET. «ces /areyors eae l=iwinim. im a,a\0)n\ = mw. svinini= sim ie = le eimieiw aiiwinim alamo sale Eee laine 81 Meeting of the Board of Regents January 3, 1855 ......-..-.-...-.-----------72 January 12; (S55 come nesee cceseseee secre 72 January: IS) L855 22cc cee ccccetesees seca ase ee 74 January 15; 156 eisecs eo sca esse etre eaese 75 JANUALY, Li, LOO. caissceje cemoatceeeaces seer aee 76 BebruaryelO) Webby... 220 sa sc55 coco es eter eos V7 Hebraaryel 7; 1859: sao0.60<5 ss cease aaeamecaencs V7 Mebruany 24; 1600) stereo acini seis vaasoee ee ees CHA Mehemet Ali....--Selncseeaeiswacsasesene sss thor sewences anes ajceeeeeee eee lil Meigs, Captain M. C., Specimens of Building Material selected by .....----.---18 Melanunaibyomma, (Mud ishi)ecincccsss cam haceae sasndsne sa siassecempecaceoscer 342 Membersiex0ficv0vOlet Oey MIS GOUGO)s 2.5, <je/s1= se cccl ae cece ig ot cone ome ateerecs eee 6 Memorial:irom,@: C. Jewett withdrawn=-..,-=---:cosssesse sss os escs noscese one 75 Memorial tromidohn Word 4-2) s-c<.<niskeoss sac eeceieececs cine cesceecweae ne nee 76 DECENT Paid 5 ores gtd cise welaisiciju senna ay sp) aneioganempeleaim = cena eleros eee aieail see 90 Meno pomaseeriste sis sso) sisiysicwiaveicninys eisresia sui none colon mio aeieele gestae eee 45 Meridionalélmstruments;,introduction Of .<.2.0,.<-<<2<cq-<ice cin olscicciemisemasciscics 145 Megan d Glo seUmanesyete | 22). was sais serie siajaicin ais winisle cle win aicisio ein sine microg aera 304 Miiesayd ein aicee eat ere iai= main ote w asin: o aiwicicd o.siwininimilajainie= leat nicinini= ofeiaieinyais sie @eine = 187 Mesast or soandstonepneNew, MexiG0..2~<c<.se aeqsstee once ainwiemiel c'e'si0je la cineca 299 MiescalerovApachesteseece a. 252 Sate ciia=hajecsatiacemam|aame erence aise ie iaeeels 304 Metis) Orbit.of ..2/s22\062 BS Wi a clctie tila denims aa se peemener Sa) ineh ae cee 141 Meteorological Instruments cannot be furnished........---.---.---------------20 Meteerological: Materials,;Description of .-=-.. 2. <2<.--52i ---2=-coseseeremerl 20 Meteorological Observations at Sacramento, Cal........-.-----------------259, 260, 261 Meteorological Reductions by Prof. Coffin,:....--<-.-----=< ----s-seeeen-s0--20 Meteorological Stations and Observers ..--..--------------------------------AT Meteorological System of New York University...-----.----------------------ol Meteorological Tables --..-------189, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213, 215, 216, 217, 218, 219, 220,
221, 222, 223, 232, 233, 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 239, 240, 241, 244, 245, 247, 249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255, 256, 257, 258, 259, 261, 264, 265, 266, 267, 268, 269, 270, 271.
WIBTEREO IOS wr Stace oe eicis seed gaa alain, Si simsalinlmeiaimiogiig ae 19, 47, 181, 224, 231, 259, 263 Meteorology, Russell’s Lectures on ...---. ---. ----2-02 e202 eee eee ee eee eee 181 Meteorite, remarkable one presented by Lieutenant Couch -..------------------15
Meteorites|-Analysis: of, by Drei Smitha oae ancl siz Sei wins a5 me ae emmie = met anni 18

<<<Page: 713>>>

Page
Moteors at:San Prancisco Lede o_o. oe. nc aces sectee soueneseecnnees taeesn 253 Metropolitan Mechanics’ Institute, School of Design.....----.------------.----26 Mexican Boundary; Commissione-20 ccs se cocina = sa-'a ses eeeies Soa ciasacoes 37, 80, 96 MGXICO sas 5 2O tae clot en See le oe ele nic o!eiinle aeina| aleinm isin ainiaveminin eteicieincie twa teeiers 38, 45 Mexico, Exploration of, by Lieutenant Couch .-:-.-<--2---ssssecose+csce-ccene 15, 86 Mexico, separated from rest of North America by an Ocean ..........--.-.-.---280 Moezqult Prec eeee oes Cale aa aon aa ea temclaiaee se eased am tecd ace cee 118, 281 Michicanyehiseere cae cee erase) ce terecwaniaiss s hescaye sala ses sisie sae eaten sees 50 Michigan Minerals, fromias os. tse ie cisccte Os ae vce memleleate cao ejcinyein a= ais oe =iseinlacies #338 Michigan'State Agricultural Society ‘2. 2222s 122206 w onic se 2a pewene sede covajdosess 30 Michigan) Zoology Ofssscsaa dana.s cnc.o snenla maim oiniaiswinl Semin wee 0.s-in\< = c'njniaie'slauie 2 38 Mirchloralciontenant: 2as, je Sisreminns, od copa ctstenss shea soeteusle ie sel sissies 80 Michoa¢an.. . sj iseceserecc cee Saeaeacie av aiqo sissies =o asain eereaeteisti) = eaevemee 278 Microscope, Hontana claimed Invention Of... <<< 55, st0-.2<<.<so—ne'a nico sjoienielolesieteisine 130 Microscope made by Mr. Spencer, Account, of. ..2.--c-0,c200 socees chee cess cece 26 MNETOSCOpIC PHONG -& afc. acs st hot cee a aeieetie Ae eae des ecg en eae ee ee 97 Milianeh, Expedition to .-.....--fee ain eee Ake ee ete maa areaie epee 105 Muli of the Camel 212. coc cissemin ces wack yincae einnoenjs scien simone eeieem.csencaee 114 Mi ORGLy Og ta a5. oy ata see Gin celeste Sash ceaie merece an ace oe oe ee 81 Miler MAUR 2. soe ccs cc cw teenie ain'so ae paas\esneise Ss 6 snajacisnieiaccer memes sisines 187 MSD UR Peet iano, ni aissie ocalt acca oaloS mis is occas eines ati ai ett ete aataeie ae een eae 93 Mil wate: WAS oa. she omeicte tre os cee acess tama ceisecaice toe gecmecie ame seenion: cere 87 Milwaukie, Wis., Curve of Temperature and Pressure for ......--.---.---------206 MGI D POS Sata So Ghia os. a feele acces Raa wceaiov wace tens ces ace eae es aa eseen eee 276 Mmoral Acids.incises,of Serpent BitO <<... ociecs casnecjenb ames dan sar aipsceee 132 Mineral Landsiin Michigan .c'<-.'205 ssecedes oncn cmap see ond paes enue sesimenloee #33
Mineralsimeceivedycc 525. oi dceogasccmes sccde<eacsedeseseasnen acer oe eee 39, 45 Minerals, Investigations relative to, by Dr. Smith....-...-...0-2/5 s2-----0---18 Mineralsireceivied i522: atelaec deca so. cared sac et ocn cena wet eseerecsssenaes 39 Minnig connected with Rain’ 25.2«<..n.cc0~ cece-chs sc nonted Sete stews. ede soe 243 Ministre des onts.eb ChauesteB...c20 2.5. sooscs once cece eetece codeasjenes sees 161 Mann eR Olah ctiaceiesce ue coc saek sos enone ona wenn een eee ee ears 38, 39, 45, 51 Minnesoin Hishorlal, SOU1CtY «0 <20=->.os0c.0ces cee cosa neeconateee acess creaometee 66 Ponnesota, Natural Mistony ofp ~c 5. .cssmescioena-eae cuesion se ss-. casement 291 Minnesota, Mines in @alitornia saison coo oee.s ce ate san oer nee oon ooo eecaee 44 DNDN 2 (asd Sie estos i IS nancies Biook amrcieey eee e = Sais, <nacioene scree 102 LUTE SS See ee See ee ARN SR ng Eh ea etre Bea 186 Miscellaneous Correspondence on Natural History..---.----...-.--..-------fs 282 Missionaries in South America, Account of Poison by ...---.-.----.-------+---127 Missionary to East Indies, Account of Poison by.-.----. ---e2e0 coos caee cece cnee 127 MirssIOn Of Manet esih aS arom nde ciceeiydoe iceeeetns o-cac setcltae tener 98 Missions am New MOxmMeQe. =. 6.0.22. scmaun nsueetneouee vos ccceee es cesar rane 312 DA TST 1) aR SE 1 2 oan Sd Oe, RE ee 38, 39, 46, 49 NHSSISSIDOT; BCOAMOD a seme wisn a coe ie ee ne ee ne oe antcnts Sebe aoe eee Si 1 TE ERR A eee". a an RR eae AAT, ae, (6 Whe DE 2 MAE Ree Hh 37, 38, 44, 50 Bhissours, exploration in} py wor. Hoy... ...5.cscncee scos acck tosses sess cane ee 15 Missouri River’ .2 = s<sce tceeecocec ee ote 2 2 SEE EE re ee 81, 82 Mists, Rain, Storms, Clouds, at San Francisco..-2...-<..c.---. eck ee eee 243, 248
Misty Weather, Table of at San Francisco. ...2.2 .cece cons ence ccce'uccn cece cece 249

<<<Page: 714>>>

Page. Mitchill, Doctor, Fish Dé&cribed by------.---------+ --200 cence e cere ee seen 347 Mitchell, Professor, Explanation of Storms by ..--------------------+--+ -+----: 199, 213 Mitla, Mexico, Ancient Remains at...-...--------+--+ -----+ e225 eeee eee eee eee 1} Mobile, Alabama... ---.----2-2-2225 cone cee cee ent cnn ne cere eee cee eeeee 45, 46 Model of Madagascar Canoe .-....-------s+ 222 222 eee e eee eee eee eer eee Al Mode of Life of Indians modified by Introduction of the Camel.-.---.--..-------126 Models Presented by Professor Wilson .-.. .-------------+ -----+ +--+ -0+-----26 MQ Gad OR Rc jcocise<se 2 0c cece ornn sn ocean teers =f 4aeie = =plesia= a= = ciqernise ace Gi sinenls 111 Mphammeds Cradition-relabive:tO-..c <-scainessasm am min een lame wine minwiniae eis tes 115 Mohinvewhivertearac sae ee ceeios Sasa uie cecics eecne ose tome hiss tines aaaeocee 37, 84, 85 MoisiarelinyAir Increases Gabe cccsca case sees okie cinoma cece s memes) nme sens 195. Moisture of Atmosphere Unfavorable to Camel. .--.---..------+----------+--+--117 Moisture, Lime ots Maximum. ccclosco cca 20sec cctools bee posieecmerme aie aemase 216 Molasses, Investigations Respecting, by Dr. Smith..-.-Oi nc a a tee 18 MEOIASROSPROIN bite cok. eoseieionia Soka elses casas shee gaan ae om oes ey bar Ee tease 330 Mio llhausen; Eis Bs 4. os sec'scsoesccetiespe setoes Soe S ak ceesieecece a5 cott oseiaee 83 Monge, General Marcy, Remarks of Respecting Cavalry...-...-..-..---.-------122 MONS eens Masta eciseiene minis sopacine eseste ns seebetit= eae cee te eeueeene elena scene 39 IMONTOVIS Ate Seciscie ct atiacie nes cecil see esses So wioccckinnose tines hates soph eae 93 INTOMLOTO Ve ece a sates ae ee win amination we ee So cie w oaieeeivioee'= sm sores acin=ree 39, 43, 45, 87 Montgomery.s expedition: to Canada... .-.. .1c.c0ces nese cnese eneces ecb eeuissects 174 Monte alesem reais cea see as teense aaeies = = siecicteeicsse ca pee ose se Cee peetee 87 MIOOTO NE Wie Bisse ai sc sees cin cich Beanies eres ccianc sme depeiem sa ceciep anion = eens 45 Morfit, Doctor J. C., Experiments with Rattlesnakes.....--..---------Wi aN 132 NormonGgSeblleMents oct n accel nM tessa ecm ele ese sipmmecas se tavsesqs cen noearece 85 Morag Oapialitosaciec cts =icmeare ecg Homa nsia Sa Seis a eerayoisioee: a sleminwilss seis ersinsieiee 83 VIO TTIS ss ELOLeSSOL Os gWiceee ssc sc iaisicio ce Sak Scale tian cae nameinais aeiione eeatresoetees 45 WOO COCO ste cieciomicccseinwet aan ice Selene emae oe caicein sane Son coamewnesletaerseatsaes 101, 112 Wang Ceo moll banuOly =< a0: seeiatreceisca ee osc ie waee(tmnisacreinseiosl smismiciciac oe ee 115 MGIRO WAP OCEOGRIAINOS << sicieiniarene Se ccmeles cccces ccc cceuiebss ceweadseuek saeeee 91 Morton sswemarks Respecting the, Work:0f.--.<. 2.002. ecewtics cecelnews ceobeeece 9 Mes Wild MOUNTING OL wcau 6 26r5tewiecd soe techoeeeelscemshe ce cecccneacee cee 273 Mosquitos Ine MinnesOtiis< <2 <5 me emieine ceeeesb ects sacamelesease oe S02 setts 293 Moss BunkernGreat usefor Manure:. =<... iS Se Sl week Saas 347 Motion ofathe Nodestotethe Planets: «2: <2 scccss.0e sic aacies cesces ceesececseeeer 142 Motor unction of Wlectricity<2-:=---2s00sssscsss2scsce505500s5sleeeeoas vatere 154 Mountain Camel; essonswhy so called: -<-22 222 s2522 22202 Woe Seow. wie 113 Mountain Ranges, Influence of upon Civilization...--. -------------------------170, 17] Mountains’ between Bl Pasovand California: 2222 s2222220-242-ss25eeeths> ccs 2-02 27¢ Mountains, Character of, West of Pecos River.--.-.--.----------------+ -------271 Mountains, Relations betweeneosencss soncs2 ohce sees eae ce wae ee se eee setae aisles Q74 Mount Ararat, Annual Sermon Preached at..-------.----++----e-e 222 +22 2° 114 NOUNLEDInb lO eee ae Size sead Oe Ms SEP eetocie s <e.clele eeletetn tale 251 Moyle, Mr., Fact stated by, Respecting Snow..---.---------.----+ -----+---213 VETIGNMIShiae te eee ie oe ee NE fot, e cho s See see eameeaises.c ce cicien a eee cisiatels 342 Mugil Albula, (White Mullet). ...-...---------20-e2co nner cece ee cee cere cree 339 Mules in Captain Stansbury’s Pe seetitions travelled two Days without Food or yeas Ae ety date Tee OE a na a cae Sa otis acai heen tayaraictete 109

<<<Page: 715>>>

Page Mounicipal Telegraph s/s seeemeeiesee ew eeesess ea EE a ket 149 Museum, Additions toro eee ee ae Ea ea Q5 Museum, Character‘and Valuetofes22iars'fetae crcl ee ee 9 Museum, Donations to: duringsle54> 22.4 seta cesar ed aceeeseee ns Ee ae 42 Mnsenm, Object’ of. jsosn eee ete et shale’ elaterat iat aswlata ataraialnlarnar ke MEE al ERIS) fone 25 Music Copyrights 20-2 cen hae te 2 tees ie asad 2 oe 23 Mustelue Canis, (Hound Fish; Dog Shari) 20% 2-022 2'C EL ee *337 My School and Schoolmasters, Hugh Miller's Work...--...--. 2-22. .2--2 22-22 187 Namos of Fishes,Great ‘Diversity inode sho sesdtqo sn os ee 317 Napoleon; Camels employed by. jess 3.35. sseee tet idesaensedanadrsseeae te 118 ational, [aatittte: <2. .2..sss0reqocleceras eeseesets oss. ee ek 36 Natural History Apparatus, best ever taken to Sea.....-.....--...e--ecee eee 89 Natural History,-Correspondencs. on z2~s-<20026sec%rectaseerd gna Pk SUED 282 Natural History of Beaver Islands; Mich: ..0222..2.1.2...J2es som 282 Natural History of the Country about Fort Ripley........---. 2222 eseeocc cece 291 Natural History, Specimens Collected by Lieutenant Couch......--.-----------15 Natural History: Society: csi co220<sc8 102. SR eal Paver els, Laie 35 “Nature and Course of Storms,” by Mr. Thom.......-----.----seccee cece coos 190 Nature and-Cure-of -the Bite vf Serpents: <<< s22e28ss 00t604 Seda seeceteces dees 123 Nei a NAMIBIA SS cect sot ant Sa cee occas eile alkene aoa Sse ee ee 17,35: Mavicnal ObservatOry i. soca enede devin colon hawedae ds Mees WA ue iE as 30, 36, 145 Hayao Conntry, Reims an: J 2 cane ceheasonesueiadd ees pete oucsan cau 311 Naval Astronomical Expedition to Chile: .5.3\<<<:e<en.ccmede sews cecsiseaaqoou ste 90, 96 Neapolitan Naturalists, Medicinal Plants discovered by.....---.--------+--+--170 GW DEITY WDE. wc, Siicn Sapddat cawaancceile Raa scrues ok cea capes oe. ee Ae 38, 45 GN BAS MA thee ex cic Daisies seri 4cccseminan mines asamecs dios naweeie nels ae eee ee 51, 82 Webular Hy pothesis..-5.0'icine dace ne acccnin won easemmces sececel etal haere 144 Wedia vine Camels {r6itcccocics dscclcteina wd Hse so sccuwcisedndatedie ae [33 ING milsad, Paeh HOE cicins ich ee ewe ccincce uch bis oeasa Ao Le ee 105 Weemrico, Indian. Ohiel.<.:.'5<--accc-cewbacomacdoceccnamecceeeeee See. Suekee 315 Neighbors, Maj OT = f2c35, cca ot oe ee cee wee ace a cae ts ak 86 DIBOSNGE § cess Pleo sated ae Saree icicee aan eee ee ee 85 DGMOdIs Try Phnom AshOt stn onicninn Sieccls wee cee acetone see eS toe ae 43 Nettle used by Cherokees for Serpent Poison......------ee--.eeeees cece eeeeee 133 Brew Rnglang) oo. © acho ooo n case Sole eck ease so Ot. Le 166 New England Confederacy sca5 6602 cemcee sce ccese eee nee cea ee RE eee 170, 176 Newtneland, Dwight’s Gistory Of 422... .0sc-20-0 gatmetas «-s~ seegeeeabasece 196 New England, Thunder Storm in...-.-.---o-cseetedgencee-ecee ed Se ae 201 NeW Mampenire oon 222. wasn eos cee eine. cqncw stamens’ Sowa cn atiomee ase 47 VOW EAV ON eres Moc. tan Sma wee sacar cass cece ccs dente eee ee 35 New, Haven, ‘Stormuan 1809 at.2os onsk ee. oe ee Oe 200 ING WU dethey 0c sees cS Sea ee ee 38, 39, 48, 88 New, Jersey, Descriptiomot) Coast Of s. 2222 200 2e soe se cnas oveeds aaen once Bees 318 New Jersey, Exploration on Coast of, by @Profeskorpeaind:.... «oct oneaueoeoasceses 16 Newierdoy. fishes Ol oe eens. Jo oS Rs ae MS a ee 317 New iJ ersey Zine Company ere 2 0 ofan te cote e awene Gace ie eee 39 Wow Leonys 4280s eet ee eee: ack ete, ol ie te ee 87 INGWAMOXIGO! +5 ook: aces cna ea een uno te OL ee 38, 39, 44, 45, 46
New Mexico, Character of Inhabitants of...............-----.BE OE so 2a 295, 303
MES peat

<<<Page: 716>>>

Page
New; Mexico7Greseis Description, ofRuins in;..2-. 20... 2cs.6 2 sete eee eee 309 New: Mexico,;Major:Carleton’s Excursion In: 2-02 --------so cjeninroteeeeeese 296 Now; Mexico; Reponbioh SUnveys Mocs soc ccssiston oc satinsmanc-eepsace.aaaeeete 96 ewe MoxiconMountnmsan. .2566 Ace. Sea coer ehciee ease Secs ccles eka cic sca. ees 277 Nowa Orleanseeerp sete scs cite ooh See teen eM ae oe acid cas ctl sae 35, 36, 46 New Orleans:Academy.of Natural Sciences. << 2--<2c nocc.cc2-eee scence ences 35 New Orleans, Shell Road at....-..----...-See boone tetas Jats setts efits 8 299 WMezebercespbrall,. ssios os ene chareaee et cs Ge ccees = SRe omere eed salon ance teases 81 Newphivers Periodical. Killing and, Drying of..,..2.5 Jet priscenigche-fa-siciatona 281 NewaSpeciestot Mammals,, &¢s2s<22}o 5. sceheeeteweeee Adee eee atasee be oe hee 94,95 New Wied, Texas, Curve of Temperature and Pressure for...-..--..----------206 » Wew-Wied,, Toxas; Temperature ftesss.< 002s sscnee en's oujeee she -a<ee see aeees 208 NewRYOrk 222 Sas5<-< 5 StS Mercere aaa cee caer amen emeecaseae ees 35, 36, 38, 47, 48 INeWAMOTK oD At shy soe crc sere oe ai sein Sere ie els eco cow ne mineieiae Stepaearest ce steeper 349 New Mork Lyceum-of. Natural History. ..2005-00 sceees ances seaigee ocala sas 35 INGw Worle Solefishtt ga 2 ots use Meeincye he cence se meee ace asecincea tesa sou 390 News Vorki State Dibraty scccs soc oo cie.cens seco os ce Sacco cicees toe seciseoniscme 35 INewaVork whe mperaturenau seer seein seine iscals sorialn a cn cise-wesiesce se ceaseless 209 NOWAY OTK binindery Storm, iN... 5 iGjceia.se eisai te saaw te one gue Se ausisiastesoeeis 201 Neéw York University, Meteorological System.......--..---------------+ s=--< 51 Nicaragua eV olcanic) Cones: Of cs-2-once on asia ee ete ace Siewlalmei rele tote soe 273 Nicotine destroys Action of the Heart.-..-.-----Saisie lo) eisiniosiaieminie sw eo nine aeseer 129 Ne DUT yoy ee rete per re eecie vee ciel eile lassie winnie = See eremmclee eerie once smisicute mrs 162 NinthyAnnual Session: of the Board of Regents...... ..2+-222-2. pone as.cciaseesee 72 INTIS EB NO VO ONO dies ene ee eee a ici 6 Sen eri Sale se Seen eet ne ae ae 114 Nupratelat, Silver'in.casos.of Serpent Bite .. 2. 222. ces .o02dewscoss vececeseeece 132, 135 IN @cfo een eee gee hs en ee oe teat ons Ne O82 5 Seah area eet nee 89 GEOR Ra MS 5 ara ease Aae isa. su pence ua Sens aeene se oes Ps oscactmesees 36 WNGMMAaNs CONGUERUR)2 sop2 0's oss seionaloan Son cials wisineeysiowicinre eto macioleceiciciadac,c\e neater 161 Northebritain.Summent, Sea-breeze) Of ..c\s2.c0c occ. se wie ciepsmciepemnjeete ooee. ciao nese 187 NOTED UB ritone eae EM Ses scm oleate paeceeeis ea sssdceeebe acum ataatianteviee aus 162 INOLtIC aroling, Soeee ete cc iSccs se acs Sod teiseaedctces eccicen ceetetieat seeeec eee 38, 39, 49 INOEGHe In BarraCudaweeses, osciatiste sido wccsensiatis Gaeisicsalt vaio selcinas Ses aeee 326 Northern Route CO CHERPACHI Cs... ccm ceiccins Jccess sboees etna tedsca. ee ecee eee 80 Noxthern Wisconsin; Exploration Of... <-j\ecmesasceseSee netccecccssmasece eaee 88 INOrthers sD escription. Ofaeease ss. 2.<scccesasecscece sls nc Sema actrenscéieic Seceaenee 203 Worthers)ineNew Mexico cect s=/scec. oo acccyenin © cleme semana tsiSac-ecceeeeee anne 306 Northman, America not Meant/for the Home of .--..2..-..--22-00 dee tectes coos 158 Naonway,poemperavutedns samen. o nine, sciscjaee aye ora o posse eaeeeer She eicis 195 INGima yea GS WINGS: Of. 2 cseme pyc cocine ceierstnie estieGislesn este etecwion= >= Seis 197 Notices of Public Libraries in the United States (new edition) ...-........-..----. 23, 398 INGVEAD COU Bscincs% cesses aiete ee inciaisc we ctsan seis sesstas Jamiel nies ecwis'asice nye 47 Nova Scotia to be Admitted into the Confederation ...-..-------..-------------17 INWOVONUGON cet asso minsine ee sie Co eeiee eis ao on 4 a mines reece eta = «oso cme elcnisis 277 @asesrorthe Mesert without: the Camellsscc.-c-cs-cceccacecscs sess soe see emteces = 101 Observations at the Smithsonian MnswWhuiOn =< -sqcies cocss cose. ene. ones cece as en 205 Observatory. National: sce ococe sects sia aicsinia ac! swnleinie ohm clee = one nc eee v'nimniaie 35 Obsenvatony, ol hile Se sec ece ce eete te eserec acicieininn cies Cenc oso cieeeminaaatieesinle 35
Observatory in Washington, Catalogues of Stars made at..---------------------145

<<<Page: 717>>>

Page Ocean, Depths of. -2=222 2288se cise sh ss Sess Se ee Se 91 Officers ‘of the Tostitution:: .tey sss i.e sree ss ee ee a ee ee 5 Oglethorpe’s Settlement of Georgia»... 22s. 2222 2h22 SEM Se ae 166 ORO: . na sincd ee seco w acme eea sess Ses l2s sae eh bee eae ee ae ee 38, 49, 50 Ohio Board of Agriculture che oc lo b2s. sebaseeesel scbures eee eaeteee ee Ree 35 @hio, Thinder:Storm anseesss. sss. cs s2 esse Ee Se es 201 Oiljin cases of Serpent Bite. s... 2225 2228 cde ce sae sas weitere ee ede eee 132 Ojyibwas, Facts Respecting Languagovof, ...-25'/. cee use aes ie ees ee 14 Olbers, Astronomical Discoveries by= ==: 2.2455 J) 2eUeL a. Ag poe Los 138, 139, 140, 141 Olmsted, ProfD:,; Memoir by, onAurora: Borealissss2ceses sees eeseee aoc Soe 12 OMMPpid. cscs ss sec ceases aceiees OL AUST, ie ecko hee 81, 82 @ology,. Work‘on, by Dr! Brewers2252 2222s Seas oases sate eee 42 Opalvor Mexico sss sco sss se sete ss eae e a Naa se tds 5 a5 MeFi 39, 45 Ophibolus’Getnlus):. ffs fe hte sees se seers se ben s2eesacindSa scncieesareeee. 43 Ophidium’ Marsinatum: -2.2 2652 s2essts 2 ss Sees SR eee 43, 351 Opium, acts On thé “Brain 222s¢252 12 2252222 kee heed Bee seie dae ews reel HE ae 129 Opium given to'Camels ‘by Belooches:’..:2:2. 2ce22te2252 4222 cases bees Pe 108 OLANGe ULCER Gs oc ack ks sec ee en teh canes Coes Dee e te Lee eee wells SR CHE AS 196 Orange and Banana in Region of Pine-Trees..-...-. 202.0202 ence eee eee eons nee 278 Orbtsiol the Planeta: 222 2225. 2042 1. Schl a ee ee 140, 141 Ore from Tetilla Peaks; New Mexico: tas t6ses. 225452 oes OR eee 316 Oregon, Winds ats. -25 22 et te Detects ase ee ee eS ee 197 Orenburgs 224525 secs cas cicdee teste hee Soe heh eo MR Eee eee che aed ei eee 118 Orfila, Poisons Deseribed ‘by. 2225222220. £22. Pe hee 135 Organic Nature not fully developed by Man... ..--...---. 22+ ---ee eee eee eee 98 Orography se scsi s Sl Sas hack Seek cans Soe eee ee ee REE Son eee 273, 281 Ortyx Virginianus. 225 coece Joke. coc noe ese88 Gt ot 43 OBI 0 Eo Ste Ss oS st bs bh Soe SSSR See ees Ne et ee ee 85 Oshkosh; WisGOnsine ==. .c2 22 ot hock oe ewes eee Sette we ee 88 Osler’s Selfregisterme Anemometer .2ls::52 5252225225" fae See 219 Ostrich called by Arabs:the Camel Bird.: ..2 2.2025 scseubeseeel vies ck owe etek 103 Otolithus Regalis; (Wealefish) 22532224 c2hs hss ssessees eee ees ee ese SS 329 Ottawa, Dlinois2.2. 22232522 55252.082 Fe ee ee ae sss 2. 44 Owen, Orie .s. sch abs ck SSs eesce th 2 oae see Sees Seas ae ena 38, 43 Owen, Dr. D. D., Catalogue of Geological Specimens collected by..---..----.---+ 393 Owens sProfs Ree Sssc-sheee owe baie ce ee oe See eee ees ois cece eee 45 Oxtord, Mississippi, Tomiperature'at.. 25225252 0gheseee:-: 222522 eee 208 OyShOrvMISNen cca. oe -x.ce.a secinee new caeuas coe ca een teRse Se cievcines ee ae ee ee 340 Oystors.at beesiens Pot. 2 oss 8es ser) Aa Shia teeeee eee seeeee 319 Epeihe Rpm rOndiee ines cnc Suse sone Solas aoc ae tee bean a<ge actoee mae eee ee oe Ee Pacifie Railroad, Advantages of Pass of Abo for...----22-2. ceeeee ceecee cannes 300 Face Railroad, duinenraced by Nature... .2..s-cgege+<s-+.-40 geno dseose dese ce 281 Acne Ralroad ROBO SCE 0.ccce ace share ameneete= << scascclgd oaks ceaeeoeeeee S6 Packages from American Institutions for Distribution abroad........-.......---35 packagessent abroad 42 See sce sistance aia Sosicels we ond coe ene aes teen ee 32, 33 Packages received from Europe for American Societies..........-...-----------35 iRack-Saddle for Camel. described: 2. s2<,c-cye0 cme c-cd wide tienen seaceene SE Soe 112 hace; (ieutenant Lhomas eee sioccatecwiaine's ciecaniiocccs Occ e eee ence en 37, 90
Pagris: Areyrops, (Big Porte): oon sie vino con sacmce sete ene ene tee eee ee 333

<<<Page: 718>>>

Page. Pah Utahs, Destruction of Gunnison’s Party by.-----...--. 20020 cece cecescceee 83 Pallas, Accounts of Power of ‘Cameliby.sesrsec see cons soe ce 7 Pallas! Discovery’ of the Planet:ds.-2oe cose role ces ee 138 all asi Orbit 0 Rast etro tts ere he ee BE OE eth ene Slate 144 sealORIhe! Ses saree Ce re re abet cee woe oc 45 Palestine: Marly and Tiatter Rains ofs 22s scse9esocnese ose tosh soccer sels Reis 246 Palestine} no! Rainn‘ Summer ing ssecsos oat eee abe Ae SS ae 189 Almas Capertee s MeN acs s IANA sn HASH S Smee oe daa acres oncre os aca ane 93 Palm meat from: Ceylonitssasgiegetras tats soe se at tesa a stoner ae teas aoe Salas 42 Palmyra, Wisconsin..........orate Nseries Hast TURN Sept MEE Ne eames gasses 88 PANAMA sass ASS ey Peotone jason Soue bs ose Soe A ARE BP eo 39, 44 PAAR Ata ete arse SSP Mae N Sala Saeed es dada Sasa Se eee 93 FATA PLUG PUGS MOMMA NA Aah cra Aeierat Ss rei idrcatid ole reed EECA LHe ey ape earn 42 EFA OTB Yate Seren nico Stes Sere ccna tates ocrclin stareesarulsislareth se da te eT 51, 90 ATANaCkVOrsa toss aac aavsa tetas sho alls adeee sc SR Ne es er es 90 Paré, Ambroise, Opinion of, respecting Influence of the Stars on Action of Poisons... 128 Pens a ro ate ae nt assesae So roeaa sick wUSSY Sadsee sone EE 36, 204, 212, 213 Paris; Mean Annual Range.of. Barometer at-....062 0. wocoss sectes cece lls. cece 204 PATO UNG ULONAN Gels Geek ete Sects eek LS eto route eipltwicle ce cots hecit sac eieet se ie 37, 38, 80, 84, 96 Parliamentary Aid to Georgia........ PEPE A ida tees fst ahead ee he AOA teh k 166 SOL OW AN Srsiata Sisters etareltelS atta Serars pee Re Oe lee ede te aig 85 PREENES foe Satna Aes ee Sotho a wcie a nadelacweswceme rite seen 87 ienrson, ‘GeneralactiverBixplonerivcsses-sesscedwe 0 ste Paraclcatvin ces SSSI 11 Givin; Oe is ,/On the Habits: Ofthe Gophers.avicee:scowidareacc seco edoeidcsaceacce 293 asGal, PiReovelys Dysao saree. aoe ces Ade oe ob ha dS AI eee Rae ee 182 eadees threugh: the-MOUntAING it s-ssececaecerswesew sae ainslet bo uu stin els ceeee eee. 299 ENRICO DAO MA vantagEsiObaoni cee Sate Sass chccmebcevebemedoacio: wee See 300 Pasunaca Lastata, CW hip Stingray ) cso ss 25 Se ek ISS ee ee See "337 RCD LOL maaan eNOS Ves Salon seen S ciostousre cnet ros enero tnisionsieeisl= 108 Patent Office Report, Meteorological Table in...-.. ...--2-5. 22-0 2-2 eee eee ole. 244 Patent Office Report, Notes Respecting Camel in.....---.--------se2------ee 103, 106 Pathe in the Deserts worn by Caravans, .-0..20. ocoa ooo ec oc Sh ES 104 ‘Patrapawlowsk:-n see oo oe eet Stats Arar d ees dercidiciatoo-a hawioe wiatena arene are 118 Pearce, James A., Estimate of Appropriations by.-...... .-..----------+--+. 74 Pearce, James A’; Report from, on: Li. Blodget: 2. 2. 2-sae con hscennoon sowie enete 74 Pearce, James A., Resolution approving Removal of Mr. Jewett---...----------75 Pearce, James A., Resolution to appoint a Committee to attend meetings of House WOMMILeeC at sees eee eee ae Sonos ere sot oale se soci as qiectetetseietreeteacer 77 Pearce, James A., Resolution on Conference with Establishment..-.....--.-------73 Pearces dames A., kesolutions On incomeé,.-.2 20+ sosece esate ecteeece coe eaoeee 73 IPOCKISME GACH 2cc/erctas one CORO roe mo & Cae ee ee SO ED aa tia anette 319 ZG COSIEMV OR cae oslo he, < atlas ee TR Rae oo eo ie oe eee ree ee eee eth orate marae 85 277 Peculiarities: o£ the Orbits, Ob AsteLolds’. ~--Sec eee eee ees Sonate dae Sees 143, 144 Pell, R. L., Experiments on Breeding of Rockfish in Fresh Water.-..--..--------321 Pelouze, Mr., Opinion of, Respecting Poisons-.---s-s-2e-¢ see cec ec osteces ese == 126 Peltier; Report on Tornado of Chendy ).<2.’ 22s. eos e bawcseccce cone cuss coone229 IRGUUSVIVANIA ota e cisce acca oeeeimaemeee acento cc Sete: wen bee emia sere cmae 44, 48 Pennsylvania, Chunder-Storm ine2scoc. ccs ss coos cece cee coe cen ee e-em sone 201
IPENrORE MWAliAIMIM a ena castes oe tee oe mene chiens we cicic scleae set sisewsmticns aeectic 38, 45

<<<Page: 719>>>

Page Peprilus; Ericanthus;(Harvest-fish) sce =~ 2. qeiote a aise sacle se aioe ianeseiee ee 333 Perch of Beaver Islands: peng ia cia min se cosa omiet elapse eeaa(sasee ee ceeeeae 287 erry; Commodore Mi Case sie. 2 o-.o sci cecjeeoeeeeee cee pone ene oe ap asees 90, 91, 96 Persia, Camel, used for Military, Parposes in... 22). o--2jsccnjseee weyers eases 118 oravian-Amazones see eee! oo ist ives cio sie macb alban cee eerineseecus ater 93 PROTUVIAN VASO ea feee eie oiwiaisja @ care ra, nisislormyelsiciees tesa eRe REGIE Se eee nero eee 39, 43 “Peter Simple; Hurricane, Described IN. 2= << -:s06 0). cciiss s setopepemem net esi ble 199 UROL OTE, ody Eels RRR nse SO AI pare Ses eee cro etait ate epi retaliate tots eam 82 Betrapawlo weak. aque cise io ona! sek fa elemeyriepceisinleeeisee eee ocoryec sSeaeeee erent 118, 122 Reps VM ok otis nk ciel ERS EERE Sheep alee ces sceemegaeeeee 190, 200 Phenomenaiin Desert,of Colorados-ventee enc occlceempeh Ss ceeeeeeeeneeeee eases 281 Pshiladel pias: siso.0ac sini a ae WSR teen aj enisnbeer-eacnceskecepehieee meee enesee 39, 36 Philadelphia, average Temperatareof 29,0000 slide dnenbox amcnlsoecccuateesher 233 Philadelphia, Clear Days at .-...-----.----RS COSCO C eae ean OR nec sae 248 Philadelphia, Collegeof Pharmacy<a=. e once seerieanseeaecered becReee 35 Philadelphia, Meteorological Tables at .....-. s..-----sceecon ecenee 215, 220, 221, 222, 223 Pasladel pia, Winds wh, j1s idee otis nical Sencioawaee othe «ede eaeereeeceemewaeee 238 Photographic Views of Helipse.... 2. -<-..-220+~.<sjsdeesnlttes be csseet Joeesce cee ll74 PNT NO SOLA H AI Kiera. Seis eicieiae diss ic ca Saisie meebo esines cee bien code some RaS 44 Physical Character of America no Impediment to Union..-..-.-..---------.----170 Physical Geography of the North American Continent ...-..----.---.-----------272 Physical Wawsok Civilization. ,ac<isjc,50c<c1, soseieis sian «traneeeeiceesyeas eee maseneane 171 Phy cis Americana. <<.) sicie ceria <isine/ tee stlana-eaisin cine laaletete aaiateem aber 331 WPISZ Zi 1 ae Sei sei Ree ene SoS welds eecdiew's Sia ce See aed Re eee eee aes 137, 138, 139 PACKET! isos h cicsicl poe eat Se ssirsee tis ee Aeon wa sicinisisie seer ewseeer eae eeeeer er 346 Piermont; NOW: VOLK nc accicrciicass.c.cin05,.01n cine binmminscemiss yume Sete Roo eheseer eee 88 Pietro Wella Vall .2c-ciccncreiemiaswisewisias ceccncwsieme tines cee cep eeleeeeeeeee neers 105 Pigeons, Experiments with, on Serpent Poison......-...-----2.----seceee eee eee 134 Bio Mish. Se ask Neen ce ee cloe siedisin s eloeeinse cig acye iiss Se imeietlteeemectemeiew eee ne 327 PikevandPickereliof Beaver Nslands...<< =< 2. <<) 5-j4 teehee foes aeeqemetele sinia aisteeiieiere 283 Pilorims toy Mount Ararat. <-.2c oo o's oe eee oreo oeieemate ae aylcnm ae ee 115 Pillichody# Charles coc6.s os sence c seine ere soees tet eee tee spie sinc ce ch camer 45 Pimas’ Villas: iso cc.c Seen Sas Hens cae mene costae cece ws wt ceee tees tos eee aseeee 96, 276 ima, Villages ochet alee tod coon wees cn See easton assets bees 4 coes seas 84 IPMe RIVED 3.05 3.2.21 soe eiseis Ska Ss cael th Seles BR eo tin > aa see eros 88 Pisa Weicht-of Camelsiat® 225a<22 sett Sctascantpeceeeeess>=psoas eeesaceees 113 BER VOTMES as Si Siac cidyeh poet teh ait Sos cae Rei, SE I oe oe we cle dagen ecm 45 Placer Mountains: <=... c2<2 <+ct-cowiels de oa -e eee oeeeeetec. coos were Meme seee see 275 Planets known togshe Ancients, <22< 26 ose a2, sedseaeeeacntcos emaeesceeiseestesa 137 Plan of Treatment for Serpent Bite and Poisoned Ariows.-....-..------------135 Pisntagovused fer Serpent Poison... 225224 scence oe ++ <n 2dsajga= ae wee saee 133 WAV ANGSE si, aso att OE valnis eke BE loiyaiand ete Baie oa cose cee eee aeeeee eeeeioees 39, 43 Plants: Seeds Of, fromyloxas ..s0.cacides cbcesceueeces wceoem meee eae suse 44 Plants nsed-for SexpentsPbison yo<2. «sip Gees 2 a sienon tas ebecienecsnenee 133 Platessa Ocellaris, (Long-toothed Flounder). << 2. cuz v/s +2 -0:52 c%sjeee-0 ceenes ~e5e 349 Platessa Plana, (New York Flat-fish, Winter Flounder)..-....--++.--0--+---+-----349 Pleuronectes Maculatus.s 220s. 22 ninco ose opie’ 0's wea pee cisueag anes cegaeeeees 350 Plan adopted in accordance with Will of Smithson...--..........----. ---5-----9.
Plan adopted to carry out Intentions of Smithson ...........---.-----.--------8,9
i; “|

<<<Page: 720>>>

Page. Plan to make General Catalogue of Libraries....--...22 .2.s20 scccsecescee toons 22 nity EMIS ty N abe ete welaenrs ioe = nee sstcneta ate eral otarsinielotmin <Jolalere oisimcin) osisiomateeminieniseem 107 Plover Portage...-------2.26022 nee seen ne cone teen ne ene cece cere cece ee wees 88 Plymouth:Company, Grant of Land t0.....------s2+-e-22+ e--+ eee eee ee ee 166 Plymouth Governor, Despatch to ..... -----202+ 222 eee ene eee one eee eee eee 176 Plymouth, Sloop-of-War ...--------«222-2 p22 2 eee meee tere ee enn cece ee cee 91 Poem OlderithanyMohamme did 2 so sitows foecisiceie tosinie 1 oem a istenineat= orsmiels wiles 104 Pogonias Fasciatus, (Banded Drum)...--.--------272020-2202 eee e ne eee cece ee 332 Point of Difference between Climate of Eastern an] Westera Continents -......--. 117 PGIROM WACHOMIO be a ciajctoro Saloraynwreinaraata ace bess ce me Siaecls Sete oeetes eee sea eas 129 Eoison by Serpent: Bite;-Treatment of. 5. 2.26 cone cesses stesssmes slsaess ee Soe 131 Rowon W@ause:o; Whe. Pectsvohesce sac ccicz Sec sceenistce case eco pe So aceeeeencoe 130 Poisonous Substances, Nature of, and Means of Detecting.....--.---------------123 Poisons conveyeduby: Lalianerhimerss «sec .n2 50 s--c sciee craecoerees selec 123 Poisons deprived of their Bitter Taste by Perfumers, &c.----. .----------------123 Poisons, Effect of, referred to’ Sympathy...... ..002sesceeecoensssenienaoee cee 128 Poisons, Knowledge of, introduced into France....-.. -.-.------------+--+----123 fpotsons)=Mannor-in which:they. Act: j2<..s.siece0 cc0c eo coscieccentesanins ssleeeene 128 Poisoned Arrows, Method of Preparing, in South America.....----.-..----------127 Poisoned Arrows, Treatment for Wounds from .. .--..---. ---. es---e+ +--+ ee eee 135 IFOIsOnedeATrOws;WiOUNndSHOl. so o0aseseetes ab aswoueees Aaese Be. sasabeeceeee 123 foiwoning, Means of avoiding! by. Paré: cose ecvceccs sous sesso sab eee se 123 polnone! Serpentsvacts.on the. Brains .< s-6.1 ac eessetewaselcert once elseoseae 129 PoisonlotsSerpents, Lreatment.of, by Indians). \.-.<.,acicm saciehwcocraieninienas-ocicniotele 133 Poison used by Indians on Arrows, the Venom of Serpents.---..-.-------.-----126 Poland (Onion ca Geen eee cies reine sjardtcralavalanhd mini cemiav ead Soa clneicet omleteeee 87 Police System of Boston by Fire-Alarm Telegraph......-.-----------+--+ ---0 155 Eomotis)Chetodon ( Banded Sunfish). acnae.ccmocsscescce sasnmsisesees sesessisecs 324  alates isin Biss trate mend SRO Kc eee ote eau eae 45 Bontugal «Climate: of a <Sepses ence coe necinle sin nye jeje casts ar ster ee ose nies 196 Boxtucal.; Maritime Aidventureunlss «,«.<a.20)/c'joieienjo's a0 jmeciw eS alaie inves se arccweloee 158 IPOLOMACIPIVEr SULEd tOuBassee somerset e.cmieaucie se peninieresis cin ttiatayemiaie sieieiclmicimelayetoere 290 ‘Post, New ‘York, Bvening, |S. Chayer, of ....<n). <occceennsis cannes cncece es enaeas 72 Ott ON ssteycere seen eee ee eeekic ees). eich eS eeIateemia nie iereieis iets acs a, Baeiaeteiee 38, 45 Poultney, Lowa, Temperature at... .-...-2.. 2-22 ccss cece ees coos ene nce ceceeo-208 Powhatan; (Steamerss_e2cestaceet ec Geo n= se Ses BE ees Be Cock lesieis aelsjeaeisleie 91 ower of Bactrian) Camel ss ssys se ssee iarsoaisbelemeciaciowcs occ aueicieelonsciccicece 117 Practicability of introducing the Camel into the United States....-.------------116 Practical Results and Abstract Researches.--.----.--------++ -----+ e--+----131
Prairie Rattle-snake......Sars ee ee SRN re a cers ae ptccis = ainel a nas ne elem miele tate 33

<<<Page: 721>>>

Page
Precious Opal from, Mexico desiisciccccinncise nate ere cee eee hee eee 45 Hracvoort,; Captain 2s a6 i acasssua no eaperr eu hes sae see eee ioieaeeeee eee 93 PremMinMs NOt NOCOIARY «<2 o<ja/<)naaciemmninns ee Sereeeemeeme adie cme 16 President of the. United, States... ..--<c-.00--0cenannebh Siset sackets emake 36 PPERIAIO: del NOT ainda eciaiccimin eicieinseinieinnie isinjoiceisrmmnajnanaa ee ea emelh sateen 45, 277 BTOStON, LOX AS 2 <— oa casis win. nam oan ans saeninw sSeoeics mintonambemareee pap aera 37, 84 Pressure of, the Wnd.at Greenwich </-.<.6; «<=j= a0; oti-in, sermmsviasaina eRe Meee 219 Pretat’s Accounts.of. Dromedary. Regiment... ...,.-...-.--,.00,2ntid, weet. eseligedl 119 TMCS Yom sencesoen OiSeelzon b snssin Ab Jeet acieeesbsiadeemes wae eieh eemeee 182 Prince: George County, Md 02.0.9 <in<ssawigaen'ssaniringemeicessnncctaniaane es ae 44 Prince Henry, Voyages planned. by... «.<<0 .o2<0senbogaiinesss Hace eee 158 PPINCC Of OFAN GO. anise c:ceeecicenetnkels memedaos oneecessanahe shh eeeebee eee 176 Pnnciple.on which Iodine acts.on Poison .ni22. docewelciee hatin cawitack mogesweduale 135 Prionotus-Pilatus.(hlyingsish))). <0 s-c0mconse\ cscs se Se RE ee ee ee 327 Private Explorations, Results. from sid. sc1ese soe ik A eee od eet ae 37 Private Reportsiol Mxplorationss «<...<22/o--..asicetets Be Ae ae 96 Probable.discovery.\of New: Planets..<<-2..< see eel se lee SS LIS 145 Rroots off Divinep Creator cece: smaseneie ne deme scmn cee ee See I ee 100 Proposition to buy Stanley’s Indian Gallery declined...........-------.-----+---77 Providential.Government: ofthe World’..3.22. 225535900. Sek 1S ee RES 162 Prussian Government, action of, relative to Exchanges.-......-.-.------.-----21 Prassic Acid, Antidote, t0.cec<0 sooc0s occans Sack on = CERO eee ee eee 135 Psychrometrical Observations at Sacramento, Cal...-......-.---.-----e267, 269, 270, 271 TB LCLOPUB niacin. o.nias,0,c50 aijaiw nin mimand ie Bia Swern a heE Oe Ses Tate PRIA ee 45 Publications during 1854, quarto and octavo0.... -...-..-o--c.eeee scenes cece eee 31 Paplic Buildings, in, Maro pe. sx<c)<' nancies cence ania naoeceusesoas metemaeonaeeeeee 39 Publishers, Copyright Circular to..-... .Ss2ssebeiveewsdsesld 2d obese eee 400 Pieblo of. Zuni. ~.< ic ngicccace coe son cos wes wecieseuecnn hee ne sehen ese neeise: 83 PUeHLOSOl OuiVildidsc: sce cmcdwie oes a cewewenccwn csccleanadebosle cee oo: 313 HI WONCOMIVOE od Sis aie Sia cise Garey Liciet tals apale eicia wleten ciatote maior PE EES © os 35 300 muerto del.las. Limpias'.<.-. 202. <0. .0f82Sos Sods Cae Se eel. ee 277 Pierto del Paisano... sse2 28. bodGen Be er ee Ak ec ee ee 277 PANELLOS GOjADO sere aii sSwisicvasoe encima de (aicie atc oe Sactesmiew sear eein er cee ee eee 299 RUC ets! SOUNG 2 ainis siibase ooo So Nee oa da aka a Seeercs cia Ale misies swine sie ee eee 62 BORD oi. yeh ink Ce cee ed TAS ee ol ae oa Oo ae 99 Fun in.a.Despatch from.Plymouth, Agent... . .<.=-<ssisece sec 00 c0 ease eee neeeee 176 Puryear, Hon. R. C., Member of Investigating Committee of the House of Repre-
RONLAIVOSE Soe newiciancisdiiSacec wee daaee doaaseciemae et Seas aes anew sew sen aeetooeos 77 atnam, Georkerk ., & Co cies. cececddessssencnesedccues ssueea ces eUeeeee 36, 66 Putnam; Gi kesge cocci. cc noose Pomaipd adaca me eeeea es BE cer 4. eae 66 intr elactive ROWOus is << ac00 ndncncienemnceaeacighiess..<cendaee Soa en aaa 135 IPVTGNGES oo aia<n)s ae occoawa ce sc coacawiocicsceaeeeeneed stat bom eee eeeee eee 171, 274 CIGMTNINEOS: «2.25 cone paige 3 = ons sn'sas'y a conan eee eewee ceesoeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 42 Quantity of Food required by the Camel .......-.. -----ssisee0 seseesier-aeeesas 108 Quantity of Water required to make an Inch of Rain....----..---+. -----------246 Quarrd, OO XCursionst0lsasseees ox nce lsien) colds eeisi-pienmcnc sane tee cece 296 @narra, Ruins. of... 2.02 secepeet Rees watt st ui Soin at) sol ee he eee eee 302 Oneboc...h.iseins Mes ess ate oss ao eee ss eta alt Sace ae eenettate 87
Quebec, to be admitted into the Confederation......-......--------+-----Bone 174

<<<Page: 722>>>

Page LC ECILES UU I 1 ea ee Se Oe eee eee See on A es eee 213 Queen Eleanor, Wife of Edward I., Historical allusion to .....-.....---.---.---132 GQrorechosMannersiand, Customs of <5 = 22520 Sas, coc aess crocus Cee ae ate emer 310 Guoeries'and Strictures, by, Dr., Hare). .<.scererdit act ascinice cornet asteanscees 203 Muineyzsivisittopsouthern:.C olonies:,<2s cc's ooh os coke as oesele; Sane aise eigen ones 169 BUAGIN OMAN COMAITIA f= ais. ote aie Sos ore) 5 clan Oe: pte ee ciathe cc Se, oct a he eee 87 VEC TON Mae sqaere iat tictron is ceieic ¢ Salcla Se mesnecs MCneeesR ee ees oan ae cee 194 Eval fel gi alas crepes aparcieie cue ei race aeiem ayes ot cis Se ASE Se epee eam moe aciea se cence 43 alroadyirom El Paso to: QuayMas.. <2). 52 so s<iceae scneclecaestesaciscesjese asses 278 RallTOAAwbO/PACHIC 2) -ap0c56idqo<< arse sie yedefaroge stems se hoe scinraee esses 37, 80, 96, 281, 300 ailroad.to: Pacific, Line, traced by Nature 3: 6-5-2. --ccicnseeeie sce cesses sees 281 Halroads;«Invention.and Introduction Of-.-2—5 <sescSoejesccisececs mane eaaisi= 50 148 Rain Amount Ol; from, alniOVer ONG BPOb<< << = .occce <ajac acs ela oente sae seslecieets 198 Rain, Annual Quantity. on.Atlantic and Pacific......---. 22. <.<0,c006 pa00ecne see 244 alnrat, Sacramento Calito Wil as a. sisson see st sctlerornisisie.sinjsisiowin cg sieelee = sho esale eels 268 Ean rallvofdurnncil854, in Californias. ......25, casisempoeeticcieys ton seleseccetsees 258 Rain @uanbityor to ProducepMloodse...52tos.c bic cee. pociene psieeenoeencee soe eee 248 Ramn@antity, ofawWater tomakean Inch: Of ccs cncecscocenestocccmoremecccuee 246 Rain, StormsiClouds, and. Mists,.at San Francisco. =--.-.....-<0. escees ccceeecces 243, 248 Rain, Wsuali.quantity, of in Atlantic. States; ...2..22ssc.<ec cae. sees conn maeneisecies 245 VALNYAS CASONS Ns CalitOT NIA oom 2aio scfm initia atenimiminy aia ie Meta leyeia stata ie ciniale 246 Rainy. Winter of. 1849='50) at;San Francisco: .-. 1.02. --s-5--oceseocnns woes cece 245, 246 ral ote DA SirA Waller ic 5S icrekgcs wicicbicis d isit,daleineis case) ameetearasaae da caae 127, 164, 166 Randall: sWMoctorA., of California, Liberality of:...---..--<-0'sss---<n2se~ oc soctes 16 Rattle of Rattlesnake Carved on Temples in Central America......----.-........ 124 Rattlesnake, Deseriptidncofsteck<, secs weseizl sewers se sic Selsineie serse ccc ee cosaces 124 Rattlesnake, Dr. Brainard’s Experiments with .......--.--c0.c-cess oeewenn cee 132 Rattlesnake WV OCds:Orsouts = 2ouwisasweech tage asec especie eessc-eneaiogee ac 133 RattlesnakesPresented to Museum... ...-....aces ceene seciesicleaae seisjeer eecene 38 VAY) SHLCC Uline tate ve eto oo mete erate ellen leinbcpate ala l> oe aie pelntejajels Os sjsieje'm es oteinia 42 Reading, a Rare Accomplishment with the French Canadians....--..-.......---174 Reading-roomsACharacterOfnn cee 0... scot eae os eoeeleseeee-lnaene nen ae ess 22 Receipt ofsBookstbyexchanvesss 42) CEU SSNs. ss jalatecisieteels a) Se Se. -iysianalecisin ae 33 Receiptsidurino ASateecen 2.2 ene ce isloseillisciheiens ayeichilecis 25 Vere reer eee 57 Reed; Josephs VisriitowBostoniOfe. lse2 sy ek lees ci Slo tien cise soa cise) ena dee wes 169 Keed) Professor HenryMiectures*by 2222 -2-s.u sed sce cencanen nrcinnem reciept Se 156 fre-elechion-0f Repentsseee pete os. 22s aces TCk Moaedieerl, wate abd Uo. 7 Redheld“Dheotrysastwtteesenness (utd ade cone eeeeee Beas Sa as 228, 229 BrCQULVOrm fee Stennett eRe Eee & cide cece nebbus.ckeece edcondaaeree oc oseeeeie 86, 94 Bod Shalencs.cesseet ke Sasa on 5. See bey ES ee ayy 44 Reduction of Meteorological Observations. ...... 0.2.22 ----+ccecee ceoe cece cuce 19, 20 eocentstor the Mstitution. ae=e) Sere wo 2122s seetcs ke teeeepeeenes <u ceececeee 5 Regents, Re-election of Rufus Choate and Gideon Hlawleyiases28-. 222d see edenile 72 Register used'in' Fite-Alarm Telepraph~ ~~... 22-4 000 038.2205.) S oe ee lee 151] Remarkable Brown Coal-beds of Vermont....--. ...--. eee eeeveccee cece cece cece 39 Remarkable Fact in History of Mankind .......-....---weee-eeeee ween cece cess 171 Remarks contributing to the Physical Geography of N.American Continent,by J.Froebel 272 BRCMEUTE SIE UT POO Eo SP AON VR eet et oo ce ccnrns oh Pees 124
AroMona Meh Mrs Mewe thes ee set et ee he os hws UL 75,

<<<Page: 723>>>

Page Rennelo’s Hstimatevof Speed+of! Camel vs. cae ise cats eigecievere eescqwocee ec eeeeeee 110 Reporters not to attend Meetings of Board..... .....---0---2-wee eee cree ee ene 72 Report of ‘Coast Survey qsoscsenerscs ois shee oie ce ee ee 95 Report of Executive Committee on L. Blodget.....-.-. 0-2. .2s.20 eee cone he aces 74 Report of the Assistant Secretary cx2 2220s ossaseredeo RSet Sees See 31 Report on American Explorations, in 1853 and 1854 ...... ....-----2-22-22 ---79 feport ofthe Bald me Ominittee -soe1s Jelvise goss sacmen sao nae eee 69 Reports of Explorations, published in 1853~54 .... 222. 22-2 eee ween ee eee ee 94 Report of the: Executive ‘Committee... 5 1ansacrs accede CEEERE eee See 57 Report on Estimates of Executive Committee adopted......-..----. 2... --2----76 Report on the Fishes of New Jersey, by S. F. Baird... 2... 0-22. yecces cone cone 317 Report of Mr. Meacham, on Distribution of Income, presented ---.......--...--77 Report of Secretary for 1854 as ee aeons MOOG a Cee ee Sea 7 Report of Secretary presented 206225222 j2sSse oe A So eee aie V7 Report of Special Committee on Communication between Board and Establishment 78 Reports on Vertebrata of Exploring Expeditions. -..........-.......-----2--0040 Representation from Board requested to attend Special Committee of House of Representatives sco Sicha hats 533 ct SE PSR ie ae 76 Reptiles ReasIVedl soe fest oa asa os ea see SAS Oe Se Re lt 38, 39, 43, 44, 45, 46 eptilesiof Minnesota ss22s.u2 foe eee ns test PRR De) See ce aye arte Ta 292 Requirements of the act of Congress complied with.....-.-....--.....--2-.----+ 8 esearchons. 20/2356 Sos odd care sees I Bees ee aa 15 Research stimulated by Institution ..... ....---.---.---+--@yn cine) nes See eee 9 Rescue, rigs i!) Jodo od essed oe sect se ss st IN AE Se eee 92 Resolutions approving Removal of Mr. Jewett ...-..--.----..-.eo St ecotn gis 75 Resolution giving authority to Building Committee to use Funds on Deposit...---76 Resolution to appoint Committee of Finance. ....-....-2.-----eee eee eee eee e 77 Resolution to appoint Committee to confer with Committee of Establishment..---73 Resolution to appoint “ Library. Committee”... .....-<5.sccecisels snedercce-saeeees 73 Resolution to appoint Committee to meet Committee of House of Representatives77 esolations on Distribution: of Income;so..weee 2. 22 erie ee eae ben en aaoe a cine 73 Resolutions on Income Appropriated to Library.......----.-----0-2-2 -20--+73 Resolution of House of Representatives on Resignation of Mr. Choate...-.-....--. 76 Resolution of Mr. Douglas, Relative to Correspondence...-....---.---------.---78 Resolutions of Select Committee, on Distribution of Income adopted..--.......-.. 73 results ofPlan2sshee Sacereats teeeteer sect so sence lepiai9se cose ceri anes 8 Review of Weather at San Francisco for 1853...-.. 02-222 e202 es ecce cone cece cone 251 Resolution of 1688, Influence of, in Producing the Union...--..-----.-...---..--176 ISO) Onesie) GEeeinneets SEP CE SOECOD AAD Beioe ced HCE MRC SeCO SHO oer Gono GaSe 122 Rhees, William J., Collection of Materials for Notices of Libraries by....-....---23 Rheos, WilliamyJ-succeeded Dr. Foreman. ~-=< <j saetion 9) 0 3)s\o Seis nisi beeen 23 UhodeWslandssme eyes ole = ea care o.ccceiel sa leaieeiteteimiala ot sin © oiapehe is neue eee eee 47 Rhode Island Colonists, Refused Admission into Confederacy....--...-------.---176 Rhombus: Maculatuss (Spotted. Turbot) nic << jaye 2s Aeeleleiniehe.onc\aisiajolaaaeiniee ae woken 350 Richland City so. Soc cele wale lacela aia « sinCliniehaleialmeielmm a = wine oie nicjniainlm. nisin lminialalelatnicitn 88 Riggs, Alfred C.-... 0-25 ccncnnenne cee cree conn ene nn snes wens ene nnascen serena 38, 39, 45 Riley saw Camels; fed with Charcoal 2 -\.cm --Snm meme jajniniofain ncn siaamneeineiemeeiaas = 107 Ringgold, Captain C...-. .--0-0 ---22 2 eee cee ene ce ee meee cen ween ween nee 89, 90, 96
Rings of Rattlesnake... 2-2 -255c.nc nce ne none ewe wens cennn sn ciciat oe ietelaetatey case 124

<<<Page: 724>>>

Page
fro de los Mupbrev.ce0ss 5 csies5 Soca ds eee eeeee 276 hid ide! Papig6chic, or Conception: setae $2 eceis sl eck swie lob ebheds Basak eee 278 Rotel WuertGe sche seus Gisele eCaeelad scope Manis eee a eee 278 PEIOVCG) NANUANMATIR Coo asc cle bis td da SUCRE Rds eesleeae anc ae's Sosiceeisadiquseseee 280 a0! Grande: Collections fromm thecccecee oe ae a et PU os 37 Rio Grande, Division of Rocky Mountains at...-...-----.----22-202 eee e eee 275 FeO Grande PHeOnbUTes {Ole ie ee ce ae Sats etre Sloe ok eects ed doe ee Tate 296 qzio} Grande: dhevelofsat PltPasosne eo tee ee ee eee ose caut sla ee 280 Rio -Mimbres.... 2-2... sees sere eas lee weiss ee Be ee aaa ooh ae ae eee 280 ETL SGC Teg ieee ag 20 AR ea Re cA ary i entity CGR Nhs ae SER 278 PoRbieR ee ee Pe oN eee ek eke ee ks dase kln eetebdtesa ses 100, 102, 103, 111, 114, 120 Hivers; Inftence of, upon Civilization: «<2... be ss.e te eee s wee eee Jae 170 iiversanleenico tee wie el fs te eo eae ns OS BUN ae ae 278 Reaver EL OaGe ly erlis shee a See Ne a te D ea ee Od 2 a Na Eo 16, 42, 88, 317 Rives, John C., Stereotype Process adopted by...---..---.----------nee eee 23 erGndenm Na WeMOxICOs. 2. Loc2' nase anc'ca se needed since cacciiee teen miobatciencatiaee 299 AOAMOMOWINGNG fot ON ome ee ee oneal dodsas chee sue tessinee secteemecoeestaoe 45 Adbinson} Mstimate of Speed of Camel...=--2:2..006 .2--0cecees deseeeecceteeee 110 RODINSOMM MOAN GING \ 2c ssorsoci ch oasce icceeseteek aoee cece sore tetas sseeue 345 ESOC HORE VALS ee oe setae ae eS ML ae Mahe peg ea MRT din Nita io ends bo ee ME enna 88 ipongster, N.Y"; Temperature abt: 52 s..s5is <2 sss ceased sen decs tebeeseecens 201 BRO CK=fishwse toa Ma se pee e OO ole Seo cake Lue aen cease nee eee cetera 321 ockpe Mountains oo. sete ss cee bse eet ec es coos Se teteeeetetcee 39, 81, 82, 196, 197 Rocky Mountains, Divides into two Ranges ---. ---. ---. ---2-2 e222 22 cone ene nee 275 Rocky Mountains, Southern Extremity or, defined 2 s.s2heseciec score ssccn ss ose see 277 Rocky Mountain Passes, not more rugged or steeper than those of Arabia and Tar-
Gea errs eee Sica SAS Moe So wtae Se Sees wet esiis Sate aa ease Se cence see 117 odverselieutenantI OM sscecst acs cee soos casick seeeoeets Sasso e ces cease 89, 90 ROCESS MELON SIONv Hise. 2 -oscle ae cincescaes cece MSA Ra Se Satctn ab sen meets seme 45 FeO gOIg, ORCMMANCHS Sevens Soo aot st bce secebos'saccaelt<so cmminssee~ scenes 39,45 RolandovMieutenants-eos2-2h-.-s.-s-50 RC ee Sc ate oe aie schoine cae mates 89 Romans, use of Camels in War by---. -----------+ eee ne cee e eee reece encore 118 Rome, View of History of....---..--. Rete hue Behe mieiensiee nlelotae Wye wel o.w lela ia = ie uers(ate 156 Route Proposed for Pacifie Railroad ........---------+--+ 22+ + e222 e202 cere ee 300 Roulin, Analysis of Woorara by -...-----------2-22 eee e eee cee eee eee eee 127 Royal Society, Books distributed by -.---. .-----------0+ eee nee eee nee cee ee eee 33 Ruhmkorff, Apparatus for Dia-Magnetism .....-------------------222-227 --ul Ruinsiof Abo Descriptiomofes 2 5 ...2 22 ccs. ons c.cncneceeeeense eeiemce <= —s's=-¢ 300 FGI (OL: GLAM QUIVILa pees see ses am sock c= eoeiaya ss -\ninele oo sales sci talela= vim ala m= nla 307 IRIN OLC NG Wi NLORI COR eas sacscm ee cee c a a Gulla e Ss suiouin Mom mmetnmte ac .cle amet 309 Fens Ob; QUALLOs on coos sic eeneteSleicine os s<nle we asieccsan casas meal taessncins ss cisna= 302 VUSKell Ohne cas Hees ees, cow ood dincitocaclomeMlce ep eeais ese = ae winideaie == 36 Russell, Robert, First Lecture on Meteorology .--------------+ e--------------181
Second Lecture on Meteorology..-----.-----------+--+ -+°--192 Third Lecture on Meteorology .---------------------+--+ ---= 202 Appendix to Lectures by ..-.----4 ---. --<2 --------2 ene e eee eee 215 Russell’s Rule for ascertaining Dew Point. -..-....------ceee -o-meee cece nee 194, 221 Russell mentions Abstinence of Camel for Fifteen Days ......00 nace cess erea cere 109
Mis. Doc. 24 29

<<<Page: 725>>>

Page Russia, Mean Annual Range of Barometer at .--..22 222 p22 conn eee cee cee cone 204 Russian Expedition against Khiva and Bokhara....--...-..-----------++--+----118 Russian Provinces, Longevity of Camel ins. soc sso os sniein Saas sae ce= see cone 117 PMG ertOrdy Lan ssh teeta cise oe) om dal ed core sie sareia oe siarana saint clatalaitahereimta retest tote 182 Sacramento, Cal., Hatch’s Meteorological Observations at ...--...---.---.-----263 Sacramento, Cal., Logan’s Meteorological Observations at --...--...---.---259, 260, 261 SacramentoiGity, creat Rain-ab, .o52 323 sc5 25 Sate eum snccce naacuame cae wanes 251 Sacramento eivereasces choses « Sacsioae so cee ecb eens sean eee tet cece seem ae 246 Safety of Acronaut in ‘Phunder. Storm ss... 5.25 ssetce ccs cacnsa eeemeacisacteees 224 Naladas Wawecsiss sc ccit costigncc ce seca Bandi oom oe cicemrcnicrs sam ieemmiee oe ainere Bene er 299 SalamandorBoost Soe ss os, sat a a cisie ta clouia: deine areata aicatstaralowtet amen eciate 45, 294, 295 Salamander of Wisconsin, Description of....-« fodou\s Mu cweisics lel saueisces semeieee 295 Salem, Nj. (Cbs ssc cle aesere ced acacia socieae Scitee ne oetenceina ma saie asa seine eee 44 Salem, Snow tellin-July; 18042. 22s sce Sa taisanc octet pane ns oeasene eee 197 Nalinas (RIVED ss aoc ce cin con qcccisssljaciccs sateas se coma seine ance mice ce re eerie see 84 Bal LidkOccccccjcaunctao wesc ncclecdad coun Soemeclee Se ceecee acces Seo eecmem et ov Dalek Oliyscss sonsce close cease sens smssaem aes ea ae ace cemeten re ee 43, 83, 86 Salt Iuake. near Manzana <2 3s s2sss sss scoo esd 552 oaSUE AL Os SSCs Sere 303 HAMPSON HOK ets sa ssw sss seteo st lkte ella case Son ais ous Asawa Sas ooae pene arena 37, 44 San VANOMO Fics soa satin ss Saas dasa bo acces Sob Awa aa ee Sas Mowe eee ee 43, 83, 84 pan Antonio) dei Bejar s.223 452 Ses sode ease sses SSS SEINE SP Oo re Sees 277 San BermardinotChain stoo5s2 280 ae ee ioiccteese testes veces Sees Roem eeee pa eeee 278 San Carlos, Narrows.andwktapids 08 os secses Screg Leet sts CURE ont ee 279, 280 Sand Creek; Va:, Bxpedition:to. 2255222 5 Sle eee er Oe ee ee Sea 289 Sandia, Peaks fosc cee se sesas hsesae Sascha ms ote alee Site Nene ere een oe 298 Sandilla Mountainsya ties Si. 2S SC eel See el sca oe eee olecie bee ee ita ieee ae 275 San Diegoes 222) sJosetenc ces ot tec etl eacakee ceed eae nde hamlet ate 44, 45, 84, 256 Ban eso Shaina. cencches ne des te deat eaccenence ss aces aseaceeeer er aaa 256 Sand Smelttscarstcsscates toss toc eeee See RAN wes Oe 5 eae ome ene Smetana 333 Sandwich"Manse, Orkney: cc2-sic25tessesntsase sesesebaseee estes. seen eeeees 211, 213 Sandy Hill Morkesss6 sibs eke ese ieee ay eee aS es eee eRe eS Sas Fo oe aye 83 San EAnCIsCO! foes ose cheek alesse bee Rohe a sas ee eee ee ee ara 35, 37, 84, 86 San) Francisco. County. Cal: Birds arom +222 bosses oe pe cisaee cia =o -owietacicceeine 43 San: ranciscoy Climateroret os sc4 So ste Bats tebe ee aset eee omnes secceneeetecanee 231, 255 San tran ciscor Mountains sees ssss os, ches Late S Leet ee eee. secs Cocmeter saat 37, 83 Sanoredelk@hnistossseroesaesee ets ea a Rees Jace aeommre nee cen ae ae me eee 83 San longwinietc6.3.f2--basee eases cece cee ie scm eee week antes <5 cea eee a aatetaeta 84 Nan JOSE ANINUstal S22 2S se Sess eee eee ae Soe eee aciesc cana alee s erate nnetatetete 243 San JUALARIVOR) See nc Sos tae e oe Mace ee seca tee te. ao sae mae eae eeneeieets 276 San Wuisthotosieeerts ssc s skeet ea eea tte toe epee ec aecs cat Seen coeneenemmemtes 83, 277 Sant Salvador VoleamciCoves Of222sescsssesestceene+225 Soc ccase cece senaee es 73 SaritavAnna, Concessiguuby: .2225 tees aaa eeaeeeie a. co sates ese aemeleaeemnee 278 SantaAvina: IndianvG tetas )cc 92 Secon ase Saeeeemte aa a lal Ae wsominen mien ee eiatiae sae 315 Sanita DAL Dale son se See see seis eit eas Se aeeet ences can onsets eats eetam ate amas 276 Santa Crtbaic case osea saaciecesis sis ssayoelciciaplete ellen cs ie aeimn oe bein taiate ste cians ose 188 Santa F622 cs ssececccscis tte sae satcns oe uln steleinitn'ne See eeece sel ae ae eee Soe 44, 45, 275 Santa Maria, Laguna de ..---.----:.csscccecs sccle a EE oe Secs se cee cteimeitctetcle 276, 280 Santiago; Chiles sos ccsssatises 223cos aiewenic ce necnc aecaee Shoo Srotadas tosgined 35
Nantos; Indian Chief aacacesicsctscnc ecnacanm/incia aides cee aenn enieniamteataraaratstels sinters 315

<<<Page: 726>>>

Page. . Pearse ga, DIOOD OL WAT) os otis posal alae d hate sep eile Sommers o EE 91 Deceit ug cae item meanat cat NSU ee ete eect le ae i aT a 201 Rat OUN IO VIN sae Gam cece de ce ithe Sees Sos Be esoe MUR ea 331 PaRCOWs CORMAN = Se, cps asi at aie Sai ora see caesar ademas sca ees fu goth yiiciemieg 39, 45 Srna Orbit Ofesci fos ct a sesso baeee eae ete PR aN Stie ek AN ni eoea 143 Saturn, American Discoveries respecting .....--2... eseee+ cece eecnee weee ee cces 146 ReverTIR-MOXICRMESH So M2 ho neta cinae eae we Sec eRe Seas a Saas, EN at 346 Savages possess Art of Poisoning unknown to Civilized Man....--......------124 Rayannnh. Lem peratureates 2-425 o5 Jue cock se Ce DOSES ae le 209 Sawkins, J. G., Description of Ruins at Mitla, by ...-...-.. 20.222. ---e-ee eee 11 SS KOM Cara CUCTISEICR oo ets ia ise aia tesa c micas Se el Vapi rear tr aE Lh 161, 163 paxondom ,..s.5 2s.o2. saisleeiaiateinniswicle tose lecaclacesctecsce elena s Salminen itataeine 157 SMON, MOU LEM AN tae tars sacnais cite cen mrss reke ae SAE ere See ee Oe ane SU OR 81, 82 Sealopss Brewerbec tec osciscowinatoyenay Sessa as Tas SEAS EOE SR li 45 MCARGINAVIANMD INCOVELIERseecicta. CostEet eee ee ee ee aa ae eS 158 ScandinavIANVAUPSE S-si\coccs cebecs vesot sates Jeske tesa Roe Sees we ee 171 Scenery il INeWMexIGOs cscs ce ens cosees tse oct aeets ceee cette. wet eae 298 Scheelh Dress Me aos eschew ase see sa set ocoucesss cess habs sae he 82 Schomburck(Sim Recci cesta ede cueseeseessebecatue seks cee esas seosiedeems 45 Schomburgk, Sir Robert, Statement of, respecting Poisons -.---..----...---..-.126, 127 Schoolcraft wel oRay saa oeerce ees leek hee eeeebe eerie ceemete eee ee 95, 96 Senool of Design Modelsilentt0ssssci2 ees acces ome melon niche neeisne ase soe eeneee 26 Sehuchart WMinw sce eee ew sods See tete oe acai Ue yacitla oat! Tae 980 Science the great Instrument of Civilization........--.----+ .----e220. --+e 147 Scientific Correspondence ..-....----. em Seite dare mee aaeln a os alae soeap saci aseae 224 Beerpionsse seen sa ciseias sme scs samc eictomamye armani, tara staleniaretatal siciel alate as availa tate 44 DEOLNIOM CHOON ORs veces iecetswcoes case soe smamccl sccm ese ceeet sees Cees 93 DELCO WHOM ASHE) ce. joneacioe toe eee mece ee taene = emiacasseaaemas ces Seem seem ee 93 Seotland/ and jand!Sea Breezes thy s<Jossecscs ape cscs we tess esos loess Sees oe 187 Scotland, Winds in...-........LO GLO RES ODUETE Shain a Se ane ee weal AOR 211 Scotophis Alleghaniensis....--.-....--..----pSeeee me reiseeeseceleses eeeteeee 44 Seripture;aw,ef diemperature-alluded to"in-s-222-s 225222. 222s sects eee 195 Serophularia,, Used for. Serpent robus: 2.22 2.2. 2262. sc2 tesco neice cece os 13 Scalpimnssees ce assseeemeeme sa seca eam eke Heeeee mee eee ae Sots seoe ea cete teatro 228 Scutelliria,Wsed for SenpentyPoivoner3 seks sss/se sec teah soc e on womens eee 133 Benoni Viet Wiens aaraeeemmete ade caacios nace soateeaaiasrt wise) sacets oe ars aan eee 62, 63, 65, 67 SEB LORS Sy SSeS) caer Goto coon poe MOU MECIc st Metin Scr eie eH ar yies aa Wa NEL 323 pn reeZes il MUFOpGy<-neehenaste== 66S. Le cose. ahesthotensemenee es cae eee 187 Beasnreezo in Californians Seeman hes oSSal Sse Ss Tassel aac Se Pe Se ee 240 CUA ADMD: -22 SE ese HORE MO REN Slavs ca sclatg ass saccueaee memes sacs ce baneise 341 Sea ikey. 25.5 52/2 Saleem eellee aie o\elacintew eae sin aaiainala sete atals aay oacrea asta 346 Seawater aUserothy;Camolsst teense. occcice sence sen ee eae ese omiseeav eee 100 MECIOUAnY Ol UNO NAVs tosa/tce sant a a dco acnmen adele baa cioons cece re eee 89, 93 Secretary OLO Wik: tase eee cena tees cate lac) san ose hasan gions Saeeloua ae 80, 95 Secretary, Annual Report of, Presented to the Board..........-.-----+ -e---eee 77 Secretary of the Institution, Appendix to Mr. Russell’s Lectures, by..----..-.---215 HedeMemEATY TNOCKSOL EOXUS te ce Ceene eel ta. cos ccck code Get descck sag ces, aulon 280 UCaRFORIOU: COLLOM = aura Seem ono e ete Laue cou ba tead pace ne Saumahae 43

<<<Page: 727>>>

Page. Sergeant, iJiy De. cosmetic eamee mean caclkeeh corre okeneee 1 eeee omens meen cane 38, 45 Sexmon at/Mount, Ararat s2ssc pce cees so ces posse eee eee sone eeee HIS Serpents, Nature and Cureof the: Biteiof_... oe eas csc endee cecaesctes abeseees 123 Serpents Furnished with Poison.......-.. -Erbe seheo see eee eee eemcenye ne mee 124 Serpents, Treatment forsBitevot. ss. jcc cjectoneee theese ae oben eseacat cer oeee 135 Settlements by DutchyandsSwedes. -5s: sce Sos See eee eet c Dee e ee eee a eee 175 Seven Planetsionly; Supposed to Tuxist:-<21/pen seeitanecemescueccentes Cee eee 137 Heyen Rivers ses ee els wale eh SNe ate lie Ae Lae ered MSNA Oy) An Aa 297 mpeyenteenth Century, that of Colonization... 2:3. 0.0. secs keecee cece. 167 Seventh Volume Smithsonian Contributions...... 0.2.2. 02-02. cece es ecccee ce ecee 10 Sementakesrs cscs. cee leer eae eee tk He 8 i 8 ee wr 83 SGVICPNINIVEL:..)5 oPsicisinaila So eee asa hae Seeeutee eee SS ERS Season soso = 83 Shakspeare, Description of Thunder-Storms, by.--.--..---.-0--0 eeecee nee cone 199 Shakspeare’s Account of the Killing of the King, in Hamlet.............---2... 150 Sharks: 225 Soa. ele ek ees tae eee hee ee Cone iden eeeee Eig Merce 352 amie 8 eee peas satan Sata nce ert arctanhalaiae ciate alejaicl at cinintars opetelcinte ysis) ela oe] ola atemps ete 39, 42, 43 Shawnee Reservation. \scntoecc seco s eels act ecea-elaaplee = clieea ames eine eae eae 83 Sheboygan, Wisconsin. ..---e222-6 22-22 ee ne cone ce eens cee cone enn econ woe e 88 CC TNETOU TTS e oa ES SI EOE EE SO NOE Oe CDSE Ce oSse Sebo BaRU rornoeSEISD AS Sa UaoS 329 Sheet Lightning ..---.2 2-222 cee e ee ce ene nee eee nee ce ene teen cerns ene eee 225, 227 Shelley coc she wwocwcc ces ace cee wince soe 5 sinasjeme sis ee cine inke elie! win min ininielalatet tpi 45 Shelter-Island/2: s.12--.) 5-2 = sete aie ie ole isele mame picetnas eieeeielee ieee ater etete eiseenen 334 Shepard, Professor, ©. (Wie. 5 cineca aia njnl ee cle wo m'e wisinonia wis ie seeale nes wa cleleclsteine 94 SHETHUINE UNE ea. ee heim a fereiajols alelciaia Sia, Hes ay tian pola aietnnatelen aa aia aime vopeenetateteae lteter ae 83 SHB sot ae e cace cloacae s se essed co mctotn amare acinar oleieisata a ater areke tat tear ne 182 Shiner ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee ees Hee eee ee ees Ce went ewww ee eee eee enn 341 Ship Canal Expedition.-...----.----.----------+--+ == wikia deranseceneeeeeee 93 Ship of the Desert.----. .-----2-seo coe none ence eee n ee cons meen e wenn ense sone 100 Shippen, William, Experiments by.----<¢-.------0-s-2+seceiceseeceennicnen 18 Shirley, General....--------------eee e cen e cece nnn ene een pene eee eee 169 Shirley’s Packet... .----0-2 0ie---0 eee cne vances on penn ee eene aecinns enseunda 94 Shoal water (Bayites semis mae) van sacincinm acini solocimmeaieenianrias alee mtatee lle aeteee 82 Shootingmuars if California. 2025-22. ccncs socceneoerisnetemans paloma eee eae 258 Short-pilledUPike” Nosecs wants ccc wa sercas ce aise nets see See a Me olen ee 345 BUTE Ws SKIN: oq sre loats ewtainominve win cise cise ctersicle ia are a (eileen tenes ee ee eee 44 Shriver, Mr. William, Introduction of Bass into the Potomac, by-.......--.-----290 CSV riTurd say ot BL)7h 0 pnp ey A etc eee UP yok ta A) 2 | oe SSO TE SY 290 STAs Teac Biss Sina tale cy eke ein oe rca IIe at itt ARNE ee 5 fk Sg eC 82, 94 Shumard?WrdGeorse Gece se. oe Sed wii Reet bo cron ag ener 45, 85, 86, 94, 95 Siberia, Camel ‘in} used for Saddle'or Burden. .2-2 cese< s 22. eas ceee eceeeelaeeees 112 Siberia, Bactrian Camel indifferent to the Cold of....-...-=--. 2202 ceccoe cece ence 115 Rickness Of Whites taunt Apelia 2 cee is coe wishes eee = seins See e nee ee ReeeRE ee 93 Sidney, Sir Philip, Character and Enterprises of. ...2----2.0 eccees nnnccencena164, 165 STonitiGHMOUNULATNS Eat ee meme te ocho ce & eerie eee oe eletenie lata on, bane ei bemiciepeers SRE 280 OLTOST cae cele ate ones ainintemiale’e = jalelsiciels' wlojslo'slaljmtetefelaimlel~(<c(a/ ani aveinaajaiaiel a ieiatina latter 87, 227 Sierra BlanGaee ce ccas cetnteaipe.ccmwile ts atniarae min miaiwaisie asa jclaeaaen canara quiere 276, 297, 315 Sierra’ de:las! Grallinas <oserat acts wn weiss eins = bloleit ens mein agree Selene nee eis eee 306, 315 Sierra de la Manzana. ..... ..-----2+ ese ne nee we ene weet nnn cere ee eeeene 299, 316
Sierra del Palo Duro....-. Wala wie s: wiate a lula aolelewrerdiaie arms emteistae iketela wakes meee merereeta rere 299

<<<Page: 728>>>

Page. Stewra CevlOs MIMDTERs seu mtelstaw mony rant tye ee alee rk Lis aihu oie ciel ala estat fe arte oe 276 Dlermay Madre whomMarks! TESPOClING, team vei cold einic micin jer cicieshwins euecmmamieeeiersuae 273 SiorraMadre, Hrroneous Idea ‘entertainedsot, .----cisicccc ac ecco sein ns ecietoniseee 277 Sierra NeVAdA ee es atomcic eae mas BO CORE DOOD Se DOC OOE SUSE SOO n er a eaiee Grae aoe ° 84 Sign ALC incHits and “BOMOSS cs comic emomsascm que comisleris ojallwisns |) San sicacenateaete 151 RullimariepoOurnalie 2 2. Saget intern iapeyeinisisteie = (episinyaya oemeyilatepsi tata nlevctcia/s jintee eee 229 Silliman?sJournal,-E.xplanation of Storms in5.2.-\/-5 235 S26 ws Cseaas cose eue 199 Silke Cotton Seeds Or sess sete So. ee el eye Co ra eT ea anu dal ain 43 HOUVel GaAniRh Sl S see cmc siete Saaos Salers Sistas btn aoe tats herare eee cians toma 346 BINVOLSIDG) tts cns feo salons csc: a ceta cielo awlotleis s cieicel ceinieeieues cislee etme ecm ela miwiate cree 338 Silvery Merch wicrcicts elaie nels wommine sm here Hla deeeio cre aieeevamcte einen Ree ateiat oat 33l SIMMS We GUMOTEMMeECCULOS DY sacicies = vue oSialcia cian: cclolawe aia eteiniw|wcletcine wie Selena 28 PuMOntOn ss Wises sce sac eee cece dacs cjsrstiee'snelbeinens sleemoce seca es decease 72 Simpsons Capac sae owe seoc cicmacemeae steels eco eensis|at oa aarek ema eters 83 Sinaloa CoasiihantGcOte caccn soc aiiwwicee cine, cca\in rice loa evaesinismin seis Satta eete 279 Sino er wiTeUten aN beme too oomeeincleisiaseinec erin e(s clei e cle sieie eiislstiainotelsiciagaaely ete 93 Sinowsin oN ew VOL Kasse cscs aotee betiedacicienminyan w/alnzicin sie os ania me eiecelaias efecto 42, 88 Singe singe Whiter Perchyati. cciseejocin aprece culsaremtad navel nels ta cjeeeebicccn ooeeiaee 322 PSUS HCO Nts MED AION GS tes orctenaiet lett vaicetes cole aap ci eresle rave es era Ne Patra te ave es sta Tare ral Za 283 Sitgreaves, Captain ELD PLAS en AUDEN IL: Beret Caney AORN Cees lpn 83, 29, 94 Sixteenth Century, State: of Soclety-imwos. .o2 web oo eel nee cee eres ceca sees 123 Sizelot thesCamelen 2 cosy cost teecca ccs acktcst eases HeLa ence meee seeeseeeeemee 113 Sizziam AstronoMmenor BlOnrencen tacts swe ne Sat oes ee Soke blero ee Oe DS eee 137 Skinvos Sperm iWhalesssccos seston ete ee sekse eck och Pee esiceem mecca eae 45 Sky covered by Clouds at Philadelphia ..-.....-..-.--202-2. .--Ween sas ch seks 223 Smith Captain, Kati odecceetisees itech eee eRe Ni eT eee 45 ean G HC OM OG OS erase ye eres ae ES Se Te at PAE, SUN a ALD AURAL REE EN Rt 39, 45 Smith, J. Lawrence, Investigations by, in Laboratory...---.-.....-----jouer e 18 SmiinwDre sy luawrence, lectures bys scsa4s2 cs enas seascee coecegseeessehuee. 28, 29 Smithson; (James,eroceeds of Bequest of.coces sass cesses. ce sstt ole sede ee os 62 Smithson Jameswrersonal tects Ofeaseseessivsaticice tos cases eta cee eeebeeeene af Smithson, James, Analysis of Specimens of Meteorites belonging to Cabinet of--.-18 SMiERs phish) HEQuesissaass a= 55s sicbee fsese saneaee cette eh Sete Releases eee 57 Smithsonian Contributions, Distribution of Volume VI..-....---.---------------36 Smiths Soundssacsaeeeme sss: ee ea se Sadek ae sel wa ees s Crete 2 oe eae 92 SHAK GS ele ert Scie Sela eRN aa a bak a ea aa 2 WN Rage) es Kae a wan ee Sie URRY 38 Sap pin ae yb] ee eae etm MeN ee ofS LSS b5e Salas Ser PEN ME See SA ete ec ain 39 BSH ONWAy TO CER Che hoe save renee s «koe he ty UNE eg Lid Sea ANE By SRE dae 246 Sucieties meeting in‘SmithsontanBuilding... 22 12222052. 066 Sabecs bee netic eae 27 Sueiety inthe Sixteenth: Centurys. 22-2 .-22 22o220cbi se bec sees 2-2 wea ete 123 Society of Arts; London; Models de., from. 225.2 eee ees coos ce 26 BOCOrron MO Un GATT ee ee mn LNA Srh he sie ott oe RMON angie St oats 276, 298 Sotteand. SaltvwWiatere sce ot Meme ta! See Lae aN Me eo Ss Sosci eb erase 188 Solar’ Helipse of May 26, 1854:tAecount' of 22.252 4822 02022 k i 222-225 coc css cena 17 Selar Helipsa of November Sls Posdne. of eo ena tat bes Gore occk deen weeeenance 91 Solarclipses, Map* of by Professori@ofhn 22s 2eodesccc. cool. ccc ec cens scclcns 17 Solag system more!Complex thanvsupposed’-2.') 22. ade 2 lel esa dc cece nace eons 149 Solfatara, on Northern Side of Lower Colorado. .....-----------20+ -eee eee eee 281
SolpmsmMintranslatlon yerenreccetee eee prea se cise ae reek eccelcules One sfotinc amet 102

<<<Page: 729>>>

Page. Solution of Iodine Prevents or Retards Death from Serpent Bite.....-..--------133 SOnOTH: 6 dei wescbe hecmla<tpdlusalee eee saa a ciiaciee Mea ca ee ane ee eae 80, 83, 278, 279 Sontag; Augustus s..5 <2 .el-tetecad eb ces oe aloe A ee ee eae. ose 92 SOOLO GS ear cc) jap o's\a's stetemteiswiscicc l= sole sictew ete / nonin ee iausn pam eE me awane cea 90 Sorex Dekayl 5.2. 2c's ro eee eect cece geen beech soem se eet aoe ootee 38, 44 SonthvAmerich sso. cnatecniees ioc nope cece ces eleaceyece nye neenaiam neise emer eters 33 South America, Humboldt’s:Voyare to... 425.4. 22/esde sce sche ene hones Sete 198 South America, Method of Preparing Poisoned Arrows in..--...----------------6 127 Southamptons Stocesbip a. a5 +c <jaeieaeaaesecsaitaee Saete ee aces ae eee eiae ane 91 South! Carona css sees sacs So ae alas momiep semi ac) Steno agene eee etepoeetetaete 38, 43, 49 Southerly Winds prevail more in Summer thandn Winter «siscssqsuseeue 2. ae 202 MONUCNMRANS 2-2) jac sas semicce sete males msacrentncete giscianpe souaoblecosine Wapraeeee ao 87 HRal Maritime Adventureiins sacs oseisne.= mi oes aa ae a te peleceaeee a seenceets 158 Spain WS umm oreo se see dcjases oar scskt = sae Soaks ce ials Sonatas sales sabe cisistee ese 189 Spanish HE: xpeditions.ito. New: Mexico.<...s--c ashe ns <a semeneneiacrecteseeie sees 306, 312 Spanish Mackerel... <2 5)isccauiout se ncisise cm sates seen\s eee seer entice ae ema eS 339 Spanish Cras Aen sec eacclsmiaiseeisiscisienaeinalaeomesiwaceearen ta 4ceneemeeacek ae 83, 276 Rake), Hishes OWING... 5-26. aaoaiaseccine meen tmenee BREE eee apt COSEab uece 88, 318 SpawningsGroundsyin' the upkes=n-<:s.cc-escos mcineeleeccisicccnie enon searceetineene 288 Special Locality of Little Planetary Bodies...-......---.----..----Le eas 143 Special Committee of House of Representatives.-..---------.-----------------76 Speciesrotn @amel. Sas) co cinesscs coe) Sonn niin di cjnraimieisnsie a cciatnielsiame'= ciclo eater 101 Species of Animals Suited to Man as a Migratory Animal..---...-----..--------99, 100 Specific Gravity of Gases. (6 en's o-n8 case ooncinelpescwaaaeannianculestitenainem 193 Specimens Illustrating Experiments on Growth of Teredo and Barnacle, &c..-.-.45 spencer, Mrs, Microscope: DYisieve iain oie wm iwininonin= alaieine siinin[asinisinine) ole e=iate ells arr 26 Spenser’s Allusion in the “Fairie Queen” to Virginia...-....-----2. eeeeseae---e 165 Sphyreena Borealis, (Northern Barracuda)... 22+ =.= --c00 cane sacecs cocstecec-<e 326 PS HHO UR D0 Ae Sanne Seeisoce co U Ep OrnODOUOr Oecd coaae teerans coceoS bSceEaeaecr 336 Spot Striped Balloon Hiss... 2s. )ce steam coe asica = ahs stele Se lela ee ae seteeys aisle) Sieisterats 351 SS] SOUR MITE 0 Seen Gee SO OEE IO CRE aI eReR eee an Secor stn ate a6 code eoos DOEEOOOOSE 390 Spotted (Cy bimna) 3-515 cceinm eleiote myeeleinpsiee tein eee sine eerie aatal~ =tae le pate 300 SPORTYS SR J) Re eee Oe co SORE Sere Ueno BEE ace a terrace Arno coi nSrpOPeaE sce SEac 88 Squallst@ aase Ole eee apo cinta ehcp aiare ee ap niaa ol le aoe lel etter cli meee ee 198 SUAS DUO asi oecelc cam deka cota ooamcncinns te ccemenemates See s «tame amet #337 Squeteacue: UL ys oa ee a aan uke dn Eee. oS Sic chomata eee 329 Stampedes, Security against, by using Camels ........---2-----s22-0 enone =-e= 121 Sianleysteviey Communication from < ase. ces,.uo seiete stale wieininiae eases == heat 77 Stanley Jee eIndian Collection by.<i256 aid =o Sohn eiiee sie\e a\~ cleie jam etrake ae mee) atte 26 Shansbubys Capiainere 252 clase cicis aeisialatete < clae eats 15 =.=. rin olay =item natal 83 Stansbury’s Mules Travelled Two Days without Food or Water..-----.----------109 Stans: Catalopues/Otrsssmismo3% -<5.-\ceminias deat see oe 6a =e anemia) Seale iopee ais 145 State, Departniont {2 eee =i <2 secu sok eewa eects = deem Serene ame te 36 Sialepipraries ese auemer ce oes wcities seme ep eeene Mer icc eon pratais 2 cgenaatolets 36 State Records in England, Recent Investigations in.. ----.----.------------+-+----164 Statistics of Library for 1854...--.. .-.. 2202 cons none cece ne cone meee ne eens eeenee 21 i sAUbINe PORE Vc.ccns oo selec 3 cele ob ban Windia aly soma elo qaeti-eabea eee oes 212, 213 Si. Augustines Florida. 20cm oeinn ones eee = ominous odes cteiap ants sea 45 St: Bartholomew; Massacre Of 22 jene-.cnts coosesce ccelecee sae c/anmmnepcaaminniar 123

<<<Page: 730>>>

Page. SLCHI GEBE A One COG DO CDEC SOC TDOONS OCU er Ee COSC ECE ODOC CCCI EE oO. cee eee 183, 192 Staamboat ln troduchion! Ofseos. ces wow cls ceeimcslsss coca ce csc cdacees saeuuseoes 148 Steele Dralhomas Mec .e <2. Loc acen chceciaceioe Vaca s's)s se bes cee sae seeeoes 38, 45, 94 Stevlacoomeceaejessiec saci cee cscs cemaverasem ess bdac Sade csceice me secaecses 82 Stereotyping, Experiments in ......---..-. temesebrcetssccactesdeucseesteweuee 22 SoernOihcenrusiseieesacis sace Uke se ssmaelcmecias ieee COO OCI OODSEE Cop oorEGoEd BaSSoE 43 Steuben, Maine, Temperature at..---..--..---5 Bee C Garis BECO TEESE te ESO OSboor 207, 209 SUOVOUS Dye ess od ccs ase sew So deed Sewacwmaedae dead Sacieecices be neces 39, 45 RUeV CNS HGOVEINODUS Uece~ wc Seige tana ws ss ctssmss terse tee eee toee sacar 37, 80, 95, 96 Stevens: vblenry, books distributed by! <2st sue. 5225) ee. Soe ae See Sooke Sr Stevens lieutenant MAR: Seceaetsce sacs so come tsercrd eee aesersses ise 89 Stickleback sscleees sees react coal ee ad ceed sees tae cicapdocceuemscoe meee tes 328 RULES NO aptamyl OWRSCNGcisisos sscisee samecscad a setea ramen nase sisescioaseeen 331 Suites? Johns Nhanksitoes2. ssscecsces cece aecsvorocccesseensotha sees 318 PLN PRON AV sees eem esses es fea aac cass fase aSaamaiaacadcaaatee ce sees 89 St. John found Camel at Oasis of Jupiter Ammon. .-.--..s5-22-52+ss-+-2-2-0 102 St. John’s to be Admitted into the Confederation. .....----.-.-..----.---evecese 174 Rissinnwrence, Wittds on s-etsed st Luss S. 2k ee sie te aes e oe cb emcee 213 SiO UIsMIVMRSOUL Nas ceoS set nose cemicsccceeemelesee sacle tetcauinleaaoeeie ans seeaae 36, 43, 81 Si ioulss Massourl, Hemperavure iat)... -dascssscceoescsoucesatcstecteacssece . 208 Stn MaryceMinsigne ss waccyemioucelst se cove sore hon coms Sine ce ssa eee ele ae als oaieeeia 81 Stockine Pish-ponds;Pell’s: Method. of 2222s 5222% 22 cesalte sewed soeese tastes ee 321 Stomach ofbherGamel: i escscccss cst coes sesdewae sl icetetecsene sadses Jodelssece 106, 107 Stone ins News Mexico: ssencecemietb acts cick siejerep jaiarelclel cin ae/s aa eee wae ceineinaren te 299 Stoneman Wieutenant .ssoccseeninnsocose sceacsae cewienewe seees Ceol vewscos tees 84 SioLer OTD Seals oan ee cia Sabine cas ctosed seeded Sossscsaeenereecostese 42, 332 Muorer: Pape ate teceeectasoscects, coda naddoece cess saccageeeceeas aeebiee sees 89 Storm.im durope, Example of; by Mr. Russell... 2. -..5252 62-0 0b ce sides e sone 211 Stormont November 12, [S54 . cscs ctesceccl scids cases cose stemenseeteceosasstacels 208 Storms inyNew MexIGO ws a1) <oc.0 sais tow ccinth sc dane sieieteins solace tasecesete eee 297 SLonms Olehebruany led? 522 5. <.csctcacceistoas comtes nos Seieelalesnciiese ciel: «erence 202 SHeEmMe nw Fe culaArines Ol Ms WULOPO..-< os. cca\snce eneinee mans Samere= miles ec see seas 210 Storms, Rain, Clouds, and, Mists at. San Francisco...--...-.-26 c226 sacs eceeee ces ¢ 243, 248 Oe JB eee Soe Se Gaerne Bese OSE pian CSc Ose Ceres: Bescceeceneise oS CCor 81 SomaulisskiivertAumenmats fa\n2 cie.c soe aaa ele a eateote mele = nein mlatinlals euslaterate eter 93 Susrilen-. BarometncalhObsenvatlons:ab..cio~ sa Ssaccocese ota atcic saseee ees 204 OS CTS Ose cere tep ecclc Sim hewn cicie: wis aieteel on clare orale ciah ee eae wtalatatctel atetaleteeyareietete 102 Simin. (Lieutenant andere ceeicis Sa saici jooele somes os war aeen dasa setae =i 93, 96 MAES! Of SUNG a Iams e oo aiacie bsin'o PEO So ais pai Saale csc swale ete qe aataial annie 80 Strang. J. J., Natural History of Beaver Islands by .---------..----------------282 Striped Bass... = 222 20.04 se s5 sase 2 oa 50s ss 06 so edicee ses sosess so5e 205 seen 321 Seryennos; Lexiteras. 2-27 sae Nese sos ose Ssae cnuatssaiaisasasss15.525ee-5=N 127 Strychnia acts upon Spinal Marrow ...---.-.-.--------per AeA. os # one eae 129 Strychnia counteracted by Iodine .....~-.---2-2 -----2 eee eee eee ee een eee 135 Strychnine, Poison of Woorara attributed to ..-----.---. ---------+ ---+ + eee eee 127 Birychnine, Bifects Ol, seco sees sese hence ta isedo coe cde~ oe oose ns eeeeseeaes canm 128 SeOMNOMABAY ccc cewtt eo Sere tee meted stato cede cael neuen adeeteecesen—ae= 89 SiuarishredertchiDsee acme nee seer e! ele Se Spee iE EE See ce 89
Sturgeon, Habits, Manner of Catching. .----. .---2. 202-20 eee eee coer ee eee ee eee 283

<<<Page: 731>>>

Page Raper ois, Hienbenant 3a a eee acne) ac)aa2\cralgel oa etapa emer 296 SGT Ee ee co fect mate rea Sis ala vin ele. tiastn e iates Geeteres ha he Re eh ame 42 Suckers, Habits, Qualities, Method of Catching, &c..--..-.---PSS Se Se ent oe 286 Sucwley rein). alo sais asee PSB God See Der cer DAE BCC SOSOCosG Bete sone oneae81, 82 Suez'to Cairo; Bighty-four Milesse 2: 22. etaais sete bos cela tininsis ne cee enone ea aes 116 Sugar Regions, None in Europe-.-.--.----------.---acid ale se cle seta saeco eS 189 Sulphate of Alumine or Alum used for Serpent Poison..........-----2--.------133 Ralphirret Ot Won sees 2 oe a s.0,as0 t mcveiain auratus’ 5 smapleice deseo eee EES ee 44 BILAN Of MOTOCGO ES CHIMES. « -.o\cn cece op eee ese ee laecen Enea eee a: Sais 115 Summary of Means of Temperature for San Francisco, December, 1850, to January,
TP See ep RSE ee mee NA RS ORE FE BORLAND ee STOR A AM NY 232 NenmerClmate of Califomiay aia: sinaseca ssaeidseweseeuiecsawtne se Seameeaosee 241 Rasamoers Of Spain, Ttaly, QC , << 640 cinac 4 baa¥e ane seiets mane ames a eee Ree 189 Smnmerville, North: Carolina, jus. ecucse mug ol Siawaeatemeds Ras ease SORE ae 44 muntsh of Beaver islands. = 500% gos srosnn ce Gann ale cae.caaaeeecacadesue esse 287 mmpply, Store-shup... 2 oo) 28s Oe ae sae SRY BR SES geek 1h ants OL Surace:Wind'at rest abnight. 00) .\). 25. oe sees See ie A secs 190 Surgeon General U. S. A., Remarks on Natural History, communicated by..-.---291 Surgeon, most distinguished of the 16th century...-....---.------e---eee e eee 123 SUID ene eee Dea Nee TO ets 5 UPL Oe NSN UE Oh al ca ca ee a Se 38, 46 Survey OncRoutesito Pacific... = c-section 80 Surveying Parties, Order and Organization of.....---). ----0s-0ti-cee's~ sacs wecues 80 Susquehanna Steamer. 252.6 seca Se ee ea tae es ee ie ee ee 91 Sutver duake-Galitorntatrozen Over woes se cea cue hel oe ccleins oma aCe ae ee 260 Sweden, mean annual Range of Barometer at...--..----. .----ene nne sone e cone 204 Mameden, West Wilds! Of boos scat. ao sia eareln ame coc mueiscjen arab mange acetee cee 197 Swedish Academy of Sciences ./<)25:<=5.2.<-4s)s2 5's) 2h d cccccmeneesedewese semuee 42 Switzerland: Temperature ins ce. ec ct nas sca tehueecliees ace ses ee eee eeeee 195 MVRCE, COLONEL 5 «5c she see ojos aulouinn, noe 6s amide aa deinclnmin also coe eee eee S 186 Syngnathus Viridescens, (Green, Pipeyish) ..)..-.24 wnivc.ennnnciseceenenabicase eoeeee 351 Synopsis of Wise’s Observations on Aerial Voyage -.......--.---------------225 PS Ni/(tit pao St Si ena Lae Oe REE he EL SSN OL Seal SE 2 UT eee ge erat Aes 45 Syniasaperot Camoliin je s%s5.els ate.cieyc ict a Ae ee Fe fi ee 113 SAT AXON APG SSR cS A ES a Fs a mM et NE RCI 5 Fe Sy ToL Ae 7 Hable for calculating Mean Temperature... o-oo cceaunaens-ccoud oewieewe 234 able-lands:in Mexico ss .jrcssecionec acsmceis occ cee er ee ee ce aan eee 280 Pachtrawan, or hitter, borne by. Camels s oscs.as aioe some eters <<. aimahd pes eiaeeee 119 Wanye CAPRIS <= 2 a5 Soak ae Oe cite ee ni ie Ge a IESE, wai ok dhe Stasi eee 85 MAGI GUC). sete ei in's win jo ceiS Saye ee ota a as 5) ie ia, 2 I 316 ‘atlors; Lemnodonigaltator, knownas.. ce stoseseweees «~~ sete ase eoeee 308 TR CAN GAM a, 2c aateta tees, mw. c 0 nyaemicfeie etait ate resco SR te a mc hhely st a 39, 43 ABOU TOG wo ae es Lae sie' wn So divi cin Seniesa aR ERED eines, caelerceiae Gece eee 39, 42 PRAM aul PAs (ae a0 cena eet See mimo che ha ata) ana te Mee RC 2 a I Ls aE 87 Tangencies of Circles and Spheres, a Memoir on .----. ------2--1--00+ --5* 200" 13 Tanjore ‘Pill, Arsenic in theworm Of. <<<. <6 cemacemeres paca exes ae Seen 131 J HAR ae NER Ee NA ee re ee ee aoe See Seo tog &5 UAE ao sinc stole aie Sal SEO wie ial ets Sek ee ees cleo eile ey Ae Sec eee 121 Pautoga Americana, (Tautoz, Black-fish). << siecceneso<< scene scteas =o <e aeeemerne 340
Tartary, Camels used for military purposes in... .... 2-2. ene ene nee cone cen ees 118

<<<Page: 732>>>

Page. antary. ohe-humpeds Camel found ines eet see a wees cee ee lan I ee 101 PAV OGNIOI Us aero oa siete team te ae ee Sake SR eT ee eh 8 Susie cowiae 103 Taylor, Hon. N. G., member of Investigating Committee of House of Representatives. ai TGR ES sc aoaode oseec SSS eCOCUEO ee Ee Mao SUG natOTa Ba oeO Geass Bogccoora.ad 37, 84, 85 eelographhine-Wlarm ae eset aes Snr et su Semel ct ala nin Sin wisiels cies eiateje real 147 Melooraphyfor Cities: deseribediiact_ seats ss pace wale see sae aioe cee ab eectoneeeees 150 Telegraph, differences between common and the municipal ..---.---..----.-----149 Telescope, first imported inte the United States..---......----. ---2-2 +--+ eee 145 Memperature, ate omM bayrarcecee ela (-iereiiesceteoacebic vet eentceccieawarilascseisionte 219 Memperature: of: San rancisco intl853.,4 oie ss coos slscee = ce cioselceus boce weels 253 Memperature:at Philadelphigcco.ccosects cose caenderaceniee Siero tesisaticiienal s 220 Temperature on East Coast contrasted with that on the West of the Mississippi.-.-. 209 Temperature at Greenwich ......---..--....-Malt KAe i by asc gi sSireieielANaoae a = ene ena 215 Temperature of United States west of the Mississippi adapted to Camel ..-..----. 116 Memperaturerote CAMOMMIAs si alece mee cae he caa soe e ce tame eine does eeee neomier 231 Wemperatuneandsbressune! CULVER: seco. 2 gA2, ac cese secs stosterisseesweleseser 206 Temnodon Saltator, ( Blue-fish, Horse Mackerel, Skip Jack). .-..--+-++ ---+ ---+---337 endency,tolocal’seli-sovernments< <cmeccsc coco osicio sini ecules els nw a= ~ omoaiseees 160 sTETINGR SOG Newceere inte meres cee cee) Le Ser ealemee bl eee oe wines ao beeeiacner sees 38, 45, 49 MESON OV APO AtHDOMD BY) sania. (6y aroleoiaro sisio cio ecisminialdieSicayecioct™ dpiereis emiolslalcustacs 219 Teredo, Growth and Ravages of, and Protection against---.-.------.----------39, 45 MOT ATE ORSIS se o% sey Selo Say hs ti Seisonmiaese aictaayn caret ameuacisiate wis ays iatstelaapaidiora tinea 43 Marrestriali Macon Otismis cs 4. cretion a mais cinee ae ciuiec base yma cle ce taee ma el ec mmpe eis 16 Memra dels Wag Oi a die aici ei cinieemata wc sieasias New yeisacieene Sic DE SOW Ae ONE CRs 273 Met asia sees cost te Sie ei csicae ot cb nein opaaciele a seo oevs eae satan etaialtacwiae ieee 299, 302, 315 errecdonMungidus,(Noad-/tsh) sesame Mot’ nteemnceisesecscnlose seems slltwicisce ae 352 Texans, Visit of, to Gran Quivira..........-. pote ced de Sins ses ekes ne cen eee 304 PRECOUBEIV OLS coe ice etea cons aometercie Susie eideiseit cocinioacieecicce saws eee eee eee 81 AN GNeA ee ee Once fe ale Se cn Ss oe i A DL SO 38, 39, 44, 46, 49 HGXAS GUIVEV SPIN se soso nate ates eee ence wae eee ce eb as ouens Meee an aes 86 MexasPe antes Seed siOber vets oasiac ode disc ear wiote cee acl See eens eee ok a pe 44 Neves MannersrandsOustomsot theraccmame sens cave Coe Soe oe nes See Lees 310 Hbialia Oi bitio haere ee ee ee, eee CO ea eee ole on 3 144 MINER OT ye Sie aie ee pm he A A AE Lyon URE A CD Sah Tae Sic Sal hare AN 72 Thermometrical Observations at Sacramento, California. ccc. .------eeccee ences 265, 266 MT EMMIS ORDUGO Pease oe arc, win nists ctalciers terete Sami IS SSIES ate ce a ee 142, 144 Miermometrograph vObservations, with. .22<5.<s2seslSee ooo seee s 2. eSaeieeeeeaees 267 Mneories: respecting A ciiomof Poisons... -225e 2 Jose sae es eases eed. so8 129 Pheory: of; Olbers:respectingAsterocids......:dgsesesocss aase econ weseadeneetices 138, 141 Bheory,ot.GradualiCondensationtce: Jesais as ueeae = ce seeks oe eee ce eeeena 144 | Thirty-eighth Parallel, Pacific Railroad Route on..---.2----.enecssavecs -neeee 82 Thirty-fifth Parallel, Survey of Route to Pacific on the-.-.....---.----2 cone oes 83 Thirty-second Parallel, Survey of Railroad Route on the..........---.--------+-84 ADV Uaal Ay Bee ee een ee ae ce here atc: 2 Le Sa LO RR SI ee ere AIOE 5 190 ahornbury; N.C. eDemperatureaties sen casssasaete sess et ae sone Se qceerasckleena 209 HY ANON OOEFYSPe iw Oa NY FeVSTLO NE NAM Lael Beer eeS 7 RU gn SL De SD RRS VEE ete ON TER 38, 45 REAL OLIN G caidas cas cera dale saya Suk oes es stite ce Ware caliese sae ee 349 Threelereat Slopesol, Mable-landaa. 4 sae weces elk eu ecos ec Heeb aa este 280
Dhonder-clouds coming tocethor 25-24 is2 <6 .dbasinatncaeacidisise/claemedidacbeee ree 226, 228, 229

<<<Page: 733>>>

Page.
Thunder only heard twice in San Francisco, in 1853 -.-....--..---HSE Aare aes 253 Mhundoerin. California: Na Sey ule aie eels Seieia alo niwlaiela celal ofa sien ietatc ohne aye asta te lee 258 Thunder-storms less grand in Europe than America...--....-----e-e4 ----ee-e199 PU UNCER SCOTMB cfole wer dee elasaitisalnicle aicielavere See ciisis sem era ciate smelt eae eine 197,198; 225 Phunder-storms have. two, platesiof clouds... --...s0-+,-s<0= 4-s<=seemice acicidns 225 Thunder-storm, Phenomena of, during aerial voyage......-..-------+--+ -----224 (Phuringian, MOLest cis cese wasn ste was els Soe oee eee cern eee eye aeineeee 274 RTP DOO! Mabe riy ce iee siete 3:cis o10,0 cetneisaiS.o a Mele ee Oe ns See eel ye ae patna eee 114 PiennAs; Descriptlon Obese). s 22s wise alsicisiesdiccesteinc geese gasses cee een ea eee 127 fimes, New, York Daily; J. W: Simonton, editorot. -223-s.c2 0k e eee eke este 72 HBIMK OWS sents cco cect ccs As oetho cee msaes or itnek cl see i eee SNe meeacmes 117, 118 Lamber ini New Mexico:.icss.des 8 aguipe cites hes coehionk sje tbdep eade meme 299 MMH AN WMI dicts seein Selesccte ele ee tots wcrc aban alors eects Bae ae eT a ee 81 Mond -fish jccwne occe seeder sen Oe Awa in shy. ha. AS Wee ee See A es 340, 352 Vouds, North American, Account of-s2222 222 ..0cse cocaine case ste seek Seleeee 40 Popographical: Maps, noeessity Of:2 ses sess. (5. awe as ee anaes 272 Morréon: sss less lsa ee ae eee ee es ee ter of ae NE ee 3 304, 316 Morrey; Dr Iastas ess o288 2 oredr ses asses ses ses eee ee ee 94 POKICeN Is 22 SAS eS ae PS Oa Ea FO Wine ey Aa ty Neh, Py BIE ow Mp EN a A RR 182, 184 Pornado of @hensy= 2: esis ey cess svsscs wee ced excdsee i eee eee 229 Montilag fee See ae PS oes na ee keh Oise a ark ee Se cae 308, 311 Totten, General, Resolution relative to Building..............--.---------+----76 Totten, General, Commission on Building Material... ...-...----. 2222+ -2-2 eee 18 Towers, John T., elected Member of Building Committee..-..----...-.--..-----76 Toxicology, Principle of, well established......-..----.---.-----Ss Pectersaascene 135 Mrachytic mountains 2) 2 soeas sdecS oe ete ee ccddiceus Cree ee ee ee eee 280 PUNCHMOLES SPMNOSUS)< oa2 sic Se acu sins sdeca's se otiececewerleme See een ce aa eae 336 Pende: Winds: Originof-s22.iniscisds Secs: aaseadee ot oecace seca sae eae . 186 Tradition respecting Mines in New Mexico....-.....2s-0« aceoe cennaues -eceeee 312, 313 @raming of thewCameles.<)255: so SS. eee cw el bo ca eee eee ee Ce 113 Eranslation; of Spanish Account.of Treasure. 2. 4s« ..i5 sceceyusc esa es Diadissee) ee 313 Transactions of the American Philosophical Society.......---..-----------+--+ 202 navely Hane or, by Camels... us c.ecss se odes het ated cote aeeertieeees.. ssl eee 110 Braveller in’ California, Account of Poison bys:2-5-222205 tesess sacs wcaciseseneee 127 Prayelling. with Camels’ 202 snsac seened 2 aaa Ri se eee 116 Rreasureyr, Statementiol Minsnces-t0) BOaE sssccactco sentence +:--5 sata ae ees 74 ‘Ereasures supposed tobe in-New Mexico.o. 2.02. .ssSe eek. ccs eee 304 Treatment of Poisoning by Serpent Bite and Woorara.....---.------------.----+ 130 reatment of Serpent Bite in different Countries....-. eS SESE ea ommend HokG I3L Treatment for Serpent Bite and Poisoned Arrows.--..-------------seeeee eeee 135 Prebizondsssat ssa ease 2555 kesh ee Lies oe 8 CSE 121 WP ONCOL a bia rahas ators ai crostatNei ore oataret aor Sak hea tend De Rar cial lie oo ep se re 84 Brincheres Pass css orset 2 = = <1 ares Soe Hed Ae 2) JRE see eee Sa 83 ‘Praal iby Suby spare ost tise slat sara aie ais WUE eee etic eon ke caicnee Bem emekne cls 159 "Brive hOMy GOLUB: <5 caps set Horst he See Sealey SUS eh nade rete dint «Be ete apse a ayers 91 Eninity River, Thunder Stormarat sje acco cicero narcosis crerara gia wi eene ae ae eee re 256 MBI A io a ese jens Haters ohetatere pe iete ratane tal tra pots cS gu cie ict coe RCN AR See 38, 45 Tropical Countries have most Rains......----.-----++----+-----+ -2-+ e222 eee 244 43
PRO mb fOr NOW MOT asa ews ttcic a oie ate twinseGicte reteeie scotch tetera Re oe ee

<<<Page: 734>>>

Page. routs Method. of Catching, snatching, Giese eek eels Yoke. isa Sue aad Minny brid Kes o1eubeMAN LAW isbn ss meee allo cyala ce aera etch ape ea we 37, 38, 45, 97 U, RTS) CBYEW I RENAE rele Seles Seger es Pe Oe ent FN UP RE OU 1062 86 Mackahoe River: cvwinite Perchinss. saee cee A cee Vell, ok pee aie 322 MUDEKOTs OVOTO Ve Sse atest tno ie ie 2a asc eens NOMI oes See dls Es ad ira sear 95 PNR OMAN ES NOUNINM a CHIE VEU Dace oeusmcioee eaeasemle Soe cease eee oe ee 163 1 SEL Se irae a eA ee ai a MI MN LC Pa SAE TAM nae a! 37, 84 UMA Coe Sires a aera SEL SRSee Ree er Man RAN et act? Sita | 84 Somer AC OlONG! SONeDl.cdemiosan saciceo soc wew monbas ce mses ence Coe ees Cave teat 38, 45 plinmanes ela Mesald 6) Ossesiscicsy: Sains cracker eee se ots he cE et ge 304 ee adele chen ohn oe epic an hem eye aks Saicre Came ote PERCE SEER ERE KEE 37 AinncomantCameluyeny, powerul..2 s5-.stes<c ec seeesec cee cath eee eee Ae 113 Surcomani@amel obtained at Aleppo.:...5-2 2c. Reese ee ee 121 MITRE COMA SS minss re ernSe orite we CSO es Se Sat ee eee ace AEE iil Gerkeysirst imported into Hngland 122... Seceie/cctiec socces cesses ISIE 163 Penner PE TAlessO Gwinn Wisse. tele Getkh owaaious seek eueeiones sees tee eee 95 ET W eRe es sck occ cGhate deine tenet aeietie ceeeantt te ee bee Etre eee eee 38 muscany, Camels domesticated+in <cia2te. sheeeccoz tee Sees ec ese eee Tote oe eeoe 108 WMNgcanye.Sscsee soliiesScapcitiecas Soces ese hes eucesesesssh eels edeees sesece cess 121 Two: Maxima and Minima of Barcmeter-.....-. 2-22 .-2s-0--2-2cesses ecese ceee 218 Tuscaloosa, Alabama, Curve of Temperature and Pressure for.....-.-.-----.----206 Umbrinaclburnus; (Cheng. Wis/y) isaac ate note ae shoe mec sieaoeeeles nal veloe ees stele 331 Unanimity in Religious Creed required by Confederacy......---...-..----------176 (WncompaoremNivers.. =e sercnedee = sachet cea cee esate ee mea nees sabes same 83 Unfavorable Condition of Climate of Western Continent to the Camel ........---17 Uniformity in Lower Orders of, Creation. .---.2.2-cscs en sacces sees scsceelsoee 162 (niform Temperature of Califomiano.2 242 1-220 canes seee~stecies sane ceeeeee 233 Union County, Arkansas, Fall of Rain at....-...----.--Yeh Genes euo koe 244 WnexpendedyIncome-onvhand ..25--< .25520. <io ce semesee Seco cece sees islhinsiste 9 United States Military Academy, West Point.......---------. ------+--+ --35 WinitedsStatespeatent:OiGO-.-.s..ccca acing soca aocasaae locos sceleeesesatmeceareeicl 39, 36 United States and Mexican Boundary Survey ..---.------------+-------------80 United States Agricultural Society, Meeting of....--.-----------------------s ' 27 United States Naval Astronomical Expedition......-..----.------+----+--+ -+-36 Binion the wIWecuunessOnerac.. o-ccacamaniccisios aisncc seleosisaie sinisi> aio ome elo eresetiets 156 inion; Phe how..formeds seen <s vies+ tees leew csacleins sel see i a\-inian ee mlseiebetnte 158 United Colonies of New England....-...----------------+ 2222 eee e ee eee eee 176 University System of New York.--.--..---------22+ coe oe eee e ee een e tee nes 51 Minponndvikee teste ca een ot eta. 2 castensncincem(eine te onepeeetsse= oasis 92 Upham, Charles W., Communication from. -.--..--.----------+ e--eee eee ee 7 Upham, Charles W., Chairman of House Investigating Committee..-..----.-----77 rans Discovers 0f.. saji= ose an s~ 4 as anoa samen esaea mens! sme ssmeiem en 137 Mispallata Passi see jo oo ok SS on hcg o See Cle tele aatateiae 90, 91 Utah, Heavy Storm of Rain and Hailin.-.......----..-----------02+ e222 222° 256 ialityof the, Camel: 2o3\2 35.50 N48 << = oisnn caisanisisicisscinosasisss\ se were eeenes 114 Valley of the Lower Danube has Summer Rains.-..--------------+--+ +--+ +--+ 117 RVI TE Ones fae er re on ee nares Minute ap ieee io Iotepoaists afalnintav=te inlet las eiaiatan 276 BW eaten Glance et eran ace Ma 1 areal ai eh sietoateta stalin opeyeiaiet 297
Waa IDE eee ays Beet SA ae ee eee eee ae Serer rodeo sos 89

<<<Page: 735>>>

Page. Wandalia; 'Sloop-of-war -s<ciseteneerostce ene ee seme Som oee eeleeecinceles ea ment sae 91 Variation of Temperature at California...--. --.. -20-cccce cone conse eense el aus 242 Werlegated Goby 222s soos ene cole acc hosisssed cemccmicce eens SO eau ao oc hos 339 Wesas of Santa Clara 2 2s5 jee asccecus owed ccienes Osene eros eerie ae seees 85 Venom of Serpents used by Indians on Arrows. ......------+--+ --ee pee eee ee 126 Wenom of ithe Rattlesnake see. | <o< sce newt ee wimece ee ccin apelein mia) alain iavelaialete mllal=iata ct atmte 125 Venom oi Serpents msedsbydMiant. $o/2o2) 2 co,cieste selaig selec wie cehsieme a= melee savers ar 124 Vevom of Serpents cannot be distinguished by Chemical Tests from Saliva.-...-.-. 124 Wiens Oruz seeeser ees cose sccccaam. soteincsis cine Heminaitinveseeisel ace evene meatier 277 Vera ©ruz Norehers) at ccs scescmce seme se we cis miermceis arene athe lela sternite ae eRe tetes 203 Wermontss soe soe seis ie Uae eee ee ee Se ae ee soe ucae ene seteieees 47 Wermont, Auriferous D epositsy0l, sss a2 .caeeoSeiteecieam a ooceneele eevee testa tees 39, 43 Vermont, remarkable; Brown Coal-bedsof-. 2s 2c 222) 8ssencc 2 needa aceeme 39 AVETBAILOS: BRAN CO we cat hea heer een aeitenas = caveman ssyeatsisemiatete testa water ranean 212 Siesta, DISCOVELYs Olssa eateries caee oncatasaalec co cietacicseinteenia tea aa = teretae of otaete 139 WertebratawitenorusyOny 2S eset ec wnctsisca cit acidenpelewsniaen = seamen eae ame er aeaereae 40 NVATNG GHNES SOON a siceecien sion aice mimes sincme sans loe aac ea ianieea Me einataiiaeenetataerts 89 WiracoMbritish: Steamer). 2. .ciceacosciias joes a ateom ese aan sean aeiate emt eetanrs 93 WWANOINTA Ss se ees esis tt a alcchaaeoainle naa safioe oa,~o1s)=\selataaiel sinha elaommiars anionee a aeneta 38, 48, 49 Virginia, Arrival of First Colony in.....-----------------ee 2-0 eee eee eee 166 Virginia, Title to an Indefinite Region of America.....--. .2...----+ ee 02+ -eeeee 164 Virginia, Mentioned on first page of ‘‘The Fairy Queen”... ....---.-----------165 WOIGOY Beton See Sec geee -toeiees Be ceS Sdbaaect sate Seana eis a eee 189 Volney, Explanation: of ‘SnowjStorm by... So scioe ose cco ocieeccss wncceeee sees 199 Moline Vs Distributionvofisc.o2k sbosiccciee sere eceke Be sewas ce on dos aeeeeeoes 36 Vortisch, Reverend Vin. «sccacccs ca sacdac toed occa edocs eee ese ee epee ee cee 39, 45 Voyages! Planned) by Prince Henry ..\o252 sesc coe sc ccelesceiceces saeelices sete set 158 WiclIpes th dlwns se ctoriaacyeniaclcisleo)aacjesainwinaiotemalacintae Tae ntase hiatal ecee eee eit 38, 44 Wade, Major, Lestins Machine invented: bY. <2) 35 ens <'0 sce to oeeeea eeocieein aisle 18 NADSRLCHOE ASS Seite ye ajo = = Scie eteiclae ciimolalnis/aciaeawscia Gam siete emeieeemioni=tarac aaeeae 83 Wiailes; ‘ColoneljBitl./Ciscjo. cd et ss so ced, ccieisjeincinie;o) cinisiotaaeetieeoe al Seletasiemes 38, 46 IWiales: i idcjrs ecice ache tetas emi evebicd cueneuseeel eas ceuebeaes aoe ls ee eee 162 Wicilla=Weallaj oot onct as toes ssc cte sree tianccda ele tees Seinen oe eiee oc Sete aera 81 Walker's Pass iutscesiesietssmiaic sale Seas hen Settee ee es os 84 Walsh; Mr., Balloon Ascent by ..s<s,scedeese sesais desc ase enw 3 Eee eee 196, 204 Wanderings in South America, by Charles Waterton......-...-----2-ee----e128 Warmest Month in California ........ 2.2.2.2... Walesa s Soe Oals die SE eer es 257 Warmest Month: of the Mears). esis sa-te see seek eos ee hee cee eae eee 233 Wr ONAMIMONEel. 2: 52S SU wis et cei Mah aaa it wc wn aateeee cas urea 86 NV eaner/s Ranch oj cele einine anys gamaiewrcene deca noe See eR bros CURR Gees 7 ae ers 84 War, use: made of theiCamel ins 2522 chU ew ee eS. A A a 118 SC LE ee CE ae a AMC Re TL Nee MM A Were M to Hat Ly 30, 36 Washington and Lisbon, Winters Compared... ..--------eee eeeeee coe e ones 196 Washington; Directioniof @hunder-clouds, ats secc.cs 52, + aeee comers oe ee eee 260 Yasin Stn MISSiS Bip Ne) ores to cid arses ia crars cin ciarctatla erersatare siaralslaersiac eas aR 46 Washington Monument Societys s.-nso soko Sean Nee os eA eee 64 Washington; Roch-fish Chief Staple: Of 2.2-0\cssieonieee wn cuicercnewa cose 321 Washington, Temperature at.----...---.------Pus beegnatd tunic mere eae 209
Washington Territory..... FREE BIC BOO COO ROOCISUE FE RISSE Coc oC BOciEcoInGOCaQ\RCDHoL 81, 82

<<<Page: 736>>>

' Page. Wachuveton; eavelsOh-s22. tate Sos jos cleus ees verses sack Jae caceoes coceabas 169 water moter described -2=e2 vee evellye sien Newb Le haha A Ry 152 Waterton, Charles, Statement by, respecting Woorara...--. 2... .----wcoce woe 128 VCOrWitch toleamMersss tera ceeiuieame seks onset seek Ue jee Pe ee pee 90 MURUPHCCATIVOS cea cacccmat ot aese GA Uee Matlstewes ssccs clea cenesen men Sete eeee 88 Wijeakefinheecsete tie cate sue Sea Ae ik ees ek ae Late Pe ee ae 329 Weather of February, 1854, at San Francisco..-....---..--c---ececce wees ene Q54 Wieatherotacantl ranciscomtor loo |sceese tec scmec ceeees cee react acoueens canoes 251 Weather eculiartttes!ofsinzMurope. ssc. sccc tec Weccccmcersceseseccnecs eoceee 210 WED ODI bE tt cece eae Ro kbes ORR Re NE bul SON, ea ee abs sce hale 38, 46 Webster; Daniel; a; celebrated Fishermat .22. sci oi). .ccccs ccus ceccee cece cces 321 Weight ofva Cubic'Footvof Air at Greenwichs.o262 2222.2---. foc. coed cee eccnce 217 Wieicht-otsBoxestsentabroadsasssemeas coonecesehe sl nec. s eee eee 32,130 Weight of Cubie Foot of Steam calculated... .:--.222-2. 0.0. 22+-22cees seeeee 192 Myeiht onthe @umoel si hee SF ateie Leche gee Eel Anh uly eee Soe 113 Weight of Water in a Cubic Foot of Air at Greenwich......---.-----1----..---. 215 Wells, Hon. Daniel, Member of the Investigating Committee of the House of Rep-
MERON GBULV OSS corse oes ener ete SR Se SS ee Se Sa coemee tars Hactystots sie 77 Westerly aWand: cause ottcoldeuet ties es ect waco ee ccacslae we ase talcwisin/easicy aes 196 Western: Adrica-aE xplorationiolsscsetacses eecls cmaw ecemioc cer sceues enisioe oases 92 WiestenmeuMissouriexploration in. Se oses Sete Shem acietsccien oe ecicicee seco eciera ate 88 Wiest lndiatislandsHMunricanesinves coos tos 2e Coste hotest eciciceciseacwe sees 187 West India Islands to be admitted into Confederation with the Thirteen Colonies -. 174 Nesbelndires EuUnriGanes Obs Satie sean se tvs sen eelcae ten ccis cece ce demeisesice sie eeiasces 198, 199 IWICSIFEGING Soe ee eee Dace ee ata o sca ce island onicinen canes cteeacia cess saicisyss ue 30 ACSI DOLL ae trem mae Ree erie OER ee Roy Ne Cnein ROC tein ota alam cininie ease mepsietas= 85, 87 West Winds preponderate at California...--....---Rae att cata a pa at 240 iyMihal eral cocusro teed oe me Nan ue ame NENTS OSES. case cece sem eeciseeees 38 Woplewmrentenant A. Wien itis nsesetaces Solos eolcetos tone ncnereses 37, 80, 83, 86, 96 Wihitppleis#RouteitorPacificssfe8asc Cate oss cee ate oe Pee So coos ence eeenine 300 WHIP -Stingenayeesne ssa cscasccclscec tees ab occiseccae cee ete ae Seleeceanncseeces #337 NVyhinlwindsinvArabia and Adrica 2s t2 wi ebeb cent es sogicceses necceee cscs secs 187 Wihitaker;-Erofesserd.; = Tuectures by 22.) ssc252 S02 025223. 2occ2. 5 ooo oe ie eee 27, 28 NAY OWRRS IY Ope eae Ac 9 ll a ep Re Ie ed Ao er Ae eg ee man ice 83 WyhitectishtatiSinoe Sin cates) la5=!o= 5 Scns seeianicie sci Saetee eicteomielcne's alse « melnlepetniats 337 White-fish, Method of Catching, Habits, &c...-.--------2220+ ene eee eo ee eee eee 285 WihiteMulletascsee So eee es 2c bh eka oe Sea cteteiste 5 = 339 IWihhitePerchs2= si. 8 eases aes ose sass aeeiens ects hes ce eoe ce peas semeieeeccecs 323 Wiinterczin cuBaintssesese see eeere: ey ols oe 2 oS eee ce eetie eae se menrect os siemens 39 Whitney, J. D., Catalogue of Minerals, &c., collected by.--.-------------------387 MWaldeAnimalsotbeaverwlslandstssaccn os nce saoees cael samo oeeno en sccsoclssemes 282 GVW Gate ocala se ee PS eT Lia ee ee ee WN Pe oS OY Sele letenmesiers 38, 44 WaldtPigeon, Flights of2o222scseeis sce .ss0ccccccee sess che stil sss. -eeasae mee 99 Wild Rose Pass, Wild and Romantic Scenery at---..---.. .---------+---------277 Willard Shab) /Chankstoesseceheeees cs sewene ake Beet seh e euise Seteeee ie ates 318 Walliam) the! Condueronessaecnes se moree sis sise ss cle culainssiemmces earns taeettalae ate 161 Walliameons lieutenant krsSess sees dere Genie eos acmcelsei= oon eceet seem 37, 80, 84, 96 ROR NO An GAi Gis 5p cote. s auc e tise Daal cba wikia Sasa ee eee aeeselaelats 89
Wilmington, Delaware, Fall of Rain at .....-+-alaysaishel mialelaie) meters say Sieaicte Maiaieta metals 244

<<<Page: 737>>>

Page. Wilson, Professor, Models, &c., Presented by..---.----+ --0-200 woe 2 ween ences 26 Wand /atuGreenwichesccc seen seer eeecee selec ns cececaom a een eee eee etal 219 Wind: ab Sacramento. Califommiayo 2 <j) <c-1rales ieee re sania erate telee ls 268, 269, 270, 271 Wand. Direction of during Rains. 20/550) ac)scce sim cesetenae soho ee sel see meaier steer 249 AWW fi Shia Sioa): co wc pee ace rata icine Sloe ata o eee mie minis atde, satelite uci preiem ats terete aetna 341 NWind, Horce Of nat iebuadelphia 222 5 oi smccisa cee minnie aie lsle em eraiefeiamiemene aia aia atalale 223 Winds; and Currentsiofithe Ocean. ---...0. acc a\onepytein-yclite wale ics meee eeemeeenens 91 Whands\at Philadelphias coo 32. sais cie tosis de se corel seni ctale miel cena acta ele 238 Vins! COUTSOLOft Macteyene s otc «sin nae Seas a, diese Siels -smne salto yee eerasiiveeminieets 186 Wands, .Causerot Coldness;of Westerly... 52 -5--\2-ceneocieecuiceascsseeieccaaoeee “196 Winds: “Direction: of, in United States’. << 3..o22</seaman tocit-emeertsoe ae seer 189 Wines’ during:Storm of November 12... 2520). 22.22.2228 nhe acini tomes oie aise 210 AWN SN SCOtAN ds ca2ier<ayoseheyeis ciate o's a onic trarsidela om eleyieeeiele Ristanioel aaciele a eaeee 211 Wandsin' Winterin United States... ....ciscis-jse ost eee nstna ec chaaem ye ceees aeeeeee 196 Wwandsvot Californias e220 sin itiaisa eisai) Sos Saisie os Bove ee eens eee Ae ReL eer 236 Winds, Reductions by: Professor Coffin). -2-. ceciecinsce sh toceesiseeke sce cece 189 Winds, Relation of, to Elevation of Barometer, the Temperature and Humidity -.-. 263 Winter Plound ety: 2525). <<: smjajesie cieitiersisiesi amis com(onicie aislecomeete asc eee 349 VNnter‘ot, 1849—'50 an!San. M'ranclsCOiia552-6 %sesis 2s 3 as Saco saeyee t ocepoace aeeeee 245 Wanters');Causelot Coldinc United) States'-cci0ceescaciclermmisoremawsresocesee cee 196 WAS CONS e ee ine Bare tse sot cmeletes amwe crete wis saree mise teaser 37, 38, 43, 44, 50, 51 Wisconsin, Hx plorations Of secs seme delim es cewelacis «cee aeteeceme sem ee aeeae 16,88 Wisconsin State: Agricultural) Society 2 2.2.5. tscjoc0.<5toosnjsodion nels neaeessese 35 Vase. John? Balloon Ascension wy s sciec net e seine so, saree ofenss eerctacaee sos S eee ee 224 Wise, John, Dr. Hare’s Remarks on Aerial Voyage of. .-..--------------------224, 230 NViswallotowhinckhy:.ciccsc'sscjncncsisejeccaeseeae eeasistincs sapionssiee seems 176 Witte, Hon. W. H., Member of Special Committee of House of Representatives. -. 76 WiOTRIV ET cfs aac Sracies cin oe cicls Scim weaieieieie Sao cise siacioc ee ein eee SEO ee eae 88 Wioollaston' <2 -s<iccsss Steak Le esata oa het tee ich ain cite wise rable de ea stereos 138 WHGIV ES = Sait wc cine sininie clseyeigeeicisveic micewjee! selae wee a Meee eae eee Ceenee ecm eiaia eee 38 Wioodhonse Drs oct a mc ciaweialte aero acae wee ae cic oe ee eee eee eee 94 Wrool of. Cashmere Goats. .<< sscseocsoscciiccecotee hens Seen epee ee eee meee 114 WroorarapDescription Offi. i cicee aninctincinbiecbed wee aarheeetes sats ctoaeeee 127, 128, 129 Wioorara innocuous; when Swallowed:: <2...cs5 sa 5en Soe sete eos ce cones ones 128 Wioorara,, Opinions: respecting. Polson f=: ..<2<= 222 soccee-ce (a> s<.neeeoeee ene 127 Woorara, Puison of, does not depend onsStrychnine ). ses Secs ook See aes 128 Wioorara; Quantity of, required.to. cause. Death.~.o2 os soeqcceecons Loco concise eee 13: Wioorara, Preatment of Poisoning by-.o5 se eoneabeesasewace ccs nleeee Sencieeeeeee 130 NIVOLCORLCT UMASS ose ona ccice Sere ee ee sen ie Sy a ly 35 Wrorkidoneintithe Wilu sem :. oa) te Sic eens Nee 40 Wounds or PoisonedeArrows as sects ale a hiyeceie a cee x che ee 123, 135 MEICHG, WCHATIOS Sacer ccee Soajeon cide mle cewek eae tin, <)o wk eeenee eae 89 nicht Tieutenantweb. Gece: seers ie 2 ln a leer a 37, 38, 46 Wiaurdemam!iGustavusscosesencs= cocoa oc SNe ee o Seep eh eae ee: 37, 38, 39, 46, 97 AWayM ans Rap eae om acaeelecick Se cisteaeiin sere eene eee See ese eee 38, 46, 64, 65 Mellow Catanxe: cose shames oto oi Se othe me tlem cay leet meee 336 Mellow: Creek Ohio? eee aee eeste ee aoe oh aie eee | S52 i i ee a a 44 Yellow Mackerel). ioe etches ooo asia os diay e Sate ame aay be nia tense ee 336
Yellow River 88
seat ete want am we emo FOB SAB MMe BME HEF eRe BOs FOS ORB OH PO EHHE OHH owen

<<<Page: 738>>>

: Page Wolo WAS LON OMEV Ole eee fc ela ns ale sinle ore otelalclal sisinie o[ainla tale eis ere nju/olatalewia) Staveley iat Pgs) Leela? Yond, Rev. Thomas, Description of Woorara by.----...---..----.-------------127 Young Men’s Christian Association, Lectures for..-..-.---.------.-PAR ss 23 Zanzibar Copal. ..---~ ---222-2 cee n-n ene e penne ene ne en eee cee eee cone 44 Zeuglodon ..--------2 eee ene ee ene ene eee cee eee eee cee eee ones 44 Zone of Small Planets between Mars and Jupiter...--...... ---. .200----22 eee eee 137 ZOO WEN CLAN TG NT VeRO BebA aca teacoo COOO CORSO EUO SOE SSeOCOCr CeSe cape Beno 33 LOSIORG MITTS BAG aap aeol oon eco MEOBUO Dotbes SccempbO OGE™ CoD ACEOecoaaao mode 319 OUT SS peas BORA BOSC OO BERG IOUS cROT COS COO DOOBOOOEOE CDC UansobiCets pesoEeesas 94, 300 Cyonenay WalleUs mance ateetse ately tee ae onan siealan loans sie sicko mieeiacisoes *337
Zaye HOU ew DIVO lice sid tte sae a aia be sine ala ciwlalnle ainin/= ovelnface eluieya to a eno elelale winvoine *337

<<<Page: 739>>>

af if : oA whe » PE Got ellos
te i is Ay t* ‘i \

<<<Page: 740>>>



<<<Page: 741>>>



<<<Page: 742>>>



<<<Page: 743>>>



<<<Page: 744>>>



<<<Page: 745>>>

‘ ae eee 4 se | MEG Nn é yey i) yi Died) AA PR Sack f ere AA Nera dicta / r Lis Y et Na $ \ wit | P Ws NO As DeSean wT a Ther verte Ai Mawr | “4 ja fh Wee ‘ Hl OO DA) \ it | " Mi A ees : ts MAME Al 4 i J of Wiad Jt OL ASP ope Z y " is
x’ Pe ee GO EMO CUM MN ci MM: N AS MR IM MI dN aa i eA cic PRACT Laan NM
AN Nd : \ . 4 : ‘ fat £3 ] Ww vi
wivia
Wage YOY egy
v\yj
aaa = <<
v.. ' i 1 Mie n ia, hy Sy ies 2 \ YW Jy a, } 4 Wig P Fy Stal BN i AS Ng MAY MIN ; V
UO LAUAUY wy
eve WAV wR ivi tit Wy iy
VV Wee { t : »
WiiUNy oy VewOee

<<<Page: 746>>>

CeCe
wh js
ro <i
; \y
ma a
) Boe Neh B ~ 7) (eerie ea eating] p Dae Larery RET 1 Rear A : Ws } a Pa J) ) AS ii ie f } “he ‘ : . : mie i Th oe hy rob RON oh 0}! .
a WUE YY AY gv
i} y
Misi tg
y ’ : :

<<<Page: 747>>>

3 9088 01421 61
4 $f \ +5
if AR NAY Byes
st} wh if
i +) Yvan
Shin ererewitene sere -

<<<Page: 748>>>



<<<Page: 749>>>

wale = es: : . " <4 sages = rs . ‘ ~ Z ~ on — 2 . ~~ ; < a os x . me + al ‘ ’ : = = « rs vi z on ye x " 4 seat ey ert : 3 a ee ee ‘e £
eo ‘ ’ =a / : & “a “at <x , a es — — x RS ae“ a Fe as é te raed a * + A x —, 5 << cS = . 6 “ “<< ‘ ea é Ks ‘hearers $ Ey: a i se ee ce \ —‘4 * 4
Ps a &i eG eae ome \ = ye
rs > 7 . fe “e ay A hee 3 4 « . x t = % -~ rs ai Pine : : som 2 ‘ ~ ae to) im 3 pa 5 3 “y 2 ad id * * skis ai 0 . id it, “ it 4 A ZO sag im ° ; vs ; i PT F ee “ : Oe
| ES ie a Ea ¥ 7 -
n pares Papae ae sgl ait 3 . 5 ane i * seit = 7 a i + ~ Srey R . S e . FS se? ¢ & : 5 r 2 y oe ox : ‘ es = mt io g in 54 peas A 2 ; : pare ay b —ay ms m2 é i ps F C oe : 3 : > PS : a, vm ~ ‘ ; : . (: “ an . » ' : Sg 2 “n + t i : a ad x A ees ; — f > ~ 5 : ‘ = ; 2 . ras ‘ q ‘ oh : F s 3 2 “ +) , ‘ 4 Y : f ‘ ‘3 % " : m \ . tavty 4 i 3 2 e . ay i r. ; ¢ , a x ee \ ‘ a ¥ e ‘ ep ‘ \ i . _ 4 ‘ 4 i i \. ? y a
, ‘ , * ee 2 ns er 4 ¢ —~— abe ne = ee noel * raad es ot 2 . oe a * saat? ea “ = * ys
eer, nas os — ——— i" — mul
‘pes
aor ot ’ ra

<<<Page: 750>>>

one Tee meme ~ nem
a a oe
saree ew
aettne
ame!
pits
"sige
Saget
Soule

<<<Page: 751>>>



<<<Page: 752>>>

