<<<Page: 1>>>

taabaad
9g mam@k « eaaet hak
" aly Sei Farce
Ni oye
AS ise 2

<<<Page: 2>>>



<<<Page: 3>>>



<<<Page: 4>>>



<<<Page: 5>>>

eg Oe ag
a eS Ch
. . 4 Yat u 4 * J. F cS a ‘ a . : » : 7 i }

<<<Page: 6>>>

a ep ie to a see F. ~ cas a ae, ied 7 ee he aia ‘ ca in _ » . ‘

<<<Page: 7>>>



<<<Page: 8>>>

eee Opie
sone E INca=

<<<Page: 9>>>

Approved January 12, 1895.
“Of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution, ten thousand copies; one thousand copies for the Senate, two thousand for the House, five thousand for distribution by the Smithsonian Institution, and two thousand for distribution by the National Museum.”’

<<<Page: 10>>>

Pee NATIONAL MUSEUM, THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
ie et) Ack INI TIN GJ UNE 30,1904:

<<<Page: 11>>>



<<<Page: 12>>>

REPORT OF THE U.S. NATION ale ae FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1904.
I. Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, with Appendices. II. Papers describing and illustrating Collections in the U. S.
National Museum. =

<<<Page: 13>>>



<<<Page: 14>>>

Unitep States NatronaL Museum, UNDER DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, Washington, October 1, 1904. Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present condition of the United States National Museum, and upon the work accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904. Very respectfully, ; RicHARD RATHBUN, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. S. National Museum. Mr. S. P. Lane ey,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

<<<Page: 15>>>



<<<Page: 16>>>

Page
SUBTACUS o SS SSS SRSA GA Se Ss ae NE ae eta an rE TS Vv
aeRO MIN AINS MITER ANie ters Met arew tay et Soe hae oe eo Sa A VII
(CONTIN Sa sshs Se Seeds ben] See eee ee oe rs bh ya SERRE aS ty 1X
GE TeLO Hp GTEC SP UACIO Neste aoe vata ays G2 ise is oe ce ee he xa
PART I. Report OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
ANS) Gh TODOS TUTTI OVE TREY EOS Te LD ee Ee a ar See uf
AMSG) MUSE Oi: HEREIRC) Op Sa ek ee a a ae ee Se Se ae em 9
AGPANRCT CA OMA MnMUSeUMNes ate eee eee. eee ey Sees sues. 10
RiTre MEW ATUMSe UMMM UN dines seams cate aes cee tito Sea chee ek eS eee 12
Croviunean deneedsolebhe mUseUMmesess «6s scoSo 22 2ccce$ occ occ ke scdence es 13
AMP LOpriaiOnsanc CxPENCIUULCK Sco! 5 <ccc. cee eece cccn cess ewie ce swan eeesee 21
iSSUUTIKOUMFAYSAS! 2 wats 5 Ae eS eR 2 NO FS a a on me ee 22
Nol ciiionsscOutmecOllechlOng =. . se... eon, a2 etlctec ees casece we cce eee Oe! 25
BeMceemorkumpou the collections... 8...2issl2.252..-fe. see sete ete sees 33
PMC Texd Oi OnNRCOMeGtONSesesseb ek = 8828 58 no cont oe cae s ote ce tenses 36
[GRETIREMES SE Sass LA Ses Dae a a a ee ee ter ge ee 38
Hep ORALONS eee = soe oe en ee ed ts Bo) thee Oe i See a ee ec 44
Diciwibuvionw amd exchange of specimens. ._-.....----------.--+-----2 <6 ee 46
WHstleOs ooo nico oe Gece ie pee RIT Ss SE gna ee eC 47
NIGER SAM Ome CHULES ee serie eae aot oho DERE cise ce acl Se a we eee 48
OTB RSTU ITU URIIVE 5 eal 10 ge Sl a ean a eo 49
Feely hecihl ON] Gmeneneneenee eR seereet s B ge eee ese eens eee 49
ILNORBIAN 5 Sa ERE SS EERE SG SSE Se aa Pee 52
LOD ATGATET DS a ee ee ae en oe eee Pa tke 52
Cooperation of the Executive Departments of the Government. ----.-.-------d3
JE SEfOOSMUNOMMS <2 Se eT LS Sa nm ee ee eta 53
Hiaiacetia MMe OMOTCRSES EL ok oS oe sek ow tein tee soto wisseeee eee ane ese 55
Mia inice nines ee hanigete ee eo oe oe ee ene SSE ee see Seems ae eeee 55
VaetiGlaniy 200 Joleen rr ee ne eer eg SRE a ae ee 56
Reports oF HEAD CURATORS.
Report on the Department of Anthropology for the year 1903-4 .........---61 (GHIUS: Cos cece Sos oe ee AES ee er nA Petes ere 61 PGURGLTES GS 21 cs ee ee Pe ge eRe Se TEC ree, es SP ce Se oe 6: Bheaanietine eee mmr ase net cree VSS et bo als os Betsey enn ene 64 rANSteecranel Oncaea te So fos some Sue Se Rees Se Ree See 64 INDIO PAWIONGS SS BS 6-Ae es SS Beeps = ae Sere DOSE res CE oscar SH oasaS ames 66

<<<Page: 17>>>

x CONTENTS.
Report on the Department of Anthropology for the year 1903-4—Continued. Care of the collections:* 2-54..3s2e eee nee eee eee ee ee ee Hxhibition and study .series: 2 5522. Se eee oe eee ee nee Installation. .22.. 32 S285 Se Seas ae ee ee ee ee ee Models‘and replicas: = = 5832 Gas ase Se ee ee ree ye
Resear chests ii Seta le See Seca el is ne See ee ee oe
Report on the Department of Biology for the year 1903-4 ..............Le Exhibition collections’ 22,52 222.4:< 25-5 eee ene eee ee
Work on-the:study series-. 2.2. 4222.56 one ee eee ee Cooperation of specialists and loan of collections.................------Distrib utiomsoissump lis an aber alll pevese peace ae Laboratory use of the collections by investigators. .............-..------
Scientific researches and investigations ...........-.-.--ep De ao
Personnel? < sb ct Joe oot Sear ee eee ee Report on the Department of Geology for the year 1903-4..........-..-----INGGOSSIONS). Vee 2555S 5.5 Siete Se ae eee ee ee ee Division, of Geology. = ae ee ee ere oS eee Division:of Minerallogyaens st seen See se oe ae eee Invertebrate Paleontology £2425. soe ee eee en re eee eee Vertebrate. Paleontology 22522 ast hee os he oe ne ee eee Paleobotany 225.2 Ses ae Se yes erate eee eee ESO UIT Gyo 5s Li re eR ea
T. “Phe Musewim Statin ase es ee er ee ea so rea ID; List: of ACCESSIONS Sz Ss cee Sete er ree SP ea ee ee TIE. Bibliography so5s-5, 2.580 ye.20 GaSe ee ee oe ee ee ee IV. Report of Charles Schuchert, delegate of the Smithsonian Institution and United States National Museum to the Ninth International Geological Congress, held at Vienna, Austria, August 20-27, 1903....-.-.---
AUR Ste
Papers DescriBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES NationaL Museum.
Contributions to the history of American geology. By George P. Merrill .... The 8. 8. Howland collection of Buddhist-religious art in the National Museum.
By Immanuel M5 \Casamowitz)-22 so25 en nese ee ee eee eae Flint implements of the Fayum, Egypt. By Heywood Walter Seton-Karr ---
Page. 66 68
735 745

<<<Page: 18>>>

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE History oF AMERICAN GEOLOGY. )
By GeorGce P. Merri...
Facing page.
. Maclure’s Geological Map of the United States. Reduced from original
in Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, VI, Pt. 2, SO) Greiner pen N ae eee Ok a ela ase gas ad tociseeee Sete s Portrait of Benjamin Silliman, professor of chemistry, Yale College. From a steel engraving by W. G. Jackman (D. Appleton & Co.) -.---.------
Portrait of William Maclure, president of the Philadelphia Academy of
Natural Sciences. (After T. Sully.) Engaved by D. C. Hinman.-..-.-. Portrait of Parker Cleaveland, professor of chemistry and mineralogy, Bowdoin College. (After T. Badger.) Engraved by J. C. Buttre..-Maclure’s Section across the Appalachians (colored). Reduced from original in Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, 1818-Portrait of Amos Eaton, professor of natural science, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, DS SCS NG UE TST Da Ea a ee ee ag pee a oa
Portrait of Ebenezer Emmons, State geologist of North Carolina. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLVIIT, 1896......--Portrait of Gerard Troost, State geologist of Tennessee. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLV, 1894 .........-..--.-----Portrait of Samuel George Morton, physician and paleontologist From BESCCMC UOT AVI E wer: Pees nie 2S St Sahel Lisa sls eee eee
. Portrait of Charles Thomas Jackson, State geologist of Maine, New Hamp-
shire, and Rhode Island. Redrawn from a w yoodeut by C. Weber -.-..Portrait of Lardner Vanuxem, geologist of New York State survey. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLVI, 1895. .--------Portrait of Edward Hitchcock, professor of geology, Amherst College. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, DENY MIE 1S}2)5) 5 ae = Portrait of Henry Darwin eioeets: State geologist of Pennsylvania. From
a steel engraving by L.S ;. Punderson, in Annual ot Scientific Discovery, 1S) Se Re eee rat Lg IS be SE 2 Steere ES He ee eee eee
5. Portrait of William Williams Mather, geologist of New York State survey.
From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, X LIX, 1896_.--.Portrait of William Barton Rogers, State geologist of Virgima. From a steel engraving by H. W. Smith, in Annual of Scientific Discovery, 1868 -
. Portrait of Timothy Abbott Conrad, paleontologist. From a wood engray-
ing in Popular Science Monthly, XLVII, 1895 ...-.-...----.---------
Portrait of David Dale Owen, geologist. Redrawn from woodcut in Report on Geology of Wisconsin, [owa, and Minnesota -.-------------
. Owen’s Geological Sections (colored). Reduced from original in Report
of Geological Reconnaissance ot Chippewa Land District ....----------
20. Portrait of James Hall, State geologist of New York. From a photograph
iteylkeeray Tigm, TROT Se ee See ee ee ey ee ee he
. Portrait of James Dwight Dana, professor of geology, Yale College. From
BD WML MP Ea Me era ie ooh ie bac ada oo = saan mieiesieee ete eee River terraces and dritt bowlders in Massachusetts. From Hitchcock’s iilistrations:ot suntace Geology, 18h7 22-22). =. .— = eae eae ee
. Portrait of John Strong Newberry, professor of geology, Columbia Col-
lege, and State geologist of Ohio. From a steel engraving. .----..-..--

<<<Page: 19>>>

Facing page.
. Portrait of Alexander Winchell, professor of geology and paleontology, University of Michigan, and State geologist of Michigan. From a steel engraving in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, III, 1891---
5. Members of the geological survey of California, 1860. From a photograph. . Portraits of James Richardson, Alexander Murray, and Sir William Logan.
From photographs .. 2. =. .02cdcege = ee ee ee
. Portrait of George Hammell Gobi State geologist of New Jersey. From
a photograph taken about ls/7 2-52.25. 22202 sees =) ee eee ae
. Portrait of Edward Orton, professor of geology, Ohio State University,
and State geologist of Ohio. Froma steel enordving jos sesc eee es
. Portrait of Sir William Dawson, principal of McGill University. From a
photograph, -..2..:22i0. Sines ttces cs oe eee ee eee
. Hayden field party at La Veta Pass, August, 1877. From a photograph. . Portrait of Ferdinand Vandiveer Hayden, director of U. 8. geological sur-
vey of the Territories. From a photograph taken about 1876......----
. Portrait of Fielding Bradford Meek, paleontologist. From a photoeree
by T. W. Gan ihnec 220 ee ol ar i ea ee ee a Portrait of Clarence King, director of U. 8S. geological explorations of i tieth parallels Hrom ai photographie: cease mene a aee eee eee eee Portrait of John Wesley Powell, director of U. 8S. geographical and geological survey of the Rocky Mountain regions. From a photograph. ---
5. The Moody Footmark Quarry, South Hadley, Mass. From Hitchcock’s
lichnolosysotiNew in olan dS 5 Sie see eet ee
36. The Appleton Cabinet. From Hitchcock’s Ichnology of New England, 1858 . Portrait of Sir William Logan, director of the Geological survey of Canada.
Eroma photograph 2. o9<.2 2. aivcc sce ee ene eee ee eaten eae eee eee
Tue §. 8. Howianp CoLLEecTIon oF BuppHist RELIGIous ART IN THE NATIONAL
Museum.
By Ivmanvuet M. Casanowicz.
Facing page. i. Atstandinehourevof Buddiha¥ 5253s es ancee cess ee eee ee eee eee 744 2. Buddha sittino inemeditanone=sr aes eeacee eee eee ae eee 744 3. Buddha seated upon a lotus) 2/222 5.35 Sebesee aren ese see eee 744 4, Buddha. reclinitige. hs ss22 5 aca sae = sae: ee See ee ee ee 744 5. Three figurines: of Buddha: 25:5: =-2 9a. a cose eee ee ee eee eee 744 6) Buddha; with artitemed autism ba rene ys a eee 744 7. The shrine closed 2s. 24... sse25 02 See ee esa ee ee 744 8. Two. Buddhist, saints ©. 235036 62352 cee ee eee ee 744 9. Buddhist monk. 22.225 d.2cocee Sos ae eee 744 10. Ornamental beggine bowl: 222 sossese see eee ee ee ee 744 li: Buddhist:sacred book... .. 22225. 2 Sees eee eeeee nt eee ee aoe aa eee 744 12: Prayer wheel; .<22./.22 53sec 550 eee See eo ee ee ene 744 13: A-pair of temple lamps. 2.225952 5 sneer fees T4. A temple drum :.2: 2 2 ssc has eeee ace ee eee eee eee ee oe oe 744 ib. “Che: Chinese codloh wares -25. eee eee eee Suite Se eee eo tee 744 16. The Chinese god of peace ....------. Ten bee cost ees Se Se ee Ce ace 744 17. Lwo Japanese porcelain feunes 222e.5 422 eee eee eee eee eee 744 First IMPLEMENTS OF THE Fayum, Eaypv. By Hreywoop WALTER Seron-Karr.
Facing page. » Knives of fimt froma the ak aby, tara 5) ony, ieee 752
2, Arrowheads of new type: — Hayum), siloy pisses ees seeas ese eae 5
3.. Arrowheads of varied shape. Payumo, Weve sssee eee ee ee eee eee
Arrowheads of different forms. Fayum, Egypt....-----------.--i Seesz
. Objects of worked flint... Payum, Woeypt 22 soee soe es oe eee
J J) SI sI or or bo bo bo be

<<<Page: 20>>>

Facing pag 6. Various types of flint implements. Fayum, Egypt...............-....-. 752 ( euiiinaciplements.a Kayum, Neypt. 2222.25.52 enc h ue Bececcc te cee. 752 8. Arrow and javelin heads, saws, ete. ayum, Ey pt cet see Oa ee 752 9. Saws and other implements of flint. Bayume “Hey riire S252 tree ses 752 10. Arrowheads of remarkable form. Fayum, Egypt.............---------752 Hepoeravers, knives aris, ete. Fayum, Eeypt.....:-..... 2. <ss.c.2e.-ee752 12. Spearheads, sacrificial knives, etc. Fayum, Egypt.-..............-.-.-752
TEXT FIGURES: CoNTRIBUTIONS TO THE History oF AMERICAN GEOLOGY.
By GrorGe P. Merri.u. Page.
1. Portrait of Archibald Bruce. From American Journal of Science, I, 1819. 223
2. Portrait of Samuel Luther Dana. From a wood engraving in Popular SerencerMonbmivapNalleNcn IS OG se wseto some acc les cee odee sees ecc cel ee 229
3. Portrait of Samuel Latham Mitchill. From a steel engraving by Gimber STS) UD Eee Sik Sie 5 cc Se I i gg 231 ieMap donllustrave Mitchill’s theory of barriers......-.2.-..0....2...226--232
5. A geological transverse section, extending from Catskill Mountain to the Atlantic. From Eaton’s Index to Geology of the Northern States, 1818. 235
6. Portrait of Henry Rowe Schoolcraft. From a steel engraving by Illman JO SWIMS ISAS A S8 COANES SEES eae ee eee a 240 re Mapsaowimp cchooleratts route in 1820202. -2-.. 22.22.22 lees. 7. 241 Ba apotsenoolerait sitravelsin toe) o-oo 52c00022-. 2s cs ecace see c cee 242
9. Schoolcraft’s Section of Presque Isle. (Original colored.) From Narrative VoOURMalsoteRrayvelsslS20 naam eee eee eee es ecscee 248
10. Map of Long’s expeditions, 1819-20. From an account of an Expedition idm eitsburo to hoeky Mountains: 2621. 22..2.-.22.-26-sede-snecee 246
11. Geological Sections from the Allegheny to the Rocky Mountains. (After Edwin James.) From report of Long’s expedition, 1819-20........-.248
12. Portrait of Horace H. Hayden. From a painting by permission of Mary-
lemder eo lovacalastinve vases se soe si xcwi Peete me Secs 2 oe eco s cee 259
. Portrait of Thomas Cooper at age of 70. From a steel engraving by
JN Bs IDO: 55 = Te a ee 8 a ener pe are De ee ae 261
. Supposed human footprints in limestone. (After D. D. Owen.) From
American Journal orecience, XLII, 1842.22.22. 25. oan bo see bocce 263 15. Portrait of Denison Olmsted. From a steel engraving by A. H. Ritchie.. 267 16. Map showing Routes of Long’s expedition of 1823. From Narrative of an
Expedition to the Source Gipstebaters River sc nesiacs wee eee 275 17. Sections of Snake Hill, Saratoga Lake. (After J. H. Steel.) From Amer-
LAMP OUMNAOMSCIENCe: (82-520 33-522. d2he2sb cokes sasesseooeeeeece 277 18. Portrait of Elisha Mitchell. From a steel engraving.........----------285 19. Eaton’s Transverse Sections of the Globe. From Geological Text-Book, 1832 297 20. Portrait of George William Featherstonhaugh. From American Geolo-
Git, ATO TUS) ee ee ee Gea apres Sen nee Oo aaa 303 21. Portrait of Jacob Green. From a steel engraving..-...---.------------305 22. Folded axes. (After Edward Hitchcock.) From Final Report on Geology
Ole Vascrelicentswm lee S4 eo heer Leas ss Ae Leen conse eee ee 314 23. Portrait of Isaac Lea. From a steel engraving in the Annual of Scientific
IDiSGOWeRY, ISG) aSedeeee sons atoore dese tete] See eee a ecne enero eeoScc 320 24. Portrait of Juiius Timoleon Ducatel. From a painting, by permission of
Margiuneerolorieal survey 2. 222i 2222. 2 shoe Soe aan 323 25. Portrait of James Gates Percival. From an engraving ..-..------------329 26. Portrait of Samuel Prescott Hildreth. From a photograph---.---------331 27. Page from Mather’s Elements of Geology for the use of schools, 1833.
merremmaemcem@exach AIZe) < 22.252 bone 2 2 ee oc nso See eee eee ee 334
. Portrait of Abraham Gesner. From an engraving in Bulletin XIV, Natu-
ral History Society of New Brunswick, 1896.......-.-.--------------339

<<<Page: 21>>>

29. Portrait of Charles Upham Shepard. From a lithograph by Engelbach . Portrait of James Curtis Booth. From a photograph taken in 1876 ..--. . Portrait of Bela Hubbard. From an engraving in Magazine of Western
IIst0ry. =: 5-2 62 cscs ee onse Soo ee eee eee ee eee aero
. General section across the Western States. (After D. D. Owen.) From
Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, 1846.....------
. Portrait of James Hall. From a daguerreotype taken in 1843..........-. Profile of the Island of New York. (After Issachar Cozzens.) From Geo-
logical History of Manhattan Island, 1843, (Original colored) ...-..---
. Portrait of Michael Tuomey. From a photograph taken about 1857 --.-. Portrait of Charles Baker Adams. From an enlarged engraving in Amer-
ican=Geologist. X KOC 190355 50. aos peat ee ee ae eee
. Ideal section of the crust of the earth. (After C. B. Adams.) From First
Annual Report: Geolovistiof Vermomtml 84 eee 5 a eee ee
. Portrait of Zadock Thompson. From a steel engraving by J. C. Buttre-. Richmond bowlder train. (After E. Hitchcock.) From American Jour-
Na]OMSGIGNCE, KONO NGIN CAG es Pek ee ae ear
. Portrait of Frederick Adolphus Wislizenus. From a photograph..-----. Portrait of James Dwight Dana. From a lithograph by R. Hoffman, 1857. Sketch map of Richmond bowlder train. (After E. R. Benton.) From
Bulletin of Museum of Comparative Zoology, V, 1878 ......-----------
3. Portrait of John Bulkley Perry. From an engraving by H. W. Smith... : Map showing Stansbury 7s routes 1nhi849-50 ere eeee eee eee . Map of areas surveyed by D. D. Owen in Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois in
1839 sand the Chippewarclandidistnich wm les jesss = eee ae eee
. Owen’s geological sections across Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois. From
Report of Geological Exploration of Part of Iowa, Wisconsin, and IlliMOiss L839) Wolke 2 se sac Sas ea eee eee ore eee eae
. Trap dikes on Lake Superior. (After D. D. Owen.) From Report of Geo-
logical Survey of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota, 1852.......-.-.---.
. Map showing area surveyed by Jackson, and Foster and Whitney, 1847-49.
49. Portrait of Louis Agassiz. From a steel engraving by C. H. Jeens in
Nature; Aspril US792e = Jes oo ae ete Sere eee ee ee eter te eee 50. Portrait of John Wells Foster. From a steel engraving -..-...---------51. Portrait of Philip Thomas Tyson. From a painting, by permission of
Maryland: ceolocicall survey 22s. 22s fe eee eee ee
Portrait of Joseph Granville Norwood, aged 67 years. From a_photographs 2.2.02 Besse 5 es ce Pe ee en ee ee eee en
. Map showing routes of Marcy and Shumard, 1849-52.........--.-.-.---. Portrait of Oliver Payson Hubbard. From a photograph -.--.-..-..-----. Portrait of John Boardman Trask. From a photograph ...----..------. Portrait of Garland Carr Broadhead. From a photograph ----....----.-. Portrait of Oscar Montgomery Lieber. From a photograph -.-....-.----» Portrait of Jules Marcon. Krom’ a photoorip hve ssseee=se= === ae . Map showing principal routes of exploring parties in connection with
Pacific railroad surveys 2.22: 4--Ve.0s22 oe eee ee ee
. Portrait of William Phipps Blake. From a photograph.-.--....--..-----. Portrait of Thomas Antisell. From a photograph -.....-.-..----------. Portrait of George Gibbs. From a photograph ...--.----.---Sere is sia tiaee . Portrait of James Merrill Safford. From a photograph --.-.-.-..----.-.--. Section from the Cumberland to eastern base of Lookout Mountain..
(After J. M. Safford.) From a Geological Reconnaissance of Tennessee,
1855 .. 22..--sso. odes eek vince ee de 65. Paradoxides harlani. From a photograph of one of Green’s casts. ----.-66. Portrait of Richard Owen. From a wood engraving in Popular Science
Monthly, Li, 1897... 2052 2 See eee
. Map showing routes traversed by Newberry with Lieutenant Ives and
Captain Macomb, 1857-09: .--s25 ccntkc 20a eee ee aeiaa ae eee eran

<<<Page: 22>>>

fon) ioe)
for] ve)
SSI) em oONW Re ©
. Portrait of Eugene Waldemar Hilgard. From a photograph taken Janu-
AIAG, WW Decsosod soos SSeS Rae OnE eee en ee, Saar e
. Portrait of Benjamin Franklin Shumard. From an engraving in Amer-
Ooih (SBOLUG LOY» USS 55 GE Sets eae a ates ese ees
. Portrait of Amos Henry Worthen. Froma photograph taken about 1863. Portrait of Leo Lesquereux. From a photograph taken in May, 1872... . Portrait of Henry Engelmann. From a photograph --------.---------. Portraitof Charles Henry Hitchcock. Froma photograph taken about 1879. . Portrait of Thomas Sterry Hunt. From an engraving in American Geol-
CeSis BC ly Wee RE oes ee a ee ee
. Portrait of Raphael Pumpelly. From a photograph -........-.-..----. Portrait of Benjamin Franklin Mudge. From a photograph ----..--.--. Portrait of George Clinton Swallow. From an engraving in American
(ECU D ETSY IDC ON ie ei eel ate a a eR
. Portrait of Charles Frederick Hartt. From a photograph-.-.-.-..---.---. Portraits of Charles Abiather White, Rush Emery, and Orestes St. John.
Brome pao lorrapl takemin 1869... 2.222. 22. 2 Goins see aes ee
. Portrait of Thomas Brooks Brooks. From a photograph .--.----------. Portrait of Carl Rominger. From a photograph taken about 1879 .----2. Portrait of Charles Whittlesey. From a photograph taken in December,
LS neo eee Re eae SoS soe oS cic Sain Sie cisis Sioieie S's'ssle-c, 5S
. Portrait of Edward Travers Cox. From a photograph.'.-.-.----------. Portrait of Alfred Richard Cecil Selwyn. From a photograph ......--) Portrait of George Little: From a photograph .-.-...-...-.-----------. Portrait of John Murrish. From a photograph ..-.--..Sete ee ee ane . Portrait of Othniel Charles Marsh. Froma photograph -.......------. Portrait of Joseph Le Conte. From a photograph.....-+ Pee SS se aes . Portrait of Washington Caruthers Kerr. From a photograph -----.-.--. . Portrait of Eugene Allen Smith. From a photograph .....-----------. Portrait of John Wesley Powell. From a photograph .....-----------. Ideal cross section of the Black Hills. (After Henry Newton.) From
Report of Geology and Resources of the Black Hills of Dakota, 1880--
. Portrait of Increase Allen Lapham. From a photograph taken in 1866. Portrait of Thomas Crowder Chamberlin. From a photograph taken in
1S Seen Meer Beenie Se Loe Sos So ceiocerieeaceaioma eos
. Portrait of Roland Duer Irving. From an engraving in American Geolo-
25g, JIE SSE oan Se Se eee ee pene oem raer a=
. Portrait of J. Peter Lesley. From a photograph ........--.-----------. Maps showing routes of Raynolds’s expedition in 1859-60, and area coy-
Sredmiypiieiuaen a KOpONG: sc cee 22522552 s 2 sce scien ase esneene aces
. Portrait of Edward Drinker Cope, with a skull of Loxolophodon cornutus.
TP CySinGe 50) 1Y0) 2 0year 9 | eee a
. Portrait of Fielding Bradford Meek. From a photograph by Julius Ulke,
NR sche ceca se dae be Gee DAE SOR CnE Ree ee eee a Sea metric
. Portrait of Frank Howe Bradley. From a photograph .-..---.-------. Portrait of Joseph Leidy. From an engraving in American Geologist,
TDA, IS ty bn SoS. 2 ee ie ee en ere
. Portrait of Frederic Miller Endlich. From a photograph -.-..--------. Inverted beds of Jackass Creek. (After A. C. Peale.) From U. 8. Geo-
logical Survey of Montana, 1872......------------------------------
. Portrait of Albert Charles Peale. From a photograph taken in 1872.-.-. Portrait of Archibald Robertson Marvine. From a photograph taken in
TS) Seabee bees See eer ABER EC COCE COE pono Be po reer cosinor
. Sections across the Sierra La Sal. (After A. OC. Peale.) From Report
U. 8. Geological and Geographical Survey, 1875 .....----------------
. Sections across the Sierra El Late. ( After W. H. Hoimes.) From Report
U. S. Geological and Geographical Survey, 1875 -..------------------
. Portrait of William Henry Holmes. From a photograph taken about 1878.

<<<Page: 23>>>

. Showing areas surveyed and mapped by the Hayden Surveys, 1870-78 -. Portrait of Robert Parr Whitfield. From a photograph....-......-.-.--. Map showing area covered by the Fortieth Parallel Survey -....-.--.-.--. Portraits of Arnold Hague, Clarence King, and Samuel Franklin Emmons.
From ‘a: photopraplist.s-1. 222 scscc neem ace cee eee eee ere ee as
. Portrait of Grove Karl Gilbert. From a photograph taken about 1874. . Section of the Pahranagat range at Silver Canyon. (After G. K. Gilbert. )
From Geological Survey West of One Hundredth Meridian, III, 1875-
. Portrait of Edwin Eugene Howell. From a photograph taken about 1875. Portrait of John James Stevenson. From a photograph --.-...---.-.---. Map showing area surveyed and mapped by the Powell survey, 1875-80. Portrait of Clarence Edward Dutton. From a photograph ----..-.----. Laccoliths. (After G. K. Gilbert.) From Geology of Henry Mountains,
Uta 197 Zi cece ee 2 sik ee Soe ee ay ee
PPackam out oun ssc. so soe sere at eee ee eae eR ee eee eee ee . Fossil footprints. (After Edward Hitchcock.) From American Journal
OL Science LBSGe ss Ae Pee ee eee Re Te ee
22. Portrait ou James Deanes (Hromiayphotographissses-ss-eer ee eae eee ee 23. Skeleton of Anchisaurus colarus Marsh. From American ‘Journal of
SCLEN Ces PRELAV ENTS Ot: Fee NE, PER Rete att St are pene
. Supposed fossil from Laurentian limestone. (After W. E. Logan.) From Geology ofCanada, S650 s4ec 9 Nee ents eae eae eee eens
. Small weathered specimens of Hozoon canadense. (After J. W. Dawson. )
From: ©hainjoiwitens Geologicalllime === sameeren eee
. Magnified group of canals in supplemental skeleton of Eozoon. (After
J. W. Dawson.) From Chain of Life in Geological Time...--...-----
. Portion of Eozoon magnified 100 diameters, showing the original cell
wall, with tubulation. (After W. B. Carpenter in Dawson’s Chain of Life in:Geolapical Mime) =. 22-2. 2 see0 eee 2. eee eee ee
. Magnified and restored section of a portion of Hozoon canadense. (After
J. W. Dawson.) From Chain of Life in Geological Time........-.---
9. Diagram of Eozoonal rock at Cote St. Pierre. (After T. G. Bonney. )
From GeolopricaleWarazine ii gS 95a se ee eee eee ae
. Map of original Taconic area. (After Ebenezer Emmons)..........---. Section of Taconic rocks. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of
New Y orks: Pewee oe soso sae a 2 ee sae ee eee ae eee ee
32. Sections explanatory of the Taconic system. (After KE. Emmons.) From
Natural. History: of New. York) (Pt. 4-22. 62. so see eee ee
33. Altops trilineatus. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of New York,
I, pl. Vili: Sepsis Dae See ee i oe ee eee ee oe ae ee
. Elliptecephala asaphoides. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of
New ‘York, Tjplsicsce ecu aes on eek ee ee
5. Triarthrus beckii and eatoni. (After James Hall.) From American Jour-
nal of Science; XkOGNIE S83 7—88. pp. 140) sees aes ee ee
3. Olenus thompson. (After James Hall.) From Tenth Annual Report
Regents of the University of State of New York, 1857............:--:
. Olenus vermontana. (Atter James Hall.) From Tenth Annual Report
Regents of the University of State of New York -....--.-..---........
. Portrait of Elkanah Billings. Hromija; photosraphessseeeeeeee eae 9. Portrait of Charles Doolittle Walcott. From a photograph taken in 1891. Tabular view of Taconic strata as arranged by E. Emmons. (AfterC. D.
Walcott.) From American Journal of Science, XX XV, April, 1888 --
. Section of Bald Mountain from the south. (After C. D. Walcott.) From
American Journal of Science, XOXGX isskeien ane ee eee eee Fiint IMPLEMENTS OF THE Fayum, Eq@ypt. By Heywoop Watrter Seron-Karr.
Mapiof part.of Fayum Desert. 2270s: eespceae: eee ee Sa eee

<<<Page: 24>>>

Jegvee sii Bie Ee
NAT Mus 1904——1 i

<<<Page: 25>>>



<<<Page: 26>>>

i ove cid oo @ ml Sond &
. By Ricwarp RarTHeun,
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the U.S. National Museum. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
The United States National Museum had its origin in the act of Congress of 1846 founding the Smithsonian Institution, which made the formation of a museum one of the principal functions of the latter, and provided that— ;
Whenever suitable arrangements can be made from time to time for their reception, all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United States, which may be in the city of Washington, in.whosesoever custody they may be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them, and shall be so arranged and classified in the building erected for the Institution as best to facilitate the examination and study of them; and whenever new specimens in natural history, geology, or mineralogy are obtained for the museum of the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate specimens, which the Regents may in their discretion make, or by donation, which they may receive, or otherwise, the Regents shall cause such new specimens to be appropriately classed and arranged.
The principal and accrued interest of the Smithsonian fund amounted at that time to about $750,000, a sum considered ample to meet the needs of the various operations in which it was proposed that the Smithsonian Institution should engage. In 1846 probably not more than one or two universities or learned establishments in America had so large an endowment, and it was apparently the idea of Congress that the fund was sufficient both for the erection of a building and for the care of the collections which would be turned over to it or acquired by the national surveys, and in other ways. The Museum thus began as an integral part of the Institution, coordinate with its library, and was required by law to provide for the Goyernment collections which had previously accumulated, a duty which the

<<<Page: 27>>>

Institution did not see its way clear to fulfill until 1858, when Congress began to make small yearly appropriations to aid in this purpose. So inadequate, however, were the sums voted that for many years the slender income of the Institution continued to be drawn upon to insure the maintenance of what was then justly called the Smithsonian Museum, since the building was paid for out of the Smithson fund, a considerable portion of the collections was and still is the property of the Institution, through exploration and gift, and a number of the officials connected with the Museum were employed at its expense.
The first scientific collection to come into the possession of the Institution—and, in fact, it accompanied the bequest—was the small but valuable mineralogical cabinet of James Smithson, the founder, who was himself a chemist and mineralogist of repute and a Fellow of the Royal Society of London.
The nucleus of the National Museum was, however, virtually acquired by the National Institute, a society organized in Washington about 1840, having for its avowed purpose the direction of the Smithson bequest and the pursuit of objects in consonance with the terms of that foundation. One of these objects was the gathering of historical and natural history specimens from both official and private sources, most prominent among the former having been the United States Exploring Expedition around the world from 1838 to 1842. Rooms in the Patent Office building were secured for the museum of the society, which was practically recognized as the appropriate place of deposit for all Government collections retained in Washington. Another important service rendered by the society was, as the late Dr. G. Brown Goode has said, in the direction of educating public opinion *‘ to consider the establishment of such an institution worthy of the Government of the United States.” Failing, however, to secure the public recognition at which it aimed, it became inactive upon the establishment of the Smithsonian Institution in 1846, and its charter, which expired in 1861, was not renewed. The Government collections in its possession, which came practically under the care of the Commissioner of Patents, were turned over to the Smithsonian Institution in 1858. Other material directly under the control of the National Institute remained at the Patent Office until 1862, and a part of the historical objects were held there until 1883.
Previous to 1858, however, important materials for a museum were being accumulated at the Smithsonian Institution, at its own cost and through the activities of its assistant secretary, Prof. Spencer F. Baird, beginning even before his appointment to that office in 1850. The personal bent of Professor Baird was toward the collection of natural history specimens for purposes of study. With the approval of Secretary Henry he put into operation plans for the accomplishment of this object, which, fostered and encouraged, were soon yield

<<<Page: 28>>>

ing regular and abundant returns. Professor Baird’s own vacations were spent in field work. Officers of the Army and Navy and of other branches of the Government service, fishermen, fur traders, private explorers, and such powerful organizations as the Hudson’s Bay Company and the Western Union Telegraph Company, were enlisted in the work and rendered valuable assistance. The influence exerted by these beginnings has been lasting and widespread, as shown in the extensive natural history operations of subsequent National and State surveys, the organization of the Fish Commission and Bureau of Ethnology, and the support given to scientific collecting by many other bureaus of the Government.
The discussion of plans for the organization of the Smithsonian Institution, which devolved upon the first Board of Regents, led, in January, 1847, to the unanimous adoption of the following resolution expressing approval of the museum feature as one of its important functions:
Resolved, That it is the intention of the act of Congress establishing the Institution, and in accordance with the design of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in his will, that one of the principal modes of executing the act and the trust is the accumulation of collections of specimens and objects of natural history and of elegant art, and the gradual formation of a library of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge, to the end that a copious storehouse of materials of science, literature, and art may be provided, which shall excite and diffuse the love of learning among men, and shall assist the original investigations and efforts of those who may devote themselves to the pursuit of any branch of knowledge. @
The policy thus announced has prevailed to the present day.
In 1879, when most of the existing Government surveys, whose work included the collecting of specimens in the field, had been established, Congress deemed it important to practically reenforce the provisions of the act founding the Institution, in order that there might be no doubt as to the proper disposition of the material certain to be derived from these various sources, by the following enactment in the sundry civil appropriation act for 1880:
All collections of rocks, minerals, soils, fossils, and objects of natural history, archeology, and ethnolgy, made by the Coast and Interior Survey, the Geological Survey, or by any other parties for the Government of the United States, when no longer needed for investigations in progress shall be deposited in the National Museum.
Although the name ‘* National Museum” was sometimes used in the earlier reports of the Smithsonian Institution, it did not appear in any of the laws of. Congress until 1875. Its general employment may be said to date from the time of the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition of 1876, the first exposition in this country in which the Government participated, and the first to make known to vast numbers of the people of the United States the existence of national collections at
« Report of Committee on Organization, p. 20.

<<<Page: 29>>>

Washington, as well as new methods of installing and exhibiting museum materials, differing radically from the older cabinets of college or local museums, which had prevailed up to that period. After its close the Government exhibits brought back to Washington, together with the extensive gifts made to the United States by private persons and foreign governments, rendered necessary the early erection of a new and separate building, devoted entirely to museum purposes. Since that time Congress has mainly provided for the maintenance of the Museum, but its management remains, by the fundamental act, under the authority of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, administered through their Secretary, who is ex officio the keeper—a form of government insuring a consistent and uniform policy and a nonpartisan administration of its affairs. The greater part of the Smithsonian building is still used for museum purposes, and the Institution, as well as most of the scientific bureaus at Washington, cooperate, both through men and material, in enlarging and caring for the national collections.
The scope of the National Museum as defined by law comprises practically all branches of science and of the arts which admit of museum treatment. With exceedingly limited means for making purchases, and therefore almost entirely dependent as to the character of its collections upon Government explorations, personal donations, and exchanges, its different departments have had a very unequal growth. The subjects best represented are American ethnology and archeology, geology, zoology, and botany. A fair beginning has been made in the exceedingly important branches of the industrial arts and American history, and scarcely more is required to place these two departments on a proper basis than sufficient room to display the necessary collections, which are certain to be received, in greater part through gratuitous contributions, when it is known that the Museum is prepared to care for them. In the department of the fine arts the collection is still very small, but the subject is one which must sooner or later receive earnest consideration by the Government.
The specimens in all branches are classified in two series; one, comprising the bulk of the material, being arranged for the purposes of scientific research and reference in laboratories and storerooms, to which students are freely admitted; the other, selected with regard to their general educational value and public interest, and accompanied by descriptive labels, being displayed in glass-covered cases in the public halls. The duplicate specimens not required for exchanges are made up into sets for distribution to schools and colleges, as opportunity offers. Papers descriptive of the collections, both technical and popular, are published for gratuitous circulation to the extent of three or more volumes yearly, and, finally, the Museum has come to be regarded as a bureau of information in respect to all

<<<Page: 30>>>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. fi
subjects with which it is even in the remotest degree concerned, the correspondence which this involves now constituting one of its heaviest tasks.
The history of the Museum, as pointed out by the late Doctor Goode, may be divided into three epochs, which he characterized as follows:
First, the period from the foundation of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, during which time specimens were collected solely to serve as materials for research. No special effort was made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize them, except as a foundation for scientific description and theory.
Second, the period from 1857, when the Institution assumed the custody of the ‘“National Cabinet of Curiosities,’’? to 1876. During this period the Museum became a place of deposit for scientific collections which had already been studied, these collections, so far as convenient, being exhibted to the public and, so far as practicable,made to serve an educational purpose.
Third, the present period (beginning in the year 1876), in which the Museum has undertaken more fully the additional task of gathering collections and exhibiting them on account of their yalue from an educational standpoint.
During the first period the main object of the Museum was scientific research; in the second, the establishment became a museum of record as well as of research, while in the third period has been added the idea of public education. The three ideas—record, research, and education—cooperative and mutually helpful as they are, are essential to the development of every great museum. The National Museum endeavors to promote them all.
In the same connection, Doctor Goode also detined the scope and objects of the Museum in the following concise manner:
It is a museum of record, in which are preserved the material foundations of an enormous amount of scientific knowledge—the types of numerous past investigations. This is especially the case with those materials that have served-as a foundation for the reports upon the resources of the United States.
It isa museum of research, which aims to make its contents serve in the highest degree as a stimulus to inquiry and a foundation for scientific investigation. Research is necessary in order to identify and group the objects in the most philosophical and instructive relations, and its officers are therefore selected for their ability as investigators, as well as for their trustworthiness as custodians.
It is an educational museum, through its policy of illustrating by specimens every kind of natural object and every manifestation of human thought and activity, of displaying descriptive labels adapted to the popular mind, and of distributing its publications and its named series of duplicates.
In its function as a museum of record the growth of the National Museum has been unprecedented, due mainly to the rapid exploration and development of a rich and extensive country under the liberal and progressive policy of the Government. From scientific institutions throughout the world, from foreign governments, and from individuals abundant stores of great value have been received, either as gifts or through the medium of exchange of specimens, and a small appropriation in recent years has permitted of some purchases to supply desiderata.

<<<Page: 31>>>

The principal sources of the collections may be briefly summarized as follows:
1. The explorations carried on more or less directly under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, or by the Institution in connection with educational institutions or commercial establishments, and the efforts, since 1850, of its officers and correspondents toward the accumulation of natural history and anthropological material.
2. The United States Exploring Expedition around the world from 1838 to 1842, the North Pacific, or Perry, Exploring Expedition from 1853 to 1856, and many subsequent naval expeditions down to and including the recent operations in the West Indian and Philippine waters.
3. The activities of members of the United States diplomatic and consular service abroad.
4. The Government surveys at home, such as the Pacific Railroad surveys, the Mexican and Canadian boundary surveys, and the surveys carried on by the Engineer Corps of the U. S. Army; and the activities of officers of the Signal Corps, and other branches of the Army stationed in remote regions.
5. The explorations of the U. S. Geological Survey, the U. S. Fish Commission, the Department of Agriculture, the Bureau of American Kthnology of the Smithsonian Institution, and other scientific branches of the Government.
6. Donations and purchases in connection with the several expositions at home and abroad in which the Museum and Fish Commission have participated, among these having been the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1876, the International Fisheries Exhibitions at Berlin in 1880 and at London in 1882, the New Orleans Cotton Centennial Exposition in 1884 and 1885, the Cincinnati Exposition of 1888, the World’s Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893, the expositions at Atlanta in 1895, at Nashville in 1897, at Omaha in 1898, the PanAmerican Exposition of 1901, and the Charleston Exposition of 1901-02. The returns from the World’s Fair in Philadelphia were of greatest extent, comprising, besides the collections displayed by the United States in illustration of the animal and mineral resources, the fisheries, and the ethnology of the native races of the country, valuable gifts from thirty of the foreign governments which participated, as wellas the industrial collections of numerous manufacturing and commercial houses of Europe and America.
7. Exchanges with foreign and domestic museums and with individuals.
Immediately preceding the Centennial Exhibition of 1876, when the collections were entirely provided for in the Smithsonian building, the number of entries of specimens in the Museum record books was

<<<Page: 32>>>

about 235,000. In 1884, when the additional room afforded by the new building gave opportunity for taking a provisional census of the large accessions received from Philadelphia and from other sources, the number had grown to 1,471,000. At the close of the year covered by this report the total number of recorded specimens was 5,898,493.
While these figures convey no impression of the bulk of the collections, when it is considered that by 1885 all of the space in both buildings was completely filled, and in fact so overcrowded that a third building was already being asked of Congress, some conception may be had of the conditions now existing. The storerooms are packed to their utmost capacity, making it difficult to gain access to the specimens or to provide adequately for their safety. For many years most of the objects received have had to be stored in outside and unsafe structures, where they are mainly piled up in the original packing boxes, and where has already accumulated enough material of great intrinsic and scientific value to fill an additional building as large as that now occupied by the main collections.
In order to permit of their examination and study, as provided in the act of establishment, the collections of the Museum are, to the extent of its accommodations, arranged systematically and in a manner convenient for reference. Access to the reserve or study series, so called, consisting of the main body of the collections and as complete in all the groups as the accessions have made possible, is given to all properly qualified persons engaged in original research. The opportunities thus afforded are widely availed of, the Museum being visited every year by many investigators, some of world-wide distinction, coming from the scientific centers of European and other foreign countries, as well as from all parts of the United States. Material is also occasionally sent out to representatives of other institutions haying the means of providing for its safe-keeping, when required in the working up of special subjects, or for comparison in connection with their own collections.
The custodianship of the collections being the first and most imperative duty devolving upon the scientific staff of the National Museum, its members find comparatively little time during office hours for advancing knowledge, though they are mostly well qualified for such work, being selected with special reference to their ability to identify and classify the specimens under their charge in accordance with the latest researches. As a matter of fact, however, the staff does produce every year a large number of papers descriptive of the collections, which together constitute an important contribution to scientific literature.

<<<Page: 33>>>

Among the honorary officers having their laboratories at the Museum are a number of assistants employed by other scientific bureaus to conduct investigations on material kept here in their charge, and in whose results the Museum shares.
Many collections have, from time to time, bébn transferred by the Geological Survey, the Fish Commission, the Department of Agriculture, and other branches of the Government to the custody of the Museum in advance of their final working up, in order to provide for their safe storage and to secure the better facilities for study here afforded. Under this arrangement the amount of research work carried on in the Museum building has been greatly increased.
Though having little means to expend for field work, members of the Museum staff are occasionally given opportunities to participate in the explorations of other Government bureaus or of private expeditions, in connection with which special researches may be carried on, though the chief advantage results from the acquisition of new and valuable material and a knowledge of the conditions under which it occurred in nature.
The educational side of the Museum is intended to consist mainly of an exhibition of all the classes of objects which it represents, so mounted, installed, and labeled as to directly interest and instruct the general public. The principal difficulty incident to the proper installation of such a collection, conceding all the space required, lies in the selection of its parts, so that while enough is displayed to convey the amount of information which it is intended to impart, the visitor shall not be overburdened or confused with details. While this policy is being followed in the National Museum, so far as its means permit, the lack of room has always prevented a complete or satisfactory development of the plan, and.every succeeding year the conditions in this respect grow worse instead of better, through the increased crowding of the halls. The advances in recent years have been chiefly in the methods of display, in the character of individual and group mountings, and in the labeling, in all of which directions exceptional progress has been made.
Three years ago it was announced that all of the halls designed for public use were then for the first time permanently open, though none were above addition or improvement, while in some the arrangement was entirely provisional. This was accomplished only by the transfer of large quantities of material to outside storage, but it has unfortunately been again necessary to shut off one or more of the halls from time to time, in order to furnish increased space for workrooms.
In this connection it seems appropriate to refer to the work of Doctor Goode, than whom no museum administrator ever had a better

<<<Page: 34>>>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. di
understanding of the public needs. He labored earnestly and conscientiously to make this a museum for as well as of the people, and the plans now being carried out are, in all their essential features, of his making. While the assistants might be relied upon to arrange and maintain the study series in a manner acceptable to the specialist, the interests of the public always remained in his immediate charge. He was ever occupied in devising ways for so presenting the features of nature and the activities of mankind that by the very force of his surroundings the visitor was bound to receive and carry with him some definite impression, some new bit of knowledge. Doctor Goode’s labors in this field ranged from the planning of the general scheme to the most minute details of case architecture and fittings. His official connection with nearly all the important expositions of the past quarter of a century and his exhaustive studies of all the principal museums of Europe and the United States gave him exceptional opportunities for observation and experiment. Though a young man when he died, none other had acquired so ripe an experience and none is more worthy of being followed. .
An incidental, though very popular, educational feature of the Museum, having for its purpose the promotion of scientific teaching throughout the country, has been the distribution to schools and col!-
leges of its duplicate specimens, properly identified and labeled, and put up in carefully selected sets. Inadequate means have prevented this measure from being carried out on the scale which the resources of the Museum would admit of, but many hundreds of such sets have already been given away.
Searcely a year passes that some exposition, either at home or abroad, is not occupying the attention of the Museum, and through this means its existence and aims are brought constantly and prominently before the public. These expositions have of late followed one another so closely, and have required such extensive preparations, as to interfere greatly with the ordinary work of the Museum, but the practice of introducing new and varied features, of showing a fresh series of objects or improved groupings in connection with each one, insures a substantial gain, when the collections are returned to Washington, besides fulfilling the important function of making museum methods known to the people of the United States and stimulating the growth of museums in many quarters.
Though mainly technical and most useful to the investigator, the publications of the Museum can be classed, in a general way, as belonging to its educational side, being the medium through which the nature and extent of its collections are made known. The Annual Report, first printed as a separate volume of the Smithsonian Report in 1884, and now in its twentieth volume, consists, besides the administrative part, mainly of semipopular papers on interesting portions of

<<<Page: 35>>>

the collections. The Proceedings and Bulletins are almost exclusively technical, the shorter papers being assigned to the former and the larger and more exhaustive works to the latter. Of the Proceedings twerty-four complete volumes have been issued, and of the Bulletins fifty-two numbers.
As stated in the last report, Congress, in its session of 1903, had authorized the erection of an additional building for the National Museum at a cost not to exceed $3,500,000, and the Board of Regents had appointed a committee to have charge of this important work. The superintendent of construction, Mr. Bernard R. Green, had been designated in the act of Congress, and the architects, Messrs. Hornblower & Marshall, who prepared the tentative sketches, had been selected by the Regents. ;
By the close of that year the architects had begun upon the elaboration of their plans, a work of slow progress, since the building is not for an object with which that profession, in any part of the world, has had much to do. There is no fixed pattern to follow, but it is hoped to correct some of the faults shown in buildings heretofore put up for the same purpose; to correct them all is beyond expectation. It has been the task of the Museum expert to explain his needs; it is now for the architect to express them in a definite and practical form. It is expected that this work will be satisfactorily accomplished, and a building produced meeting the requirements of science and the arts, as well as those proposed for architectural improvement at the national capital.
It is still too early to discuss the details of the plans. It may be said, however, that the building will be effective in appearance, substantial, and fireproof. It will have an abundance of light and be well ventilated and well heated. The reserve collections and the laboratories of each division will be in relatively close proximity to the corresponding exhibition collections, insuring convenience of study and oversight. Several elevators will connect the different stories, and the comfort of visitors will be fully provided for. Congress has called for plans for a central power and heating plant for the buildings on the Mall. The benefits of such a feature can not fail to be appreciated, but as some delay must occur in carrying out this measure, it is expected that the new Museum building will need. to have its own separate plant installed in the basement to meet at least its preliminary wants.
By the beginning of the calendar year 1904 tbe plans had been sufficiently advanced to fix definitely the main lines, the general dimensions, and the architectural design, though requiring still further study to

<<<Page: 36>>>

harmonize the parts and perfect the many details. At this stage they were, on January 27, approved by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, with the advice and consent of the Chancellor of the Institution and the chairman of the executive committee, as provided by the resolution of the Board of Regents. About this time also the expert personal services of Prof. 5. Homer Woodbridge, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, were engaged to plan the mechanical equipment of the building, including the apparatus for its heating, ventilation, and electric lighting.
The excavation for the building, the contract for which had been awarded to the Cranford Paving Company, of Washington, was begun on June 15,1904. The lateness of the season precluded the holding of a formal ceremony on that occasion, but the first spadeful of earth was turned by Secretary Langley in the presence of the superintendent of construction, the architects, and the employees of the Museum and Institution. Addressing the superintendent, Mr. Green, the Secretary, remarked:
On behalf of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, with the consent of the chancellor and of the chairman of the executive committee, I now authorize you, in accordance with the act of Congress, to proceed with the construction of the new building for the United States National Museum, designed to increase and diffuse the knowledge of the arts and sciences among the people.
The site of the building was also inclosed with a’ high board fence and a small frame structure was erected as the headquarters of superintendence. Immediately following the excavation, sometime during the summer, the work of building the foundations will be begun.
On preceding pages a brief history and a summary of the objects of the National Museum have been given. Becoming a prominent feature in the early programme of the Institution, the course of the Museum ran smoothly as long as there was room for its development. Its scope, defined by the organizing act of Congress, was as comprehensive as the sphere of human knowledge in so far as could be compassed by Museum methods. In the beginning its collections were practically all of natural history. Then appeared ethnology and archeology, and finally the arts and industries as exemplified in the work of modern man. In fact, the Museum building proper was intended mainly for the last-named subjects. So rapid, however, has been the growth of the collections that some confusion has resulted in their arrangement, and their appearance at present is no criterion of the wealth of the Museum or of its scope and anticipations. The Museum has back of it all the Government surveys, whether at home or abroad—a guaranty of the value of at least a large proportion of its

<<<Page: 37>>>

acquisitions. It has many friends, some the owners of large and important collections, who have come to recognize that in an institution founded by the Government for all time their specimens will be not only perpetually and securely cared for, but also at the service of every specialist who needs to consult them. Officials of the Government detailed for duty in the new possessions, rich in novelties of nature and of culture, are giving thought to the wants of their National Museum. By means of the duplicates, set aside as collections are worked over, exchanges are made with other museums, whereby important additions are obtained. The exhibition collections in some branches, notably the historical, owe many of their most attractive features to loans. These are not the property of the Museum and may only remain in its possession for short periods; but the spirit of liberality in this direction, long manifested, is growing steadily, until of late it has sometimes been necessary to decline important deposits on account of lack of room. This difficulty will be overcome upon the completion of the new building, whose greater accommodations and improved facilities will, it is hoped, prove an additional incentive to the possessors of collections, large or small, which may be instructive to the people.
In appropriating for the large expositions, of which many have been held in recent years, there has been a general understanding on the part of Congress that from the allotment to the National Museum the Museum shall gain something of permanent value. By judicious management, though the amounts have been small, the Museum has secured many unique specimens which it could not have obtained in any other way at its command. With several of the larger museums, which are well supplied with funds, it is customary to send out exploring expeditions even to distant regions, and some of these investigations are conducted on a very extensive scale. They are an lportant source of collections as well as of information, but the National Museum has neither the funds nor a sufticiently large staff to engage in such work except on a very small scale, generally in connection with one or other of the Government surveying expeditions, and with the object of obtaining material which these surveys do not collect.
There is one method of obtaining collections in which the National Museum has been weak, while by such means all of the larger museums of the world, whether national, municipal, or private, have acquired a large proportion of their treasures. This is in the direct expenditure of money for purchases. The importance of this method is not realized by Congress, though it might be, were the matter given thorough consideration and were the proper relations of the Museum to those bureaus of the Government which are charged by Congress with the investigation of agricultural, mining, fishery, and

<<<Page: 38>>>

other like problems, better understood. The specimens resulting from all Government surveys and investigations are transferred to the National Museum as soon as the studies upon them are completed. The Museum is, therefore, the depository for all Government collections. Those who wish to consult them, whether in the Government employ or strangers to it, must come to the Museum. It is, therefore, to be concluded that the National Museum is not a passive body, but one most actively concerned in the development of the welfare of the country. Yet, in a general way, the investigators of practical problems for the Government find here only what they themselves have collected. They need more complete series of objects in order that their studies may be more complete, and at least for the benefit of the industries of the country the gaps in the series should be filled up as opportunity offers. An expert set to work upon a problem of far-reaching economic importance requires to have before him all the material possible, that nothing bearing upon his subject shall escape his observation. It is the province of a large central museum to possess these extended collections, classified and arranged so that they may at all times be accessible.
The curio shop of old has given way to the modern museum, with its definite purpose based upon experience and the advance of knowledge during many years. While the purpose may vary in accordance with the character and advantages of a museum, none can doubt that it should be the primary object of a great national museum like the one at Washington to subserve the needs of the Government, to do a large part toward promoting the material interests of the people.
It is in this spirit and with these objects in view that appropriations are asked for the purchase of such specimens as can not be acquired in other ways. To approach perfection in the rounding out of collections is in itself naturally very gratifving, but to do this for the purpose of benefiting the practical investigations of the Government is the chief aim of the National Museum. Private collectors and students have spent their lives in bringing together special collections which are often far more perfect than can be obtained through the means supplied by the Government, and rare and unique objects of exceeding value fall into the hands of individuals. The National Museum should have the means of acquiring such of these as are required for the purposes of the Government, and all this with the understanding that the Museum is only a part of the system organized by the Government for improving the condition of its people.
The collections are separated into practically two series, the so-called reserve or working series being arranged for the convenience of investigators, while for the instruction and entertainment of the public ample provision is made here as elsewhere, much more room, in fact, having been allotted to. this than to other purposes. There is, of

<<<Page: 39>>>

course, a limit beyond which any display becomes bewildering and tiresome, but that point has not yet been reached in this Museum. The exhibition collections comprise selections from all the branches represented, and only enough from each to serve the desired purpose. In some branches, however, like history, nearly all the material objects are appropriate for exhibition,and find their most appreciative critics among the general public. In other branches, moreover, there are many large objects which can best be cared for in the exhibition halls, and are, therefore, nearly always seen there.
A third division of the collections, one prepared for general teachers and young students, as suggested by Dr. F. A. Bather, of the British Museum, might readily be arranged when additional room becomes available, but there is less need for such in this country than seems to be the case abroad, since nearly all the schools and colleges throughout the United States have their own collections, especially of natural history, supplied in part from the duplicates in the national collections.
It will thus be seen that the collections which come to the National Museum are being utilized to the fullest extent and in a most liberal manner. The reserve series, comprising the specimens which have already been worked up and are held as records of past investigations, together with those which still remain to be studied, constitute the technically important part of the Museum, and alone justify its existence. The public collections, however, take the greatest amount of space, require the largest expenditure of money, and demand the most ingenuity in their selection and arrangement. There remain the duplicates, only known to be such as the work of classification proceeds, which serve the double purpose of securing valuable returns through exchange and of promoting education by their gratuitous distribution to schools and colleges. The amount of material used for the latter purpose since this practice was established over half a century ago, has been very great.
The greatest discrepancy to-day in the administration of the Museum results, however, from an insuflicient staff, not as regards ethciency but numbers. Only one who has had to do with the management of such a large trust can fully appreciate the significance of this statement, and those clothed with power to correct this condition have not yet come to thoroughly understand the importance of the matter. The responsibilities in administering upon a national museum of this great and free country are probably much heavier than those in any other land. The policy recognized in every branch of the Government of the United States, and sanctioned by Congress, is to do for the people whatever is possible. This Government is doing for its people what no other government has ventured to attempt, and the result is a condition of extreme prosperity and contentment. And

<<<Page: 40>>>

is no share of credit for this condition to be given to the National Museum?’ It plays an important part in this great programme of which it is: supremely proud, and while Congress may not yet fully realize what it accomplishes in this respect, the public does, and demands more than it can perform.
For the conduct of its technical work the Museum is able to employ less than 35 persons of all grades. Nearly as many more employees of the Government give as much of their time as can be spared in the interest of the classification of the collections and their supervision. For the proper installation and maintenance of the exhibition collections, in which Congress places much store, further skilled help is required, and a supervision which has long been inadequate. The force of watchmen employed for the safety of the collections, both by day and night, would be scareely equal to the task of protecting, under the same circumstances, even the contents of a large jewelry store. The Museum contains objects whose intrinsic value mounts into the hundreds of thousands of dollars, many of which are so small that several could be carried away in a man’s pocket. In a jewelry establishment the valuables are packed away each evening in large safes. Such a course is impossible in the Museum, owing to the number of its treasures. They must be left in the cases, and yet the appropriations permit of so small a force of watchmen that they are kept under great and constant strain to prevent the abstraction of what could never be replaced.
Beginning years ago Congress, in the interest of their constituents, looked to the Museum for the analysis of mining products and for the identification of objects of every kind. These demands have increased rapidly, and their satisfaction has always been regarded as within the legitimate province of the Museum. ‘The fact, however, is not appreciated that work of this character requires the attention of trained experts, and the time of the scientific staff is largely occupied in complying with such requests. In preparing the letters of reply, in registering the specimens received, in cataloguing, in taking down the notes of investigators, in arranging and keeping track of the collections, a comparatively large intelligent clerical force is required. In the preparation of duplicate collections, in the shipping and receiving room, in the library, in the making of cases and the installation of specimens, in the keeping clean of all the large halls, there must be help, and at the minimum this is no small item.
The U.S. National Museum is like no other museum in this country, and it has no parallel in the world. Elsewhere, with few exceptions, museums exist solely for what may be termed museum purposes. They promote science and they promote the arts. Many are powerful factors in education and in the improvement of industries: The U.S. National
NAT Mus 1904

<<<Page: 41>>>

Museum attempts to do the same within the limits of its scope, but it has an added function in that it shares a part of the executive work of the Government. The correspondence with members of Congress and with the Executive Departments is very large, but not nearly as extensive as that with the public, and all is supposed to relate to business on which the Museum only is in a position to furnish information. The frequent expositions also greatiy increase the burden of work, for, though special appropriations are made for them, it is necessary to call upon the skilled employees of the Museum to a large extent. This means that a proportionately larger force is required than in museums generally, and the increase is as necessary outside as within the scientific staff.
It is not to be expected that a complete staff will ever be within the means of the Museum—that is to say, a staff sufficient to do especially all the classificatory work required. Such a staff bas nowhere been assembled. In a proper organization, however, there should be an adequate number of experts, some at least of the highest rank, to control and supervise the several subjects represented. In this respect the National Museum is now far below the standard. The members of its staff, while acting as custodians of the collections, should be competent to assist extensively in their classification, should appreciate their value and significance, and should have the faculty of keeping order, so that any specimen in their care can readily be found.
The classification of collections must always be largely done by outsiders, the result of the specialization of study, and this is the course now almost universally pursued as a matter of necessity when large collections are being worked up. In accordance with this plan, the National Museum has now many experts at work on special parts of its collections, most of them-connected with institutions in the United States, but some abroad. In this way the collections are being classified in the most accurate manner possible. When they are returned to Washington they need the same oversight as before, but their value has been enhanced by the fact that the specimens are no longer an uncertain quantity.
Other parts of the business of the Museum can not be carried on in the same way—the administration, the correspondence, the care of the ccllections and their installation for reference or exhibition, the watch service, the skilled help m the mechanical departments and in the preparation of specimens, and the labor required to keep the buildings clean, to do the moving and lifting and to assist in every branch of work—the workers in these directions can not be omitted from the staff, nor can their labor be performed by volunteer assistance.
Among other important needs of the Museum are means for maintaining its library on a better basis. The library is purely technical, having no other use than to provide for the working up of the collec

<<<Page: 42>>>

tions, but the small annual appropriation given for this purpose is inadequate even to provide the current literature on the necessary subjects, though the freest use be made of the Library of Congress.
There is still another subject to which it is desirable that reference should be made—the extension of the hours of opening the buildings to the public so as to include Sundays and evenings. A change in this direction would be of inestimable value to the working people as well as to visitors to the capital, and the extra expense would be small.
The writer desires to call attention in this connection to the part now being taken by the Museum, in conjunction with the parent institution and its other bureaus, at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. The Museum has had a jong experience in matters of this kind, beginning with Philadelphia in 1876, and it is therefore to be expected that some improvement would be shown at each succeeding exposition. The display at the St. Louis Fair now in progress is more noteworthy than anything that has preceded it, both in the novelty of the objects exhibited and in the perfection and attractiveness of the installation, which have already elicited much praise

<<<Page: 43>>>



<<<Page: 44>>>

SurviEbe wre On Lh OPERATIONS OF THE Y HAR.
The total amount appropriated by Congress for the maintenance of the National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1904, was $269,400, as against $281,400 for the previous year. The decrease was due to the omission of the appropriation of $7,000 for publishing the ‘‘ Contributions from the U.S. National Herbarium,” and to the fact that there was no necessity for renewing the item of $5,000 appropriated the previous year for the preparation of preliminary plans for an additional Museum building. <A special appropriation of $250,000 was made as the first installment of the cost of this building.
The expenditures up to the close of the year from the appropriations for 1903-4 amounted to $254,286.59, leaving a balance of $15,113.41 to meet outstanding liabilities. During the same year $22,479.50 were disbursed from the balance of $23,408.14 of the appropriation for 1902-3, on hand July 1, 1903.
The following tables show the expenditures during the year 1903-04, under each item of appropriation:
Appropriations and expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904.
Balance
Object. Su prone Expendi | J une 30,
u = | 22 EP | Eases 2
IPTENERY aUOUOMCOleChLONSHEL 2 o4 Jolek aicns ace cdesesace ee ncess $180,000.00 | $173,860.01 | $6,189.99 MGR RMR Ha LTE eR RES eS Oe eee 22, 500. 00 | 19, 068. 02 3, 431.98 Heating and lighting ..... eer ag hteds SIT soo ek 18,000.00} 17,184. 42 815. 58 EXTECH Pane Pall CMe meena her Peete ais ee Sea a SIS Src inceete oes 15, 000. 00 | 12, 531. 68 2, 468. 32 Books, pamphlets, and periodicals.........--.-----eee 2, 000. 00 | 1, 227. 60 | 772. 40 PUNGhASclOuSPECIMCUS PEs ee tess n os css eee nee 10, 000. 00 | 8,517.73 1, 482. 27 RETO WORK SNODSE meme eer meee ete an rae 2 wo einwie oe -jceee co een 4, 400. 00 4, 399. 92 | . 08 Postage. ....ere ee eas ete te os st tlh sek 500. 00 500. 00 | eeetans case lenimai hee erave! | oney sie SAN Oa ee en eee er 17, 000. 00 | 16, 997. 21 2.79 QUOT 5 oe oinnd oes 8 Be ee BEE SEES eee ae 269,400.00 | 254, 286. 59 15, 113. 41

<<<Page: 45>>>

Disbursements from unexpended balances of appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908.
| Baladee
Balance
Object. San Bapentt | We Preseryationion colleetionsss-secenece a eee eee eee eee eee ee $9, 597. 20 | $9, 196. 97 $400. 23 Hnrmiture and: fxbures!. 5. 4.22.2 <i Sseaeecee eases ee ase | 1, 696. 24 | 1, 688. 66 | 12. 58 Heatinevandulishtinpass-peace es eereneste Ce ener eee eee 1, 962. 63 | 1, 950.77 | 11. 86 Building repairs:.).3 22c.. sen a2leeeece hacen ee nates eee eres ees 1, 528. 97 1, 470. 95 58. 04 Books, pamphletey ete: 02. acae eae heen eee | 606.62 556. 86 | 49.76 Purchase olspecimens!see-.cesete eee seen eee ae 4, 000. 69 | 3, 690. 51 350. 18 RentiolL workshops fn -cacee see eee eee ee ee nee eee eee n OSS ace acter eee ee | .08 Publishing contributions from National Herbarium .......... | 3, 972. 51 3, 969. 80 | 2a Plans fora ddinional ptt Gin oer e eee eee eee eee eee Ads 20 tse afters 43. 20
Nota hesass sau. cewus ohasscked ase aos scam cmesen cena 23, 408. 14 22,479.50 928. 64
Disbursements from the appropriation for 1901-02 were made as follows: Preservation of collections, $100.52; books, pamphlets, and periodicals, $165.89; purchase of specimens, $20, leaving balances of $58.64, $32.38, and $35.26, respectively. These balances, together with unexpended balances of the appropriation for furniture and fixtures, heating and lighting, building repairs, construction of galleries and rent of workshops, pee tts to $161.43, have reverted to the surplus fund of the Treasury.
The regular appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1905, are as follows:
Hurniture and fixtures. 225.2 22 dic ances classe see ee ee ee eee $22, 500 eating ‘and: lighting =~ 2. h2. aos Sc See ee eee 18, 000 reservation: of collections) 2.2228 2.22 eee 2 Sor ee ee eee 180, 000 Booksspamphietsvand) periodicals s=ses essen eer eee eee 2, 000 Building repairs 2222S S..0 ee ne he ee ee 15, 000 Rentioi workshops. s22 a. ose5ese 22 aon So ease eee 4, 580 POSt8 9G) -j2i22 ous nee See eSie Sasise Soe Soe oe ee OC ee 500 Printing and“ binding’.. 22. s.2.onche se ec eee ee ee ee 25, 000
Totals. ..dccdet Soca eee ee ee eee 267, 580
It will be observed that the item for printing and binding has been increased from $17,000 to $25,000, and that for rent of workshops from $4,400 to $4,580; while the appropriation of $10, 000 for the purchase of specimens ee been omitted. With these exceptions the appropriations are the same as for the fiscal year 1904.
The progress made toward the construction of an additional building for the National Museum has been described in a previous part of this report. The architects’ plans had advanced so far that actual work upon the site was possible by June 15, 1904, on which date the excava

<<<Page: 46>>>

tion of the ground was started. The building of the foundations will follow next, and should be completed before winter.
The very unsatisfactory condition of the roof of the present Museum building has been repeatedly referred to, and attention has also been called to the fact that any repairs which can now be made will be essentially temporary, since the supporting iron framework over the main halls lacks sufficient strength, and the slate covering can not be made entirely tight, whereby leaks occur where least expected, damaging the walls and at times even defacing the cases. The difficulty with the slate results largely from the contraction and expansion of the framework, due to changes in temperature, and heavy falls of snow have also caused parts of the iron structure to buckle.
~The faulty character of the roof is undoubtedly due to the cheap manner in which it was originally constructed. The only remedy seems to be the substitution of a new roof, at least over the large halls, courts, and rotunda. Such an extensive repair is impracticable at this time, or until the new building is finished, as there is no place in which the collections could be stored. In the meantime, however, with the aid of experts, strong efforts are being made to render the roofs effective for a few years longer without the necessity for constant and unavailing attention. The “oie was started during last year and will be continued during the present one.
The area of tin roofing around the rotunda and over the eight ranges, which had greatly deteriorated, was thoroughly repaired, all imperfect tin being replaced and many seams resoldered. The rotunda roof was extended down over the old top gutters and new overhanging gutters, and down spouts were added. The slate roof over the east hall was, as an experiment, covered with a coating of Bermuda asphalt, burlap, and slag, intended to fill the interspaces between the slates and to present an unbroken surface for carrying off the water. Up to the time of writing, this expedient seems to have answered its purpose well, and should it continue to do so, the other slate roofs will be treated in the same way. The work about the roof has also included repairs to the skylights and to clear-story and rotunda windows, the insertion of ventilator frames in many of these, and the addition of skylights over two of the ranges, made necessary by the construction of galleries.
The dilapidated platform in front of the main entrance has been replaced with one of mosaic, consisting of large irregular marble fragments, and the steps and side coping have been reset.
The repairs in the interior of the Museum building have been chiefly of a minor character, though in the aggregate extensive. They have related mainly to the floors and to the walls and ceilings. The stenciling of the rotunda walls, which had been deferred until the roof of

<<<Page: 47>>>

this part of the building had been made more secure, was also In progress at the close of the year. :
Many persistent leaks about the roof of the Smithsonian building, which previous repairs had not corrected, were found to be mainly due to the imperfect condition of the old tin gutters and down spouts, which were reptired during the year, copper being generally substituted where a renewal of material was necessary.
Reference has been made in earlier reports to the unsafe condition of the plastering in Archeological Hall, which began to show innumerable large cracks several years ago. At times smali pieces of the plaster would fall, but in September, 1902, several such large masses gave way from the ceiling as to damage the cases underneath and emphasize the fact that the hall should he closed to the public. — It was only during the past year that the damage could be repaired, and this necessitated a very considerable undertaking. The entire area of plaster was carefully tested and all loose parts were removed. ‘The bare places were carefully pointed up, but the plaster cornices of the large central panels were replaced by others of galvanized iron, as being the cheaper method. Subsequently the room was painted in water color, the walls green, the ceiling in light tints of green to ivory. This extensive repair greatly disturbed the arrangement of the archeological collections, and a considerable period will be required for the renovation of the cases and the reinstallation of their contents.
The number of cases made during the year was 212, the number of specimen drawers 3,378, these having been chiefly required for the storage and arrangement of collections received from Government surveys. A large part of the work done under the head of ‘* Furniture and fixtures,” however, has consisted in the repair and renovation of ‘ases; the making and inserting of fittings in the exhibition cases, including the shelving and their supports, and the tablets and other devices on which the specimens are mounted; the more extensive supports for the mounting of large exhibits, such as recent and fossil vertebrates and ethnological and archeological objects; the making of label-holders and the painting of large labels and signs for the cases and halls, and the construction of laboratory and office furniture.
Rearrangements in certain parts of the building have necessitated a few readjustments of the electric-light wiring, and there have been some minor extensions of this system into storerooms and laboratories not previously so provided. A small electric motor has also been installed in the geological workshops in the Emery building.
The high-pressure steam boilers placed in the Museum building in the summer of 1901 have continued to give satisfaction. From this source both of the large buildings, as well as the several smaller ones adjacent, are now heated. There has been the usual amount of repairs in connection with the heating apparatus, and it has been found neces

<<<Page: 48>>>

sary to increase the number of radiators in some of the halls. Steam was first raised in the boilers on October 10, 1903, and, with some interruptions, continued to be maintained until May 38, 1904.
The fire apparatus was thoroughly overhauled during the year and its condition greatly improved. Some of the extinguishers of old pattern were replaced by others of more recent make and more effective character.
The amount of labor involved in maintaining the cleanliness of the buildings can scarcely be appreciated except by those who have the matter in charge. Twenty-two exhibition halls, mostly of large size and many containing galleries, and 89 laboratories, office rooms, toilet rooms, ete., require to be swept and dusted every morning, and, for the most part, before 9 o’clock. In this enumeration is not included the outside buildings. The number of regular laborers and cleaners amounts to only 22, and these same men are also fully occupied throughout the day on other matters. The number of exhibition cases of which the glass has to be kept clean and the woodwork free from dust is over 1,300.
The National Museum, as the legally constituted depository for the science and art collections of the Government, has as its most constant and important sources of supply the national surveys and explorations, such as are conducted by the Geological Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, the Biological Survey and Bureaus of Entomology and Plant Industry of the Department of Agriculture, and the Bureau of American Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution. But these are not the only Government branches which conduct explorations. The Departments of War and of the Navy sent out many important expeditions during the early and middle part of the last century, and in connection with the recent acquisition of new territory they have again furnished the opportunity for securing valuable collections. Interesting objects are also sent home from time to time by members of the consular service of the State Department. A large part of the additions to the Museum are, however, received from individuals and private establishments, through donation and exchange, and the exhibition series derives many of its attractive features from loans or deposits. Field collecting by members of the Museum staff is almost prohibited by the scarcity of funds, and the acquisition of specimens by purchase 1s seriously restricted because of the small appropriation for that purpose.
Appendix II of this report contains a complete list of the accessions for the year, and the more noteworthy are described in the reports of the head curators.
The number of separate lots of material received during the year
was 1,703, as against 1,643 in 1903, aggregating about 241,527 speci

<<<Page: 49>>>

mens and thereby increasing the total number of specimens recorded in all of the departments to approximately 5,898,493. Of these, nearly 4,200,000 belong to the Department of Biology, about 975,000 to Anthropology, and about 730,000 to Geology.
The additions in anthropology during 1904 numbered 19,121 specimens, of which the more important were many carefully selected objects obtained by Dr. W. L. Abbott among the natives of the Malay Peninsula, northern Sumatra, and the Mentawei Archipelago. These, in conjunction with the previous generous contributions of Doctor Abbott from the same and other parts of southern Asia, constitute an exceedingly valuable and unique feature of the ethnological collections, and are now being used as the basis for a monographic report by Professor Mason and Doctor Hough.. The same explorer also sent material bearing upon the physical characteristics of the Moros, and of apes and monkeys.
Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. 8. Army, who has continued his scientific work while on duty in the Philippine Islands, presented an especially interesting collection made by him personally during a campaign against the Moros of Mindanao. It is rich in weapons, basketry, and tine brass work. Another Moro collection, received as a loan from Dr. R. B. Grubbs, also of the United States Army, consists of edged weapons, spears, armor, costumes, and other specimens of the handiwork of those people. Several native Philippine Island firearms were presented by the President of the United States.
Two totem poles and four house posts of large size and excellent workmanship, taken from a Tlinkit village, were obtained through Dr. George A. Dorsey, of the Field Columbian Museum, and a valuable lot of art objects from southwestern Alaska, consisting of carved clubs, embroidered blankets, figures, knives, etc., through Lieut. G. T. Emmons, U.S. Navy. Some important additions were made to the already large collections of Indian basketry, musical instruments, and folklore.
The large archeological collection which had belonged to the late Dr. Thomas Wilson, curator of prehistoric archeology, and which remained on deposit in the Museum during his lifetime, was purchased during the year. It consists of over 19,000 pieces, of which somewhat under two-thirds are of European origin, the remainder being from North America. The European material covers a wide range, beginning with the roughly shaped flint implements of the river gravels of England and France, and ending with the more highly elaborated objects of the polished stone and bronze ages. The American specimens are mainly from Virginia, Tennessee, and Arkansas.
The very valuable collection of archeological objects obtained in Porto Rico, Trinidad, Grenada, Barbados, Dominica, Cuba, and other

<<<Page: 50>>>

West Indian islands, during the winter of 1903, by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, has been transferred to the keeping of the Museum. It contains a great variety of objects, some of the most noteworthy being especially fine examples of stone collars, tripointed stone zemes, earthenware bowls, carved stone faces, amulets, etc., all of which were secured in the course of a thoroughly systematic investigation of the island region between North and South America. The same Bureau also deposited a large series of stone and bone implements, pieces of pottery and woven work, and fragments of animal and human bones, collected by Mr. E. H. Jacobs in caverns, rock shelters, and village sites in the Ozark region of Missouri and Arkansas.
‘By bequest of the late Mr. I. H. Harris, of Waynesville, Ohio, there was obtained a large and varied collection of stone implements, with some shell beads and carvings and a few copper implements and ornaments, mainly from the Miami Valley of Ohio, and of typical earthenware vessels from mounds near Charlestown, Missouri. Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr, of England, presented an unusually interesting series of Egyptian stone implements, mainly of a type peculiar to the desert of the Fayum district, about 10 miles from the present limits of cultivation. From Mr. Felix F. Outes were secured several earthenware vessels taken from aboriginal graves in the province of Catamarca, Argentina.
A number of casts of Assyro-Babylonian, Egyptian, and GreecoRoman sculptures were obtained by purchase, and several others by donation from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. In this collection is a stela engraved with the code of laws of the Babylonian King, Hammurabi. <A series of heliogravures of Hellenistic portraits was presented by Mr. Theodor Graf, of Vienna, Austria; and knives and flint implements from the Temple of Osiris, Abydos, were received from the Egyptian Exploration Fund.
To the recently established Division of Physical Anthropology there were added more than 2,000 crania and skeletons by transfer from the Army Medical Museum, 14 crania of Wasco Indians from the Fred. Harvey collection, and other desirable specimens.
The additions to the historical collections included a valuable series of relics presented to the Smithsonian Institution by Gen. John Watts de Peyster, who has also made several large contributions of important historical works; the gilt dress sword presented to Gen. Jacob Brown by the State of New York, for services during the war of 1812, donated by his grandson, Mr. Nathan Brown Chase; the sword and epaulets worn by Gen. Alex. McComb, U. 8. Army, deposited by Mrs. F. C. d’Hautville; a fine oil painting of George Catlin by W. H. Fisk, R.A., lent by his daughter, Mrs. Louise Catlin Kinney, and now hung in

<<<Page: 51>>>

the midst of the famous Catlin collection of Indian portraits, and numerous relics deposited by the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution.
The technological exhibits have been materially increased, among the accessions of special and to a great extent also of historical interest being a collection of rifles, muskets, and other firearms, 615 in number, showing the improvements of many years and containing several noteworthy pieces, deposited by the Bureau of Ordnance of the War Department; a collection of sporting rifles of the kinds used in this country prior to about 1850, accompanied by powderhorns, ete., lent by Mr. Herman Hollerith; a finely finished .44-caliber rifle made by Henry Deringer, of Philadelphia, and often used by David Crockett in target practice, lent by Col. Wright Rives; a rare form of flintlock pistol with folding bayonet, presented by Mr. Paul Beckwith; a collection of Morse telegraph keys, insulators, and other electrical apparatus in use about 1850, presented by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company; a telegraph switch invented in 1855 by E. W. Culgan, of Pittsburg, and generally employed down to 1865, donated by Mr. C. 5S. Greer, of Zanesville, Ohio, and a collection illustrating the development of the hand camera, contributed by the Eastman Kodak Company.
The accessions to the Department of Biology embraced 151,273 specimens, or nearly 41,000 more than the previous year. The collection of insects was increased by 58,953 specimens and the herbarium by 48,800, the remaining 48,520 specimens being divided among the other divisions.
The most extensive of the zoological additions in point of number of specimens consisted of about 40,000 insects collected in British Columbia by Dr. Harrison G. Dyar, assisted by Mr. R. P. Currie and Mr. A. N. Caudell. The Bureau of Fisheries transmitted large collections of land and fresh-water shells, reptiles, and crustaceans from Indiana and other States; a valuable series of marine mollusks, chiefly from Alaska; the types of recently described fishes from Japan, the Hawaiian Islands, etc.; fishes, crustaceans, and corals secured in connection with the Alaskan Salmon Fisheries Investigation of 1903, and 461 plants from Alaska and Oregon.
Especially worthy of mention are important zoological contributions from the Mentawei Archipelago, eastern Sumatra, and the various islands off that coast, obtained and presented by Dr. William L. Abbott. Thirty-one new forms of mammals, including one new genus and two new species of gibbon and several new species of birds, are represented in the collection from the archipelago, while that from eastern Sumatra also contains very valuable material, among which are numerous forms of birds and reptiles not previously represented in the Museum. Several valuable lots of mammals, birds, and mol

<<<Page: 52>>>

lusks from Minnesota and the Philippine Islands were donated ‘hy Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army. A large number of mammals, birds, reptiles, and fishes from the Bahama Islands were secured as the result of the expedition sent out by the Baltimore Geographical Society, and of which Mr. B. A. Bean and Mr. J. H. Riley, of the Museum staff, were members. A valuable collection of birds’ eggs and reptiles from Texas was transmitted by the Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture. Other miscellaneous lots consisted of birds, land shells, and insects from the mountains of Venezuela, and of bats and birds from Barbuda and Antigua islands.
Noteworthy among the mammals received were a specimen of a remarkable species of bat, Huderma maculatum, presented by Mr. E. O. Wooton, of Mesilla Park, New Mexico; the first authentic specimen of a jaguar from the United States; a rare mouse-deer, Tragulus stanleyanus, obtained from M. Emile Deschamps; a collection of Old World mammals, from Mr. W. Schliiter; a collection of Japanese mammals, from Mr. T. Tsuchida; some rare forms of bats from the British Museum; a collection of Colombian mammals from the American Museum of Natural History, and a number of bats from Cuba, the gift of Capt. Wirt Robinson, U. S. Army.
An interesting series of birds of the Philippine Islands was secured by exchange with the museum in Manila. Mr. Homer Davenport, of East Orange, New Jersey, donated a number of young pheasants, and Mr. N. C. Brown, of Portland, Maine, a well-prepared series of birds from South Carolina. Four species of birds-of-paradise, new to the collection, were purchased. Dr. W. L. Ralph, of the Museum staff, and Gen. J. W. Barlow made generous contributions to the collection of birds’ eggs, and series of rare Mexican eggs and of the eggs of the hoactzin were purchased.
A collection of Japanese reptiles was presented by Dr. Hugh M. Smith, Deputy Commissioner of Fisheries, and some rare reptiles of southern Florida by Mr. E. J. Brown, of Lemon City, Florida. The Division of Fishes has received a large number of Japanese species from the Leland Stanford Junior University, and a well-prepared series of specimens from Puget Sound, donated by Dr. J. C. Thompson, U. S. Navy. A specimen of the Japanese shark, M/tsuhkurda owstoni, 11 feet long, was purchased.
Hawaiian land shelis and other invertebrates were received from Mr. H. W. Henshaw, of Hilo, Hawaii; Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, associate in zoology, now residing in Los Angeles, California, presented an extensive series of west American shells, and Mr. H. N. Lowe and Mrs. Blanche Trask several lots of Californian shells. Mr. E. J. Court, of Washington City, donated a representative series of the land shells of Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia; Mr. Dwight Blaney, about 300 shells dredged near Mount Desert, Maine,

<<<Page: 53>>>

and Mr. C. A. Davis, many Bermuda shells, including several cotypes. Among the specimens obtained by purchase was a large collection of Japanese land and marine mollusks, and land shells from the Pacific coast and the islands off California. Rey. L. T, Chamberlain presented a small collection of rare river mussels.
The division of marine invertebrates received a collection of Mexican fresh-water crabs from the Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture; crustaceans from Catalina and San Clemente islands, presented by Mr. H. N. Lowe; cotypes of a species of shrimp and of a stomatopod crustacean from the National Museum of Brazil; several beautiful specimens of four species of Japanese precious coral, from Dr. K. Kishinouye, and a collection of sea urchins, chiefly from the Gulf of Siam, from the Zoological Museum in Copenhagen.
The additions to the division of insects were numerous and valuable. Among those of greatest importance, next to the one already mentioned, may be noted two lots of over 6,000 specimens from. the Department of Agriculture; an extensive collection of Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, etc., made by Mr. KE. A. Schwarz in Cuba; several lots of Philippine insects from Rey. W. A. Stanton, of Manila, and one from Mr. R. C. McGregor, of the Philippine Museum; a miscellaneous collection from the grounds of the Washington Biologists’ Field Club at Plummers Island; a valuable collection of Lepidoptera, from Mr. KE. M. Anderson, of the Provincial Museum at Victoria, British Columbia, and a large collection from Colorado and New Mexico from Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell. From foreign sources the following collections were received as gifts: Indian Hymenoptera from Maj. C. G. Nurse; Indian spiders from Prof. N. Jambunathan; Venezuelan beetles from Mr. Edward A. Klages; Peruvian insects from Mr. M. J. Pusey; Norwegian Lepidoptera from Sir George Hampson, of the British Museum, and Japanese Hymenoptera from Prof. S. Matsumura, of Sapporo.
Of 555 accessions to the division of plants, the most valuable was the deposit made by Dr. E. L. Greene of his very valuable collection of about 60,000 sheets of plants and his entire botanical library, consisting of about 3,000 volumes and pamphlets. Next in importance was the gift by Mrs. T. A. Williams, of Memphis, Nebraska, of about 15,000 specimens from various parts of the United States. Mr. C. V. Piper, of Pullman, Washington, presented 658 plants from that State, and Mr. E. W. D. Holway, of Minneapolis, Minnesota, an interesting collection of Mexican plants. Important exchanges were made with the Philippine Bureau of Agriculture, the New York Botanical Garden, and the Royal Gardens at Kew, England. Sixty-eight botanical accessions were received from the Department of Agriculture, the most important comprising specimens obtained in Texas by Mr. Arthur Howell, in New Mexico and Oklahoma by Mr. Fred G. Plummer, and

<<<Page: 54>>>

in New Mexico by Mr. Vernon Bailey. Plants from Australia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and from several of the States were acquired by purchase.
There were 690 accessions to the Department of Geology, the most extensive coming, as usual, from the U.S. Geological Survey. Prominent among them were about 40,000 invertebrate fossils, mostly named, and including a large amount of material on which Dr. William H. Dall and his assistants have been working for several years. The Survey also transmitted a series of 1,932 tertiary insects, assembled by Dr. Samuel H. Scudder, but in large part still unworked, together with many hundred original drawings, a great part of which are unpublished. The acquisition of these specimens is believed to make the Museum collection of fossil insects the largest in the United States, if not in the world.
To the division of physical and chemical geology there were added a collection of platiniferous rocks from the Demidoff mines of Russia, presented by Mr. Juarez Sponville; a series of rocks illustrating the occurrence and association of diamonds at the De, Beers Consolidated Mines, Kimberly, South Africa, donated by Mr. Gardner F, Williams, manager of the mines; a beautiful nugget of native silver, from Mr. A. L. Pellegrin, of Nogales, Arizona; a specimen of diamond-bearing gravel from Minas Geraes, Brazil, to which a small diamond was attached, from Dr. O. A. Derby, of Sao Paulo, arid a fine mass of amethystine quartz, weighing about 400 pounds, taken from the extraordinary geode discovered a few years ago in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
The division of minerals was enriched by a large collection illustrating the occurrence and association of zeolites and siliceous minerals in the trap rocks of New Jersey, obtained through the assistance of Dr. W. 8S. Disbrow, of Newark, New Jersey, who also transmitted one of the first known crystals of American spodumene obtained in the early part of the nineteenth century. Other important gifts were a specimen of pink spodumene used as gem material, from Mr. F. M. Sickler; a series of artificial stones used in the gem trade, from Mr. Oscar T. Jonassohn; a cut turquoise from North Carolina, from Mr. Eugene A. Smith, and some fine specimens of smoky quartz from Montana, from Messrs. A. P. Pohndorf and J. R. Wharton.
For the meteorite collection specimens illustrating the Trenzano fall, the Franceville, Missouri, iron, the Mukerop, South Africa, iron, and the Finnmarken pallasite were acquired.
Of invertebrate fossils, the accession next in importance to those transferred by the U. 8. Geological Survey was the last portion of the E. O. Ulrich collection, containing about 15,000 specimens, including 500 lots of original types or of specimens that have been used for illustration. A series of Lower Silurian fossils, selected by Mr. Charles

<<<Page: 55>>>

Schuchert while in Russia, was presented by the Imperial Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg, through the cooperation of Dr. Frederich von Schmidt, and a valuable donation consisting of nearly 600 specimens of Hamilton brachiopods was received from the Yale University Museum. By exchange with the Zoological Museum of the University of Copenhagen more than a hundred specimens of identified European mesozoic and tertiary bryozoans were obtained.
To the collection of fossil vertebrates were added fine specimens of pterodactyl, ichthyosaurus, and teleosaurus; some fishes from the lithographic limestone, and a fossil skull of Béson allend from a placer deposit of frozen gravel, 25 feet below the surface. The object last mentioned is especially noteworthy as being the first specimen of the species discovered in Alaska. It was secured through the efforts of Gen. Timothy E. Wilcox, U. 5. A. (retired), and was presented to the ‘Museum by Mr. Donald McLean, of Rampart City, Alaska. .
One hundred and thirty-two fossil plants, collected from the higher beds of the anthracite series, were donated by Mr. C. W. Unger, of Pottsville, Pennsylvania, and 190 specimens of fossil plants from Ilhnois, Ohio, and other localities, forming part of the Carl Rominger collection, were also obtained.
The approximate number of specimens received by the Museum during the year and the total number in the possession of the Museum at the close of the year are recorded in the following table:
| Number | of speciDepartment. | mens _| Total. | received | in 1903-04
Anthpopology:
Bthnolopy. ol 05 Bon ee eG ee ee PPS ES 2,392 |. 480, 456 Historie: areheolosys .4s2 seth ee eee eee Ratti Roce eee eee 115 2,338 Hustoriemelisionsiss-s-te see eee eeeeee ic a eI So OR ae a Te eee 2,769 Prehistoric archeolopy> seceee eee eee eee eee eee See Seay ae eee ae 12, 474 387, 455 Technology? ook o's Sacer one eg ee 826 32,019 Graphi¢ arts.1<5 222.202 ASA Sees Sa a oe a eee ee [etioeae cons 8, 896 Medicine 2)... 308.05 ic See oe Rae oe Sees hee ee ee ert il 6, 890 HNStORy see een wSinsicieit hrocleins Seis Soe setae a aeee pees HOSE eee eee eene | 892 43, 940 Physical anthropology 2 52.2 vase. deen Sees cee Sale ae lee ee a ee eee 2,374 5, 144 Ceramics. .2:. =: -S35355.6ee a5 = ee ee ee 2 4,612 Photography: ..02 25 seca ci ee eo ee a ee eee | 28 | 1, 828 MUSIC. 223i wins oe 3 Saas Be ote ee ER ane OEE Se aoe ee eee years | 17 1, 642 Biology: : | | Mammal s!s9sseesee eee tee h Spa Oe (8 dei ieey err es Senne eee ly 23970 84, 645 Birds” <3... 2s20,4.. 2 6s)c BB ee oe ee ee ee ene 2,591 136, 226 Birds" CG29'2. 0052.0 30655 Skee Oa eee nee ee eee | 1, 085 65, 150 Reptiles.and Datrachians 3.5. see ee Se ee ee eee 2, 308 46, 733 PISheS J0..2.ce5002ie Soe eee ee Oe ee a | 4,000) 161,501 Miolitis ks 22.4262 sc/sS> ae ee EE rs Be ee Ros is Se nel Sei aaa el 30, 618 962, 655 DMSO CUS cated = oe c.eieya-n awe olen a ee ee eee 58,953 | 1,582, 637 Marine invertebrates... ....... 2:60 eS ee ee | 9465! 621,191 HMelminthology=.-\ = 52: :2a0Jcc00 cee ae ee eee ee eee 157 | 5, 894

<<<Page: 56>>>

> t Number of speciDepartment. mens | Total received in 1903-4. ; ee wears Biolog y—Continued. | | CoOMIpaAtAL ive ntO ATOM oe a see ele is cae cabin el ele sis kiwiete minitls orien Swececeesheemects 86 | 16, 031 Blamiisteyaase wen | ee PCE ARE Eat Vy Re Fc et ae. es | 43,800 608, 205 THOME TE 2) So oe ESS seto Senne BSUS SOR MOE REESE Se BEE ICE STEN CG tiie iene tits ete [re ee 749 Geology: Phoebe iG e nem Calle are nace ecia Ses ,c c/s Dakin soe aa wiae anes che sevioceeee ses py Wal 80, 276 ManeralOmyily enter eee pce sheesh the ek emcee Bonde eee seo taeene ne 1, 020 36, 898 UEVETLEDrave pal ECONTOO RY a. ete eae ia Siacten wie oe saan cscs antes seen se GS; Q00r ae eees = Mentebrateupal eOntolopny ase erceetas coca sa inns ine seceees sce egeeabecsincsauees 35 611, 733 TIE COGN Ge Chose ads Se eS Sts Re Siete eee ae ar eae Ss eae A BOL coe hese Motalieess ss <>. t 8. Bes GS heros Soe LS Se Sane CH OA Spee aCe hee aera 241,527 | 5, 898, 493
The number of entries made in the catalogue books of the various departments was 51,904. The number of accessions received annually since 1881 is as follows:
! Number of
Vian | prceeien accessions | (inclusive). | fees
TISERUY. aes eget as oak vee Sens Se tgs ge ke re a gg | 9890-11000 | 1,111 SOE enlace A, eee Re aE ae gt 7 a | 11001-12500 | 1,500 AOE wees ese LR meh ec Se get ee 12501-13900 | 1, 400 IBRD Se yen dle Sd oe RR SR Rae le 13901-15550 | 1, 650 ieee eer Tureen ee ee tek Sa ke | 15551-16208 | 658 TNESB 53.5 Shas aek cach Ge ee es eee ee no ee | 16209-17704 1,496 USAT = Se Goce SE SS sae ase oe ie ed | 47705-19350 1, 646 USS 5. Sake sat AN eI IS saa re Re eee Oe | 19351-20831 | 1, 481 FUSE) ose ect os a es ie Sol | 20832-22178 | 1, 347 Pennies eee RT Rena er 5 pet oe as De eee oe ee A Dl 90179-08940 1, 162 Cite yh a eae ee Behe BE RO ea ee Se 93341-24597 | 1, 187 BED Pie cidned eiek tlhe eS Saale ae Ean ne, are i ee ean nee Sacer at | 24528-95884 | 1,357 LE) saa eek hg a Ue se ao tc 25885-27150 1, 266 TDS oe esos So cee Ne Re ga 27151-28311 | 1,161 it ae a ea ak ee FA re ei cE 28312-29534 | 1, 228 le Eee ap eit etek LP 5 5 ee ee oo 29535-30833 1, 299 inc Renee Rene ott oe on as oP Moor pe hue oe oe 30834-32300 1, 467 eR ERE ME Se Mie ie ui ole Le oe eS eet 32301-33741 1,441 LUNE) rk Sue aS Sige a a ee a a a eae SE | 33742-35238 1, 497 eh Ra ee, teeing fede Oe ec ED IAA ee | «85239-36705 1, 4€7 Ts eee renee Ati ac yen Ge = Te i a oe Oe SE er > 36706-38175 1,47) 110 eee Ne ee Maes te ie ES SG rc oe I wet aepre=s0ned"| 1, 40, USER eh os hae VORB A ye | 39585-41227 | 1, 643 Eh Sy aE ye RS ts aN eae le Ne as ie A ee | 41228-42930 1, 708
The primary work of the Museum staff is the care and preservation of the collections. With the large accessions constantly received, this is also the most important and the most onerous of all the duties
NAT Mus 1904——3

<<<Page: 57>>>

devolving upon the employees. So diverse and so full of detail is this branch of administration that it would be quite impossible to discuss the subject adequately in this connection, but some idea of its extent and complexities may be obtained from the reports of the head curators.
The packages as received have to be unpacked and their contents assorted in accordance with the departments or divisions to which the specimens belong. A complete record of each accession is made and retained in the office of registration. In the various divisions to which they are then transferred the specimens are labeled, numbered, and catalogued serially, after which they are arranged in cases or in storage, their safety and convenience of reference being presumably secured by these several acts. Unless they come identified they may . be named at once, but the work of classification goes on slowly for the most part, and years sometimes elapse before a collection can be thoroughly identified and described, as noted under the head of ** Researches.”
Asa part of general museum work may be included the duties of the preparators in preparing, poisoning, and mounting specimens; in extracting fossils from their matrix, in cutting rock specimens to a convenient size, and making thin sections to show their structure; in modeling and arranging lay-figure groups, and in many other directions.
In the Department of Anthropology, where the objects average larger than in other departments, there has long been greater need for the use of outside storage, but during the year considerable inside storage has been gained by the building of racks and shelves back of exhibition cases. This has afforded some relief, and permitted the overhauling and improvement of the reserve collection. Through cooperation with the Bureau of American Ethnology, the work of photographing, singly or in groups, the tiembers of Indian delegations, which have lately been numerous, has been so increased as to greatly enlarge the fine portrait series of American natives started several years ago.
The Department of Anthropology has two preparators’ laboratories, one for the making of models of objects of various classes, mostly ethnologic, for filling out the Museum series of exhibits and for exchange purposes, the other concerned with the making of replicas of Museum specimens in plaster. During the year 45 models were completed in the former, while in the latter an exceptionally large amount of work was accomplished, the regular preparators being assisted by two other skilled workmen especially employed in connection with the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Molds of 120 of the most important archeological objects in the National Museum were made, and from these several sets of casts were obtained, one, properly colored, being installed with the Museum’s exhibit at

<<<Page: 58>>>

St. Louis, the others held for exchange. These replicas are executed with the utmost care, and one set has been photographed along with the originals for distribution to the museums with which exchanges are arranged. The same force of preparators also built models of a number of the ruined buildings of Mexico and Yucatan, five of these being completed and exhibited at St. Louis. In the same laboratory there were also made during the year twenty masks, besides other castings of Indians belonging to delegations which visited Washington during the season, and from these castings a number of busts have been prepared, both for the Museum and for exchange.
In the several divisions of the Department of Biology not only has the material obtained during the year received the attention required to insure its safety, but much has also been done toward improving the condition of older parts of the collections. The staff is, however, altogether too small to handle these large collections satisfactorily, and the limited storage and laboratory quarters prevent that arrangement of specimens which would make them readily accessible for reference or study. The latter difficulty is soon to: be overcome, and it is hoped that the former also may. In the division of mammals 6,760 skulls were cleaned, a necessary preliminary to the study of the specimens of this group. A large number of skins were made over, and some additional cases for the arrangement of the reserve series were provided. The entire collection of mammals is now in as good condition as the means will allow, but very much remains to be done. No special improvement is to be noted in the condition of the bird collection, as the space allotted to it has long been overcrowded. The identification, labeling, and cataloguing of specimens has continued. Ina general way the same may be said of the other biological divisions, but it should be recognized that in all the preservation of specimens. has been as carefully looked after as the circumstances permit, and practically everywhere their condition is good. The mollusks, to which much attention has been given, are mostly labeled and accessible. The collection of insects, one of the largest and most valuable in the world, was never so well preserved and arranged as it is at present, rapid progress having been made in the transfer of specimens to the new hermetically-closing drawers. Much of the work with this group is being performed by volunteers, members of the entomological section of the Department of Agriculture, whose assistance is to the advantage of both bureaus. The condition of the varied collections in the division of marine invertebrates was greatly improved, a large amount of cataloguing having been done, and many sets of duplicates put up for distribution. The helminthological collections, considered to be the finest in the country for study purposes, has been maintained in good condition.

<<<Page: 59>>>

In the division of plants much activity has prevailed. Eighty-six insect-proof cases were installed, increasing the entire number of this kind to 841, all of which have been found to answer their purpose perfectly. These additions and changes in furniture, which afford secure storage for a very large proportion of the collection, have necessitated an extended rearrangement of specimens, which is still in progress. The number of specimens mounted during the year was 29,700; of sheets stamped and recorded, 21,000.
The collections generally in the Department of Geology are reported to be in a fairly satisfactory condition, and not less than 100,000 specimens have been put away in final Museum shape, but large accessions have rendered it impossible to keep the numbering, complete labeling, and cataloguing of material up to date. The working out of fossil vertebrates from the rocks in which they are embedded has received continued attention, but the progress in this direction has been necessarily slow, and it is evident that the staff of preparators must be increased if prompt results are desired. The entire lithological study series has been overhauled and catalogued in card form, and upward of 300 thin rock sections have been made. Card catalogues of the entire mineralogical and of other geological collections are in course of preparation, and an annotated list of the types belonging to the Department of Geology, several thousand in number, is also under way.
The preparation of 500 duplicate sets of fossil invertebrates, in which not less than 60,000 specimens will be used for distribution to educational establishments in the United States, was nearing completion at the close of the year.
Tn the Department of Anthropology a few cases have been added in the northwest court gallery for an exhibit of Indian baskets, this subject having gained special prominence through the publication of Prof. O. T. Mason’s recent paper on ‘‘Aboriginal American Basketry.” ‘The series of lamps, illustrating the development of means of illumination, has also been extended. A beginning has been made toward illustrating the ethnology of the Philippines, in which has been utilized the collection recently obtained by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. Army, on the island of Mindanao, and the ethnology of Malaysia through the important contributions of Dr. W. L.. Abbott. The collection of musical instruments, now. one of the most important in the world, has been partly reinstalled. A typical series of muskets, rifles, and carbines, mostly deposited by the War Department, and three table cases of revolvers and pistols of various makes and dates, have been arranged in the east hall.
A new mahogany case has been provided for the original Francis life-saving car, an object of deep interest to all visitors, and in another suitable case has been installed the cylinder of the Hornblower engine,

<<<Page: 60>>>

the first steam engine set up on the Western Continent, having been imported from England in 1753 for pumping water from the copper mines of Col. John Schuyler, Belleville, New Jersey. A very useful addition to the time-keeping series consists of two clocks from the Chelsea Clock Company, of Boston, which have been connected with the service of the U. 8. Naval Observatory. Interesting historical relics deposited by the Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution have been added to the cases assigned to that society.
Several groups of ethnological lay figures returned from recent expositions have been installed wherever a place could be found for them, some haying been arranged in the lecture hall.
With a view to unifying the work of installation in the Department of Biology, this entire subject was placed in charge of Mr. F. A. Lucas, the curator of comparative anatomy. But little was done toward preparing new exhibits in this department, however, owing to the arrangements in progress for the St. Louis Exposition. Some of the more valuable birds were remounted, and four groups of game birds were installed in two new special cases at the entrance to the Smithsonian building. Additional casts of fishes for the series in the southeast range of the Museum building are being prepared, and a beginning has been made toward the installation of a series of specimens illustrating the mollusk fauna of the District of Columbia, one such case having already been completed. The installation of the systematic series of insects has been nearly finished.
A series of illustrations of corals and coral reefs from Saville Kent’s work on the Great Barrier Coral Reef of Australia has been framed and placed with the exhibition of corals in the west hall of the Smithsonian building. Many specimens in the different exhibition collections have been renewed, and there is a generally improved appearance in nearly all the exhibits of this Department.
To the display collection in the Department of Geology have been added skulls of Diplodocus, Trachodon, and of two genera of Ceratopsia, one being the type of Zr/ceratops calicornis and the other representing a new genus of the dinosaurs. The mounted skeleton of a specimen of Syornis casuarinus from New Zealand has also been installed.
A noteworthy addition to the exhibits in geology is a geological section on a scale of 2 miles to the inch across the United States from the coast of North Carolina to a point near San Francisco. This model has been the work of two years. The specimens in all other divisions of this department have been more or less overhauled during the year, especially in the lithological and mineralogical series, and improvements have been made in the exhibit of invertebrate fossils, but lack of room prevents any noteworthy additions to or expansion of these collections.

<<<Page: 61>>>

Of the material which reaches the Museum a part has previously been studied and a part not. The act founding the establishment provides that the collections shall be arranged and classified, and therefore in selecting the care-takers, persons skilled in the various branches represented are chosen. It is recognized that their first obligation is to look out for the safety of the specimens, and as the technical staff under pay is relatively small, attention to this duty consumes the greater part of their time. About one-half of this staff consists of volunteers employed in other bureaus of the Government on whom the same demands can not be made, though some of these are equally attentive to the routine work. The scientific results accomplished each year by the paid employees of the Museum is, nevertheless, relatively extensive, comprising mainly the identification, labeling, and descriptions of specimens, and their classified arrangement in vases and drawers so as to make them convenient for reference.
For a large part of the scientific work, however, assistance must be obtained from experts connected with other establishments throughout the United States and in Europe. Entire groups of specimens may be assigned to individuals for study, or advantage taken of researches in progress elsewhere to have material of greater or less extent identified, and visiting scientific men are often willing to spend some time upon such parts of the collections as come within their knowledge.
It is impossible within the limits of this report to account for all the work of this character carried on during the past year, but the number of persons concerned, not including those on the Museum staff, was in the neighborhood of 200, and over 20,000 specimens were sent away for study. This cooperation is far greatest in connection with the Department of Biology, whose varied collections have long attracted a widespread interest and have led to many extensive and important investigations.
In the Department of Anthropology considerable progress was made by the Head Curator and his assistants in studying the ethnological collections sent to the Museum during the past ten years by Dr. William L. Abbott from the southern part of Asia and its adjacent islands. Mr. William H. Holmes has continued his work of monographing the mines and quarries of the American aborigines. Dr. A. F. Hrdlicka conducted extensive researches in different branches of physical anthropology. Further investigations in the subjects of primitive heating, illumination, cooking devices, etc., have been carried on by Dr. Walter Hough. Mr. Paul Beckwith has begun the preparation of a descriptive catalogue of the Grant relics in the National Museum and a
vatalogue of ancient coins. The collection of swords has also been catalogued.

<<<Page: 62>>>

Mr. George C. Maynard has given much time toward unraveling the history of the old locomotive Stourbridge Lion, and has also been engaged on a history of firearms.
The collections of the Department of Anthropology have been examined by many persons, some of whom have made important studies for official and other purposes. Among these investigators may mentioned the Statistician of the United States Bureau of Immigration; Prof. C. 5. Sherrington, of University College, Liverpool, England; Miss Voorhees, of Indiana, who examined the prehistoric European collections; Miss Marie Ruef Hofer, of Teachers’ College, Columbia University, New York; Mr. John P. 8S. Neligh, Columbus, Georgia, who is interested in the study of Indian textile art; Mrs. J. Wells Champney, who is gathering information regarding the Abenaki tribe; Judge James Wickersham, of Kagle City, Alaska, who is investigating the industries and social customs of the Indians of that region; Mr. Ole Solberg, of Christiania, Norway, who is making studies in preparation for an investigation of the social customs of the Hopi Indians; Lieut. W. E. W. McKinlay, U. 8. Army, detailed by the Division of Military Information to obtain data to assist in compiling grammars and dictionaries of some of the Philippine languages; Mr. Stewart Culin, Curator of Ethnology in the Brooklyn Institute, to whom specimens were also lent for the purpose of reporting upon Indian games for the Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. H. M. Whelpley, of St. Louis, Missouri, who studied material for a paper on catlinite pipes, and Mr. E. A. Forward, of the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, who is interested in the history of the Stourbridge Lion already referred to. :
In connection with the Department of Biology research work was extensively carried on both by members of the Museum staff and by others. Dr. F. W. True, the Head Curator, completed his important monograph on the whalebone whales of the western North Atlantic, which will appear in Volume xxxin of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, and he also published four shorter papers on cetaceans. Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., assistant curator of mammals, has continued his studies on Dr. William L. Abbott’s large collection of mammals from the Malay Archipelago, having finished one paper on the subject during the year, descriptive of 70 new species, including 1 new genus and 6 new species of monkeys, 2 new species of mouse deer, and 6 new species of flying lemurs. He also prepared several smaller papers and continued work on a new classification of the bats. Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., aid in mammals, completed a revision of the hares and their allies, based upon a detailed study of their anatomical and other characters.
Among those who had access to the mammal collections or to whom specimens were sent for examination were Dr. J. A. Allen, of the

<<<Page: 63>>>

American Museum of Natural History; Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences; Dr. D. G. Elliot, of the Field Columbian Museum; Mr. Outram Bangs, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology; Prof. Burt G. Wilder, of Cornell University, and the*members of the Biological Survey of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of birds, continued with little interruption the preparation of his comprehensive monograph on the Birds of North and Middle America, completing the manuscript for Volume m1, and a large part of that for Volume tv, beside two small papers on new genera and species of birds. In making the measurements of specimens for his monograph he was assisted by Mr. J. H. Riley, aid, who also published three notes on birds from the Bahama Islands. Dr. Charles W. Richmond, assistant curator of birds, finished the identification of the majority of the birds collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott on the islanas off the western coast of Sumatra, prepared a list of the species obtained by Doctor Abbott and Mr. C. B. Kloss on Anambas and Tambelans islands, China Sea, and at Tringana, Malay Archipelago, and was the author of several notes on zoological nomenclature.
The collection of birds was consulted by Dr. R. M. Strong and Prof. C. O. Whitman, of the University of Chicago; Mr. Elliot Blackwelder, of Chicago; Mr. Jonathan Dwight, jr., of New York; Mr. Outram Bangs; Mr. Frank Chapman, of the American Museum of Natural History; the Biological Survey, and the Committee on Nomenclature of the American Ornithologists’ Union.
Studies on the reptile fauna of eastern Asia were carried on by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, curator of reptiles, who also worked up the collection of reptiles brought from Japan by Dr. Hugh M. Smith, Deputy Commissioner of Fisheries, and from the Bahamas by Mr. J. H. Riley, as a member of the expedition of the Baltimore Geographical Society. Doctor Stejneger likewise prepared a general account of the herpetology of the Bahama Islands and several small papers, and, in conjunction with Mr. Vernon Bailey, identified the Museum collection of reptiles from Texas. His report on the proceedings of the Fifth International Zoological Congress at Berlin, during August, 1901, at which he represented the National Museum, was received during the year. Facilities were afforded Prof. W. P. Hay, of Howard University, for studying the diamond back-terrapin for the Bureau of Fisheries.
Mr. Barton A. Bean, assistant curator of fishes, reported on the fishes collected on the expedition of the Baltimore Geographical Society to the Bahama Islands, comprising 165 species, identified the specimens obtained by the Senff Expedition to the Nile in 1899, and prepared notes on material from North Carolina and the Barbados. The collections in this division were also consulted by Dr. Theodore Gill,

<<<Page: 64>>>

an associate of the Museum; Dr. David 8. Jordan and Dr. C. H. Gilbert, of Leland Stanford Junior University; Dr. C. H. Kigenmann, of Indiana University, and the scientific staff of the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries.
Among the results accomplished by Dr. William H. Dall, honorary curator of mollusks, may be noted reviews of the nomenclature of the Pupacea, and of the history and classification of the Tritons and Trogshells, a summary of the recent and fossil land shells of the Bahama Islands, and a number of other papers, some prepared in conjunction with Mr. Paul Bartsch, aid in mollusks. He also began upon a general review of the land and fresh-water mollusks of Alaska and adjacent regions. Mr. Bartsch continued work on the family Pyramidellidee, and published descriptions of new species of Scissurella and Sonorella, a note on Limax, andan account of the herons living in the District of Columbia. The Pacific coast Pectinide were studied by Mr. Ralph Arnold, of the United States Geological Survey, and the recent and fossil Pleurotomide by Col. Thomas L. Casey, U. S. Army. The collection of Achatinellas was sent to Prof. Alpheus Hyatt, of the Boston Society of Natural History, and after his death was turned over to Dr. A. G. Mayer, of the Brooklyn Institute, who is to complete his investigation of this group.
The staff of the division of insects, including its honorary members, has to its credit a total of 114 papers published during the year, but not nearly all of these related to Museum material or were issued by the Museum. The authors were Dr. L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Dr. W. H. Ashmead, assistant curator; Dr. H. G. Dyar, Mr. D. W. Coquillett, and Mr. Nathan Banks, custodians, Mr. R. P. Currie, aid, and Mr. A. N. Caudell. Doctor Ashmead continued his work on the classification of the Hymenoptera and has published his generic revision of the entire order except the ants, or superfamily Formicoidea, which will probably soon be completed. He has also worked up all the Japanese and Philippine Hymenoptera now in the Museum, and papers on this subject will shortly appear in the Proceedings of the Museum. His most important paper of the year was a classification of the Chalcid flies. Among the thirty-one papers prepared by Doctor Dyar, the most noteworthy was one of 160 pages on the Lepidoptera of the Kootenai district of British Columbia. Mr. Coquillett’s researches related mainly to the diptera, and those of Mr. Banks to the spiders.
Studies were made as follows by visitors to the Museum: On the Lepidoptera, by Prof. J. B. Smith, of Rutger’s College, Dr. J. W. Holland, of the Carnegie Museum, Mr. W. D. Kearfott, of New York, and Mr. William Schaus, of London; on the Arachnide by Mr. J. H. Emerton, of Boston, and Prof. R. V. Chamberlain, of Cornell University; on the Coleoptera by Mr. C. Schaeffer, of Brooklyn, Dr. Henry Skinner, of Philadelphia, and others. Several physicians have

<<<Page: 65>>>

examined the collection of mosquito larve, and the Carnegie Institution has had the use of the specimens of /%//stes, a genus of social or paper-making wasps. The number of loans of specimens was large, the principal being of Coleoptera to Dr. F. E. Blaisdell, San Francisco, California; of Orthoptera to Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences; of Rhynchota to Prof. P. R. Uhler, of Baltimore; and of Diptera to Prof. James 5S. Hine, of the Ohio State University.
Dr. James E. Benedict, assistant curator of marine invertebrates, continued his studies on the anomouran crustaceans, two papers, ¢ revision of the genus Lepidopa, and descriptions of new albuneids, being published during the year. Miss M. J. Rathbun, assistant curator, completed the monograph of the fresh-water crabs (Potamonide) on which she has been engaged for some time, and which is being printed in the Archives of the Paris Museum of Natural History. She also continued work on the crabs of Hawaii, preparing a paper on this subject for the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, and one on the decapod crustaceans of the northwest coast of North America for the Harriman Alaska expedition. Dr. Harriet Richardson, collaborator in marine invertebrates, also finished a report, published in the same series, on the isopod crustaceans of the northwest coast, besides an account of the isopods obtained on the Alaskan expedition of the Bureau of Fisheries in 1908. She has since begun upon a manual of the North American Isopoda. Mr. T. Wayland Vaughan, custodian of madreporarian corals, has made notable progress in the study of that group as represented in the Museum, having paid special attention to the collections from the Hawaiian Islands. Dr. C. W. Stiles, custodian of the helminthological coJlections, completed his investigation of the hookworm disease in the Southern States, and began upon a study of **spotted fever” in Montana.
A number of specialists connected with other institutions are engaged in working up several groups of marine invertebrates as follows: Prof. Charles L. Edwards, of Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut, the pedate holothurians; Prof. Hubert Lyman Clark, of Olivet College, Michigan, the apodal holothurians; Prof. C. C. Nutting, of the University of Iowa, the hydroids, of which reports on the Plumularidx and Sertularide have been published; Dr. Charles B. Wilson, of the State Normal School, Westfield, Massachusetts, the parasitic copepods; Dr. K. W. Genthe, of Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut, the free swimming copepods; Dr. R. W. Sharpe, of Wilmette, Illinois, the Ostracoda; Dr. W. T. Calman, of the British Museum of Natural History, the cumacea; Dr. H. Coutiére, Ecole Supérieure de Pharmacie, Paris, the Alpheide. Besides material supplied to the above, specimens from the collections made during the investigations of 1903 by the Bureau of Fisheries into the Alaskan salmon fishery and elsewhere have been sent out as follows: The parasitic copepods

<<<Page: 66>>>

to Dr. Charles B. Wilson; the Pycnogonide to Dr. Leon J. Cole, of Cambridge, Massachusetts; the Schizopoda to Dr. A. E. Ortmann, of the Carnegie Museum; the Amphipoda to Dr. J. S. Holmes, of the University of Michigan; and‘the Cirripedia to Prof. H. A. Pilsbury, of the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences. A iarge number of Bering Sea and arctic starfishes have been supplied to Prof. A. E. Verrill, of Yale University, for examination in connection with a report on the starfishes of the Harriman Alaska Expedition; several lots of actinians to Dr. J. E. Duerden, of the University of Michigan, who is preparing a report on the Hawaiian species for the Bureau of Fisheries; and specimens of echini and isopods to Dr. T. H. Mortensen and Dr. H. J. Nansen, respectively, of the Zoological Museum of Copenhagen, Denmark.
Mr. F. V. Coville, curator of the division of eS has published several papers which are cited in Appendix III. Dr. J. N. Rose, assistant curator, has continued his studies on eee and Central American plants. He has also, in conjunction with Dr. N. L. Britton, director of the New York Botanical Garden, conducted investigations relative to the North American Crassulacev and has begun to work up the cacti of North America, a research which is expected to occupy four or five years. A preliminary paper on the Crassulaceze and one by Doctor Rose on a new species of Begonia have appeared during the year. Mr. W. R. Maxon, aid, has given special attention to the specimens of ferns received from the Philippine Islands, and Mr. E.S Steele, to the genus Laciniaria. Dr. E. L. Greene, appointed associate in botany near the close of the year, has engaged in various lines of systematic work. The Carices have been the subject of study by Mr. Theodor Holm, of Brookland, District of Columbia, and the specimens of the genus Plantago by Prof. E. lL. Morris, of the Washington High School. The collections have been frequently consulted by several members of the botanical staff of the Department of Agriculture. :
There were 43 loans of plants, aggregating 2,873 specimens, the principal ones being as follows: A large collection from the Philippine Islands to Dr. Janet Perkins, Berlin Botanical Gardens; a collection of Mexican plants to Dr. B. L. Robinson, of the Gray Herbarium, Harvard University; specimens of pines to Mr. George R. Shaw, of the Arnold Arboretum’ Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts; and specimens of orchids to Mr. Oakes Ames, of the Ames Botanical Laboratory, North Easton, Massachusetts.
The ead Curator of Geology, Doctor Merrill, has supervised the work of an economic survey relating to the building and ornamental stones of North Carolina, and as an expert special agent of the last census has completed a report on stone quarries. A collection of rocks brought from the Nugsuaks Peninsula, Greenland, and the occurrence

<<<Page: 67>>>

of unakite near Milams Gap, Virginia, have been described by Mr. William C. Phalen, while many. rare minerals and a meteorite from Persimmon Creek, North Carolina, have been the subject of study by Mr. Wirt Tassin. Researches on the Rochester shale bryozoa have been continued by Mr. R. S$. Bassler, and two papers on Paleozoic bryozoa have been completed by Mr. KE. O. Ulrich in conjunction with Mr. Bassler. An account of all the Middle Devonian crinoids in the Museum collections has been prepared by Miss Elvira Wood, of the U.S. Geological Survey.
Material from the collection of vertebrate paleontology has been utilized by Prof. H. F. Osborn, of the American Museum of Natural History, in his work on the Titanotherium; by Mr. J. B. Hatcher, of the Carnegie Museum, in his study of Triceratops, and by Mr. F. A. Lueas, of the National Museum, in connection with his researches on Stegosaurus. Besides the investigations carried on by the paleobotanists of the U. S. Geological Survey, some studies have been made on the fossil plants by Dr. Arthur Hollick, of the New York Botanical Garden; the Rey. H. Herzer, of Marietta, Ohio; and Mr. E. . W. Berry, of Passaic, New Jersey. Dr. Thomas L. Watkins, of Denison University, Ohio, has made use of the collections in applied geology.
Specimens in various branches of geology and paleontology have been sent to the following persons to assist them in their investigations: Doctor Handlirsch, of the K. K. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum, Vienna; Mr. John M. Clarke, of the New York State Museum; Prof. W. B. Clark, of Johns Hopkins University; Prof. C. H. Hitchcock, of Dartmouth College; Prof. Edwin G. Kirk, of Columbia University; Dr. George F. Kunz, of New York City; Mr. P. E. Raymond, of New Haven, Connecticut; Mr. Thomas L. Watson, of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute; Mr. S. F. Emmons, of the U. S. Geological Survey, and Mr. Frank Springer and Dr. H. N. Stokes, of the U. S. Bureau of Standards.
But few explorations were carried on last year by members of the Museum staff. Dr. Walter Hough spent some time in Arizona and New Mexico, where he made a large collection of ethnological and archeological objects. Botanical field work was carried on in Mexico by Dr. J. N. Rose, and in Jamaica by Mr. W. R. Maxon. The expedition sent to the Bahamas during the summer of 1903 by the Baltimore Geographical Society and Johns Hopkins University, under the direction of Dr. G. B. Shattuck, was accompanied by Mr. Barton A. Bean and Mr. J. H. Riley, who took an active part in the work of collecting and obseryation. Dr. Harrison G. Dyar and Mr. Rolla P.

<<<Page: 68>>>

Currie were members of a party sent to British Columbia by the Carnegie Museum, of Pittsburg, and returned with large collections of insects. During a trip to Europe Mr. Charles Schuchert secured some valuable fossils, and, while seeking material for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, Dr. George P. Merrill obtained for the Museum many geological specimens on the Pacific coast and in Canada and western Mexico.
Having been designated by the State Department and the Smithsonian Institution as delegates to the International Congress of Zoology to be held at Berne, Switzerland, during the summer of 1904, Dr. Leonhard Stejneger and Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., left Washington in May, with the object also of making collections of mammals and reptiles in Europe, and of identifying unclassified material by comparison with specimens in certain European museums. A number of short collecting trips were also made by other members of the staff.
There have been many explorations by private individuals and by other Government bureaus through which the Museum has profited. A few of these may be noted. Dr. William L. Abbott has continued his field work in Sumatra, the Mentawei Archipelago, and along the coast and on the islands east of Sumatra, and, as usual, has contributed his specimens to the National Museum. In connection with the investigations of the Bureau of Fisheries, Dr. Hugh M. Smith has visited Japan, and Dr. B. W. Evermann, Prof. Charles H. Gilbert, and Prof. O. P. Jenkins have made extensive explorations in Hawaii. The natural history bureaus of the Department of Agriculture, and especially the Biological Survey, have made important collections in different parts of the United States. Field work under the Bureau of American Ethnology, productive of collections, has been carried on by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes in the West Indies, and by Mr. James Mooney, Mr. Gerard Fowke, Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, and Mr. J. R. Swanton in the West. Reference should also be made to the important work conducted in the Philippine Islands by Dr. KE. A. Mearns, U.S. Army, one of the most frequent contributors to the Museum collections. :
Collecting outfits were supplied to the following persons outside of the Museum staff: Mr. Vinal N. Edwards, Woods Hole, Massachusetts; Mr. L. H. Aymé, New York City; Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. Frank Baker, National Zoological Park; Mr. O. M. Meyncke, Belfield, Virginia; Dr. S. P. Bartlett, Quincy, Illinois; Mr. R. S. Johnson, Bellevue, lowa; Mr. Andrew Allison, Iuka, Mississippi; Mr. E. R. Hodson, Jasper, Texas; Mr. H. D. Burrall, Beaumont, Texas; Mr. Ward Nedwah, Lejolla, California; Dr. J. C. Thompson, U. 5S. Navy, Bremerton, Washington; Mr. Richard

<<<Page: 69>>>

Willis, Olga, Washington; Mr. Alfred G. Maddren, Seattle, Washington; Dr. E. A. Mearns, Mindanao, Philippine Islands; Dr. J. R. Harris, U.S. Army, Philippine Islands; Mr. Ehot Blackwelder, Tientsin, China; Mr. William Brockway, Piedras Negras, Coahuila, Mexico; Mr. E. A. Goldman, Tehuantepec City, Mexico, and the Rev. Samuel P. Verner, Upper Congo Regions, Africa.
In the distribution of duplicate material to educational establishments throughout the country a total of 20,010 specimens was used. These contributions, chiefly to schools and colleges, were comprised in 148 separate lots or sets of objects accurately labeled and adapted for teaching purposes. They consisted of 55 sets of marine invertebrates, 35 of fishes, 10 of geological material illustrating rock weathering and soil formation, + of casts of prehistoric stone implements, and 44 of a special and miscellaneous character.
In making exchanges, for which an equivalent is obtained for incorporation in the national collections, 216 lots, aggregating 9,005 specimens, were disposed of. The number of specimens lent to specialists for study amounted to 20,535, comprised in 115 separate sendings.
Among the more important exchanges received from establishments abroad were the following: From the British Museum of Natural History, London, England, a number of alcoholic bats; from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England, a large collection of plants from various localities; from the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France, specimens of wasps of the family Vespidee; from the Royal Botanical Museum, Berlin, Germany, 716 plants; from the Royal Zoological and Anthropological-Ethnographical Museum, Dresden, Germany, 3 skins of Sturnide; from the Zoological Museum, University of Copenhagen, Denmark, about 100 species of European mesozoic and tertiary bryozoans, and specimens of living echinoderms; from the First Zoological Institute of the Imperial University, Vienna, Austria, fishes and reptiles collected in North Africa, Asia Minor, and other localities; from the K. K. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum, Vienna, a collection of mesozoic and tertiary bryozoans and ostracods from eighteen European localities; from the Kongelige Frederiks Universitet, Christiania, Norway, specimens of reptiles and batrachians from Madagascar, South Africa, Australia, and Formosa; from the Museum of the Imperial University, Moscow, Russia, 5 casts of J/astodon borson’; from the Royal Botanic Garden, Sibpur, Calcutta, India, 148 plants from India; from Albany Museum, Grahamstown, South Africa, 2 elands; from Hope Gardens, near Kingston, Jamaica, specimens of ferns (Asplenium). i

<<<Page: 70>>>

The material obtained in exchange from individuals abroad was as follows: From L. Chevallier, Precigné, Sarthe, France, 342 Algerian plants; from Dr. Aristides Brezina, Vienna, Austria, a fragment of the Trenzano meteorite, weighing 164 grams; from Mr. Julius Bohm, Vienna, Austria, a piece of meteoric stony iron from Finnmarken, weighing 595 grams; from Mr. Cecil Seymour Browne, Anacapri, Italy, a collection of Lepidoptera; from Mr. A. Berger, La Mortola, Ventimiglia, Italy, 31 plants; from Rev. R. P. Longin Navas, 8. J., Colegio del Salvador, Zaragoza, Spain, a collection of Neuropteroid insects from Spain; from Maj. Charles G. Nurse, Nineteenth Bombay Infantry, Quetta, Baluchistan, India, 130 species of Hymenoptera; from Prof. N. S, Jambunathan, Native College, Madura, India, 52 specimens of spiders from India.
The Museum building was visited during the year by 220,778 persons, and the Smithsonian building by 143,988 persons, a daily average of 705 for the former and 460 for the latter. The decrease as compared with the previous year is accounted for by the meeting of the Grand Army of the Republic in October, 1902, during which month alone the attendance amounted to 131,448.
The following tables show, respectively, the attendance during each month of the past year, and for each year beginning with 1881, when the Museum building was first opened to the public.
Number of visitors during the fiscal year 1903-04.
= — : — =—
Year and month. ee ee 1903 ADU Kieo: 5 Sede ae SARE Se et RO Sas NOE SPIRE ee ela ee a ae EE 19, 160 | 11, 359 PAMIONIS ete eps ee ee eee ae ae ge pays vs CRUE AC A a ee ae irk 25, 792 17,181 Septempberca a2 -e es elie ee ae ae et ee Lee Ot Ao WE AN RAID. aL ae 2 PA 24, 408 | 14, 635 (CONG NEPA glk ou See aoa! See Sa ea ee Se ee eo 17, 453 } 12,7709 ISON ONE, Me he a cis eee oP cap Sa en ee ae gn 13, 783 11, 252 DROVE Cae Sse ae Se SoBe ee ARE peat Aer a ce 14, 634 11, 675 1904. URL ET ype nee oS ME TD ie Sess eye ar! oe eS So a eee Os 12, 621 9, 674 TNE OPH ORAS Soe Rese Tee RTS SE oo Oe os Se re, 15, 202 8, 964 VET Cheer a mene Spey treat et atin ae wes yee Sn Em awe cota diocjiecna aoe tee 20, 375 10, 922 JADA Sg = oes ane ih ie SRI sha Spa RSS as 27, 838 16, 451 Minny Seen ree Penner. eet aang oe ee Sere) ye ee 16, 376 | 10, 497 AUNTS Ne a ee ee ee cre er ea ne es StS a ae aS RO 13, 136 | 8, 669 HOATIO ES 2 ee ee ey oh ca at a eae See ee ee 220, 778 143, 988 Approximate daily average........ noises BAS Se SR Se ei nyt Bs 2 eee eho 705 | 460 |

<<<Page: 71>>>

Number of visitors to the Museum and Smithsonian buildings since the opening of the former in 1881,
Museum | Smithsonian
A Year building. building. ABST Soe ese ts Satie ee Binh CAE Ay Ae EE EO AREA Ur reo OS 150, 000 100, 000 TSB2 nts: SSS ee Me otk See as eed oe ee er 167, 455 152, 744 HSE BY aie Oe Bere cis woe M ices Bae ara cr ee a crus nea Nee re a 202, 188 104, 823 1884 (half year)! ces. cack Pedtceeaee a ceee seca s sat oe Cece cee emeetne se eee 97, 661 45, 565 TSS42 8b ics h 8. ase We we aE See eee eee EC Neal eens SORES ey, ene 205, 026 105, 993 ASSH=BB ei Sar nce a ett EEE Se re ES ee ne en re 174, 225 §8, 960 ASSEB Tico sce aS hte ee Be ee ae LN ae the eee aes ae | 216,562 | 98, 552 ASS TERB ea. CM se aac erty eee eras SI wie x Sa ae So BS 249, 665 | 102, 863 BBS BOC eR acters Se ie) Fe REN ee ae ey ie ce em ne aca | 374, 843 | 149, 618 1889-0012 2m! we sabes Oi nee eRe one ay, eee at Ae eee ee | 274,824 | 120, 894 TI SOQ=O1 PI Aen soe ce cee nce ee ad RE Re Re ieee RO an oe eee 286, 426 111, 669 SOTO: Be sora, Re 7 ee eared Be ea Sra a ore | 269, 825 | 114, 817 I SODE GS cr cie ceAraceln, ob secrets me, Serco Re Re Sem ee tate a a 319,930 | -__ 174, 188 IRS SB IEOY ape NO en Mims ok ORE Oe A ay PL ae BE oe Poe CS gou cokes 195, 748 | 103, 910 AQ OLEH Re Meet ete os SERS lyn cee ha tee gece Sr setae ee oO eee 201, 744 | 105, 658 ISOB206 cea UML ty. ore. 2 2t e eie 3 4 65 0c ee ke eager eC 180, 505 103, 650 AQOGZ 07 Cite. Step OEE Dey ie tae pelea 2 ioe Us Oe ne oe ee 229, 606 115, 709 L807 298 a5 Reet cee cee eR See eel Se EEL Oe ae eee 177, 254 99, 273 BOG 20 Dele ar ts ee ee SE a cH ees Ee eae 192, 471 116, 912 FSGS OOO = See in ite se ace a mss Oe eps Cha ree eT ne Shoo | 225, 440 133, 147 TSO0 NOU Taser sean ee Mae Ae isecs ie saueatsd Nar emceetereeesnas aieee 216, 556 | 151, 563 TTT ean hc Mn ee Pea aR ed Oe ee SRR Soe Bers Rs Soe oe SOE 173, 888 | 144, 107 1902203 eee EEE et ee AA PotD BB” OP RERA 5 SNE ie a A 315, 307 181,174 TOO S204 oa beh ne ee eon Se cad OS ere ae tere ee eee 220, 778 143, 988
otal waite AOA gh He > PS NUE 5 ea See OSes A A 5,817,427 | 2, 869,777
a Years of Presidential inaugurations. MEETINGS AND LECTURES,
During the first half of the year the lecture hall was utilized for the preparation and packing of a part of the exhibits for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. After January 1, 1904, however, it was frequently used for its legitimate purposes.
A series of Saturday afternoon lectures, under the auspices of the Biological Society of Washington, was given as follows:
February 20, Exploration of the Deep Sea, by Mr. Charles H. Townsend; February 27, The Living Forest, by Mr. Gifford Pinchot; March 5, A Naturalist?’s Winter in Mexico, by Mr. E. W. Nelson; March 12, The Evolution of the Horse, by Prof. Henry F. Osborn; March 19, The Coast Region of Alaska, by Dr. C. Hart Merriam.
The attendance at these lectures varied from 898 to 1,213 persons— far more than the seating capacity of the hall.
The closing exercises of the U. S. Naval Medical School were held here on March 21, and those of the U. 8. Army Medical School on April 5.

<<<Page: 72>>>

The American Oriental Society occupied the hall for its annual meeting on April 7 and 8, and the National Academy of Sciences from April 19 to 21, the latter also being given the use of the rooms of the Assistant Secretary for its business sessions.
A lecture entitled ‘* Botanical tramps with a camera,” illustrated by stereopticon views, was delivered on June 13, by Dr. C. E. Waters, of Johns Hopkins University, under the auspices of the Wild Flower Preservation Society of America.
The Museum, ever since its establishment, has been looked upon by the general public as the most convenient agency for obtaining information on all subjects within its scope, and scientific men and scientific institutions throughout the country turn to it foraid and advice. All requests of this character, made in evident good faith, have prompt attention, but the work involved, steadily increasing year by year, has become especially heavy and exacting, and consumes much of the time of both the scientific and the clerical staffs. The requests average several daily, are rarely confined to a single subject, and often relate to collections of greater or less size which are sent for identification. They also have reference, in many instances, to the building up and maintenance of collections, the construction of cases, the installation, labeling, and cataloguing of specimens, and other topics connected with museum administration. The replies made to such inquiries during the past vear fill about 6,000 pages in the letter-press books, this being entirely apart from the ordinary official correspondence of the Museum, which alone is very extensive.
The correspondence office also has charge of the distribution of publications, the number of which sent out during the year amounted to about 18,000 volumes and 39,000 separate papers.
A greater number of publications than usual was issued during the year, owing partly to delays in completing volumes belonging to the previous year. They comprised the annual reports of the Museum for 1901 and 1902; volumes 25, 26, and 27 of the Proceedings; and Part m of Special Bulletin No. 4, entitled ** American Hydroids,” being a monograph of the family Sertularide by Prof. Charles C. Nutting, of the University of Iowa. The last named is a quarto volume of 325 pages and 41 plates, the result of a painstaking and important investigation of collections belonging to this Museum.
The annual report for 1901 was received from the Printing Office on October 6, 1903; that for 1902 on March 12, 1904, The former
NAT Mus 1904———4

<<<Page: 73>>>

contains, besides the administrative report, the following five papers, constituting the general appendix to the volume: ‘‘ An account of the exhibit of the National Museum at the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo in 1901,” by F. W. True, William H. Holmes, and George P. Merrill; ‘‘ Flint Implements and Fossil Remains from a Sulphur Spring at Afton, Indian Territory,” by Mr. William H. Holmes; ‘Classification and Arrangement of the Exhibits of an Anthropological Museum,” by Mr. William H. Holmes; ‘‘Archeological Field Work in Northeastern Arizona,” by Dr. Walter Hough; ‘‘ Narrative of a Visit to Indian Tribes of the Purus River, Brazil,” by Prof. J. B. Steere. The appendix to the report for 1902 consists of a paper on ‘Aboriginal American Basketry,” by Prof. O. T. Mason; one on the **Herpetology of Porto Rico,” by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger; and one on ‘*‘ Wokas, a Primitive Food of the Klamath Indians,” by Mr. F. V. Coville.
Of the volumes of Proceedings, No. 25 was issued on July 24, 1908; No. 26 on August 27, 1903; and No. 27 on June 30, 1904. The total number of papers comprised in the three volumes is 107, numbered consecutively from 1275 to 1381, inclusive. They are descriptive, either wholly or in part, of collections belonging to the Museum. The subjects treated of and the number of papers relating to each are as follows: Mammals, 5; birds, 10; reptiles, 2; fishes, 39; insects, 19; marine invertebrates, including mollusks, 21; plants, 4; fossils, 2; meteorites, 2; miscellaneous, 3. The authors are partly members of the Museum staff and partly collaborators connected with other establishments.
The Proceedings papers are first issued separately, in a limited edition, as soon as each can be printed, in order to insure their early distribution. The papers in the annual reports are also published in separate form, but not until the volume is completed. Except for this practice, which has long been followed, it would be impossible to supply the requests of specialists, the completed volumes being mostly distributed to libraries and educational institutions.
In Appendix III will be found the titles of all publications for the year by members of the staff and collaborators of the Museum. The number of papers cited is 315 and the number of authors 89. The papers are grouped by subjects in the following table:

<<<Page: 74>>>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. ; alt
Papers | Papers | . Subject. ate. | potben| Total. q ; | officers. | gators. ; JMO MEO OEY 2 soossac sdapanas s5a0o Sango s200 cas odSSrasaSso5 cos Se cbosepaeooss 8 1 | 9 PA an ins tree) OWetara seats Pasi Shae Helens ee ease eee see teainacste sees | LOW Ss 10 F TRUNNION. bocce SS aoe aun gens COs c= « HAO R ORO BU SOROS BD ASeS SSE OCOD See Reee 2) |sancacb acd 2 TESTO LU peer rae ee ers cree ee Nese ae So as cSesag ies tks Sones ae Gall eonecee | 5 PACU EN ce cet Shek OL eh Se ee, Seaaataerne 1 1 PES OCR Seater teres Pee erate to ela oeeta a Se teiat areata elaine cee aie Sees eceejevewitnce sess 13 16 | 29 ENC) Les Dine eres ar ares oe cleats asses Sskae aloes © cia bisw avec ecleanisl LOM Seeews ser 10 SPM OLOS pete eer ee a eeeot mae ee ieia ance cas soe abecetecemcncmee se 4 | 4 8 DDS CIORAITO ST wee Sie Rec qucen n= soacooe SER asH BCA CE cee CBE SE Se HE Beee eEeeee 2ylee peace 2 ISHS efase% scrasicectae aise EOC OC NEES aCE COLI ORE OAR TA ORO SOROS TAA EEO Pia? 14 15 29 INOS RH se « Sasued sue oko oS ane BaCe c BSD DR BEE D CD SAA Seb eee Roe SOUS case e ee aa aae 10 6 16 Geolosygosa ee rere cee eae saeee reise once cect esse ccectcc ce ceccecees cesses 4 2 6 UDERGTS 2 scaesecan esos ebeers cg hee epee ieee an eee a 100 21 | 121 WIEN DIGS See oe qe c ane aeseoeo Gone See Oe Sea eee ee See ea es are ree | 21 1 22 IMPMITL OHM VerLe DLALes eae sas aaen-y Pon Ae esac ee cess ewe see oe clootasevens iA 7 14 MOTIVE A eco cepectiée toute SRE OSES GAN RGOH BAe a SRE SHS An este imei igh ee Se 1 INAOPUT ISIE: SSA 55 See aa 56 CORIO Sig EER CHIAE Shea risers ar Sere ea ae eer 1Galisezaeades se 16 JEDIR ONE E a Se ceiadab ate enc no Toa aes eR OSA S SADC RDA HOAASr Ree ie eae amen Gece acts 1 bysicalraminnoOpolon ys soem so seis= aslose es iar Sais e soos sei e asec ois ciycee me ats OMieseseeee es 3 Re TMulestama apa Gra COTA Sepa ean seeiecrs ce cee ac accee oc egeaccaeen ences Dultameneecsss 5 Mechnolopyeessesa ss esos sees ceo Soeeticme nee cnea Seeeetace ate Aime ses 8485 iy eth z8 Pg 1 IMUSCE WAN COUSm swe cre cases ates ates ase ae, o/s2 Senses e see cee encase ne Co esas d TNO Asses chaos noe Sa Aa ees SCC Eanes SaaS Sane eee 241 74 315 Twelve papers on Museum specimens by assistants of the Museum were, by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, printed in other publications than those of the Institution, as follows: Casanowicz, I. M.
Oriental and Classical Archeology in the U. 8. National Museum: Description of the contents, installation, and arrangement of the Division oi Historic Archeology and Religions. Records of the Past. Dec. 12, 1903.
Miuier, Gerrit &., Jr.
A New Nataline Bat from the Bahamas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Sept. 30, 1903.
_A New Squirrel from Lower Siam. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Noy. 12, 1903.
A New Hare from Greece. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Nov. 12, 1903,
: A Second Specimen of Euderma maculatum. Proc. Biol. Soe. Wash., Noy. 30,
1903. Descriptions of Two New Mole Rats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Noy. 30, 1903. Ripeway, Roperr. Descriptions of New Genera, Species, and Subspecies of American Birds. Proce. Biol. Soc. Wash., Sept. 30, 1903. Diagnosis of Nine New Forms of American Birds. Proce. Biol. Soc. Wash., Noy. 30, 1903. RiGEY, Jeb: A New Form of Nighthawk from the Bahama Islands. The Auk, October, 1903. Ross, J. N. A New Begonia from Mexico. Rep. Mo, Bot, Garden, Jan. 28, 1904.

<<<Page: 75>>>

STEJNEGER, LEONHARD. A New Hognose Snake from Florida. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash. Sept. 12, 1903. A New Lizard from the Rio Grande Valley, Texas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Dec. 28, 1903.
The Editorial Office also has charge of other printing than that of the publications, including labels, blanks, stationery, cards, etc., and likewise of the binding of books, which together constitute a very considerable item.
The National Museum library has received as a gift from Prof. Otis Tufton Mason, Head Curator of Anthropology, about 2,000 pamphlets, separates and bound volumes, mostly on anthropological subjects, for which a special bookplate has been provided. This is the second generous contribution of the same character from Professor Mason. Dr. Edward L. Greene, recently appointed associate in botany, has deposited his entire botanical library, in connection with his botanical collection, for a period of ten years, the only condition stipulated being that while the books shall be accessible on the same terms as other books in the Museum library they are not to be lent outside the District of Columbia without the consent of Doctor Greene.
The Museum library now contains 20,548 bound volumes and 35,960 unbound papers. The additions during the year consisted of 1,504 books, 3,187 pamphlets, and 700 parts of volumes. There were catalogued 938 books, 2,130 pamphlets, and 11,520 parts of periodicals. The number of cards added to the author’s catalogue was 4,090, exclusive of 2,855 cards for books and pamphlets recatalogued. Seventy broken sets of periodicals have been completed or partly so. The number of books, pamphlets, and periodicals borrowed from the general library was 26,456, including 5,679 assigned to the sectional libraries.
There has been no change in the sectional libraries, which are as follows:
Administration. | Fishes. | Oriental archeology. Administrative assistant. Geology. | Paleobotany. Anthropology. | History. | Parasites.
Biology. | Insects. Photography.
Birds. Mammals. Prehistoric anthropology. Botany. _ Marine invertebrates. Reptiles.
Children’s room. Materia medica. Stratigraphic paleontology. Comparative anatomy. | Mesozoic fossils. | Superintendent.
Editor. | Mineralogy. | Taxidermy.
Ethnology. | Mollusks. | Technology.
PHOTOGRAPHY. The report of the photographer of the Museum, Mr. 'T. W. Smillie, shows that 1,359 negatives, 3,501 silver prints, 373 platinum prints, 140 velox prints, 79 lantern slides, 2,346 blueprints, and two enlarge

<<<Page: 76>>>

ments were made during the year. Under the direction of the Secretary, Mr. Smillie also devoted considerable time to recording the flight of birds by means of telephoto cameras stationed at elevated points in the Zoological Park. He likewise rendered assistance to the Civil Service Commission in the examination of applicants for positions in the Government service requiring a practical knowledge of photography.
The Museum has received, as usual, important assistance from several of the Departments and bureaus of the Government. Its relations to the U. S. Geological Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, the Biological Survey and Divisions of Entomology and Botany of the Department of Agriculture, and the Bureau of American Ethnology, especially in regard to the transfer of collections, have been referred to elsewhere. Officers of the Army and Navy stationed in the new possessions have made valuable contributions, and representatives abroad of the Department of State have been instrumental in securing interesting material. The Departments of War and of the Navy have rendered generous help toward building up the collections of history and of the implements of war, having presented and deposited during the year many objects of exceeding interest and value. The Army Medical Museum has also cooperated most liberally in promoting the welfare of the recently established Division of Physical Anthropology. Special acknowledgments are due to the Quartermasters’ Department of the Army for many courtesies in connection with the transportation of specimens and outfits to and from distant points, and to the Treasury Department for the prompt admission and shipment to Washington of specimens received from abroad at several of the custom-houses. 7
Lousiana Purchase Exposition.—The exhibits of the National Museum, together with those of the Smithsonian Institution and of the other Government branches under its direction, were practically all in place in the Government building at St. Louis on the opening day, April 30, 1904. Under the direction of Dr. F. W. True, who represents the Institution and the Museum on the Government board, no pains have been spared to make this display both interesting and noteworthy.
The anthropological exhibits of both the Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology were assembled under the supervision of Mr. W. H. Holmes, whose principal aim in the former connection has been to illustrate the higher culture of the native American peoples as shown in their arts and industries, the specimens selected being as far as possible the most typical of their kind. Among them are examples of

<<<Page: 77>>>

bas. REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.
native architecture, sculpture, ceramics, fabrics, metal work, and of the development in water craft, musical instruments, pipes, ceremonial objects, ete. The most striking feature of the exhibit is a series of tive models of ancient Aztec ruins in Mexico; namely, the ‘*’Temple of the Cross” at Palenque, Chiapas; the ** Temple of the Columns” at Mitla, Oaxaca; the temple of Xochicalco at Morales; the ** Castle” at Chichen-Itza, Yucatan; and the *‘ House of the Governor” at Uxmal, Yucatan. The collection also contains a number of plaster casts of some of the most famous religious sculptures of the Assyrians, Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans.
In biology the most conspicuous objects are the cast and skeleton of a sulphur-bottom whale, about 80 feet long, taken off the coast of Newfoundland. Many of the larger mammals of the world are represented by especially fine examples of the art of taxidermy, among them being the hippopotamus, rhinoceros, lion, tiger, giraffe, moose, caribou, axis-deer, sambur-stag, antelope, wild sheep, chamois, etc., and many birds of popular interest, such as game birds, birds of paradise, pheasants, the vulture, pelican, etc. A specimen of the curious hoactzin of Guiana, South America, with its nest, eggs, and young, occupies a case by itself, and the great egg of the A%pyornis, a now extinct bird of Madagascar, is represented. Deep-sea fishes and some of the large species of reptiles are shown in the form of models, and there is also a fine display of butterflies, including many large and brilliant forms from tropical America and the Old World. An especially interesting feature is a reproduction of the ‘‘Children’s Room” in the Smithsonian building at Washington.
The most striking specimens in the Department of Geology are restorations of the large extinct Stegosaur and Triceratops, alongside of which have been placed the skeletons of a mastodon and an elephant, by way of contrast. Dr. George P. Merrill, in charge of this Department, has also brought together a very interesting collection of meteorites, including casts of some of the largest ones known, such as that discovered by Lieutenant Peary in Greenland, and the Bacubarito meteorite found in the State of Sinaloa, Mexico. The mineral exhibit embraces some of the most beautiful varieties from all parts of the world, and is supplemented by two other collections, showing the various forms of silica and of carbonate of calcium. Among the fossil invertebrates are many interesting forms, and among the vertebrates are fishes, reptiles, a pterodactyl, and a complete skeleton of a moa, a large extinct flightless bird.
The official report upon the exposition by Doctor True will appear in the next annual report.
Lewis and Clark Kxposition.—On April 13, 1904, the President of the United States approved the bill (S. 276) providing for the celebra:

<<<Page: 78>>>

tion of the one-hundredth anniversary of the exploration of the Oregon country by Captains Meriwether Lewis and William Clark. The bill authorizes a Government exhibit in this connection, and appropriates $200,000 for its preparation, as well as $250,000 for a building.
At the Ninth International Geological Congress, held at Vienna, Austria, from August 20 to 27, 1903, the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum were represented by Mr. Charles Schuchert, assistant curator of stratigraphic paleontology. The total attendance at this congress from the United States was 22, papers being read by three of the number, namely, Prof. C. R. Van Hise, of the University of Wisconsin; Mr. Bailey Willis, of the U. S. Geological Survey, and Dr. E. O. Hovey, of the American Museum of Natural History.
Delegates appointed before the end of the fiscal year to congresses to be held during the summer of 1904 were as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and batrachians, Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., assistant curator of mammals, and Dr. C. W. Stiles, custodian of the helminthological collections, to the Sixth International Congress of Zoology, at Berne, Switzerland, during August; and Mr. William H. Holmes, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, to the Congress of Americanists at Stuttgart, during the same month. These same persons were also designated by the Department of State as official representatives of the Waited States.
Dr. Paul Haupt, honorary curator of historic archeology, was appointed, on April 30, 1904, to represent the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum at the Fourteenth International Congress of Orientalists, to be held in Algiers in April, 1905.
The classification: of the scientific departments of the Museum remains as indicated in the report for last year, with the following exceptions: The title of the ‘‘ division of religions” has been changed to ‘‘division of historic religions,” with Dr. Cyrus Adler as honorary curator, and the former ‘‘section of historic religious ceremonials” has been abolished. That of the *‘ division of history and biography” has been changed to ‘‘division of history,” with Mr. A. Howard Clark as honorary curator and Mr. Paul Beckwith as assistant curator, the ‘‘section of American history” being omitted. The ‘*section of electricity” has been abolished, Mr. George C. Maynard, who was in charge of that section, being the assistant curator of the division of technology.

<<<Page: 79>>>

Mr. William H. Holmes, formerly Head Curator of the Department of Anthropology, but now Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, has accepted the position of honorary curator of the division of prehistoric archeology, and Mr. J. D. McGuire, ‘also of the Bureau of Ethnology, that of collaborator in the same division. Other appointments have been made as follows: Dr. Edward L. Greene, formerly professor of botany in the Catholic University of America, associate in botany; Mr. Paul Brockett, custodian of the division of graphic arts, and Mr. J. S. Goldsmith as superintendent of construction and labor, being a part of the service performed by the late Dr. J. E. Watkins. The appointment of Mr. Walter L. Hahn, as aid in the division of mammals, in 1902-03, inadvertently failed to receive mention in the last report.
A number of members of the scientific staff have severed their connection with the Museum, all at their own volition, to accept positions elsewhere at higher compensation. Among these were Mr. F. A. Lucas, curator of comparative anatomy, who has become curator-inchief of the Museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences; Mr. Louis Pollard, assistant curator in the division of plants; Mr. Rolla P. Currie, aid in the division of insects; and Mr. W. C. Phalen, aid, Messrs. R. 8. Bassler and Alvan 8. Stewart, preparators, in the Department of Geology.
Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., of the division of mammals, who on November 1, 1902, was temporarily transferred to the service of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus in connection with the exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition as chief special agent, is still employed in that capacity.
It is with deep regret that I have to record the death, on August 11, 1903, of Dr. J. Elfreth Watkins, whose official connection with the National Museum extended almost continuously over a period of nearly twenty years.
Dr. Watkins was born in Ben Lomond, Virginia, on May 17, 1852, his parents being Dr. Francis B. Watkins and Mary Elfreth. He was a descendant of Thomas Watkins, who, during the War of the Revolution, aided in organizing -a troop of cavalry, while on his mother’s side he was connected with Timothy Matlack, known as the ‘* Fighting Quaker,” a member of the Committee on Safety in Pennsylvania, and later a delegate to the Continental Congress from 1780 to 1787; and also with John Elfreth, who served in the Philadelphia City Troops in 1814.
After receiving an academic education at Tremont Seminary in

<<<Page: 80>>>

Re OS Se Seer oe
arr Pt D>
Morristown, Pennsylvania, young Watkins entered Lafayette College, from which he was graduated in 1871, with the degrees of C. E. and M. 8S. He then became connected, as mining engineer, with the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company, remaining one year, after which he entered the employ of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company as assistant engineer of construction. In 1873 he was disabled for field work by an accident, which resulted in the loss of his right leg. Upon his recovery he was assigned to the Amboy division of the Pennsylvania road. In the same year he was appointed chief clerk of the Camden and Atlantic Railroad, and a year later was reassigned to the Amboy division of the Pennsylvania Railroad, which position he held until 1886, two years after the beginning of his connection with the National Museum.
His first connection with the Museum was in 1884, when he was appointed ‘‘honorary curator of transportation.” In i8s6 he accepted a salaried position in the service of the Museum, to which he devoted all of his time until 1892, when he returned to the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and at once began the preparation of its exhibits for the World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Later he was placed in charge of the Department of Industrial Arts in the Field Columbian Museum, a direct outgrowth of the exposition. He remained there only one year, however, coming back to Washington in 1895 to fill the positions of curator of mechanical technology and superintendent of buildings in the National Museum, which he held until his death.
In 1891 he became very active in promoting the interests of the Patent Centennial Celebration held in Washington, and served as secretary of the executive committee.
Doctor Watkins was a member of several patriotic and other societies, including the American Society of Civil Engineers, the Society of Colonial Wars, the Society of the Sons of the Revolution, the Society of the War of 1812, and the Philosophical Society of Washington. In recognition of his standing among authorities on the history of the mechanical arts the Stevens Institute of Technology conferred upon him the degree of ‘‘ doctor of engineering” in 1900.
Among the best known of his published writings are ** Beginnings of Engineering” (1888); ‘* The Development of the Rail and Track” (1889); ‘* The Log of the Savannah ” (1890); and ‘* Transportation and Lifting of Heavy Bodies by the Ancients” (1898). His most extensive literary undertaking was the compilation of the history of the Pennsylvania Railroad from 1845 to 1896 (as yet unpublished), which also constitutes a very complete exposition of the general subject of railroad transportation in the United States during the half century.
Mr. Henry Marshall, taxidermist of the division of birds, during a period of nearly thirty years, died on May 26, 1904. He was born at

<<<Page: 81>>>

Oldham, Yorkshire County, England, in 1823 and in 1846 emigrated to America, soon thereafter purchasing a farm at Laurel, Maryland, which remained his home until the time of hisdeath. He first engaged in business as a machinist, in partnership witha brother; but having when a young man learned taxidermy, he cultivated it as a recreation and partly as a matter of business, many colleges and other public institutions being supplied with specimens of his handiwork. In 1875 he was appointed to the position of taxidermist in the National Museum, where he continued in service until stricken with paralysis on July 16, 1901.

<<<Page: 82>>>

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF AINGERR ORO OGWae snes sea By OTIs T. MASON. REPORT ON DEE DE EAE MEIN OF BIOLOGY =. 222-2225 ae sce oss By FREDERICK W. TRUE. REPORA ONG TES DE PAR DAUEN DOr ‘GEOLOGY 22254 2. 220 55.222 22 see By GEORGE P. MERRILL.

<<<Page: 83>>>



<<<Page: 84>>>

By Otis T. Mason, Acting Head Curator.
The work of the year has been devoted to the care of specimens in hand and of new materials daily arriving, to finding safe and accessible storage for collections not on exhibition; but, more than all, to making the department useful **for the increase and diffusion of knowledge.”
Although the specimens received number over 5,000 less than in the previous year, when 24,319 were catalogued, they were on the whole as valuable, for the reason that besides those acquired without definite aim very many were secured for the purpose of perfecting old series or of making new ones to illustrate special points in anthropology. Some of the more valuable accessions are here enumerated:
The W. L. Abbott collection, numbering 1,377 specimens from the Malay Peninsula, northern Sumatra, and the adjacent archipelago, adds materially to the resources of the Museum from this almost virgin area. These, with his gatherings in former years from the East Indies and other parts of Asia, form a most valuable addition to the Museum, and constitute the basis of a monograph on the ethnology of the regions explored by Doctor Abbott, now in course of preparation by Professor Mason and Doctor Hough. The collection illustrates the arts of the people of this region, who are especially skillful in the use of plant and vegetable materials, of which the most serviceable is rattan. Besides the ethnological, there are also specimens in physical anthropology, consisting of Moro skulls and monkey and ape brains.
Of unusual interest and value is the collection of 278 ancient Egyptian chipped stone specimens presented by Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr, which includes crescent-shaped implements, leaf-shaped and semilunar blades, spearheads, saws, scrapers, a fine collection of arrow points with extremely long barbes, knives with handles in one piece, and a number of specialized forms for cutting. Mr. Seton-Karr writes:
They are all from the Fayum, and are of a type mainly peculiar to that district. They were found in the desert about 10 miles from present cultivation, the ancient prehistoric lake having a much higher level than the dynastic or, of course, the
present one. 61

<<<Page: 85>>>

There was also secured a large and representative series of archeological specimens, part of a bequest to the U. 5. National Museum, in 1898, by the late I. H. Harris, of Waynesville, Ohio. The archeological portion was placed in the division of prehistoric archeology, and consists mainly of stone implements, including hammer stones, pestles, mortars, grooved axes, polished hatchets, discoidal stones, polished stone amulets, beads, pipes, leaf-shaped blades, arrow points and spearheads, scrapers, drills, shell beads, carvings, and a limited number of copper implements and ornaments. <A catalogue was furnished, giving exact data for a portion of the collection. A number of other specimens had the locality marked upon them, and from this source as well as from letters and memoranda, it is shown that the material was obtained mainly from a few spots in the Miami Valley, Ohio. There is, in addition, a typical series of earthenware vessels from mounds near Charleston, Missouri. The whole embraces 8,533 numbers, although several lots of small flakes and fragments are counted as one number.
The ethnological and historical collections from the Philippine Islands presented to the Museum by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, are especially interesting and valuable from the fact that they were secured personally in the campaign against the Moros of Mindanao by an experienced observer. They comprise many specimens not heretofore in the National Museum, and are rich in weapons, basketry, and the fine brasswork for which the Moros are so famous.
An important addition to the historical division is the gilt dress sword presented to Gen. Jacob Brown by the State of New York for services in the war of 1812. This sword was received as a gift from his grandson, Nathan Brown Chase.
Other interesting specimens received during the year are a serenato saxophone, with accessories and instructions, presented by William Tonk & Bro., of New York, which fills a niche in the collection of musical instruments; a rare flintlock pistol with folding bayonet, made by Miles, London, and presented by Mr. Paul E. Beckwith.
A collection of Morse keys, insulators, and other important historical apparatus used on telegraph lines in the United States about 1860, was presented by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company through C. E. McKim, superintendent of telegraphs at Pittsburg; a telegraph switch, invented about 1855 by E. W. Culgan, of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, and used generally throughout the United States up to 1865, presented by Mr. C. S. Greer, of Zanesville, Ohio; a series of specimens illustrating the development of the hand camera, donated by the Kastman Kodak Company, of Rochester, New York; a collection of native firearms from the Philippine Islands, presented by the President of the United States; and a series of heliogravures of Hellenistic por

<<<Page: 86>>>

Ee ee
traits, useful in connection with the study of the physiognomy of the nations, was given by Theodor Graf, of Vienna, Austria.
During the year the Museum acquired by purchase the large archeological collection from various European localities (11,519 specimens), and a smaller collection (7,815 specimens) of American objects, belonging to the estate of the late Dr. Thomas Wilson. The European collection covers a wide range, beginning with the roughly shaped flint implements from the river gravels of England and France, and ending with the more highly elaborated objects of the polished stone age and the bronze age. The more important groups from Europe include objects of stone, bone, pottery, and bronze from the Swiss lakes; a fine series of chipped and polished stone implements from Scandinavia; and pottery and bronzes from Italy. Of the American series, the most notable are the large collection of stone implements, ete., from Fairfax County, Virginia (the Hunter collection); two sets of cache implements, one including 18 leaf-shaped blades of quartzite from Carter County, Tennessee; and 14 large spearheads of quartzite from Pike County, Arkansas.
A collection of 4 house posts and 2 totem poles was purchased from Dr. George A. Dorsey for exhibition at St. Louis. The house posts, hewn from yellow cedar, are very interesting specimens, and were secured personally by Doctor Dorsey from a Tlinkit village. Each pair is 10 feet in height, 25 feet in breadth, and nearly 4 inches in thickness. The posts are carved, and two of them are of especial interest owing to the fact that they are painted. The totem poles rank among the best examples of wood carving from the Northwest Coast.
Owing to the widespread popular interest in basketry, a number of collections were offered to the Museum, and of these 54 fine examples of Nez Pereé, Chemehuevi, and Maidu baskets were purchased from the Fred Harvey collection, rendering more complete the large and valuable series now displayed in the north-west gallery.
A collection of 48 examples of aboriginal art from southeastern Alaska, consisting of carved clubs, knives, figures, dishes, chests, and embroidered blankets, was purchased from Lieut. G. T. Emmons, U. S. Navy, whose long familiarity with the tribes of this region enhances their value.
The purchase of 14 specimens of crania of the Wasco Indians from the Fred Harvey collection made an important addition to the division of physical anthropology.
A series of models of steamboat propellers, dating from 1681 to 1525, and illustrating the development of this feature of marine architecture for that period, were purchased from Mr. Emil Wellauer.

<<<Page: 87>>>

Casts of Assyro-Babylonian, Egyptian, and Greco-Roman sculptures were purchased from various dealers in England, France, Italy, and the United States. In this collection is a stele engraved with the code of laws of the Babylonian King, Hammurabi, which is of peculiar interest, as it aids in portraying the civilization of Babylon more than four thousand years ago.
Among the specimens acquired through exchange during the year may be mentioned copies of rare musical instruments received from Mrs. John Crosby Brown, in exchange for similar material; and 28 specimens illustrative of the folklore of England and Ireland from Edward Lovett, Esq., Croydon, England, in exchange for American Indian specimens. :
A very interesting collection numbering 550 specimens was secured by J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology. It includes objects from the islands of Trinidad, Grenada, Cariaco, St. Vincent, Barbados, Dominica, Porto Rico, and Cuba. The most notable of these are stone collars, tripointed stone zemes, earthenware bowls of unique form and decoration, and a series of carved stone masks and amulets. There are also polished hatchets and chisels, axes of the Carib type, sculptured pestles, mortars, beads of stone, shell hatchets, and grotesque heads and faces used as decorations of pottery vessels. This collection was made systematically with a view to working out the ancient connections between the two continents of North and South America.
A large number of archeological objects from various caverns, rockshelters, and village sites in the Ozark region in Missouri and Arkansas, collected by William H. Holmes, were obtained by transfer from the Bureau of American Ethnology. These include chipped flint implements, ranging from roughly worked pieces and blades to wellfinished arrow points, spearheads, and scrapers; hammer and rubbing stones, bone implements, fragments of pottery, pieces of basket work, woven fabrics, twisted cords made from the vegetable fiber, cave breccia containing flints, animal bones (mainly split), and a few human bones. The objects are exceptionally well classified. The position, whether in caves, village sites, bottom lands, ete., is carefully marked, and in addition there are furnished two maps and four charts upon which the different localities are indicated. The collection, which numbers 2,710 specimens, is a notable addition to the Museum, as it represents material from new areas.

<<<Page: 88>>>

The division of physical anthropology has been enriched by over 2,000 crania and skeletons transferred from the Army Medical Museum.
During the last few years the curator of the division of technology has made special effort to increase the series illustrating the development of firearms. Recently there has been lent by Col. Wright Rives a finely finished 44-caliber rifle, made by Henry Deringer, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and often used for target practice by David Crockett and other friends of Mr. Rives. This was the rifle used by W. J. Graves in his duel with Jonathan Cilley in 1838.
There may also be mentioned a valuable series of sporting rifles, collected by Mr. Herman Hollerith in Mitchell County, North Carolina, in 1893, and lent by him to the Museum. These are typical specimens of sporting guns used throughout the United States up to about 1850. They are provided with homemade powderhorns, powder charges, turkey calls, and other appliances, showing the skill of the early backwoodsman.
A collection of rifles, muskets, carbines, and revolvers has been transferred to the National Museum by the Ordnance Office of the War Department. These weapons include, besides the guns manufactured by the Government for many years, fine specimens made by private firms for the Government. There is one remarkable example, which is a 7-barrel flintlock revolving gun, with 11-inch barrels, caliber .50, fastened to a central frame and revolved by hand, to bring each barrel successively under a common flash pan.
Another especially rare and valuable loan from the War Department is the Ferguson breech-loading rifle, which it has been claimed is the only one of its kind in existence. It was invented and patented in England in 1775-76 by Maj. Patrick Ferguson, of the British Army, and was manufactured by Mr. D. Egg, of London. This gun was presented by Major Ferguson to Capt. Frederick de Peyster and bequeathed by him to his son, Gen. John Watts de Peyster.
To the division of history there has been added a number of objects illustrating the colonial and Revolutionary periods, including interesting relics received from Gen. John Watts de Peyster, who has during the last few years presented his Napoleonic library to the Smithsonian Institution. Mention may also be made of the sword and epaulets worn by Gen. Alexander McComb, U.S. Army, a loan from Mrs. F. C. d’Hautville, and of a fine portrait in oil of George Catlin, the Indian portrait painter, received from Mrs. Louise Catlin Kinney. The portrait, which is an excellent likeness, was painted in 1849 by Mr. W. H. Fisk, R. A. It adds much to the interest of the great collection of Indian portraits given to the Museum many years ago.
Asa result of the war with Spain in 1898 the Museum has gradually acquired a large number of objects illustrating the history of the peo-
NAT Mus 1904——5

<<<Page: 89>>>

ple of our insular possessions. During the past year Dr. R. B. Grubb, U.S. Army, added to his collection 53 specimens from the Moros of western Mindanao, Philippine Islands, consisting of edged weapons, spears, armor, ceremonial objects, matting and costumes of these interesting and warlike people. .
Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, continued his researches in the West Indies, visiting Cuba, Porto Rico, and other islands as far south as Trinidad. His collection contains many notable objects in carved stone, as zemes, or tripointed idols, masks, amulets, pottery of rare forms, and implements and utensils of hard, finely-polished rock.
Field work in New Mexico and Arizona was carried on by Dr. Walter Hough, assistant curator of the division of ethnology, who succeeded in obtaining a valuable collection of basketry, pottery, stone, bone, wood, and shell implements, weapons, ornaments, and ceremonial objects from a region heretofore unexplored. Ruins near Magdalena, Datil, along the upper Tulerosa River at Frisco, and near Luna, New Mexico, were examined. The last named were excavated and important data and specimens were collected. A reconnoissance of cave and cliff ruins in this region was made and a number of specimens secured. At the close of the work Doctor Hough proceeded northwestward by way of Alpine, Nutrioso, Springerville, and St. Johns, to the Santa Fe Railroad at Holbrook, Arizona. During his trip he traversed a stretch of country 270 miles wide between points on the railroads. The object of Doctor Hough was to cut across lines of north and south migration of peoples in early times, and in this respect much valuable information was gathered.
In May, Mr. George C. Maynard commenced a special investigation of the history of the locomotive ‘‘ Stourbridge Lion,” with a view to clearing up some unsettled questions relating to the authenticity of parts of the locomotive in the custody of the Museum, as well as to determine the whereabouts of other parts now in the possession of private parties. He visited Honesdale, Carbondale, Pittston, Scranton and other places in Pennsylvania, where he obtained much valuable information.
Mr. Paul E. Beckwith, assistant curator in the division of history, acting under special directions from the Assistant Secretary, spent the month of June at the Louisiana Purchase F .position examining certain anthropological collections.
No changes have been made in the method of handling accessions. All collections received during the year have been catalogued and

<<<Page: 90>>>

cared for, and, so far as possible, systematically arranged. Specimens subject to destruction by insects have been poisoned.
Increased space and facilities for preservation and installation were obtained by the finishing of the repairs in the hall of prehistoric archeology, which has been closed for two years; by dismounting many pictures from swinging screens and putting the former into the study series; by building additional racks for unit drawers in the hall of history and in the graphic arts storage; by adding to the furniture in the east hall a large gun rack, presented by the War Department; and by building new racks in the laboratory of physical anthropology.
A great deal of time has been spent in labeling the musical instruments, which number nearly fifteen hundred pieces. This collection is in the care of Mr. EK. H. Hawley, who has completed an elaborate catalogue of the entire series. It is provided with four sets of labels, as follows:
1. General labels, descriptive of the plan of classification.
2. Case labels, naming the class of instruments in each inclosure.
3. Descriptive labels, explaining the structure and functions of the instruments in each case.
4. Individual labels, giving the native name, the English name, locality and peoples, and collector of each specimen.
The collection has been installed to teach history of thought and of development through inventions, from the simplest monotone device to mark rhythm up to the most elaborate apparatus for musical expression. The exhibit is divided into four grand divisions, according to the structure of the instruments, and the pieces are arranged according to simplicity or supposed order of invention. The divisions may be described as follows:
(1) Vibrating solid, sonorous bodies; (I]) vibrating membranes; (IIJ) vibrating strings; (IV) vibrating columns or currents of air.
Musical instruments are put into vibration or functioned: (1) immediately, by human agency only; (2) mediately, by means of devices in the hand; (3) mechanically, through the agency of keyboards and the like, and (4) automatically, by machinery, which demands no skill; (5) Holian harps and wind bells are vibrated without human agency. There are five methods employed in playing, namely, striking or hammering; picking or twanging; rubbing with the hand, bow, wheel, etc. ; blowing; and sympathetically.
The four grand divisions have been mounted, where practicable, so as to indicate geographic and ethnic distribution, and arranged in sets as related to the musical scale. Some advance has been made in the literature of music, but none in collecting portraits of composers, instrument makers, or writers on the subject,

<<<Page: 91>>>

Case and specimen labels were prepared for the series illustrating heating and illuminating and other subjects, and many hundreds of labels were printed for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. Mr. Thomas Sweeny continued the systematic care of the study series.
The crowded condition of the Museum seriously interferes with the association of the exhibition with the study series. The ideal connection between the two is partly maintained in the northwest range and in a few other parts of the Museum where the student, attracted by a specimen, wishes to go further into the subject, and finds the study series close at hand. But in other exhibits the study material has to be stored away so as to be practically inaccessible.
The exhibits in many of the halls are in a satisfactory condition, being well arranged and well labeled; but in other halls old-fashioned methods still prevail and the labeling is inadequate.
A number of cases were arranged in the northwest gallery, to illustrate the different types of basketry, this subject having attracted much popular attention of late owing to the publication by the National Museum of Professor Mason’s monograph on Aboriginal American Basketry. A collection of lamps has been arranged in the east hall, to show the development of illumination. <A fine portrait of George Catlin, lent by his daughter, Mrs. Louise Catlin Kinney, was installed in the north-west range amidst the great painter’s works. A large number of specimens from the Philippine Islands, from various sources, were set up for exhibition in the gallery of the north-west court. Among these is the Mearns collection from Mindanao. A special studio was set apart for the Abbott collections from Malaysia, with reference to publishing an illustrated account of them. A great deal of time was expended in the installation of musical instruments, now one of the richest in the world. <A rare collection of objects illustrating Tibetan religion has been set up and labeled. A walnut case extending along one side of the east hall has been installed with a large collection of muskets, rifles, and carbines, some of which were received from the War Department; and three table-cases, especially fitted up for the exhibition of revolvers and pistols, were also placed in the east hall and filled with a collection of historical military revolvers, and single and double barreled pistols of various dates and types, some of which are not duplicated, so far as known, in any other public or private collection. The original Francis life-saving car was permanently installed in a new mahogany case, especially designed for the purpose; while another was made for the cylinder of the Hornblower

<<<Page: 92>>>

engine, the first steam engine ever erected on the western continent, having been imported from England in 1753, set up by Josiah Hornblower, and used for pumping water from the copper mines of Col. John Schuyler, located opposite Belleville, near Newark, New Jersey. Two clocks received from the Chelsea Clock Company, of Boston, through the courtesy of Charles H. Pearson, treasurer, were placed in the east hall near the telegraph instruments. Here the noon signals are received from the U. 5S. Naval Observatory, and serve a useful purpose in illustrating to visitors the Government’s method of distributing correct time throughout the United States.
The Daughters of the American Revolution have manifested great interest in the historic collections, and cases especially devoted to their contributions have been arranged and labeled.
Models of a large number of objects, chiefly ethnologic, have been made under the supervision of the Department for use in filling out the series of exhibits in the Museum and for exchange purposes. A number of replicas in plaster have also been prepared under the direction of Mr. William H. Holmes, including a series of casts of 120 of the most important archeologic objects illustrating the higher achievements of the ancient Mexican peoples. One set of these; carefully colored, was installed with the Museum’s exhibit at the St. Louis Exposition, while several additional sets were prepared for exchange with other museums. These replicas have been executed with the greatest care, and one series has been photographed side by side with the original objects for distribution to the museums with which exchanges are contemplated. Up to the present time these include the Field Columbian Museum, Chicago; Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg; Free Museum of Science and Art, Philadelphia; American Museum of Natural History, New York; Museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, Brooklyn; Peabody Museum, Cambridge; and also with the following foreign museums: Trocadero Museum, Paris; British Museum, London; Royal Ethnological Museum, Berlin; Royal Museum of Dresden; National Museum of Mexico, and the National Museum of Argentina.
The preparators of this Department, from plans by Mr. Holmes, also constructed models of a number of the ruined buildings of Mexico and Yucatan, five of which were completed and installed with the exhibit prepared for the St. Louis. Exposition. These represent the ‘** Pyramid Temple,” Xochicalco; the ‘‘ Temple of the Columns,” Mitla; ‘House of the Governor,” Uxmal; ‘‘ El Castillo,” Chichenitza; and the ‘*Temple of the Cross,” Palenque. Models are kept of such parts of these as can be cast in plaster for use in preparing replicas.
In. the laboratory of this Department twenty masks, besides other

<<<Page: 93>>>

castings of Indians belonging to delegations visiting Washington, have also been made at the expense of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and from these a number of busts have been prepared for the Museum exhibits and for exchange with other museums. Some material has already been received from the Field Columbian Museum, the American Museum of Natural History, and the Royal Ethnological Museum, Berlin, in exchange for casts. It is expected that these exchanges will result in adding greatly to the collections in the National Museum, and at the same time they will enrich the various museums with which arrangements are made.
The work of photographing Indians visiting Washington has been greatly enlarged during the year. By special arrangement whole delegations have visited the Museum, where photographs of them, either singly or in groups, have been made and measurements taken.
In the past ten years, the Museum has been receiving from Dr. William L. Abbott important ethnological collections made by him in the Eastern Continent, especially in southern Malaysia. During last year much time was spent in arranging and classifying this material, and in preparing descriptions and illustrations for publication. The work will be continued during the coming year. Mr. Holmes has continued intermittently the preparation of a monograph on the mines and quarries of the aborigines, based to a large extent upon collections in the division of prehistoric archeology. Mr. Paul Beckwith began a systematic description of the Grant relics in the National Museum, for publication in the form of an illustrated catalogue. He has also prepared a card catalogue of the swords, with the view of studying the evolution of this arm, and has continued his work on a catalogue of the collections of ancient coinage in the Museum.
Doctor Hrdlicka made measurements on negro children and adults, and on 32 Indians belonging to visiting delegations. He continued his studies on the humerus, atlas, cranial fosse, parietal and malar bones, and also commenced testing the value and effect of various preservatives on the excised brain.
The usefulness of the Department of Anthropology to students and investigators is shown by the number of persons who have derived benefit therefrom. Each year more and more institutions and individuals seek access to these collections, and through the cordial relations thus established the Department has not only contributed to education, but has profited in the increase of its material for study. Among those visiting the Museum for the purpose of carrying on researches in its anthropological material may be mentioned the following:
Professor Sherrington, of the University College, Liverpool, inves

<<<Page: 94>>>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT ‘SECRETARY. ar
tigated the negro brains in the collection, in order to determine the relative proportions of the windings of the Rolandic fissure in this race. Miss Voorhees examined the collections from prehistoric Europe in connection with a study on the Man of the Drift Gravels and the Cave Dwellers of France. Miss Marie Ruef Hofer, of Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, examined the plan of synoptic series in the Museum as a basis of exercise and manual labor teaching. John P. 8. Neligh, of Columbus, Georgia, studied Indian textile art, basketry, beadwork, and weaving, with a view to teaching. Ole Solberg, from Christiania, Norway, spent several days in the Museum, preparing himself for a trip to Arizona, in order to investigate the social customs of the Hopi (Moki); on his return he examined the Eskimo collection, with a view to enlarging his monograph on Eskimo stone implements.
» Judge James Wickersham, U.S. District Judge, Eagle City, Alaska, made studies of the works and social customs of the Indians in that region, with a view to deciding their fitness for citizenship, and consulted the division of ethnology on what constitutes civilized tribes, with a view to enfranchising certain tribes of his judicial district. Lieut. William E. W. McKinlay, of the First U. 8. Cavalry, having been detailed by the Division of Military Information in the War Department to work up grammars and dictionaries of the chief languages in the Philippines, utilized the resources and methods of the Department of Anthropology to aid him in his labors. Miss Maude Barrows Dutton, Columbia University, New York City,-spent February 19 to February 29 in the Museum, gathering illustrations for a series of school readers to show the development of primitive industries. Miss Cora M. Folsom, curator of the museum at Armstrong School, Hampton, Virginia, examined cases, methods of exhibition, and the Museum system of caring for the study series; she also received instructions in cataloguing, poisoning, and other museum work. The Director of the Mint, Mr. George E. Roberts, selected from the Museum twenty-eight coins to illustrate a lecture on numismatics, and transparencies were made for him in the Museum laboratory. Mr. Stewart Culin, curator of the division of ethnology in the Brooklyn Institute, made further studies in the games of the American Indians, with reference to a paper being published by the Bureau of American Ethnology. Miss Grace Nicholson, Pasadena, California, spent the month of June at the Museum, studying the classification and care of basketry; and the Immigration Bureau of the Department of Commerce and Labor, through its statistician, Mr. Wells F. Andrews, consulted the Division of Ethnology for the purpose of obtaining information which would enable the Bureau to classify more exactly by nationality and race the vast number of immigrants into the United States.

<<<Page: 95>>>

The following material was transmitted to students and investigators outside of the Museum: A number of photographs lent to Miss Maude Barrows Dutton, of New York City, for reproduction ina series of textbooks prepared under the supervision of the Teachers College, Columbia University; whale tusks, implements connected with whale fishing, and a number of models of fishermen’s boats lent to Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, in charge of the exhibit of the Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Commerce and Labor, at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition; a num ber of arrows from the Natano (Hupa) Indians of California, Indian games (3), Indian tops, and Indian popguns, were lent to Mr. Stewart Culin, to be used in illustrating a paper published by the Bureau of American Ethnology; models of Indian fire-making apparatus were lent to Mr. Gerard Fowke, for the general anthropological exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition; the original Francis life-saving car was lent to the Treasury Department for exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. To Mr. 8S. W. Stratton, of the Bureau of Standards, for the same purpose, were lent examples of Mexican and Japanese scales, the coin scales of England, and a set of antique silversmith’s weights, manufactured in Nuremburg, Germany; from the division of history a number of specimens connected with the mili-’ tary life of Gen. W. T. Sherman were lent, upon the request of Mr. P. T. Sherman, to the U. S. Military Academy, for exhibition at the Louisiana Purchase Mxposition; and an interesting case of historical specimens belonging to the Daughters of the American Revolution was sent to the exposition in the care of Mr. Paul Beckwith, for installation.
It is the policy of the Department of Anthropology not to send out valuable specimens to individuals for study, but to invite them to carry on their investigations at the Museum. This course is safer for the collections, and the student himself is thereby brought into touch with other materials of which he probably has had no knowledge.
The Acting Head Curator calls attention to the need of additional help in the several divisions. Accessions are multiplied, the correspondence has greatly increased, and yet the same number of men and women have to do the work. These conditions have been recognized and remedied as far as possible by temporary aid.
From Doctor Hough the following observations are received with reference to the plans for the development of the division of ethnology:
This is the era of collector-dealers in ethnology. Material that falls into their hands is held for sale, so that a museum must enter the lists with money to purchase
or must go into the field as a collector. The latter plan tends to build up a museum with the most desirable material, but it requires funds as well as trained men who

<<<Page: 96>>>

must spend part of the time in the field, and part in the care of the specimens. It is also most desirable to foster disinterested collectors, who engage in the work for relaxation without thought of gain. It is the opinion of the Curator that this matter of providing for the purchase of specimens should have attention by the Museum authorities. The interior development of the Division as pursued by the Curator and his assistant has been carried on (1) by the study of correlated objects, publication, and exhibition to the best advantage for educational purposes; (2) by the grouping of ethnic material to show at a glance the life and arts of tribes and peoples; (3) the collection of information regarding specimens and filing such data where it is readily available for students and for lables; (4) the storing of photographic blueprints by subjects. This work is being steadily carried on and is improving the status of the division each year.
Mr. Holmes has planned a sweeping reinstallation of the division of prehistoric archeology. To the exhibits prepared for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition will be assigned the space in the middle of the hall. Mr. Maynard proposes to enlarge the subject of metrology in all its branches, by originals when possible, and also by copies and models of originals. He also will assiduously increase the material in the section of gunnery, for which the time is propitious. In this connection Mr. Maynard has prepared an elaborate classification of the topics under his division. Mr. Brockett plans to very much enlarge the study series in graphic arts by bringing from storage and putting in new drawers much material hitherto unavailable. Doctor Flint, having completed his classification and cataloguing .in the division of medicine, will develop his plan on the lines established. In the divi sion of history, Mr. Beckwith will avail himself of the gallery recently assigned to him to enlarge and improve the study series. The assistant curator of the division of physical anthropology, Dr. A. Hrdlicka, makes the following recommendations:
The time has come when the division of physical anthropology can begin to prepare exhibits of great interest and instructive value, relating on the one hand to the American aborigines, and on the other to man in general. The part concerning the Indian would complete the immense ethnological exhibit; that concerning man in general would be a continuation of the series in biology. To achieve these results, the division is in need of the exclusive services of a modeler. A most important part of the Indian exhibits, and at the same time valuable for exchanges with other museums, would be a series of casts of the natives. For this purpose the modeler should take visiting Indians, and also be sent to do field work. In the biological exhibits, an important rdle would be played by casts of brain and other objects; by representations in plaster of human development and decline; and by showing the
numerous types of man. All this will require the constant application of an able modeler through a number of years, and the work can and should be begun at once.
Doctor Hrdlicka also calls attention to the fact that a comprehensive biological survey of the people of the United States is a possibility, though it would be difficult, extend over a number of years, and require a large corps of trained aids. There is no other country that presents more vital problems to be solved by such a survey

<<<Page: 97>>>

than the United States. This is due to the great diversity of its climate and industries; but above all, to the heterogeneity of its constituents. The objects of such a survey would be to investigate the physical status; certain physiological elements; relative fecundity; the effects of racial mixtures; and certain pathological conditions which have important influences on the population. These investigations would have to be prosecuted on (qa) the various racial divisions of the population; (4) the Americans in large cities, as well as those in the rural districts; those living in high and those in low lands; those in the coldest and in the hottest regions; the seamen with extremes in kinds of nourishment; (¢) all such parts of the population as follow the same mode of physical or mental activity, such as the laborer, specialized artisan, professional athlete, specialized brainworker, the highest class of inventor or original composer; (7) such divisions of the population as are-continuously subjected to differing social conditions, and (e) the defective classes. In order that a survey of this nature should succeed in this country, the very first condition would be to elaborate, as far as possible, in conjunction with the Immigration Bureau and the Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce and Labor, accurate maps representing the racial constituents of the population. .
Mr. Hawley proposes to complete his card catalogue of all the types of musical instruments ever used by man; also by exchanges, copies, and models to make the series of specimens complete as to types.
In looking over the stock of material already mounted for exhibition in swinging sereens, unit boxes, and special frames, it was found that much of it was piled up in such a way that for years it would be lost not only to the public but also to the student. In the new Museum installation should not be handicapped by faded backgrounds, soiled labels, and discarded furniture. Therefore many hundreds of specimens have been cut from the mountings and returned to the study series, the boxes and frames being sent to storage. In this way the floors of the halls have been cleared of packing boxes. It is purposed to continue this process into spaces now set apart for storage.
The general plan for the Department during the year 1904-5 will be to make the collections still more useful to the students, authors, and teachers. No changes of arrangement are contemplated for the present building, but every effort will be made to perfect the exhibits that will be set up in the new one.
Owing to the constant growth of the Department of Anthropology, it was deemed wise during the year to make certain changes in its organization, so that at present all divisions of the subject that may be taught and studied by objects are represented. Physiological

<<<Page: 98>>>

psychology is omitted, since its operations consist of experiments. Its apparatus is provided for in the division of technology, under the class of metrics. Language also is omitted, since its investigation is assigned to the Bureau of American Ethnology. The same is to be said of sociology and primitive religions. The closest relationship, however, exists between the two dependencies of the Smithsonian Institution, the Museum, and the Bureau of American Ethnology, since cult objects, the paraphernalia of customs, writings, and inscriptions are tangible things and may be exhibited. Mr. William H. Holmes served as honorary curator, and Mr. J. D. McGuire as collaborator in the division of prehistoric archeology, Mr. E. P. Upham having charge of cataloguing. The division of technology was enlarged to include all phases of handicraft. Mr. Paul Brockett has been made custodian of the division of graphic arts. The division of religions becomes the division of historic religions, the cults of unlettered peoples being assigned to the Bureau of American Ethnology and their cult objects exhibited in the division of ethnology. The division of history and biography becomes the division of history, with Mr. A. H. Clark as honorary curator and Mr. Paul Beckwith, assistant curator. In February Miss Mary Virginia Young was made clerk in the office of the Acting Head Curator, and in April Mr. Richard A. Allen was appointed preparator in the Department.

<<<Page: 99>>>



<<<Page: 100>>>

By Freprerick W. True, Head Curator.
The principal event of the year covered by this report was the completion of the exhibit for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition and its installation inSt. Louis. Fully two years were occupied in assembling and preparing this exhibit, and the staff of every division of the department, except that of plants, shared in the work to a greater or less extent. The Head Curator, having been placed in charge of the entire exhibit of the Smithsonian Institution, found it impossible to attend at the same time to the regular work of the department, and for about five months the general management devolved upon one of the curators, Dr. L. Stejneger. A full report on the St. Louis exhibit will be submitted next year after the close of the exposition.
The Museum had the good fortune to receive on deposit for ten years the herbarium and botanical library of Prof. E. L. Greene. The herbarium comprises about 60,000 sheets, and is believed to be one of the finest private botanical collections in existence. A detailed statement of the conditions of this deposit will be found in the earlier pages of this Report.
Dr. William L. Abbott continued his generous donations of valuable zoological material collected by him in the East Indies.
The accessions show a substantial increase in most classes, and in mollusks the number of lots received was double that of last year. While it is often difficult to estimate with exactness the scientific value of material received, the additions of the year as a whole may be considered as comparing favorably with those of previous years. The principal exceptions were among the lower invertebrates, where the accessions, though more numerous than last year, are reported to be much less important. The birds’ eggs were fewer in number and. less noteworthy.
About 108,000 zoological specimens and 44,000 botanical specimens were received during the year. The former included about 59,000 insects. Marked improvement was made in the condition of the general collections of mammals and reptiles.

<<<Page: 101>>>

The department is handicapped at present chiefly by the crowded condition of the laboratories and storage quarters and exhibition halls, and the want of a sufficient staff of zoological assistants in the lower grades.
The arrangement recently made of combining all work on the exhibition series under one head continued in force during the year with excellent results. On account of the great amount of work required in connection with the exhibit for the St. Louis Exposition, however, the regular exhibition work was brought almost to a standstill. The World’s Fair work continued until May, and, on account of belated material, one or two pieces were still in hand during the closing months of the year. 5
The remounting of especially valuable birds in the exhibition series continued during the year, 13 specimens having been successfully treated. Shortly before its close, two new cases were provided for 4 of the new groups of game birds, located in the entrance hall of the Smithsonian building. In addition, 30 other birds were mounted, 12 dismounted, and 59 skins made up for study purposes. Fourteen pieces of groundwork were made for birds exhibited at St. Louis. In the case of birds mounted during the year, an effort was made to color the bills, feet, and naked portions of the skins as in life. New work was begun on a series of fish casts to fill cases now unoccupied.
A brief summary of the work done for the St. Louis exhibit during the past two years is as follows:
A series of large mammals representing the principal large game animals of the world were mounted, including such huge forms as the giraffe, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, polar bear, and moose. Molds were made in Newfoundland of an adult sulphurbottom whale, 78 feet long, from which a cast in paper was prepared and properly painted. The skeleton of a full-grown whale of this species was also obtained at the same place and mounted in St. Louis. Specimens representing the species of peacocks were mounted, together with a collection of the most beautiful species of pheasants. To these were added a few other birds of remarkable appearance or habits, and a group of the South American hoactzins, which are of special interest from the fact that the young have hooked claws on the wings, by means of which they climb about from branch to branch. Casts of a large python and of several other interesting snakes, such as the cobra, coral snake, rattlesnake, ete., were prepared and painted. A series of enlarged models of the most grotesque or otherwise remarkable deep-sea fishes was prepared from specimens in the National Museum. The synoptic series of invertebrates belonging to the regular exhibition series of the Museum was renoyated, enlarged, and thoroughly labeled, A

<<<Page: 102>>>

large series of perfect specimens of the most remarkable butterflies of the world was assembled and arranged for exhibition in unit boxes. A similar series of birds’ eggs, representing the largest and the most remarkably colored or shaped eggs were selected from the Museum collection and arranged on newly designed stands. <A series ofzoological objects attractive to children was prepared for the replica of the Smithsonian ‘‘ Children’s room” which was installed at St. Louis. The whole Museum exhibit was thoroughly labeled, with special reference to the requirements of an exposition.
As mentioned in the report of last year, Mr. B. A. Bean and Mr. J. H. Riley accompanied the expedition of the Baltimore Geographical Society to the Bahama Islands in the summer of 1903, and made considerable collections of fishes, birds, reptiles, mammals, and mollusks and other invertebrates. The collection of fishes added to the knowledge of the fauna of the Bahamas and many of the species represented in it were new to the Museum series, as was also'the case with the corals and crustaceans.
In the spring of 1904 Mr. William Palmer accompanied Dr. George P. Merrill to the State of Sinaloa, Mexico, for the purpose of making a mold of the great Bacubarito meteorite. While on.this expedition, Mr. Palmer collected a few zoological specimens of interest.
Toward the close of the year, Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. 8S. Miller, jr., were detailed to make faunal collections in the Swiss and Italian Alps, the object being to add to the knowledge of the life zones in that region. Mr. B. A. Bean and an assistant visited Beaufort, North Carolina, in June and collected fishes.
The number of lots of specimens in all classes received during the year covered by this report was greater than last year, and in the case of mollusks, as already noted, almost double. Birds’ eggs were less numerous and less important, and the lower invertebrates, though more numerous than last year, were of much less interest scientifically. So far as plants are concerned, the accessions (numbering 555), though somewhat less numerous than last year, exceeded those of any other year since 1895. Of zoological specimens, the total number received was about 107,473, including about 59,000 insects. Of plants, the accessions aggregated 43,800 specimens, as compared with 35,000 in 1903 and 53,500 in 1902. The purchases of plants comprised 10,000 specimens.
The largest transaction of the year, as regards specimens, was, as already mentioned, the deposit by Prof. E. L. Greene of his very

<<<Page: 103>>>

important herbarium, comprising about 60,000 sheets, and his botanical library, numbering about 2,000 volumes. This valuable acquisition will open new opportunities to systematic botanists in the United States of which they will, without doubt, hasten to avail themselves. The details regarding this important deposit will be found in the report of the Assistant Secretary.
Mrs. T. A. Williams, of Memphis, Nebraska, presented some 15,000 plants from various localities in the United States, consisting of the duplicates from Mr. Williams’s herbarium. She also signified her intention to deposit the herbarium itself, now in the George Washington University, but the actual transfer had not been effected at the close of the year on account of press of other Museum business.
Of zoological material, the largest accession was a collection of about 40,000 insects obtained by Messrs. Dyar, Currie, and Caudell in British Columbia. Next in order are the collections received through the Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Commerce and Labor. These comprised about 12,000 land and fresh-water shells and about 670 reptiles from Indiana and other parts of the eastern United States and 3,000 marine mollusks, chiefly from Alaska, preserved in alcohol. The Bureau also transmitted the types of a considerable number of recently-described fishes from the Hawaiian Islands, Japan, and other localities, with other specimens of fishes and also large collections of crustaceans and stony corals, which were obtained during the investigation of the salmon fisheries of Alaska in 1903. In addition, the Bureau transmitted a large series of crayfishes and shrimps from Lake Maxinkuckee, Indiana, collected by Dr. B. W. Evermann and assistants in 1899 and 1900, and also 461 plants collected in Alaska and Oregon.
Special attention is again to be directed to the importance of the collections made by Dr. W. L. Abbott in the East Indies and very generously presented by him to the National Museum. During the year the collections received were those from the Mentawei Archipelago, off the west coast of Sumatra, and from the coast and islands of eastern Sumatra. The mammals from the Mentawi Archipelago comprised about 500 specimens, including 31 new forms, among which were a new genus and species of gibbon, named Stmdas concolor by Mr. G. 8. Miller, jr., and another new gibbon, which Mr. Miller has named Symphalangus klossi in honor ‘of Dr. Abbott’s associate, Mr. C. B. Kloss. The birds from the archipelago number 572 specimens, including several new species and many rare ones, such as the pigeon Columba grisea, the cuckoo Urococcyx xneicauda, ete. The collection from eastern Sumatra comprises 371 mammals, 202 birds, and 83 reptiles and batrachians. The mammals have not yet been identified, but among the birds and reptiles are known to be numerous forms not

<<<Page: 104>>>

previously represented in the National Museum and very valuable for comparison. Some new species are quite likely to be detected later.
Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, added to his previous donations a number.of valuable lots of specimens, comprising 155 mammals from Minnesota, 274 birds from the Philippine Islands, including many rarities, various mollusks, and (conjointly with his son) some interesting birds’ eggs.
Through an arrangement with the Baltimore Geographical Society, Messrs. B. A. Bean and J. H. Riley, of the Museum scientific staff, made an excellent miscellaneous zoological collection in the Bahama Islands, including many desiderata, especially among fishes. Of the 110 species of fishes obtained, many were previously unknown as belonging to the fauna of the Bahamas or were unrepresented in the national collections. Of mammals, 181 specimens were obtained, of which one species was undescribed; of birds, 156 specimens, including anew subspecies of night hawk and the second known specimen of the woodpecker Centurus nyeanus,; of reptiles, 73 specimens, including a new large iguana, described by Dr. L. Stejneger. under the name of Cyclura rileyi.
The Biological Survey, U. 8. Department of Agriculture, transmitted some valuable birds’ eggs and a collection of 377 reptiles from Texas, the result of several years’ collecting and the basis of a paper by Mr. Vernon Bailey on the reptile fauna of the State. One new species of lizard in this collection was described by Doctor Stejneger under the name of Sceloporus merriam?.
Capt. Wirt Robinson, U. S. Army, presented a collection of bats from Cuba and a number of interesting birds. Some 215 birds, a collection of land shells, and about 3,600 insects, together with 34 mammals, from the mountains of Venezuela were purchased from Mr. M. 5. Briceno. Among the former were many rare humming-birds.
A collection of 56 bats and 323 birds from Barbuda and Antigua islands was purchased from Mr. H. Selwyn Branch. The birds represent the fauna of these islands with a great degree of completeness, and comprise several forms not previously known to occur there, as well as a new species of warbler.
Mammals.—Besides the specimens included in the foregoing miscellaneous collections, mention should be made of a number of accessions consisting solely of mammals. Mr. E. O. Wooton, of Mesilla Park, New Mexico, presented the second known specimen of a remarkable bat belonging to the fauna of the United States, known as Luderma maculatum.
A jaguar killed in Texas was purchased from Mr. H. P. Attwater. This is the first authentic specimen of the jaguar from the United
NAT mus 1904——6

<<<Page: 105>>>

States, though the range of the species was considered as including the southern part of that State.
A specimen of the very rare mouse-deer, Zragulus stanleyanus, was purchased from M. Emile Deschamps.
A miscellaneous collection of Old World mammals, including representatives of two new species, was purchased from Mr. W. Schliiter.
A collection of Japanese mammals was purchased from Mr. T. Tsuchida. <A large collection of bats from Vera Cruz, Mexico, was purchased, and by exchange with the British Museum six exceptionally rare bats, belonging to genera not represented in the national collection, were acquired. By exchange with the American Museum of Natural History, a collection of 51 Colombian mammals was obtained.
Birds.—In addition to the birds presented by Doctors Abbott and Mearns, and those acquired from the Biological Survey and the Baltimore Geographical Society above mentioned, a few other especially interesting accessions deserve notice. Mr. Homer Davenport, of East Orange, New Jersey, presented 26 young pheasants. Pheasants in these early stages, which are valuable in the study of the arrangement of feathers, are difficult to obtain. Mr. N. C. Brown, of Portland, Maine, presented an especially well-prepared series of 267 birds from South Carolina. By exchange with the Philippine Museum, at Manila, an excellent series of well-prepared Philippine birds, comprising about 200 specimens, was obtained. Four species of birds-of-paradise not previously represented in the national collection were purchased, as well as 215 specimens of birds from the mountains of Venezuela, comprising several species new to the Museum and including many specimens valuable for comparison in connection with the work on ‘* Birds of North and Middle America.” Some of the humming-birds in this collection are rare in museums.
Of birds’ eggs, Dr. W. L. Ralph added many interesting specimens to his previous donations, and some excellent specimens were presented by Gen. J. W. Barlow. <A collection of rare Mexican eggs and is egos of the hoactzin, also very rare, were purchased.
na oe Hugh M. Smith, Deputy Commissioner of Fisheries, presented a collection of 158 reptiles which he collected in Japan. This material has been of much service to Doctor Stejneger, who is engaged in preparing a work on the reptile fauna of Japan. Mr. E. J. Brown, of Lemon City, Florida, presented 17 rare reptiles from southern Florida, among which were specimens of a new species of spreading adder, described by Doctor Stejneger under the name of //eterodon browni.
Fishes.—The Stanford University presented 10 lots of fishes from Japan, comprising types and cotypes of species collected and described by Dr. David S. Jordan and Mr. Snyder. One lot of excellently-prepared fishes from Puget Sound was presented by Dr. J. C. Thompson,

<<<Page: 106>>>

U.S. Navy. In order to replenish the collection with fresh material and to obtain duplicate specimens for distribution, Messrs. Bean and McKnew, as already mentioned, visited Beaufort, North Carolina. They obtained a large series of specimens. A specimen of the rare Japanese shark, MWitsukurina owstoni, 11 feet long, was purchased. Mollusks.—Rey. Li. T. Chamberlain presented a small collection of rare river mussels, or Undéonidex, for addition to extensive earlier contributions. About 2,500 specimens of several species of western American shells were presented by Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, honorary associate in zoology. Mr. E. J. Court, of Washington City, contributed a series of about 2,000 land shells from Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. From Mr. H. W. Henshaw, of Hilo,
_ Hawaii, was received a very acceptable lot of about 600 Hawaiian land
shells, together with a number of other invertebrates. Mr. Dwight Blaney presented some 300 shells dredged near Mount Desert, Maine, and Mr. C. A. Davis a series of specimens, representing about 72 species, from Bermuda, including cotypes of several forms described by the donor. The Museum received as a gift from Mr. H. N. Lowe and Mrs. Blanche Trask, of California, some small lots of very acceptable Californian shells, which were needed to fill gaps in the series.
Several purchases of mollusks were made during the year in addition to the lot from the mountains of Venezuela referred to. Among these should be mentioned a series of about’ 2,500 Japanese land and marine mollusks, representing 487 species; a large series of unusually rare or beautiful land shells, comprising 252 species; a fine Voluta pulchra, and a large collection of land shells from the coast and islands of California. The latter was obtained from Mr. Henry Hemphill, and is commented on by Doctor Dall as follows:
The series sent by Mr. Hemphill is nearly 50 per cent larger than was called for by the agreement, and may to that extent be regarded as almost a donation. The material comprises a thoroughly representative series showing the various mutations, varieties, and species in which the coast is so rich, including the pleistocene forms when they occur, and illustrating in a remarkable manner the flexibility of what have been regarded as species. There were in all 649 lots of specimens, representing as many distinct varieties or mutations.
Lower invertebrates.—A collection of sea-urchins, chiefly from the Gulf of Siam and the Ingolf dredgings, was obtained by exchange from the Zoological Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark. Dr. K. Kishinouye presented 11 specimens of four species of Japanese precious coral, showing the different varieties. Three of the specimens were cotypes of forms described by Doctor Kishinouye. The National Museum of Brazil presented cotypes of the shrimp Wephrops rubellus, and of the stomatopod crustacean Pseudosquilla braziliensis. My. H. N. Lowe, of Long Beach, California, presented a collection of crustaceans from Catalina and San Clemente islands, among which

<<<Page: 107>>>

were found two new species and several rare ones. In a small collection of Mexican fresh-water crabs received from the U. 5. Biological Survey, one new species was discovered. Specimens of an undescribed species of isopod crustacean, and of Branchipus, were presented by Mr. George E. Morris, of Waltham, Massachusetts. Through exchange with the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, five specimens (four species) of crabs from the Hawaiian Islands, all new to the Museum collection and two new to science, were obtained. By purchase from Emile Deschamps, San José, California, the Museum procured miscellaneous invertebrates from Shanghai, a locality scarcely at all represented in our collections.
Insects.—The accessions of insects numbered 377, comprising 58,953 specimens, as compared with 250 accessions, comprising 37,684 specimens, last vear, a gratifying increase both in number and in quality of material.
Mr. E. A. Schwarz added to the donations of previous years a col-
lection of 6,300 Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, ete., from Texas. Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell presented a large collection of insects from Colo"ado and 325 specimens from New Mexico. Mr. C. F. Baker, of Claremont, California, presented a large collection of Diptera. The members of the Washington Biologists’ Field Club who are interested in entomology collected and presented to the Museum about 3,400 miscellaneous insects from the grounds of the club at Plummers Island, Maryland. A valuable collection of Lepidoptera from British Columbia was presented by Mr. EK. M. Anderson, of the Provincial Museum, Victoria. Two large collections of British Columbia insects, comprising in all about 40,000 specimens, were collected by Messrs. Dyar, Currie, and Caudell.
A miscellaneous collection of Peruvian insects was presented by Mrs. M. J. Pusey, of Callao, Peru, and Mr. Edward A. Klages donated a collection of Venezuelan beetles. Two excellent series of Japanese Hymenoptera were the gift of Prof. 5. Matsamura, of Sapporo. Two collections from India deserve notice here—a series of Hymenoptera presented by Maj. C. G. Nurse, and a series of spiders presented by Prof. N. Jambunathan. Sir George Hampson, of the British Museum, presented a collection of Norwegian Lepidoptera.
Four lots of Philippine insects were donated by the Rev. W. A. Stanton, of Manila. Another Philippine collection of importance was received as a gift from Mr. R. C. McGregor, of the Philippine Museum, Manila.
The Washington Agricultural College presented, through Prof. C. V. Piper, a large collection of Diptera, containing types of Tipulidee described by Mr. Doane. <A collection of Diptera containing types of Poride was presented by Mr. C. T. Brues, of Paris, Texas. Twelve

<<<Page: 108>>>

cotypes of species of spiders were the gift of Mr. Theodore Scheffer, of Manhattan, Kansas.
Among the purchases of the year were three important lots of South American insects, including one from Paraguay and one from Venezuela; also a miscellaneous collection from Australia.
The U. S. Department of Agriculture transmitted two lots of miscellaneous insects comprising 6,054 specimens, of which 4,500 were collected by Mr. E. A. Schwarz in Cuba.
Plants.—The accessions to the National Herbarium during the year
numbered 555, which is considerably above the average for the last thirteen years, though somewhat exceeded last year. The specimens numbered 43,800, or about 9,000 more than last year. The deposit of Professor Greene’s herbarium and the large accession from Mrs. T. A. Williams have already been mentioned (pp. 79, 80). Following these should probably be placed the accessions from the Philippine insular bureau of agriculture, Manila, which aggregate 3,360 specimens. .These were received in exchange. Other important exchanges with the New York Botanical Garden, resulting in the acquisition of 1,317 specimens, were effected during the year. These were from Jamaica and other islands of the West Indies, and from Colorado. By exchange with the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, London, 278 plants from Europe, India, and other Old World regions were obtained. Mr. C. V. Piper, of Pullman, Washington, presented 658 plants from that State. An interesting collection from Mexico, comprising 139 specimens, was presented by Mr. E. W. D. Holway, of Minneapolis, Minnesota. Mr. William Palmer, of the Museum staff, collected 328 plants in Newfoundland while engaged in making molds of a whale at the Balena whaling station.
About 10,000 plants were purchased from outside the United States. The series acquired in this manner were 773 specimens from Australia, 1,606 specimens from Mexico, 471 from Nicaragua, and 109 from Costa Rica. Important purchases of plants of the United States were as follows: Utah, Wyoming, and Nevada, 1,402; California, 1,269; Virginia, 325; Texas and Arkansas, 280; Florida, 212; Oregon, 204.
The national herbarium received from the Department of Agriculture 68 accessions, comprising 1,870 specimens, among which the most important were the collections made in Texas by Mr. Arthur Howet! (74 specimens), by Mr. Fred G. Plummer in New Mexico and Oklahoma (97 specimens), and by Mr. Vernon Bailey, also in New Mexico (165 specimens).
The plants transmitted by the Bureau of Fisheries have been mentioned (see p. 80). They comprise 461 specimens collected in Alaska and Oregon by Messrs. Gilbert, Evermann, Chamberlain, and others.

<<<Page: 109>>>

In the division of mammals the two principal operations which tend toward the preservation and improvement of the great series of specimens reserved for the use of systematic zoologists are the cleaning of skulls and the renovation of skins which have deteriorated on account of the presence of oily matter or from other causes. During the year 1903-4, 6,760 skulls were cleaned, or about 2,700 more than in the preceding year. Somewhat more than two-thirds of these skulls belong to the collection of the Biological Survey, U.S. Department of Agriculture. At the end of the year, 3,000 small and 1,200 large skulls were on hand, for which no contract for cleaning had been made. The importance of this work is due to the fact that at the present time genera and species of mammals are founded largely on cranial characters and measurements, which can only be determined satisfactorily after the skulls have het entirely stripped of the soft parts surrounding or attached to them.
During the year, 289 skins of the smaller species were made over and put in order, and 73 large skins, such as those of deer, antelopes, bears, etc., these being cleaned and tanned.
The condition of the collection as a whole is excellent, but as no new cases for small species were provided no improvement could be made in the systematic arrangement of the material. The large skins are now arranged systematically, but are much overcrowded. During the year the space behind the large exhibition case in the east side of the west hall, about 90 feet in length, was fitted with 274 trays, and the large skulls which are kept there were arranged in systematic order, so that the material is now available. The labeling and arrangement of the alcoholic series was completed during the year, and that part of the collection is in excellent condition.
In the division of birds, on account of lack of assistance and overcrowded quarters, no special progress could be made in improving the general condition of the study series, but many type-specimens were newly labeled, obscure species identified, ete. Some 650 birds sent to the Museum for naming during the year by various institutions and individuals were properly identified, a task which consumed much time. A large amount of material, comprising about 8,500 specimens, was borrowed for use by Mr. R. Ridgway in connection with his manual of North and Middle American birds.
The collection of birds’ eggs is reported to be in better condition than ever before. The arrangement of the nests and eggs was much improved during the year.
The study collection of reptiles and batrachians is in a satisfactory condition and the systematic arrangement progressed favorably during the year, though on account of insuflicient space many difficulties

<<<Page: 110>>>

are encountered. The entering of the specimens returned to the Museum from the estate of E. D. Cope was completed.
In the division of fishes, the regular routine occupied most of the time. The equipment was improved by the addition of some new tanks, and a number of type-specimens were rebottled and placed with the special series of types.
In the division of mollusks, the arrangement of several families was revised, and a separate series was established for the fauna of the District of Columbia. The collection as a whole is reported as thoroughly accessible and in a good state of preservation.
The honorary curator of the division of insects, Dr. L. O. Howard, reports as follows regarding the insect collections:
The insect collections were never before so admirably arranged or so well preserved as they are to-day. This is due principally to the liberality shown the Division in furnishing so many of the standard insect drawers, and the specialists are now arranging the several orders as rapidly as possible in these drawers.
Doctor Dyar continues his excellent work in naming, arranging, and increasing the Lepidoptera, and deserves special mention for the great work he is doing for this order. It is mainly due to him that the national collection of these insects is now so large and in such splendid systematic order.
Mr. E. A. Schwarz, of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, is another who has contributed more than anyone else to increasing the insect collections in all orders. The Coleoptera, now under his charge, are probably not surpassed in any other museum in this country.
Mr. D. W. Coquillett, of the Department of Agriculture, contiiues his work on the Diptera and has made many additions to the collection of the past year. The Culicidee, or the mosquitoes, in the collection are worthy of special mention, as they have been enormously increased the past year in all stages of their development—from egg to wings—and the collection of these insects in the National Museum is probably unequaled in any other museum, except the British Museum.
Mr. Rolla P. Currie, during the present year, has been fully occupied in superintending and perfecting the collection of insects sent to the St. Louis Exposition, and _ should receive credit for the excellence of that exhibit. Such time, however, as he could spare from this and other work he has devoted to the Neuropteroid insects— Odonata, Neuroptera, and Trichoptera—and the collections of these insects will before a great while be in excellent order and arranged in the standard insect drawers.
Mr. A. N. Caudell, of the Department of Agriculture, has done some excellent work in arranging the Orthoptera, removed last year to Doctor Dyar’s room, and now virtually under his charge.
Doctor Ashmead continues his work on the Hymenoptera, and in the coming year hopes to have the whole order arranged in the standard insect drawers. He has published his generic revision of the order, except the ants, or the superfamily Formicoidea. The generic revision of the ants will probably be completed this autumn. He hasalso worked up all the Japanese and Philippine Hymenoptera now in the National Museum, and papers on these subjects will appear in the Proceedings of the Museum.
The great order Rhynchota still remains without a specialist to take care of it, and almost nothing has been done toward arranging and determining the rich collection of these insects now in the Museum.

<<<Page: 111>>>

In the division of marine invertebrates, a special cataloguer was employed for two and one-half months in bringing up the records of various series, especially the Hawaiian crabs and shrimps, the amphipods of the New England coast, identified by Dr. S. J. Holmes, and the isopods obtained during the investigation of the salmon fisheries of Alaska by the Bureau of Fisheries in 1903. Fifty-one sets of duplicates, each containing about 200 specimens, were distributed, together with several special sets of few specimens each.
As the Helminthological collections are without separate permanent quarters, no special action was taken in connection with them beyond the care required to keep them in good condition. They constitute, according to the custodian, Dr. C. W. Stiles, the finest collection for study purposes in the country.
The work done in the national herbarium is reported on as follows by Mr. F. V. Coville, honorary curator:
During the year we have added 64 standard insect-proof cases, making 312 now in use. In addition, we have added 5 half-units, making 12 now in use. Beside these, we have had constructed 17 three-fourths-unit cases, for storage purposes only. This gives us a total of 7,938 pigeonholes. No insects have been observed in these cases during the last six months, although they have been very bad in other parts of the herbarium. The entire herbarium is now stored in insect-proof cases, except the following groups: Lower cryptogams (exclusive of algze), the ferns and fern allies and the conifer.
Practically all the specimens which have been mounted during the year have been stamped and recorded. The number of specimens stamped and incorporated in the permanent herbarium since its transfer to the National Herbarium on July 1, 1894, is 241,000. Of these, 21,000 have been added the past year.
Owing to our small force, only a little work has been done toward stamping and recording the old part of the herbarium. Our record shows only 429 of these specimens stamped, all of which were loaned for study.
The specimens are recorded in large books, each one of which contains space for 5,000 names. Thirty-five of these have been closed and 13 are still open. Seven new books were opened during the year.
The following table shows the number of plants mounted during the last few years, exclusive of the lower cryptogams:
1808-996. . 22-2) was Ls Se eee 1b eee 22,556 1809-19000 20 es ee 2 ee ee 22,272 1900-1901. 1 ees se el ae ely en ee ee ae 18,117 T901=02. 5 once sc hee Ree SE i a ee 18, 000 1902-091 22.2 as see Se oe top A a SR re 21, 076 1908-04. ooo oo so ene ees aS AE pe a 29, 700
The number of specimens mounted, as is here shown, is 29,700. This is the largest number mounted during the last six years. This large number is due to the fact that some $400 was transferred to our account, which was used in mounting specimens. Of these plants, 21,900 were mounted by contract at a costfof $876, while 3,300 were mounted by the Department of Agriculture.
The rearrangement of the herbarium according to the Engler and Prantl sequence, to which reference was made in the last two annual reports, has been continued. | The work has continued from near the end of family No. 105, the Cruciferze, to the beginning of family No. 246, Gentianaceze.

<<<Page: 112>>>

The Museum continued, as in previous years, the custom of lending specimens to specialists engaged in scientific investigations. The activity in this direction among mammalogists was about the same as last year. Seventeen lots, comprising 316 specimens, were sent out to eight persons. Among the specimens were five types. The principal loan consisted of 244 bats, which were sent to Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of Philadelphia, who is engaged in the study of the American species of this order. Among the remaining classes of vertebrates the transactions of this kind were less numerous, amounting in all to nine or ten lots, comprising somewhat more than 50 specimens.
The loans of insects and lower invertebrates were far more numerous, amounting to more than 5,500 specimens in the case of the former. Among them the most extensive were 1,914 Coleoptera, sent to Dr. F. E. Blaisdell, of San Francisco, California; 1,709 Orthoptera to Mr. J. A. G. Rehn, of Philadelphia; 493 Rhynchota to Prof. P. R. Uhler, of Baltimore; and 440 Diptera, of the family Tabanide, to Prof. James S. Hine, of the Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.
The collections of marine invertebrates made during the investigation of the salmon fishery of Alaska by the Bureau of Fisheries in 1903, were sent to the following specialists for identification and report: Siphonostoma to Prof. Charles B. Wilson; Pyenogonida to Dr. Leon J. Cole; Schizopoda to Dr. A. E. Ortmann; Amphipoda to Dr. 8. J. Holmes; Cirripedia to Prof. H. A. Pilsbry. Doctor Ortmann also received the Schizopoda collected by the Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross in 1891, for use in connection with the report on the collection of 1902. A number of starfishes from Bering Seaand the Arctic Ocean were sent to Prof. A. E. Verrill for use in connection with his report on the starfishes of the Harriman Alaska Expedition. Several lots of actinians were sent to Dr. J. E. Duerden, who is preparing a report for the Bureau of Fisheries on the forms found in the Hawaiian Islands, and also on species held in the claws of certain crabs. Fifty bottles of surface towings from the Woods Hole region were sent to Dr. K. W. Genthe, from which to sort out copepod crustaceans for a report on that group.
The general collection of Cumacea was forwarded to Dr. W.. T. Calman of the British Museum for study.
Loans of plants from the National Herbarium were about as numerous as last year, comprising 43 lots, containing 2,873 sheets, as compared with 35 lots, containing 2,704 sheets, sent out in 1902-03. The principal loans were as follows:
To Dr. Janet Perkins, at the Berlin Botanical Garden, 1,150 Philippine plants; to Dr. B. L. Robinson, Gray Herbarium, Harvard University, 423 sheets of Mexican plants and specimens of Xyris and

<<<Page: 113>>>

Polygonum; to Dr. Theo. Holm, Brookland, District of Columbia, 277 sheets of Carex, Betula, Lychnis, etc.; to Mr. George R. Shaw, Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts, 212 specimens of pines; to Mr. Oakes Ames, 219 specimens of orehids.
As already stated, 51 sets of duplicate specimens of marine invertebrates were distributed during the year. These sets contain about 200 specimens each, representing from 92 to 99 species, and as many different groups as the nature of the material available permits. Of the 10,000 or more specimens, somewhat less than one-half went to high schools, and the remainder to various other public schools, and to universities, colleges, academies, seminaries, institutes, and museums. Eighteen States are represented in this distribution.
The bird collections have been very frequently consulted during the year by ornithologists from different parts of the country. The collections from the Western States were examined by Mrs. Vernon Bailey, of Washington City, who is revising her handbook of western birds. ‘The bluebirds and crested flycatchers were studied by Mr. E. W. Nelson, of the Biological Survey, in connection with a list of Mexican birds which he is preparing. Mr. H. C. Oberholser, of the same Bureau, made almost daily use of the collection in connection with his official work, and also for identifying birds sent in by various correspondents, and in preparing a report for the Museum on Doctor Abbott’s collection from Mount Kilima-njaro, East Africa. Prof. W. W. Cooke, another ornithologist of the Survey, examined the North American series in connection with his study of migrations. The entire study series was examined by Dr. R. M. Strong, of the University of Chicago, on points connected with his researches on the structure and color of feathers. The Nomenclature Committee of the American Ornithologists’ Union considered the validity of various species and subspecies of North American birds as represented in the collection. Dr. Jonathan Dwight, jr., examined the collection of North American gulls.
In the division of reptiles, Mr. W. P. Hay was given facilities for studying specimens of the diamond-back terrapins, on which he is preparing a report for the Bureau of Fisheries. Mr. Vernon Bailey spent several weeks in studying the reptiles of Texas.
The collection of fishes was frequently consulted by the ichthyologists of the Bureau of Fisheries, especially Messrs. Evermann, Kendall, Goldsborough, and Pope.
Mr. Ralph Arnold made a study of the Western American Pectinide, in connection with a monograph of the group which he has in contem

<<<Page: 114>>>

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. on
plation. Col. Thomas L. Caesy, U. 5. Army, made an investigation of the fossil and recent Pleurotonidee for aclassification of that family. Regarding the insect collections, Doctor Howard reports as follows:
Prof. J. B. Smith, of New Brunswick, New Jersey, W. D. Kearfott, of New York, Dr. W. J. Holland, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, Wm. Schaus, London, England, and others, have consulted the collection of Lepidoptera; John H. Emerton, of Boston, and Prof. R. VY. Chamberlain, of Cornell University, made use of the collection of Arachnid; ©. Schaeffer, of Brooklyn, Dr. Henry Skinner, of Philadelphia, and others, have made studies on our Coleoptera; several physicians have examined our collection of mosquito larvee. The Carnegie Institute has also had the use of our Polistx for the purpose of illustrating a paper on the American species.
Regarding investigation carried on in the national herbarium, Mr. Coville reports as follows:
Dr. E. L. Greene, of the Catholic University of America, has spent much time here engaged on various lines of systematic work. Dr. N. L. Britton, director of the New York Botanical Garden, has been a frequent visitor, being engaged with Mr. Rose in preparing a monograph of the North American genera of Crassulacexe, which will soon be published. Mr. Theo. Holm, of Brookland, District of Columbia, has frequently been here to examine our Carices. He has frequently borrowed material to take to his home, and we have had specimens sent on here for him to study. We have endeavored to give him every facility to carry on his work and to grant all requests consistent*with the Museum rules and regulations. Prof. KE. L. Morris, of the Washington High School, has been studying the genus Plantago, doing much of his work at the herbarium. We have borrowed several collections for him from other institutions. .
The following persons from the Department of Agriculture, in addition to those officially connected with the Division, have frequently consulted the herbarium: Mr. L. H. Dewey, Mr. V. K. Chestnut, Mr. W. F. Wight, Mr. C. L. Sheer, Mr. C. R. Ball, Mr. P. L. Ricker, Mr. C. F. Wheeler, Mr. C. V. Piper, Mr. Scofield.
While the preparations for the St. Louis Exposition occupied a portion of the time of nearly every member of the scientific staff, on the other hand the separate management of the exhibition work by a chief designated for that purpose more than compensated for the diversion. The scientific work accomplished during the year, therefore, showed no important diminution as compared with that of previous years. A complete list of papers published will be found under the heading ‘* Bibliography ”.
Work on the manual of the Birds of North and Middle America was continued by Mr. Ridgway without interruption during the year. Part 1 of this work was published in 1901 and part 2 in 1902. Part 3 was printed to page 472 and the manuscript for the remainder completed and sent to press. Of part 4, more than 700 pages of manuscript were made ready for the printer, and the work beyond that point is well inhand. Mr. Ridgway was assisted after January 1, 1904, by Mr..J. H. Riley, who prepared the necessary tables of measurements, etc.

<<<Page: 115>>>

Mr. Ridgway also published during the year two papers containing descriptions of 4 new genera and 29 new species and subspecies of American birds.
Lists of the birds collected by Doctor Abbott and Mr. C. B. Kloss on Anambas and Tambelans islands, China Sea, and at Tringanu, Malay Peninsula, were prepared by Doctor Richmond and sent to Mr. Kloss at his request. Doctor Richmond also completed the majority of identifications of the birds collected by Doctor Abbott on the islands off the west coast of Sumatra and published five notes on matters of zoological nomenclature.
Mr. J. H. Riley published three notes on birds of the Bahama Islands, meluding a description of a new nighthawk.
Dr. F. W. True submitted the manuscript of his memoir of the W halebone Whales of the Western North Atlantic for publication, and at the close of the year the entire work, consisting of about 300 pages, with 50 plates, had passed through the press. During the year he published four papers on cetaceans and a number of articles for the Encyclopedia Americana.
The study of Doctor Abbott’s collections of mammals from. the Malay Archipelago was continued by Mr. G. 5. Miller, jr., during the year. He published descriptions of 70 new species from these collections, including a new genus and 6 new species of monkeys, 2 new species of mouse-deer (7ragulus), and 6 new species of flying lemurs (Galeopithecus), etc. He published also descriptions of 4 additional species of Old World mammals, a note on the bat Auderma maculatum, and a paper on bats collected by Mr. William Palmer in Cuba. In addition, Mr. Miller continued work on a reclassification of the Cheiroptera. Dr. M.W. Lyon completed his study of the osteology of the hares and their allies, mentioned in last year’s report, and published an elaborate revision of the genera and subgenera, based on osteological characters.
Doctor Stejneger’s Herpetology of Porto Rico was published during the year in the Museum report for 1902. It is a comprehensive ane of 175 pages, with numerous illustrations. Doctor Stejneger continued his investigation of the reptile fauna of eastern Asia, and also worked up the collections obtained by Dr. Hugh M. Smith in Japan and by Mr. J. H. Riley in the Bahama Islands. The latter contained anew species of iguana, which was named Cyclura rileyt by Doctor Stejneger. He also published a description of a new snake from Florida and a new lizard from Texas, together with a report on the Fifth Zoological Congress, to which he was delegate.
A report on the fishes collected in the Bahama Islands by Mr. B. A. Bean for the Baltimore Geographical Society was prepared by him for the society. It included a list of 165 species, with notes on their habits, abundance, and uses. Mr. Bean also identified the collection

<<<Page: 116>>>

of fishes of the Nile made by the Senff Expedition of 1899, and published notes on collections from North Carolina and the Barbados.
Dr. William H. Dall completed reviews of the nomenclature of the Pupacea and of the history and classification of the Tritons and Frogshells, and alsoa summary of the recent and fossil land-shell fauna of the Bahamas. He also began a general review of the land and freshwater shells of Alaska and adjoining regions in Asia and North America. His publications on recent mollusks for the year consisted of descriptions of 13 new species from California, a new genus of Trochide from Hawaii, three notes on nomenclature, a note on the family Septide, and one on the relations of Gundlachia and Ancylus. He also published conjointly with Mr. Paul Bartsch the chapter on the Pyramidellide in Mr. Ralph Arnold’s Paleontology of San Pedro, California, a synopsis of the genera of the same family, a revision of Ampullaria, and a description of a new California species of er/ploma.
Mr. Bartsch continued work on the Pyramidellide, as noted in last year’s report, and published descriptions of new species of Se/ssurella and Sonorella, a note on Limax, and also an account of the herons living in the District of Columbia.
The bibliography of the staff of the Division of Insects (including the honorary officers) for the year comprises 114 titles. It is obviously impossible to mention so large a number in detail in this place, but a full list will be found under “Bibliography”. Dr. L. O. Howard published 16 papers, including one in the Yearbook of the Department of Agriculture for 1903 on silk culture. Doctor Ashmead’s papers number 20, the most extensive being a classification of the Chalcid flies, based partly on the collection of the National Museum and published by the Carnegie Museum of Pittsburg. It consists of 326 pages and 9 plates. Dr. H. G. Dyar’s entomological publications for the year number 31, among them being a paper of 160 pages on the Lepidoptera of the Kootenai District of British Columbia. Mr. D. W. Coquillett published 15 papers, including descriptions of new genera and species in Mrs. C. F. Baker’s reports on the Diptera of California. Mr. Nathan Banks’s publications on spiders were of equal number; among them one on Pliasmide of 23 pages, the spiders of Florida, containing a list of 279 species, of which 13 were new (28 pp.)-
Mr. Caudell published 14 papers, among them one on the Walkingsticks (Phasmide) of the United States (23 pp.), containing descriptions of a new subfamily, three new genera, and four new species. Mr. R. P. Currie published an account of an insect-collecting trip in British Columbia (14 pp.) and two other papers.
Dr. J. E. Benedict’s revision of the crustaceans of the genus Lepidopa, mentioned in last year’s report, was published in the Proceedings of the Museum, and he bas continued his studies of the

<<<Page: 117>>>

anomurans and published a paper on new albuneids. Miss M. J. Rathbun’s monograph of the fresh-water crabs (Potamonide) was completed and is in course of publication in the Archives of the Paris Museum of Natural History. She also continued work on the Hawaiian crabs. Her report on the decapod crustaceans of the northwest coast of North America (190 pp.) was published in the Harriman Alaska Expedition series. A report on isopod crustaceans of this region by Dr. Harriet Richardson was included in the same volume. Doctor Richardson published two other papers on isopods during the year.
Dr. C. W. Stiles, custodian of the helminthological collection, completed his investigation of the hookworm disease in the Southern States, and undertook an investigation of the ‘‘spotted fever.” He published two papers relating to parasites, and, in cooperation with Dr. Albert Hassall, the fourth, fifth, and sixth parts of an index catalogue of medical and veterinary zoology.
The titles of papers published by Dr. F. V. Coville, honorary curator of the national herbarium, are given in the Bibliography (Appendix Ill of this Report). Dr. J. N. Rose continued the study of the Crassulaceee, and expects soon to publish a monograph of that family conjointly with Dr. N. L. Britton. One preliminary paper on the family by these authors appeared during the year, in which eleven new genera and a large number of new species were described. Doctor Rose also published a description of a new species of Begonia. He was invited to join Doctor Britton in a work on the cactuses of North America, the investigations for which will occupy some four or five years. Mr. W. R. Maxon gave some time to the study of the ferns of the Philippine Islands.
Dr. Edward L. Greene was appointed honorary associate in botany June 1, 1904.
The Head Curator was appointed representative of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum for the Lewis and Clark Exposition, Portland, Oregon, 1905.
Dr. Leonhard Stejneger acted.as Head Curator of the Department from January to May, 1904. He was also appointed representative of the National Museum at the Sixth Zoological Congress, Berne, Switzerland. Mr. G. 8. Miller, jr., was also designated as a delegate to this congress.
Mr. F. A. Lucas, curator of the division of comparative anatomy, severed his connection with the staff of the Museum on June 30, 1904.
Dr. J. E. Benedict, assistant curator, was designated to act temporarily as chief of exhibits, on May 17, 1904,

<<<Page: 118>>>

Mr. J. H. Riley, aid, was transferred on December 30, 1903, from the section of birds’ eggs to the division of birds, to assist Mr. R. Ridgway in completing his Manual of the Birds of North and Middle America, and Mr. Edward Horgan was appointed temporarily in his place.
Mr. R. P. Currie, aid, division of insects, was transferred to the Department of Agriculture on June 30, 1904.
Mr. C. A. McKnew was appointed aid in the division of fishes on April 16, 1904.
Mr. F. A. Walpole, artist in the national herbarium, died May 11, 1904.
Mr. Henry Marshall, bird taxidermist, died May 26, 1904.
‘Mr. C. L. Pollard, assistant curator, division of plants, was given an extended furlough, beginning October ¥, 1903, to enable him to engage in temporary botanical work elsewhere.

<<<Page: 119>>>



<<<Page: 120>>>

By Grorce P. MERRILL, Head Curator.
The year 1903-04 compares favorably with those immediately preceding it in both the number and value of accessions. Indeed, when that acquired for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition is taken into consideration, the value of exhibition material received exceeds that of either of the two previous years. As, however, much of this has not yet been installed in the Museum collections, its full value can not be made apparent.
The total number of accessions received by the Department is shown in tabular form below, those of 1902-03 being also given for purposes of comparison:
Divisions and sections. 1903-04. | 1902-03. (CSO) DRE eta eat RO oe tect Sita Say SESS a oasis Sete wea cenS Sep oe Kt las, Say 371 ENTITLES Tra) ae See ioe eters tatiana = Sa a 6 eo cies a Scie Liana Sein cleieloteiase.ccmeisise estes 143 | 110 Invertebrate paleontology.:...-..---..---.--:--RPS yee Soe ole ecto eierwla ee aie Seaton 3 106 86 Merre prea respale mito lOoeyis souk cee bcc cdactis monies co)56e en's Que -mneocie sae oeeissen oe 45 22 HAMS ONO 3 oon aS bs OOOO RE ROO BAS CODE BOO O CEE Ce eee aan ete eae 19 15
Below is a list of the more important of the materials received: DIVISION OF GEOLOGY.
1. A series of 102 specimens of platiniferous rocks from the Demidoff Mines, Russia; gift of M. Juarez Sponville.
2. A magnificent mass of amethystine quartz, weighing some 400 pounds, from the extraordinary geode discovered a few years since in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, and described by Dr. G. F. Kunz in the Mineral Resources for 1901.
3. Aseries comprising 78 specimens of rocks, illustrating the occurrence and association of the diamond at the De Beers Consolidated Mines, Kimberley, South Africa. These came to the Museum as a gift from Mr. Gardner F. Williams, the manager of the mines, and the author of the work The Diamond Mines of South Africa.
7 97
NAT mus 1904

<<<Page: 121>>>

4. A series of 22 specimens of copper and its associations from Calumet, Michigan.
5. A large slab of polished rose quartz, some 33 by 39 by 5 inches, from the Black Hills of South Dakota.
6. A beautiful nugget of native silver; gift of Mr. A. L. Pellegrin, Nogales, Arizona.
7. A sample of diamond-bearing gravel with small diamond attached from Minas Geraes, Brazil; gift of Prof. O. A. Derby.
In addition, mention should be made of a fine series of opalized wood from near Logan, Montana, and a unique series of silicified geyser tubes from southwestern Wyoming (both collected for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition by the Head Curator); some large slabs of the peculiar porphyritic rock known as leopardite from near Salisbury, North Carolina, and of orbicular diorite from near Advance, in the same State; also of the various quadrangle series, comprising some 385 specimens, received from the U. 8. Geological Survey.
1. The largest accession of the year comprised some 600 specimens illustrating the occurrence and association of zeolites and other silisates in the trap rocks of New Jersey. The collection is remarkably complete and valuable for both study and exhibition purposes. It ‘ame to the Museum through the instrumentality of Dr. William S$. Disbrow, of Newark, New Jersey, to whom we have been indebted for much interesting material in years past.
Of historical interest, the division has also received from this same gentleman one of the first known crystals of American spodumene, forming one of the lot exhibited by Dr. Edward Hitchcock in New England in the early part of the last century.
2. An example of the recently discovered and described pink spodumene known locally as kunzite and utilized as gem material; the gift of Mr. F. M. Sickler.
3. A specimen of anglesite with sulphur on galena from Monte Poni. The material is of interest in showing the processes of oxidation and reduction in the same specimen.
4. A series of artificial stones used in the gem trade, including fine examples of pastes, doublets, triplets, and stones artificially colored; the gift of Mr. Oscar T. Johnasson.
). Cut turquoise from Idaho, Clay County, Alabama; the gift of Mr. Eugene A. Smith. .
6. A set of paste models showing the various forms in which gems
are cut.
7. Several important additions have been made to the meteorite collection, including examples of the Trenzano fall, weighing 163

<<<Page: 122>>>

grams; the Franceville, Missouri, iron, weighing 300 grams; the Mukerop, South Africa, iron, weighing 14,288 grams; and the Finnmarken pallasite, weighing 595 grams.
In addition is to be mentioned a large series of showy quartzes and caleites obtained by gift, collection, and purchase for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. This includes some magnificent smoky quartzes from Montana, the gift of Mr. A. P. Pohndorf and Mr. J. R. Wharton, beautiful agates, opals, and other materials which can not be described in detail until they are returned from the Exposition.
The permanent accessions in this division amount to something like 68,000 specimens, though, naturally, this includes much duplicate material.
1. The largest single accession includes some 40,000 reserve specimens transferred from the U.S. Geological Survey. These are for the most part determined, labeled, and arranged in zoological and stratigraphical order, and comprise the material which Dr. William H. Dall and his assistants have spent years in gathering and working up to its present high scientific value.
2. The Survey has also turned over to this Museum another very valuable, though in large part unworked, collection. This comprises a series of some 1,932 Tertiary insects, brought together by Dr. Samuel H. Scudder, besides many hundred original drawings, a great part of which are unpublished. Mr. Charles Schuchert reports that this transfer makes the Museum collection of fossil insects the largest in America, if not in the world.
3. Second only to the accessions mentioned above is the final portion of the EK. O. Ulrich collection. This embraces the mollusca and miscellaneous materials of this most valuable collection, and comprises no less than 15,000 reserve specimens and 500 lots of original types or illustrated specimens.
4. From the Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, Russia, through Dr. Frederich von Schmidt, was received as a gift an excellent suite of Lower Silurian Estland fossils. The material was selected by Mr. Schuchert while in Russia for the purpose of making correlations between the Russian and American faunas.
5. From the Zoological Museum of the University of Copenhagen, Denmark, through Prof. G. M. R. Levinson, there was received in the way of exchange a fine series comprising more than 100 specimens of identified European Mesozoic and Tertiary bryozoa.
6. From the Yale University Museum, through Dr. C. E. Beecher, was received as a gift a collection of 18 species, comprising 580 specimens, of Hamilton brachiopods, representing the various stages of

<<<Page: 123>>>

growth. This is a collection of more than ordinary value, because of the great care exercised by Doctor Beecher in the selection and mounting of the material.
7. From Mr. B. E. Walker, Toronto, Canada, as a gift, there was received a number of excellent cystids from the Silurian of Grimsby, Ontario.
8. For exhibition at St. Louis there were obtained, largely by purchase, an excellent series of Lower Devonian starfishes and crinoids, a large slab with many fine examples of Pentacrinus fossilis, a similar slab of Zrigonia clavata, several large ammonites, and an excellent series of Solenhofen invertebrate fossils.
1. The most important accession of the year was a specimen of the pterodactyl, Rhamphorhynchus phyllurus, showing the impression of the wing and tail membranes. This, as well as fine specimens of ichthyosaur and teleosaur (Stenosaurus) and a number of fishes typical of the fauna of the lithographic limestone, was purchased for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.
2. A cranium of ison alleni, presented by Mr. D. McLean, of Rampart city, Alaska, is important from the fact that it is the first specimen of this species obtained in Alaska, and because the horn material itself was preserved.
The only accessions of great importance in this department were:
1. One hundred aud ninety specimens from Mazon Creek, Illinois; Athens, Ohio; and other localities, which form a part of the Carl Rominger collection purchased a year ago. This collection is especially valuable as containing a fair representation of silicified trunks, particularly of the genera Dadowxylon and Psaronius. These were accompanied by a series of well-prepared microscopic sections.
2. One hundred and thirty-two specimens from the higher beds of the anthracite series, collected and presented to the Museum by Mr. C. W. Unger, of. Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
In the division of geology some 1,250 labels for the exhibition series have been printed and distributed; at least a thousand duplicates have been sorted out from the material that has been gradually accumulating for years past, labeled, wrapped, and sent to storage to be utilized for exchanges and future distribution; 8,632 catalogue, bibliographic, and title cards have been prepared; 1,041 slips written for the type catalogue; 1,530 catalogue entries made; copy for 612

<<<Page: 124>>>

labels prepared for the printer; 193 temporary labels prepared for the exhibition series; 2,140 slips for the reserve collections; 895 pages of manuscript of scientific material prepared; and 3,658 specimens have been permanently numbered in oil colors.
The entire lithological study series has been overhauled and a complete card catalogue made of the same.
The geological section across North America, referred to in my previous reports, has been completed and placed on exhibition against the south wall of the west-south range. This, it will be remembered, comprises a section on a scale of 2 miles to the inch, extending from the coast of North Carolina to that of California near San Francisco.
Upward of 300 thin sections of rocks have been prepared.
In the division of minerals the entire descriptive exhibition series has been overhauled and labeled. The work ona card catalogue of the mineralogical collection is progressing favorably, some 4,300 cards having been thus far prepared.
In the division of stratigraphic paleontology Mr. Schuchert reports that Mr. R. 5. Bassler has spent a large portion of ‘the fiscal year in the work of unpacking, labeling, and sorting specimens, and remounting the thin sections of bryozoa in the E. O. Ulrich collection. To this collection have now been added nearly all the other Museum bryozoa, the greater part of which are in an unworked condition.
During the year there have been put away in final Museum condition probably not less than a hundred thousand specimens. The exact number can not be given, since the Paleozoic collections have been growing at a remarkable rate. This growth is due largely to the purchase during the past three years of the Ulrich, Rominger, and Sherwood collections, besides much other material, not including such as comes to the Museum regularly from the U.S. Geological Survey and through the efforts of the departmental staff. The registering of these specimens, as well as the work of painting the numbers and making the cards, is now far behind, owing to the lack of sufficient assistance.
The work of preparing for distribution 500 school collections of invertebrate fossils, each comprising 30 to 60 specimens, is well in hand and will be completed during the first month of the coming year. The 500 collections will contain altogether not less than 60,000 specimens.
In the division of vertebrate paleontology a skull of a Diplodocus from the Marsh collections has been cleaned and mounted, and one of a Trachodon from Butler County, Montana, restored and remounted for exhibition purposes.
Two skulls of Ceratopsia, one the type of Triceratops calicornis and the other a fine specimen of a new genus of these great Dinosaurs, have been prepared for exhibition.

<<<Page: 125>>>

In the division of paleobotany the work of preparing the card catalogue of the Lacoe collection of fossil plants is progressing slowly.
The regular work of the Museum has been greatly interrupted during this period by preparation for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. The Curator of the Department was absent from Washington in connection with this work some ninety-one days of the year. During this time he made—
(1) A trip to the Pacific coast and back, going via Ishpeming, Michigan, and the Northern Pacific to Portland, Oregon, and returning by way of San Francisco; Ogden, and Salt Lake, Utah; Pocatello, Idaho; through Wyoming to Laramie, Denver, and the Black Hills of Dakota. (2) A trip into western Mexico in the vicinity of Bacubirito, State of Sinaloa, and (8) finally, a trip into the apatite, mica, and asbestos regions of Canada.
The purpose of the Mexican trip was to secure for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition a cast of the celebrated Bacubirito meteorite, the second largest known mass of meteoric iron in the world.
Mr. Wirt Tassin, of the division of mineralogy, made a trip into an interesting zeolite locality near Newark, New Jersey, and obtained much valuable material.
Mr. William C. Phalen made two trips into Virginia for the purpose of making collections and studying the unakite near Milams Gap, Virginia.
Mr. Schuchert was granted four months’ leave of absence in Europe, where considerable time was devoted to collecting Ordovician, Silurian, ‘Devonian, and Carboniferous fossils.
Messrs. W. H. Newhall, Charles Schuchert, Wirt Tassin, and the Head Curator were in St. Louis for periods varying from one to three weeks, engaged in the work of installing the exhibits of the Department. Dr. A. C. Peale was also on leave for a period of more than two months.
There have been sent out by the Department during the period coyered by this report, in the way of gifts and exchanges, some 64 lots, comprising 7,138 specimens.
In addition, material for study has been loaned to the individuals and institutions mentioned below:
Mr. John M. Clarke, of the New York State Museum; Prof. W. B. Clark, of Johns Hopkins University; Mr. S. F. Emmons, of the U.S. Geological Survey; Dr. A. Handlirsch, of the K. K. Naturhistorische Hofmuseum, Vienna; Prof. C. H. Hitchcock, of Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire; Prof. Edwin G. Kirk, of Columbia University, New York City; Dr. George F. Kunz, New York City; the American Museum of Natural History; Mr. P. EK. Raymond, New

<<<Page: 126>>>

Haven, Connecticut; and Mr. Frank Springer, of the Bureau of Standards, Washington City.
Portions of the collections of the Division of Geology have been studied by Dr. Thomas L. Watson, of Denison University, Granville, Ohio, in connection with the preparation of a report on the building stone of North Carolina.
Prof. H. F. Osborn has continued his work on the Titanotherium of the Marsh collection. Dr. J. B. Hatcher spent several weeks in the study of the Triceratops, and Mr. F. A. Lucas in the study of the Stegosaur remains.
In addition to the members of the U. S. Geological Survey, the following persons have studied the collections in Paleobotany:
‘Dr. Arthur Hollick, assistant curator of botany in the New York Botanical Gardens; the Rev. H. Herzer, of Marietta, Ohio; and Mr. E. W. Berry, of Passaic, New Jersey.
The condition of the collections as a whole is quite satisfactory, when everything is taken into consideration. In spite of numerous interruptions, due to the work of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, the general work of cataloguing and numbering has been carried on, and the records are being daily improved.
The exhibition series is kept constantly alive through the insertion of new material and the weeding out of that which is old and less desirable.
The section of vertebrate paleontology at present needs the largest share of attention. This is in part due to the fact that the work of preparation of vertebrate material is slow, laborious, and necessarily expensive. The Claosaurus mount, which was reported as nearly complete at the close of the last fiscal year, is now installed against the south wall of the southeast court.
The exhibition series has been increased by the addition of a fine skull of a new genus of Ceratopsia and skulls of a Diplodocus and Trachodon, the latter from Butler County, Montana; also a mounted skeleton of Syornis casuarinus from New Zealand.
It was hoped that we might be able to report fair progress in the way of mounting a Triceratops, but numerous events, including the resignation of a preparator, have conspired to prevent this.
The collection of bryozoa, which has been already referred to, is reported by Mr. Schuchert as occupying nearly 150 standard drawers and comprising what is probably the most important collection of its kind extant. This is indicated by the number of types and illustrated specimens, of which there are some 620 different lots or species.
The exhibition collections in all the divisions, with the exception of that of vertebrate paleontology, are as full as available space will permit.

<<<Page: 127>>>

The study collections are, as a rule, in a fairly satisfactory condition, although much remains to be done to bring the records up to date.
In the division of stratigraphic paleontology much yet must be done to complete the records relating to the Ulrich, Rominger, and Sherwood collections. It is estimated that at the present rate of progress at least two years will be required to complete this work.
The routine work of the Museum, taken in connection with that of preparing for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, has greatly interfered with research work on the part of the Museum force. The Head Curator published but little. He has, however, supervised the work of an economic survey in North Carolina, having particular reference to the building and ornamental stones of the States, and has acted in the capacity of expert special agent in charge of Report on Stone Quarries in connection with the census. “He has prepared reports in both instances, but they have not yet been published.
Mr. William C. Phalen has studied and described the rocks of the Nugsuaks Peninsula, in Greenland, and an occurrence of unakite near Milams Gap, Virginia.
Mr. Wirt Tassin reports some eighteen analyses made looking toward the identification of little-known material; he has also studied and described a meteorite from Persimmon Creek in North Carolina.
Mr. R. 8. Bassler has continued his studies on the Rochester shale bryozoa, a work which he hopes to complete during the coming year.
Mr. E. O. Ulrich, in conjunction with Mr. Bassler, has completed two papers on Paleozoic bryozoa.
Miss Elvira Wood, of the U.S. Geological Survey, has prepared a paper treating of all the Middle Devonian crinoids in the Museum collections.
The Department of Geology has suffered severely through resignations, due in nearly every instance to insufficient salaries.
Mr. Alban Stewart, preparator in the section of vertebrate paleontology, resigned on March 12, last. His place has been filled, temporarily, by Mr. C. W. Gilmore.
Messrs. R. 8. Bassler and William C. Phalen resigned on May 9 and 15, respectively, to accept positions with the U.S. Geological Survey.
Mr. Charles Schuchert has accepted the position of professor of paleontology in Yale University, though his resignation has not yet taken effect.
Mr. F. A. Lucas, of the Department of Biology, who has been in charge of the collections of vertebrate fossils, has also severed his connection with the Museum.

<<<Page: 128>>>

THE MuSsEUM STAFF.
S. P. Lanaury, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Keeper Ex-officio. RicHarp Rarupun, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. 8. National Museum. W. ve C. Ravenet, Administrative Assistant.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: Otis T. Mason, Acting Head Curator. (a) Division of Ethnology: Otis T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hough, Assistant Curator; J. W. Fewkes, Collaborator. (L) Division of Physical Anthropology: A. HUrdlicka, Assistant Curator. (c) Division of Historic Archeology: Paul Haupt, Honorary Curator; Cyrus Adler, Honorary Assistant Curator; I. M. Casnowicz, .Aid. (d) Division of Prehistoric Archeology: W.H. Holmes, Honorary Curator; J. D. MeGuire, Collaborator. (e) Division of Technology: George C. Maynard, Assistant Curator. (f) Division of Graphic Arts: Paul Brockett, Custodian. Section of Photography: T. W. Smillie, Custodian. (g) Division of Medicine: J. M. Flint, U. 8. Navy (Retired), Honorary Curator. (h) Division of Historic Religions: Cyrus Adler, Honorary Curator. (i) Division of History: A. H. Clark, Honorary Curator; Paul Beckwith, Assistant Curator. DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY: Frederick W. True, Head Curator. (a) Division of Mammals: Frederick W. True, Curator; G. 8. Miller, Jr., Assistant Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, Jr., Aid; Walter L. Hahn, Aid. (b) Division of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assistant Jurator; J. H. Riley, Aid. Section of Birds’ Eggs: William L. Ralph, Honorary Curator; K. J. Horgan, Aid. (c) Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: -~Leonhard Stejneger, Curator; R. G. Paine, Aid. (d) Division of Fishes: Tarleton H. Bean, Honorary Curator; Barton A. Bean, Assistant Curator; C. A. McKnew, Aid. (e) Division of Mollusks: William H. Dall, Honorary Curator; Paul Bartsch, Aid; William B. Marshall, Aid. (f) Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, Honorary Curator; W. H. Ashmead, Assistant Curator; R. P. Currie, Aid. Section of Hymenoptera: W. H. Ashmead, in charge. Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, Custodian. 105

<<<Page: 129>>>

DePARTMENT OF Brotocy—Continued. (f) Division of Insects—Continued. Section of Diptera: D. W. Coquillett, Custodian. Section of Coleoptera: E. A. Schwarz, Custodian. Section of Lepidoptera: H. G. Dyar, Custodian. Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian. (g) Division of Marine Invertebrates: Richard Rathbun, Honorary Curator; J. E. Benedict, Assistant Curator; Mary J. Rathbun, Assistant Curator; Harriet Richardson, Collaborator. Section of Helminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian. (h) Division of Comparative Anatomy: Frederic A. Lucas, Curator. (i) Division of Plants (National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Honorary Curator; J. N. Rose, Assistant Curator. Section of Forestry: B E. Fernow, Honorary Curator. Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, Honorary Assistant Curator; W. R. Maxon, Aid. Section of Higher Algee: W. T. Swingle, Custodian. Section of Lower Algee: G. T. Moore, Custodian. Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian. Associates in Zoology (Honorary): Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam, R. E. C. Stearns. Associate in Botany (Honorary): Edward L. Greene. DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY: George P. Merrill, Head Curator. (a) Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied): George P. Merrill, Curator; W. H. Newhall, Aid. (b) Division of Mineralogy: F. W. Clarke, Honorary Curator; Wirt Tassin, Assistant Curator; Rey. L. T. Chamberlain, Honorary Custodian of Gems and Precious Stones. (c) Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles D. Walcott, Honorary Curator; Charles Schuchert, Assistant Curator. Section of Vertebrate Fossils: F. A. Lucas, Acting Curator. Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, Charles Schuchert, Custodian; Carboniferous, George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton, Custodian; Cenozoic, W. H. Dall, Associate Curator; Madreporarian Corals, T. Wayland Vaughan, Custodian. Section of Paleobotany: Lester F. Ward, Associate Curator; A. C. Peale, Aid; F. H. Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants; David White, Custodian of Paleozoic Plants. Associate in Paleontology (Honorary): Charles A. White.
Chief of Correspondence and WgeE DRE R. I. Geare. Librarian, Cyrus Adler.
Assistant Librarian, N. P. Scudder.
Disbursing Clerk, W. W. Karr.
Superintendent of Construction and Labor, J. 8. Goldsmith. Editor, Marcus Benjamin.
Photographer, T. W. Smillie.
Registrar, 8. C. Brown.
Property Clerk, W. A. Knowles.

<<<Page: 130>>>

List oF AcceEsstons, 1903-04.
Apsott, Dr. W. L., Singapore, Straits
' Settlements: A very extensive, interesting, and yaluable collection of ethnological specimens, including many unique objects from various islands off the western coast of Sumatra, and a large variety of natural history material, including many new and rare species from the same localities (41342); also a large collection of natural history specimens, containing mammals, birds’ skins, birds’ nests and eggs, birds’ skeletons, reptiles, insects, and skeletons of different animals, besides many hundreds of ethnological objects in daily use among the inhabitants of the Rhio-Linga Archipelago (42168).
ABRAHAM, Louris, Washington, D. C.: Six watch movements. 42468.
ABREU, Rosati, Polotina, Cerro, Habana, Cuba: Leaf and fruit of a plant from Cuba. 41675.
Acker, Dr. G. N., Washington, D. C.: |
Brains of white and colored children
(41792; 42101; 42466; 42549; 42864). Apams, C. C.
University of. )
(See under Michigan,
ApaAms, Mrs. Frank, Mount Dora, Fla.: Two specimens of Callitris robusta. 42607.
Apams, Henry, Mason City, W. Va.: Three archeological specimens. 41242.
Apams, Dr. S. 8., Washington, D. C.: Brain of a negro child (42034); brain of a white child (42340).
Apams, Wauuace, U. S. National Museum: Paroquet, Conuwrus hemorrhous. 42306.
ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA, Royal Geographical Society of Australasia. Received through Mr. Thomas 8. Reed: Fiftynine impressions of leaves and ferns; also a description of the process. 42192.
AGRICULTURE, BurEAU oF, Manila, P. I. (See under Philippine Islands, Manila, Bureau of Agriculture. )
AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT oF, Hon. James Wilson, Secretary: Received through the Biological Survey, 90 birds’ eggs and 5 nests, collected by Messrs. E. W. Nelson, E. A. Goldman, F. Stephens, W. H. Osgood, L. A. Fuertes, H. ©. Oberholser, and J. F. Gant, in various parts of North America during the year 1903 (41350); 5 specimens of Ashmunella chiricahuana Dall from Capitan Mountains, New Mexico (41566); received through the Biological Survey, 8 fresh-water crabs from Guerrero, Mexico, collected by Messrs. Goldman and Nelson (41925); received through Dr. John R. Mohler, Bureau of Animal Industry, two dogs’ skulls (42033); skull of a black and tan terrier (42052) ; through Dr. L. O. Howard, 14 insects and other specimens (42150); 1,554 specimens of miscellaneous insects collected by Messrs. D. W. Hunter, W. E. Hinds, J. H. Harris, and A. W. Morrill in Texas (42151); specimen of flax fiber trom New Zealand (42483); 4,500 specimens of insects, principally Coleoptera from Cayamas, Cuba, collected by Dr. E. A. Schwarz (42622); 99 specimens of Coleoptera from Brazil (42623); meteorological instruments and apparatus from the Weather Bureau (42625) ;

<<<Page: 131>>>

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF—Cont’d. 25 specimens of land shells collected by Mr. J. H. Gant in Oklahoma (42755); 375 insects collected by Dr. L.O. Howard in Mexico, consisting of Hymenoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera, Hemiptera, Orthoptera, Odonata, and Chrysopa (42759). Material deposited in the National Herbarium: Fourteen plants from various parts of the United States (41261); 15 plants from the vicinity of Portland, Oreg., collected by Mr. E. P. Sheldon (41265); 74 plants collected in Lipscomb, Tex., by Mr. Arthur Howell (41280); 26 plants collected by Mr. Howell in Texas (41333); through the Biological Survey, 2 plants from Arizona collected by Mr. Vernon Bailey (41395); through the Division of Plant
Industry, 2 specimens of lichens from |
Europe (41411); 2 specimens of Hoffmanseggia from Oklahoma collected by Mr. R. G. Dunlap (41492); plant from Missouri (41510); plant from Louisiana collected by Mr. W. R. Dodson (41511); received through the Division of Agrostology, 342 plants from Algeria, obtained by purchase from Mr. L. Chevallier, Precigné, Sarthe, France (41597); plants collected in New Mexico and Oklahoma by Mr. F. G. Plummer (41700); 165 plants from New Mexico collected by Mr. Vernon Bailey (41888) ; type specimen of Abies (42091); 2 specimens of Ribes collected by Mr. F. V. Coville at Kew Gardens, England (42122); 17 specimens of Ribes from Germany and France (42161); 6 plants from Arizona collected by Dr. C. Hart Merriam (42185); 7 plants from California collected by Dr. C. Hart Merriam (42246); specimen of Abies collected by Mr. Vernon Bailey in New Mexico (42315);
2 plants from Porto Rico (42391); 10°
plants from Texas collected by Mr. Vernon Bailey (42405); 4 plants from California obtained by Dr. C. Hart Merriam (42406); plant from Paraguay, collected by Mr. J. N. Ruffin (42512); 2 plants from California collected by Dr. B. EK. Fernow (42525); 8plantsfrom California collected by Miss Alice Eastwood (42630); 8 plants from Alabama
ALBANY MuSsEuUM.
ALLEN, Dr. J. A.
ALTAMIRANO, Dr. FERNANDO.
| AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF—Cont’d.
collected by Mr. 8. M. Tracy (42631); herbarium specimens of woody plants (42670); 2 plants from Ohio collected by Mr. J. L. Reid (42820); 9 plants from various localities (42841); 2 specimens of Ribes from Minnesota and Georgia (42848); through the Biological Survey, 19 plants from Oklahoma collected by Mr. J. H. Gant (42852); 15 plants from Oregon collected by Mr. C. V. Piper (42894); 10 plants from Colorado collected by Miss E. W. Cathcart (42898) ; 6 specimens of cactus from near Emma, Tex., collected by Mr. F. V. Coville (42899).
(See also under: Baker, C. F.; Blankinship, J. M.; Dugés, Dr. A.; Fisher, H. L.; Fredholm, A.; Gant, J. EL ‘Gailosiva <a; aise Eee Hayes, W. R.; Hummel, Gustave; Pearsall, R: F.; Perkins, R: C€: ii: Piper, C. V.; Prey, Nina; Simms, Mrs. Thomas; Singer, G. P.; Sias, A. W.; Tullock, A. E.; Wilcox, G. B.; Wilcox, 1DYey 13 1D)
(See under Grahamstown, South Africa. )
Aupers, A., Cincinnati, Ohio: Specimens
42417. (See under American
Museum of Natural History, New York City. )
of fossil ostracods.
ALLEN, O. D., Ashford, Wash.: Six plants
from Washington (41359, 41832).
Auuison, ANDREW, Slidell, La., and Iuka,
Miss.: Reptiles, a skin and skull of a bat (42891, 42706).
(See under Mexico, City of, Instituto Medico Nacional. )
AutToraR, ANDREW, Washington, D. C.:
Larva of Elm sawfly, Cimbex americana Leach. 42849.
Atwoop, Prof. W. BY. Blacksburg, Va.:
Miscellaneous specimens of insects.
41747.
ENTOMOLOGICAL COMPANY, Brooklyn, N. Y.: Received through
George Franck, manager. Nineteen specimens of Coleoptera. 42132.

<<<Page: 132>>>

AMERICAN GEM AND PEARL COMPANY, New York City: Twenty-two gems (purchase) L. P. X. (42601); received through Mr. Lucien M. Zell, manager, gummite from Mitchell County, N. C.; also specimens of topaz and amethyst (gift) (42602).
AMERICAN Museum oF NaturaAt Hisrory, New York City: Received through William Beutenmiller, 7 specimens, including 2 types of Lepidoptera (exchange) (41756); Prof. H. F. Osborn, 2 casts of feet of a fossil horse representing the species
Neohipparian whitneyi (exchange) (42428); received through Dr. J. A, Allen, mammal skins and skulls and a skeleton (exchange) (42530); 16 plants collected by Miss Constance Dubois in California (gift) (42657); window trans-
| ARNHEIM, J. received through |
Antuony, R. A., New York City: Eleven photographs of Niagara Falls and vicinity. 42236.
APPLETON, NatHan, New York City: Oil painting by Etex, representing a scene from the ‘‘Gentleman of France.’’ 42397.
ARCHIBALD, W. S., Norfolk, Va.: Three specimens of Purple finch, Carpodacus purpureus. 42176.
S., San Francisco, Cal.:
Eight specimens of land and marine
shells, representing 7 species from vari-
ous localities. 41554.
| ARNoLD ARBORETUM, Jamaica Plain, Mass.: Forty-one specimens of Cratzgus. Exchange. 42415.
| ARNOLD, Dr. RALPH.
arencies illustrating the ‘‘Spine”’ of | Pp g Pp
Mount Pelé (gift) (42781).
AMERICAN RuTILE Company, Washington, D. C.: Received through William M. Slater, president. Specimen of titanium carbide. 42401.
Ames, Oakes, North Easton, Mass.: Type specimen of Habenaria sanbornii from Cuba (gift) (41734); 24 species of ferns and fernallies principally from
Florida (gift) (42388); 103 plants from |
various sections of the United States (exchange) (42488).
Anperson, E. M., Provincial Museum, Victoria, B. C.: One hundred and seventy-seven specimens of Lepidoptera (41611; 41865; 42424).
Anperson, J. R., Department of Agriculture: Two plants from British Columbia. 41392.
ANDERSON, R. W., Wando, S. C.: Six
plants and three snakes from South >
Carolina (42482; 42708).
ANDERTON, Mrs. I. W., Mackay, Idaho: Three teeth of a horse and two teeth of a fossil bison. 42438.
AnprREws, Byron, Washington, D. C.: |
Thirty-five skulls of the Arctic fox (purchase) (42179); skull of an Arctic fox (gift) (42250).
(See under Dr. J. J. Rivers. )
ARRONDELLE Sows, E., Paris, France: Plaster casts of the column of Hamourabi and of the circular monument of Telle; also of the head of Mercure (Discobole) Lancelotti. Purchase. L. P. X. 42435.
AsHMEAD, Dr. W. H. S. Matsumura. )
(See under Prof.
Arrwater, H. P., Houston, Tex.: Skin and skull of a. jaguar. Purchase. 42609.
Arwoop, 8. H., &Co., Plattsmouth, Nebr.: Limestone with flint inclosures from a quarry at Wymore, Nebr. 42099.
AUSTRALIAN OpaL Company, New York
City: Specimen of Australian opal (41406); 3 opals in silicified wood from Australia (42600). Purchase. Wg dee OS
Bagsoock, CHar.es, Ithaca, N. Y.: Specimen of weathered French Caen stone from Ithaca: Exchange. 42564.
Bascock, E. B., Berkeley, Cal.: Two plants from California. 41325.
| Bascock, Mrs. P. H., Mount Dora, Fla.:
Three specimens of Bignonia. 42283.
Bacue, René, Washington, D. C.: Seven photographs illustrating Indian technical industries. 41704.
BacutEeL, W. L., Joplin, Mo.: Three specimens of calcite. Purchase. 42698.

<<<Page: 133>>>

Bacorn, Mr., Cable, Mont.: Ores and minerals from Cable «mine, Cable, Mont. 41624.
Baawett, I. C., Stephenville, Tex.: |
Specimens of Longicorn beetle, Neoclytus capre Say. 42266.
BAHAMA ExpepiTion, Baltimore, Md.: | Collection of mammals, birds, reptiles, | fishes, mollusks, marine invertebrates, |
and corals made by Messrs. J. H. Riley and B. A. Bean in the Bahama Islands during June and July of 1903. 41471.
Bartey, VerRNon, Department of Agriculture: Specimen of Rhodiola from New Mexico. 42005. (See also under Department of Agriculture and W. L. Brav. )
Barn, H. F., U. 8. Geological Survey: Three specimens of fluospar from Roseclare, Ill. 42200.
Bairp, Capt. G. W., U. 8. Navy. (See under War Department. )
Baker, Prof. C. F., Stanford University, Cal.: Pomona College, Claremont, Cal. : Three plants from California (41284); 78 plants from Nevada (41288) ;« 48 plants from California (41296); 490 plants from California (41319); crabs, including the species Hemigrapsus nudus (Dana); Petrolisthes rupicolus Stimpson; Epialtus productus Randall; Pagurus granosimanus Stimpson; Hemigrapsus oregonensis (Dana); Areneus meaicanus (Gerstecker) (41442); 148 specimens of Diptera from Mexico, Central America, and other localities (41498); 2 plants from California (41910); 43 specimens of Diptera (41930); fishes from San Pedro and Stanford University, California (42260); 13 specimens of Diptera (42275); 471 plants from Nicaragua (42284);@ 34 specimens of Lepidoptera (42355); 8
butterflies (42419); 2 species of Helices” from Catalina Island (42478); crus|
taceans from southern California (42492); 16 specimens of Lepidoptera, also larvee (42521); 3 specimens of
Lepidoptera (42538); received through |
Department of Agriculture, 88 speci-
mensof Diptera from California (42651); |
Baker, Prof. C. F.—Continued. 2 specimens of Hmerita analoga (Stm. ) | (42677); 6 plants from Central America (42803); 395 specimens of Diptera from California (42829).
Baker, Dr. F.: Six specimens of marine shells from California (42056) ; specimen of Ooula lactea Sby., from the Philippine Islands (42683).
Baker, T. M., Washington, D. C.: Shoemaker’s foot measure. (Loan.) 8765.
BatpripGr, Mrs. Marta, Los Angeles, Jal.: Two specimens of Ocinebra barbarensis Gabb., from San Pedro, Cal. 42839.
Bautpwin, W. T., East Bradford, ° Va.: Specimen of Lepidodendron scobiniform Meek. 41784.
Batt, Mrs. Pauta, Los Angeles, Cal.: Specimen of Tylodina fungina Gabb. (alcoholic specimen); also 4 shells of Pleurotomidee from Laguna beach, Los Angeles County. 41830.
Banks, NatHan, Department of Agriculture: Six specimens of Hemiptera, including Fulvius heidemanni Reut., and Ploaria errabunda Say (gift) (41457); 10 specimens of Brachynemurus versutus Walker, from Mexico (gift) (41656); 20 specimens of Myrmelionidee (purchase) (41746).
Barser, H.8., U.S. National Museum: Three specimens of Polygyra columbiana from Eureka, Cal. (41304); frog (Rana sylvatica) from near Plummers Island, Maryland (41485); bat from California (41763); bat (Lasiurus borealis) (41862) ; plant from Texas (42873); rattlesnake (Crotalus tigris) from Arizona (41960); 5 specimens of Lasiwrus from Brownsville, Tex. (42892). See also under Washington Biologists Field Club. )
Barper, M. D. Knoxville, Tenn.: Ten specimens of land and _ fresh-water shells from Tennessee (41443); 11 specimens of fresh-water mollusks (41796); 11 species of fresh-water shells (42222). ;
| Barney, Lieut. J. P. (See under Brig. Gen. W. H. Carter, U. S. Army.)
4 Purchase.

<<<Page: 134>>>

Barrotr, A. F., Owego, N. Y.: Three arrow points found in Tioga County. 41543.
BARTLETT, H. H., Indianapolis, Ind.: |
Snake ( Coluber obsoletus), from Marion County, Ind. 42529.
Barron, JOHN, Washington, D. C.: Bill found in circulation in the Philippine Islands. (Loan.) 8874.
Bartscu, Pau, U. S. National Museum: Set of negatives showing Gould’s types of Western American Pyramidellide
_and Pecten herricens: also figures of some the duplicates of Pyramidellids of the
Reigen collection (42204); about 200 | specimens of land and marine shells | from Hampton, Cape Charles City, and |
Brighton, Va. (42308) ; 2 specimens of
fungus representing the species Crypto-—
porus volvatus from the District of Co-
lumbia (42617); 3 salamanders from | District of Columbia (42696); 2 speci|
mens of Cranefly, Linnobia species, from Great Falls, Md. (42724). (See
also under Department of Commerce | and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries and |
Gerrit S. Miller, jr. ) BasHore, Hrram, Mifflintown, Pa.: Mole
(Scalops aquaticus). 41829.
Bares, Dr. E. N., Boston, Mass.: Twentysix gun flints. 41229.
Bares, M. A., Clanton, Ala.: Product of |
natural weathering. (Loan.) 8888.
Batries, Mrs. J., Washington, D. C.: Specimen of Long-sting, Thalessa lunator Linneeus. 41458.
Bauscu, Paut, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of NXylotrya fimbriata Jeffr. from Texas. 42629.
Bra, W. J., Lloyd, Tex.: Neuropteroid |
insect representing the species Acanthaclisis americana Drury. 41449.
Bean, B. A., and C. A. McKnew, U. S$. National Museum: Fishes and crusta-
Bran, B. A. dition. )
(See under Bahama Expe-
U. S. Marine Corps, |
BecxwitH, Dr. E. G., Fostoria, Ohio: Larva of a beetle representing the species Tenebrio molitor Linnzeus. 42020.
Beckwith, P. E., U. 8. National Museum: Silver coin, a lira 1863 of Victor Emanuel the Second, King of Italy (gift) (41444); full-dress uniform of a lieutenant-colonel in the Continental Army (exchange) (41462); silver threepence, the first issue of King Edward VII of Great Britain (gift) (41873); flintlock pistol made by Miles, of London, with a bayonet (gift) (42206); trumpet kazoo (gift) (42256); copy of the Missouri Republican, January 1, 1864, containing the chronology of the year 1863; also invitation and card to the unveiling of the Sherman statue (gift) (42597).
BeecHer, Dr. C. E. (See under Yale University Museum. )
Bruit, Miss A. A., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen of an insect known as ‘‘ Walkingstick,’’? from Eagle Lake, Michigan. 41577.
Bett, A. Berniz, Cairns, Queensland, Australia: Three -hundred and thirtytwo specimens of Lepidoptera. Purchase. 41584.
Bett Company, GEorGE, Denver, Colo.:
Seven specimens of minerals. Purchase. L. P. X. 41635.
| Benepict, Dr. J. E., U. S. National Mu-
seum: Five plants from Maryland collected by Messrs. Benedict and Oldys. 41260.
Benepict, J. E., jr., Woodside, Md.: Specimen of Adiantum pedatum. 41416.
Benezet, G. P., Peoria, Ill.: Beetle (Sipha americana). 41352.
| BENHAM INDIAN TRADING Company, New
York City: Four baskets and twosashes. Purchase. L. P. X. 42507.
Bercer, A., La Mortola, Ventimiglia, Italy: Thirty-one plants from Italy. Exchange. 42687.
| Beruwn, Germany, Konigliches Botanceans collected at Beaufort, N.C. 42896.
isches Museum: Seven hundred and sixteen plants collected by Mr. H. A. Braun. Exchange. 42287.

<<<Page: 135>>>

BERLIN, GERMANY, KOonigliches Museum fir Naturkunde. Received through Dr. Paul Matschie. Specimen of Tragulus from Singapore. Exchange. 41519.
BERLIN, GERMANY, Konigliches Museum fiir V6lkerkunde: Received through Dr. Eduard Seler. ter casts (exchange) (42733); 7 GreecoRoman plaster casts (purchase.) L. P. X. 42734.
Bernpt, KE. L. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
BERNICE Pavant Bishop Museum, Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands: Received through Mr. W. T. Brigham. Double calabash and 16 capa-markers. Exchange. 41979.
Berry, 8. S., Redlands, Cal.: Ten species
of marine shells from near Avalon, Cat|
alina Island (41560); 2 shells from California (42660).
Bessac, F. T., Natchez, Miss.: Beetle |
(Lucanus elephas Fabricius). 41384.
seum of Natural History, New York
City: Cotypes of Cychrus xneicollis and |
Platynus gracileutus Beutenmiller. 41640. seum of Natural History. )
Bezzi, Prof. M., Sondrio, Italy: Two hundred and fifty-three specimens, 97 species, of European Diptera. 42427.
BIEDERMANN, C. R., Florence, Ariz.: Insects (41237); 15 beetles (42044).
BiaEtow, E. F., Stamford, Conn.: Specimens of Psyllid galls on Celtis (41253) ; specimen of Saddleback caterpillar (41612. )
BroLoGicaL LABORATORY, U. 8S. National Museum: Plaster castofacobra. 42552.
Bitrenspau & Co., Neucestown, Tex.: Twelve specimens of Nysius angustatus Uhler. 42692.
Buake, W. W., Mexico, Mexico: Ancient Mexican greenstone carving representing a sacrificial yoke. Purchase. L. P. X. 41399.
Buaney, Dwient, Boston, Mass.: Collection of shells dredged near Mount Desert Island, Maine, by the donor, in-
Greeco-Roman plas|
(See also under American Mu-
Buianey, Dwicur—Continued. cluding about 290 specimens representing 40 species. 42175.
Buiankinsuip, J. M., Bozeman, Mont. Received through the Department of Agriculture. Fifty-eight plants from Montana. 42245,
BuATcHLey, Prof. W. §., State Geologist, Indianapolis, Ind.: Eighty-four specimensof Orthoptera. Exchange. 42650.
Boum, Juuius, Vienna, Austria: Specimen of meteoric stony iron from Finnmarken, weighing 595 grams. Exchange. 41771.
Bouiincer, W. A., Washington, D. C.: Seven-dollar bill of North Carolina, dated April 2, 1776. 41867.
Botron, A. L., Berkeley, Cal.: Birds’ skeletons and the skull of a coyote. 41274.
Bonn, Frank, Washington, D. C.: Piece of a tree engraved with ancient letters, figures, etc. 43857.
2 . JBE 3 is : Ke yBEUTENMULLER, WiLL1AM, American Mu| Bouser, E., Paris, France: Egg of py
ornis maximus. Purchase. L. P. X.
41257.
BouLanceEr, E., Paris, France: Two specimensof mushroom spawn from France. 41820.
Boyce, THomas E., Middlebury, Vt.: Chips cut by a beaver. 42446.
Boyp, G. 8., Honduras, Central America: Specimens of pottery from Central America. (Loan.) 9150.
Braprorp, Mrs. Sipney, Avery Island, La.: Plants, roots, and nuts, representing material from which the Chetimacha Indians make their red, yellow, and black dyes (42815); 2 plants from Louisiana (42821).
BraKkELEY, J. TurRNER, Hornerstown, N. J.: Larvee of three species of mosquitoes (42624); larvae of Culex melanurus Coquillett (42640; 42652); four pupal skins and four adults of a dipteron representing the species Corethra cinctipes Coquillett (42681); larvee, pupe, and adult mosquitoes principally representing the species Culex auwrifer Coquillet (42805).

<<<Page: 136>>>

Salts!
Brancu, H. G. Setwyn, Antigua, British West Indies: Fifty-six bats and 323 birds’ skins from Barbuda and Antigua. Purchase. °42688.
Branp, H. J., San Francisco, Cal.: Plaster bust of President William McKinley. (Loan.) 8824.
BRANDEGEE, T. 8., San Diego, Cal.: Two plants from California. 42086. (See also under C. A. Purpus. )
Branson, E. B., (See under Prof. 8. W. Williston.
Braun, H. A. (See under Berlin, Germany, Kdonigliches Botanisches Museum. )
Braunton, Ernest, Glendale, Cal.: Sixtynine plants from California (41335; 42593; 42798).
BRAVERMAN, M., Visalia, Cal.: Three small Japanese baskets, and skeleton of a snake. 42582.
Bray, W. L., University of Texas, Austin, Tex.: Received through Mr. Ver-
non Bailey. Three specimens of wood from Texas. 42606.
Breric, G. M., New Milford, Conn.:
Specimen of rock quartz from a quarry |
near Branchyille. 42074.
Brezina, Dr. AristipEs, Vienna, Austria:
A fragment of the ‘‘Trenzano’’ meteorite weighing 164 grams. Exchange.
41396.
Briceno, Satomon, Merida, Venezuela: Large collection of shells, birds’ skins, mammals, birds’ nests and eggs, insects, principally Lepidoptera and Coleoptera, from Venezuela. Purchase. 42254.
BriagHamM, WriuiaM T. nice Pauahi Bishop Museum).
Brmtey, C. 8., Raleigh, N. C.: Naturalhistory specimens (gift) (41272); eggs of reptiles (purchase) L. P. X. (41275); 12 specimens of dragon flies, representing the species Telagrion dexckii (purchase) (41331); 18 specimens, three species, of dragon flies from North Carolina (gift) (41599).
British Museum, (Natural History). (See under London, England. )
NAT Mus 1904 8
(See under Ber|
Britton, Dr. N. L., New York City: Plant from New Jersey. 42838. (See also under New York Botanical Garden. )
Brooks, Miriam G., Salt Lake City, Utah: Partly consolidated dolomitic sand. 41662.
Brooks, THEODORE, Guantanamo, Cuba: Rapid-firing gun shield secured from the Spanish gunboat Sandoval, which was sunk in Guantanamo Bay, July 28, 1898. 42314.
Brown, CHarues E., Milwaukee, Wis.: Four dragon flies. 42030.
Browy, E.J., Lemon City, Fla.: Reptiles,
_ batrachians, and insects from Florida (41481); snake (Coluber guttatus) from Florida (42735).
Brown, FrepErtIc, Perry, Me.: Received through Dr. David White. Specimen of Archzxopterix jacksoni Dn. 41728.
Brown, H. J., Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia: Receivea through Hon. F. W. Goding, United States consul. Algze, squids, and egg cases of a shark. 42782.
| Brown, H. J., Washington, D. C.: Plant
from Calapach Island. 42440.
Brown, Mrs. J. Crosspy, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City: Piano of obsolete make, with two photographs (42336); stringed instrument and a transverse flute (42736). Exchange.
Brown, NatHan C., Lakewood, N. J.: Two hundred and sixty-seven birds’ skins from South Carolina. 42516.
Brown, Mrs. N. M., Ashtabula, Ohio: Three hundred and thirty-five plants from Mexico, collected by Mr. E. W. Nelson. Purchase. 41245.
Brown, Dr. P. D., contract surgeon, U.S. Army, Camp Mataling Falls, Philippine Islands: Moths and butterflies from the Philippine Islands. 41996.
Brown, Rev. Rogert, Philippine Weather Bureau, Manila, P. I.: Specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera. 42795.
Browne, Crecit Seymour, Anacapri, Italy: Sixty-three moths (41344); Lepidoptera (41901; 42066). Exchange.

<<<Page: 137>>>

Brownine, J. M., Mill Creek, Ind. T.: Specimen of horned Corydalus. 42884.
3RuUCCIANI, D., & Co., London, England:
Ten casts of Assyrian, Egyptian, and |
Greek sculptures. Purchase. 42675.
Te Paks
Brues, Prof. C. T., Marine Biological | Laboratory, Woods Hole, Mass., and | Paris, Tex.: Two hymenopterous para|
sites (41347); 62 specimens of North
American Phoridee, including the types |
of 26 species described by Aldrich and Brues (42322); specimen of Telenomus heliothidis Ashm. (42823).
Bryan, H. W., Plano, Tex.: Clam shells,
or lamellibranchs, Radiolitis austinensis
41329. Bryan, W. ALaAnson, Bishop Memorial
Roemer.
Museum, Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands: |
Eight specimens of shells from Marcus Island, Pacific Ocean. 41604. : Bryan, Sr. GrorGeE T. C., Oroville, Cal.: Specimen of soapstone from near Oro-
ville, used by the Indians in making |
pottery and other objects. 41821.
| Burraty, H. D., Washington,
Bryant, Owren, Cambridge, Mass.: Speci| men of green crab from Ipswich, Mass. |
(42645); 80 specimens of mollusks from Bermuda
(42705); crustaceans from
Massachusetts and Bermuda (42751); |
crustaceans and eggs of mollusk (42807); specimen of Crangon septemspinosa Say (42869).
Bryant, THeo., Wellington, B. C.: One |
hundred and twenty-four specimens of Lepidoptera (41528); received through Dr. H. G. Dyar, 75 moths (42288).
Buciani, D. & Co., London, England: Cast from Temple of Sun God. Pur-
chase. 42339.
Bunric, Dr. C. H., Director, Cement Fabrik, Port Kunda, Estland, Russia.
Two specimens of Estonioceras, speci|
men of Vaginaten, specimen of Receptaculites, a trilobite, and 6 gastropods. 42133.
Butkuey, L. C., Avalon, Alden Bridge,
Bossier Parish, La.: Four specimens of | fossil coral representing the species |
Balanophyllia angustinensis Vaughan. 41447,
Bunxer, E. H., Biddeford Pool, Me.:
Specimen of Spheroides maculatus. 41290. Bunker, Mr., Fanturce, Porto Rico:
Received through Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology: Two models of Porto Rican homes. 42913. :
BunngeELL, J. H. & Co., New York City, received through Clarence A. Stimpson: Morse telegraph apparatus, consisting of a sounder anda key. 41950.
Burke, H. E., Division of Entomology, Department of Agriculture: Six dragonflies. 42149. -
Burks, W. S., Pittsburg, Tex.: Secarabeeid beetle, Dynastes tityus Linneeus. 42046.
Burns, Dr. FRANK, Smithsonian Institution: Specimen of Cambrian sandstone with Scolithus linearis Hall, from the drift near Washington, D. C. 41861...
BurnstINg, ABRAHAM, Washington, D.C.: Fifteen watch movements. 41705.
Dae ess
Twelve plants from Texas. Exchange.
42557.
Burrows, C. H., National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of American Bittern, Botaurus lentiginosus. 42818.
Buscx, August. (See under Washington Biologists’ Field Club. )
Busy, A. H., Vancouver, B. C.: Twentyone specimens of Lepidoptera. 41525.
Busn, B. F., Courtney, Mo.: Two hundred and eighty plants from Texas, Arkansas, and other localities. Purchase. 41263.
ButrerFieELp, Dr. E. E., D. C.: Brain of a colored man.
Washington,
42009.
Burron, F. L., Oakland, Cal.: Specimen of Pecten diegensis Dall and Capulus californicus Dall, from San Pedro Bay, Cal. 41951.
Buysson, Count Ropert pu. (See under Paris, France, Musée d’ Histoire Naturelle. )
CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, San Francisco, Cal.: Fifty-four plants from California. Exchange. 42172.

<<<Page: 138>>>

CALIFORNIA, University oF, Berkeley, Cal.: One hundred and fifty-five plants from California. Exchange. 42747°
CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND, SEDGWICcK MUsEUM: Received through Prof. T. McHenry Hughes. A part of the type specimen of Bryozoa nebulipora (monticulipora) papillata McCoy. 42881.
CAMPBELL, J AMES, Hastings, Pa.: Received through Dr. David White. Twenty-six specimens of Paleozoic fossils from the head of Cecil Creek, Cambria County,
Pa. 42450.
Gapront, P. P., & Bro., Boston, Mass.: Fight plaster casts. Purchase. 42437. Taser
CARNEGIE InstiTUTION, Washington, D.C.: Archeological collection made by Gerard Fowke (9101); archeological collection made by J. D. McGuire (9192). (Deposit. )
CARNEGIE Museu, Pittsburg, Pa.: Duplicate of the Morse telegraph register used in Baltimore in 1844. (Loan.) 8704. Returned.
CARPENTER, G. O., printed cotton handkerchiefs. 9192.
(Loan. )
Carrineton, Dr. P. M., Fort Stanton, N. Mex.: Molar of amammoth ( Elephas columbi). 41539.
CARROLL, CHARLES, National Military Home, Montgomery County, Ohio: Three case worms representing the species Thyridopteryx ephemerxformis Stephens. 41470.
Carter, Mrs. CaTHertNe A., Mrs. Mary E. Mills, and Mr. R. A. Golden, Washington, D. C.: Spinning wheel and cards owned by Mrs. Catherine A. Golden. 42851.
Carter, Brig. Gen. W. H., U.S. Army, |
received through War Department: Hoe and trowel dug from the ruins of Jamestown, Va., by Lieutenant Barney, U.S. Army. 41941.
Cary, Merritt, Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Seventeen butterflies from Canada. 42777.
St. Louis, Mo.: Two
CaTHcart, Miss E. W. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
CauvELL, A. N., Department of Agriculture: Lizard, snake, and frog from Kaslo, British Columbia (41754); 19 insects from Iowa and Assiniboia (41900); specimen of Planorbis from British Columbia (42290). (See also under Dr. H. G. Dyar and Prof. C. P. Gillette. )
CaupELL, A. N., R. P. Currie and Dr. H. G. Dyar: Worm from Kaslo, British Columbia. 41365.
CENTRAL RAILROAD ComMPpANy oF NEw JERSEY, Jersey City, N. J.: Received through F. G. Sherman, superintendent of telegraph. Telephone transmitter, telephone receiver, and a magneto-telephone bell (41502); electrical instrument (41557).
CHAMBER OF CoMMERCE OF THE STATE OF New York. (See under Smithsonian Institution. )
CHAMBERLAIN, E. B., Washington, D. C.: Twenty-two specimens of Pleridophyta from Maine (42269); 105 eryptogams, principally mosses, from the northeastern section of the United States (42471); 30 specimens of mosses from New England (42788). Exchange.
CHAMBERLAIN, F. M. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
CHAMBERLAIN, Rey. L. T., New York City: Thirty specimens of rare exotic Naiades, new to the Museum collection. 41773.
Cuanponnet, Z. L., Fosston, Minn.: Four plants from Minnesota. 42484.
Cuapman, Mrs. C. N.: Received through F. C. P. Davey, Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. Eskimo and Indian clothes and curios-
ities. Purchase. 41731. | CoapMaN, S. B., Swannanoa, N. C.: Two caddis-worms and their cases. 42908.
CHAPMAN, Rev. ., Christ Church Mission, Anyik, Alaska: Fossil horn core ofa musk ox. 41564.
Cuarnay, Desire, Paris, France: Casts of Tikal, Temple of the Sun; Sacrifice of the Tongue; and lintel of Quetzalcoatl. Purchase. 42420. L. P.X.

<<<Page: 139>>>

Case, Miss Atice, Washington, D. C.: One hundred and ninety-eight plants from the region of Lake Michigan. 41990.
Cuasr, NarHan Brown, Bethesda, Md.: Received through Mrs. Susan Brown Chase. Gilt dress sword presented to Gen. Jacob Brown, U. 8. Army, by the senate and assembly of the State of New York for services in the war of 1812. 42794.
Cuase, Mrs. Susan Brown, Bethesda, Md.: Order of procession for the funeral of Major-General Brown. (Gift. ) 42665. Gold snuff box, presented to Gen. Jacob Brown, U.S. Army, by the city of New York for services in the war of 1812. (Loan.) 9443. under Nathan Brown Chase. )
CHELSEA CLocK Company, Boston, Mass.: |
Received through Charles H. Pearson, treasurer. Chelsea navy clock and Chelsea ship’s bell clock. 42910.
CueEsnut, Dr. V. K., Department of Agriculture: Twenty specimens of land and fresh-water shells (41517); plant from the Yellowstone National Park (41536).
CHEVALLIER, L. of Agriculture. )
(See under Department
CHICHESTER, WILLIAM S., Aquasco, Md.: Specimen of fossil wood. 41694.
CuipMAN, C. H., Curtis Mills, Fla.: Copper coin, 12 gros, Urban VIII, 1625-44. Purchase. 42006.
CHRISTIANIA, Norway, KONGELIGE FREDERIKS Universitet: Received through Prof. Robert Collett. Eight specimens of reptiles and batrachians from Madagascar, South Africa, Australia, and Formosa. 41775.
Criapp, G. H., Pittsburg, Pa.: Four species of Jand shells from various American localities, representing cotypes of species lately described. 41585.
CLARK, A. Howarp, U.S. National Mu-
seum: Pamphlet containing historical |
view of Philadelphia. 42094.
Cuark, Prof. H. L., Olivet, Mich.: Specimen of Tree-frog, Hyla evittata, from Easton, Md. 41491.
(See also |
Crarkg, Prof. F. W. (See under V. H. Goldschmidt and Isadore Wise. )
CuaRKE, Dr. J. M., State paleontologist, Albany, N. Y.: Two plaster restorations of Hurypterus. 41959.
Cuements, F. E., Nebr.: Twenty-five plants from Colorado. Purchase. 42112.
Curt, J. O. (See under South Side Sportsmens’ Club.)
Cuirron, R. §., Bureau of Entomology, Department of Agriculture: Specimen of Ambystoma from Annapolis Junction, Md. 41550.
CocKERELL, Prof. T. D. A., East Las Vegas, N. Mex.: Three hundred and twenty-seven insects from New Mexico (41251); 2 specimens of land shells from Mexico (41321); specimen of Alysiid, Idiaste megacephala Ashm. (41458); 3 specimens of Hymenoptera (41465); 9 specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera (41499); 4 species of Carboniferous brachiopods from Pecos, N. Mex. (41500); 65 insects, including 54 specimens of Orthoptera, 3 of Diptera, and 6 of Hymenoptera from Colorado Springs (41658); 233 specimens of miscellaneous insects (42856); 2 plants from Colorado (42743).
Cock1E, J. W., Kaslo, British Columbia: Eleven specimens of insects (41735) ; 3 specimens of Lepidoptera, including 2 types (42656).
Corrin, T. H., Baltimore, Md.: Received through Mr. D. W. Coquillett. Seven hundred and seventy-five specimens of Diptera, 6 specimens of Hymenoptera, and 10 vials containing mosquitoes in an early stage. 42209.
CoHEN, ReuBen S8., Cambridge, Mass.: Ten silver coins of Morocco. 41580.
| Conn, Mrs. A., Carson City, Nev.: Piute
basketry water bottle. 42565.
CoLEMAN, J. B., Crowley, La.: Walking stick, Brunneria borealis Scud. 41757.
| Cotestock, Miss, Kipple, Pa.: Specimens of land’ shells from Blair County, Pa. 42876.

<<<Page: 140>>>

Zs Couuerr, Prof. Roperr. (See under Kongelige Frederiks Universitet, Christiania, Norway).
Courier, .M. F., president, Aston Rogen Mining. Company, Paragould, Ark.: Zinc ore from Sharp County, Ark. 41885.
COLLINS, F.S., Malden, Mass.: One hunhundred plants. Purchase. 41868.
Cotton Marsite Works, Colton, Cal. Specimen of marble. 42463.
Comes, Mrs. E., Lakeside, Ohio: Fifty specimens of marine algze collected at ‘Half Moon Bay, San Mateo County, Cal. 41322.
ComMERCE AND LaxBor, Department of, Hon. George B. Cortelyou, Secretary. Transferred from Bureau of Fisheries: Types and other specimens of fishes of the Hawaiian Islands; also crustaceans and other invertebrates and a piece of coral (41289); 15 specimens of Mistichthys luzonensis from Lake Buhi, Philippine Islands (41408); marine worms from Beaufort, N. C. (41587); received through Dr. B. W. Evermann, 6 plants from Alaska (41819); mollusks, insects, and invertebrates, birds, reptiles, batrachians, and a mammal (41840); 2 plants (41859); about 10,000 specimens of land and fresh-water mollusks collected in and about Lake Maxinkuckee, Indiana, by Dr. Paul Bartsch (41966); skull of a mule obtained by 8. G. Worth (42054); 7 specimens of holothurians from Porto Rico (42064); 27 plants from Alaska collected by Prof. C. H. Gilbert (42214) ; piece of rock containing brachiopods from Albatross dredging station No. 3088 (42291); types and cotypesof fishescollected by thesteamer Albatross in Japan and Hawaii, received through Prof. C. H. Gilbert (42327); collection of.reptiles and batrachians from Indiana, also 3 fishes (423535); reptiles and batrachians from Indiana (42358); 11 plants from northern Maine, collected by Dr. W. C. Kendall (42373); 11 mammals from West Virginia and Maine (42410); miscellaneous specimens of reptiles and batrachians from different localities in the United
CoMMERCE AND LasBor, Dept. of—Con. States (42426); head of a shark, tail of a shark, and a whole specimen collected by Mr. E. L. Berndt in Honolulu (42439); through Dr. B. W. Evermann, crustaceans collected in Lake Maxinkuckee, also crustaceans from different sources (42461); about 2,000 specimens of land anc _ fresh-water shells from various sections of the United States (42500); 246 plants from the vicinity of Karlak, Kadiak Island, Alaska, collected by Cloudsley Rutter (42561); Hawaiian fishes (42563); collection of plants from Alaska, obtained by F. M. Chamberlain (42632); 24 sheets of plants collected in southern Oregon by Dr. B. W. Evermann (42633); collection of turtles made by Prof. W. P. Hay in North America (42749); type specimen of Anguilla exca (42917).
Computing Scate Company, Dayton, Ohio: Received through O. O. Ozias, manager. No. 71 scale. 42103.
Conapon, J. EK. (See under A. A. Heller. )
Conaress, Lrprary oF: Received through Hon. Herbert Putnam, librarian: Hand-made pins with hand-bound heads, found with a mass of manuscripts dated from 1801 to 1819 (41896); through Mr. W. P. Cutter, leather cardcase, which is believed to have once been in the possession of Mrs. Dolly Payne Madison (41282).
Conrap, Dr. H. 8., Philadelphia, Pa.: Plant from Pennsylvania. 42635.
Cook, Davin N., Salem, Mass.: Samples of road material. 42243.
Coox, Prof. M. T., Greencastle, Ind.: Three specimens of Gallwasp, Dryophanta radicola Ashm. 42169.
Cook, Dr. O. F., Department of Agriculture: Two hundred and seven spiders and miscellaneous insects from Africa and the Canary Islands; also a mollusk and a lizard. 41788.
Coox, Mrs. T., Sandusky, Ohio: Specimen of water lily from Ohio. 41378. Cootry, R. A., Bozeman, Mont.: Toad,
Bufo boreas. 42445.

<<<Page: 141>>>

CopELAND, HE. Received through Dr. E. L. Greene. Specimen of Gormannia from California. 41825.
CopbNHAGEN, DenmMARK: Zoological Museum of the University. Received through Prof. Th. Mortensen: Echinoderms (41588); through Prof. G. M. R.
Levinsen, about 100 species of Euro| pean Mesozoic and Tertiary bryozoans |
(42476). Exchange. CoquittetT, D. W. (See under T. H. Coffin. )
Corron, JAMES 8. (See under Smithso-
nian Institution. )
Coumse, W. W., Gunston, Va.: Skin and skull of Arctomys sp. 42647.
Court, EK. J., Washington, D. C.: About 950 specimens of land and fresh-water shells from Harpers Ferry, W. Va. (41494; 41516; 41690; 41714); about 150 specimens of land and fresh-water
shells from the District of Columbia |
(41760); about 550 land and fresh-water
shells from Harpers Ferry, W. Va., the |
District of Columbia, and Cherry Hill, Md. (41964; 42047): 2 specimens of Succinea ovalis Say, from Maryland (42533); specimens of land and freshwater mollusks from Virginia (42877).
Covitie, F. V., Botanist, Department of Agriculture: Twenty-four specimens of cacti. 42846. (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
Coyne, P. J., Greaterville, Ariz.: Beetle, Alaus zunianus Casey; 2 beetles representing the species Psiloptera drummondi Laporte and Gory; Hawk-moth Piilampelus typhon Kulg, and 8 Honeyants, Myrmecocystus. 42909.
Craiac, R. Len, Fossil, Wyo.: Three fossil fishes (41622); 3 fossil fishes from a quarry at Kemmerer (42927). Pur: chase.
CraneE, W. E., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Seventy specimens of Clinton fossils from McKeeys, Pa. Exchange. 42115.
Crawrorp, J. G., Albany, Oreg. Through Dr. Leonhard Stejneger: Three photographs of archeological specimens. 42562.
B. (no address given): |
CrIDDLE, NorMAN, Aweme, Manitoba, Canada: Three specimens of Lewcobrephos middendorfi, a rare Lepidoptera. 42527.
Cripps, O. N., Aiken, S. C.: ,‘‘Glass snake,’’ Ophisaurus ventralis, from South Carolina. 41660.
| Crossy, F. W., Washington, D. C.: Ba-
saltic lava, garnetiferous sand, and a
portion of a tusk of a mammoth (?)
from St. Michael and Nome, Alaska
(41642); diatomaceous earth from
Colby, Wash. (41650); specimens of
silicified wood from Glover, Idaho
(42205); specimen of molybdenite from
near Campo, San Diego County, Cal.
| (42464); specimen of massive granite
from 20 miles east of San Diego (42574).
| Cross, Warrman. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey.)
CrosstncHamM, W., U. 8. National Museum: Snake (Coluber guttatus), from Silver Hill, Md. (41506); salamander
| (42690).
Crozier, Brig. Gen. WiLu1AM, U.S. Army. (See under War Department. )
Cutten, O. C. Institution. )
(See under Smithsonian
Currin, R. P., U.S. National Museum: One hundred and forty specimens of miscellaneous insects from Alberta, North Dakota and Minnesota (41545). (See also under A. N. Caudell; H. G. Dyar; Washington Biologists Field Club; E. B. Williamson. )
Curtiss, A. H., Jacksonville, Fla.: Two hundred and twelve plants from New Providence Island. Purchase. 41606.
Cusuine, Mrs. F. H., Washington, D. C.: Zuni suit. (Loan.) 9473.
Cusick, W. C., Union, Oreg.: Two hundred and four plants from Oregon. Purchase. 41815.
Currer, W. P. Library of.)
Dat, Dr. W. H., U.S. Geological Survey: Nine color sketches of fishes painted by the donor while a student under the elder Professor Agassiz, including the species Holocentrus; Rhom= bus triacanthus; Perca flava-pupurea;
(See under Congress,

<<<Page: 142>>>

Dai, Dr. W. H.—Continued. Chetodon brownriggii; Mesopion; Pristipoma rodo; Ocyurus chrysurus and Glyphiodon (41445); specimen of quartz crystal from Herkimer County, N. Y. (41717); about 140 specimens of West
American chitons (41928); 237 speci| mens, 48 species, of land and marine |
shells from Alaska, California, Arizona, Mexico, Venezuela, Canada, and other
localities (42307); specimen of Conus |
teniatus (42385).
Damon, C. A.., Fenton, Mich.: Deringer |
pistols and revolver. (Loan.) 93894.
. (Returned. )
Damon, Rospert F., Weymouth, England: | Slab of Oentacrinus fossils, slab of Tri| gonia clavata, 18 fossils crinoids, 12 ammonites, and 13 miscellaneous fossils |
meteorites from |
(41838), L: Pi X.;
Bialostock and Krasnojarsk (42053). |
Purchase.
Danie, J. W., jr., Washington, D. C.: Two specimens of Swainson’s warbler, Helinaia swainsoni, and an Ant thrush, Thamnophilus skins from Mount Rogers, Va. (41483); 3 specimens of Parus carolinensis and 1 of Porzana noveboracensis from Virginia (41809); small mammals from
Virginia (42296); 11 birds’ eggs and 2 |
nests of North American birds (42509).
Davenport, Homer, Morris Plains, N. J.; Twenty-two birds, principally downy young of the Impeyan, Golden, Reeve’s, and other pheasants (41454); specimen of Sonnerat’s jungle fowl, Gallus sonnerati (42010); 2 specimens of pheasant, Chrysodophus pictus and Calophasis elliott (42583); chicken of a Green jungle-fowl, Gallus varius (42819).
Davey, F.C. P. (See under Mrs. C. N. Chapman. )
Davipson, A., Los Angeles, Cal.: Two plants from California. 41277.
Davinson, Mrs. A. 8., Washington, D. C.: Piece of silver Chinese money. 41937.
Davis, Prof. C. ABport, Providence, R. I.: Thirty-eight species of Bermudan shells (41623); 3 shells from Bermuda (42069); cotypes of 2 species and 9 varieties of Bermudan shells (42389);
the |
IDAs Die TOE Whee 10
sp. (41309); 5 birds’ |
Davis, Prof. C. AsBorr—Continued. 41 specimens of shells from Bermuda, including 8 lots of cotypes of recently described forms (42628).
Davis, Mrs. E. J., Buffalo, N. Y.: Two specimens of unfinished bead work. 42486.
Davis, L. F., Le Roy, Kans.: Specimens of Calamites cistii Brogn., and Calamites suckowtt Brogn. (41799); mollusks, pearls, sample of oil, piece of lava and water-worn pebbles (42126).
Davis, Dr. 8. A., Yonkers, N. Y.: Reptiles and batrachians from Ecuador. 42409.
Davis, W. A. . (See under Manitou Mineral Springs Company. )
Dawson, Mrs. M. M., Washington, D. C.: Two Oglala Sioux war bonnets. Purchase. L. P. X. 42560.
S. Geological Survey: Specimen of pyrophyllite from Murphy, N. C. (41620); specimens of cassiterite from Gaffney, 8. C. (41823); rock from Mariposa County, Cal. (41945); pig iron from Spottswood furnace on the Rappahannock River, Spottsylvania County, Va. (42108); graphite from Bald Mountain, New Hampshire (42536).
Dayton, C. N., New York City: Nineteen photographs of Mexican ethnological objects. Purchase. 41403.
Deam, C. C., Bluffton, Ind.: Thirty plants from Indiana (41909; 42265). (See also under A. A. Heller. )
Dean, Dr. BasHrorp. (See under Dr.
F. T. Delfin. )
Dr BerEErRs CoNsoOLIDATED Mines, Kimberley, South Africa: Received through Gardner F. Williams, general manager. Specimens of rock and blue ground; also concentrates from the Kimberley mines. 42728.
Decker, G. M., Waco, Tex.: Luna moth. 42886.
Detrin, Dr. F. T., Valparaiso, Chile: Received through Dr. Bashford Dean, Columbia University, New York City. Deer from Chile. Exchange. 32618.

<<<Page: 143>>>

Demine, Dr. N. L., Walloon Lake, Mich.: Moth representing the species Erebus
odora Linneeus. 41451. EMOKIDOFF, K., St. Petersburg, Russia: Eighteen hymenopterous parasites
(41348; 41547); 12 specimens of Hymenoptera parasitica (41738); 23 specimens of parasitic hymenoptera (41924; 42408).
Denman, Miss M. 8., New Brunswick, N. J.: Slab of stone containing a fossil fish representing the species Ischchypterus sp. 41540.
Dennis, F. M., Albany, N. Y.: Fossil fruit of a palm representing the genus Sabal. 41725.
Dr Perv, H. P., Jacksonville, Ill.: Specimen of long-tailed Ichneumon fly, Thalessa lunator Fabricius. 42835.
DerBy, OrvILLE A., Sao Paulo, Brazil: Diamond-bearing gravel with an imbedded diamond from Minas Geraes, Brazil. 42694. (See also under Antonio M. Magalhaes, jr.)
Dericxson, Prof. 8. H., Lebanon Valley College, Annyille, Pa.: Three specimens of Vespertilio. 42418.
DescHamps, Emit, San Jose, Cal.: Collection of natural-history material from Shanghai, China. Purchase. 41273.
De Usrra, Vicente, Ponce, Porto Rico:
Eight stone celts from Porto Rico. 41575. Dietrich, Hon. Herrman R., consul-
general, United States of America, Guayaquil, Ecuador: Sample of ‘‘ Palo de Balsa”’ or ‘‘ Balsa log,’’ and a sample of ‘‘Bejuco”’ or wythe. Received through State Department. 42319.
Dimmock, GrEorGE, Springfield, Mass.: One hundred specimens of larvee, rep-
resenting Culex cantans, C. dyari, and ~
C. sp. 42691.
Dissrow, Dr. W.8., Newark, N. J.: Crystal of spodumene, of historic interest, being one of the first known crystals found by Doctor Hitchcock at Huntington, Mass. (413851); 225 minerals from Great Notch, New Jersey, and 3 minerals from Franklin, N. J. (42163).
Drxon, CHarRLEs, Harlesden, London,
England: Twenty-four birds’ skins from various localities. 42377.
Drxon, Rotanp B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.: Eight Maidu basketsfrom California. Purchase. 41905.
Dop, F. H. W., Millarville, Alberta, Canada: Received through Dr. H. G. Dyar. Lepidoptera. 42138.
Doper, Byron E., Davison, Mich: Thirteen archeological objects (9413); grooved stone axe (9510). (Loan. )
Donas, C. K., Port Huron, Mich.: Thirty plants from Michigan (42364); 5 specimens of Laciniaria scariosa (42421).
Doper, W. C., Washington, D. C.: Sixty cartridges for small arms. 42429.
Dopson, W. R. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Dorr1incer, C., & Sons, New York City: Glass model of the ‘‘Excelsior’’ diamond. 42585.
Dorrance, Miss F., Dorranceton, Pa.: Ten specimens of Amphipods representing the species Lepidactylis dytiscus Say, from Mosquito Lagoon, Florida. 42775.
Dorsey, G. A., Field Columbian Museum, Chicago, Ill.: Four Tlinkit house posts and 2 totem posts. Purchase. L. P. X. 42671.
Dowe 1, Purp, U.S. National Museum: Specimen of Polygola nuttallii from Takoma Park, D. C. (41469); about 30 plants, principally ferns, from Staten Island, New York (42270).
DRESDEN, GERMANY: KONIGLISCHES ZooLOGISCHES UND ANTHROPOLOGISCHESETHNOGRAPHISCHES Museum: Received through Dr. A. B. Meyer. Three skins of Sturnide (exchange) (41464); 125 negatives taken in the Philippine Islands (gift) (41586).
Dusots, ConsTANCE GODDARD, Waterbury, Conn.: Small basket, a root used in dyeing baskets, and a few dyed splints. 42646. (See also under American Museum of Natural History. )
Dusoss, J. H., Huguenot, Ga.: Seventytwo specimens of unios; also human bones (41552); skull found along the

<<<Page: 144>>>

Dusose, J. H.—Continued.
base of one of the old Rembert Indian mounds near the bank of Savannah River, Petersburg District, Ga. (41816); spider (42887).
Ducis, Dr. A., Guanajuato, Mexico: Re| ceived through Department of Agricul-
_ ture. Plant from Mexico. 42378.
Dunuap, R. G. (See under Department of Agriculture.)
Dyar,. Dr. H. G., and R. P. Currie, U.S. National Museum: A. N. Caudell, Departmentof Agriculture: 18,355 insects, consisting of Arachnida and Myriapoda
‘from British Columbia (41365); collection of Lepidoptera, comprising 20,320 specimens from British Columbia (41463).
Dyar, Dr. H.G. (See under Theo. Bry|
Anica eerie We Doda Hi Ds Merrick, Washington Biologists’ Field Club. )
Earir, Mrs. Avice Morse, Brooklyn, | N. Y.: Three bayberry candles. 42627. | EasterBrook, Miss Erva, Camden, N.J.: | | Emmons, Lieut. G. T., U. 8S. Navy,
Twenty-seven Confederate notes. 41313.
Eastman Kopak Company, Rochester, | N. Y.: Eastman-Walker roll-holder, | 1885; Eastman detective camera of 1887; | kodak of 1888; 4-folding kodak of 1890; | B. daylight kodak of 1892; pocket ko|
dak of 1895; folding kodak of 1902; folding kodak of 1903. 41782.
Eastwoop, Miss Aticr, Academy of Natural Sciences, San Francisco, Cal.: Fif-
teen plants from California (41232; |
41278; 41286; 41381; 42816); specimen of Woodwardia sp. from California (413824). (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
Epmunpoz, Juan C., Kingsford, Fla.:
Fossil teeth from Florida. Purchase. 41308.
Epson, G. E., St. Albans, Vt.: Six fossil brachiopods. 41911.
Epwarps, A. J. (See under Dr. R. E. C. Stearns. )
Eaypr Expioration Funp, London, England. (See under Smithsonian Institution. )
EXRRENSBERGER, Fritz, Eichstiitt, Bavaria, Germany: Ninety-two specimens of
EHRENSBERGER, FRitz—Continued. Jurassic invertebrates from the quarries of Eichstitt (purchase) (41914); 9 specimens of squids, crabs, and worms from the same quarries (purchase) (42143); fossil fishes (purchase) L. P. X. (42477).
Evper, J. H., Atlanta, Ga.: Fossorial wasp, representing the species Specius speciosus Drury. 42480.
| Eatin, G. D., Port Orford, Oreg.: Longi-
corn beetle, Rosalia melancholia Motsch, and a Buprestid beetle, Buprestis adjicta Horn. 41766.
Eimer, A. D. E., Palo Alto, Cal.: Five hundred and forty-eight plants from California. Purchase. 41828.
Emerson, W. O., Haywards, Cal.: Fortyseven birds’ skins from California. 42572.
Emery, J. S., Emeryville, Cal.: Small cube of granite from Newcastle Island, near Nanaimo, British Columbia. 41732.
Princeton, N. J.: Stone pile driver from Knights Inlet, British Columbia, and a Klikitat basket from Victoria; also 2 fish bags from’ Victoria (purchase) (41495); ethnological material from the northwest (purchase) L. P. X. (41512); 14 antique baskets from Thompson River, Alaska, and 2 awls made by the Thompson River Indians of British Columbia ( purchase ) (41665) ; ivory implement from northern Alaska (exchange) (41874); 2 killing clubs, 5 feast spoons, and a Shaman blanket (purchase) L. P. X. (42081); basket shot pouch made by the Tlinkit Indians of Sitka (exchange) (42338); Chilkat blanket shirt (purchase) L. P. X. (42526); ethnological material from British Columbia (exchange) (42638).
Eneuisn, G. L., New York City: Specimens of minerals and ores. Purchase. AP. Xe A879"
Esunaur, Mrs. N. M., Terminal Island, San Pedro, Cal.: About 25 specimens of marine shells (Renilla) (Benedict) from California (42000); specimens of Bittiumfrom California (42345); 5 speci

<<<Page: 145>>>

Esunaur, Mrs. N. M.—Continued. mens of bryozoansand a fragment of a sponge from Catalina Channel (42546).
Estey, Mrs. J. J. (See under National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution. )
EuREKA SLATE COoMPANY, @al.: Specimen of blue and gray slate from a quarry at Slatington. 41975.
Evans, Dr. A. W., New Haven, Conn.: |
Thirty-six specimens of Hepatice from Jamaica (exchange) (42299).
Evans, Dr. R. H., Demerara Museum, |
Georgetown, Demerara: Eight skins of Hoatzin or ‘‘Stink bird,’’ with two
nests and branches on which they |
were found. Purchase. L. P. X. 42104.
EvERMANN, Prof. B. W., Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Commerce and Labor, Washington, D. C.: Six fossil plants from Chignik, Alaska. 41647. (See also under Department of Com-
merce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
FarrBANKs, Mrs. C. W.
Slatington, |
(See under Na|
tional Society of the Daughters of the |
American Revolution. )
Fawcerr, H.8., Salem, Ohio: Five speci| Fisuer, Dr. A. K., Department of Agri-
mens of Nymphea advena Ait from Salem. 41301.
Faxon, Dr. Watrrer. (See under Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. ) :
FEATHERSTONHAUGH, Dr. THomas, Washington, D. C.: Bell-mouthed blunderbuss. 42452.
Keir Dirt se a albanive IN je Yoseelayio specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera. 42458.
Fenyss, Dr. A., Pasadena, Cal.: Two specimens of beetles representing the species Palxoxenus dohrnii Horn. 41899-
FrerNALD, Dr. H. T., Hatch Experiment Station, Amherst, Mass.: Three slides of Thysanoptera representing cotypes of species described by Doctor Hinds. 41932. (See also under Dr. A. D. Morrill. )
FERNEKES, VAuL., Milwaukee, Wis.: Five specimens of Lepidoptera. 42334.
Frrnow, Dr. B. E. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
KmRRISS, J. He, Joliet As Panax. 41426.
Fewxes, Dr. J. Water, Bureau of American Ethnology, Washington, D. C.: Wax candle or taper from Porto Rico (41390) ; carib hammock, cassara strainer, fans, and a set of rope harness (42911). (See also under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology, and Sefior Arturo Subifia. )
Leaves of
Fretp CoLumBIAN MusEum: Specimen of NXapus alleni (exchange) (41295); meteorite from Brenham, Kiowa County, Kans. (purchase) L. P. X. (42367); piece of a meteorite from Mexico (exchange) (42907).
Fretp, GrorGr, Washington, D. C.: Received through Otto Heidemann. Specimen of East Indian beetle, Diowenes dendrobii. 41479.
Fixx, Joun, Nashua, Fla.: Tooth of a mammoth, and piece of a fossil bone. 42147.
First ZooLoaican Insrirure oF THE InPERIAL Untyersity. (Seeunder Vienna, Austria. )
culture, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of Mammillaria from Texas (41594); snake (Ophibolus getulus), from Annapapolis Junction, Md. (41438); 5 birds’ nests and 5 birds’ eggs from Guadeloupe Island (42153); carapace of a large snapping-turtle, Chelydra — serpentina (42219). ;
Fisoer, H. L., Califon, N. J.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Plant from New Jersey. 42837.
FisHeries, U. 8., Bureau of. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor. )
Fiske, Witu1aAm F., Department of Agriculture: Three hundred specimens of Lepidoptera from Tryon, N.C. (42193); 19 specimens of Myriapoda from the same State (42678).
FiercHer, Dr. James, Ottawa, Canada: Twenty-five specimens of Orthoptera (42003); 2 inflated larvee of Semaphora (42031); 4 moths (42316); 12 specimens

<<<Page: 146>>>

Fiercuer, Dr. J AMEs—Continued. of Lepidoptera, types of mew species described by the donor (42757).
Forrsrr, A. F., Dayton, Ohio: Specimens of Ordovician fossils. 41532.
Fons, F. J., Marion, Ky.: About five hundred specimens of Middle Chester fossils (41307); fluorite crystals from Hardin County, Ill. (41435). Exchange.
FoorE Mrinerat Company, Philadelphia, Pa.: Minerals and ores (purchase) L. P. X. (41881); 3 specimens of fayalite from Rockport, Mass.; specimens of hanksite from Borax Lake, Cali-
fornia, and a specimen of selenite from | South Dakota (purchase) L. P. X. (41946); 14 minerals (purchase) L. P. X. (42235); polished slab of rose quartz from Black Hills, 8. Dak. (exchange) (42704). |
Foorr, Prerson & Co., New York City: Received through Clarence A. Stimpson. Morse telegraph apparatus, consisting of a relay, sounder, key, and resonator (41949); twentieth century telegraph key (42158).
Forses BroruHers, San Rafael, Cal.: Two specimens of jasper. 42241.
ForsusH, E., care United States consul, Port-au-Prince, Haiti: Twelve specimens of land shells from Haiti. 41902.
Forrester, Rospert, Salt Lake City, Utah: Fifteen specimens of minerals (41630) ; specimen of martite from Iron County, Utah (41713). Exchange.
Foster, WituiAmM T., Sapucay, Paraguay: Thirty-five specimens of Coleoptera
(41709); 59 moths from Paraguay | (42498). Purchase. Fowker, GERARD, Bureau of American |
Ethnology, Washington, D. C.: Cave material from Colossal Cave, near Mammoth Cave, Ky. 41722. (See also under Carnegie Institution. )
Fow.er, Greorce L., New York City: Two colored drawings of locomotives (41877); 10 tracings of steamboat machinery (41878). Purchase.
Fowter, J. O., Annapolis, Md.: Specimens of Eocene fossils from near Annapolis (42534; 42576; 42739).
| FurrtTss, L. A.
FraiLe, M., Washington, D. C.: Two specimens of cultivated Hawarthia (41360); plants from Texas and the District of Columbia (42331; 43786).
FRANCK, GEORGE. (See under American Entomological Company. )
FRANKLIN, Dr. Metyiun, Philadelphia, Pa.: Thirty-three photographs of eminent musicians. 41357.
FrazeEE, W. E., Columbus, Miss.: Moth ( Citheronia regalis Fabr.). 41420.
FREDENDALL, Miss, Tucson, Ariz.: Specimen of Sphinx moth, Philampelis achemon Drury. 41414.
FrEDHOLM, A., Fort Drum, Fla.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Six specimens of Caddis-flies. 41931.
Frencw, Dr. Crcit, Washington, D. C.: Two wild turkeys representing the species Meleagris silvestris. 42156.
Fric, V., Prague, Bohemia: Fifty-five specimens of fossils from the Paleozoic formations of Bohemia. Purchase. 41836.
Frierson, L. S., Frierson, La.: Five specimens of fresh-water shells from Japan (41777); four shells of Anodonta from Japan (41891).
Friesser, JuLius, Holland, Mich.: Eighteen skins and skulls of bats and 84 specimens of alcoholic bats. Purchase. 42919.
Frissy, R. H. Company. )
(See under Swift and
Fucus, CHARLEs, San Francisco, Cal. Seventeen specimens of Coleoptera. 41486. ;
Fucus, Dr. THEODORE. Vienna, Austria, K. isches Hofmuseum. )
(See under Kk. Naturhist(See under Department
of Agriculture. )
Fuuier, C. V., Grand Ledge, Mich.: Bar amulet (42218); cast of bannerstone (42666).
Furceson, J. M., Kingsville, Tex.: Four plants. 42569.
Fyes, Rev. T. W., Levis, Quebec, Canada: Two specimens of dragon flies (41737); 2 specimens of Lepidoptera

<<<Page: 147>>>

Fyues, Rev. T. W.—Continued. and 2 specimens of Odonata (41803); 3 species of Hymenoptera (41393).
Gaur & Bro., Washington, D. C.: Two watch movements. 42608.
Gant, J. H., Fort Scott, Okla.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Three specimens of cacti. 42787. (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
GARFIELD HospiraL, Washington, D. C.: Brain of a colored man. 41404.
GarRRETT, A. O., Salt Lake City, Utah: Twenty-eight plants. 42384.
GeE, N. Gist, Soochow University, Soochow, China: Miscellaneous insects from China (41998); 7 wooden models, consisting of a native small boat, sedan chair, wheelbarrow, agricultural implement, water-wheel and caraboo, tea man, and a jinrikisha (42039).
GEOLOGICAL SusvgEy, U. 8. Interior Department. )
(See under
GERRARD, E. & Sons, Camden, England: Specimen of sheep (Ovis musimon) (purchase) L. P. X. (42131); specimen of Pantholops sp. (purchase) (42135); mounted specimen of zebra (purchase ) (42370).
Gicuas, Ext, Flagstaff, Ariz.: Five plants from Arizona. 42790.
GirrorD, E. W., Alameda, Cal.: About 40 specimens of fresh-water shells from California. 42070.
GieLroui, Prof. Henry H., Florence, Italy: Photographic copy of a Haida Indian stone dish. 42396.
GILBERT, Mrs. A. P., Logan, Okla.: Specimen of a Solpugid. 41413.
GILBERT, Prof. C. H. (See under Leland Stanford Junior University; and Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
GILBERT, Prof. G. K. (See under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. )
Git, Mrs. M. W., Washington, D. C.: One hundred and eighty-two tablets illustrating Indian symbolism. Purchase. L. P: X. (42518; 42598).
Git, Dr. T. N., Smithsonian Institution: Carabao horn needle for weaving nets,
Gi, Dr. T. N.—Confinued. obtained from the Philippine Islands. 42801.
GiLueTre, Prof. C. P., Fort Collins, Colo.: Twenty-four specimens of Orthoptera, received through A. N. Caudell (42297); 24 specimens of Lepidoptera (42304); 17 specimens of Acridiidee (42353); 16 specimens of Microlepidoptera (42354); 39 specimens of Lepidoptera (42547).
GiLobEirA, J. J., Vedada, Habana, Cuba: | Received through Department of Agriculture. Plant from Cuba. 42822.
GirauLtt, A. A., Blacksburg, Va.: Six cotypes of Aulacidea solidaginis Girault and 2 species of parasites (41248); 3 cynipid galls representing the species Solenozopheria vacciniti Ashm. (41497); 5 specimens of a Braconid, Rhogas intermedius Cr. (41848); 2 specimens of Hadronotus carinatiferus Ashm. (42895) .
Gopine, Hon. F. W. (See under H. J. Brown. )
GOLDEN, R. A. ine A. Carter. )
(See under Mrs. Cather-
GoLpMAN, E. A., Department of Agriculture: Two plants from Mexico. 41300. (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
Gotpman, L. J., Berkeley, Cal.: Two specimens of Cotyledon from California. 41598.
Go.tpscumipt, V. H.: Received through Prof. F. W. Clarke, U. 8. Geological Survey. Specimen of anglesite on galena from Monte Poni, Sardinia. 412338.
GONZALES, G.J.,Guaymas, Mexico: Rocks, fossils, and minerals from Mexico. Exchange. 42454.
GoopE, Harry, Philadelphia, Pa.: Railroad link of obsolete pattern. Purchase. 41645.
Gorpon, R. H., Cumberland, Md.: Specimen of Pseudocrinites perdewi with arms (42043); specimen of pseudo-meteoric iron from near Cumberland (42382).
GraBHAM, Dr. M., Kingston, Jamaica: Seven adult mosquitoes and larvee from Jamaica. 42520.

<<<Page: 148>>>

GRaF, THEODORE, Vienna, Austria: Thirty-two heliographs of Greeco-Egyptian portraits. 41522.
GRAHAMSTOWN, SoutH ArFrricA, ALBANY Museum: Received through Dr. S. Schénland, director. Two elands. Exchange. 42013.
GRANT, Gen. FREDERICK D., U.S. Army: Illuminated parchment presenting Gen. U.S. Grant with the freedom of the city of Londonderry, Ireland.
Grant, G. B. (See under A. A. Heller.)
Gray Hersarium, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.: Two plants from
‘Arizona and New Mexico’ (41981); plant from Mexico (42785).
42659. |
Gray, Mrs. Wit, Soddy, Tenn.: Canary |
bird. 42221.
GREBLE, Mrs. M. D., Washington, D. C.: Four baskets. Loan. 8909. Returned.
GREELY, Gen. A. W., U.S. Army. (See under War Department. )
GREENE, Dr. E. L. Copeland and E. Janazerosky. )
GREENE, Dr. H. W., Springfield, Mass. Old-style saw. 42441.
Greer, ©. S., Western Union Telegraph Company, Columbus, Ohio.: Telegraph switch board and a Brooks telegraph insulator. 42110.
GrecerR, D. K., Fulton, Mo.: Eleven specimens of coal-measure fossils from Washington, Mo. 42029.
GrirFin, A. C., Pierre, S. Dak.: Mammal representing the species Putorius nigripes. 41741.
GrirritHs, Davin, Department of Agri-
culture: Plants from Arizona (42083;
49947).
Grimes, J. H., Durango, Colo.: Received through Max Pracht. Specimen of azurite crystals. 41864.
GrRONWALL, Dr. Cart A., Copenhagen, Denmark: Four hundred specimens of Cambrian fossils, collected by the donor. Purchase. 42722.
Grour, Dri AS J., Brooklyn, N. Twenty-five specimens of mosses. Purchase. 41800.
(See under E. B. |
Ese]
Gruss, Dr. R. B., U. S. Army, The Presidio, San Francisco, Cal.: Swords, knives, and other articles belonging to the Moro tribes in the vicinity of Lake Lanao, Mindanao, P. I. (8498); carved Nautilus shell (9090). (Loan. )
Gruber, F. (See under Memorial Museum, Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, Cal. )
Guerin, T. M., Decatur, Nebr.: Ethnological objects from the islands of Guam and Saipan. 42501.
Gunn, J. M., Laguna, N. Mex.: Fossil bones, including the upper end of humerus and the lower end of femur of a Belodont, Heterodontosuchus ganei. 41423.
GuNTHER, Dr. A., British Museum ( Natural History), London, England: Mammals, birds, reptiles, and fishes. 42075.
Hatt, Dr. C. L., Elbowoods, N. Dak.: Photographs of Indians. 42238.
Haut, C. Lyon, Port au Prince, Haiti, West Indies: Shells from Lake Enriquillo, Haiti. 41493.
Haut, H. M., University of California, Berkeley, Cal.: Plant from California (41607); received through Department of Agriculture, 15 plants from California (41787); 3 specimens of Ribes from California (41884); 240 plants from California (purchase) (42244).
Hawtiock, CHARLES, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of copper ore from the Windsor Bush mine, near Plainfield, Mass. 41617.
Hammerstigen, H. L., Chicago, Ill.: Two snakes and 2 geckos (41455); also specimen of European viper (41456).
Hampson, Sir GreorGce F., British Musem
(Natural History), London, England: Seventeen specimens of Lepidoptera from Norway. 42621.
Hanps, E. J., Willcox, Ariz.: Moth. 41343.
Hanuam, A. W., Victoria, B. C.: One hundred and fourteen specimens of Lepidoptera. 41527.
Harper, Rotanp M., College Point, N. Y.: Three specimens of Nymphxa

<<<Page: 149>>>

Harper, Roranp M.—Continued. from Georgia (41302); musical sand from Canoochee River, near Groveland, Ga. (41379); 4 species of land shells (42882).
HarrRimMaAN ALASKAN EXPEDITION: Received through U. 8. Geological Survey. Three boxes containing a collection of rocks and thin sections of rocks. (Transmitted to the Museum through Prof. Charles Palache.) 41844.
Harris, GRAHAM H., Chicago, Ill.: Lock Leven Trout, Salmo levenensis, Madison River, Montana. 41707.
Harris, J. H. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
from,
Harris, L. C., Genoa, Ney.: Received |
through Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. bead charm. 42493.
HARsHBARGER, Dr. JoHN W., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Thirty-one plants, North Carolina. Exchange. 41772.
Harrman, Cart, Austin, Tex.: Specimen of hymenopterous parasite. 41249.
Hartt, I. H., Manitou, Colo.: Geological specimens from various localities. Purchase. L.P. X. 41753.
Piute |
Rare principally from
Harrwetu, Mrs. CHARLES, Long Beach, |
Cal.: Specimen of IJschnochiton from San Pedro, Cal. 42227.
Harvey, Frep, Kansas City, Mo.: Fourteen Chinook skulls ( purchase ) (41387); 23 Chimehuevi baskets and 21 Nez Percé bags (purchase) L. P. X. (41388);
10 Maidu baskets (purchase) L. P. X.
(42213).
Harvey, R. V. Vancouver, British Co|
lumbia: Ten specimens of Lepidoptera. 41526.
Hasse, Dr. H. E., Soldiers’ Home, Cal.:
Four living plants from California (41226); 2 plants and 74 specimens of lichens, (41956; 42258).
Hasserr, Burperr, Reliance, Va.: Specimen of Sharp-shinned hawk, Accipiter velox. 415038.
principally from California |
Hartcu, J. W., Fruitland, N. Mex.: Mad|
stone. (Loan.) 9280.
Hatrenpor?, F. C., Western Springs, II1.: Specimen of Raspberry gall, Diastrophus turgidus Bassett. 41849.
Hautevitte, Mrs. F. C. p’, Washington, D. C.: Received through Mrs. M. B. Wheaton. Sword and pair of bullion epaulettes, to be placed with other,relics of Maj. Gen. Alexander McComb, U. S$. Army. (Loan.) 8797.
| Hawuey, E. H., U. 8. National Museum:
Whistle harmonica. 42831.
Hay, Prof. W. P. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Hayes, W. R., Skidmore, Tex.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Three plants from Texas. 42084.
Hememann, Orro, Washington, D. C.: Specimens of Limnexa from the District of Columbia. 42861. (See also under George Field. )
Heiacuway, A. E., Habana, Cuba: Received through Dr. G. P. Merrill. Four eggs of Stria jflammea furcata. 42107.
Heuter, A. A., Pacific Grove, Cal.: Two plants from California (gift) (41354); 482 plants from California (purchase) (41814); 639 plants collected by George B. Grant and J. W. Congdon in California (purchase) (41246); 2 plants
from California (gift) (41276); 285 plants from California (purchase)
(41318); plant from California (gift) (41991); 246 plants from California and Europe (purchase) (42092); 65 ferns from Europe (purchase) (42106); 20 plants from California (gift) (42280; 42591; 42605); about 60 plants from Mexico collected by C. C. Deam (gift) (42637); 10 living plants from California (exchange) (42654; 42655). HempuHi.i, Henry, San Diego, Cal.: Sixteen specimens of Amphithalmus from California (gift) (42540); photographs of west American shells illustrating variations, ete. (gift) (42614) ; 649 species or varieties of land shells from California (purchase) (42930).
Henperson, Mrs. A..P., Chicago, Ill: Six samples of beads collected hy Car] Lumboltz. 41428.

<<<Page: 150>>>

Hensuaw, H. W., Hilo, Hawaiian Is-
| Hinps, W. E.
lands: Specimens of Macruran crusta-
ceans (41484); specimen of Conus cotus L., and a slide containing a mount of teeth of the same, from Hilo (41759); crustaceans, worms, mollusks, and other invertebrates (41822) ; crustaceans and a specimen of Flyinggurnard or ‘ Robin,’’? Dactylopterus (41854); 540 specimens of Hawaiian Succineas and Achatinellas (41939); crustaceans, worms, and a fish (42062); 30 specimens of fossil land shells from
the Hawaiian Islands (42229); 3 specimens of Gephyrean worms (42259); Planarian worm (Stylochus ?) (42709); crustaceans, echinoderms, worms, and a nudibranch mollusk (42800).
Herron, W. G., U.S. Geological Survey:
Specimen of Sunflower coral, Recepta|
culites oweni, from Big Iron Mountains. |
42726.
Heusyer, Dr. Karu, Belize, British Honduras: Specimens of Trichuris trichiwra (=Trichocephalus dispar). 42323.
Hewirr, Foster, Pittsburg, Pa.: Copper ore, and specimens showing weather-
ing, from near the Choix River, Mexico. |
42573.
Herywoop, Maj. Gen. CHar.es, U.S. Marine Corps (retired ), Washington, D.C.: Loving cup of silver presented to him by the officers of the U. 8. Marine Corps, on the occasion of his retirement from the service. (Loan.) 9472.
Hickman, Dr. C. W., Augusta, Ga.: Pair of Spanish dueling pistols. ( Loan.) 8682.
Hin, E. J., Chicago, Ill.: Thiyty-seven plants from Illinois. Exchange. 42502.
tia forceps L. 42045.
Hititman, F.H. (See under J. Wheeler. )
Himatays Minrna Company, New York City: Six specimens of tourmaline from California. Purchase. L. P. X. 42599.
| Hottz, Marri, Vienna, Austria:
(See under Department of Agriculture. )
Hines, GrorGrE H., Oregon Historical Society, Portland, Oreg.: Siliceous pebbles from Oregon. 41626.
Mivxiey, A. A., Dubois, Ill.: Ninetythree specimens of mollusks from the Southern States. 42863.
Hirasp, Y., Kyoto, Japan: One thousand three hundred and fifty-one specimens of shells from Japan (41422); 1,106
specimens of Japanese mollusks (42918). Purchase. HocHpDERFFER, Col. GrorGeE, Flagstaff,
Ariz., and ©. A. Purpus, Zacatecas, Mexico: Small collection of fishes from Mexico. 42032.
Hopexr, Dr. E. R., Army Medical Museum, War Department, Washington, D. C.: Two bows, bolo, shield, spearheads, and a fishing spear from the Philippine Islands. Exchange. 42024.
Hopeman, C. M., Waterway, Va.: Two specimens of Dynastes tityus. 42689.
Hopson, FE. R., Washington, D. C.: One hundred and five plants collected at St. Regis Falls, N. Y. (41805); received through the Department of Agriculture; 44 plants from Maine (41434).
HotierituH, Herman, Washington, D. C.:
Three guns and a pistol. (Loan.) 9304. Hout, G. W., East Andover, N. H.:
42197. Eight reptiles and batrachians from Europe. Purchase. 41389.
Plant from New Hampshire.
| Hotway, E. W. D., Decorah, Iowa, and
Mexico, Mexico: Plants, seeds, and fungi from Mexico (41813; 41834; 41895; 41955; 42035; 42365; 42422).
; ie : | Horr Garpens, Botanical Department of Hiuuiarp, G. R., Springtield, Ohio.: My|
riapod representing the species Cerma|
Jamaica. (See under Kingston, Ja-
maica. )
| Hopkins, L. 8., Troy, Ohio: Beetle (Hu-
41524.
Hopkins, 8S. J., Mount Holly, Va.: Stone axe from a shell heap at the mouth of Nomini Creek, Westmoreland County, Va. 42826.
phoria inda Linneeus).

<<<Page: 151>>>

HorGan, Epwarp, U. 8. National Museum: About 25 specimens of landshells from Colonial Beach (41433) ; 18 specimens of caddis worms (42537).
Hernune, Dr. Joun, San Francisco, Cal.: Starfishes, bats, reptiles, shells, fossil, and a bird (exchange) (41952); 120 specimens of marine shells from California (gift) (42223).
Hoven, Dr. Water, U.S. National Museum: Ethnological objects collected in New Mexico (purchase) (41791); specimen of porcupine skull from Arizona; Louisiana lottery ticket, dated December 12, 1893; 12 plaster casts of medals; bound volume of ‘‘ History of the Soldiers’ Medals,’’ and an ancient document relating to the home of Wash-
ington (gifts) (41855; 41876; 41975; 42027). (See also under Dr. F. M. Zuck. )
Hovsst, H. D., Bronx Park, N. Y.: Nine specimens of Bryophyta collected in New York by Mr. W. R. Maxon and himself. 42251.
Hovey, F. L., Auburn, Me.: Specimen of pyrrhotite. 41553.
Hovey, G. U. 8., White Church, Kans.: Fourteen flint implements. 42065.
Howarp, Dr. L. O. (See under Department of Agriculture; Charles E. Jenney; H.-S. G. Titus. )
Howe, Arthur. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Howe 1, A., Lipscomb, Tex.: Specimen of cactus from Texas. 41264.
Howett, A. H., Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Fifty-five specimens of plants from New Mexico. 41507.
Howe, E. E., Washington, D. C.: Nine quartz crystals, specimen of cut smoky quartz, opal, tabular calcite, cleavage calcite, 3 quartz spheres, and a sphere of crocidolite (purchase) L. P. X. (42049); specimen of sepiolite from Eskihi-Shehr, Asia Minor (exchange) (42544); meteorites (purchase) L. P. X. (42588); meteorite from Mount Joy, Pennsylvania (gift) (42687).
HrpuitéKa, Dr. A. F., U.S. National Museum: Brainof a negro woman (41698); 3 Banderilla from Jalesco, Mexico (41708); specimen of Junco hyematlis (41794); Indian sparrow (41916); 25 brains of various birds and mammals (41976); ceremonial stick from Jalesco, Mexico, 2 bands from Huichol, Jalesco, and a pouch-band from the same locality (41980); humerus (42195); 100 brains of various kinds (42249); brain of a red squirrel, Chickarree (41254); brain of a white American adult male (41298) ; Huichol ceremonial band made on a small loom (42348).
Hupson, Joun, Dean, Mont.: Fragment ofa deer horn. 41646.
Hueues, Prof. T. McHenry. (See under Cambridge, England, Sedgwick -Museum. )
HummMet, Gustave, Luling, Tex.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Plant from Texas. 41340.
Hungate, J. W., Snoqualash, Wash.: Six plants from Washington. 41314.
HunGerrorp Brass AND Copper ComPANY, New York City: Received through Mr. B. Ris, assistant secretary. Samples of solders and alloys manufactured by the company. 41339.
Hunter, D. W. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Hunter, WixiiAm, National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C.: Plant. 42658.
InertmnGc, Dr. H. von, Museu Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil: Sixteen specimens of fresh-water shells. 41999. (See also under Sao Paulo, Brazil. )
Instituto Mrpico Nacronau. City of Mexico, Mexico. )
(See under
InTERIOR DEPARTMENT, United States Geological Survey: Rock specimens from Bennington quadrangle (41244); specimen of titanium mineral and crude petroleum (41621); sample of sand from Bebara River, Colombia (41745); 1,932 fossil insects collected by Dr. S. H. Seudder (42117); 2 specimens of dentritic limestone from Grand Canyon, Arizona (42157); specimen of fulgurite from Crested Butte, Colo.,

<<<Page: 152>>>

InrerRIoR DeEpARTMENT—Continued. collected by Mr. Whitman Cross (42211); specimen of crystallized arsenopyrite from Custer County, Colo., obtained by Mr. Cross (42212); 47 specimens of
Cretaceous ammonites, described and |
figured by Hyatt in monograph No. 44 |
of the Survey (42253); specimens of tetradymite and garnet from Colorado and California (42333); rocks illustrating the geology of the Bisbee, Ariz., quadrangle (42400); lead and zinc ore from Arkansas, and sulphur and associated rocks from Nevada (42442); collection of Tertiary fossils, including duplicates and study series, containing
about 12,000 lots of specimens, and, in — the reverse series, about 40,000 specimens, mostly determined, labeled, and |
arranged in zoological and stratigraphic order (42740); rocks from Oklahoma and Indian Territory, obtained by Mr. T. Wayland Vaughan (42776); 1,458 specimens of Cambrian brachiopods collected by the Survey and 1,842 Cambrian brachiopods collected for the National Museum by Prof. 8. Ward
’ Loper (42867); fossil plant obtained by Mr. L. M. Prindle (42888). (See also under Harriman Alaskan Expedition and Dr. David White. )
JACKSON, GEORGE, Deadwood, 8S. Dak.: Twenty-nine specimens of ore. 41992.
Jackson, 8S. E., Trinidad, British West Indies: Received through Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. Eleven carib axes and 16 specimens of lava from St. Vincent. 42915.
Jacosps, E. H. (See under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. )
JAMBUNATHAN, Prof. N. S., Native Col-
lege, Madura, India: Fifty-two spiders from India. Exchange. 42273.
James, Mrs. JunrAn—Continued. apron of master mason, and ring of Theodorus Bailey, U. S. Senator from New York in 1803 (loan) (9145); Korean fan presented to her by Prince Minionette of Korea (gift) (41785).
JANAZEROSKY, E., Cracovie, Austria: Received through Dr. E. L. Greene. Two specimens of Ribesfrom Europe. 42903.
Janson, O. E., & Son, London, England: ” Twelve hundred and fifty-one specimensof Lepidoptera. Purchase. 41571.
JAYNES, Ropert T. (See under E. Dwight Sanderson. )
JENNEY, CHARLES E., Fresno, Cal.: Received through Dr. L. O. Howard. Eight specimens of rose-gall, Rhodites . politus. 42885.
JENSEN, Herr A. §., Zoological Museum, University, Copenhagen, Denmark: Cotype of Pecten frigidus Jensen, from the North Atlantic Ocean. 42165.
JEpson, W.L., Berkeley, Cal.: Five plants
from California. 41262.
JoHn, ANDREW, Washington, D. C.: Models of baskets, etc., of the Seneca Indians. Purchase. 41513.
Jonnson, Prof. O. B., Seattle, Wash.: Seventy-three specimens of Lepidoptera. Exchange. 42539.
Agricultural Colo. )
(See under State College, Fort Collins,
JONASSOHN, Oscar T., New York City: Manufactured ruby (purchase) (41475); genuine and imitation stones (gift) (41476).
Jongs, A. W., Salina, Kans.: Received through Dr. T. W. Stanton. Concretions of silicobarite from near Bavaria, Kans. 41944.
_ Jones, Mrs. B. F., Bordentown, N. J.:
JAMES, GEORGE WHARTON, Pasadena, Cal.: |
of 41579.
Seventeen photographs women making baskets.
James, Mrs. Junian, Washington, D. C.: | Jones, McDurrer, and Srrarron Com-
Masonic relics of Hon. Mordecai. y-
ers, consisting of a jewel of past grand
master, apron of past grand master, NAT Mus 1904——9
Indian |
Colonial bill of New Jersey, ‘‘one shilling,’’ March 25, 1776. 41835.
Jones, Francis W., New York City: Photograph of eminent electricians. Purchase. 42012.
PANY, Boston, Mass.: China plate and calendar file. 42173.

<<<Page: 153>>>

Jones, Marcus E., Salt Lake City, Utah: Seven plants from Mexico and Arizona (gift and exchange) (41514; 41786; 42590).
‘JorDAN, Dr. Davin Starr. (See under Leland Stanford Junior University and Alan Owston. )
JosepH, Ler, Cuero, Tex.: Last molar of a mastodon (Mastodon americanus). 41371.
Joynss, A. L., manager of Kast Tennessee Telephone Company, Paducah, Ky.: Specimen of submarine cable laid across the Tennessee River at Paducah before the civil war. 41534.
June, A. M., Desmet, Idaho: Four fossil plants. 42834.
Kapp, Homer, Bluffton, Ind.: Received through Prof. E. B. Williamson. Specimen of Vesperrat ( Nyctomys)from Bluffton. 41833.
KarpE.ss, Dr. S. R., Washington, D. C.: |
Human fceetus; foetus; white foetus (gift) (41860; 42511; 42517); two human foetuses (exchange) (42261).
Kerarrott, W. D., New York City: Nine specimens of hymenopterous parasites (41452); 463 specimens of butterflies belonging to the family Hesperide (42076).
Kearney, T. H., Department of Agriculture: Two hundred and ten plants collected on Plummers Island, Montgom-
ery County, Md. (41450; 41461; 41467; | | Knap, Freperick, Washington, D. C.:
Ketioae, Prof. V. L., Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, |
41518).
Cal.: Cotypes of Aleyrodide represented by 24 species. 41767.
Kenpatt, Dr. W. C., Bureau of Fisheries: Two specimens of Nymphza hybrida from Aroostook County, Me. 41297. (See also under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Kennepy, Dr. Harris, Yokohama, Japan: Six bats from Japan. 42808.
KessLer, H. H., El Cajon, Cal.: Specimen of orbicular gabbro from San Diego County (41230); orbicular diorite from near San Diego (42113).
Kw, Lonpon, ENGLAND, Roya Botanic GARDENS: Two hundred and seventyeight plants from various localities (42381); living plant (42487). Exchange.
Kine, G. B., Lawrence, Mass.: Shell representing the species Limaa maimus. 41429.
Kineston, JAMAICA, HopE GARDENS, Botanical Department of Jamaica: Three specimens of ferns (Asplenium) from Jamaica. Exchange. 42411.
Kinney, Mrs. Louise Cariin, Washington, D. C.: Life-sized portrait of George Catlin, in oil, painted by a Royal Academician in 1849. (Loan.) 9419.
KINRADE, J. J., San Francisco, Cal.: Twelve specimens of minerals from va-
rious localities. Purchase. L. P. X. 41636. Kirk, W. Strokes, Philadelphia, Pa.:
42467.
Kisainouyek, Dr. K., Imperial Japanese Fisheries Bureau, Tokyo, Japan: Japanese corals (41407); received through Dr. Hugh M. Smith, 2 specimens of Salanx ariakensis and a crab (41430).
New Hall carbine, .54 caliber.
K. K. NarurHIstorRIscHES HormusEumM. (See under Vienna, Austria. )
Kuaces, E. A., Crafton, Pa.: Twentyeight specimens of Scarabeeidee (41353) ; 117 specimens of Scarabzeidee (41719); hemipteron representing. the species Scaptocoris castanea Perty, from Venezuela (41764).
Six specimens of caddis flies, a may-fly, and a wood-tick. 42725.
Know ton, Dr. F. H., U. 8. Geological Survey. Two hundred specimens of Lepidoptera from Needle Mountains and Silverton, Colo. (42386); 128 plants from Colorado (42407). (See also under H. Nebriling. )
Kwy-ScHEERER Company, New York City: Two specimens of batrachians representing the species Rana macrodactyla and Hyla simplex (purchase) (42028); 7 birds’ skins (gift) (42570).
Kornia, Apotr, Pittsburg, Pa.: Two stone hammers and two cupped stones. 42714.

<<<Page: 154>>>

KoNGELIGE FREDERIKS UNIVERSITET. (See under Christiania, Norway. )
KO6nIGLicHes BoraniscHES Museum. (See under Berlin, Germany. )
KOniIGLICHES Museum FUR NATURKUNDE. (See under Berlin, Germany. )
KonreLicHes Museum rtirk VOLKERKUNDE. (See under Berlin, Germany. )
KONIGLICHES ZOOLOGISCHES UND ANTHROPOLOGISCHES-E THNOGRAPHISCHES Museum. (See under Dresden, Germany. )
Koons, B. F., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Specimen of imax maximus Linneeus. 41521.
Krantz, Dr. F., Bonn, Germany: Two slabs of Pentacrinus (purchase) L. P. X. (41349); 204 invertebrate fossils from the Devonian of Germany and the Carboniferous of Belgium (purchase) (41903); 51 specimens of fossil shells, ammonites, crinoids, ete. (purchase) (42144) ; lumachel, chrysoprase, tridymite, and quartz from Europe (purchase) L. P. X. (42181); specimen of Steneosaurus bollensis (Jaeger) from the Lias of Holzmaden, Wurttemberg, Germany (purchase) L. P. X. (42225); specimen of Jchthyosaurus and a fossil palm (purchase) L. P. X. (42676).
Kraus, Josepa, Llano, Tex.: Three specimens of dolomitic marble (42059); 3 specimens of dendritic limestone (42809).
Kunz, G. F.. New York City: Specimen |
of californite from Indian Creek, Cali-
fornia. 42332.
Kwiat, A., Chicago, Ill.: Forty-four specimens of Lepidoptera (42274; 42713).
Lacey, Howarp, Kerrville, Tex.: Skin and 2 skulls of Odocoileus 42641.
Lamp, Dr. D.8., Army Medical Museum,
Washington, D. C.: Two cadavers of |
babies (41610); brain and body of a female baby (42277).
Lanprum, Linton D., Columbus, Miss.: Natural formation. 41487.
Lang, H. M., International Correspond-
ence Schools, Scranton, Pa.: Received |
through Dr. David White. Two speci-
texensis. |
Lane, H. M.—Continued. mens of Bothrodendron 41727.
Lane, T. T., Solomon, Alaska: Received through E. J. Noge. Butterfly representing the species Parnasius clodius var. altaurus Dyar. 41480.
Laney, F. B., State Museum, Raleigh, N. C.: Six hundred pounds of leopardite and trap dike from Charlotte, N. C. (purchase) (42060); gangue rock from Gundstaff and Buchanan mica mine, Haywood County, N. C. (42448). (See also under G. P. Merrill.)
Lane, G. L., superintendent of telegraphs, Chattanooga, Tenn.: Telegraph bracket from General Burnside’s wartime telegraph line, Pulaski County,
punctatum,
Ky. 41490. LaRABOLA MINING AND DEVELOPMENT Company, Chicago, Ill.: Received through Frank L. Race, secretary.
Samples of copper ore from mines in Madison County, Va. 42242.
Laur, F. A., Passaic, N. J.: Specimens of Dog-sucking lovse, Heematopinus piliferus Burmeister. 41457.
LAWRENCE, W. H., Pullman, Wash.: Seven slides of parasitic Hymenoptera. 41897.
Lawrence, Dr. W. J., Chicago, Ill.: Section of polished tourmaline. 41478. Lez, Dr. S. L., Carson City, Nev.: Obsidian arrowhead and two flaking tools.
42756.
Leaman, J. B., Edwards, Miss.: Specimen of Horntail, Tremex coluwmba. 42883.
| LELAND STANFORD JR. UNIVERSITY, Stan-
ford University, Cal.: Types and co-
types of fishes collected in Japan by
Dr. David Starr Jordan, Mr. J. O.
Snyder, and others (41488); received
through Prof. C. H. Gilbert, Japanese
fishes collected by Messrs. Jordan and
| Snyder (42263).
Lemon, Frank, New York City: Four busts of American Indians. Purchase. li RX 427318
| Lepper, Miss ApELAIpE, Bladensburg,
Md.: Luna moth, Actias luna Linneeus.
42643.

<<<Page: 155>>>

Lermonp, N. W., Thomaston, Me.: Fif| Lowry, Louis, Chicago, Ill.: Specimen
teen specimens of shells (41893); butterflies from Paraguay (42267). Lester, F. A., Washington, D. C.: Specimens of fossil wood from various localities in the District of Columbia (41961);
concretionary limonite and ironstone | |
concretions from the District of Columbia (41974; 42548); 25 specimens of
Upper Cretaceous mollusks from a | cutting in the Chesapeake Beach Rail|
road (42717). LEvINSEN, Prof. G. M. R. Copenhagen, Denmark. ) LimperG, F., Ladd Lime Company, Cartersville, Ga.: Crab spider, Acrosoma
(See under
gracili Walck (= Eperia rugosa Hentz). |
41259.
Lirtir, Dr: G. W., Glens Falls, N. Y.: Specimen of Crimson tragopan (41917); specimen of Impeyan pheasant (42305).
LockHART, Henry, jr., Barranca del Cobre, Chihuahua, Mexico: Specimen of Mycetophilid, a family allied to the mosquitoes. 41801.
Locrarr, Wiui1aAM, Washington, D. C.: |
Large specimen of Small-mouthed Black bass, Micropterus dolomei, from the Potomac River. 41808.
Lorsner, Tu., Berlin, Germany: Five
plants from Guatemala. 42008. Lonpon, ENGLAND, British MusrumM
(NaturAL History): Six bats. 42485.
Lorrer, Prof. S. Warp.
Survey. )
Lovett, Epwarp, England: Specimens of ‘‘tribulum,’’ or harrow flint, and other folk-lore objects (exchange) (42021); 3 pieces of Maundy money of Edward VII, of the issue of 1904 (42612).
Lowes, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: Twelve specimens of Anomurans (Blepharipoda) (41228); marine shells including types of several new species from Long Beach (42057) ; 16 specimens of marine shells from California (42166, 42228); crustaceans (42663).
Croydon,
Lowrie, E. D., Elyria, Ohio: About one hundred specimens of amphipods from Elyria. 42326.
(See under In| terior Department, U. 8. Geological |
of copper ore from Milans Gap. Exchange. 42159.
Lucas, F. A., U. S. National Museum: Brain of a walrus (41477); skin of Snowy owl, Lgretta —candidissima (41971); crustaceans and worm parasites from Newfoundland (42257).
Lumwottz, Cart. (See under Mrs. A. P.
Henderson. ) Lusk, R. D., Lansing, Mich.: Four eggs
So and a nest of Myiarchus lawrencei olina-
scensfrom Arizona. Purchase. 41781.
Lurz, FRANK E., Station for Experimental Eyolution, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, New York: Eight specimens of Hemiptera. 42850.
Lyon, Dr. M. W., U.S. National Museum: Three specimens of Nymphza variagata (Engelm) Miller (41346); 24 plants from New Jersey (41441); 2 specimens of Mus inusculus (42055).
Lywoop, L. W., Gainsville, Va.: Speci-
men of Blue-winged teal, Querquedula discors. 42503.
| Mac Fappgn, C. K., Beaumont, Tex.:
Snake (Elaps fulvius) from Hardin County, Tex. 41982.
McCauuin, Dr. 8. W., Geological Survey of Georgia, Atlanta, Ga.: New species of Pentremites (42792); received through Dr. David White, specimen of Tregonocarpum ampulleforme from the.Carboniferous of Georgia (42844).
McC.ienpon, J. F., University of Texas, Austin, Tex.: One hundred and twentyfive specimens of dragon-flies. Purchase. 42155.
McComs, Maj. Gen. Aurx. (See under
Mrs. F. C. d’ Hautville. ) McComp, G. T., Lockport, N. Y.: Specimens of Rochester shales fossils. 41711. McCoy, P. H., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen of Melanopsis jordanica. 42515. McCreapy, 8. M., Green Lake Station, Seattle, Wash.: Longicorn beetle, Hrgates spiculatus Le Conte. 42180. McDowe 1, J. A., City of Mexico, Mexico: Plant from Mexico. 42082.

<<<Page: 156>>>

McEuwee, W., Washington, D. C:: Flicker, or Golden-winged woodpecker, Colaptes auratus. 42579. |
McGer, W J, Washington, D. C.: Skull of a Nebraska Indian. (Loan.) 8641. | (See also under Smithsonian Institu| tion, Bureau of American Ethnology.) |
McGrecaor, Mrs. A. M., Mamaroneck, N. Y.: Two specimens of Voluta juno| nia from Florida. 42541.
McGreaor, R. C., Philippine Museum, Manila, P. I.: Specimens of mollusks and myriapods from the Philippine Islands and the United States (42346); butterflies from Calangan Island | (42566).
McGuire, J. D. Institution. )
McKay, C. M., Portland, Oreg.: Three specimensofagate. Purchase. L. P. X. 41634.
Mcki, C. E. (See under Pennsylvania Railroad Company. )
McKnew, C. A. (See under B. A. Bean. )
McKusicx, M. N., Calais, Me.: Specimen of molybdenite from Cooper mine, Cooper, Me. 41721.
McLean, D., Rampart, Alaska: Received through Dr. T. W. Wilcox, U.S. A. (retired). Horns of a fossil bison with partial crania. 41710.
McLeEay, Mrs. J. J.. Washington, D. C.: Basket and four beaded collars from California (purchase) (41780); 2 squirrel-skin robes (gift) (42843).
McLe.uan, Capt. C. H., U. S. Revenue| Cutter Service: Stone arrowhead and wooden spearhead. (Loan.) 9112.
Mapetry, WituiaAm, Stourbridge, England: Specimens of Wenlock shales | bryozoans. Exchange. 42459.
(See under Carnegie
MaGatnagrs, ANTonio M., Jr., Sao Paulo, Brazil, South America: Received | through Dr. Orville A. Derby. Three | specimens of fossil wood from Lagoa station, on the Mogyana Railroad near Casa Branca, Sao Paulo. 42836.
Masor, Dr. C. T. Forsyth, British Mu| seum (Natural History), London, Eng| land: Ten skeletons and 2 skulls of mammals. Purchase. 41562.
Man, Dr. J. G. de, Ierseke, Zeeland, Holland: Received through Miss M. J. Rathbun. Two specimens of freshwater crabs (Potamon converus), from Java. 41894.
MANHATTAN ELEcTRiIcAL Suppty Company, New York City: Received through Mr. ©. A. Stimpson. Morse telegraph apparatus, consisting of a relay, sounder, and key. 41948.
MINERAL ‘SPRINGS COMPANY, Manitou, Colo.: Received through Mr. W. A. Davis. Specimens of Manitou mineral water. 42543.
Marston, Weir, Fort Snelling, Minn.: Salamander 41523.
Manitou
(Ambystoma — tigrinum).
' Martin, A. F., Jersey Shore, Pa.: Long-
sting, Megarhyssa lunator Fabr. 41252.
Marvin, Dr. M. F., U. 8. Army, Manila, P. I.: Reptiles; ferns and insects; 3 specimens of Mole-crickets; insects, spiders, myriapods, and algze (42119, 41291, 41412, 42276).
Mason, Prof. O. T., U.S. National Museum: Report of the inaugural ceremonies of President Cleveland and Vice-President Stevenson, 1898. 41716.
Mason, R. F., Carbondale, Pa.: Whitney revolver. Loan. 42925.
MassEy, CHARLES F., Salisbury, N. C.: Specimen of granite from near Salisbury. 42224. (See also under Dr. G. P. Merrill. )
Marner, JAMeEs E., Muskegon, Mich.: Fresh-water shells from Michigan. Exchange. 41668.
Marscuiz, Dr. Paut. (See under Konigliches Museum fiir Naturkunde, Berlin, Germany.
Dr. S., Sapporo, Japan:
Fifty-nine specimens of parasitic Hy-
menoptera (41762); through Dr. W. H.
Ashmead, 267 specimens of Hymenop-
tera (42475).
| Maxon, W, R., U. S. National Museum:
Bat, 40 cryptogams, specimen of Vespertilio from Plummers Island (41440, 41466, 41338); 6 plants from the District of Columbia (41323); 2 specimens of Botrychium from central New York (42504). (See also under H. D. House. )

<<<Page: 157>>>

134 “Mayer, Mrs. Harrier H. (See under Smithsonian Institution. )
Maynarp, G. C., U. 8. National Museum: . Twenty-three electrical instruments. (Loan.) 8914.
Meapor, Curnton W., Corinth, Miss.: Received through Dr. G. P. Merrill. Four flint arrowheads from Cherokee County, N.C. 42146.
Mearns, Dr. E. A.,,U. S. Army: Fourteen mammal skins and skulls, birds and mollusks from Forest Grove, Oreg. (41234); 6 birds’ eggs, 3 shells and a spruce cone (41250); 96 plants from Oregon, Idaho, and Washington (41258); tree toad from Oregon and a pine cone from Idaho (41358); 7 specimens of unios from Fort Snelling, Minn.
(41596); about 75 specimens of land |
and fresh-water shells, plant, and a bird
from the Philippine Islands (41889) ;
39 birds’ skins from the
Philippine |
Islands (41915, 41953); 62 plants, about |
60 specimens of land, fresh-water, and marine shells from Mindanao (41962); about 12 specimens of land shells from Camp Overton, Mindanao (42037) ; about 170 specimens of mollusks, 3 corals, 6 geological specimens, 2 plants, and a bird from Mindanao (42063); 5 plants from the Philippine Islands (42136); ethnological’ material, mollusks, mammals, birds, birds’ nests, insects, echinoderms, corals, plants, and minerals from the Phillippine Islands (42201, 42230); mollusks, mammals, birds, crustaceans, plants, minerals, and ethnological specimens from the Philippine Islands (42403, 42453) ; Spanish Remington cartridge and a Mauser cartridge (42795).
Mearns, Louis di Z., Circleville, Ohio: Seventy-seven birds’ skins, principally from Fort Snelling, Minn. (deposit) (41292); 113 birds’ eggs and 5 birds’
nests from Fort Snelling (gift) (41312); |
rocks and fossils from the Yellowstone
National Park and Fort Snelling (gift)
(41367). MEEKER, Dr. J. W., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Specimens of <Apanteles congregatus
Meeker, Dr. J. W.—Continued. (Say), belonging to the superfamily Ichneumonidee and family Braconide. 42320.
Meanper, Prof. A. L. (See under New Mexico Agricultural College. )
MELVILLE, J. C., Brook House, Prestwich, England: Seven species of shells from the Persian Gulf. 41515.
MemortaLt Museum, Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, Cal.: Received through
Mr. F. Gruber, curator. Fifteen birds’ skins from California. Exchange. 42366.
Mencet, Prof. L. W., Reading, Pa.: Eight specimens of Lepidoptera from Greenland and Florida. Exchange. 42675.
Merriam, Dr. C. H. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Merrick, H. D. New Brighton, Pa. Received through Dr. H. G. Dyar. Kighty specimens of Lepidoptera. 42174.
Merribew, Mrs. M. C. W., Long Beach, Cal.: Specimen of Chiton from California and a specimen of Astarte from Washington. 42648.
Merriti, Dr. Grorer P., U. S. National Museum: Home-made magnifieror burning-glass from Auburn, Me. (41316): rocks from Blue Ridge, southeast of Luray, Va. (41380); specimen of trap rock from Sheepscot River, near Westport, Me. (41386); snake(Storeria dekayi) from the Island of Springs, Sheepscot Bay, Maine (41400); specimens of coprolites from Fossil, Wyo. (41616) ; about 2,000 pounds of jaspery hematite from Ishpeming, Mich. (41637), L. P. X.; about 2,000 pounds of rhodochrosite from Butte, Mont. (41638); specimen of fossil wood from Gallatin County, Mont. (41661), L. P. X.; specimen of Horned toad, Phrynosoma brevirostre, from Madison Valley, near Logan, Mont. (41688); muscovite granite from the Great Falls of the Potomac, Maryland (41778); geyser tubes from near Opal, Uinta County, Wyo. (collected for L. P. X.) (41827); large mass of

<<<Page: 158>>>

Merriti, Dr. GEorcE P.—Continued. leopardite from Charlotte, N. C. (41922) ;
granite from Lilesville, N. C. (41947); |
specimen of rough granite from Advance, N. C., collected for the Museum by C. F. Massey (41989); rocks, fresh
and weathered, from North Carolina, |
collected by F. B. Laney (42264); specimens of granite from North Caro-
lina (42702); collection of limonite |
pseudomorphs and specimens illustrating the origin of iron ore, from the Katahdin Iron Works, Piscataquis County, Me. (42905); mica, apatite, and associated minerals from Perkins, near East Templeton, Canada (42906); Caen stone from Christ Church Cathedral, Montreal, Canada (42920). (See also under A. E. Heighway, George Jackson, C. W. Meador, and A. T. Roos. )
Merritt, Dr. G. P. and William Palmer, | Rocks and |
U. S. National Museum: fossils from Mexico. 42455.
MeErRILL, J. F., Orono, Me.: Three specimens of quartz from near Auburn, Me. le Ee Xe 416415
Mercatr, A. B., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.: Plant from New Mexico. 42880.
Mercaur, Prof. M. M., The Woman’s College, Baltimore, Md.: One hundred
and thirty specimens of Lepidoptera.
Exchange. 42778.
Merz, W. C., Columbus, Ohio: Twentyfive moths. 42342.
Mexico, City of Mexico: Seven plantsfrom |
Mexico collected under the direction of Dr. Fernando Altamirano. 41011. (See also under Instituto Medico Nacional. )
Meyer, Dr. A. B. Germany: Kénigliches und Anthropologisches-Ethnographisches Museum.)
Meyer, FranK N., Orizaba, Mexico: Four plants from Mexico. 42847.
Meynckg, O. M., Belfield, Va.: One hundred and seven plants from Virginia (42744; 42799; 42842).
Micuigan, University of, Ann Arbor, Mich.: Received through C. C. Adams,
(See under Dresden, | Zoologisches |
MicuiGan, University of—Continued. curator. Ten birds’ skins from Paraguay. 42128.
Mickwirz, Dr. Auaust, Ingenieur, Reval, Estland, Russia: Fifty specimens of Cambrian fossils and 250 specimens of Ordovician fossilsfrom England. 41882.
Miter, Dr. B. F., Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa.: About 42 specimens, partly types of new species, of fossil Cerion, Helicina, and Cepolis from the Bahama Islands (Pleistocene). 42865.
Mitier, Mrs. E. P., Alexandria, Va.: Specimen of Turkey buzzard. 42395.
Mituer, Miss E. R., Cleveland, Ohio: Oak-gall representing the species Cal-
| lirhytis corniger O. 8. (41247); 4 species of galls (41489). Mititer, Gerrit §., jr., U. S. National
Museum: Reptiles, mollusks, and plants from Stony Man Mountain, Virginia (41256); mollusks and plants from Luray, Va. (41287); 2 specimens of Brunus from near Alexandria, Va. (41402); water-lily obtained in Indiana by Mr. Paul Bartsch (41572); frog (Chorophilus feriarum) from Cameron Run, Fairfax County, Va. (41664); specimen of Pieris mariana from Virginia (41729); salamanders from Stony Man Mountain, Virginia (42718); 57 plants from New York and Virginia (42748; 42783); plant from Virginia (41846); fresh-water and Jand shells from Stony Man Mountain, Virginia (42862); 22 plants from Virginia and Texas (42300).
Miuuer, Miss Vrrarnta. _ (See under National Society of the Colonial Dames cf America. )
| Miter, W. S., Pagosa Springs, Colo.: Specimen of soap-weed rope. 42220.
Miuis, Mrs. Mary E. (See under Mrs. Catherine A. Carter.)
Mitts, OWEN W., Millberry, Mass.: Soapstone utensils and implements. 42022.
Miner, H. K., Birmingham, Ala.: Snake (Osceola elapsoidea). 41551.
Minnesota, University of, Mineapolis, Minn.: Ten specimens of Lacinaria scariosa. 41283.

<<<Page: 159>>>

Minor, F. 8., U. S. Mint, New Orleans, La.: Specimen of Stinging caterpillar, the larva of Empretia stimulea Clemens. 41576.
MisenHEIMER, M. A., Roseburg, Oreg.: Tree-frog, Hyla regilla. 41614.
Missourt BoranicAL GARDEN, St. Louis, Mo.: Mexican plant (42589); plant (42872). Exchange.
MircuHe tt, Dr. F. E., Washington Asylum Hospital, Washington, D. C.: Foetus; brain of a colored woman; skeleton of
a negro (41672; 41693) (gift); (purchase). (41904). MircHeLt, Mr. Henry, care Tweedy
Trading Company, New York City: Skin of an albatross from the coast of Chile. 41544.
MircHett, Hon. J. D., Victoria, Tex.: |
White worm, ant (Lobopelta septentrionalis), beetle ( Cryptobium lecontei), earwig (Libidura riparia Pall), specimen of nematode (41613); 2 carapaces of Callinectes sapidus from Old Indianola, Tex. (41872); insects and reptiles from near Victoria (42036); 12 specimens of Planorbis obstricta Mor., from Texas (42328); snake (Glauconia dulcis) and 2 parasitic worms of the genus Tenia (42824).
Miyasima, Dr. M., Tokio, Japan: Twentysix adult and four vials containing early stages of Japanese mosquitoes, representing about 14 species. 42727.
Monter, Dr. Jonn R. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Moorrs, Mrs. F. H., Elizabeth City, N. C.: Carved oak cane made of wood taken from the old U.S. 8. Hartford (42711); sword used by Gen. Benjamin Mooers of the Continental Army (42712).
Mooney, JAMES. (See under Smithso-
nian Institution, Bureau of American |
Ethnology. )
Moork, CLARENCE B., Philadelphia, Pa.: Specimen of ‘‘Piffer,’’? Lagocephalus levigatus. 41927.
Moore, J. H., Washington, D. C.: Zine ore from North Star mine, Crooked Creek, near Harrison, Ark. 41459.
Morerra, Prof. Carlos. (See under National Museum of Rio de Janeiro, Zoological station. )
Moraan, Dr. E. L., Washington, D. C.: White male foetus. 42611.
Morritu, Dr. A. D., received through Dr. H. T. Fernald, Hatch Experiment Station, Amherst, Mass. Three cotypes of bees, Bombus cooleyi Morrill and 2 of Psithyrus latitarsus Morrill. 41424.
Morritu, A. W. of Agriculture. )
Morris, E. L., Washington, D.C.: Thirteen plants from Nebraska. Exchange. 42613.
Morris, E. W., Marine Barracks, Washington, D. C.: Silver peso minted in the United States for circulation in the Philippine Islands. (Loan.) 8873.
(See under Department
Morris, G. E., Waltham, Mass.: Brachiopod crustaceans (42664) 12; specimens of Asellus (42737).
Jegoviys di, Jala, Mbomeni« 42924.
Morrison, Va.:
Aphids.
Morss, E. V., Lorain, Ohio: Specimens of Gyroceras and Conocardium from the Corniferousof Sandusky, Ohio. 42491.
MortensEN, Prof. TH. (See under Copenhagen, Denmark, Zoological Museum. )
Morton, ALEXANDER, Curator, Tasmania Museum, Hobart Town, Tasmania: Obsidian ‘‘ button’’ from Glenely, Victoria, New South Wales. 41723.
Moscow, Russta; Muskum or THE InPERIAL UNrIversity: Five casts of teeth of Mastodon borsoni. 418381.
Mosetey, E. L., Sandusky, Ohio: Thirty-six plants from Ohio (exchange) (41887); 8 plants from Ohio (gift) (42553); bat (Lasiurus borealis) with 3 young specimens (exchange) (42871).
Moutrton, Hon. Groree H., U. 8. consul, Demerara, British Guiana: Thirteen eges of Hoatzin, Opisthocomus hoatzin. (42567; 42669.) Purchase L. P. X.
Mowsray, Louis, St. George, Bermuda: Specimen of fish (Scorpena sp.), from

<<<Page: 160>>>

sf LIST OF
Mowsray Lovis—Continued. Castle Harbor, and 3 specimens of fossil land shells (41907); 12 specimens of Helix (Eupanypta) pisana Mill from Bermuda (42165); 33 specimens of mollusks and 38 specimens of crustaceans from Bermuda (42292).
MULLIKEN, Eare, University of California, Berkeley, Cal.: Plant from Cali-
fornia. 42592. Munro, G. C., Molokai, Sandwich Islands: Plant. 41341.
Murauionpno, Sefior PRUDENCIO DE, consul-general of Paraguay, Baltimore, Md.: Specimen of phosphate rock from South Carolina, representing the Charleston deposit. 42050.
Murray, T. P., president North Carolina Corundum Company, Corundum, N. C.: Corundum and associations of rocks and minerals. 41628.
MuSEED’ HISTOIRE NATURELLE. (See under Paris, France. )
Museum oF CoMPARATIVE ZooLoay, Cambridge, Mass.: Received through Dr. Walter Faxon. Five specimens of crabs from the Hawaiian Islands. 42868.
Museum or Fine Arts, Boston, Mass.: Received through Mr. M. S. Prichard, director. Plaster casts of Aretine OG We 1 Go 2B YAlle
Musrum or THE IMPERIAL UNIVERSITY. (See under Moscow, Russia.)
Museu PAutista. Brazil. )
Nacx, CuHartes, Bahia, Brazil, South America: Crystals of phlogopite from Bahia. 42098.
(See under Sao Paulo,
Nationa Museum or Rio dE JANEIRO, Zoological section, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, South America: Received through Prof. Carlos Moreira. Four alcoholic specimens (cotypes) of crustaceans from Brazil. 41824.
NATIONAL Socrery Dames or America: Through Miss Virginia Miller. Colonial mold for pewter spoons. (Loan.) 8546.
NaTIONAL Socrety oF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION, through Mrs. C. W. Fairbanks, — presidentgeneral: Six framed photographs and record shield of the society (9279); water-colored sketch of Continental Hall (9395); received through Mrs. J. KE. Estey, chairman of Revolutionary relics committee, Brattleboro, Vt., framed facsimile of the agreement of General Lafayette to serve in the Continental Army; framed Martha Washington stamp; cotton patchwork quilt; blue and white patchwork quilt made by the niece of Ethan Allen; 2 blue and white platters from Mrs. Bruce, of Quaker City Chapter, formerly the property of Caleb Cushing; received through Mrs. Fairbanks, 11 Revolutionary relics; also the following publications of the Society: ‘American Monthly Magazine of the National Society of the D. A. R.;’’ ‘‘Report of the D. A. R. to the Smithsonian Institution;’’ ‘‘ Directory of the D. A. R.;’’ gold souvenir spoon, souvenir porcelain with insignia of the Society, consisting of a large cup and saucer, a small cup and saucer, and asmall pitcher; and a framed photograph of three badges conferred by the Society on founders and for special service (9259). (Loan. )
Narrress, THomas, St. Andrews Manse, Amherstburg, Ontario, Canada: Twentyone Corniferous fossils from Essex County, Ontario, and 75 Hamilton fossils from Bartletts Mills, Ontario. 41921.
Navas, Rev. R. P. L., Colegio del Salvador, Zaragoza, Spain: Twenty-eight south European Neuropteroid insects including an Embiid, 4 specimens of Termitidee, 2 of Odonata, 4 of Myrmeleonidee, and 17 of Chrysopidie (42581); 14 Neuropteroid insects (42596); 50 specimens of Odonata and 7 of Myrmeleonidee from Spain (42828). Exchange.
NEEDHAM, Prof. J. G., Lake Forest, Il.: Eighty-six specimens of dragon-fly nymphs of North America. 41805.
Newriinc, H., Gotha, Fla. Received through Dr. F. H. Knowlton: Two plants from Florida. 42634.

<<<Page: 161>>>

Neuson, A., Laramie, Wyo.: One thousand one hundred and two plants from Utah, Nevada, and Wyoming. Purchase. 41415.
NELSON, E. W., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Two hundred and one plants from Mexico (41327; 41328; 41330); primitive spinning wheel and dresses of 2 Maya women (41977); eggs of Mexican birds (42154). Purchase. (See also under Department of Agriculture and Mrs. N. M. Brown.)
NerwHa tt, W. H., U.S. National Museum: Concretions of ferruginous sandstone. 42716.
Newman, W. O., Meridian, Miss.: Specimen of Quercus pumila from Mississippi. 42481.
New Mexico AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Mesilla Park, N. Mex. Received through Prof. A. M. Melander, Univ. of Chicago: Five types of Mutillide, comprising Mutilla hamata Melander; M. heber Mel.; M. arebus Mel.; M. trita Mel., and M. grate Mel. 41674.
Newton, Mrs. Cuartes H., Washington, D. C.: Canary bird. 42350.
New York BotranicaAL GARDEN, Bronx Park, New York City: Two plants
(exchange) (41267); 4 plants (exchange) (41268); 280 specimens of
Pteridophyta collected in Jamaica by Dr. L. M. Underwood (exchange) (41269); 3 plants (parts of types) from Texas, Louisiana, and Mexico (exchange) (41336); 148 plants from Colorado (gift) (41703); 4 plants from different localities in the United States
(exchange) (41886); plant from Mex| 144 plants (ex-
ico (gitt) (41913); change) (42014); 2 plants from New York and California (gift) (42088); 82 plants from Martinique, Guadeloupe, Florida, and other localities (exchange ) (42089); 2 plants (exchange) (42093); plant (exchange) (42187); 245 plants from Colorado (exchange) (42303); 500 plants from Jamaica (exchange) (42554); 2 plants (exchange) (42813); through Dr. N. L. Britton, 4 plants (exchange) (42904).
Nicnots, F. H., Perkinsville, Vt.: Specimen of asbestos from Weathersfield, Vt. 42700.
NicHots, G. E., New Haven, Conn.: One hundred and sixty plants from Jamaica. Purchase. 42286.
Nicuots, Dr. J. B., Garfield Hospital, Washington, D. C.: Brain of a white American adult male. 41293.
Noas, E. J. (See under T. T. Lane. )
Norton, Prof. RicHarp, Rome, Italy: Four casts from reliefs from the Arch of Trajan. Purchase. L.P.X. 42866.
Nurse, Maj. C. G., Thirteenth Bombay Infantry, Quetta, Baluchistan, India: Forty-three species of Indian Ceropalidee (new to Museum collection) (gift) (41858); 130 species of Hymenoptera from India (exchange) (42496).
Nyxanper, O. O., Newsweden Station, Me.: Seven specimens of amphipods from Caribou stream, Woodland, Aroostook County, Me. (42011); 20 specimens of Helderbergian fossils from Ashland, Me. (42148); supposed meteoric iron (42233).
O’Rettiy, Dr. R. M. Department.
(See under War
OBERHOLSER, H. C. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Oapen, Dr. H. V., Milwaukee, Wis.: Fifteen batrachians. 42123.
Ouproyp, Mrs. T. S., Los Angeles, Cal.: Fifty-four specimens of marine shells from California. (41847; 42152.)
Oupys, Henry, Washington, D. C.: Two plants from the District of Columbia. 42926. (See also under Dr. J. E. Benedict.)
Orcutt, C. R., San Diego, Cal.: Plants from California. (Exchange and gift. ) (41298; 41597; 42183; 42753.)
Orb, Maj. James C., U. S. Army, Chevy Chase, Md.: Two buffalo robes. 42860.
Orp, Mrs. J. P., Albany, N. Y.: Glass berry dish presented to Gen. E. O. C. Ord, U.S. Army, by General Diaz, of Mexico, and said to have belonged to Hernando Cortez. Loan. 8948.

<<<Page: 162>>>

Ossorn, Prof. H. F., American Museum of Natural History, New York City: Kight casts of feet of fossil horses. Exchange. 41655. (See also under American Museum of Natural History.)
OSBORNE, J. E., Norwalk, Ohio. Received through Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. Two iron axes of the pioneer period of the Northwest, probably of French origin (42330); Iroquoian antiquities from Georgian Bay (42494).
Osaoop, W: H., Washington, D. C.: “Plant from Alaska. 42854. (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
Osiar, E. J., Alcott, Colo.: One hundred and fifty specimens of Lepidoptera
(gift) (42809; 42310; 42317; 42368; 42436); 260 specimens of Orthoptera
from Arizona and New Mexico (purchase) (42697).
Osmun, A. V., Amherst, Mass.: Specimen of Equisetum scirpoides from Connecticut. 42121.
Ouvres, Fetrx F., Buenos Aires, Argentina: Aboriginal remains from the province of Catamarca. 42720.
Owern, Vircin W., Los Angeles, Cal.: Twenty-nine moths (42603); 2 speci-
mens of turtle (Kinosternon) from Arizona (42921). Owston, ALAN, Yokohama, Japan. Re-
ceived through Dr. David 8. Jordan: Specimen of Mitsukurina owstoni from Sagami Bay, Japan (purchase) (42120); 2 reptiles from Bonin Island, Japan gift) (42639).
OxrorD, MusrEuM oF THE UNIVERSITY OF, Merton College, Oxford, England. Received through W. F. R. Weldon: Three enlarged models of teeth of an embryonic Ornithorhynchus. 42186.
Oztas, J. W., Lawrence, Kans.: Parts of uniforms, documents, cartridges, shells, ete., obtained in the Philippine Islands. 41609.
Oz1as, O. O. (See under Computing Scale Company, Dayton, Ohio. )
Pace, Lutu, Temple, Tex.: Eight plants, including Solidago canadensis scabrius-
Pace, Lutu—Continued. cula Porter; Eryngium leavenworthii T. and G.; Euphorbia bicolor Engelm.; Andropogon scoparius Michx.; Andropogon hallii Hack., 2 specimens, and Chrysopogon nutang (L.) Benth (41595); plant from Texas (42741).
PackarpD, Mrs. 8S. A., Brockton, Mass.: Small hand-made cushion. 41549.
Paeuiucut, F. D., Habana, Cuba: Specimen of Pipefish, Siphostoma louisiane (?) from Pablo, Cuba. 41410.
Pang, J. H., Catalina Island, Cal.: Two marine shells. 41482.
Painter, J. H., U. S. National Museum: Four plants (41368); Sphinx-moth from Toluca, Mexico (41929); specimen of Senecio from Fairfax County, Va. (42001); 167 plants from Pennsylvania and New Jersey (42789).
PaacHeE, Prof. CHARLES. (See under Harriman Alaskan Expedition. )
Patmer, G. W., Knik, Cooks Inlet, Alaskan: Grizzly bear, Ursus horribilis, from the head of Knik Arm. Purchase. LP X) 415630
PALMER, JosePpH, U.S. National Museum: Snake (Ophibolus rhombomaculatus). 42750. ,
Patmer, Dr. T.S., Department of Agriculture: Plaster cast of Calodontotherium palmeri, a fossil vertebrate. 42142.
PautmMer, WiuuiAM, U. S. National Museum: Three hundred and twenty-eight plants from Newfoundland (41362) ; frog from St. Johns (41776); 29 specimens of Diptera, 5 specimens of Lepidoptera, and 2 specimens of Coleoptera (42194); 2 specimens of Succinea, 26 birds’ skins, whale feed, Rhoda inermis (Kroyer) from Newfoundland (42226; 42239; 42294); 12 plants from Arizona (42329) ; reptiles and plants from Mexico (42456; 42472); 41 plantsfrom Missouri (42797) ; 7 birds’ skins from West Mexico (42830) ; crustaceans and echinoderms from Guaymas, Mexico (42870) ; 75specimens of marine shells from La Pas, Lower California (42879).
PautMerR, WILLIAM, and George P. Merrill, U.S. National Museum: Rocks and fossils from Mexico. 42455.

<<<Page: 163>>>

Pans, A. B., Gaffney, 8. C.: Two fossil plants from Lafollette, Tenn. 42167. Paret, Mrs. A. E. B., Sweetwater, Tex.:
Two plants from Texas. 41608.
Paris, France, Musée d’ Histoire Naturelle: Received through Count Robert du Buysson. Twenty-five specimens of wasps belonging to the family Vespide. Exchange. 42499.
Parkuurst, Mrs. Chara, Washington, D. ©.: Two cockroaches (Blatta orientalis Linneeus ) 42840.
Parks, Miss M. A., U. S. National Museum: Fossils, crustaceans, and a piece of coral, bird skin, 45 specimens of land, fresh-water, and marine shells, bat, 5 specimens of Labroid fishes, tooth of a fossil shark, from the Azores. 41561.
Parsons, Miss M. E., San Rafael, Cal.: Two specimens of Polypodium from California (41798; 42116).
ParTELLO, Maj. J. M. T., U. S. Army, Presidio, San Francisco, Cal.: Syntomid moth (Syntomis). 41366.
PassMORE Gem Company, Boston, Mass. : Emerald matrix from North Carolina; ruby matrix from North Carolina, and a paste model of a brilliant (gift)
(41473); 11 models showing styles of |
cutting gems (purchase) (41474).
Parrick, Prof. D. 8., Fort Smith, Ark.: Spider (Ordgarius cornigerus Hentz). 41657.
Parrick, F. A., Palestine, Tex.: Larva of a Chrysopa-fly. 41281.
PeaBopy Musreum, Boston, Mass.: Received through C. C. Willoughby. Casts of Quirigua Dwarf and Sastanquique sculpture. Purchase. L. P. X. 42489.
PEALE, E. W., through Dr. A. C. Peale, U.S. National Museum: Oil portrait of Prof. S. F. B. Morse, by Schussele. 41919.
PEARSALL, RicHarpD F., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Four galls and 18 specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera. 41851.
Prarson, CHARLES H. gea Clock Company. )
(See under Chel-
PecxHam, Prof. G. W., Public Library, Milwaukee, Wis.: Two moths. 42922.
PELLEGRIN, A. L., Nogales, Ariz.: Nugget of native silver. 42449. :
PELLIGRINI, WILHELM, Chemnitz, Germany:,Cast of fish (Forrelenbarsch) . 42890.
PENAFIEL, Dr. Anronto, Mexico, Mexico:
Casts of Mexican antiquities. Purchase. L. P. X. 42584.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD Company, Pittsburg, Pa.: Received through C. E. McKim, superintendent of telegraph. Four old telegraph insulators, 3 Morse telegraph keys, and a Morse telegraph relay. 41460.
Prepoon, H. L., Chicago, Ill.: Twentythree specimensof violets. Exchange. 41361.
Perpew, A. G., Cumberland, Md.: Slab of Arthrophycus harlani from Wills Creek Gap, near Cumberland. 41942.
PERGANDE, THEO., Department of Agriculture: Two specimens of dragonflies and three specimens of mayflies from Minneapolis, Minn. 41654.
Perkins, R. C. L., Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands: Received through Department of Agriculture. Four cotypes of Echthrodelphax fairchildii Perkins, from Oahu. 41648.
Perers, Maj. GEORGE. sonian Institution. )
(See under Smith-
PrysterR, Gen. JOHN WATTS DE. under Smithsonian Institution, War Department.)
Prorptr, O. F., Rutherford, N. J.: Specimen of chalcedony from Mexico and pectolite from West Paterson, N. J. Exchange. 42061.
Pua.en, W. C., U. 8. National Museum: Specimens of manganese and iron ores from Crimora and Elkston, Va.; also mastodon bones from Cave Station, Va. 42715. (See also under Frank W.
’ Wood. )
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS, MANILA, BUREAU OF Aaricutrure: Received through U. 8. Department of Agriculture. Two thousand four hundred and_ forty-three plants and specimens of cellular crypto-
(See and

<<<Page: 164>>>

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS, ETC.—Continued. gams from the Philippine Islands
(41279; 41699; 42140); 917 plants from |
the Botanical Garden of Java (42090). Exchange.
PuHivipPINE Museum, Manila, P. I.: Received through Hon. DeanC. Worcester. One hundred and ninety-four birds’
skins from the Philippine Islands. |
41856.
Pierce, FRANK C., Dallas, Tex.: About 100 plants from Europe. 41883.
Piuspry, Dr. H. A., Academy of Natural
Exchange.
Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.: About 60 |
" specimensof land and fresh-water shells from Mexico (41720); 7 specimens of Holospira from Cave Creek, Chiricahua Mountains and Fort Bowie, (42661).
Preer, Prof. C. V., Department of Agriculture: Six hundred and four plants from Washington (41667); received through Department of Agriculture, 54 type specimens of plants principally from Washington, D. C. (41806); 25 specimens of Decticine (42268); large collection of insects, consisting of 2,930
specimens from Washington (State) — (42343); 8 plants from Washington |
H 6 ; insects from Wash(42390; 42636); 48 i ts f Wasl
ington and Idaho (42668); 96 plants |
from Washington (42674); 5 plants from California (42812). der Department of Agriculture; Washington Agricultural College, Pullman, Wash. )
Piers, 8. A., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Three plants from Louisiana. 41574.
Prret, A., Tournai, Belgium: Three hundred and ninety-four specimens of Lower Carboniferous invertebrates, collected by Mr. Charles Schuchert. Purchase. 41839.
Pitter, H., San José, Costa Rica: Three hundred and twelve plants from Costa Rica (purchase) (41857; 42279; 42282); 109 plants (purchase) (42281){ specimen of Asplenium from Costa Rica (gift) (42412).
PiumMER, Frep. G. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Ariz. |
(See also un|
| PocaTELLO GoLp AND CopprR MINING Company, Pocatello, Idaho: Specimen of copper ore. 41531.
Ponnporr, A. P., Butte, Mont.: Five specimens of smoky quartz from Montana. 41627.
PoLuarD, C. L., U. S. National Museum: Twenty-five plants from Ohio (41382); 44 plants from Plummers Island, collected principally by Messrs. Pollard and Dowell (41446); plant from the District of Columbia (41535); specimen of Triphora trianthopora from Plummers Island (41730).
Potiock, Mrs. J. S., Tuxedo, Mexico: Barred owl, Syrniam varium. 42240. Potiock, Mrs. Mary, Washington, D.C.: Six beetles and an insect from Talklai,
Ariz. 41652.
Pracut, Max, Durango, Cal.: Rhodochrosite-manganese carbonate in quartz (41918); specimen of topaz in matrix of rhyolite (42190). (See under J. H. Grimes. )
| Presir, EK, A. and A. E., Department of Agriculture: Four specimens of dragon flies (Odonata) and 3 of Lepidoptera from Athabasca, Canada. 41659.
Prentiss, Dr. D. W., Washington, D. C.: Plant from Newfoundland. 42301.
Preston, J. W., Baxter, Iowa: Received through Dr. W. L. Ralph. Specimen of Scarlet tanager, Piranga erythromelas, in abnormal plumage. 42723.
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, Socrety oF, Ponce, Porto Rico: Received through the Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution. Twenty-two garouches, garouche handle, metal horse bridles, wadded club, whip handle, and 2 bridles with curbs. 42912.
Prey, Miss Mina, Porto Rico: Received through the Department of Agriculture. One hundred and thirty-seven plants from Porto Rico. 41303.
PricHarp, M. 8. (See under Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. )
| PriInDie, L. M. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )

<<<Page: 165>>>

PRINGLE, C. G., University of Vermont, Burlington, Vt.: Seven hundred and seventy plants from Mexico and Cuba (purchase) (41320); 4living plants from northern Mexico (gift) (41812) ; 2 plants (gift) (42188); 94 plants from Mexico (purchase) (42231); 480 plants from Mexico (purchase) (42444; 42506); 2 living plants from Mexico (42653).
Prirze., Dr. E., Botanical Museum, Berlin, Germany: Seven hundred and seventy-three plants from Australia.
Purchase. 42285. Proxes, JosepH N., Jackson, Minn.: Fragments of Indian pottery. 42041.
Pusitic Museum, Milwaukee, Wis.: Two skins of weasels representing the species in summer and winter coats. 42248.
Purrus, C. A., Zacatecas, Mexico, and Col. George Hochderffer, Flagstaff Ariz.: Small collection of fishes from Mexico. 42032.
Purpus, .C. A., Zacatecas, Mexico: Insects from Mexico (part of Acc. 42032) (gift); 33 plants from Mexico (pur-
chase) (42184); received through T. S. |
Brandegee, 30 plants from Mexico (gift) (42679); 322 plants from Mexico (purchase) (42693).
Purpus, J. A., Darmstadt, Germany: Two specimens of Cotyledon purpusi from Mexico. 41603.
Pusty, Mrs. M. J., Callao, Peru: Six hundred and eight specimens of insects from Peru, comprising 534 specimens of Lepidoptera and 74 other insects. 41615.
PurnamM, Hon. HERBERT. Congress, Library of.) Purnam, W. B., Salt Lake City, Utah: Eight specimens of cave calcite and
aragonite from Utah. 41629.
QUATREFAGE, CAMILLE, Coney Island, N. Y.: Silver coin of Louis XV, dated 1757. Purchase. 41385.
(See under
Race, Frank L. (See under Larabola Mining and Development Company, Chicago, Ill.)
RaupeH, Dr. W. L., U. S. National Museum: Eleven mammals from New
Ratpn, Dr. W. L.—Continued. York (41695); 2 specimens of deer from the Adirondack Mountains (41774); 2 specimens of Odocoileus virginianus from New York (41912); 231 birds’ eggs irom North America (42040). (See also under J. W. Preston. )
Ramirez, Dr. J., Instituto Medico Nacional, City of Mexico, Mexico: Part of type of a plant from Mexico. 41326.
Ramsey, C. E., Riverside, Cal.: Telescope cigar holder. 41696.
Ranpuir, RichmMonp, Memphis, Tenn.:
Water bug, Coriva burmeisteri Fieb. 41850. Rapp, SEVERIN, Sanford, Fla.: Three
plants from Florida. 41570.
Ratugsun, Miss M. J., U. 8S. National Museum: Specimen of Hyalea eumingi Desh., from the Indian Ocean. 42571. (See also under Dr. J. G. deMan. )
RAvENEL, W. DeC., U. S. National Museum: Two specimens of deer ( Odocoilus virginianus). 42078.
Reap, Prof. T. T., University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyo.: Ten specimens of chaleedony. Exchange. 42048.
Reep, Dr. S. L., Wilsonville, Ky.: Specimen of Horn-tailed saw-fly, Tremex columba L. 41581.
Reep, THomas T. Australia. )
Reeper, J. T., Calumet, Mich.: Ten specimens of fungi (gift) (42198); 22 specimens of copper and associations (purchase) L. P. X. (42199); specimens of powellite and whitneyite (gift) (42684). (See also under Tamarack Mining Company. )
Rep, J. L. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
(See under Adelaide,
Rerp, WiLit1Am, Tucson, Ariz.: Sample of voleanic dust. 42124.
REMENKAMPF, Frau von, Borkholm Schloss, Station Tamsal, Baltioch Eisenbahn, Russia: Thirty specimens of fossilss from the Borkholm formation. 42134.
Revercoon, J., Dallas, Tex.: Twentythree plants from Texas. (41391; 41954; 42087. )

<<<Page: 166>>>

Reyno.ps, Dr. E. R., U. 8. Pension Office,
Washington, D. C.: Eight negatives of |
skulls. 42278.
Ruees, W. J., Smithsonian Institution: Records of underground temperatures and artesian wells. 42578.
Rice, B. W., Boise, Idaho: Specimen of hyalite (42893); plant from Idaho (42897).
Rics, D. L., Washington, D.C.: Specimen of garnet. 42667. {
Ricwarpson, Mrs. C. W., Washington, |
D. C.: Painted elk-skin robe from the Shoshones Wind River Reservation at ‘Fort Washakie, Wyo. 42470.
Ricker, P. L., Department of Agriculture, |
Washington, D. C.: Specimen of Myzomycetes from Maryland. 41591.
Riker, C. B., New York City: Two moths and 3 cocoons from Mexico. 42522.
Rivey, J. H., Falls Church, Va.: Four bats and 15 birds’ skins from the Bahamas (41601); squirrel (Sciurus hudsonicus loquax) (41892); snake (Natrix leberis) from Falls Church, Va. (42474; set of 4 eggs of American woodcock, Philohela minor (42550). (See also under Bahama Expedition.
Ris, B. (See under Hungerford Brass and Copper Company. )
Rivers, Dr. J. J., received through Dr. Ralph Arnold, Oceanpark, Cal.: Specimen of California Pliocene bryozoan. 42145,
Rives, Col. W., Washington, D. C.: Deringer rifle. (Loan.) 9509.
Rossins, G. C., Sandon, British Columbia: Forty-eight insects from British Columbia. 41600.
Roserts, Hon. G. E., Treasury Department, Washington, D. C.: Bronze mint medal of the late President McKinley. 42510.
Rosinson, Capt. Wirt, U.S. Army, Santiago, Cuba, and Fort Totten, N. Y.: Bats (42178); 132 specimens of insects, principally Lepidoptera (42202); nest of Sporadinus riccordi and 4 skins of Polioptila lembeyi (42451).
Rockaiti, Hon. W. W., Director, Bureau of American Republics, Washington, D. C.: Japanese musical instrument (exchange) (42182); photographs of native workmen at Pekin (gift) (42324); oriental antiquities, including 2 Chinese lamps, a pair of shoes, leather belt, and 2 wooden canteens of Grecian make (gift) (42380).
RopEeNDAHL, C. O., Minneapolis, Minn.: Plant from Minnesota. 41555.
Route, H., Berlin, Germany: Four hundred and nineteen specimens of oriental and other exotic land shells. Purchase. 42928.
RominGeEr, Prof. Cart, Ann Arbor, Mich.: Large collection of corals, crinoids, and trilobites from the Paleozoic formation of the Mississippi Valley (Upper Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous) (purchase) (L. P. X.) (41332); a large collection of bryozoans and mollusks representing the larger part of the Paleozoic formations of the Mississippi Valley (Upper Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous) (purchase) (41538); fossils constituting the remainder of this collection (42170).
Rooney, Miss B. M., St. Johnsbury, Vt.: Twenty species of Ophioglassaceze from Vermont. Exchange. 42505.
Roos, A. T., Deadwood, 8. Dak.: Speeimen of lepidolite from Ingersoll Group of Claims, Harvey Peak Tin Cdmpany, South Dakota, collected by Dr. George P. Merrill. 41997.
RoosEvELT, Hon. THropore, President of the United States: Buckskin hunting shirt made for the President by the Delaware Indians (41797); ethnolegical objects from the Philippine Islands (42858); pair of Willow Ptarmigans, Lagopus lagopus, from the vicinity of Valdez, Alaska (42649); 3 ceremonial objects presented by the Zuni Indians, through the Bureau of American Ethnology (42217); collection of nativemade guns, pistols, and bolos from the Philippine Islands (42351).
Roser, Dr. J. N., U. S. National Museum: Plants from Mexico (41508, 41509, 41533, 41573, 41583, 41594, 41659, 41692, 41742,

<<<Page: 167>>>

Ross, Dr. J. N.—Continued. 41752,41779); 3,863 plants from Mexico and about 100 specimens of shells representing the species Valvata sincera
.Say from Mexico (41841); 3 Mexican baskets (42111).
Rosetti, Dr. Antonio, San Juan, Porto Rico: Three specimens of fossils from the Oligocene of Yauco, Porto Rico. 42018.
Rosenspera, W. F. H., London, England: Two specimens of Lepus, 2 specimens of Nerus, 2 of Hyrax, and a spotted hyena (41643); 92 specimens of Hymenoptera (41770); pair of petrels, Oceanodroma castro from the Madeiras (41793); bat (Spheronycteris) (42180); rat (Zygodontomys cherriei) (42349); 18 birds’ skins from Chiriqui, also 3
mammals (42398); 1,861 specimens of |
Hymenoptera and Hemiptera from South America, Queensland, and Ceylon (42699). Purchase.
RosenpauL, ©. O., Minneapolis, Minn.: Plant from Canada. 41285.
Roru, Dr., Lands Department, Brisbane, |
Queensland: Collection of artifacts to illustrate stone-working among the ancient Tasmanians of Blackman Bay.
The series include chert nuclei or
cores, various forms of flakes struck | from these, and roughly worked blades
to be used later as special tools.
42352. Roruces, D. A., Leaksville, Va.: Beetle ( Dynastes tityus Linnzeus). 42928.
Royat Boranic GARDEN. Sibpur, Calcutta, India.)
Royat Botanic GARDENS. Kew, London, England. )
RoyAL GEOGRAPHICAL SocigEry or AusTRALASIA. (See under Adelaide, Australia. )
Ruppockx, G. T., San Francisco, Cal.: Plant from Oregon. 41334.
Rurrin, J. N. (See under Department of Agriculture. )
Rune, Louis, New York City: Python representing the species Preticulatus
(See under |
(See under
Rune, Lours—Continued. from the East Indies. Pex -4i363e
RumMet, Mrs. Franz, Washington, D.C.: Gilt vest buttons, grande cordon, and ribbons of decoration which belonged to the late Prof. S. F. B. Morse. (Loan.) 9217.
Rutu, ALBERT, Knoxville, Tenn.: Plant from Texas. 41748.
Rurrer, CLoupstey. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries. )
Purchase.
Sr. Mary’s Acapemy, Monroe, Mich.: Received through Sister Mary Catherine. Two corals (41496); crayfish, reptile, and mollusks (41501).
Sr. Pererspurc, Russia, Impertan ACADEMY OF Scrences: Received through Prof. Frederic von Schmidt. One hundred and thirteen specimens of selected fossils from the Reval Provincial Museum. 42398.
Sanpers, J. G., Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.: Ten species of scale insects from Ohio, including cotypes of 2 species described by donor. 42874.
SanpeERsSON, Prof. E. Dwiaut, State Entomologist, Agricultural and Mechanical College, College Station, Tex.: Lizard from Comanche County, collected by R. T. Jaynes (41431); 5 specimens of Lepidoptera (42376).
Sanson, N. B., curator, Rocky Mount Park Museum, Banff, Alta, British Columbia: Plant from Canada (41582) 2 specimens of Hymenoptera, 3 of Odonata and a horse-fly (41651); 2 specimens of wasp ( Vespa maculata L.), and a beetle (Dytiscus marginicollis Leconte) (41852).
SAo Pauto, Brazit, Museum PAuLista: Received through Dr. H. von Ihering, director. ‘ Three bats. 42814.
Sarue, C. J., Rochester, N. Y.: Specimens of Rochester shales. 41565.
Savery, J. C., Cable, Mont.: Specimen of native gold in pyrrhotite from Cable
mine. Deposit. 41631. ScHagFFER, C., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Nine specimens of Orthoptera. 42360.

<<<Page: 168>>>

ScHauier, W. T., U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of palacheite from California (41712); specimen of ‘esmeraldaite from Esmeralda County, Nevada (42007).
Scuaus, WiiuraAmM, Twickenham, land: One hundred and fifty-three miscellaneous insects from Jamaica (41972) ; 328 specimens of Lepidoptera from Cuba (42359).
Eng|
ScHerrer, THEoDoRE, Agricultural Col-_ lege, Manhattan, Kans.: Twelve spi|
ders, cotypes of species described by the donor. 42695. ScH.Ltrer, WILHELM, Halle a Salle, Ger-
many: Eighty-three mammals from the Old World (41294); monkey ( Presbytes
cephalopterus) (42114); 12 skins of Ruff | Purchase. |
( Machetes pugnaa) (42758).
Scumip, E. Se Washington, D.C.: Three | | Scorr, Mrs. M. N., Honolulu, Hawaiian
brains of rabbits (41605); 2 guinea
pigs, a Belgian hare, and a Cuban par| rot (41724); raccoon (41740); 3 speci|
mens of Sciuropterus volans (41750); snake (Coluber guttatus) from Florida
(41870); skull of a fox terrier (42051) ; |
head of a rabbit (42073); 3 fox squirrels (42096); python (42255); crab (Gecarcinus) (42686).
Scumipt, Prof. FREDERICK von. (See un-
der St. Petersburg, Russia, Imperial |
Academy of Sciences. )
ScuNeck, J., Mount Carmel, Ill.: Jumping-mouse. 42827.
SCHONLAND, Dr. 8. (See under Grahamstown, South Africa, Albany Museum. )
ScHREINER, J Acos, St. Petersburg, Russia:
_Twenty-four specimens of parasitic Hy-
_ menoptera (42139); 23 species of parasitic Hymenoptera (42318).
ScHucHerT, CHARLES, U.S. National Museum: About 500 specimens of Cretaceous fossils, principally bryozoans from Mastricht, Holland (41818); 2 specimens of trachyte from Drachenfels, Germany, and one specimen of bitumen
from Visé, Belgium (41826); about 300 |
specimens of Silurian and Lower Devonic fossils collected in Bohemia (41842) ; specimens of voleanic rocks from the Provinces of Eifel and Nassau, Ger-
ScHUCHERT, CHARLES—Continued. many (41875); about 1,000 specimens of Silurian fossils collected on the island of Gotland, Sweden (42002); about 1,000 specimens of Lower Silurian fossils collected at various places in Estland, Russia (42392); 615 specimens of Silurian fossils¢ (42701). (Seealso under A. Piret. )
Scuuette, J. H., Green Bay, Wis.: Two plants from Wisconsin. 41271.
ScHwarz, Prof. E. A., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: One hundred and forty-one specimens of Hemiptera from Cuba (41345); 300 specimens of Lepidoptera, 6,000 specimens of Coleoptera from Victoria and Goliad, Tex. (41817). (See also under Department of Agriculture, and Washington Biologists Field Club. )
Islands: Specimens of hair; bambooOhe; hat and basket material; Oloma (fiber); mat pandanes and anklet shells (42164); cocoanut bowl from the Hawaiian Islands (42361); specimens of native Hawaiian work consisting of 2 straw hats, a bone fishhook, and a wooden bowl (42383).
ScuppEr, 8. H. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. ) Scurtock, Dr. H. C., Washington, D.
C.: Skeletons of 2 negroes (42289); 2 foetus (42379); brain of an adult negro (42416); foetus (42430); skeletons of
2 full-blood negroes (42528).
Sepawick Museum. (See under Cambridge, England. )
Srecar, G. E., U. S. National Museum: Belgian hare. 41568.
SELDEN, CHARLES, Baltimore, Md.: Telegraphic key manufactured by W. Shock in 1864. 41421.
Sever, Dr. Epwarp. Germany, Konigliches Volkerkunde. )
Sempers, J. Forp, Aiken, Md.: Specimen of Jonactis linearifolia. 41706.
Seton, Ernest THompson, CosCob, Conn. : Skin and skull of a White-tailed fawn from Manitoba. 42760.
(See under Berlin, Museum fur
« Purchase.
NAT Mus 1904——10

<<<Page: 169>>>

Srron-Karr, H. W., Cairo, Egypt: Two
hundred and seventy-eight stone im|
plements from the Fayum district, Egypt. 42189.
SHaw, GeorGE R., Bangor, Mass.: Eight |
specimens of pines from the Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plain, Mass. Exchange. 42171. Saw, Hon. L. M. Department. ) SHetpon, Mrs. C. A., Washington, D. C.:
(See under Treasury
Butterfly and 3 beetles from western | | Smirn, EvGeneA., University, Ala.: Spec-
China and 3 North American insects. 42542.
Suaetpon, E. P., Portland, Oreg.: Three plants from Oregon. 41383. (See also under Department of Agriculture. )
SHERMAN, F. G. (See under Central Railroad Company of New Jersey. ) SuHerwoop, W. L., New York City: Two
abnormal specimens of tadpole. 42414. Snort, J. W., Liberty, Ind.: Specimen of Myxomycetes from Indiana. 41401. SHULL, G. Chicago, Ill.: Two plants from Indiana. 41315.
Sras, A. W., Harbor View, Fla.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Plant from Florida. 41715.
Srppur, Caucutra, INp1A; Roya Boranic GARDEN: One hundred and forty-three plants from India. Exchange. 41537.
Sickugs, F. M., Los Angeles, Cal.: Specimen of pink spodumene. 41436.
Simmons, GEORGE, Manvel, Cal.: Stone implements, pottery, and pieces of turquoise, ete. 41701.
Sms, Mrs. THomas, Altamonte Springs, Fla.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Plantfrom Florida. 42404.
Simpson, C. B., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Thirteen larval cases of Limnephilus indivisus Walk., from Ithaca, N. Y. 41653.
SINGER, GEORGE P., Lockhaven, Pa.: Received through Department of Agriculture. Plantfrom Pennsylvania. 42746.
Skurs, R. A., Gunnison, Colo.: Moth
(Arachnia atra N. & D.) 42067.
H., University of Chicago, |
Stater, W. M., president American RutileCompany, Washington, D.C.: Specimen of ferrotitanium. 42072. (See also under American Rutile Company. )
Snoan, C. G., & Co., Washington, D. C.:
« Two antique lamps and an antique salt box. Purchase. 42017.
| Stosson, Mrs. A. T., New York~City:
Eight specimens of Hymenoptera from Biscayne Bay, Florida (41943); moth from Florida belonging to a new genus and species (42703).
imens of turquoise. 41993.
Smirn, H. H., Pittsburg, Pa.: One hun-
dred and America.
two plants from South
Purchase. 41317.
Samira, Dr. Huan M., Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D. C.: Collection of reptiles and batrachians from Japan
(gift) (41419); miscellaneous invertebrates, bats, and mollusks from various localities in Japan (gift)
(41439); Iroquois rattle, made from a snapping turtle (exchange) (42889); Japanese teeth-blacking outfit (loan) (9508.) (See also under Dr. K. Kishinouyé. )
SmirH, Capt. Joan Donne, Baltimore, Md.: Plants from Guatemala, one of them collected by Mr. H. von Turckheim (41935; 42232. )
Smita, J. G., Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands: Plant from Honolulu. 42745.
Smita, Prof. J. P., Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal.: Hypotype of Gastrioceras globulosum, figured in Monograph No. 42 of the U. S. Geological Survey. 41923.
SmitH, Mitton W., Portland, Oreg.: Three specimens of Macrorhampus scolopaceus and Gallinago delicata. 42293.
SMITHSONIAN Institution, Mr. S. P. Langley, Secretary: Twenty-three flint implements from the Temple of Osiris, Abydos, and 2 gaming dice from Behnesa. 41749. Presented by the Egypt Exploration Fund, London, England, through Mr. James Cotton, secretary.
An obsolete barometer, No. 358, 42137.

<<<Page: 170>>>

a ee
Sy tee
SmirHsonraAn InstrrutTion—Continued.
Life-sized relief in plaster of Prof. Alpheus Hyatt. 42337. Presented by Mrs. Harriet Hyatt Mayer.
Eleven photographs showing a new method of making casts. 42604. sented by Maj. George A. Peters, Toronto, Canada, through Mr. O. C. Cullen.
Shells and musket balls from the battlefield of Gettysburg; Chinese harikari dagger, bone-handled ‘‘ couteau du chasse,’’ Siamese double dagger, singlehandle East India dagger, Malay bolong, Abyssinian flissa, U.S. artillery
Pre|
sword of Roman pattern, horn, 2 flint| lock pistols in a wooden case, 2 horse |
pistols in a wooden case, 2 Satsuma vases on stands, Russian icon, singlebarrel sporting gun, 3-inch Parrott solid shell, and a Dahlgren explosive shell; eight historical specimens (42616; 42730; 48875). John Watts de Payster, Tivoli, N. Y.
Fourteen photographs of the mammoth expedition of Beresofka River. 42802.
Bronze medal struck in commemora-
Presented by Gen. .
tion of the dedication of the Chamber | of Commerce of the State of New York. |
42811. Commerce of the State of New York. Transferred from the Bureau of Aimerican Ethnology, Mr. W. H. Holmes, chief: Bronze medal awarded to the Bureau of American Ethnology by the Louisville Exposition, in 1883; bronze medal with aluminum case awarded to the Bureau by the World’s Columbian Exposition, 1893, and a gold medal awarded by the Cotton States and In-
ternational Exposition, Atlanta, in 1895 | (41355); material transferred from the |
Bureau, consisting of specimens col-
lected by Prof. W J McGee in Mexico | and also among the Papago and Seri | Indians; (41397); pestle of schistose | Gil|
stone collected by Prof. G. K. bert near Redstone, Tulare County, Cal. (41726); ethnological objects from various localities (41802); human skeleton and basket, basket, tule mat, and remains of a net from a cave near Bakersfield, obtained by purchase from James W. Stockton, Bakersfield, Cal.
Presented by the Chamber of |
| SMITHSONIAN InstTrITUTION—Continued.
(41978) ; basket and mat of the Haida Indians with figures of Killer whale, collected by John R. Swanton (42216); ethnological material collected among the American Indians by James Mooney (42431); collection of ethnological objects from the northern coast collected by J. R. Swanton (42513); Zuni blanket, specimen of Tekuna, ceremonial sash, wooden paddle, 2 Zuni masks, Zuni shirt, pair of amulets, and Hopi sash (42514); archeological specimens, obtained through Mr. E. H. Jacobs, Bentonville, Ark. (42531); bronze medal awarded to the Bureau of American Ethnology by the Universal Exposition held in Paris in 1889 (42551); 6 ethnological objects collected by John R. Swanton (42610); about 550 specimens illustrating Dr. J. Walter Fewkes’s researches in the Caribbean region (42916). (See also under Mr. Bunker; I. C. Harris; 8. E. Jackson; J. E. Osborne; Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Society of, Ponce, Porto Rico; William N. Zoller.)
Transferred fromthe National Zoological Park, Dr. Frank Baker, superintendent: Spice finch (41238); Valley partridge, californica vallicola (41239) ; 3 specimens of deer ( Cariacus macrotis), and a Brush-tailed rock kangaroo, Petrogale penicillata (41240); brain of an alligator (41589); Mud hen, Gallinule; finch (Sporeginthus
Callipepla
flavidiventris); coyote (Canis frustros) ;
Native Australian cat, Dasyurus; Java sparrow and bittern (41676); bear (Ursus japonicus); Arctic fox, Vulpes logopus; bear ( Ursus americanus); deer (Cariacus) (41677); cat (Felis eyra); ocelot (Felis pardalis); 2 specimens of Jaguar, Felis onca; coyote (Canis frustror) and Wallaby, Onychogale frenata (41678); duck (Dendronessa galericulata); coot (Fulica americana); Wood duck (Aix sponsa) (41679); alligator
(Alligator mississippiensis) (41680) ; Echidna, Echidna aculeata (41681) ;
lory, Java sparrow, parrakeet, fishhawk, grass parrakeet, flamingo (Phenicopterus antiquorum) (41682); 2 specimens of Tree duck, Dendrocyg

<<<Page: 171>>>

SMITHSONIAN INsrituTIoN—Continued.
na arctuata, and a Brown pelican, Pelecanus fuseus (41683); baboon (Papio hamadryas), Great horned owl, Bubo virginianus, specimen of Ocyphaps lophotes, American magpie, Pica pica hudsonica, pine snake, Pity-
ophis melanoleucus, and an European |
swan, Cygnus gibbus (41684); Grass parrakeet; Louisiana heron, Ardea tricolor rujicollis; Wanga wanga pigeon, ‘Lencosarcia picata, 3 specimens; lory, 2 specimens of Lencosarcia picata (41685); specimen of Echidna aculeata (41686); Dingo, dingo; American bison, Bison americanus; bear (Ursus americanus) (41687) ; specimen of Tennessee warbler, Helminthophila peregrina (41702), pigeon (Geopelia placida), and a specimen of Trichoglossus versicolor (41744); cockatoo (Cacatua roseicapilla); 2 specimens of coot (Fulica americana); par-
Canis
« rot (Amazona leucocephala); Flamingo, Phenicopterus ruber, Snowy owl,
Nyctea nyctea (41983); Mule deer, Ca| riacus macrotis; deer (Cervus philippi-— ; | SourH SrpeE SporTSMEN’s Cuius, Oakdale,
nus); armadillo ( Tatusia novemecincta) ; wallaby (2 specimens) and a sloth (Cholepus didactylus) (41984); opossum (Phalangista fuliginosa); monkey (Cebus); Hutia, Capromys pilorides; skull of seal (Phoca vitulina) and Echidna, Echidna aculeata (41985); tortoise . (Testudo tabulata) (41986);
Gallinule; Wild boar, Sus scrofa; swan
(Olor columbianus); hawk (Accipiter cooper’); coot (Fulica americana) and Wood duck, Aix sponsa (41987); Chuckawalla (41988) ; 5 birds (42761); Cayman (42762); 2 specimens of Great blue heron, Ardea herodias (42763); Swift Fox, Vulpes velox (42764); Grizzly bear, Ursus horribilis (42765); Cinnamon — bear, American buffalo, Bison americanus (42766); moose (Alces americanus) (42771); tortoise, snake and an ocelot (42767); owl (Bubo virginianus); owl (Nyctea nyctea); White stork, Ciconia alba; stork (Leptoptilus crumeniferus) ;
Ursus americanus;
egret, (Ardea candidissima) ; crane ( An|
thropoidea virgo) (42768); Cassowary, Casuarius australis; Water turkey,
SounnER, H., Chicago, IIL:
| SMITHSONIAN InstiruTion—Continued.
Anhinga anhinga; Piping crow, Gym-
norhina tibicen; pigeon; parrakeet ( Melosittacus undulatus); cockatoo
(Cacatua roseicapilla) (42769); 6 birds (42770) ; moose (42771); moose ( Alces americanus); Black wolf, Canis lupis griseo-albus; ocelot ( Felis pardalis); Australian native cat (Dasyurus) and raecoon (Procyon cancrivorus) (42772); Grass parrakeet, Melopsittacus undulatus (42773); Gray wolf, yellow baboon, Java sparrow, Golden eagle and Harbor seal (42774); Amazon (Amazona levaillanti) (42779); Sun bear, Ursus malayanus (42780); Sparrow hawk, Falco sparverius, and a Purple heron, Ardea purpurea (42832); Purple heron (42833) .
(See under Leland Stanford Junior University. )
Soochow University, Soochow, China:
Collection of insects. 41236.
Myriapod representing the species Cermatia forceps. 41505.
Long Island: Received through J. O. Clift, superintendent. Large German brown trout raised.in the South Side Ciub Hatchery. 42806.
Sowersy AND Fuuron, Royal Botanical
Gardens, Kew, England: Specimen of Voluta pulchra Sow. Purchase. 41938.
Spatpinc, THomas, Stockton, Utah: Six
specimens of Satyrus paulus. 42271.
Sponvitue, H. J., director of mines at
Demidoff, St. Petersburg, Russia: Rocks from Demidoff mines, province of Perm, Russia. 42160.
Sprincer, Rey. Ruter.W., U. 8. Army,
Fort Washington, Md.: Large shell representing the species Cucullea gigantea from the Eocene of Fort Washington. 42707:
Sraneart, C. W., Forest Hill, La.: Beetle
( Dynastes tityus L.). 412365.
Sranton, Dr. T. W., U. 8S. Geological
sticks” (See also
‘‘Vedicine 41970.
Survey: Seven found in Montana. under A. W, Jones.)

<<<Page: 172>>>

a sg i Me le
Sranton, Rey. W. A., Manila, Philippine Islands: Lepidoptera (41671); insects (41958; 42068); 263 specimens of insects (42208; 42558); 19 vials of Hymenoptera (42682); 6 specimens of an
Aleyrodes and 5 specimens of hymenop-
terous parasites (42738).
Stare AGRICULTURAL CoLLEGE, Fort Collins, Colo.: Received through 8. A. Johnson. Leeches and Apus. 41968,
Srare CoLureGE, Bozeman, Mont.: Re-
ceived through Prof. F. W. Traphagen. |
Mineralsand ores. Exchange.
Srate DepartMENtT. (See under Hon.
H. R. Dietrich. )
Srearns, Dr. C. H., U.S. Army, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of sponge ( Huplectella) 41370.
Srearns, Dr. R. E. C., Los Angeles, Cal.: Two hundred and fifty shells representing the species Helix aspersa Mull from California (41425) ; about 125 specimens of Paphia from California (41448); about 2,500 specimens of marine shells from California (41761); 8 shells representing the species Saxidomus nuttallii from
California (41890); 8 specimens of Peci|
lozonites from Bermuda, collected by Mr.
A. J. Edwards (42038); 325 specimens |
of Crepidula onyx variety rugosa Nutt., from San Pedro, Cal. (42071); 20 specimens of Lasea rubra Mort., from Santa Barbara, Cal. (42433).
STEELE, E. §., Department of Agriculture, |
Washington, D. C.: Five specimens of Sedum from West Virginia. 41542.
SreeLe, Mrs. Grace A. K., Washington, D. C.: Three hundred and twenty-five plants from Virginia. Purchase. 42357.
SrEJNEGER, Dr. LreonHaRp. (See under
J. G. Crawford. )
SresNEGER, Miss THora, Bergen, Norway: Fifteen mammals and 42 reptiles. Purchase. 41558.
STEPHENS, F. (See under Department of
Agriculture. )
SrepHens, Miss Karr, San Diego, Cal.: One hundred specimens of land and fresh-water shells from California. 42752.
41751. |
SreRKI, Dr. V., New Philadelphia, Ohio: Four cotypesof Planorbis rebellus Sterki. 42878.
STEVENSON, Mrs. M. C., Bureau of American Ethnology, Washington, D. C.: Nine Zuni and Navaho blankets. Purchacery disc PN IS
Stewart, A. H., Washington, D. C.: Outfit of a Bagobo family from Davao, Philippine Islands. Purchase. 42856.
STILWELL, L. W., Deadwood, S. Dak.:
Rocks and minerals from various localities. ‘Purchase. L..P. X. 42015.
Stimpson, C. A. (See under J. H. Bunnell & Co.; Manhattan Electrical Supply Company; Foote, Pierson & Co.)
Stockton, J. W. (See under Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. )
Stokes, Susan, Salt Lake City, Utah: Three hundred plants from Utah and Nevada. Purchase. 42141.
Strong, Miss ELLEN A., Washington, D.C.: French plaster medallion of Lafayette. Loan. 9108.
Srron, Jacos G., Waterloo, Ontario, Canada; Flint arrowhead. 42545.
SruBBLEFIELD, Mrs. A. W., Cumberland, Md.: Twenty-four specimens of fossils from the Oriskany and Hamilton formations of Pendleton County, W. Va. (41863); specimen of Halysites and 4
trilobites from Pendleton County (42042). Srupps, GRANVILLE, Alexandria, Va.:
Three snakes from Va. 41963.
Fairfax County,
Srurtz, Herr B., Bonn, Germany: Twenty-four specimens of fossil starfishes,
crinoids, and crabs. Purchase. L. P. X. 41837.
SupiXa, Sehor Arturo, Ponce, P. R.: Received through Dr. J. Walter Fewkes. A Spanish coin, 42782
4/092.
Surer, Henry, Auckland, New Zealand: One hundred and eighty-seven specimens of land, fresh-water and marine shells from Auckland. 42434.
Swan, Miss ErHetyn, Dallas City, Pa.: Three specimens of Gordius. 41241.

<<<Page: 173>>>

Swanton, J. R. (See under Smithsonian Institution, nology. )
SwerLanp, Dr. B. S., Brocton, ‘Four goniatites and two specimens of Orthoceras. 42586.
Swirr & Co., Kansas City, Kans.: Received through R. H. Frisby, superintendent. Tooth of Mastodon canus. 42855.
Swirt, F. W., Alden, N. Y.: Six specimens of bryozoans and corals from the Hamilton formation of Alden (gift) (41231); half of a ceremonial or banner-stone (loan) (8540).
Taser, Miss Exizaseru, U. 8. National
Museum: Spider (Hpeira insularis, Hentz), from Buckeystown, Md. 41598.
TALBERT, FRANK, Soldiers’ Home, Richmond, Va.: Specimens of Psyllid galls.
41578.
Tamarack Mining Company, Calumet, Mich.: Received through John T. Reeder. Specimens of whitneyite and chaleocite. 42321.
TamMEN, H. H., Denver, Colo.: Ten specimens of minerals. Purchase.
Thy 1B, DX ei. Tasstn, Wirt, U. 8S. National Museum:
Four motheres cat’s eyes from China. 41934.
Taytor, Errre P., Thomasville, Ga.: Received through Dr. William Trelease. Plant from Georgia. 42900.
Taytor, Rey. G. W., Wellington, British Columbia: Two hundred and seventynine specimens of Lepidoptera (gift) (41529); 24 specimens of Geometrid moths from British Columbia (exchange) (42431).
Terres, Hon. Jonn B., U.S. vice-consul, Port au Prince, Haiti: Petrified oysters from mountains between Haiti and Santo Domingo, at a height of 1,100 feet; also land shells found in the same mountains. 42523.
Terry, WiuuiAM A., Bristol, Conn.: Three
specimens of diatoms. 42215.
THomas, OuprFieLp, British Museum ‘Natural History), London, England:
Ne |
| THomaAs, OLDFIELD—Continued.
Bureau of American Eth|
ameri|
THompson, Dr.
Two skelctons of mammals (41559); 3 mice representing the species Hvotomys shomerensis, from Wales (42374); 13 mammals (42402).
THompson, Miss F. L. Washam DIG: Patch-work bed quilt (loan). 9312.
Tompson, Dr. J. C., U. S. Navy, Bremerton, Wash.: Fishes collected off the coast of New England (41468) ; fishes from Santa Rosa, Cal. (41649); 2 specimens of Pipefish, Siphostoma albirostris, from the Dry Tortugas, Florida (41843); specimen of Peromyscus, fishes and a hermit crab ( A20LO}s Coleoptera (42019).
J. Forp, Washington, D. C.: Brain of a white child. 42465.
THoRWorTH, Miss Esrevia, U. 8. National Museum: Specimen of Rosa bracteata from Virginia. 41556.
Txurow, F. W., Harvester, Tex.: Thirtyfive plants from Texas. 41936.
TinpDALL, Dr. D. W., Taylor, Mo.: Specimen of ‘‘hard-tack’’ used in the U. 8. Army during the civil war (1861-1865). 41783.
Titus, E. 8. G., Department of Agriculture: Received through Dr. L. O. Howard. Two hundred specimens of Lepidoptera from Fort Collins, Colo. (41546); specimen of stone-fly from Lawrence, Kans. (41804).
New York City:
serenatta
Tonk, WiuuiAM, & Bro., Two musical instruments, and solophone. 41248.
Toppine, D. Le Roy, Manila, P. I.: Seventeen specimens of plants from the Philippine Islands. 41409.
Torres, JosE P., Agana, Guam: from Guam. 41306.
Plant
TowNSEND-BARBER TAXIDERMY AND ZoOLOGICAL Company, El~ Paso, Tex. Imperial woodpecker, Campephilus imperialis, from Mexico. Purchase. L. P. X. 41520.
Tracy, 8. M., Biloxi, Miss.: Fern from ence (41908); 3 plants (41920); specimen of fern representing the species Trichomanes petersii from Mississippi (42413); 2specimensot Botrychium

<<<Page: 174>>>

LIST OF Tracy, S. M.—Continued. from the SouthernStates (42594). (See |
also under Department of Agriculture. )
TRAPHAGEN, F. W., Golden, Colo.: Nine|
teen photographs representing views of Montana. 41618. (See also under State College, Bozeman, Mont. )
Trask, Mrs. BuiancHe, Avalon, Cal.: Specimen of Epiphragmorpha intercisa, variety crebristriata Newe., from San Clemente Island (gift) (41602); 2 plants from California (gift) (42097) ; 224 plants from California (purchase) (42252); 2 specimens of seaweeds (gift) (42373); 2 specimens of Lycodina fungina Gabb. (gift) (42495); specimens of Cerostoma nuttalli Conr., specimen of Calliostoma supragranosa Spr., from Catalina Island (gift) (42662); 8 plants from California (gift) (42845).
TREASURY DEPARTMENT: Received through Hon. L. M. Shaw, Secretary. Plaster bust of President Lincoln, taken by F. F. Mills. 42710.
TRELEASE, Prof. WILLIAM. Effie P. Taylor. )
(See under
True, Dr. F. W., U.S. National Museum: |
Specimens of marine worms and invertebrates collected at Brooklyn, Hancock County, Me. 41530.
TsucHipa, T., Misaki, Miura, Japan: Seventeen moles and rodents from Japan. Purchase. 42680.
Tuxtiock, A. E., Hawaii, Hawaiian Islands: Received through Department of Agriculture. Plant from the Hawaiian Islands. 42901.
TurcKHEIM, H. von. John Donnell Smith.)
Turner, C. 8., Atlanta, Ga.: Water-bee|
tle, Cybister oliveri Cr. 41748.
TurNER, GrorGE, U.S. National Museum:
(See under Capt.
Fourteen pearls taken from a shell of |
Ostrea virginica. 42394.
Turner, Mrs. 8. E., North Chesapeake Beach, Md.: Two spoons made from the horns of Rocky Mountain sheep; spoon made from the horn of a Rocky Mountain goat; carved horn of a cow, and an Eskimo waterproof shirt. chase. L. P. X. 41373.
Pur|
TusHorr, Dr. VLApimir, Petropaulovsk, Kamchatka: Five salamanders from Kamchatka. 41405.
Tutrie, Miss C. M., University of Virginia, Charlottsville, Va.: Two unfinished coiled baskets in rafia. 41255.
Unter, Prof. P. R., Peabody Library, Baltimore, Md.: Two beetles from Jamaica. 41933.
Usricut, R. E., New York City: Mexican idol carved in serpentine. chases aie exe Asie
Unrica, E. O., U. 8. Geological Survey: Remainder of Ulrich collection, consisting of mollusks and miscellaneous material represented by about 500 type lots and upward of 15,000 specimens. Purchase. 42804.
Unmpacu, L. M., Northwestern College, Naperville,
Pur-
Ill.:, Four specimens of Laciniaria scariosa. 438556.
UnpEerwoop, L. M. (See under New York Botanical Garden. )
Uncer, C. W., Pottsville, Pa.: Fossil plants from the upper anthracite series of the Carboniferous at various localities near Pottsville. 42672.
Unirep Srates NationaL-Museum: The following models were made in the Anthropological Laboratory: Cast of feathered serpent (41374); cast of coiled feathered serpent (41375); cast of carved slate box (41376); cast of pottery vase from Brazil (41377); cast of bird god (41417); cast of pottery vase (41418); Indian drums and _ sticks, Indian flutes, horn rattles, notched rattles, and blades for rattles (41427); cast of jade carving, cast of painted vase, cast of jade carving, and cast of wood carving (41548); 3 sets (16 each) of models of oriental seals (41675); plaster cast of Zemé idol (41789); cast of stone pestle, casts of Zemé idols, and cast of a pottery vase (41790); cast of a large painted vase (41853); 4 plaster casts of a carved stool and 8 plaster casts of stone collars (41866); 4 plaster casts of Mexican stone yoke; 8 plaster casts of a stone collar (41869); plaster casts of 15 stone implements (42004); woodin model of a war club (42025); 2 pho

<<<Page: 175>>>

152 U.S. Nationat Musseum—Continued.
(42058); plaster casts of carved stone Zemé, stone pestles, pottery vase, stone Zemé, stone polisher, and stone implement (42079); miniature model of a
whale (42080); casts of stone slab, |
Zemés, sculptured stone, and vase (42162); casts of Indians for collections in physical anthropology (42191); neg-
atives taken for racial measurements |
(42203); three-tongued jew’s-harp (42295); 5 models of Yucatan temples (42311); 2 models of wooden threepronged jew’s-harp (42312); models of implements from Alaska, 2 rattles and 5 small models of fin-back whales (42313); 15 casts of Mexican and Central American pottery (42325); 4 copies of Alaskan religious implements (42375); cast of vase from Central America and cast of a figure from Mexico (42387); cast of pottery vase and 4 casts of pottery bowls (42425); model of Alaskan drum and a model of a Zuni snake (42432); cast of William Snow, a Seneca Indian (42443); 4 casts of bowls and 3 casts of collars (42457); casts of collar, animals, metate, and bowls (42462); 2 casts of a spearhead from Oatka Island (42469); cast of carved bowl (42479); wooden mask and a carved stone mask (42508); cast of jade pendant and casts of throwingsticks (42532); model of Haida mask (42535) ; series of fire-making apparatus (42559); 7 casts of stone pipes (42568) ; cast of carved stone amulet, cast of dish, and cast of a swallowing stick (42595); 2 models of musical instruments (42615); cast of a spearhead, cast of a flint dagger, cast of drilled ax, casts of flint hatchets, and cast of a flint chisel (42626); cast of stone implement (42644); Sioux cradle and child (42791); 5 are electric lamps of obsolete pattern (42825).
Ursina, Dr. MANueEt, National Museum, City of Mexico, Mexico: Two plants
from Mexico. 41810. VALENTINE, F. B., Ridgely, W. Va.: Seven flint implements. Exchange.
42399.
_ Vauerte, C. D., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen tographie copies of Japanese music |
of Lace-winged fly, Chrysopa tabida Fitch. 41504.
Van Incen & Van INGEN, Ootocamund, India: Two Indian ungulates (Axis deer and Sambur stag) (purchase) (L. P. X.) (41644); 4 Indian ungulates (purchase) (42262).
VassILigEF, Ivan, Bureau of Entomology, St. Petersburg, Russia: Twelve hymenopterous insects. 41736.
VauGHAN, T. Way ann. (See under Interior Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
ViENNA, Austria, First ZooLoaicaL INSTITUTE OF THE IMPERIAL UNIVERSITY:
_Received through Dr. F. Werner. Fishes and reptiles from North Africa, Asia Minor, and other localities. Exchange. 42685.
ViENNA, AusTrRiA, K. K. NATURHISTORIscHES Hormuseum, received through Dr. Theodore Fuchs: Unassorted bryozoans and ostracods from 18 localities in Europe, of the Mesozoic and Tertiary age (42118); 107 specimens of fungi from Europe (42853). Exchange.
Viereck, H. L., Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.: Specimen of Odontophotopsis exogyrus Viereck (paratype). Exchange. 41663.
VromMaNn, A.C., Pasadena, Cal.: One hun dred and sixteen photographs of California missions, and a book of ‘‘ Mission memories.’’? 42577,
Wa.cort, BenjAMINS., Washington, D.C. : Received through Hon. C. D. Walcott: Specimens of Devonian fossils from near Canandaigua, N. Y. Exchange. 41691.
Watcorr, Hon. CHAR.LEs D. Benjamin 8. Walcott. )
Waker, B. E., Canadian Bank of Commerce, Toronto, Ontario, Canada: Seven specimens of Callocystites, 19 specimens of Caryocrinus ornatus, and 1 specimen of Celocystis. Exchange. 42729.
W aLKeEr, Bryant, Detroit, Mich.: Twenty specimens of fresh-water shells, including 3 cotypes of Lioplax pilsbryi Walker. 42754.
(See under

<<<Page: 176>>>

Waker, G., Furman, 8. C.: Pedipalp, or | Pseudoscorpion, Chelifer muriatus Say. | 41670.
Watpote, W. A., Gorda, Cal.: Ten specimens of living plants from California. | 42473.
War Department: Received through | Brig. Gen. William Crozier, Chief of | Ordnance Department: Large and comprehensive collection of muskets, rifles, pistols, bayonets, and parts of small arms, various implements used in the U.S. Army for entrenching purposes, relics of the civil war, swords used by European and American armies, and Indian objects (41356); received through the Bureau of Insular Affairs, 358 scarf pins, 3 Philippine flags, 154 buttons with head of Aguinaldo, 5 medallions, 3 pairs of cuff buttons, 2 scarf pins, and 2 breastpins for ladies (41398) ; received through the Office of the Adjutant-General, section of the original Fort Sumter flagstaff (41807); received through Surg. Gen. R. M. O’ Reilly, collection of articulated skeletons, skulls, pelvis bones, brains, and instruments of measurement (42109); through the Bureau of Ordnance, collection of small arms and parts of same, modeis of pro| jectiles, arms, etc., hand and leg shack| les, keys, and bags (42272); received through Capt. G. W. Baird, U.S. Navy, Krupp gun and carriage captured at Pekin, China, and a mahogany gun carriage captured in Cuba (42298); through Army Medical Museum, Dr. R. M. O’Reilly, small antique vase, 2 fragments of antique vases, gold seal ring, small pottery ring, and a Roman bronze coin (42423); through Gen. A.W. Greely, Ferguson breech-loading rifle with bayonet, belonging to Gen. | John Watts de Peyster (loan and returned) (42810). Deposit. (See also under Brig. Gen. W. H. Carter.)
Warp, H. A., Rochester, N. Y.: Large mass of amethystine quartz (42254); large slab of meteoric iron from Mukerop, Africa(41880). Purchase. L.P.X.
Warp, Prof. Lester F., U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D. C.: Three plants. 42100.
Warp, Rowand, London, England. Hippopotamus (42639); skin and skull of Connochietes gnu (42719). Purchase.
ieee Xe
Warpb’s Narurat Science EstasiisHMENT, Rochester, N. Y.: Three hundred gram section of Franceyille meteorite (purchase) L. P. X. (41472); monkey skin and skull (purchase) (41906); specimen of agate from Brazil (purchase) L. P. X. (42026); skin of White egret, skins of Magpie lark, nest of Guacharo bird and nest of Magpie lark (purchase) L. P. X. (42177); skins of Brush turkey, Leipoa ocellata (purchase) (42196); specimen of pyromorphite and 5 specimens of alexandrite (purchase) L. P. X. (42095); skeleton of a monkey (purchase) (42524); -44 specimens consisting principally of Indo-Pacific marine shells (purchase ) (42929).
Warrretp, Dr. W. A., Washington, D.C.: Foetus. 41689.
Warner, W.V., U.S. National Museum. Six sulphur matches manufactured at Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, in 1835 (42237); 120 specimens of miscellaneous insects from the District of Columbia and vicinity (42619). (See also under Washington Biologists’ Field Club).
WASHINGTON AGRICULTURAL Pullman, Wash. Received through Prof. C. V. Piper. Thirty-eight types and 36 cotypes: also 29 specimens of Tipulidee. 41765.
WasHINGTON AsyLUuM HospiraL, Washington, D. C.: Brain of a colored woman. 41639.
WasHineton BroLtoaists FIELD CLUB (through E. A. Schwarz, H. 8. Barber, August Busck, Rolla P. Currie, H. G. Dyar, and W. V. Warner): Three thousand four hundred and three insects of all orders from Plummers Island, Maryland, captured during the season of 1903. 42620.
WASHINGTON, CHARLES, U. 8. Nationai Museum: Snake (Diadophis punctatus, from Berwyn, Md. (41482); shrew (Blarina brevicauda) (41739).

<<<Page: 177>>>

Watkins, Estate of J. E. Received
through Mrs. J. E. Watkins, WashUnited States flag used “John Bull.’’
inaton, Di Cr: on the locomotive 41697. Wess, J. C., Esprey, Fla.: Snake (Diadophis punctatus) from Florida. 41469. Wesser, H. J. Williams. ) WeeEpoN, W.C., U.S. National Museum: Specimen of Black-throated blue warbler, Dendroica cerulescens. 42817. : WeinpERG, FRANK, Woodside, L. L.: Fight plants. 42902. e We pon, W. F. R. (See under Oxford, Museum of the University of. ) WELLAUER, Emit, Washington, D. C.: Model of the Morse telegraph instrument of 1844 (41567); 5 models of propellers (42362); model of John Stevens’ propeller of 1804 (42363). Purchase. WELLER, Prof. Sruart, University of Chicago, Ill.: Twenty species of fossils from the Decker Ferry and other formations of New Jersey. 42580.
WELLMAN, E. 8., Naples, Me.: Specimen |
sehist from
41619.
of garnetiferous mica Cumberland County, Me.
WELLS, WiuuiaM, Las Vegas, N. Mex.: Three specimens of sandstone. 42447.
Werner, Dr. Franz, First Zoological Institute, Imperial University, Vienna, Austria: Two lizards from Exchange. 41590. (See also under Vienna, Austria. )
Western New York InsrirutTion FOR Dear Murtes, Rochester, N. Y.: Specimens of Rochester shales bryozoans. Loan. 42460.
Wuarton, J. R., Butte, Mont.: Large
crystal of smoky quartz. 41625.
Wuearton, Mrs. M. B., Washington, D.C.: Photograph of oil painting of Gen. Alex. Macomb, U. S. Army; framed photographs of Maj. Gen. John Sedgwick, U. 8. Army, and a sash worn by him during the civil war. Loan. 8887. (See also under Mrs. F. C. d’ Hautville. )
Exchange.
Europe. |
WHeEELER, C. F., Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of Quercus heterophylla from the District of Columbia (41569); plant (41666); plants from the District of Columbia (41733, 41845).
| WHEELER, J., Washington, D. C.: Plant (See under Mrs. T. A.
from Maryland collected by F. H. Hillman. 41758.
Waitt, Davin, U. 8. Geological Survey. Received through the Survey: Two plants from Virginia (41541); specimen of fire clay from Clay mine, Hammond, W. Va. (41768). (See also under Frederic Brown; James Campbell; H. M. Lane; 8S. W. McCallie. )
WickHamM, Prof. H. F., lowa City, Lowa: Specimens of parasitic Hymenoptera. 41898
Witcox, Dr. G. B., Fort Stanton, N. Mex. Received through Department of Agriculture: Plant from New Mexico. 42784.
Witcox, Brig. Gen. T. E., U. 8. Army (Retired). Received through Department of Agriculture: Two specimens of Asarum caudatum from Vancouver, Wash. (41769). (See also under D. McLean. )
Wiuuiams, A., Berryville, Va.: Tower musket. (Loan.) 9475 (Returned).
WILLIAMS, GARDNER F. (See under De Beers Consolidated Mines, Kimberly, South Africa. )
Wiuuiams, R. W., jr., Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.: Specimen of Vermilion flycatcher, Pyrocephalus rubineus mexicanus, from Florida. 41795.
Wiurams, Mrs. T. A. Received through H. J. Webber, Department of Agriculture: Fifteen thousand plants belonging to the late T. A. Williams. 41337.
Wixuramson, Prof. E. B., Bluffton, Ind.: Three specimens of insects (41755); received through Rolla P. Currie, 70 specimens of North American dragonflies (42210). (See also under Homer Kapp. )

<<<Page: 178>>>

Witurmort, C. W., Ottawa, Canada: Spec|
42859. Wituis, RrcHarp, Olga, Wash.: Crabs,
imens of Canadian minerals.
. * | shrimps, and a nudibranch mollusk.
41969.
Witurston, Prof. S. W., and E. B. Branson, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.: Large specimen of Inoceramus sp.
from the chalk formation near Monu|
ment Rocks, Kans.
41940. WiuioucHsy, Prof. C. C. (See under Peabody Museum, Boston, Mass. )
Logan County,
Wiumer, Col. L. Worrninaton, Ryde, Isle of Wight, England: Specimens of miscellaneous shells from various localities and Cretaceous fossils from the ‘“Perma bed’’ at Ryde (41965); 50 specimens of Mesozoic fossils from the Isle of Wight (42796).
Witson, F. H., Brunswick, Me.: Specimen of glassy quartz from a quarry at Topsham, Me. L. P. X. 41995.
Witson, Miss G. R., Fort George, Fla.: | Holothurian representing the species |
Thyone briareus. 42519.
Witson, J. Frank, U. S. National Mu|
seum: Archeological collections of the late Thomas Wilson, numbering 19,334
specimens. Purchase. 42207. WINDLE, Francis, Westchester, Pa.: Plants from Pennsylvania (42555; 42742).
Wisg, Isaporr, Green River, Utah: Received through Prof. F. W. Clarke. |
Specimen of dark sandstone with car-
notite from San Rafael swell, Utah. |
42490.
Wirt, Grorce C., Austin, Tex.: Two specimens of Nyctinomus. 42344.
Woop, FraNK W., Crimora, Va.: Received
through W. C. Phalen. Stalactitic | psilomelane from Virginia. 42575.
Woop, N. R., U. S. National Museum: Specimens of Mus musculus (41926; 42102; 42077); 6 eggs of Gallus gallus (42347).
WoopEND Curto Company, Denver, Colo. :
Ten specimens of minerals. Purchase. L.P.X. 41633.
WoopGate, JoHN, Fort Wingate, N. Mex.: Two plants from New Mexico. 41270.
| Wooton, Prof. E. O., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.: Bat (Euderma) from Mesilla Park (41592) ; 4 plants from New Mexico (42085).
Worcester, Prof. Dean C. (See under Philippine Museum, Manila, P. I.
Worrtn, 8. G. (See under Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisherles. )
WortHEN, C. K., Warsaw, Ill.: Eleven birds’ skins, principally Birds of Paradise (purchase) (41310); skin of Astrapia splendidissima (purchase) L. P. X. (41511); Florida crocodile (purchase) (41364); 3 birds’ skins (purchase) L. P. X. (42105); skin of Lycocorax obiensis (purchase) (42127).
WreN, CHRISTOPHER, Plymouth, Pa.: Six sandstone disks from Luzerne County, Pa. 41994.
| YaKovierr, Herr Nrxouat, Institute of
Mines, St. Petersburg, Russia: Two wax
casts of the hinge of a supposed new
genus of Crassatellitidee from Russia.
41967.
| Yate University Museum, New Haven, Conn.: Received through Dr. C. E. Beecher. Specimen of hypotype and ten fragments of Romingeria umbellifera; 5 opercula of Maclurea lozani, and 580 specimens of Hamilton formation brachiopods from Canandaigua Lake, New York. 42129:
Youna, R. T. (no address given): Cone from France. 42302.
| ZELEDON, Josk Antonio, Washington, D. ’ ; g )
C.: Bow and 12 arrows from Costa Rica. 42721.
ZELEDON, Josk C., San José, Costa Rica: Specimen of salamander ( Oedipina uniformis,and a leech ( Bipalium kewense(?) Mos). 41718.
ZeLL, Lucian M. (See under American Gem and Pearl Company. )
ZoutLer, Wiuit1AM Norris, Aquiree, Central Porto Rico: Received through Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology. Two stone idols and a broken bowl. 42914.

<<<Page: 179>>>

ZOLLIKOFER, E, H., St. Gallen, Switzer| Zuck, Dr. F. M., Holbrook, Ariz.: Re-
land: Small mammals from Switzerceived through Dr. Walter Hough. land. 42642. Breech-loading Springfield rifle and
bayonet, issued by order of General Miles to arm the settlers of Arizona during the Geronimo outbreak, and three cartridges. 42497.
ZOOLOGICAL MusEuM OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COPENHAGEN. (See under Copenhagen, Denmark. )

<<<Page: 180>>>

——— a Ss ee
beg te
Annual Report | of the | Board of Regents | of the | Smithsonian Institution, | showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of | the In‘stitution | for the | year ending June 30,, 1901. | Report | of the | U. 8. National Museum. Washington: Government Printing Office. | 1904. | 8vo., pp. I-X VII, 1-998, pls. 1-50, text figs.
279.
Smithsonian Institution. | United States National Museum. | — | Special Bulle|
tin. | — | American Hydroids. | — | Part II. | The Sertularidz, | with fortyone plates. | By | Charles Cleveland
Nutting, | Professor of Zoology, University of lowa. | — | Washington: | Govyernment Printing Office. | 1904.
Special Bulletin U.S. Nat. Mus., No. 4 (Part IT), 4to., pp. I, II, 1-325, pls. 1-41. 159 figs.
Report upon the condition and progress of the U. 8. National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1901. By Richard Rathbun. pp. 1-174.
Report on the Department of Anthropology for the year 1900-1901. By William H. Holmes. pp. 51-61.
| Report on the Department of Biology for the year 1900-1901. By Frederick W. True. . pp. 63-80.
Report on the Department of Geology for the year 1900-1901. By George P. Merrill. pp. 81-91.
Report on the exhibit of the United

<<<Page: 181>>>

States National Museum at the PanAmerican Exposition, Buffalo, New York, 1901. William H. Holmes, and George P. Merrill. pp. 177-231, pls. 1-72.
Flint implements and fossil remains from |
a sulphur spring at Afton, Indian Territory. By William Henry Holmes. pp. 233-252, pls. 1-26.
Classification and arrangement of the ex|
By Frederick W. True, |
hibits of an anthropological museum. pp. 253-
| By William Henry Holmes.
278,. ple i:
| Archeological field work in northeastern
Arizona. The Museum-Gates Expedi-
tion of 1901. By Walter Hough. pp.
| 279-358, pls. 1-101.
_ Narrative of a visit to the Indian tribes of the Purus River, Brazil. By Joseph
Beal Steere. pp. 359-393, pls. 1-9.
Report upon the condition and progress
of the U. 8. National Museum during |
the year ending June 30, 1902. Richard Rathbun. pp. 1-168.
Report on the Department of Anthropol|
ogy for the year 1901-1902. liam H. Holmes. pp. 53-58.
By Wil-
Report on the Department of Biology for the year 1901-1902. By Frederick W. True. pp. 59-76.
Report on the Department of Geology for FROM VOLUME 26, PROCEEDINGS
No. 1333. Noteson Orthoptera from Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona,
and Texas,
tions of new species. By | Andrew Nelson Caudell. |
dard
pp. 77
A review of the Cyprinoid fishes of Japan. By David Starr Jordan and Henry W. Fowler. pp. 811-862, figs. 1-8.
. The Phasmidz, or Walkingsticks of the United States.
5-809, pl. Lv. No. 1334.
By Andrew Nelson Caudell. |
pp. 863-885, pls. LVI—-Lrx.
No. 18386. from the shell heaps of the Maine coast. By Daniel Webster Prentiss. pp. 887, 888, fig. 1.
No. 1337. Revision of the Crustacea of the genus Lepidopa. By James E. Benedict. pp. 889-895, figs. 1-8.
with descrip|
Description of an extinct mink
| the year 1901-1902. Merrill. pp. 77-84.
_ Aboriginal American Basketry: . Studies in a textile art without machinery. By Otis Tufton Mason. pp. 171-548, pls. 1-248.
The Herpetology of Leonhard Stejneger. 1-197.
Wokas: A primitive food of the Klamath
Indians. By Frederick Vernon Coville.
pp. 725-739, pls. 1-138.
By George P.
Porto Rico. By pp. 549-724, figs.
| No. 1338. A review of the Siluroid fishes
or catfishes of Japan. By David Starr Jordan and Henry W. Fowler. pp.
897-911, figs. 1, 2.
Notice of a collection of fishes made by H. H. Brimley in Cane River and_ Bollings Creek, North Carolina, with a description of a new spe-
cies of Notropis (N. brimley’). pp. 913, 914.
On the relations of the fishes of the family Lampridide or
| Ophas. By Theodore Gill.
| pp915-924, figs. 1-3.
Amphipoda from Costa Rica. By Rey. Thomas R. R. Stebbing. pp. 925-931, pls. Lx,
No. 1342.
| No. 1339.
No. 1340.
No. 1341.
Synopsis of the family Astartidee, with a review of the American species. By William H. Dall. pp. 933-951,
} pls. LXI, LXIIr.

<<<Page: 182>>>

. 1345.
. 1344.
. 1345.
1346.
1350.
1352.
1353.
1354.
1350.
An Alaskan Corymorpha-like | hydroid. By Samuel Fes| senden Clarke. pp. 953-958, |
figs. 1-7.
On some neglected genera of | By Theodore Gill. |
fishes. pp. 959-962.
Notice of a small collection of fishes, including a rare eel, recently received from H.
Maxwell Lefroy, Bridgetown, Barbados, West Indies. By Barton A. Bean. |
pp. 963, 964, fig. 1. On some fish genera of the first edition of Cuvier’s Régne
Animal and Oken’s Names. |
By Theodore Gill. 967.
pp. 965-
Contributions to the Natural History of the Isopoda. By Harriet Richardson. 1-89, figs. 1-92.
. A review of the Scorpeenoid
fishes of Japan. Starr Jordan Chapin Starks. pls. 1, u, figs. 1-21.
By David
A revision of the American Great Horned Owls. By Harry C. Oberholser. — pp. 177-192.
A new batrachian and a new reptile from the Trias of Arizona. Lucas. pp. 193-195, pls. 111, Iv.
A review of the wrens of the
genus Troglodytes. By Harry |
C. Oberholser. pl. v.
pp. 197-210,
Report on the fresh-water Bry|
pp. |
and Edwin | pp. 91-175, |
By Frederic A. |
No. 1347. Report on the fresh-water Os-
tracoda of the United States
National Museum, including | a revision of the subfamilies and genera of the family Cypridide. By Richard W. Sharpe. pp. 969-1001, pls. LXIV—LXIX.
| No. 1348. A review of the fishes of Japan belonging to the family Hexagrammide. By David Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. pp. 1003-
1013, figs. 1-3.
| No. 1349. Notes on the fish genera named Macrodon. By Theodore
Gill. pp. 1015, 1016.
Notes on a Killer Whale (genus Orcinus) from the coast of
| No. 1357.
Maine. By Frederick W. True. pp. 227-230, pls. vi,
No. 13858. A review of the Cottidee or sculpins found in the waters of Japan. By David Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. pp. 231-835, figs. 1-43.
No. 1359. Notes on the bats collected by William Palmer in Cuba. By Gerrit S. Miller, jr. pp. 337-348, pl. rx.
No. 1360. List of Hemiptera-Heteroptera of Las Vegas Hot Springs, New Mexico, collected by Messrs. E. A. Schwarz and
Herbert S. Barber. By Philip R. Uhler. pp. 549364.
ozoa of the United States. |
‘By Charles B. Davenport. pp. 211-221, pl. v1.
. On the species of White Chi-
merafromJapan. By David Starr Jordan and John Otterbein Snyder. pp. 223-226, figs. 1, 2.
No. 1361. A revision of American Siphonaptera, or fleas, together with a complete list and bibliography of the group. By Carl F. Baker. pp. 365469, pls. X-xxvi.

<<<Page: 183>>>

. 1363.
. 1364.
. 1365.
. 1367.
. The Aleyrodids,
or Mealywinged flies, of California, with American species. By Florence E. Bemis. pp. 471-537, pls. XXVII-XXXVIIL.
Studies in Old World forficulids or earwigs, and blattids or cockroaches. By James A. G. Rehn. pp. 539-560.
Studies in American mantids or soothsayers. By James A. G. Rehn. pp. 561-574.
A review of the Japanese fishes of the family of Agonide. By David Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. pp. 575-599, figs. 1-13.
. The osteology of some Bery-
coid fishes. pin Starks. figs. 1-10.
A new genus and two new species of crustaceans of the family Albuneidee from the Pacific Ocean; with remarks on the probable use of the antennule in Albunea and Lepidopa. By James E. Benedict. pp. 621625, figs. 1-5.
By Edwin Chapp. 601-619,
No. 1368. A new species of Argulus, with
No. 1369. Contributions to the natural |
a more complete account of
two species already described. By Charles Branch | Wilson. pp. 627-655, figs. 1-38.
history of the Isopoda. V.—
Isopod crustaceans of the | North |
coast of By Harriet Richpp657-681, figs.
northwest America. ardson. 1-39.
No. 1370. Description of a new African
Weaver-bird. By Harry C. Oberholser. p. 683.
references to other |
som:
. 13874
. 1375
pdod h
0. 1378.
. 1379.
. 1380
1581.
New Dragon-fly nymphs in the United States National Museum. By James G. Needham. pp. 685-720, pls. XXXVIII-XLIV, figs. 1-11.
New molluscan genera from the Carboniferous. By George H. Girty. pp. 721-736, pls. XLV-XLVII.
Descriptions of two new birds from Somali Land. By Harry C. Oberholser. pp. 737-739.
Two new ferns of the genus Polypodium, trom Jamaica. By William R. Maxon. pp. 741-744.
Tineid moths from British Columbia, with descriptions of new species. By August Buseck. pp. 745-778.
The Lepidoptera of the Kootenay District of British Columbia. By Harrison G. Dyar. pp. 779-938.
Notes on collections of fishes from Oahu Island and Laysan Island, Hawaii, with descriptions of four new species. By David Starr Jordan and John Otterbein Snyder. pp. 939-948.
Two Orthoptera, hitherto unrecorded, from the United States. By Andrew Nelson Caudell. pp. 949-952, figs. 1-3.
A new fern, Goniophlebium pringlei, from Mexico. By William R. Maxon. pp. 953-954, pl. xiv, fig. 1.
The Persimmon Creek meteorite. By Wirt Tassin. pp.
955-959, pls. xix, L, fig. L.
Schmidtina, a genus of Japanese sculpins. By David Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. p. 961.

<<<Page: 184>>>

ST er a alk a haa ri maa
AMERICAN: ORNITHOLOGISTS’ | ASHMEAD, Wituram H. Classification
UNION. (Committee on Nomenclature.) .Twelfth Supplement to the American Ornithologists’ Union Check List of North American Birds. Auk, xx, No. 3, July, 1903, pp. 331-368. The Twelfth Supplement to the American Ornithologists’ Union Check List gives the rulings of the committee on 83 cases. A list of deferred cases is also given.
ARNOLD, Raper. The Paleontology and stratigraphy of the marine Pliocene and Pleistocene of San Pedro,
California. ‘Memoirs Cal. Acad. Sei., 111, 1903, pp. 1-420, pls. I-XXXVII.
A review of the paleontology and geology of the beds in the vicinity of San Pedro, with descriptions, figures, sections, and views of the locality and a bibliography. Four hundred and eight species are considered, of which many are new. The types of new species were given to the National Museum, so far as they were controlled by Mr. Arnold, and now form part of the collection. The Pyramidellidz and corals of this volume were worked up by Dall and Bartseh, and Vaughan, respectively (q. v.). The new species described by Mr. Arnold are as follows, in zoological order:
Terebratalia smithi, Leda minuta Fabr. var. precursor, Pecten (Chlamys) jordani, Pecten (Chalmys) latiauritus Con., var. fragilis, Peclen (Plagioctenium) newsomi, Crassinella branneri, Aligena cerritensis, Callista subdiaphana Cpr. var. pedroana, Semele pulchra Sby, var. montereyi, Pleurotoma (Borsonia) bartschi, Pleurotoma (Borsonia) dali, Plewrotoma (Borsonia) hooveri, Pleurotoma (Leucosyrina) pedroana, Pleurotoma (Genota) cooperi, Drillia johnsoni, Drillia merriami, Drillia renaudi, Bela sanctamonice, Mangia (Cythara) branneri, Mangilia (Mangilia) hooveri, Mangilia ( Mangilia) interfossa var. pedroana, Mangilia (Mangilia) oldroydi, Mangilia (Mangilia) painei, Mangilia { Taranis) strongi, Mangilia (Spirotropis) smith, Mitra (Mitromorpha) intermedia, Nassa cerritensis, Nassa versicolor C. B. Ad., var. hooveri, Columbella solidula Rve., var. precursor, Columbella (Anachis) minima, Columbella (Esopus) oldroydi, Columbella (Amphissa) ventricosa, Eupleura muriciformis Brod., var. curta, Trophon (Boreotrophon) cerritensis, Trophon (Boreotrophon) pedroana, Trophon (Boreotrophon) orpheus, var. precursor, Ocinebra keepi, Ocinebralurida Midd., var. cerritensis, Bittium williamsoni, Paludestrina curta, Paludestrina stokesi, Delphinoidea coronadoensis, Margarita optabilis Cpr. vars. knechti, nodosa, and pedroana.
NAT Mus 1904——11
of the fossorial, predaceous, and parasitic wasps, or the superfamily Vespoidea. Paper No. 15. Can. Ent., XXxv, July, 1902, pp. 199-205. Treats of the family Myrmosidz, which is divided into three subfamilies: (1) Bradynobeenine, (2) Myrmosine, and (3) Apterogynine. The Myrmosine are again divided into two tribes, (1) Myrmosini and (2) Chyphotini. In all nine genera are tabulated. Two new phytophagous Hymenoptera. Can. Ent., XXXV, August, 1903, p. 283. Describes Xiphydria erythrogaster and Calameuta johnsoni from New Jersey. Classification of the gall-wasps and the parasitie Cynipoides, or the superfamily Cynipoidea. III, Psyche, X, August, 1903, pp. 140-155. Treats of the subfamily Xystine and part of the family Cynipide. Thesubfamily Xystine is divided into two tribes: (1) Loboscelidiini and (2) Xystini. Eleven genera are tabulated. The family Cynipide is divided into three subfamilies: (1) Synergine, (2) Cynipine, and (3) Ibaliine. IntheSynerginz 8 genera are tabulated, one, Synophromorpha, being new. Doctor Ashmead subdivides the Cynipine, or the true gall-makers, into 5 tribes: (1) Cynipini, (2) Rhoditini, (3) Pediaspidini, (4) Aulacini, and (5) Eschatocerini. In the tribe Cynipini 32 genera are tabulated.
A new Paranomia from British Columbia.
Can. Ent. XXXV, Sept., 1903, p. 243. Describes Paranomia venablesii.
Two new hymenopterous para-
sites. Journ, N. Y. Ent. Soc., X1, Sept., 1903, No. 3, p. 144.
Describes Orgilus kearfotti and Protapanteles TECUTVATTR.
Classification of the gall-wasps and the parasitic Cynipoids, or the superfamily Cynipoidea. IV.
Psyche, X, Oct., 1903, pp. 210-216.
Treats of the tribes Rhoditini, Pediaspidini Aulacini, and Eschatocerini; also of the subfamily Ibaliinee. In all 21 genera are tabulated, one, Pseudaulax being new. In an addenda a revised generic table of the Onychiince is given, in order to include two new genera described by Abbé Kieffer.
Classification of the fossorial, predaceous, and parasitic wasps, or the superfamily Vespoidea. (Paper No. 16).

<<<Page: 185>>>

ASHMEAD, Witiram H.—Continued.
Can. Ent., XXXv, Noy., 1903, pp. 303-310.
Treats of the family Mutillide, which is divided into two subfamilies, (1) Mutillini and (2) Ephutini. The first subfamily is divided into two tribes, (1) Phtopsidini and (2) Mutillini. A generic table of the Photopsidini is then given in which 17 genera are tabulated, four of which are new, namely, Tetraphotopsis, Neophotopsis, Bruesia, and Leucospilomutilla.
A new Ammoplanus. Ent. News, xtv, Nov., 1903, p. 295. Describes Ammoplanus cockerelli from New Mexico.
Classification of the fossorial, predaceous, and parasitic wasps, or the superfamily Vespoidea. (Paper No. 17.)
Can. Ent., XXXv, Dec., 1903, pp. 323-332.
Treats of the tribe Mutillini. In this paper
31 genera are tabulated, 11 being described as new, viz: Spilomutilla, Viereckia, Apteromutilla,
Dimorphomutilla, Euspinotia, Radoszkowskius, | Blakeius, Myrmecomutilla, Peringueya, Pristo-
mutilla, and Nenomutilla.
A new joint-worm parasite from Russia. Can. Ent., XXXv, Dec., 1903, pp. 332, 333. Describes Homoporus vassiliefi. Classification of the fossorial, predaceous and parasitic wasps, or the superfamily Vespoidea. (Paper No. 18—conclusion. ) Can. Ent. XXXVI, Jan., Treats of the subfamily Ephutine, which is divided into two tribes: (1) Ephutini and (2) Spheerophthalmini. 13 generaare tabulated,
1904, pp. 5-9.
of which Ephutopsis, Pycnomutilla and Reedia |
are new.
Description of the type of the |
genus Curriea Ashmead. Ent. New., Xv, Jan., 1904, p. 18. Describes and figures Curriea fasciatipennis from Africa.
Descriptions of fournew horn-tails. Can. Ent., XXXVI, Mar., 1904, pp. 63, 64.
Describes Sterex taxodii, S. fiskei, Paururus californicus and P. hopkinsi; also the male of P. pinicola Ashm.
A list of the Hymenoptera of the Philippine Islands, with descriptions of new species. Journ, N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, Mar., 1904, pp. 1-22. Records 183 species of Hymenoptera from the Philippines, two genera and 31 species being described as new.
~ ~— A new Alysiid from Ceylon. Ent. News, Xv, Apr., 1904, p. 113. Describes Asphilota ceylonica.
ASHMEAD, Wriiuram H. Descriptions
of new Hymenoptera from Japan. 1. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc. x1, June, 1904, pp. 65-84. 44 new species are described.
— Classification of the Chalcid flies,
or the superfamily Chalcidoidea, with descriptions of new species in the Carnegie Museum, collected in South
America by Herbert H. Smith. Memoirs Carnegie Musewm, 1, 1908-4, No. 4, pp. 221-551.
This forms a large quarto volume of 326 pages, with 9 plates, containing 51 figures. It is devoted to the classification of the Chalcid flies, or the superfamily Chalcidoidea, and to describing the new genera and species in the Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, Pa. It is based principally upon the extensive collection of these insects made by Mr. Herbert H. Smith in South America, although others in the U. S. National Museum are also included. The work is divided into two parts; the first part is devoted to the classification of the Chalecid flies of the world; the second part deals with the South American Chalcidoidea, and contains, besides the descriptions of the new genera and species, a full bibliographieal catalogue of all the known species. Dr. Ashmead has been studying these insects for over 25 years and he now recognizes and defines 14 families, namely, Agaonidze, Torymide, Chalcididz, Eurytomide, Perilampide, Eucharide, Miscogasteride, Cleonymide, Eneyrtide, Pteromalide, Elasmide, Eulophide, Trichogrammide, and Mymaride. Each of these families is taken up in order, fully defined and discussed and separated into subfamilies, tribes, and genera. Full tables for the recognition of the families, subfamilies, tribes, and genera are given, and with the aid of these tables the student should have no difficulty in classifying his material in this great complex. In all 621 genera are recognized as valid and tabulated. In the second part over 300 new species are described from South America. A full bibliography of the genera terminates part first, in which the type of each genus is specified. The last ten pages (pp. 522-532) are devoted to the literature on the subject, arranged in alphabetieal order. This is the first complete work ever published on these minute and obseure Hymenoptera, and it is hoped that Dr, Ashmead’s work willstimulate and facilitate their study.
Three new Ichneumon flies from
Russia. Can. Ent., XXXVI, 1904. Describes Pristomerus schreineri, Femelucha plutelle and Epiura carpocapse. New generic names in the Chalcidoidea.

<<<Page: 186>>>

BANKS, NatHan. A list of Arachnida
BIBLIOGRAPHY. Gs
ASHMEAD, Wiiuram H.—Continued. BANKS, NatHan. Four new species of
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 126. injurious mites. Gives six new names to genera preoccupied Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Mar., 1904, pp. 53-56, in other departments of zoology. 1 plate. Remarks on honey bees. Describes 2 species injurious to the orange, Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash. v1, 1904, pp. 120, 121. 1 to cotton, and 1 to the mango. In this paper Dr. Ashmead describes twonew | ———— Notes on entomology. genera, Megapis and Micrapis, and arranges Science (new series), XIX, Mar. 18, 1904, the genuine honey bees under three genera. pp. 470-472. BAKER, Cart F. A revision of Ameri| Reviews of several recent papers. can Siphonaptera, or fleas, together | ——— Two new species of Hydroptilide. with a complete list and bibliography Ent. News, XV, Apr., 1904, p. 116, 2 figs. Descriptions of 2 new species from near of the group. Washington. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvi1, No. 1361, Feb. 16, 1904, pp. 365-469, pls. 10-26. — Neuropteroid insects from New BANGS, Outram. Birds:and mammals Mexico. = from Honduras | Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., XXX, Apr., 1904, pp.
97-110, 1 plate. A list of 97 species, from the territory, 12 of them being described as new.
» Bull. Mus. Comp. Zovl., XX X1x, No.6, July, 1903, pp. 141-159.
Notes on a collection of birdsand mammals | collected by W. W. Brown, jr., at Ceiba and | Two rare Neuropteroid insects. Yaruca, Honduras. One hundred and six Ent. News, xv, May, 1904, p. 171. species of birds are enumerated, of which the | Note on Panorpa rufa and Mantispa viridis. following are described as new: Chloronerpes . . : . .
2 SEEN Se bree en Woronerpes | ______ Cyrious habit of two Ortalid flies. simplex allophyeus (p. 145), Picwmnus dimotus | E es : ; me
aes PERS rn ax Ent. News, Xv, May, 1904, pp. 171,172. (p. 146), Dendrornis nana confinis (p. 150), and A : anna ie open .
as ae Elevation of wings in Callopistria anunlipes, Arremonops conirostris centratus (p. 156). | < x a
BPS ah Nace ie and Pseudotephritis vau.
Notes are offered on eleven species of mammals, one of which is described as new, viz: | ———— New genera and species of nearcSigmodon hispidus furvus (p. 158). tic spiders.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., June, 1904, pp. 109119, 2 plates.
from Haiti, with descriptions of new
i Decriptions or 4 new genera, and 22 new species. i species. 5 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., July, 1903, ne es pp. 340-345, 1 plate. | BARTSCH, Pauu. A new Scissurella A list of 66 species from the island, 7 of from Patagonia. which are described as new. Nautilus, XV11, 1903, pp. 90, 91. A new species of Habrophlebia Scissurella dalli Bartsch is described as new. Ent. News, Xtv, Sept., 1903, p. 235, 1 fig. — A new landshell from California. Description of H. americana. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv1, June 25, 1903, —— Concerning Gastrophilus epilepsalis pps 103,10 : See z ee Sonorella wolcottiona Bartsch is described as French. See
Can. Ent., XXXV, Dece., 1903, p. 333. + hae ae Questioning the position of this maggot. —— Notes on the herons of the Dis-
—— Additions to the list of New York trict of Columbia. : Pentat 7 Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, STUO TOSS: I, pts. 1, 2, Dee. 9, 1903, pp, 104-111, pls. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Dec., 1908, p. 227.
a : é: i : XXXII-XXXVIII. Eight species added to New York list. This paper deals with the herons found ia
Some new Neuropteroid insects. the District of Columbia, the breeding habits Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Dec., 1903, pp. of the Black-crowned Night heron and Green 236-243, 2 figs. heron. It alsoannounces a scheme for markDescriptions of 19 new species and 1 new ing young birds with aluminum bands and genus. gives the results of a season’s returns. —— New species of Hemerobius. —__ Limax maximus L. in California. Can. Ent., XXXvI, Mar., 1904, pp. 61-63. Nautilus, XVIII, p. 12, 1904. Descriptions of 5 new species. The above slug is here recorded from San —— The Arachnida of Florida. Bernardino, California. ‘Proc, Acad; Nat. (Sci. Phila:, Mar:, 1904, || ——— == (Seealso under WILLIAM H. Datu. )
pp. 120-147, 2 plates. < A list of 279species, 13 of which are described BASSLER, R. 5. (See under E. O,
as new. ULrRicn. )

<<<Page: 187>>>

BEAN, Barton A. Notice of a collection of fishes made by H. H. Brimley in Cane Riverand Bollings Creek, North Carolina, with a description of a new species of Notropis (.N. brimleyi. )
Proc., UMS. Nat eMits! exeXvi., aNOW 1839) July 6, 1903, pp. 913, 914.
Notice of a small collection of
town, Barbados, West Indies. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, No. 1845, July 10, 1903, pp. 963, 964, 1 fig. A new pelican fish from the Pacific.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV,.Quar. issue, I, pts. 3,4, Apr. 11, 1904, p. 254. BEMIS, Fiorence E. The Aieyrodids, or Mealy-winged flies of California, with references to other American species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvii, No. 1362, Feb. 16, 1904, pp. 471-537, pls. 27-37. BENEDICT, James E. Revision of the Crustacea of the genus Lepidopa. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXv1, No. 13887, July 6, 1903, pp. 889-895, text figs. 1-8.
Seven species are included in the genus, of which four are described as new. cies are represented in the collection of the U. S. National Museum.
Six spe|
A new genus and two new species — of crustaceans of the family Albuneidee | from the Pacific Ocean; with remarks | on the probable use of the antennulee in |
Albunea and Lepidopa.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,XXviI, No. 1367, Feb.
16, 1904, pp. 621-625, text figs. 1-5. Lophomastia diomedex, new genus and species; Albunea elioti, new species. BENJAMIN, Marcus. John Elfreth Watkins.  Science (new series), XVIII, No. 453, Sept. 4, 1903, pp. 300, 301.
BOWDISH, B. S. An abnormal bill of
Melanerpes portoricensis. Auk, XX1, Jan., 1904, pp. 58-55, pl. x1.
Note on a Porto Rican woodpecker with an
abnormal bill. ;
BRITTON, N. L. Rose. )
BUSCK, AvuaGust.
(See under Josrpn N.
Tineid Moths from
British Columbia, with descriptions of
new species. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxXvit, No. 1375, May 25, 1904, pp. 745-778.
fishes, including a rare eel, recently re| CAUDELL, Anprew NELson.
ceived from H. Maxwell Lefroy, Bridge-
| CASANOWICZ,I.M. Oriental and clas-
sical Archeology in the United States National Museum. Records of the Past, 11, No. 12, Dee., 1903. pp. 355-361, 7 illustrations. A description of the Divisions of ‘Historic Archeology and Aistorie Religions, their contents, arrangement, and significance.
Notes on Orthoptera from Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, and Texas, with de-
scription of new species. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XXvi, No. 1388, July
6, 1903, pp. 775-801, pl. 55. New species: Heliastus guanieri, Melanoplus coloradus, M. latifercula, Psinidia sulcifrons var. amplicornus.
| —— The Phasmide, or Walkingsticks,
of the United States. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, No. 1335, July 9, 1908, pp. 863-885, pls. 56-59.
New subfamily: Timemine; new genera: Parabacillus, Pseudosermyle, Megaphasma; new species: Pseudosermyle truncata, P. banksii, Diapromra arizonensis, Timema californica.
On the systematic position of the
Orthopterous genus Aulocara Scudder. Can. Ent., XX Xv, 1903, p. 302. Shows this genus to belong in the sub family Ordipodine.
— Notes on the Orthoptera of Bermuda with a description of a new species, Gryllus bermudensis.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v, 1908, pp. 329-331.
Notes on Phasmide. Ent. News, 19038, pp. 314, 315.
Compares Parabacillus Cand. with Septynia Pant. Describesimmaturity of Diaptwromera arizonensis Cand. Note on Timema californica found on evergreens in California.
Two Orthoptera, hitherto unre-
corded, from the United States. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxv, No. 1378, June 2, 1904, pp. 949-952, figs. 1-3.
New variety, Heliastus swmichrasti var. subrosea. This species is recorded from Texas, and a Phasmid, Haplopus evadne Westw., from Florida.
— Orthoptera of the Expedition. Harriman Alaska Expedition, pp. 117, 118, 1904. Melanoplus borealis Fieb. recorded.
The genus Cyphoderris. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., Xu, 1904, pp. 47-53. New variety: Cyphoderris monstrosa var. pipert,

<<<Page: 188>>>

i lee i a a a a
CAUDELL, ANpREw Netson. <A new Forficulid from the Philippines. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, p. 108. New species: Auchenomus minor.
Notes on some Orthoptera from British Columbia. Ent. News, 1904, pp. 62, 63. Report on species collected in 1903, by Messrs. Dyar, Currie, and Caudell. No new species.
Branched hairs of Hymenoptera. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, pp. 5, 6.
An Orthopterous leaf-roller. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, pp. 46-49.
The synonomy of Cidipoda cincta Thom. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1994, p. 125. ‘New species, Mestabregma thomasi.
Injury by a cricket in the South. Bull. Div. Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric., No. 44, 1904, pp. 88, 89. Anurogryllus antillarum Louss, from southern United States.
recorded
(See also under Harrison G.
Dyar. )
CHAPMAN, Frank M.
from California. Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., xx, Apr. 25, 1904, pp. 159-162. ‘
Dendragapus obscurus sierre (p. 159) is described as new, and its affinities with D. obseurus and D. obscurus fuligimosus are discussed at some length. A table of measurements of the three forms is given at the end of the
paper.
CLARK, Austin H. The black-winged Palm Tanager. Auk, xX, No. 4, Oct., 1903, pp. 398-402. Notes on yariations of size and color in Tanagra palmarum melanoptera.
CLARKE, SamMvurEt FESSENDEN. Alaskan Corymorpha-like hydroid. Proc. U. S: Nat. Mius., xxXviI, No. 1848, July 11, 1903, pp. 953-958, text figs. 1-7. Redescription of an Alaskan so-called Rhizonema, Which now seems to belong either to Corymorpha or Lampra.
COLE, Lron J. Pycnogonida. of the
west coast of North America. Harriman Alaska Expedition, x, April, 1904, pp. 249-298, plates XI-XXVI.
The author includes inaterial from the Harriman Expedition, and certain forms from California. Thirteen speciesare reported upon. A table ot distribution is given, also
A new grouse
a table ot terms used by various authors in |
describing Pyenogonida. Some of the duplicates will come to the U.S. National Museum.
A new Culicid genus related to Corethra. Can. Ent., XXXV, July, 1908, pp. 189, 190. The author erects the genus Sayoimyia, named in honor of Thomas Say, and describes as new Corethra cinctipes.
Culex consobrinus again.
Can. Ent., XXxv, Aug., 1908, p. 218. Shows that the original description does not apply to any species of Culex occurring in this country other than the species identified by Mr. Coquillett as Consobrinus.
Four new species of Culex. Can. Ent., XXXV, Sept., 1903, pp. 255-257. Describes as new Culex cantator, C. aurifer, C. nanus, and C. discolor.
—— Notes on Culex kelloggii Theobald. Can. Ent., XXXV, Sept., 1903, p. 261. Cites the above name, Culex willistoni Giles and Culex affinis Adams as synonyms of Culex tarsalis Coquillett.
Eucorethra, a genus of Culicide. Can. Ent., XXXv, Oct., 1903, p. 272.
Gives a detailed description of this genus and of the species Eucorethra underwoodi, both of which had been described a few months earlier, by Prof. W. L. Underwood, from the early stages only.
A new Anopheles with unspotted wings. : Can. Ent., XXXV, Nov., 1903, p. 310.
Describes Anop/leles barberi from specimens collected a short distance from Washington, by Mr. H. S. Barber.
Several new diptera from North America. Can. Ent., XXXVI, Jan. 12, 1904, pp. 10-12.
Gives descriptions of five new species.
Reports on Californian and Nevyadan diptera, by C. F. Baker. (The descriptions of the new genus and species are by D. W. Coquillett. )
Invertebrata Pacifica Diptera, 1, Feb. 10,
1904, pp. 17-40.
Describes 1 new genus and 31 new species.
The genera of the dipterous family Empididee. Addenda.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, Feb. 13, 1904, ppD1, 52.
Gives several corrections to a paper on this subject, published on pages 245-272 of the preceding volume of the Proceedings.
A brief history of North American dipterology.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, Feb. 18, 1904, pp. 53-58.
Forms the annual address of the president of the Entomological Society of Washington and gives a short history of this science in North America.

<<<Page: 189>>>

COQUILLETT, D. W. Notes on Culex | CURRIE, Rotua Parreson. Notes on
nigritulus. Ent. News, XV, Feb., 1904, p. 73.
Shows that the form occurring in this country and heretofore referred to this European species is evidently distinct, and proposes the name Culex salinarius for our species.
Dipterafrom southern Texas, with descriptions of new species. ‘Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, Mar., 1904, pp. 31-35.
Gives a list of 8 previously described species collected by Mr. Charles Schaeffer at Brownsville, Tex., not before reported as occurring in the United States, and describes 9 new species from the same region and obtained by the same collector.
A new Ceratopogon from Brazil. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., x11, Mar., 1904, pp. 35, 36. Describes as new Ceratopogon guttatus.
New diptera from Central America. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, May 18, 1904, pp. 90-98. Describes 2 new genera and 18 new species.
New diptera from India and Australia. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, pp. 137-140. Describes 5 species as new.
COVILLE, FrepErick VERNON. used in Basketry. ] Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.), 1902 (1904), pp. 199-214, pls. Iv, v, VII-x. This paper is embraced in a larger work on Basketry by Prof. O. T. Mason. — Wokas: a primitive food of the Klamath Indians. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.), 1902 (1904), pp. 725-739, pls. I-XIII.
COVILLE, Freperick VERNON, and McDOUGAL, D. T. Desert botanical laboratory of the Carnegie Institution.
Pub. Carnegie Inst., No. 6, Wash., 1903, pp. 1-45, pls. I-XXvVIl1l.
CURRIE, Rotzta Parreson. An insect-
collecting trip to British Columbia. Proc, Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, No. 1, Jan., 1904, pp. 24-87.
[ Plants
An account of the expedition of Dr. H. G. |
Dyar, Mr. A. N. Caudell, and the author to the Kootenay District of British Columbia in the summer of 1903, with a general description of the region and of the particular localities Where collections were made. The paper is intended as a preface to subsequent detailed reports, by different specialists, upon the various groups of insects represented in the collections.
some Hemerobiidee from Arizona and California. Proc. Ent. Soe. Wash., v1, No. 2, Apr., 1904, pp. 79-81.
Treats of asmall collection of Hemerobiide made by Mr. H. S. Barber during the spring and summer of 1903. Twonew species are described, viz, Hemerobius bistrigatus, from Little River, Humboldt County, California, and H. pallescens, from Fieldbrook, Humboldt County, California.
Hemerobiide from the Kootenay
District of British Columbia. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, No. 2, Apr., 1904, pp. 81-90.
Lists twelve species, collected by Messrs. H. G. Dyar, A. N. Caudell, the author, and others during the summer of 1903. Of these, five are described as new, viz, Hemerobius dyari, H. kokanceanus, H. caudelli, H. glacialis, and H. kootenayensis. A key, for aid in determining the British Columbia species of Hemerobius, is ineluded.
DALL, Witiram Heatey. Synopsis of the family Astartidze, with a review of the American species.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvi, No. 1342, July 10, 1903, pp. 9383-951, plates LXII, LXIII.
A synopsis, on the lines of the synopsis of the Carditacea, reviewing the classification of the family and the nomenclature of the species found on the Atlantic and Pacifie coasts of America.
The following new species are named and figured: Astarte polaris, A. alaskensis, A. bennetti, A. soror, A. subaequilatera yar. whiteavesii, A. liogona and A. vernicosa, all from the boreal regions; Venericardia crassidens Broderip and Sowerby, is reinstated and figured for the first time. Some new species of Carditacea, ete., described in the review of that group are for the first time figured, as follows: Venericardia armilla, V. moniliata, V. gouldii, V. incisa, V. alaskana, and V. ventricosa. The following species are for the first time figured: Crania patagonica, Crassatellites brasiliensis, Crenella megas, Echinochama californica, Limopsis panamensis, Cetoconcha scapha, of Dall, Astarte compacta Carpenter, and Astarte esquimalti Baird.
In a footnote attention is called to the fact that the name Miodon Carpenter, preoccupied by Duméril for a fish, has been replaced by Miodontiscus Dall; and for Acus, a subgenus of Terebra, also preoccupied, the name Oxymeris Dall is now proposed.
The Grand Gulf formation. Science (new series), XVilI, No. 446, July 17, 1908, pp. 83-85. A discussion of the proper application of this name to a geological formation of the Southern States. ;

<<<Page: 190>>>

DALL, Wittram Heatey. Reports of | DALL, Wittram Heatey—Continued.
BS aS
the Princeton University expeditions to Patagonia, 1896-1899. I.—Narrative
anc Geography. Science (new series), XVIII, July 31, 1903, pp. 146, 147. A review of the volume cited, giving a summary of the results obtained by Mr. J. B. Hatcher in his explorations of Patagonia.
Two new mollusks from the west
coast of America. Nautilus, xvit, No. 4, Aug., 1903, pp. 37, 38. Sigaretus noyesti from Gorgona Islands, Gulf of Panama, and Tonicia arnheimi from Narborough Island, Galapagos, are described. The types.were donated by Mr. Arnheim to the U.S. National Museum.
A new species of Metzgeria. Nautilus, xvi, No. 5, Sept., 1903, pp. 51, 52. Metzgeria californica is described from the Santa Barbara Channel, California, the only other species known being Norwegian.
— Note on the family Septide.
Nautilus, xv1t, No. 5, Sept., 1908, pp. 55, 56. Discussion of the proper family name for the group formerly called Tritonide. |
A new genus of Trochide. Nautilus, Xvu, No. 6, Oct., 1903, pp. 61, 62. The genus Stylobates, founded on the abyssai species S. xneus Dall, is described from deep water in the Hawaiian group.
Contributions to the Tertiary fauna of Florida, with especial reference to the silex beds of Tampa and the pliocene beds of the Caloosahatchie River, including in many cases a complete revision of the generic groups treated of, and their American Tertiary species. Part VI, concluding the work.
Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci. Phila., 111, part vi, Oct., 1903, pp. i-xiv, 1219-1654, pl. XLVIII-LX, 4to.
This volume forms the concluding part of the monograph of the Floridian Tertiary begun in 1885 by the author. It comprises not only the description of species, the types of which are preserved in the U. S. National Museum, and of which three or four thousand are enumerated, and eight hundred and sixty new forms described, among mollusks and Brachiopods, but also a general discussion (pp. 1541 to 1620, with two tables showing numerically and graphically the relations of the fauna, which discussion was also issued as a Separate pamphlet, with title and covers) of the Tertiary geology of southeastern North America, with notes on each separately recognized formation, including lists of the species known from each horizon. In the course of the work a thorough discussion of
many of the families or genera and their no|
menclature is given, bringing the latter up to date as far as practicable; while the gen” eral classification of the bivalves is reviewed and amended. A geological map of Florida from the reconnaissance work of the author and others who have assisted in the work is included, while a!l the new and many doubtful or unfigured species have been illustrated.
The following groups, of the value of genera, subgenera, or sections, appear as new in the present part of the work: Allogramma, Aporema, Bowdenia, Chlidonophora, Climacia, Heteroclidus, Parmulina, Pompholigina, ProJischeria, Samarangia.
The following species are described as new and figured in the present part of the work: Anomalocardia bowdeniana, A. caloosana, A. chipolana, A. dupliniana, Arca millifila, Argyrotheca schucherti, Aspella senex, Astarte americand, A. calliglypta, A. floridana, A. obesa, A. opulentora, A. parma, A. vaginulata, A. wagneri, Callocardia gatunensis, C. multifilosa, C. sincera, Cardita catharia, C. guppyt, C. prestoni, C. tegea, C. vaughani, Carditopsis bernardi, Chama caloosana,. C. chipolana, C. draconis, C. lyelli, C. tampaénsis, Chione ballista, C. chipolana, C. craspedonia, C. erosa, C. glyptocyma,
* C. hendersonii, C. rhodia, C. spada, C. ulocyma,
C. victoria, C. xesta, Chiton burnsii, Clementia grayi, Codakia chipolana, C. erosa, C. magnoliana, C. pertenera, C. spinulosa, C. vendryesi, Columbella cosmia, -Coralliophaga elegantula, Corbis claibornensis, Crassatellites acutus, C. bowdenensis, C. chipolanus, C. cyclopterus, C. duplinianus, C. jamaicensis, C. meridionalis, C. tanicus, C. triangulatus, Crepidula xsop, Cuspidaria craspedonia, C. distira, Cyathodonta guadalupensis, C. spenceri, C. vicksburgiana, Cyclinella gatunensis, Cyrena dupliniana, Cythara metria, C. micromeris, Cytherea cxsarina, C. glyptoconcha, C. shepardi, C. tarquinia, C. ucuttana, C. willeoxi, Cytheriopsis alumensis, Dosinia chipolana, D. liogona, Echinochama antiquata, E. californica, Erycinella bernardi, Gafrarium altum, G. erosum, Gemma magna, G. trigona, G. virginiana, Glyphostoma scoptes, Goodallia americana, Lirodiscus wailesii, Lucina corpulenta, L. janus, L. santarosana, Lyonsia acuta, Macrocallista acuminata, Myrtea curta, M. furcata, M.limoniana, M. vermiculata, Neritina merida, Neverita coénsis, Oliva liodes, O. martensi, Olivella eutacta, Pandora arctica, P. dodona, P. lata, Phacoides actinus, P. calhoun. ensis, P. caloosaénsis, P. caloosana, P. chipolanus, P. domingensis, P. glenni, P. hamatus, P. heracleus, P. intensus, P. ocalanus, P. piluliformis, P. plesiophilus, P. podagrinus, P. prunus, P. quadricostatus, P. recurrens, P. sphxriolus, P. tithonis, P. twomeyi, P. waccamawensis, P. wacissanus P, whitfieldi, Pitaria caleanea, P. filosina, P. floridana, P. hillii, P. opisthogrammata, P. planivieta, Platidia marylandica, Pleurodesma floridana, Poromya jamaicensis, Pterorhylis fluviana, Rhynchonella holmesii, R. salpinx, Solenosteira vaughani, Spheniopsis americana, Subemarginula reti

<<<Page: 191>>>

DALL, Wittram Heatey—Continued. porosa, Teinostoma calliglyptum, Thracia harrisi, Tivelajamaicensis, Transennella caloosana, T. carolinensis, T. chipolana, T. santarosana, T. utica, Velorita floridana, Venericardia abbreviata, V. acaris, V. bulla, V. californica, V. carsonensis, V. greggiana, V. hadra, V. himerta, V. nasuta, V. precisa, V. scitula, V. simplex, V. tellia, V.tripla, V. vicksburgiana, V. willcoxensis, Venus alba, V. langdoni, V. nucea, V. quadrata, V. radiata, V. texana, Verticordia bowdenensis, V. cossmanni, V. jamaicensis.
—— Mrs. Henrietta H. T. Wolcott. Nautilus, Xvu1, No. 7, Nov., 1903, pp. 83, 84. Obituary notice of an excellent field naturalist, friend and generous contributor to the U.S. National Museum for many years.
— Diagnoses of new species of mollusks from the Santa Barbara channel,
California. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xvi, Dee. 31, 1903, pp. 171-176.
Actxon painei, Clathurella lowei, Mangilia Fanchere, Mitra lowei, M. dolorosa, Murex painei, Lunatia draconis, Macromphalina californica, Scala sawinx, and Ischnochiton biarcwatus are described asnew. The typesare in the U. S. National Museum.
Rectifications et questions de no-
menclature. Revue critique de Paléozoologie, V11, p. 180, Juillet, 1903. Reclamation for the name of Dimya, which had been rejected for insufficient reason.
Gundlachia and Ancylus. Nautilus, Xvi, No. 9, Jan., 1904, pp. 97, 98. A discussion as to the relations between the two genera.
Marcus Baker. Nat. Geograph. Mag., XV, No. 1, Jan., 1904, pp. 41-48, with portrait.
Obituary notice of Mr. Baker, who fora long time was associated with Dr. Dall in Alaska, and who, in the intervals of other work, found time to collect material, anthropological and biological, for the U. S. National Museum.
Notes on the nomenclature of the Pupacea and associated forms. Nautilus, XVi1, No. 10, Feb., 1904, pp. 114116. Corrections to current usage in the nomenclature of this group are pointed out.
On the geology of the Hawaiian Islands.
Am. Journ. Sci. (fourth series), xv11, No. 98, Feb., 1904, p. 177. Notes on the geology of Diamond Head, Oahu, based on material a portion of which isin the U.S. National Museum.
DALL, Wrtitam Heater. Charles Em-
erson Beecher. Science (new series), X1x, Mar., 18, 1904, pp. 453-455. Obituary notice of the late Dr. Beecher.
Neozoic invertebrate fossils, a report on collections made by the expe-
dition. Harriman Alaska Expedition, tv, Mar., 1904, pp. 99-122, pls. Ix, X.
A report on fossils collected by the expedition in Alaska: Ist, Eocene fossils from Alaska Peninsulaand vicinity, chiefly by Mr.Chas. Palache; 2d, Miocene fossils from the Shumagin Islands; 3d, Pleistocene fossils from DougJas Island. The types are in the U.S. National Museum. The Eocene species are the first Eocene fossils described from Alaska. The following are deseribed and figured as new: Cliona alaskana, Yoldia palachei, Y. emersonii, Y. breweri, Modiolus harrimant, M. alaskanus, Macrocallista gilberti, Spisula callisteeformis, Mesodesma_ alaskensis, Crepidula precursor, Margarites peninsularis; and from the Miocene: Papyridea harrimani, Saxidomus popofianus, Callocardia kincaidii, Dosinia alaskana, Protothaca grewingkii, Macoma grewingkii, Trochita alaskana, and Crepidula ungana.
— Reports of the Belgian Antarctic Ixpedition. Science (new series), XIX, No. 486, Apr. 22, 1904, pp. 656-659. Summary of the results obtained on the expedition on the Belgica in the antarctic regions.
A singular Eocene Turbinella. Nautilus, Xvit1, No. 1, May, 1904, pp. 9, 10The subgenus Psilocochlis is proposed for a new species Turbinella McCallie from the Eocene of Georgia. Thetypes arein the U.S. National Museum. 3
— Namatogzean or Epigeean. Science (new series), XIX, No. 494, June 17, 1904, p. 926.
Suggestions for a term to take the place of the phrase “land and fresh water’’ in ecological discussions of animal and plant distribution. :
DALL, Wiii1aAM Heatry,and BARTSCH,
Pau. Pyramidellide. Memoirs Cal. Acad. Sei. 111, 1903, pp. 269285, pl I-11, and Iv, fig. 14.
This is a contribution to the volume on the Paleontology of San Pedro by Ralph Arnold (q. v.). The specimens upon which it is based are in the collection of the U.S. National Museum. Jvara, subgenus of Odostomia, is described. The following new species are described and figured:

<<<Page: 192>>>

a were
re in
Sen rr
DALL, Witi1aM Heatey,and BARTSCH,
Paut—Continued.
Turbonilla stearnsii, T. pentalopha, T. auricoma, T.latefundia, T. lowei, and var. pedroana, T. arnoldi, T. adleri; Odostomia stearnsii, O. diegensis, O. grammatospira; and O. (Ivara) terricula, and a number of other old species are rediagnosed and figured.
Synopsis of the genera, subgenera, and sections of the family Pyramidel-
lide. :
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVul, Feb. 5, 1904, pp. 1-16.
A synopsis of the revised classification due to several years’ investigation into the character and history of the groups comprising this family.
' Under Pyramidella the following new names are proposed: Subg. Milda, subg. Voluspa, subg. Callolongcheus, subg. Ulfa, subg. Tropeas, subg. Vagna, sect. Cossmannica, subg. Orinella, subg. Sulcorinella, subg. Iphiana, subg. Syrnolina. Under Turbonilla come,
as new, Saccoina, Visma, Lancella, Asmunda, | Under Odostomia; |
and Baldra, subgenera. Vilia, Folinella, Besla, Egila, Haldra, Ividia, Evalina, Heida, and Lysacme, subgenera, and Stomega, new section. Pyramidella dodona Turbonilla archeri, Odostomia pilsbryi, and O. americana are species described as new.
Notes on the genus Ampullaria. Journ. Conchology, XI, No. 2, Feb., 1904, pp. 50-55.
History of the names applied to this shell and a reyision of the classification of the whole group to which it belongs. The sectional name Limnopomus is proposed for Ampullaria columellaris Gould, the type of which is in the National Museum.
A new species.of Periploma from California. Nautilus, Xvi, 122, 128. Periploma sulcata from San Pedro is described and the sectional name Halistrepta proposed for it.
DAVENPORT, CHartes B. Report on the fresh-water bryozoa of the United
States. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XX vil, No. 1355, Jan. 22, 1904, pp. 211-221, pl. vr.
Based chiefly on material collected in 1898 and 1899 by the laboratory of the U.S. Fish Commission at Put-in-Bay, Ohio. The author gives a synoptic key to species, a chapter on ecology and one on methods of preserving, followed by a list of all species found in the United States.
Part of the material is in the U. S. National Museum.
No. 11, Mar., 1904, pp.
| DYAR, Harrison G.
| | | | |
—— A lepidopteron
Lepidoptera in British Columbia.
Can. Ent., XXXV, 1908, p. 175.
The life history of Mamestra landabilis, Guin.
Can. Ent., XXXV, 1903, pp. 278, 274.
Book Notice: Smith’s check list of the Lepidoptera of Boreal America.
Can. Ent., XXXV, 1903, pp. 321, 322.
Life histories of North American Geometride. XLII.
Psyche, X, 19038, pp. 168, 169.
Life histories of the North American Geometridz. XLITI-LII.
Psyche, X, 1903, pp. 190-200. &
The Lepidoptera of the Kootenay District of British Columbia.
Proce Us Se Nats MIs: XsxXVIl,. NO. 1876;
June 7, 1904, pp. 779-938.
New Noctuidz from British Columbia.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, 1904, pp. 29-33.
Teniocampa communis.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, 1904, p. 60.
Correction of name.
Can. Ent., XXXVI, 1904, p. 102.
New North American species of Lepidoptera and a new Limacodid larva.
Journ, N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 39-44.
New Lepidoptera from the United States.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soe., X11, 1904, pp. 105— 108. :
Life histories of North American Geometride. LIII.
Psyche, Xt, 1904, p. 29.
Life histories of North American Geometride. LIV.
Psyche, Xi, 1904, p. 64.
Description of the larva of Ethuria zelleriella Chambers.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 3.
Description of the larva of Litodonta hydromeli Harvey.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 3.
Note on the distribution of the red forms of Diacrisia.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 18. parasitic upon Fulgoridae in Japan.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 19. New species, Epipyrops nawai.

<<<Page: 193>>>

570)
DYAR, Harrison G. Halesidota maculata Harris and its varieties. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 19.— The larvee of the mosquitoes Megarhinus retilus Coquillett and M. portori-
censis Roeder. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., vi, 1904, p. 20.
Notes on the mosquitoes of British
Columbia. Proc. Ent. Soe. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 27.
A new variety of the Noctuid
Exyra semicrocea Guenée (Exyra semi-
crocea, variety hubbardiana, n. var.). Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, pp. 59, 60. A new genus and species of Tor-
tricide.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 60.
Additions to the list of North
American Lepidoptera, No. 1. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, pp. 62-65.
Note on the larva of an Hawaiian
Pyralid (Hmiodes accepta Butler). Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 65.
Note on the larva of Therina som-
isiaria Hulst. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 76.
Note on the larva of Melanchroia geometroides Walker. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., v1, 1904, p. 77.
Note on the genus Leusophobetron Dyar. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 77.
Additions to the list of North American Lepidoptera, No. 2. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., V1, 1904, p. 103.
New North American species of Scoparia Haworth. Ent. News, Xv, 1904, p. 71.
Life history of Culex cantans Meigen.
«Journ. N. ¥. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 36-38.
Life history of Culex varipalpus. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 90-92.
DYAR, Harrison G., and CAUDELL,
ANDREW N. The types of genera. Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., X11, 1904, pp. 120-122. A discussion of the first species as the type of a genus.
WIGENMANN, Cart H. New genera of South American fresh-water fishes and new names tor some old genera.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 1, 2, Dee. 9, 1908, pp. 144-148.
FEWKES, J. Watrer. Precolumbian
West Indian amulets. Am. Anthropologist (new series), v, No. 4 Oct.-Dec., 1903, pp. 679-691, pl. LII-LIy.
A paper devoted to the description and illustration of smallimages carved from stone, shell,and bone, and perforated forsuspension from the person. The author’s notes are derived from a study of the subject on the spot.
Preliminary report on an archeological trip to the West Indies. Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, pts. 1, 2, Dec. 9, 1903, pp. 112-133, pls. XX XIX-XLVIII.
The archeological results of a former visit to Porto Rico were so promising that in November Doctor Fewkes returned to the island and continued his survey until the close of May, 1903. The present paper gives the results of this winter’s exploration.
| FISHER, Watrer K. Birds of Laysan
and the Leeward Islands, Hawaiian group. Bull. U. 8. Fish Com. for 1903, pp. 1-39 pls. 1-10, 4 text figs., 1 diagram.
An excellent account of the birds (27 species) met with on these islands during the cruise of the Albatross in 1902. The plates accompanying the paper illustrate many interesting phases of bird-life as seen on Laysan.
FLINT, James M. Chinese medicine. Smithsonian Misc. Colis., XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 1, 2, Jan. 7, 1904, pp. 180-182.
Doctor Flint in this paper traces the origin
of Chinese medicine to the year 2700 B. C.,
under the Emperor Shen-nung. The theories
of disease and the method of treatment are set forth.
FOWLER, Henry W. JORDAN. )
GILBERT, Cuartes H., and STARKS, Epwin Cuapin. Memoirs | of the | California Academy of Sciences | Volume IV | The Fishes of Panama Bay | By | Charles H. Gilbert and Edwin C. Starks | Issued February 6, 1904 | San Francisco | Published by the Acad-
emy | 1904. | 4to, pp. 1-304, pls. I-XxX XIII.
GILL, THropere. Note on
genera named Macrodon. Proc. U. S. Nat..Mus., Xxvi, No. 1849, July 6, 1903, pp. 1015, 1016.
The name Macrodon can not be used for the Trahiras of the South American rivers, as has been done since 1842, inasmuch asit had been taken in 1822 by H. R. Schinz for the genus called Ancylodon by Cuvier. Macrodon Schinz must be adoptedin place of Ancylodon Cuvier (not Iliger 1811), and a new name (Hoplias) is proposed as a substitute for the fish genus of Miiller.
(See under D.S§.
the fish

<<<Page: 194>>>

GILL, THEopoRE.
On the relations of the fishes of the family Lamprididée or
Opahs. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, No. 1340, July 7, 1903, pp. 915-924, figs. 1-3.
The genus Lampris had been associated with various fishes, mostly Scombroidean, but in 19038 Boulenger, having homologized some of the bones of the shoulder girdle in a peculiar way, considered it as the representative of an independent group (Selenichthyes) of a new suborder (Catosteomi) which further included the Hemibranchii and Lophobranchii. The reasons given for this classification are traversed, the bones called coracoid and infraclavicle being homologized with the fourth actinost and hypocoracoid, and the existence of an independent infraclavicle is denied. There is consequently no reason for the association of Lampris with the Hemibranechii and Lophobranchii. The affinities are rather with the Scombroideans, as formerly claimed, but the family is isolated as the representative of an independent superfamily—Lampridoidea. A diagnosis of the superfamily and synonyms of the family name are added.
On some neglected genera of fishes. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XxXvi, No. 1344, July 11, 1903, pp. 959-962.
An analysis of an article published in 1790 by H. F. Linck (Versuch einer Eintheilung der Fische nach den Zihnen) is given, and it is shown that “ of the nine new generic names proposed by Linck, three are well entitled to adoption from him—WMustelus, Pristis, and Mola. The others do not seem to be presented in suchform as to demand recognition.”
On some fish genera of the first edition of Cuvier’s Régne Animal and
Oken’s Names. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi, No. 1346, July 11, 1908, pp. 965-967.
It is remarked that ‘‘in the first edition of the Régne Animal (1817) Cuvier introduced many new genera or subgenera, but most of them were named only in French guise. Consequently many naturalists have refused to accept them.”’ In an entirely overlooked summary, also published in 1817, L. Oken gave Latin or Latinized names and many (18) date from his commentary.
——— O-words in the ‘‘New English Dictionary.” ( Notes and Queries (9), x11, Aug. 29, 1903, pp. 165, 166.
Comments on the section On-Out of the dictionary, suggesting that quotations for words “should be brought up more nearly to date,” some in daily use being ‘‘ illustrated by quotations twenty to forty or more years behind time.’”’ A numbersuchare named. Oolakan, Ophidia, Orator, Orbitolite, Ornithodelphia, and Ortolan, words imperfectly treated in
GILL, THroporE—Continued.
the dictionary, are elucidated. It issuggested that ‘‘surely the word (ornithology) must have been used before .”’ The fishes of the African family Kneriide. Science (new series), Xvi1I, No. 454, Sept. 11, 1903, pp. 338, 339.
Attention is called to the agreement in many respects between the descriptions of two African genera—Aneria, described by Steindachner in 1866, and Cromeria, described by Boulenger in 1901. The discrepancies, which are marked, it is suggested, may perhaps be due to age, and possibly Cromeria (known only from specimens about thirty millimeters long) may be the young of Aneria. The affinity of the family is doubtful, and it appears to be entitled to distinction as a peculiar superfamily, Kneriordea. It may be referred to the group Haplomi or perhaps the Iniomi.
— A little-known Devil-fish.
Science (new series), Xvi1I, No, 458, Oct. 9, 1903, p. 478.
Attention is directed to ‘‘ Description of a new Ceratopterine Eagle-ray from Jamaica,” published by Richard Hill in 1802, and the suggestion is made that the species ( Cephaloptera massenoidea) is the same as the Ceratobatis robertsii described by Boulenger in 1897.
American fishes | A popular treatise | upon the | game and food fishes of North | America | with especial reference to habits and | methods of capture | By | G. Brown Goode, Ph. D., LL. D. | With numerous illustrations, including a series | of new color plates. | Boston | Dana Estes
& Company | Publishers | 8vO., pp. I-LXVIIT, 1-562, 6 colored pls. and portrait. (Published Oct. 16, 1903.)
O-words in the ‘‘New English Dictionary.’’  Notes and Queries (9), X11 Oet. 24, 1903, pp. 330, 331.
An answer to Doctor Murray’s defense of the dictionary (0. ¢., 209, 210) and claim that it “does indeed give the earliest quotation (known to us at the time) for every word and sense,” ete., and that when the writer “can cite an earlier instance of the word ornithology than can be given in the ‘ dictionary,’ it will be time to write about it.”
Improper usage of the word Oology is shown, and earlier instances of the use of the words Ophidia (1802), Ophidian, a. (1818), Ophidian, n. (1813), and Ophiology (1817) are adduced. As

<<<Page: 195>>>

GILL, THropore—Continued. examples of words ‘‘erroneously defined and illustrations do not illustrate,” Ophidium and Ophidioid are noted and Ophidioid redefined.
“Bulachon”’ and its variants. Notes and Queries (9), x11, Dec. 5, 1903, pp. 444, 445.
In answer to a request for information, the variants of the name of the Candle-fish of Washington and British Columbia (Thaleichthys pacificus) are enumerated and in some instancescommented on. ‘In chronological sequence of publication they are Ulken (Gass, 1807), Olthen (Lewis and Clark, 1814), Uthlecan (Irving, 1836), Oulachan (Richardson, 1836), Eulachon (Lord, 1866), Oulacon (Seammon, 1874), Hoolakin (J. and G., 1881), Oolachan (Nature, 1881), Oolackan (Baillie-Grohman, 1886), Oulachon (Century Dict., 1890), Oolakan (N. E. D. 1903).
A remarkable genus of fishes—the
Umbras. Smithsonian Mise. Colls. XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 3, 4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 295-305, with 5 figs.
A summary is given of (1) the bibliographical history of the genus, followed by (2) a notice of its place in the system; (3) an account of the habits of the species is the most prominent feature; (4) the distinctive characters of the three species, and (5) a notice of the desiderata to complete the biographies.
The Encyclopedia Americana on Ichthyology. Science (new series), XIX, No. 486, Apr. 22, 1904, pp. 675, 676.
Attention is called to the careless editorial handling of an article on ‘‘Ichthyology”’ by Dr. D. S. Jordan, and the misnaming of many (twelve) figures. The act is declared to be a wrong to the public as well as author of the article; the latter should be relieved of responsibility for the errors noted.
Vernacular names of animals.
Am. Naturalist (XXxvul1), No. 447, March, 1904 (published May 8, 1904), pp. 241, 242.
‘* Horses’? not horses. : Science (new series), XIX, No. 488, May 6, 1904, pp. 737, 738.
A notice of a number of errors in a little book entitled ‘‘ The Tree Dwellers,” in which the assumption is made that the ancestors of the horses had five toes and lived partly in trees. The error of such an assumption is pointed out and protest is made against the use of the word horse for the ancient forms, which really belonged to a different family from the recent horses. It should certainly
| GILL, TaHroporr—Continued.
not be used for the eocene many toed form named Hyracotherium, which is differentiated ‘‘as the representative of a peculiar family— the Hyracotheriids.’’ Objection is also made “to the assumption that the early representatives of the equine phylum were striped like azebra, * * * The evidence, such as itis, is against the assumption.”
Non-education of the young by
parents. Science (new series), X1x, No. 492, June 3, 1904, pp. 861, 862.
In connection with pending discussions, attention is'called to the ‘‘annual fishes”’ of the family of Gobies known as Aphya pellucidaand Crystallogabiusnilssonii. The parents die when the breeding season is over, and consequently the young have no care takers or exemplars. An analogous instance is furnished by the salmons of the genus Oncorhynchus, the parents dying soon after their procreative duties have been discharged. Asall the parents die, ‘‘ the young can not have the benefit of parental instruction or of learning through association with their elders.”’
The name mammal and the idea
expressed. Rep. Smithsonian Inst., 1903 (1904), pp. 587-044.
The main portion of ‘‘ The story of a name— mammals,’’ published by the author in the Popular Science Monthly for September, 1902, are embodied in the present article, but much additional matter and literary illustrations are intercalated and added.
GIRTY, Greorce H. Triticites, a new genus of Carboniferous foraminifers. Am. Journ. Sci., Xvi, Mar., 1904, pp. 234240, text figures.
Calls attention to the American so-called Fusulina, that they have not the interior structure of the Russian genus, and therefore proposes Triticites for the American form passing as Fusulina cylindrica. Thisshould be called Triticites secalicus Say.
New molluscan genera from the
Carboniferous. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVU, June 1, 1904, pp. 721-786, pls. 45-47. This paper defines the new genera Limipecten, Plewrophorella, and Clavulites. Also the new species. L. tecanus, L. texanus grandicostatus, P. papillosa, and C. howardensis. The genus Orthotetes Fischer de Waldheim proyes to be the same structurally as Waagen’s later proposed Derbya, and the latter is, therefore, a synonym. For Waagen’s redefinition and misinterpretation of Orthothetes, the present author proposes the new name Schuchertella, using as his genotype Streptorhynchus lens White.
No. 1372,

<<<Page: 196>>>

GRABAU, Amapeus W.
Fusus and its allies. Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLIv, 1904, pp. 1-192, pls. I-xviil, and text figs.
As the title indicates, this important work treats of the phylogeny of Fusuws and its allies. New genera described: Falsifusus, Fulgurofusus, Heilprinia, Clavellofusus, Rhopalithes, and Cosmolithes. Of new species and new varieties, many are described.
HOLMES, Wiuuiam H. Fossil human remains found near Lansing, Kansas.“ Am. Anthropologist (new series), Iv, No.4, Oct.-Dec., 1902, pp. 743-752, 2 pls., 2 text
figs.
Phylogeny of
Traces of aboriginal operations in an iron mine near Leslie, Missouri.
Am. Anthropologist (new series), Vv, No. 3, July-Sept., 1903, pp. 503-507, 1 pl., 2 text figs.
Shell ornaments from Kentucky
and Mexico.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 1, 2, Dee. 9, 1908, pp. 97-99, pls. XXIX, XXX, 1 text fig.
Report on the Department of
Anthropology for the year 1900-1901.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1901 (1903), pp. 51-61.
Flint implements and fossil remains from a sulphur spring at Afton, Indian Territory.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1901 (1903), pp. 233-252, pls. 1-26.
Classification and arrangement of the exhibits of an anthropological museum.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1901 (1903), pp. 253-278, pl. 1.
Report on the Department of An-
thropology for the year 1901-1902.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1902 (1903), pp. 53-58.
——— Aboriginal pottery of the Eastern United States.
20th Ann. Rep. Bureau Am. Ethnology, 1898-99 (1903), pp. 1-201, 177 pls., 79 text figs.
(See also under FrREpERICK W. TRUE. )
HOUGH, Watrter. Archeological field work in northeastern Arizona. The
Museum-Gates Expedition of 1901. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1901 (1903), pp. 279-358, pls. 1-101.
HOUGH, Watrer—Continued.
A report on the extensive excavation made in the ancient pueblo ruins of northeastern Arizona during the summer of 1901, with descriptions and discussion of the artefacts collected.
HOWARD, Letanp O. The shade trees of Washington. The Capital, Oct. 10, 1903, pp. 14, 15. trait.
An aecount of Washington shade trees and their management, with suggested improvements, mainly from the standpoint of insect damage
Por-
Yellow fever and mosquitoes.
Century Magazine, LXvI, No. 6, Oct., 1903, pp. 851-857, 10 figs., 1 map. Hydrocyanie acid
household insects.
Public Health Reports, Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service, Xvitt, No. 46, Washington, Nov. 13, 1903, pp. 1977-1982.
gas against
The Mexican cotton boll weevil. Science (new series), xv1i1, No. 465, Nov. 27, 1903, p. 693. Concerning the geographic distribution of the yellow-fever mosquito. Public Health Reports, Public Health «nd Marine-Hospital Service, xvit1, No. 46, Nov., 1903, pp. 1-7, 1 map. — The Moth Book. Review of W. J. Holland’s work of this title. Science (new series), XIX, No. 474, Jan 29, 1904, pp. 188, 189.
Sending insects through the mails.
Ent. News, XV, No. 1, Jan., 1904, pp. 25, 26.
An account of a revision of the U. S. Postal Regulations,
The Mexican cotton boll weevil. Am. Review of Reviews, xx1x, No. 169, Feb. 1, 1904, pp. 188-191, 4 figs.
The Mexican cotton boll weevil. Youths’ Companion, Feb. 4, 1904, pp. 55, 56, 9 figs.
A monograph of the Culicide of the world. <A review of Volume III of F. V. Theobald’s work of this title.
Science (new series), XIx, No. 478, Feb. 26, 1904, pp. 333, 334.
— Monograph of the |
British Tyroglyphidee, by A. D. Michael. Am. Journ. Sci., XVII, May, 1904, pp. 407, 408.
The United States Department of |
Agriculture and Silk Culture.
Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agric., 1903, pp. 137|
148, 5 plates. (Author’s extras published June 9, 1904.)
HRDLICKA, Axes. Anomalous articu-
lation and fusion of the atlas with the
occipital bone. Abstract. Washington Medical Annals, 111, No. 1, Mar., 1904, pp. .
Further instances of parietal divi|
sion. Am. Naturalist, XXXVI, No. 448, Apr., 1904, pp. 301-809, 4 figs.
Further instances of molar diyision. Am. Naturalist, XXXvilI, No. 449, May, 1904, pp. 361-366, 5 figs.
HYATT, ALPHEuvSs. the Cretaceous. Monograph U. S. Geol. Surv., XLiv, 1908, pp. 1-851, pls. 1-47.
This important monograph treats of a large group of ammonites, the Pseudoceratites, from all parts of the world. Quite a number of the species described and figured are now in the U.S. National Museum collection.
JENINGS, Foster H. Korean head-
dresses in the National Museum. Smithsonian Misc .Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 1, 2, Jan. 7, 1904, pp. 149-167, figs. 3-28.
This young author, whose premature death is greatly deplored, finding that the hat is connected with rank and custom to a large extent in Korea, brought together in a series of drawings the yarious types of headgear, showing their significance and varieties.
JORDAN, Davin Starr, and FOWLER,
Henry W. A review of the Cyprinoid
fishes of Japan. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXV1, No. 1334, July 6, 1903, pp. 811-862, figs. 1-8.
Pseudoceratites of
JORDAN, Davin Starz, and FOWLER, Henry W. A review of the Siluroid fishes or catfishes of Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXV1, No, 1338, July 7, 1903, pp. 897-911, figs. 1, 2.
JORDAN, DavinS., and SNYDER, Joun O. On the species of White Chimera from Japan.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXvi1, No. 1356, Jan. 23, 1904, pp. 223-226, figs. 1, 2. On a collection of fishes made by Mr. Alan Owston in the deep waters of Japan. Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 3,4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 230-240. Notes on collections of fishes from: Oahu Island and Laysan Island, Hawaii, with descriptions of four new species. sProcy U. SusiNGt. Mss, XV UN On ul onns June 2, 1904, pp. 939-948.
JORDAN, Davin S., and STARKS, Epwin CHAPIN. A review of the fishes of Japan belonging to the family of Hexagrammidee.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xxvi, No. 1348, July 15, 1903, pp. 1003, 1013, figs. 1-3. A review of the Scorpznoid fishes of Japan. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,-xxvit, No. 1351, Jan. 22, 1904, pp. 91-175, pls. 1, 2, text figs. 1-21. A review of the Cottidee or Sculpins found in the waters of Japan. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXvul, No. 1358, Jan. 28, 1904, pp. 231-335, figs. 1-43. A review of the Japanese fishes of the family of Agonide. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xXvi1, No. 1365, Feb. 23, 1904, pp. 575-599, figs. 1-13. Description of a new Cyprinoid fish, Hemibarbus joiteni, from the Pei Ho, Tientsin, China. Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 3, 4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 241, 242. Schmidtina, a genus of Japanese
sculpins. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxXvul, No. 13881, June 27, 1904, p. 961.
LUCAS, Freperic A. A new batrachian and a new reptile from the Trias
of Arizona. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvit, No. 1853, Jan. 22, 1904, pp. 193-195, pls. 3, 4. Describes Metoposaurus fraasi, & new species of labyrinthodont, and Placerias hesternus, & new genus and speeies of large eotylosaurian reptiles.-

<<<Page: 197>>>

LUCAS, Freprertc A. The Dinosaur
Trachodon annectens. Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quay. issue, I, pts. 3, 4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 317-320, pls. LXXII-LX XIII, figs. 40-43. A somewhat popular account of this dino-
saur, its relationships and habits, and of the |
skeleton on exhibition in the U. S. National Museum. LYON, Marcus Warp, Jr. Classification of the hares and their allies.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls. XLV, Quar. issue, T, pts. 8, 4, June 15; 1904, pp. 321-447, pls. LXXIV-C.
A revision of the genera and subgenera of |
the families Leporide and Ochotonide, based
-on their osteological and dental characters. |
New genera; Pronolagus (p. 416) and Pentalagus (p. 428); new subgenera, Pecilolagus (p. 395), new subgenus of Lepus, and Conothoa (p. 488), new subgenus of Ochotona.
McDOUGAL, D. T. (See under Frederick Vernon Coville. )
McGREGOR, RicHarp C. Birds from Benguet province, Luzon, and from the islands of Lubang, Mindoro, Cuyo, and
Cagayancillo. Bull. Philippine Museum, No. 3, Jan. 30, 1904, pp. 1-16.
Notes on named islands for the Philippine Museum. The notes are arranged under the following headings: Introductory note; Zoographical
notes; Undescribed plumages and notes on | the rarer species; New locaties for known |
species; and species from Irisan, Benguet Province, Luzon.
The birds of Calayan and Fuga, Babuyan group. Bull. Philippine Museum, No. 4, May 15, 1904, pp. 1-34, pls. 1-5.
An annotated list of the species collected on the islands of Calayan and Fuga for the Philippine Museum. The following are described as new: Turnix worcesteri (p. 8), Macropygia phea (p. 9), Otus cuyensis (p.17), Otus calayensis (p. 18), Eudynamis frater (p. 21), Zosterops flavissima (p.26), and Hyloterpe fallax (p. 27). _—
MARSHALL, Witt1am B. James Smithson. Am. Journ. Pharmacy, LXXvI, No. 4, Apr., 1904, pp. 162-171.
A sketch of the life of the founder of the
Smithsonian Institution.
MASON, Orts Turron. Aboriginal American Basketry: Studies in a textile art
without machinery. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1902 (1904), pp. 171-548, pls. 1-248.
birds collected on the aboye|
sigs:
MASON, Oris Turron—Continued.
The design of this work is to study out the processes of weaving and other forms of textile work done by hand in America by the aboriginal tribes. These processes antedate machinery, and some of the primitive devices connected with the Indian handwork led up to the first looms. The materials for basket work are enumerated, the processes of manufacture described and illustrated, and the subject of ornamentation, in form and design, discussed. Symbolism is shown to have followed the other arts in motives, but to have taken on special details by reason of technic. The many uses of basketry occupy a large part of the work, which closes with a discussion of the subject in its ethnic relationship.
MAXON, Witiiam R. Notes on the birds of Madison County, New York, with especial reference to Embody’s recent list.
Auk, Xx, No. 3, July, 1903, pp. 262-266. Notes on 36 species, intended to supplement the ‘Birds of Madison County, New York,’”’ by G. C. Embody. A fern new to the United States. Torreya, 111, Dee. 22, 1903, pp. 184, 185. Records the occurrence of Aspleniwm auritum Sw. in Florida.
Two new ferns of the genus Poly-
podium, from Jamaica.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvtI, No. 1374, May 21, 1904, pp. 741-744.
P. rigens and P. aromaticum are described as new.
A new fern, Goniophlebium pringlei,
from Mexico.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxXviI, No. 1879, June 27, 1904, pp. 953-954, pl. 48, 1 text fig.
MAYNARD, Gerorcrt C. Notes on the manufacture of small arms for the United States Army in Government arsenals and by private makers.
Sporting Goods Dealer, St. Louis, Mo., Jan., 1904, 1x, No. 4, pp. 36-39.
MERRILL, Grorce P. On the glacial
pothole in the National Museum. Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue I, pts. 1 and 2, Dec% 9, 1903, pp. 100-103, ple
The above describes briefly the mode of occurrence and the method of extraction of a large glacial pothole found at Georgetown, Maine, and obtained in 1893 for the U. S.
National Museum.
Report on the Department of Geol-
ogy for the year 1900-1901. Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1901 (1903), pp 81-91.

<<<Page: 198>>>

MERRILL, Grorcre P. Report on the | Department of Geology for the year 1901-1902. |
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.), | *. 1902 (1903), pp. 77-84. |
— The | Nonmetallic minerals. | | Their occurrenceand uses | By | George | P. Merrill, | Head Curator of Geology | in the U. $. National Museum, and | Professor of Geology in the Corcoran | Scientific School of Columbian University, | Washington, D. C., Author of ‘Stones for Building and Decoration,”’ | ‘‘Rocks, Rock-weathering, and Soils,’’ etc. | First edition | First thousand | New York: | John Wiley & Sons. | London: Chapman & Hall,
Limited. | 1904. 8vo., pp. I-XI, 1-414, pls. I-xxx, text figs. 1-28.
This work, as its title suggests, is practically a revised edition of the handbook and eatalogue of the nonmetallic minerals, published by the National Museum.
(See also under FrepericK W. TRUE. )
MILLER, Gerrit S., Jr. A new Nataline bat from the Bahamas.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1, Sept. 30, 1903, pp. 119, 120. Chilonatalus tumidifrons, p. 119.
Seventy new Malayan mammals. Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. isssue I, pts. 1, 2, Nov. 6, 1903, pp. 1-73, pls. I-x1x. Tragulus batuanus (p. 2), Tragulus russulus (p. 8), Ratufa insignis (p. 4), Ratufa conspicua (p. 5), Ratufa bale (p.6), Ratufa masz (p.7), Ratufa piniensis (p. 8), Sciurus bilimitatus (p.8), Sciurus pemangilensis (p.9), Seiwriusaoris (p. 10), Sciurus peninsularis (p. 10), Seiurus pannovianus (p. 11), Setwrus ictericus (p. 12), Sciurusatratus (p. 13), Seturus piniensis (p.14), Sciurus bale (p.14), Seiwrus pwmilus (p. 15), Sciurus lancavensis (p. 16), Sciurus adangensis (p. 17), Sciurus sullivanus (p. 17), Seciurus domelicus (p. 18), Sciwrus bentincanus (p. 19), Sciurus matthxus(p. 19), Sciurus lucas (p. 20), Sciurus casensis (p. 20), Seiwrus altinsularis (p. 21), Sciurus rubeculus (p. 22), Funambulus obscurus (p. 23), Funambulus rostratus (p. 24), Funambulus peninsule (p. 25), Sciuwropterus merens (p. 26), Petaurista batuana (p. 27), Mus stridens (p. 28), Mus mattheus (p. 29), Mus stridulus (p. 29), Mus lucas (p. 30), Mus soccatus (p. 30), Mus masz (p. 82), Mus bale (p. 33), Mus lugens (p. 83), Mus julianus (p. 34), Mus gilbiventer, (p. 35), Mus luteolus (p. 36), Mus umbridorsum (p. 87), Mus casensis (p. 88), Mus domelicus (p. 89), Mus pagensis (p. 39), Chirop-
odomys niadis (p. 40), Atherwra zygomatica
MILLER, Gerrir S., Jr.—Continued. (p. 42), Hemigale minor (p. 43), Paradoxurus lignicolor (p.44), Galeopithecus pumilus (p. 46), Galeopithecus aoris (p.47), Galeopithecus gracilis (p. 49), Galeopithecus natunx (p. 50), Galeopithecus saturatus (p.51), Galeopithecustuancus (p. 53), Tupaiacastanea (p.54), Tupaiapulonis (p. 56), Tupaiatephrura (p.57), Tupaia chrysogaster (p.58), Tupaia cervicalis (p. 59), Pteropus geminorum (p. 60), Macacus pagensis (p. 61), Macacus pheura (p. 63), Presbytes rhionis (p. 64), Presbytes batuanus (p. 65), Simias gen. nov. (p. 66), Simias concolor (p. 67), Symphalangus klossii (p. 70).
A new hare from Greece. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Nov. 12, 1903, pp. 145, 146. Lepus parnassius (p. 145).
A new squirrel from Lower Siam. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Noy. 12, 1903, pp. 147, 148. Sciurus novemlineatus (p. 147).
Descriptions of two new Mole Rats. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1, Noy. 30, 1903, pp. 161-164. . Spalar dolbrogex (p. 161); Spalar berytensis (p. 162).
A second specimen of Huderma
maculatum. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Novy. 30, 1903, pp. 165, 166, fig. 1. Records the second specimen of this bat, from Mesilla Park, New Mexico, September, 1903.
— Notes on the bats collected by William Palmer in Cuba. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mis., xxvii, No. 1159, Jan. 238, 1904, pp. 337-348, Plate IX. An annotated list of fifteen species.
The species of Geum occurring
near Washington. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XViI, Apr. 9, 1904, pp. 191, 192.
MILLER, Gerrir §., Jr., and REHN, James A.G. Systematic results of the study of North American land mammals during the years of 1901 and 1902.
Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. His., XxXx1, Aug. 27, 1903, pp. 61-145. List of additions and alterations made during the two preceding years.
MOORE, Crarence B. The so-called
“‘hoe-shaped implement.”’ Am. Anthropologist (new series), v, No. 3, July-Sept., 1903, pp. 498-502, 6 text figs. A diseussion of an aboriginal hoe-shaped implement found in the United States, in which a-ceremonial adz from Cook Islands, belonging to the U. S. National Museum, is
figured and described.

<<<Page: 199>>>

BIBLIOGRAPHY. Lee
NEEDHAM, James G. New Dragon-fly nymphs in the United States National Museum. .
‘Procy Gos. Nat. Mus, xxvil, No. 1371, May 20, 1904, pp. 685-720, text figs. 1-11; pls. XXXVIII-XLIY.
NELSON, E. W. Descriptions of new |
birds from southern Mexico. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv1, Nov. 30, 1903, pp. 151-159.
New birds are described as follows: Geo|
trygon albifacies rubida (p. 151), Daetylorty« thoracicus sharpet (p. 152), Syrniwm occidentale lucidum (p. 152), Xiphocolaptes emigrans omultemensis (p. 158), Cyanolyca mirabilis (p. 154), Aphelocoma guerrerensis (p. 154), Vireolanius melitophrys goldmant (p. 155), Geothlypis chapalensis (p. 156), Thryophilus sinaloa russeus (p. 157), Troglodytes brunneicollis nitidus (p. 158), Henicorhina leucophrys festiva (p. 158), Hemiura leucogastra musica (p. 159), and Sialia mexicana australis (p. 159).
A revision of the North American
mainland species of Myiarchus. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv1I, Mar. 10,1904, pp. 21-50, fig. 1.
Two subgenera (Myiarchus and Onychopterus) with nineteen species and subspecies are here recognized. All are minutely described, and three subspecies are named for the first time, viz: Myiarchus lawrencei bangsi (p. 45), m. l. querulus (p. 47), and m. 1. tresmarizx (p. 49).
NORTON, C. A. Q. The lights and lamps of early New England.
Connecticut Magazine. vi11, 1903. No.1, pp.
95-100, 5 figs.: No. 2, pp. 248-255, 6 figs.
A series of articles appearing at intervals
since Feb.-Mar., 1903, based on the collections
of the U. S. National Museum and the private collections of Doctor Norton.
NUTTING, CHarLesCLEVELAND. Smithsonian Institution. | United States National Museum.'—|Special Bulletin.{— American Hydroids.|—/|Part II. | The Sertularidee, | with forty-one plates. | By | Charles Cleveland Nutting, | Professor of Zoology, University of lowa.'|— Washington: | Government Printing Office. | 1904.
Special Bulletin, U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 4 (Part II), June 24, 1904, 4 to pp. 1-325, pls. 1-41, text figs. 1-139.
A continuation of the monograph of American hydroids, the first part of which, the Plumularide, appeared in 1900. Under the heading ‘‘ Morphology,” the Trophosome,
Gonosome, Gonangium, and the Development of the Sertularide are separately treated. Un-
NAT mus 1904——12
NUTTING, CHarLEs CLEVELAND—Con.
der the Systematic Discussion keys are given to the genera and species. Cne hundred and thirty-one species representing 10 genera are described; many species are new.
OBERHOLSER, Harry C. The North American forms of Astragalinus psaltria (Say ).
Proc. Biol. Soe. Wash., Xvi, Sept. 30, 1903, pp. 113-116.
Two forms only of this species are recognized from North America, true A. psaltria and A. p. hesperophilus, the latter new. A. p. arizone and A. p. mexicana are shown to be equivalent to true A. psaltria.
Description of a new Telmatodytes. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv1, Nov. 12, 1903, pp. 149, 150.
Telmatodytes palustris thryophilus (p. 149), is described as new, from the coast region of Louisiana and eastern Texas.
A revision of the American Great Horned Owls. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XXviI, No. 1352, Jan. 22,1904, pp. 177-192.
A study of over 200 specimens of Asio ( Bubo of recent authors), from various parts of America, has enabled the author to recognize sixteen forms, all subspecies of A. magellanicus (Gmelin). The following are described as new: Asio magellanicus mesembrinus (p. 179), A. m. melancerus (p. 180), A. m. tcelus (p. 185), A. m. lagophonus (p. 185), A. m. heterocnemis (p. 187), and A. malgistus (p. 190).
A review of the wrens of the genus Troglodytes. Proc.U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvi1, No. 1354, Jan. 23, 1904, pp. 197-210, pl. v.
Thirty-seven species and subspecies of Troglodytes are here recognized, of which the following are described as new: Troglodytes musculus acosmus, p. 204, T. m. atopus, p. 207, and TJ. m. enochrus, p. 207. A new generic name, Thryorchilus, p. 198, 4 proposed for Troglodytes brownt Bangs.
Description of a new African weaver-bird. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XxX v1, No. 1370, Apr. 13, 1904, p. 683.
Philetairus cabanisi enchorus, collected in Somali Land by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, is described as a new subspecies.
Description of two new birds from
Somali Land. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XxX v1, No. 1373, May 21, 1904, pp. 737-739. Merops superciliosus donaldsoni, p. 737, and Polihierax semitorquatus homopterus, p. 738, are described as new.

<<<Page: 200>>>

ORTMANN, A. E. The cosmopolitan character of the deep-sea
fauna. Science (new series), XIX, No. 491, May 27, 1904, pp. 827, 828.
A review of a paper with the above title read before the Academy of Science and Art of Pittsburg, Feb. 2, 1904. The paper is based onasmall collection of deep-sea schizopoda from the Hawaiian Islands, collected by the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries steamer Albatross,
and now belonging to the U. S. National |
Museum.
PHALEN, Wituram C. Notes on the rocks of Nugsuaks Peninsula and its
environs, Greenland. Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 1, 2, Jan. 7, 1904, pp. 183212, 3 pls. Describes the rocks of the peninsula, their mineral composition, microscopic structure, and chemical composition. An attempt is also made to classify them by the method suggested by Messrs. Cross, Iddings, Washington, and Pirsson.
A new occurrence of unakite.
Smithsonian Mise. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue, I, pts. 3, 4, Apr. 11, 1904, pp. 306316, 3 pls.
The paper describes an interesting occurrence of the epidotic granite, such as was first named unakite by Bradley, and which here occurs as a contact rock in connection with more basic eruptives. —
PRENTISS, Dante, Wepster. Description of an extinct mink from the shell heaps of the Maine coast.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXvi, No. 13386, July 6, 1903, pp. 887, 888, 1 text fig. Lutreola macrodon (p. 888) .
RATHBUN, Mary J.
crab name. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVil, Apr. 9, 1904, p. 102. Melia Latreille, in common use, should be superseded by Lybia Milne-Edwards.
A preoccupied
Decapod crustaceans of the Northwest coast of North America. Harriman Alaska Expedition, X, Apr. 18, 1904, pp. 1-190, pls. I-x, text figs. 1-95. Based on material collected by the Harriman Expedition, and by the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, Dr. W. H. Dall and others. Descriptions and figures of all known species are given, and also a check list of all the speeies of the region. One species, Belwus harrimani, is described as new.
the little-
RATHBUN, Ricuarp. Report upon the condition and progress of the U. S. National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1901.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp. 1-174.
Report upon the condition and progress of the U.S. National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1902.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1902 (1903), pp. 1-168.
RAVENEL,W. pr C. The United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, and its exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition, St. Louis, Mo., 1904. 8vo., pp. 1-54, frontispiece. (Press of Gibson Brothers, Washington, D. C.)
REHN, James A. G. Studies in Ameri-
can mantids or soothsayers. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xxvil, No: 1364, Feb. 6, 1904, pp. 561-574.
Studies in old world forficulids or
earwigs, and blattids or cockroaches. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviI, No. 1363, Feb. 16, 1904, pp. 5389-560.
(See also under Grerrir 8. MiLLER, Jr.)
RICHARDSON, Harrier. Isopods collected at the Hawaiian Islands by the United States Fish Commission steamer Albatross.
Bull. U. S. Fish Com. for 1903, Sept. 17, 1903, pp. 47-54, text figs. 1-8. Nine species were collected, of which four are described as new and two represent new genera.
Contributions to the natural his-
tory of the Isopoda. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX vil, No. 1350, Jan. 19, 1904, pp. 1-89, text figs. 1-92; No. 1369, Apr. 18, 1904, pp. 657-681, text figs. 1-39.
No. 1350 includes the following: An introduction dealing with the classification, anatomy, development, habits, distribution, ete., of the Isopoda; and four systematic papers bearing the subtitles:
I. Isopoda collected in Japan in the year 1900 by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, and in the year 1881 by the U.S. 8. Palos. ;
II. Isopoda collected in Japan by Jordan and Snyder.
Ill. Two new Cymothoids from the west coast of Central America,
IV. American Epicaridea,

<<<Page: 201>>>

RICHARDSON, Harrier—Continued.
No. 1369 comprises two papers reprinted respectively from the Harriman Alaska Expedition, Vol. x, and from the Bulletin of the U.:S. Fish Commission for 1903. (See above.).
The whole was reprinted as a separate with pagination I-1x, 1-113, and presented as a thesis for the Doctorate of Philosophy at Columbian University, Washington, D. C., 1903.
Isopod crustaceans of the North-
west coast of North America. Harriman Alaska Expedition, x, April 18, 1904, pp. 213-230, text figs. 96-117. Besides the Isopoda of the Harriman Expedition a number of Californian species are included. Five new species and two little ' known are described and figured.
RICHMOND, CHartes W. name for the American crow. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xv, Sept. 30, 1903, p. 125. Note directing attention to the name Corvus
Earliest
brachyrhynchos Brehm as antedating Audu-
bon’s Corvus americanus.
Scolecophagus preoccupied. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1, Sept. 30, 1903, p. 128. Scolecophagus Swainson is shown to be preoccupied, and Euphagus Cassin is suggested for use in its stead.
On the name Eniconetta. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV1, Sept. 30, 1903, p. 128. Polysticta Eyton is suggested as the proper name for the genus currently known as Eniconetta.
‘‘ Index Zoologicus.”’ Auk, XX, No. 4, Oct., 1903, pp. 450, 451.
RIDGWAY, Roserrt. Beolophus. Auk, Xx, No. 3, July, 1903, p. 308.
Note showing the name Lophophanes to refer to the old-world Crested Tits. The American species should be included in the genus Beolophus.
Lophophanes vs.
Description of new genera, species
and subspecies of American birds. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVv1, Sept. 30, 1903, pp. 105-111.
The following birds are here briefly diagnosed: Budytes flavus alascensis (p. 105), Alopochelidon (type, Hirundo fucata Temminck) (p. 106), Orochelidon (type, Petrochelidon murina Cassin) (p. 106), Diplochelidon (type, Hirundo melanoleuca Wied) (p. 106), Lamprochelidon (type, Hirundo. euchrysea Gosse) (p.
RIDGWAY, Rosert—Continued.
106), Stelgidopteryx salvini (p. 107), Vireosylva gilva brewsteri (p. 107), V. joseph costaricensis (p. 107), Vireo huttoni cognatus (p. 107), V. huttoni mexicanus (p. 107), V. bellii arizonx (p. 108). Pachysilvia ochraceiceps pallidipectus p. 108), Vireolanius pulchellus viridiceps (p. 108), Lanius ludovicianus mearnsii (p. 108), Aphelocoma unicolor celestis (p.108), Beolophus inornatus restrictus (p. 109), B. i. murinus (p. 109), Psaltriparus minimus saturatus (p. 109), Chama fasciata rufula (p. 109), Polioptila nelsoni(p. 109), P. bairdi (p. 110), P. superciliaris magna, (p. 110), Telmatodytes palustris iliacus, (p. 110) and Heleodytes nelsoni (p. 111).
Diagnoses of nine new forms of American birds. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv1, Nov. 30, 1903, pp. 167-169.
Brief descriptions are given of the following new species and subspecies: Thryophilus pleurostictus ravus (p. 167), T. modestus pullus (p. 167), Salpinctes obsoletus notius (p. 168), Henicorhina leucophrys castanea (p. 168), H. 7. berlepschi (p. 168), ‘H. hilaris bangsi (p. 168), Cistothorus polyglottus lucidus (p. 169), Saipinetes obsoletus exsul, (p. 169), and S. maculatus (p. 169).
RILEY, J. H. _A new subspecies of
night hawk from the Bahama Islands. Auk, XxX, No. 4, Oct., 1908, pp. 431-433. Chordeiles virginianus vicinus (p. 432), is described as new, and comparisons are made with nearly related forms.
TheSnowy Ploverin the Bahamas. Auk, xx, No. 4, Oct., 1908, p. 433. Note on the capture of gialitis nivosa on Long Island, Bahamas.
The second known specimen of Centurus nyeanus Ridgway. Auk, XX, No. 4, Oct., 1908, p. 434. Record of a second specimen of Nye’s Woodpecker, from Watlings Island, Bahamas.
ROSE, Josepn N. nov. | Rep. Mo. Botan. Garden, vol. 15, 1904, pp. 80, 81; pls. 28, 29.
ROSE, J. N., and BRITTON, N. L. New or noteworthy North American Crassu-
laceze. Bull. N. Y. Botan. Garden, 3, Sept., 1903, pp. 1-45.
This paper is a preliminary treatment of the Crassulaceze for North America, and will soon be followed by an exhaustive monograph of the family. A large number of new species are described and the following genera: Dudleya, Hasseanthus, Sedella, Urbinia, Altamiranoa, Villadia, Stylophyllum, Gormannia, Oliverella, Clementia, and Tilleastrwm.
[ Begonia wnifolia sp.

<<<Page: 202>>>

SCHUCHERT, Cartes. On the faunal provinces of the Middle Devonic of America and the Devonie Coral subprovinces of Russia, with two paleographic maps.
Am. Geologist, XXXII, Sept., 1908, pp. 157162, and 2 maps.
This paper points out some of the salient differences between the Devonie faunas of the Dakota Sea having Euro-asiatie characteristics and those of the Mississippian Sea, which is of the ‘‘American Province.’ The probable lands separating these seas are described and mapped.
On new Siluric Cystoidea, and a new Camarocrinus. Am. Geologist, XXXII, Oct., 1903, pp. 2380240.
Describes two new genera, Jexkelocyslis and Celocystis, and the following seven new species: Jekelocystis hartleyi, Spherocystites globularis, Pseudocrinites gordoni, P. stellatus, P. clarki, P. perdewi, and Camarocrinus ulrichi.
All the material isin the national collection.
SHARPE, Ricnharp W. Report on the fresh-water Ostracoda of the United States National Museum, including a revision of the subfamilies and genera of the family Cyprididee.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXvi, No. 1347, July 15, 1903, pp. 969-1001, pls. LXIV-LXIX. Includes keys to the subdivisions of the family Cyprididz, keys to North American species, revised descriptions of genera. One genus and two species are described as new.
SMITH, Hueu M. Description of anew species of blind eel, of the genus Anguilla.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XV11, June 9, 1904, pp. 121, 122.
SNYDER, JoHNn OTTERBEIN.
Davin STarr JORDAN. )
STARKS, Epwrn CHaPin. of some Berycoid fishes. Proc. Us Sy) Nate Muss xxvii, No: Feb. 18, 1904, pp. 601-619, figs. 1-10. (See also under CHArtes H. GILBERT and Davip STARR JORDAN. ) STEARNS, R. E. C. Philippines. Science (new series), XVIII, No. 457, Oct. 2, 1908, pp. 439, 440. STEBBING, THomas R. R. from Costa Rica. Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., XXvi, No. 13841, July 9, 1903, pp. 925-931, pls. LX, LXI. Two new species collected by Prof. P.
Biolley, of the National Museum of Costa Rica— Talorchestia fritzi and Hyalella faxont.
(See under
The osteology
1366,
Eucalypts in’ the
Amphipoda
STEERE, Josep BEAL. Narrative of a visit to Indian tribes of the Purus River, Brazil.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 1901 (1903), pp. 359-398, pls. 1-9.
STEJNEGER, Leonnarp. Report of the delegate to the Fifth International Zoological Congress, Berlin, Aug. 12-16, 1901.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.), 1902 (1903), pp. 167, 168.
A new hognose snake from Florida. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvi, Sept. 30, 1903, pp. 128, 124. Described as new species, Heterodon browni, type No. 32089, U.S.N.M.
A new species of large iguana from the Bahama Islands. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xv1, Novy. 12, 1903, pp. 129-1382. Described as new species, Cyclura rileyi, type No. 31969, U.S.N.M.
A new lizard from the Rio Grande
Valley, Texas. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., Xvul, Feb. 5, 1904, pp. 17-20. Described as new species; Sceloporus merriami, type No. 330389, U.S.N.M.
A reply to recent strictures on American biologists. Science (new series) X1Ix, Mar. 4, 1904, pp. 371-376.
Written principally in order to show the necessity of the American museums acquiring more biological material from the palearetie region.
— The Herpetology of Porto Rico.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.), 1902 (1904), pp. 549-724, pl. 1, figs. 1-197. A full account of all the reptiles and batraehians found in Porto Rico, including detailed descriptionsaccompanied by numerous text figures of all the species, as wellas general chapters on their origin and distribution. The following species are described as new: Eleutherodactylus richmondi, Eleutherodactylus unicolor, Spherodactylus grandisquamis, Anolis monensis, Anolis evermanni, Anolis poncensis, Amphisbena bakeri, Typhlops rostellatus,
Typhlops dominicanus, Leimadophis stahli.
STEVENSON, Matiupa Coxe. games. Am. Anthropologist (new series), V, No. 3, July-Sept., 1908, pp. 468-497, pls. XLVIII, XLIX, 11 text figs.
A paper devoted to the study and illustration of all the important games (seventeen in number) of the Zuni Indians. These do not include children’s games.
Zuni

<<<Page: 203>>>

STILES, CwHar“tEs WARDELL. Clinical diagnosis of intestinal parasites. Journ. Am. Med. Assoc., X11, No. 3, July 18, 1903, pp. 172, 173.
The dwarf tapeworm ( Hymenolepis nana), a newly recognized and probably rather common American parasite.
New York Med. Journ., UXxyit, No. 19, Noy. 7, 1903, pp. 877-881, figs. 1-5. STILES, CHartes WaARDELL, and HASSALL, Apert. Index catalogue of medical and veterinary zoology.
Bull. Bureau Animal Industry, U. 8. Dept. Agric., No. 39, Part 4, Authors, D-Dziembowski, pp. 325-403 (issued, July, 1903); Part 5, Authors, E-Eyssel, pp. 405-435 (issued, Sept., 1903); Part 6, Authors, F-Fynney, pp. 437-510 (issued, Feb., 1904).
TASSIN, Wirt. The Persimmon Creek meteorite. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvit, No. 1380, June 27, 1904, pp. 955-959, pls. 49, 50. A description and analysis of a meteoric iron found on Persimmon Creek, Cherokee
Co.,N.C. The iron is described ‘‘as a granu|
lar octahedrite, containing numerous troilite and some silicate areas.’’ Analyses of the mass and of the nickel-iron alloys and the silicate are given.
TRUE, Freperick W. First record of |
the Pollack whale (Balznoptera borealis) in the western North Atlantic. Science (new series), xvu, No. 421, Jan. 23, 1903, p. 150. A note on the common Bottlenosed Porpoise of the North Atlantic, Turscops truncatus (Montagu).
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., March, 1903 |
(issued July 3, 1903), pp. 313, 314.
On species of South American Delphinidze described by Dr. R. A. Philipp in 1893 and 1896.
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XVI, 1903 (issued
Noy. 12, 1903), pp. 133-144.
On some photographs of living finback whales from Newfoundland.
Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. issue,
No. 1423, Dec. 9, 1903, pp. 91-94, pls. 24-26.
Notes on a porpoise of the genus Prodelphinus from the Hawaiian Islands.
U.S. Fish Com. Bull. for 1903, pp. 41-45, pls. 1, 2.
TRUE, Freperick W. Report on the Department of Biology for the year 1900-1901.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp. 63-80.
——— Report on the Department of Biology for the year 1901-1902.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1902 (1903), pp. 59-76.
Notes on a Killer Whale (genus Orcinus) from the coast of Maine.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxv, No. 1357,
Jan. 27, 1904, pp. 227-230, pls. 7, 8.
A summary of general observations on the sports and movements of whales. By Emile G. Racovitza. (Translation. )
Rept. Smithsonian Inst. 1903 (1904), pp. 627-
645.
——— Mammals, grampus, killer, narwhal, porpoise, rorqual, spermaceti, whale, whalebone, whaling.
Encyclopedia Americana, 1904.
TRUE, Freprerick W., HOLMES, W1-
| waM H., and MERRILL, Grorce P. Report on the exhibit of the United States National Museum at the PanAmerican Exposition, Buffalo, New York, 1901. :
Rep. Sinithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1901 (1903), pp. 177-231, pls. 1-72.
UHLER, Puiuie R. List of HemipteraHeteroptera of Las Vegas Hot Springs, New Mexico, collected by Messrs. E. A. Schwarz and Herbert 8. Barber.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxvi1, No. 1360, Jan. 27, 1904, pp. 349-364.
| ULRICH, E.0O.,and BASSLER, R.S. A | revision of the Paleozoic Bryozoa. Part | I.—On the genera and species of Cten-
ostomata. Smithsonian Misc. Colls., XLV, Quar. Issue, I, pts. 3 and 4, Apr. 11,1904, pp. 256-294, pls. 65-68, 2 text figs.
As the title indicates, this is a revision of the Paleozoic ctenostomatous bryozoa. All the old species and genera of the order are defined, besides the new ones, a§ follows: Heteronema (H. capillare, H. carbonarium, and H.? contextum), Allonema (A. botelloides, A. waldronense, A. suffusiforme, and A. moniliSorme-aggregatum), and Ptychocladia (P. agel-
aThis title was not received in time to permit of its insertion in the Bibliography for the preceding
year.

<<<Page: 204>>>

ULRICH, E. O., and BASSLER, R. 8.—
Continued. lus). Other new species are Rhopalonaria ’ attenuata, R. robusta, R.tenuis, R. medialis, R. keokukensis, Vinella ? multiradiata, Ascodictyon floreale, A. parvulum, and A. sparsum.
VAUGHAN, T. Waytanp.  Memoirs Cal. Acad. Sci., 111, 1908, pp. 86-89, pl. ili, figs. 1-4a.
Four species are described, three of which, Caryophyllia californica from the Pliocene, Caryophyllia pedrensis and Paracyathus pedransis from the Pleistocene are considered new. Included in ‘‘ Ralph Arnold’s Paleontology and stratigraphy of the marine Pliocene and Pleistocene of San Pedro, California.”’
A Californian Tertiary coral reef and its bearing on American recent
coral faunas. Science (new series), XIX, Mar. 25, 1904, p. 503.
This is an abstract of a paper read before the Geological Society of Washington, January 27, 1904. It was shown that during Lower Miocene time the West Indian type of coral fauna extended westward into the Pacific and it was subsequent to that time that the Atlantic and Pacific faunas of America have been so markedly differentiated.
Zoology and the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. Science (new series), XIX, June 8, 1904, pp. 860, 861.
Review of Coelenterata in The International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. First Annual Issue, N, Zoology (for the year 1901); 1904 (February).
| WHITE, Davip, Summary of the fossil plants recorded from the Upper Carboniferous and Permian formations of
Kansas. Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 211, 1903, pp. 85-117.
This paper on the fossil plants of the coal measures of Kansas contains a summary of all the genera and species as yet made known from the Upper Carboniferous of that State, ] with a discussion of the age of the beds and provisional correlations of the plant-bearing terranes with the coal measures of the Appalachian trough. The greater part of the material in question is included in the Lacoe collection, which furnished nearly all the types of a number of new species described, as well as for several species not before reported in North America. The article also gives the names of a number of new species embraced in unpublished manuscript by Leo Lesquereux, the Kansas types of which are all preserved in the Lacoe collection. The Museum catalogue numbers of the specimens are cited throughout the paper under the records of the various types.
WILSON, CHartes Brancm. <A new species of Argulus, with a more complete account of two species already described.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxviI, No. 1368, Apr. 9, 1904, pp. 627-655, text figs. 1-38.
Argulus trilineatus new species and fuller accounts of A. americanus and A. versicolor.

<<<Page: 205>>>

ArNotp, Raupn, U. 8. Geological Survey.
AsHMeApb, WiutramM H., U. 8. National Museum.
Baker, Cart F., Havana, Cuba.
Banas, OurrRAm, Boston, Mass.
Banks, NatHan, U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
Barrtsco, Paun, U. S. National Museum.
Basser, R. §., U. 8. Geological Survey.
Bean, Barton A., U. S. National Museum.
Bents, FLtorencE E., Stanford University, Cal.
Benepict, JAMES E., U. 8. National Museum.
Bensamin, Marcus, U. 8. National Museum.
BowonrisH, B. S., New York City.
Brirron, N. L., director, Botanical Garden, New York City.
Buscx, Aucust, U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
Casanowicz, I. M., U.'S. National Museum.
CAUDELL, ANDREW Ne son, U. 8. Department of Agriculture. CHAPMAN, FRANK M., American Museum of Natural History, New York City. CiarkK, Austin H., Boston, Mass. , CLARKE, SAMUEL FESSENDEN, Williams College, Williamstown, Mass. Coie, Leon J., Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. Coquitierr, D. W., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
CoviLLE, FRepERIcK Vernon, U. 8S. Department of Agriculture. Currif, Rotua Parreson, U. 8. National Museum.
Dat, WitiiAM Heratey, U.S. Geological Survey.
Davenvort, CHarues B., Coldspring Harbor, Long Island, N. Y. Dyar, Harrison G., U. S. National Museum.
EiGENMANN, Caru H., Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind. Frewkes, J. Water, Bureau of American Ethnology.
FIsHER, WALTER K., Palo Alto, Cal.
Fuint, JAmEs M., U. 8. Navy (retired), U. S. National Museum. Fow er, Henry W., Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal. GILBERT, CHARLES H., Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal. Git, THEoporE, U. 8. National Museum.
Girty, GEORGE H., U. 8. Geological Survey.
GRABAU, AMADEUS W., Columbia University, New York City. Hassauu, ALBERT, U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
Ho.tmes, W. H., Chief, Bureau of American Ethnology.
Houeu, Watrerr, U. 8. National Museum.
Howarp, L. O., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
Hroricka, Atgs, U. 8. National Museum.
Hyarr, AvpHevs. (Deceased. )

<<<Page: 206>>>

Jentnes, Foster H. (Deceased. )
JORDAN, Davin Starr, President Lelana Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal.
Lucas, Freperic A., U. 8S. National Museum.
Lyon, Marcus Warp, jr., U. S. National Museum.
McDoueat, D. T., Botanical Garden, Bronx Park, New York City.
McGregor, RicHarp C., Manila, P. I.
MarsHatu, WiiiiAM B., U.S. National Museum.
Mason, Oris Turron, U. 8. National Museum.
Maxon, Witi1am R., U.S. National Museum.
Maynarp, GrorGe C., U. 8. National Museum.
Merritt, G. P., U. S. National Museum.
MILLER, Gerrit §., jr., U. S. National Museum.
Moore, CLARENCE B., Philadelphia, Pa.
NerEepHAM, JAMES G., Lake Forest, Ill.
Netson, E. W., U. S. Department of Agriculture.
Norton, C. A. Q., Hartford, Conn.
NurtinG, CHARLES CLEVELAND, University of lowa, Iowa City, Iowa.
OsBERHOLSER, Harry C., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
OrTMANN, A. E., Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, Pa.
PHALEN, WiuuiAM C., U. 8. Geological Survey.
Prentiss, DanteL WesstER, Washington, D. C.
Ratusun, Mary J., U. S. National Museum.
RarHsuN, RicHarpD, U. 8. National Museum.
RAVENEL, W. DE C., U. S. National Museum.
Rean, James A. G., Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.
RicHarpson, Harrier, U. S. National Museum.
RicHMonpD, CHARLES W., U.S. National Museum.
Ripaway, Rosert, U. 8. National Museum.
Riney, J. H., U. S. National Museum.
Ross, J. N., U.S. National Museum.
ScHUCHERT, CHARLES, U. 8. National Museum.
SHarPE, Richard W., British Museum (Natural History), South Kensington, London, England.
SmitH, Hucu M., U. S. Bureau of Fisheries.
Snyper, JOHN OrTEeRBEIN, Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Jal.
Srarks, Epwin Crapin, Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, Cal.
Srearns, R. E. C., Los Angeles, Cal.
SresBinGc, Rey. THomas R. R., Tunbridge Wells, England.
STEERE, JosePpH BEAL, Ann Arbor, Mich.
STEJNEGER, LeonHARD, U. 8. National Museum.
Srevenson, Matitpa Coxe, Bureau of American Ethnology.
Stites, CHARLES WarRDELL, U. 8. Marine-Hospital Service.
Tasstn, Wirt, U. 8. National Museum.
Trup, Freperick W., U.S. National Museum.
Unter, Purp R., Peabody Institute, Baltimore, Md.
Utrica, E. O., U. 8. Geological Survey.
VauGuHan, T. Waytanp, U. 8. Geological Survey.
Wauire, Davin, U. 8. Geological Survey.
Witson, Cuartes Brancu, State Normal School, Westfield, Mass.
~~ a

<<<Page: 207>>>

The congress held its first meeting on August 20 in the festsalle of the Vienna University, and all the subsequent meetings were held in this large and handsome building. The opening gathering was a festal one, and the addresses of wekcome were made by the protector of the congress, Erzherzog Rainer, and by the honorary president, Dr. von Hartel. Prorektor Hofrat Dr. Schipper greeted the congress for the university, and Vizeburgemeister Strobach for the city of Vienna. The president of the congress, director of the Royal Geological Institute of Austria, called attention to the great variety of geological structures and formations within the Austrian Empire, invited all to join the excursions, and thus to learn by practical means what the Austrian geologists had to offer. The routine work of the congress largely devolved upon the general secretary, Prof. Dr. Diener, of the university.
The social side of the congress, of course, could not be other than kindly, due to the well-known hospitality of Austrians, and especially of the citizens of the beautiful city of Vienna. On the evening of the 24th of August the congress was invited to a reception and banquet in the grand rathause by Herr Strobach, assisted by Dr. Neumayer. About 500 ladies and gentlemen participated.
The congress was a success, as 355 members were in attendance out of 640 that had registered. North America was represented by 1 from Mexico, 2 from Canada, and 22 from the United States. The standard of the papers presented was high. One day was occupied by seven speakers from various parts of the world in presenting a synopsis of our present knowledge of the crystalline rocks. Our countryman, C. R. Van Hise, took a leading part in this presentation. Another day was devoted to “Faults and Cliffs,’? one of the speakers being Mr. Bailey Willis, of the U. S. Geological Survey, who presented a paper entitled ‘‘On the overthrust faults of North America.’’ <A timely and well-illustrated presentation was that of Dr. E. O. Hovey on “‘The 1902 eruptions of La Pelée, Martinique, and La Souffriére, St. Vincent.” Another day was devoted to a presentation of the geology of the Balkan Peninsula and the Orient. The scientific meetings were on alternate days, the intermediate ones being occupied by excursions to noted places of geologic interest around Vienna. These one-day excursions were necessarily made hurriedly and were intended to acquaint the visitors with some of the broader structures, of which Austria has so large a variety.
At Vienna a paleontologist finds much to interest him, not only in the beautiful and well-ordered museum and through coming in contact with many able scientific men, but also from a study of the great collections. If one wishes to examine Austrian fossils from the provincial or stratigraphic side, he will find the Geologische Reichsanstalt in Rasumoffskygasse full of interest. For general paleontology there are the splendid collections of the Naturhistorische Hofmuseum, and of paleobiology at the Paleontological Institute of the University.

<<<Page: 208>>>

The closing banquet of the congress, at the Hotel Continental on the evening of August 27, was one of those pleasant affairs which will live long in the memory of the attending geologists because of the general good fellowship. Tietze presided at this banquet and spoke the official farewell in French, followed by Geikie with reminiscences in English. The latter told us that more than forty years ago he made his first visit to Vienna for the purpose of consulting with Haidinger, one of the great geologists of that day. Of those he then met, nearly all are now gone except ing Suess, thena young man beginning to attract peentions but now known to us all through his masterly work, ‘‘ Das Antlitz der Erde.’
This reference to forty cone ago, when both Geikie and Suess were young, visibly
affected the latter. Toward the end of the speaking Suess rose. and with bowed
head and a low voice increasing to considerable volume as he proceeded, spoke eloquently in German in the following words:
‘“‘My distinguished master, Sir Archibald Geikie, was so kind as to say that more than forty years ago he became personally acquainted with me. With my highly honored friend Baron Richthofen, it is rather near fiftv years. What a memorable half century we have lived through! During this time, under the influence of increasing knowledge of nature, all human conceptions of the earth have changed. It is remarkable, however, to see how often the single inquirer, bent upon the objeet of his quest, fails to comprehend the broader aspects of a problem by whose details he is fettered, just as the stonecutter clinging to the facade, can not see the splendor of the structure on which he himself is engaged. And yet there is a special charm in geological studies precisely on account of the extraordinary range of accommodation that is demanded of the eye—of the same eye which now examines the disintegration of quartz in a thin slide under the microscope, now sweeps over snowy mountain peaks, over dark precipitous cliffs and verdant vales, and with commanding glance reads their structure in the features of the landscape. But not less is the demand on the adjusting powers of the mind. From the most subtle conclusions derived from an ingenious experiment the geologist must be able to lift the mental eye over hill and valley into the most distant parts of the universe. There the elowing spectra of nebulee teach him that even now the great processes of world-making are not yet ended. With the aid of instruments he can daily witness the greatest eruptions of superheated gases emanating from the body of our sun. Photography spreads before him the pictures of the desolate crater fields of the moon.
‘*Returning to his earth he now perceives that the sum total of life’s phenomena not only forms a single phenomenon, but that it is also limited by space and time. It occurs to him now that the stone which his hammer strikes is but the nearest lying piece of the planet, that the history of this stone is a fragment of the history of the planet, and that the history of the planet itself is only a very small part of the history of the great, wonderful, and ever-changing kosmos.
‘His heart then thrills; he*feels called as a colaborer on the most sublime problems in which feeble mortal beings can take part. Then, too, he sees that the fundamental lines of structure coursing over the earth’s surface have nothing to do with the political lines separating the nations. The vastness of the problem itself makes the concord of civilized natioris natural, and they remain separated only through their emulation, all filled with the idea that mankind in general will most highly esteem that nation which is in the position to offer the most and the best of noble example, of new truth, and of ideal worth.
‘“These are the words which have crowded into articulation at this moment when you, now gathered from all parts of the world, are about to disperse.
‘‘For the continuation of the feelings that fill us to-day, and for continued inspiration for our noble science, I raise my glass.’’
Wasuineton, D. C., June 25, 1904.

<<<Page: 209>>>

fc eel ern (aed Wd [ee
Page
Contributions to the History of American Geology. By George P. Merrill... 189 The 8. S. Howland Collection of Buddhist Religious Art in the National Mu-
SOU vas lrmTd ermine lnViEw CHSAMO WIC Zar enero 2 oor eater ee 2 739
Flint Implements of the Fayum, Egypt. By Heywood Walter Seton-Karr... 745

<<<Page: 210>>>



<<<Page: 211>>>

Oe a ee
OD ws . “” oa My = T ~ ad : 4 2 ‘ +. eo = « 7
ts (hat 20 265e astyl L
Pe E iD ite or Ge -~ a, '
SIN Lenitgor..: i

<<<Page: 212>>>

LEWwrs
(MILES Sgi tow # Dugare
frais
‘Report of U. S. Natlonal Museum, 1904—Mertil
. 1809
Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, Vol. VI. Pt.
Reduced copy of original in

<<<Page: 213>>>



<<<Page: 214>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904—Merrill.
Gaps SS Mae

<<<Page: 215>>>

GEORGE P. MERRILL, Head Curator of Geology, U. S. National Museum. -

<<<Page: 216>>>

4 =| ae . Ji ap ic y WW ‘t + . i ie eee Pe ohia PA a =e le a2 : fy. ‘ > 2 « om F mh, 5 > Se ~ A . 4 .
: Ee Lie The attainment of scientific truth has been effected to a great extent by the help, a
of scientific error.—Hualey. 7
_— i ' ;4 ‘ ~_
i ) id
i =>
2 “phe
af .
po »
' a “ Z se ‘> 4.

<<<Page: 217>>>

The work herewith presented is in part an outgrowth of a series of lectures to students in geology in Columbian (now George Washington) University, though many of the facts were gathered while looking up the records of the early Government surveys, with a view of ascertaining the final disposition of their collections. No idea was at first entertained of putting the matter in book form, but as material gradually accumulated the advisability of making it a permanent record became apparent. On the supposition that it was a desirable thing to do atall, it is perhaps fortunate that the idea of a fairly consecutive history of the rise and progress of American geology was, like the science itself, a matter of growth, as the magnitude of the task would certainly have deterred from undertaking it one whose main opportunity lay in the improvement of odd moments.
As to the mode of presentation of the subject: It has been the writer’s desire to do this in a manner such as should show not merely what has been done, by whom, and how it has been done, but the gradual growth of the science and the development of powers of observation and deduction as well. To do this satisfactorily, no other arrangement than a chronological one seemed possible, though it must be confessed that’ a topical one would have been easier to handle and could, perhaps, have been made more readable. In several instances, indeed, the topical treatment has been adopted, as in the chapters on the EKozoon and the Taconic question. Should it appear that the method is essentially similar to that adopted by Sir Archibald Geikie in his Founders of Geology, the writer has only to express the regret that the imitation is so crude.
Let no one fora moment feel that the writer has called attention to the errors and crudities of observation and deduction of the early workers in aspirit of levity. Farfromthat. These men were pioneers. They had received little or no preliminary training along these special lines, and had access to but few books. The information with which the geologist of to-day begins his career did not then exist, and an effort has here been made to show by what years of toil each new fact has been unearthed, cleansed of the débris which obscured its outlines, and treasured up in such form that it is now possible for the student, in a few short years, to encompass the garnerings of a century.

<<<Page: 218>>>

oe REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.
Nor must it be thought that in touching upon sundry disputes, quarrels, and petty jealousies it has been done with an idea of belittling the individual in any way. Indeed, a truly able man is not belittled | by his weaknesses. To appreciate his strength we need to know his weakness. These were but men, and we, who are weakly human, like to recognize in them human traits—like to learn of their errors in judgment and wordy warfares.
Regarding the portraits, it may, perhaps, be well to state that a special effort has been made to obtain such as represented the indiyidual at the period of his career under discussion. This has naturally been a matter of some difficulty, and in some cases an impossibility.
A large part of those here reproduced are from the G. Brown Goode collection in the National Museum and the private collection of the writer. For assistance in securing others the writer is indebted to Prot. W. H. Brewer, Prof. W: 3B. Clarkes Dr. W.-H. ‘Dall sSia ke: Emmons, Dr. A. C. Peale, T. C. Weston, Gen. A. W. Vogdes, and others. Acknowledgments for other assistance are due to many, but particularly to Prof. Charles Schuchert, formerly of the National Museum, but now of Yale University. Miss Lucy M. Graves has rendered valuable assistance, both in preparation of the manuscript and reading the proof.

<<<Page: 219>>>

CHAPTER I. Page. TENGE ANCHOR TERE GFT TG eS Oe ee Oe eee ae ee ee 207
Condition of geological science in the latter part of the eighteenth century. Work of Gittard, Pallas, De Saussure, Lehman, Fuchsel, Werner, and Hutton. Johann Schoépf’s Contribution to the. Geology of Eastern North America. Brief papers in the Memoirs of American Academy. Supposed volcano in Connecticut. Condition of analytical chemistry. Benjamin De Witt on the origin of the drift. Theories of Benjamin Franklin relative to earth history. Paleontological work of Thomas Jefferson. Rembrandt Peale’s account of the mammoth. Thomas P. Smith’s account of the Conewago Hills. B. H. Latrobe’s recognition of the ‘‘fall line.’ Appointment of Benjamin Silliman at Yale College. Silliman’s Mineralogy of New Haven. His account of the Weston meteorite. James Mease’s geological account of the United States. William Maclure’s Observations on the Geology of the United States. Sketch of Maclure. §. Godon’s mineralogical observations. Establishment of Bruce’s Mineralogical Journal. Samuel Akerly’s geological account of Dutchess County, N. Y. J. Corre de Serra’s ideas on soil formation. Jefferson’s views regarding the Natural Bridge of Virginia. “Views of Francis W. Gilmer and Elias Cornelius on the same. Parker Cleaveland’s Elementary Treatise on Mineralogy and Geology. Sketch of Cleaveland. Second edition of Maclure’s observations. Establishment by Silliman of the American Journal of Science. J. F. and 8. L. Dana’s Geology and Mineralogy of Boston. 8S. L. Mitchill’s Observations on the Geology of North America. Mitchill’s ideas relative to the Great Lakes and the drift. Edward Hitchcock’s first geological paper. Amos Eaton’s Index to the Geology of the Northern United States. Eaton’s conjectures respecting the formation of the earth. Organization of the American Geological Society. H. R. Schoolcraft’s explorations. $8. H. Long’s expedition to the Rocky Mountains. Edwin James’s suggestions as to artesian wells in the arid regions. Geological notes by Silliman, Olmsted, and Atwater. Akerly’s essay on the Geology of the Hudson River.
TERE OTTER LSS Oe iene ete hen ge eee Pere A ey NR me EE 251
Generalities. Second edition of Eaton’s Index. Eaton’s views relative to the origin of the continents and of caves. Early suggestions as to overturned folds. Eaton’ssurvey of Rensselaer County, NewYork. J. B.Gibson on trap rocks of the Conewago Hills. Nuttall’s observations on geology. H. H. Hayden’s geological essays. Hayden’s views as to origin of the coastal plain and on rock decomposition. Sketch of Hayden. J. W. Wilson’s criticism of the hypotheses of Volney and Mitchill. Thomas Cooper’s ideas concerning voleanoes. Sketch of Cooper. Supposed human
NAT Mus 1904——13 193

<<<Page: 220>>>

footprints in limestone; views of Schoolcraft, Benton, and Owen. Early suggestions of faulting and displacement. John J. Bigsby’s work in Canada. John Finch’s subdivision of the Tertiary. Work of Denison Olmsted in North Carolina. Sketch of Olmsted. Hitchcock’s Geology of the Region Contiguous to the Connecticut River. Chester Dewey on the Geology and Mineralogy of the Western part of Massachusetts. Eaton’s survey of the district adjoining the Erie Canal. Geological views of Rafinesque. Peter Dobson’s observations on the drift. The Long-Keating expedition to the Great Lakes and the sources of the Mississippi. J. H. Steel on overturned folds. J. Van Rensselaer’s lectures on geology. Isaac Lea on earthquakes. Maclure’s criticisms of the views of Scrope and Lea. Ebenezer Emmons’s Manual of Mineralogy and Geology. Gerard Troost and his work. J. W. Webster’s account of the geology about Boston. Alanson Nash on the formation of mineral veins. Work of Elisha Mitchell in North Carolina. Mitchell’s criticism of the views of Olmsted and Rothe. Views of Benjamin Tappan concerning drift. The dark ages of geology. First attempt at correlation of beds by means of fossils. Work of Jackson and Alger in Nova Scotia. Sketch of C. T. Jackson. Views of Lardner Vanuxem on the Tertiary and the relative age of rocks, as indicated by position. Sketchof Vanuxem. First American edition of Bakewell’s Geology, with Silliman’s notes. Silliman’s views relative to the early history of the earth and the Noachian deluge.
UR ONO FM SLALEMS UNUCUS LUN SE LEGCO QE LSS Onl OS. manatee ee ee Generalities. Amos Eaton’s Geological Text-Book. His views regarding the formation of various geological deposits; relative to the value of fossils. Personal characteristics of Eaton. Founding of the Monthly American Journal of Natural History. Sketch of G. W. Featherstonhaugh. Establishment of State Geological Survey of Tennessee. Jacob Green’s Monograph of the Trilobites of North America. William Maclure’s Geology of the West Indies. Maclure on the Formation of Rocks. T. A. Conrad’s Tertiary of North America. Edward Hitchcock’s survey of Massachusetts. Hitchcock’s views regarding the origin of rocks and of valleys; on the value of fossils for purposes of correlation. His description of overturned folds; controversy relating tothe same. Hitchcock’s description of the flattened pebbles in the conglomerate at Newport, R. I. Sketch of Nicollet. Geological work of J. N. Nicollet in North America. The second American edition of Bakewell’s Geology. Silliman’s views relative to the nature of geological evidence and its consistency with sacred history. Amos Eaton’s notions regarding the Rocky Mountains. Isaac Lea’s Contributions to Geology. T. A. Conrad on the distribution of the Eocene. Organization of the Geological Society of Pennsylvania. William Aiken’s ideas on mountain uplift. Survey of Maryland by J. T. Ducatel and J. H. Alexander. Sketch of Ducatel. Featherstonhaugh’s survey of the country between the Missouri and Red rivers; of the Coteau des Prairies. H. D. Rogers’s geological survey of New Jersey. Rogers’s views on the formation of the gorge at Niagara. Sketch of Rogers. J. G. Percival and the geological survey of Connecticut. Work of S. P. Hildreth in Ohio. Mather’s geological survey of Ohio. Work of 8. P. Hildreth, John Locke, Caleb Briggs, J. W. Foster, and Charles Whittlesey in Ohio. Sketch of W. W. Mather. Mather’s Elements of Geology. Work of John R. Cotting in Georgia. Abraham Gesner’s Geology and Mineralogy of Nova Scotia. Gesner’s views on the drift. Sketch of Gesner. Work of C. U. Shepard
Page.

<<<Page: 221>>>

Page. in Illinois. Work of W. B. Rogers in Virginia. Rogers’s lack of facilities for work. Sketch of W. B. Rogers. State Geological Survey of New York. State Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. The Wilkes Exploring Expedition. C. T. Jackson’s survey of Maine; of Rhode Island. Jackson’s views on the drift. J. C. Booth’s geological survey of Delaware. D. D. Owen’s geological survey of Indiana. Sketch of D. D. Owen. Owen’s survey of Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois. Gesner’s work in New Brunswick. Conrad’s work on the Tertiary. Work of James T. Hodge in southern Atlantic States. Sketch of Conrad. Conrad’s ideas concerning the drift. Views of George E. Hayes. C. T. Jackson’s survey of New Hampshire. Douglass Houghton’s work in Michigan. Sketch of Hough-
ton. CHAPTER IV.
alieP PIG Op Stake ISUTUeYys mSECONd, AeCcade, ISLO-1849) <= Sanna 2 aa ocean o-oo 363
Generalities. Effect of the panic of 1836 upon the establishment of State surveys. Enumeration of workers. Founding of the Smithsonian Institution. Louis Agassiz’s glacial theory. First geological model, by R. C. Taylor. Work of Gerard Troost in Tennessee. Edward Hitchcock on drift phenomena in North America. T. A. Conrad’s work in Florida. D. D. Owen on the geology of the Western States. H. D. and W. B. Rogers on Appalachian structures. Views of Rogers brothers as to the origin of the Appalachians. H. D. Rogers on the formation of coal. W. B. Rogers on thermal springs. J. P. Couthouy on coral growth. W. Byrd Powell’s work in the Fourche Cove region of Arkansas. State Geological Survey of New York. Work of Mather, Emmons, Vanuxem, and Hall. Sketch of James Hall. Hall’s work in Ohio. Hall’s views concerning Niagara. Establishment of the Geological Survey of Canada under W. E. Logan. Issachar Cozzens on the geology of New York. Byrem Lawrence’s Geology of the Western States. Work of Edmund Ruffin and Michael Tuomey in South Carolina. Sketch of Tuomey. J. D. Dana’s views on metamorphism. Edward Hitchcock on the trap tufa of the Connecticut Valley and inclined strata. H. D. Rogers on the atmosphere of the coal period. Lardner Vanuxem on changes in the earth’s atmosphere. Work of C. B. Adams in Vermont. Sketch of Adams. Sketch of Zadock Thompson. Hitcheock’s description of the Richmond bowlder train. W. W. Mather on the physical geology of the United States. Conrad’s Medial Tertiary of North America. Geological observations of David Christy. Explorations in New Mexico by F. A. Wislizenus. Amos Binney’s views on the Loess. Dana on the Geological Results of the Earth’s Contractions. Sketch of J. D. Dana. Views of H. D. and W. B. Rogers on the Richmond bowlder train. Views of J. B. Perry and E. R. Benton on the same. Final report of Michael Tuomey on the geology of South Carolina. Tuomey’s survey of Alabama. F. 8. Holmes on the geology of Charleston and vicinity. Howard Stansbury’s explorations in Utah. Work of D. D. Owen in the Chippewa land district, and in Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota. First description of vertebrate fossils from the Bad Lands. Work of C. T. Jackson in Michigan. Louis Agassiz’s Physical Characters of Lake Superior. Sketch of Agassiz. Work of J. W. Foster and J. DWhitney in Michigan. James Hall’s report on the formations of Lake Superior. His attempt to show the equivalency of the formations of New York with those of Europe. E. Desor on the drift. J. D. Dana and the Wilkes Exploring Expedition. Dana’s views on coral islands; on yuleanology. P. T. Tyson’s work in California. James Higgins’s work in Maryland. P. T. Tyson’s work in Maryland.

<<<Page: 222>>>

TREE CO OfASCALE SS UNOCYS ea LUNG CC COOLE WS DO —1 S59) a ee eee eae 429 Generalities. New workers. Work of John Millington and B. L. C. Wailes in Mississippi. Work of Ebenezer Emmonsin North Carolina. J. G. Norwood’s work in Illinois. Second attempt at geological survey of’ Indiana. G. G. Shumard’s work in region of the Red River of Louisiana. Ideas of O. P. Hubbard and Dana relative to subaerial erosion. John B. Trask’s geological survey of California. G.C. Swallow’s geological survey of Missouri. J. D. Whitney’s Metallic Wealth of the United States; his views relative to silver as a monetary standard. Whitney on the changes in the structure and composition of mineral veins. Work of Lewis Har. per and Eugene W. Hilgard in Mississippi. Work of Edward Daniels in Wisconsin. J. G. Percival’s geological survey of Wisconsin. D. D. Owen’s geological survey of Kentucky. Work of G. G. Shumard in connection with Pope’s expedition along the line of the thirty-second parallel. Oscar M. Lieber’s work in South Carolina; his views regarding mineral veins. First edition of John W. Dawson’s Acadian Geology. Dawson’s work in Nova Scotia. Jules Marcou’s geological map of the United States. Work of Jules Marcou, W. P. Blake, Thomas Antisell, James Schiel, and J.S. Newberry in connection with the Pacific Railroad surveys. Sketch of Thomas Antisell. Work of John Evans in Washington and Oregon. Work of George Gibbs in Washington. G. C. Swallow’s survey of the southwest branch of the Pacific Railroad. J. M. Safford’s work in Tennessee. Richard O. Currey’s Sketch of the Geology of Tennessee. Ebenezer Emmons’s American Geology. William Kitchell’s geological survey of New Jersey. W. H. Emory’s Mexican Boundary Survey. J. P. Lesley’s Manual of Coal; his Iron Manufacturer’s Guide. Edward Hitchcock’s Illustrations of Surface Geology; his Geology of the Globe. J. D. Dana on the Plan of Development of North America. The finding of Paradoxides. Views of Joseph Le Conte on coral growth. James Hall’s geological survey of Iowa. Controversy between Hall and Meek. Hall’s views. regarding the treeless character of the prairies. Work of J. D. Whitney in Iowa. Whitney’s views regarding the origin of the Potsdam sandstone. Edward Hitchcock’s Geology of Vermont; his : views on metamorphism and the origin of the drift. Geological survey of Wisconsin under James Hall, E. 8. Carr, and Edward Daniels. Whitney’s work on the lead-bearing region of Wisconsin. Richard Owen’s Geology of the Globe. William E. Logan’s proposed subdivisions of the Laurentian. The Ives-Newberry expedition up the Colorado River. J. S. Newberry’s views regarding the Grand Canyon of the Colorado; his work with the Macomb expedition. Sketch of Newberry. Work of D. D. Owen and Richard Owen in Arkansas. E. W. Hilgard’s geological survey of Mississippi. The Kansas Permian controversy. 5B. F. Shumard on the Permian of New Mexico. Meek and Hayden on the Triassic in Kansas and Nebraska. B. F. Shumard’s geological survey of Texas. Safford on unconformability in Tennessee. Final reports of H. D. Rogers on the geology of Pennsylvania. Amos H. Worthen’s work in Illinois. J. D. Whitney’s views regarding the origin of the lead ores of the Mississippi Valley. Leo Lesquereux’s paleobotanical work in Illinois. Sketch of Amos H. Worthen. Sketch of Leo Lesquereux. Work of Henry Y. Hind in the Winnipeg country. James Hall’s views on sedimentation and mountain building. Work of Henry Engelmann in Utah.

<<<Page: 223>>>

Page The Era of State Surveys, Fourth decade, 1860-1869. ........---.-------------503
Effect of civil war on State surveys. Literature of the period. New workers. R. Thomassy’s Geologie Pratique de la Louisiane. Alexander Winchell’s workin Michigan. Sketch of Winchell. Work of D. D. Owen and Richard Owen in Indiana. Ideas of W. B. Rogers and Louis Agassiz on subsidence and deposition. Work of Francis Moore and $. B. Buckley in Texas. Appointment of J. W. Glenn, State geologist of Texas. Kdward Hitcheock’s views on the metamorphism of conglomerates. Natural history survey of Maine. First suggestion of a second drift period. J. %. Newberry’s views on glaciation. J. P. Lesley on mountain structure; on uplift and erosion. J. D. Whitney’s geological survey of California. Logan’s Geology of Canada. Sketch of William E. Logan. Work of Alexander Murray and James P. Howley in Newfoundland. J. W. Dawson’s views on glaciation; his address before the Natural History Society of Montreal. Raphael Pumpelly’s work in China. George H. Cook’s survey of New Jersey. Sketch of Cook. Work of B. F. Mudge in Kansas. Sketch of Mudge. G. C. Swallow’s geological survey of Kansas. Sketch of Swallow. N.S. Shaler’s views on continental uplift. Work of C. F. Hartt in Brazil. Work of H. E. Eames in Minnesota. , bugene W. Hilgard’s views on the drift. W.C. Kerr’s geological survey of North Carolina. John L. Le Conte’s work on the Union Pacific Railroad. Charles A. White’s geological survey of lowa. J. M. Safford’s final report on the geology of Tennessee. E. W. Hilgard’s work in Louisiana. Alexander Winchell’s survey of Michigan; work of T. B. Brooks. Sketch of Brooks. Work of Raphael Pumpelly and Carl Rominger. Sketch of Rominger. Newberry’s geological survey of Ohio. The Newberry-Whittlesey controversy. Views of Dr. E. Andrews on the glacial drift. Views of J. S. Newberry on the glacial drift. Edward Orton’s appointment as State geologist of Ohio. Sketch of Orton. Geological survey of Indiana under E. 8. Cox. Geological survey of Canada under Selwyn.
The Era of National Surveys or Fifth era of State Surveys, 1870-187G ......----551
Effect of the civil war on western exploration. New expeditions and new workers. Work of George Little in Georgia. Work of John Murrish in Wisconsin. O. C. Marsh’s first expedition into the West. Albert Hager’s work in Missouri. Geological survey of Missouri under Raphael Pumpelly. Views of George Catlin on geology. F. V. Hopkins on the geology of Louisiana. Joseph Le Conte’s ideas on mountain making; on continental uplift. Sketch of Le Conte. E. W. Hilgard’s work at Petite Anse, Louisiana. W. C. Kerr on effect of earth’s rotation. Kerr’s work in North Carolina. Sketch of Kerr. Eugene A. Smith’s work in Alabama. Second geological survey of Kentucky. J. W. Powell’s exploration of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado. J. P. Lesley on origin of iron ores and on denudation. Work of N. H. Winchell, Henry Newton, and W. P. Jenny in the Black Hills. Petrographic work of J. H. Caswell. I. A. Lapham’s geological work in Wisconsin. T. C. Chamberlin’s survey of Wisconsin. R. D. Irving’s work in Wisconsin. Third edition of J. W. Dawson’s Acadian Geology. Sketch of Dawson. J. D. Whitney’s Auriferous Gravels. Whitney’s Climatic Changes.. Second geological survey of Pennsylvania. Work of I. C. White, J. J. Stevenson, and KE. W. Claypole on Pennsylvaniasurvey. Sketch ofJ.P. Lesley. Work

<<<Page: 224>>>

of F. V. Hayden and F. B. Meek in the Bad Lands. Meek’s section of the Cretaceous. Hayden’s work on the upper Missouri; with G. K. Warren in the Sioux country, and in the Black Hills. Work of Meek and Hayden in Kansas. Hayden with the Raynolds expedition to the headwaters of the Missouri. Summary of Hayden’s early work. Hayden’s second expedition to the Bad Lands. United States geological and geographical surveys under F. V. Hayden. Work of Hayden survey in Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, and New Mexico; in Wyoming and contiguous territories; in Montana and the Yellowstone National Park; in Montana; in Colorado; in Wyoming and the Yellowstone Park. Sketchof F. V. Hayden. Sketch of F. B. Meek. The Fortieth Parallel Survey under Clarence King. Sketch of King. Surveys West of the One Hundredth Meridian under Lieut. George M. Wheeler. G. K. Gilbert’s work in the Great Basin. Work of A. R. Marvine, E. E. Howell, and J. J. Stevenson with the Wheeler survey. United States geological and geographical surveys under J. W. Powell. Powell’s geology of the Uinta Mountains. C. E. Dutton’s work on the high plateaus of Utah. G. K. Gilbert’s work in the Henry Mountains. Sketch of Powell. Consolidation of all the national geological surveys.
Hossil, Footprints of the Connechicul Valley<_ cn asetee = abe eee eee Announcement by Edward Hitchcock of first discovery by Dexter Marsh and James Deane; supposed bird nature of; comparison of tracks with those of New Zealand dinornis; views of foreign geologists relative to; Doctor Deane’s first publication on; discovery by Pliny Moody, of South Hadley; suggestion as to saurian nature of; suggestion by Doctor Deane as to batrachian nature of; Edward Hitchcock’s catalogue of track-making animals. Discovery of footprints in Carboniferous sandstone in Pennsylvania. James Deane’s recognition of reptilian footprints. Edward Hitchcock’s Ichnology of New England. Hitchcock’s announcement of the quadrupedal nature of footprints. The views of Roswell Field, of Greenfield, Mass. Finding of Anchisaurus colurus. Sketch of Dr. James Deane.
OZOON OwuesiOnin ee soins e we a Setar ee ee ae
First announcement by William Logan of fossils in Laurentian rocks. Views of J.W. Dawson and W. B. Carpenter onthe same. Work of William King and T. H. Rowney on Eozoon. Carpenter’s reply to views of King and Rowney. Discovery of supposed Eozoon in the Azoic limestone of Bavaria, by F. von Hochstetter, and in the Hercynian gneisses, by Giimbel. William Logan’s announcement of the finding of Eozoon remains in the township of Tudor, Canada. Announcement by King and Rowney of the finding of Eozoonal structures in the serpentine marble of Skye. Views of Max Schultze and H. J. Carter. W. B. Carpenter’s reply to the views of Carter. Views of Carl Moebius, and Dawson’s reply thereto. Studies of Burbank and Perry on the Eozoonal limestone in Massachusetts. Views of T. G. Bonney. Work of J. W. Gregory and H. J. Johnston-Layis. Concluding remarks.
Loramie Question < 2225-ke 2 aces oe eee eee ee eee
First statement of the Laramie problem, by F. V. Hayden. Work of Leo Lesquereux, F. B. Meek, and E. D. Cope in 1872. Views of Lesqueveux and Cope in 1873. Viewsof Clarence King. ViewsofJ.8. Newberry
Page.

<<<Page: 225>>>

and J. J. Stevenson in 1874. Leo Lesquereux’s reply to Newberry’s criticism. F. V. Hayden’s summary in 1875. A.C. Peale’s views. Views of C. A. White in 1877. Views of Hayden in 1878. Viewsof Clarence King in 1878. L. F. Ward’s Flora of the Laramie Group in 1885. Studies of }. A. White and T. W. Stanton in 1891; of F. H. Knowlton and T. W. Stanton in 1897. CHAPTER XI. ECMO CONICIO ILEStLO Neer e Me are eet ee ee IA Se. Meee ok oe ae First statement of the problem by Ebenezer Emmons. + Studies by H. D. Rogers and James Hall. Review of the subject by Emmons, 1842-1844. Announcement of the finding of fossil crustaceans (trilobites) in the Black slate of Bald Mountain. Views of C. B. Adams in 1847. Report of committee on Taconic question in 1848. Hall’s views on report of committee. Views of T. Sterry Hunt in 1849. Emmons’s third presentation of subject in 1855. Finding of trilobites in the Black slates of West Georgia, Vt. Views of Elkanah Billings and Barrande. Writings of Jules Marcou. Views of Edward Hitchcock and A. D. Hager. Views of J. B. Perry in 1869. Workof Rey. A. Wing in 1870. Views of Elkanah Billings in 1872. Reply by Dana to Billings’s statements. Dana’s articles in the American Journal of Science. Finding of brachiopods in Taconic, slates at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., by T. Nelson Dale. James Hall’s views in 1884. Dana’s views, 1885-1887. Work of C. D. Walcott in 1886. Discussion of the subject at the eighth meeting of the American Committee of the International Geological Congress in 1888. Conclusion. SSL OVRE GIG ALR, Spl el, ee Sa pe ee ee a a Tables showing the general development of the geological column, as given in the principal text-books. GSE US ICITTO TET 6, 5B EO cy Ae a SP Se a OE A A Brief biographical sketches of the principal workers in -American
geology.
Page.

<<<Page: 226>>>



<<<Page: 227>>>

Page.
. Maclure’s Geological Map of the United States. Reduced from original
in Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, VI, Pt. 2, WOKEN 3S oo Gel aoc oe ae EI Cae ene, a Frontispiece.
. Portrait of Benjamin Silliman, professor of chemistry, Yale College. From a steel engraving by W. G. Jackman (D. Appleton &’Co.)...........-215
. Portrait of William Maclure, president of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. (After T. Sully.) Engraved by D. C. Hinman ..-.. 218
. Portrait of Parker Cleaveland, professor of chemistry and mineralogy, Bowdoin College. (After T. Badger.) Engraved by J. C. Buttre ._--226
. Maclure’s Section across the Appalachians (colored). Reduced from original in Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, 1818.... 228
. Portrait of Amos Eaton, professor of natural science, Rensselaer Polytech-
nic Institute. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, PROMS PS ae ee Oe eae eee oe Sk Ba oa 234
. Eaton’s Geological Segments. From Index to Geology of Northern baie eel 22 () ie Seek A eeepc eet, CREE Ee Ne One es Sy AES 251
. Portrait of Ebenezer Emmons, State geologist of North Carolina. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLVIII, 1896 ....._--281
. Portrait of Gerard Troost, State geologist of Tennessee. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLV, 1894.............------283
. Portrait of Samuel George Morton, physician and paleontologist. From tO SEU VIL Gas poy Shoat) ines eel 5 = SK ee es aes Be a gd) he Sg 288
. Portrait of Charles Thomas Jackson, State geologist of Maine, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island. Redrawn from a woodcut by C. Weber -.--290
Portrait of Lardner Vanuxem, geologist of New York State survey. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLVI, 1895 .........-292
Portrait of Edward Hitchcock, professor of geology, Amherst College. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLVII, 1895.... 307
Portrait of Henry Darwin Rogers, State geologist of Pennsylvania. From
a steel engraving by L. 8. Punderson, in Annual of Scientific Discovery, ESTO s aehce cae al stan a ater AM es eee el ey SR EY llega A ld cee 328
. Portrait of William Williams Mather, geologist of New York State survey. From a wood engraving in Popular Science Monthly, XLIX, 1896 ..... 333
. Portrait of William Barton Rogers, State geologist of Virginia. From a steel engraving by H. W. Smith, in Annual of Scientific Discovery, 1868. 341
. Portrait of Timothy Abbott Conrad, paleontologist. From a wood engravingin Eopular Science Monthly, XVII, 1895.2. -..22.-224.2222 22628 344
. Portrait of David Dale Owen, geologist. Redrawn from woodcut in Report on Geology of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota..---.---------350
. Owen’s Geological Sections (colored). Reduced from original in Report of Geological Reconnaissance of Chippewa Land District.........-.-----351

<<<Page: 228>>>

Portrait of James Hall, State geologist of New York. From a photograph taken tn T8902 Sesto. sete cose cans ch nee Oe eee ae eae
. Portrait of James Dwight Dana, professor of geology, Yale College. From
‘aa photography... coo, cseece Secs ayaa te eee ae eee ee eee
. River terraces and drift bowlders in Massachusetts. From Hitcheock’s
liustrationsiotSuntacerGeoloo yar Sp ae ae ee eee
. Portrait of John Strong Newberry, professor of geology, Columbia Col-
lege, and State geologist of Ohio. From a steel engraying.-...---.----
. Portrait of Alexander Winchell, professor of geology and paleontology,
University of Michigan, and State geologist of Michigan. From a steel engraving in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, III, 1891---
25. Members of the geological survey of California, 1860. From a photograph. 26. YURI of James Richardson, Alexander Murray, and Sir William Logan.
: Portrait of Gennes Hammell Cook, State geologist of New Jersey. Hrom
asphotographetakenvabouly [Sidhe sesso eee ee ee eee eee eee eee
. Portrait of Edward Orton, professor of geology, Ohio State University,
and State geologist of Ohio. From a steel engraving -......-.--------
29. Portrait of Sir William Dawson, principal of MeGill University. From
aphtotoorajp lees. 2c ese sierra ere ee eee
. Hayden field party at La Veta Pass, August, 1877. From a photograph. . Portrait of Ferdinand Vandiveer Hayden, director of U.S. geological sur-
vey of the Territories. From a photograph taken about 1876_....-----
2: Portrait of Wleboney Bradford Meek, paleontologist. From a photograph
3. Portrait a Gtice King, director of U. 8. geological explorations of
fontietheparallll els Hira rman polio to oreo Ios eee ea
. Portrait of John Wesley Powell, director of U. 8S. geographical and geo-
logical survey of the Rocky Mountain regions. From a photograph. --
. The Moody Footmark Quarry, South Hadley, Mass. From Hitchcock’s
lichnolooyzoiNewebinolam a Si Cie eee ee The Appleton Cabinet. From Hitchcock’s Ichnology of New England, 1858
. Portrait of Sir William Logan, director of the geological survey of Canada. gan, s s i
Fromca photoorapl jy 42 e2 shee ee en ne eee eee
1. Portrait of Archibald Bruce. From American Journal of Science, I, 1819---
. Portrait of Samuel Luther Dana. From a wood engraving in Popular
SciencesMonthily; UDX. W896 5s co ee a a ee ee ee ere
3. Portrait of Samuel Latham Mitchill. From a steel engraving by Gimber
SUTIN DD Ge la a a a Sar eee 4.. Map to illustrate Mitchill’s theory of barmerss 2-2-5. 25-2405 e eee 5. A geological transverse section, extending from Catskill Mountain to the
Atlantic. From Eaton’s Index to Geology of the Northern States, 18186. Portrait of Henry Rowe Schoolcraft. From a steel engraving by Illman
(CASO pew aae sos SES SOE et Ree COMO e oss BS boe eae 7. Map showing Schooleraft’s route in 1820 Setaieys. Be eee eit cie Gee ae eee 8 Map of Schooleraitisitravels ingle 2a eee eee eee eee ae 9. Schooleraft’s Section of Presque Isle. (Original colored.) From Narrative
Journal of Travels, U820t2-85.2. eee eee ee ae eee eee

<<<Page: 229>>>

15. 16.
40. 41.
. Map of Long’s expeditions, 1819-20. From an account of an Expedition
IPO MeEThis DUnSSLOMvOcky, MountalNns a= 95 2=on see ee eee oes oe
. Geological Sections from the Allegheny to the Rocky Mountains. (After
tdwin James.) From report of Long’s expedition, 1819-20.........--
2. Portrait of Horace H. Hayden. From a painting, by permission of Mary-
envel ee@lkerea (en MEW AVE heels oo oe eo Boo See ORES Een Soe oer eeeae
. Portrait of Thomas Cooper at age of 70. From a steel engraving by
FAVES Se CLT cL CLP ef ene eee ee oR eee ee Ce IR RES dace ht ee
. Supposed human footprints in limestone. (After D. D. Owen.) From
AMericanisournalvot SCleEnCe, Nelo lMn S42 ee se es ee Portrait of Denison Olmsted. From a steel engraving by A. H. RitchieMap showing Routes of Long’s expedition of 1823. From Narrative of
an Expedition to the Source of St. Peters River .----......-.--...----
. Sections of Snake Hill, Saratoga Lake. (After J. H. Steel.) From Amer-
LCAMFIOUrMA Ot SCleN CC W82)) aoe eee ase ee Bae ee Se ee
. Portrait of Elisha Mitchell. From a steel engraving ............-..----. Eaton’s Transverse Sections of the Globe. From Geological Text-Book,
LCP See eke Ot ery SIONS GCI TOS gah ot SLES SSI ee ee ee
. Portrait of George William Featherstonhaugh. From American Geol-
Gets eV oNa We toh ee ae eA 2 eee ee ease we ee Be ee Beets eras SE ies Pe
. Portrait of Jacob Green. From a steel engraving ...............-------. Folded axes. (After Edward Hitchcock.) From Final Report on Geology
OW MLGRE YO EIA AUIS AVS ee Se ees ge ee ee ee oe eee eee
. Portrait of Isaac Lea. From a steel engraving in the Annual of Scientific
DISCOV ET el S00 Srey = ele ee aera eee eeeetae se tego csine ates
. Portrait of Julius Timoleon Ducatel. From a painting, by permission of
Ney inndicca opie sunVvieye = ee alee te etre) shod once hale Sele ok
. Portrait of James Gates Percival. From an engraving ..............---. Portrait of Samuel Prescott Hildreth. From a photograph.---Reps Aer . Page from Mather’s Elements of Geology for the use of schools, 1833.
(ORe produced exacisize iene oe. ose eee see clk ee See kek
. Portrait of Abraham Gesner. From an engraving in Bulletin XIV, Natural
Bsterysocietyool New: Brunswick, 1896). 22-09 22 ee ccs bes
. Portrait of Charles Upham Shepard. From a lithograph by Engelbach. . Portrait of James Curtis Booth. From a photograph taken in 1876 . Portrait of Bela Hubbard. From an engraving in Magazine of Western
LEWISTON YE SET RS ee PES Re oe een, eS Se
. General section across the Western States. (After D. D. Owen.) From
Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, 1846......-..--
. Portrait of James Hall. From a daguerreotype taken in 1843..........-. Profile of the Island of New York. (After Issachar Cozzens.) From Geo-
logical History of Manhattan Island, 1843. (Original colored) .....---
. Portrait of Michael Tuomey. From a photograph taken about 1857-----. Portrait of Charles Baker Adams. From an enlarged engraving in Amer-
TCANEG COLOMISLAPNONONCL Lal GG se a eeee nt aer eye a are es S1yee eiene See hoes
. Ideal section of the crust of the earth. (After C. B. Adams.) From First
Annial eport:Geologist.of Vermont) (845-22. a2 5-52.26 ons oes
. Portrait of Zadock Thompson. From a steel engraving by J. C. Buttre--. Richmond bowlder train. (After E. Hitchcock.) From American Journal
OLS CEN CEANONGNGIONS | SAH neem eaten ea eee es J tee ha eee er Portrait of Frederick Adolphus Wislizenus. From a photograph. -----Portrait of James Dwight Dana. From a lithograph by R. Hoffman, 1857...

<<<Page: 230>>>

or or ore Om ~I SO
OH we)
. Portrait of John Wells Foster. From a steel engraving . Portrait of Philip Thomas Tyson. From a painting, by permission of
93. Map showing routes of Marcy and Shumard, 1849-52 . Portrait of Oliver Payson Hubbard. From a photograph . Portrait of John Boardman Trask. From a photograph . Portrait of Garland Carr Broadhead. From a photograph . Portrait of Oscar Montgomery Lieber. From a photograph .--.-...----. Portrait of Jules Marcou. From a photograph . Map showing principal routes of exploring parties in connection with
. Portrait of William Phipps Blake. From a photograph . Portrait of Thomas Antisell. From a photograph 2. Portrait of George Gibbs. From a photograph . Portrait of James Merrill Safford. From a photograph . Section from the Cumberland to eastern base of Lookout Mountain.
. Paradoxides harlani. From a photograph of one of Green’s casts . Portrait of Richard Owen. From a wood engraving in Popular Science
. Portrait of Raphael Pumpelly. From a photograph 76. Portrait of Benjamin Franklin Mudge. From a photograph...-.---.-----
Sketch map of Richmond bowlder train. (After E. R. Benton.) From Bulletin of Museum of Comparative Zoology, V, 1878
. Portrait of John Bulkley Perry. From an engraving by H. W. Smith.-.-. Map showing Stansbury’s routes in 1849-50 5. Map of areas surveyed by D. D. Owen in Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois in
1839, and the Chippewa land district in 1847
3. Owen’s geological sections across Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois. From
Report of Geological Exploration of Part of Iowa, Wisconsin, and IIlinois, 1839, pl. 1
. Trap dikes on Lake Superior. (After D. D. Owen.) From Report of Geo-
logical Survey of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota, 1852
. Map showing area surveyed by Jackson, and Foster and Whitney, 1847-
9. Portrait of Louis Agassiz. From a steel engraving by C. H. Jeens in
Nature, April, 1879
Maryland geological survey
. Portrait of Joseph Granville Norwood, aged 67 vears. From a photo-
PTA DE A wher Cee nee eee EL ale eee oo hee eee Se ae rae ee ee
Racitic railroad ssurvey spe sso soo soe eee eee ee ae
(After J. M. Safford.) From a Geological Reconnaissance of Tennessee, Otol 579 Saea a ete Ea pap Ak aE eee Pe PL NE fey he So BS Oy Su oat ey See
Monthly, LI, 1897
. Map showing routes traversed by Newberry with Lieutenant Ives and
Captain: Macomb iiSb7=09 oes 6 eae Nee eae ae reee ae ae nee ae eer
. Portrait of Eugene Waldemar Hilgard. From a photograph taken Janu-
ary, 1875
9. Portrait of Benjamin Franklin Shumard. From an engraving in Amer-
ican Geologist, IV, 188
. Portrait of Amos Henry Worthen. From a photograph taken about 1863. Portrait of Leo Lesquereux. From a photograph taken in May, 1872 .--2. Portrait of Henry Engelmann. From a photograph 3. Portrait of Charles Henry Hitchcock. From a photograph taken about
. Portrait of Thomas Sterry Hunt. From an engraving in American Geol-
ogist, XI, 1893

<<<Page: 231>>>

102. 103.
104. 105.
106. 107. 108. 109. 110. 11. 112.
118.
. Portrait of George Clinton Swallow. From an engraving in American
evo Olkoventstis OI 2 ce rae aoe oe a a Portrait of Charles Frederick Hartt. From a photograph ............--
. Portraits of Charles Abiather White, Rush Emery, and Orestes St. John.
Hrom mp TOlortapnrtakenam SHO. 222520 4s = $5.5 Sh odee se ek wg
. Portrait of Thomas Brooks Brooks. From a photograph....-....-...-. Portrait of Carl Rominger. From a photograph taken about 1879___..-. Portrait of Charles Whittlesey. From a photograph taken in December,
LS Ope ee Nae eee ate Oe ate oe ae yea a eta ere eels oe a eer sth
. Portrait of Edward Travers Cox. From a photograph..............-.-. Portrait of Alfred Richard Cecil Selwyn. From a photograph.....----. Portrait of George Little. From a photograph:...............---..---. RLontiralton Johny Viaierishas lhronwvarplhotoprapliee 2.55522 ee sos.) 5 see. . Portrait of Othniel Charles Marsh. From a photograph ............--. Portrait of Joseph Le Conte. From a photograph ..................---
Portrait of Washington Caruthers Kerr. From a photograph.-......--Portrait of Eugene Allen Smith. From a photograph...............---
. Portrait of John Wesley Powell. From a photograph .............-.-. Ideal cross section of the Black Hills. (After Henry Newton.) From
Report of Geology and Resources of the Black Hills of Dakota, 1880 --
. Portrait of Increase Allen Lapham. From a photograph taken in 1866-. Portrait of Thomas Crowder Chamberlin. From a photograph taken in
. Portrait of Roland Duer Irving. From an engraving in American Geolo-
TIS RH PEC EE tase ote Niece Eee lc esas OR COS RPE EE cee Lge mee ee ee
}. Portrait of J. Peter Lesley. From a photograph. ......22...-.2.2.2.2 . Map showing routes of Raynolds’s expedition in 1859-60, and area cov-
Sredmoy aly deny mre DOL ees Seeet St wee Tees eal
. Portrait of Edward Drinker Cope, with a skull of Loxolophodon cornutus.
From a photograph ---ena fee Kees) cise See. kee MS
. Portrait of Fielding Bradford Meek. From a photograph by Julius Ulke,
1 (lo as i US ras gk Re a Re ge OA Te a aN See ete Le
. Portrait of Frank Howe Bradley. From a photograph.....-........--101.
Portrait of Joseph Leidy. From an engraving in American Geologist,
TO INOS 1s a So ea One ee een ne BADER a a yey Sera eee Portrait of Frederic Miller Endlich. From a photograph .........-.--Inverted beds of Jackass Creek. (After A. C. Peale.) From U. S. Geo-
logical sunvey ol. Montana 18/24 essa soes aoe bane ees eelaces bee Portrait of Albert Charles Peale. From a photograph taken in 1872 .__Portrait of Archibald Robertson Marvine. From a photograph taken in
Sections across the Sierra La Sal. (After A. C. Peale.) From Report U.S. Geological and Geographical Survey, 1875 .................---Sections across the Sierra E] Late. (After W. H. Holmes.) From Report U. 8. Geological and Geographical Survey, 1875 ............--....--Portrait of William Henry Holmes. From a photograph taken about
Showing areas surveyed and mapped by the Hayden Surveys, 1870-78 -Portrait of Robert Parr Whitfield. From a photograph..........--.--Map showing area covered by the Fortieth Parallel Survey ........----Portraits of Arnold Hague, Clarence King, and Samuel Franklin
ONS: MOL ROMP an MOLImFAD Ms: seca spoke ae Ue Th ci Portrait of Grove Karl Gilbert. From a photograph taken about 1874...
Page.
600 601 602 603 604 609
612 616

<<<Page: 232>>>

115 116
bo bo
124.
125.
131.
132.
133.
oo bo
. Section of the Pahranagat range at Silver Canyon. (After G. K. Gilbert. ) From Geological Survey West of One Hundredth Meridian, III, 1875_-
. Portrait of Edwin Eugene Howell. From a photograph taken about 1875. . Portrait of John James Stevenson. From a photograph.-.-.....--..---Map showing area surveyed and mapped by the Powell survey, 1875-80 . Portrait of Clarence Edward Dutton. From a photograph.-......---..Laccoliths. (After G. K. Gilbert.) From Geology of Henry Mountains, bella, USAT (js a Se Ge ha Seas eS he ey eae eae ie sae Packinontl oun sin neces Seen ssa sie See eo a eee Fossil footprints. (After Edward Hitchcock.) From American Journal OFISGIEM Ces ASB Genes eh SEES Sted ts dN Portrait of James Deane. From a photograph.........2...-.....-----Skeleton of Anchisaurus colurus Marsh. From American Journal of Sciences NOE Vi S98 este ae aes see ee cee ee ee Supposed fossil from Laurentian limestone. (After W. E. Logan.) From Geology ofCanadayd863 3: 5. 2siSee Se he eee ees ee re Small weathered specimens of HKozoon canadense. (After J. W. Dawson. ) Krom Chamyotslintenmn™ Geo) osica] slime assy ee
. Magnified group of canals in supplemental skeleton of Kozoon. (After J. W. Dawson.) From Chain of Life in Geological Time....-.......-
7. Portion of Eozoon magnified 100 diameters, showing the original cell
wall, with tubulation. (After W. B. Carpenter in Dawson’s Chain of hitetine GeologicaliRime) 22 ase s5 a4 2 aan ee eee ee eee . Magnified and restored section of a portion of Hozoon canadense. (After J. W. Dawson.) From Chain of Life in Geological Time...........-. Diagram of Eozoonal rock at Cote St. Pierre. (After T. G. Bonney. ) HromiGeologicale Maca zines Ile sl peeps rape ae ee . Map of original Taconic area. (After Ebenezer Emmons)..-.----.----Section of Taconic rocks. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of New
Sections explanatory of the Taconic system. (After KE. Emmons.) From Natural EhistonysoteNew. Yorks Pte 4s eee oe eee Atops trilineatus. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of New York, I, 10) Ee Gi eee” ope ee ee Se es Re ewes Sed ye eee es eda ok aoe . Elliptocephala asaphoides. (After E. Emmons.) From Agriculture of New Work jul. oli mix bo yee Sarees See See te > SE eee epee re
5. Triarthrus beckii and eatoni. (After James Hall.) From American Jour-
nalrot Sciences OXON NIS M3738 sans al eels ae ee er . Olenus thompsoni. (After James Hall.) From Tenth Annual Report Regents of the University of State of New York, 1857 .......---------
137. Olenus vermontana. (After James Hall.) From Tenth Annual Report Regents of University of State of New Y¥ ork 22-22. 2-2 2eon se eee 138. Portrait of Elkanah Billings. From a photograph --.---oats ue eee pee
139 140
. Portrait of Charles Doolittle Walcott. From a photograph taken in 1891. . Tabular view of Taconic strata as arranged by E. Emmons. (After ©. D. Walcott.) From American Journal of Science, XX XV, April, 1888 -. Section of Bald Mountain from the south. (After C. D. Walcott.) From American’ Jourmallot Science XOXO VenlS88 seer eee ee ee eee eee eee
Page

<<<Page: 233>>>

CCA Feo, THE MACLUREAN ERA, 1785-1819.
In order that one may fully appreciate the conditions under which the early workers in geology in America labored, it is necessary to refer somewhat briefly to foreign workers and the general condition of the science at the time this history opens. A detailed statement is presumably unnecessary, the subject having been well covered by Lyell,“ Geikie,’ and Zittel.¢
The literature extant at that time was not large, and was, moreover, for the most part quite inaccessible to the average American student. Libraries were few. small, and far between, and the workers, as a rule, men of moderate means who studied geology as a recreation or when the cares of their professions permitted.
Disregarding the cosmogonists—those who, to use a popular expression, did not allow what few facts they may have possessed to seriously hamper the flights of their imaginations—mention should be made of the writings of the French geologist, Giittard; during the period 1746-1765. Giittard studied the now well-known region of the Auvergne in central France, recognized the volcanic nature of the phenomena there displayed, and, though he fell into error when he attributed their origin to the combustion of petroleum or bitumen, he may, nevertheless, according to Doctor Geikie, be regarded as the founder of volcanic geology. Singularly enough, as it seems to-day, he failed to recognize the connection between volcanoes and basalt, and attributed the latter to crystallization from an aqueous solution. Giittard’s papers were for many years lost sight of, but their value and interest have of late been made apparent by the author above quoted. Desmarest, who followed Giittard, corrected this error in his memoir on basalt, which appeared in 1774.
The geological results obtained by the Russian astronomical expedition under Pallas, in 1769, though important, could, for a long time at least, have had little effect on American workers, and then only through the writings of others. They were first published at St. Petersburg in German (1772-1776) and afterwards translated into French. Pallas taught, among other things, that a granite core was a
“ Principles of Geology. > The Founders of Geology. ¢ History of Geology and Paleontology. 207

<<<Page: 234>>>

constituent of all mountain ranges, and that the remains of the mammoth and other large animals found in Siberia and the Arctics were transported thence by floods from the region of the equator. This last idea, it will be noted, took firm hold on at least one of our American authors.
During 1779-1796 the Swiss naturalist, De Saussure, had put out three quarto volumes giving the results of his observations in the Alps, and Lehman and Fuchsel, during 1756-1770, had published important matter relative to the order of superposition of rocks. Fuchsel, unfortunately, wrote wholly in Latin, and though his observations were important they created little impression.
The two most prominent figures, and those whose views undoubtedly prevailed over all others, were the German, Werner, and the Englishman, Hutton. Indeed, our history opens in the very midst of a controversy between these two and their followers—between those who believed with Werner that the various rocks of the earth’s crust were the result of a gradual precipitation from the waters of a universal ocean and who were not inaptly called Veptunests, and those who recognized the efficacy of igneous agencies and were therefore called Plutonists.
It is, of course, impossible to state in the majority of cases whence any writer may have drawn his inferences or inspiration. We may know the literature of any given period, but we have no means of knowing whether or not it was accessible to a writer or, indeed, if he was aware of its existence. Discoveries in science, like inventions, are rarely or never the work of a single brain, but are matters of growth. Such result from the gradual accumulation of facts or ideas, often seemingly wholly disconnected, but which some master mind takes at the proper time and molds to his uses.
What is commonly regarded as the first work on American geology was Johann David Schépf’s Bettrage zur Mineralogischen Kenntniss von des O¢estlichen Theils von Nord Amerika und seine Gebirge, pabseca beeen lished in 1isv, Schépf came to America as a surgeon American Gesoe ya ai0 the Hessian troops during the war of the Revolu-
tion, and immediately after the treaty of peace in 1783 made a tour throughout the Eastern States as far south as Florida.
As a foreigner, whose results were published in Germany, Schépt’s work lies outside the limits of the present history. It may be said, however, that he noted the close similarity throughout all its parts of the flat lands (coastal plain) extending from the western end of Long Island to Florida, and that this was marked off from the hilly region to the northwest by a double series of waterfalls in all the rivers emptying into the Atlantic. Thus early was recognized the ‘‘fall line” as a physiographic feature of the American continent.

<<<Page: 235>>>

There are several brief papers of a mineralogical nature of an earlier date than Schépf’s. which may be mentioned. Thus, in the Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences for 1785 are to be pe eat found the following titles: . oy American Academy, — An Account of the Oilstone found at Salisbury, by
Samuel Webster; Yellow and Red Pigment, An account of, Found at Norton, by Samuel Deane; An Account of Several Strata of Earth and Shells on the Banks of the York River, Virginia, by Benjamin Lincoln; and Fossil Substance containing Vitriol and Sulphur, An Account of large quantities of, found at Lebanon, New Hampshire, by Jeremy Belknap.
Of more importance are two papers by David Jones and Caleb Alexander regarding the supposed volcanic nature of West River Mountain in Connecticut. Jones described in some detail the appearance of the mountain and the efforts of the natives, or peasants, as he called them, to discover thereon the gold which they imagined had been melted down to a solid body by the extreme heat of the eruption. The rock comprising the mountain was described as in many places much burned, softened, and dissolved by heat, with cinders and melted drops adhering and hanging down like small icicles, somewhat resembling in color the cinders of a furnace or black glass. While convinced that there had been volcanic explosions in the mountain, he regarded such as having taken place at least fifty years earlier, while the volcano itself, he thought, could not have been active perhaps ‘* within the present nor past century.”
Alexander wrote much more confidently:
Supposed Volcano in Connecticut.
Once in winter there was an eruption. The years when the preceding eruptions happened I can not inform; the last was twenty-seven years since, which was the most violent eruption ever known in that place. It was toward the close of a dark evening when it was first perceived, being preceded by a louder noise than common; then directly was seen the fire, which was seen to burn for several hours.
After describing in some detail the appearance of the rock in the immediate vicinity of the spot from which the fire was supposed to have issued, Alexander went on to say:
I am not able to determine whether there be anything of a sulphurous nature on this mountain, but this I dare aftirm, that there haye been several eruptions, but whether it may with propriety be called a voleano I know not. This determination is submitted to the judgment of gentlemen more acquainted with the nature of volcanoes than I can pretend to be.
In view of the definite nature of these statements, it may be well to anticipate, and to state here that in 1810 Col. George Gibbs visited the mountain, attracted by the published reports, and made known the results of his observations in Bruce’s Mineralogical Journal. He found no trace whatever of any eruption nor other signs of volcanic activity, the ‘‘lava” reported proving to be hematite, an oxide of iron.
NAT Mus 1904——14

<<<Page: 236>>>

A paper by Robert McCauslin, read before the American Philosoph-
ical Society of Philadelphia in 1789 and published in 1793, conveys a
good idea of the crude condition of analytical chemCondition of 5 : Analytical istry at that date and enables one to well appreciate Chemistry in 1789. ee 4 . . c
the difficulties under which the mineralogists labored. In describing a ‘* mineral substance” found near the falls of Niagara, he wrote:
In order to determine the nature of this substance, I made the following experiments:
Exp. Ist. I put an opaque piece, weighting fourteen grains, into the vitriolic acid diluted with three times its quantity of water, and let it remain there twenty-four hours, shaking it now and then. Not the least effervescence ensued, and on taking out the piece it weighed near one grain more than when it ‘was put in, although care was taken to absorb the moisture which was upon its surface. This experiment was repeated with a shining piece, and with exactly the same result.
Exp. 2nd. When put into vinegar it did not produce the least effervescence. The vinegar having stood upon it for sometime, it was then poured off and spirit of vitriol dropped into it, yet not the least precipitation ensued.
That I might not be Jed into error by the vinegar not being good of its kind, I repeated these experiments with chalk; and as both effervescence and precipitation took place it was evident there was no defect in the vinegar.
Exp. 3rd. A small piece was exposed to the heat of a blacksmith’s forge during fifteen hours. Upon taking it out and pouring water upon it no ebullition ensued; nevertheless it tasted like weak limewater; being then divided into two portions, a solution of mild fixed alkali was dropped into the first, and immediately a precipitation ensued. The second portion being exposed to the air in a tea cup soon contracted a changeable film, which next morning was become very thick, resembling in every respect that of limewater.
Exp. 4th. Hot water being poured on some of this substance reduced to powder and the whole suffered to settle, the clear liquor had not the taste of limewater as in the 3rd experiment; nevertheless a solution of mild fixed alkali being dropped into it as copious a precipitation ensued as when the earth had undergone calcination.
As I had neither the nitrous nor muriatic acids, nor even caustic fixed alkali, I had it not in my power to make any trials with them.
From these experiments we may perhaps be authorized to draw the following conclusions:
Ist. That this concrete is not an alkaline earth, as it is not affected either by the vitriolic or the vegetable acids.
2ndly. We may with more probability say that it is a combination of an acid with a calcareous earth, and that it might with propriety be ranked amongst the selenites. This supposition is founded on the following reasons: First, it appears from the fourth experiment that it is practically soluble in water, and that its earth can be precipitated by a mild fixed alkali; secondly, the third experiment shews evidently that its earth is of the calcareous kind, as appears by the styptic taste and changeablecolored film, agreeing exactly with common limewater. It seems probable that the vehemence of the fire had in part expelled the acid, leaving a portion of the mass in the state of quicklime.
Of more direct geological bearing is a letter from Benjamin De Witt to the Philadelphia Academy, printed in the second volume (1793)

<<<Page: 237>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—MACLUREAN ERA, 1785—1819. 9 Jay
of their Transactions. He mentioned the occurrence of iron ore, gypsum, calcareous petrifactions, red, slaty stones, soft clay, a white . fossil substance, rock crystal, a curious annular stone,
the Date oe and sixty-four specimens of some varieties of stone found on the shore of Lake Ontario. Discussing this
last occurrence, he wrote:
Now, it is almost impossible to believe that so great a variety of stones should be naturally formed in one place and of the same species of earth. They must, therefore, have been conveyed there by some extraordinary means. I am inclined to believe that this may have been effected by some mighty convulsion of nature, such as an earthquake or eruption; and perhaps this vast lake may be considered as one of those great fountains of the deep which were broken up when our earth was deluged with water, thereby producing that confusion and disorder in the composition of its surface which evidently seems to exist.
So far as Tam aware, this is the first recognition of or attempt to account for the glacial drift, although its glacial character was of course undreamed of.
It is perhaps not strange that, with the cosmogonists not yet fully out of the field, the ‘‘many-sided” Franklin should have indulged in theories relative to the earth’s history, nor that such were, at the time,
thought worthy of consideration. In 1788, in a letter
Reniamin tas, "> to the Abbé Soulavie, he suggested that the earth may
not be solid to the core, but that the outer portion or shell is floating, as it were, on an internal fluid more dense than any solids of which we have knowledge. He was led to this view from seeing at the base of one of the Derbyshire, England, mountains, ‘oyster shells mixed in the stones,” a condition of affairs indicating an elevation of this portion of the land above the sea level and which he conceived could not take place were the earth solid. He wrote:
Thus the surface of the globe would be a shell, capable of being broken and disordered by any violent movements of the fluid on which it rested. And as air has been compressed by art so as to be twice as dense as water, in which case if such air and water could be contained in a strong glass vessel the air would be seen to take the lowest place and the water to float above and upon it; and as we know not yet the degree of density to which air may be compressed; and M. Amontons calculated, that its density increasing as it approached the center in the same proportion as above the surface, it would be at the depth of leagues heavier than gold, possibly the dense fluid occupying the internal parts of the globe might be air compressed. And as the force of expansion in dense air when heated is in proportion to its density; this central air might afford another agent to move the surface, as well as be of use in keeping alive the subterraneous fires; though as you observe, the sudden rarefaction of water coming into contact with those fires may also be an agent sufficiently strong for that purpose when acting between the incumbent earth and the fluid on which it rests.
Ii one might indulge imagination in supposing how such a globe was formed, I should e.nceive that all the elements in separate particles being originally mixed in contusion and occupying a greater space, they would, as soon as the Almighty fiat ordained gravity or the mutual attraction of certain parts and the mutual repulsion

<<<Page: 238>>>

of other parts to exist, all move toward their common center; that the air being a fluid whose parts repel each other, though drawn to the common center by their gravity, would be densest toward the center and rarer as more remote; consequently all matters lighter than the central part of that air and immersed in it would recede from the center and rise till they arrived at that region of the air which was of the same specific gravity with themselves where they would rest; while other matter mixed with the lighter air would descend, and the two meeting would form the shell of the first earth, leaving the upper atmosphere quite clear. The original movement of the parts toward their common center would naturally form a whirl there, which would continue in the turning of the new-formed globe upon its axis, and the greatest diameter of the shell would be in its equator. If by any accident afterwards the axis should be changed, the dense internal fluid by altering its form must burst the shell and throw all its substance into the confusion in which we find it.
Again, in a letter to Mr. Bodoin, under date of 1790, he said:
Let me add another question or two, not relating, indeed, to magnetism, but, however, to the theory of the earth.
Is not the finding of great quantities of shells and bones of animals (natural to hot climates) in the cold ones of our present world some proof that its present poles have been changed? Is not the supposition that the poles have been changed the easiest way of accounting for the deluge by getting rid of the old difficulty how to dispose of its waters after it was over? Since, if the poles were again to be changed and placed in the present equator, the sea would fall there about 15 miles in height and rise as much in the present polar regions, and the effect would be proportionable if the new poles were placed anywhere between the present and the equator.
Does not the apparent wrack of the surface of this globe, thrown up into long ridges of mountains, with strata in various proportions, make it probable that its internal mass is a fluid, but a fluid so dense as to float the heaviest of our substances? Do we know the limit of condensation air is capable of? Supposing it to grow denser within the surface in the same proportion nearly as we find it does without, at what depth may it be equal in density with gold?
Can we easily conceive how the strata of the earth could have been so deranged if it had not been a mere shell supported by a heavier fluid? Would not such a supposed internal fluid globe be immediately sensible of a change in the situation of the earth’s axis, alter its form, and thereby burst the shell and throw up parts of it above the rest?
As if we would alter the proportion of the fluid contained in the shell of an egg and place its longest diameter where its shortest now is the shell must break if the whole internal substance were as solid and hard as the shell.
Might not a wave*by any means raised in this supposed internal ocean of extremely dense fluid, raise in some degree as it passes the present shell of incumbent earth and break it in some places, as in earthquakes? And may not the progress of such wave and the disorders it occasions among the solids of the sheil account for the rumbling sound being first heard at a distance, augmenting as it approaches, and gradually dying away as it proceeds? A circumstance observed by the inhabitants of South America in their last great earthquake—that noise coming from a place some degrees north of Lima and being traced by enquiry quite down to Buenos Ayres, proceeding regularly from north to south at the rate of * leagues per minute, as [ was informed by a very ingenious Peruvian whom I met in Paris.

<<<Page: 239>>>

Franklin was not the only one of our statesmen who at that time felt at liberty to indulge in study and speculation on scientific subjects. aos Jefferson, when he came to Philadelphia to be inaugurated
Vice-President in 1797, brought with him a collection Palcontolasiat, 1797. Of fossil bones from the western part of Virginia, and
the manuscript of a memoir upon them, which he read before the American Philosophical Society, of which he had been elected president the preceding year.“ And again in 1801, when Congress was vainly trying to untangle the difficulties arising from the tie vote between Jefferson and Burr, when every politician at the Capitol was busy with schemes and counter-schemes, Jefferson was corresponding with Doctor Wistar in regard to some bones of the mammoth which he had just procured from Shawangunk, in New York; and. still again, in 1808, when the excitement over the embargo was highest, and when every day brought fresh denunciation of him and his policy, he was carrying on his geological studies in the White House itself. Under his direction upward of three hundred specimens of fossil bones had been brought from the famous Big Bone Lick, of Kentucky, and spread in one of the large unfinished rooms of the Presidential Mansion. The exploration of this lick, it should be noted, was made at the private expense of Jefferson, through the agency of Gen. William Clarke, the western explorer.’
The appearance of bones of animals of large size and now extinct, as described by Jefferson, naturally excited the attention of the curious, and numerous accounts of similar occurrences began to find their way into print. In the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, under date of 1802, is given an abstract of a communication by Martin Duvalde regarding the finding of bones supposed to be those of an elephant in the Opelousas country west of the Missis‘sippi, i. e., in Louisiana.
Of greater interest, however, is a paper by the artist and naturalist, Rembrandt Peale, entitled Account of the Skeleton of the Mammoth, A Nondescript Carnivorous Animal of Immense Size Found in Amer-
_ ica. This was printed in London under date of 1802,
tho Mammoth 1902, and dedicated to Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., President of the Royal Society. The particular skeleton de-
scribed was exhumed in the vicinity of Newburgh, New York, in 1801.° The animal was regarded by Peale as unquestionably carnivorous from
a This paper was published in the Transactions of the Society, TV, 1799, as was also Doctor Wistar’s more detailed description of the bones themselves.
» The Origin of the National Scientific and Educational Institutions of the United States, by G. Brown Goode.
¢ Sufficient material was found to form two skeletons, one of which was sent to London and the other to Philadelphia, where it was subsequently destroyed by fire.

<<<Page: 240>>>

the structure of the teeth and jaw, and he concluded his description with a quotation from Doctor Dunter:
If this animal was indeed carnivorous, which I believe can not be doubted, though we may as philosophers regret it, as men we cannot but thank Heaven that its whole generation is probably extinct. @
Turning once more to the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, we find in 1799 Thomas P. Smith giving an account of ‘‘erystalline basalts” found in the Conewago Hills, near ElizabethBPA Ss a town in Pennsylvania. The ‘‘ crystals i were described the Conewago Hills, “1 generally tetrahedral and of very fine grain. The
massive, noncolumnar form was spoken of as amorphous, but it ‘*has generally a very strong tendency to crystallize.” Crystallized granite in predominating tetrahedral forms was also described. In the same transactions (1807) 5. Godon made certain observations for a mineralogical map of Maryland, in which he noted the occurrence of gneiss and greenstone in the the vicinity of Washington, and the finding of ‘* fossil bodies,” shells, and fossil woods in a ravine near Rock Creek Church. The city itself was rightly described as built on alluvial land, Rock Creek forming the boundary between the primary and alluvial soil.
In February of this same year B. H. Latrobe read before the society a paper describing the geographic distribution of the sand rock quarried at Aquia Creek on the Potomac, and used in some of the public buildings of Washington. The marked cross-bedding, so prominent a feature in the stone, he ascribed to wind action. A fact of more geological importance is, however, his recognition of the ‘‘ fall line ”—of the fact that a line drawn along the lower falls of our rivers is the ancient line of the seacoast from New York to the southwest, and indicates a higher ocean level of some 120 feet. Schépf, it will be remem-
«The first mention of bones of the American mammoth upon record appears to be that made by Dr. Cotton Mather, of Boston, in a paper communicated to the Royal Society in 1714. The object of this worthy divine seems to have been to corroborate, by the discovery of the bones, the account given in Scripture of a race of antediluvian giants. He inclines to this opinion from the circumstance that bones have been dug up in America of an enormous size, and yet resembling in their formation those of the human body. These bones, he states, were found in 1705 near Albany, on the Hudson. Among them was a grinder weighing 4? pounds; another tooth, broad and flat, like an incisor; a third like the eye tooth of man when worn away by mastication, and a bone, supposed to be that of the thigh, which was 17 feet in length. The ground for 75 feet around the spot where these bones were discovered he asserts to have been of a different color and substance from the surrounding, a difference which he attributes to the effects produced by the rotting of the flesh of the animal. Some of these bones were found at a distance of 50 leagues from the sea, and at a great depth in the earth. An account, so manifestly tinctured by credulity and evincing such entire ignorance of anatomy, excited but little attention in the scientific world, and scarce any further notice of these bones can be found for nearly thirty years.— An Account of the Fossil Bones of the Great American Mammoth, by John Ward, M. D., in Boston Journal of Philosophy, I, 1828-24, pp. 263, 264.

<<<Page: 241>>>

na" y + }

<<<Page: 242>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 2.
Professor of Chemistry, Yale College.

<<<Page: 243>>>

bered, recognized this fall line, though it does not appear that he put a like interpretation upon the phenomenon.
At this date, it is well to note, none of the sciences were taught in the colleges and other institutions of learning in America. Indeed, the general trend of public opinion was decidedly against the study of eee cs geology or the investigation of any question which Benjamin Silliman might lead to the discovery of supposed inconsisten-
cies in the Mosaic account of creation or to conclusions in any degree out of harmony therewith. The movement, therefore, by Professor Dwight in 1798 toward the establishment in Yale College of a department for the teaching of these subjects, was of the greatest importance and of far-reaching consequences. This movement culminated in 1802 with the appointment of Benjamin Silliman to the professorship of chemistry and natural science in that institution. Silliman was at that time about twenty-two years of age, only recently admitted to the bar, and was serving as a tutor in law, with not even the most rudimentary knowledge of the science he was to teach. He wrote: ;
The appointment was of course the cause of wonder to all and of cavil to political enemies of the college. Although I persevered in my legal studies * * * I soon after the confidential communication of President Dwight obtained a few books on chemistry and kept them secluded in my secretary, occasionally reading in them privately. This reading did not profit me much. Some general principles were intelligible, but it became at once obvious to me that to see and perform experiments and to become familiar with many substances was indispensable to any progress in chemistry, and of course I must resort to Philadelphia, which presented more advantage to science than any other place in our country. @
To Philadelphia he accordingly went in the autumn of 1802, remaining for nearly five months attending the lectures on chemistry given by Dr. James Woodhouse in the Medical School of Philadelphia. His own first lecture at Yale was delivered April 4, 1804, while in his twenty-fifth year, in a room in Mr. Tuttle’s building on Chapel street.
Few geological papers bear Silliman’s name, and he is better known as a teacher and public lecturer. That which, however, has tended more than anything else to keep him in constant remembrance is his American Journal of Science, founded in 1818, some eight years after the suspension of the American Journal of Mineralogy, to be noted later. The publication has continued down to the present day, and it is therefore one of the oldest and perhaps the most important geological periodical extant in America.
Silliman resigned his professorship in 1849 and died on December 24, 1864, having through his own efforts as a teacher, but more particularly through his personal influence as a writer and lecturer, probably done more to advance the science of geology than any man of

<<<Page: 244>>>

advancement, the spectacle of this voung lawyer secluding in his desk sundry books which he read privately in order to fit himself for the position of a professorship in Yale is edifying to say the least.
On January 1, 1800, the Connecticut Academy of Sciences had addressed a circular letter to every town in the State, containing subjects of inquiry arranged under thirty-two distinct heads, and requestSt enees ing answers. To the fifth of these inquiries Silliman Mineralogy of New responded in 1806 witha sketch of the mineralogy of
the town of New Haven. This was published in the Transactions of the Society in 1810, and is of interest as being the first attempt at a geological description of the region, as well as being Silliman’s first attempt at a geological survey.
With much laborious argument he showed that the town of New Haven is itself situated on an alluvial plain. East Rock he described as a whinstone, trap, or basalt, identical with that from the Salisbury Craig near Edinburgh, Scotland.
The stone is reckoned among the argillaceous clays by some mineralogists and by others among the siliceous. The predominant ingredient is certainly silex or flinty earth, although when breathed upon it emits the smell of clay, which would induce one to refer it to the argillaceous family.
He would account for its presence on the supposition that it had— actually been melted in the bowels of the earth and ejected among the superior strata by the force of subterraneous fire, but never erupted like lava, cooling under the pressure of the superincumbent strata and therefore compact or nonvesicular, its present form being due to erosion.
Thus, at this early date and with a very limited amount of experience, Silliman was able to discriminate between effusive and .deepseated rocks. The rock resting upon the sandstone to the southeast of East Rock he found somewhat puzzling. ‘* We must pronounce it granitic, although it is not a granite, and inclined to whin, although it is not a whinstone,” he wrote, finally concluding that it formed a connecting link between granite and whinstone. Pine Rock and West Rock were also identified as whin rock and basalt resting upon sandstone. Quartz and’ sandstone found at Westfield and at the Derby pike were referred to as ‘‘micacious and magnesian schistus.” He modestly concluded his paper by adding:
If there are errors (in the above) they are not the result of indolent and remiss inquiry, but of deficient information or erroneous judgment.
In these same Transactions, under date of 1808, Silliman, in conjunetion with Professor Kingsley, gave a very full account of the meteorite that fell in Weston, Connecticut, the year previous. This was the
first really scientific description of the phenomena Materdtee isos, attending the fall of one of these bodies, as well as of its mineral nature, that had, up to that time, been given in America, and it attracted widespread attention. It was this account concerning which Jefferson is said to have remarked: ‘It is

<<<Page: 245>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—MACLUREAN ERA, 1785—1819. Pile
easier to believe that two Yankee professors will lie than to admit that stones can fall from heaven.” “
A pudgy duodecimo volume of some 500 pages, from the pen of a Dr. James Mease, and bearing the date 1807, may be mentioned here, not so much on account of the scientific value of its contents as the eee, pretentiousness of Me title: A Geological Account of Pomsintattne | the United States, Jomprehending a short Description
of their Animal, Vegetable, and Mineral Productions, Antiquities, and Curiosities. The portion really geological comprises ~ some 30 pages, though 25 more are given up toa catalogue of minerals. The geological part is acknowledgedly a compilation from the writings of Volney, Mitchill, and others. The country is divided into (1) granitic region, (2) region of sandstone, (3) caleareous region, (4) region of sea sand, and (5) region of river alluvions, the boundaries of each of which are given in scme detail. The truly scientific character of the work is shown by the following quotation taken from a description of the narrows of the Connecticut River.
No living creature was ever known to pass through this narrow except an Indian woman, who was in a canoe, attempting to cross the river above it, but carelessly suffered herself to fall within the power of the current. Perceiving her danger she took a bottle of ram she had with her and drank the whole of it; then lay down in her
canoe to meet her destiny. She marvelously went through safely, and was taken out of the canoe some miles below quite intoxicated.
The year 1809 must ever be notable in the history of American geology, since it brought forth Maclure’s Observations on the Geology of the United States, with a colored geological map of the region east of LN sree Bt the Mississippi. With the exception of Gitttard’s Geclogyol sic | mineralogical map of Louisiana and Canada, published
in 1752, it was the earliest attempt at a geological map of America, and has caused its author to become known as the father of American geology and the William Smith of America.?
Maclure’s personal history is not without interest in itself, and worthy of note here on account of his relation to American science and
as illustrating the conditions under which a man at that date could rise to oo in geologi ical circles with little or no pr sou y training.
«G. Brown Gonde. ee of Dees Science. This writer, eee ie credits the authenticity of the report, regarding it one of the millions of Temiiens to which Jefferson was subjected in those days.
bSee article by J. W. Judd, Geological Magazine, London, October, 1897, for account of Smith’s work. What is believed by Professor Judd to be actually the first geological map in existence is one of Smith’s, published in 1799. This bears the following title: A map of five miles around the City of Bath (England), on a scale of one inch and a half to the mile, from an actual survey, including all the new roads, with alterations and improvements to the present time (1799), printed for and sold by A. Taylor and W. Moyler, booksellers, Bath.
The map by Cuvier and Brongniart of the environs of Paris bears the date of 1809, which is the same as that of the first edition of Maclure’s.

<<<Page: 246>>>

He was born at Ayr, Scotland, in 1763, and first came to America at the age of nineteen, with a view to mercantile employment, subsequently returning to London, where he commenced his career of commercial enterprise as a partner in the house of Miller, Hart & Co. He seems to have been remarkably successful, and accumulated a considerable fortune. In 1796 he again visited America and, it is stated, took the necessary steps for becoming an American citizen.
He was a liberal patron of science, and for twenty-two years, beginning with December, 1817, was president of the Philadelphia Academy. of Natural Sciences, to which institution he subsequently donated his, valuable private library and some $20,000 in money.
After retiring from business, and prior to 1809, Maclure spent several years in England and on the continent of Europe, traversing the most interesting portions of the Old World from the Mediterranean Sea to the Baltic and from the British Isles to Bohemia. On returning to America he took up the important enterprise, noted above, of preparing a geological map of the United States. To accomplish this, in the language of his biographer:
He went forth with his hammer in hand and his wallet on his shoulder, pursuing his researches in every direction, often amid pathless tracts and dreary solitudes, until he had crossed and recrossed the Allegheny Mountains no less than fifty times. He encountered all the privations of hunger, thirst, fatigue, and exposure, month after month and year after year, until his indomitable spirit had conquered every difficulty and crowned his enterprise with success.
Like several of the scientists of his time, Maclure in 1824 became interested in the communistic society at New Harmony, Indiana, founded by the elder Owen. He was, however, seriously disappointed in the outcome and withdrew about 1827.
It was, presumably, during his connection with this association that he is quoted as refusing to invest money in real estate in the city of Philadelphia, saying:
Land in the cities can no longer rise in value. The communistie society must prevail, and in the course of a few years Philadelphia must be deserted; those who live long enough may come back here and see the foxes looking out of the windows.
Opinions like this and those which follow are quoted here, not for the purpose of belittling Maclure in the least, but as showing how impossible it was at that time for any man to realize all that was in store for the United States.
The possibilities of railroad transportation were scarcely dreamed of, and mountain barriers and desert plains were looked upon as natural boundaries between various peoples. From an examination of maps of the United States, Maclure was inclined to divide the country into three distinet and separate parts, differing materially from each other in their relative situation and in their means of communication

<<<Page: 247>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PEATE 3-
stanly asain a leet sed pg
President of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences.

<<<Page: 248>>>



<<<Page: 249>>>

with the rest of the globe. The natural line of separation between the two main divisions was that formed by the Allegheny Mountains, which, from the poorness of the soil and the difficulty of access to market, he regarded as probably the last portion of the continent to become thickly inhabited.
To the west of this range was the Mississippi basin, which, in his view, was destined, on account of climate and soil, to become a country of immense agricultural capabilities. Traversed by only one great river, which is practically inaccessible to large ships of war, this section, inclosed by the Alleghenies on the east, the Rockies on the west, and the Lakes at the north, he felt to be guarded against invasion by the comparative weakness of their mountain neighbors and the impossibility of attack by sea. It would therefore be given over to a nation of agriculturalists, the rulers of which would by nature be deprived of even an excuse for keeping either a fleet or army such as had in the past always brought about the ruin of free and equal representative governments.
He wrote:
On this earth or in the page of history it is probable no place can be found of the same extent so well calculated to perpetuate a free and equal representative government as the basin of the Mississippi, both from its physical advantages and the political constitutions on which the state of society is bottomed.
The people of the Atlantic slope, he felt, would, however, labor under entirely different conditions. Placed on an extensive coast, accessible at all points, with numerous rivers, they were liable to the depredations of a superior fleet and would naturally become a military people and involved in wars with European nations.
Maclure’s observations, as already noted, were made in almost every State and Territory in the Union, from the river St. Lawrence to the Gulf of Mexico, and the memoir which embraces the accumulated facts was submitted to the American Philosophical Society and printed in their Transactions in 1809. The map of this issue is interesting not alone for its geological coloring, but as showing the paucity of knowledge regarding the physical features of the continent. (See Plate 1.) Thus, a continuous range of mountains was figured as extending from northern Maine, along its western boundary, through eastern Vermont, western Massachusetts, across southeast New York and New Jersey to Pennsylvania. More or less parallel ranges were figured as extending down into northern Georgia, two of which turn toward the west, the more northerly of these terminating on the Ohio River just east of the Tennessee, and the other forming the divide between the Tennessee and the headwaters of the Tombigbee River. This last feature was, however, dropped out of the second issue, published ioe Kom bre

<<<Page: 250>>>

The classification of the geological formations as adopted by Maclure in the later issue and as given below, was naturally largely Wernerian:
Cuass IL. Primitive rocks. (Sienna brown.) (1) Granite, (2) Gneiss, (8) Mica slate, (4) Clay slate, (5) Primitive limestone,
(6) Primitive trap, (7) Serpentine, (8) Porphyry, (9) Sienite, (10) Topaz-rock, (11) (uartz-rock, (12) Primitive flinty slate, (13) Primitive gypsum, (14) White stone.
Cuass Il. Transition rocks. (Carmine. )
(1) Transition limestone, (2) Transition trap, (3) Graywacke, (4) Transition flinty slate, (5) Transition gypsum.
Cuass III. Floetz or secondary rocks. (Light blue.)
(1) (dark blue) Old red sandstone, or First sandstone formation, (2) First or oldest
Floetz-limestone, (3) First or oldest Floetz gypsum, (4) Second or variegated sandstone, (5) Second Floetz gypsum, (6) Second Floetz limestone, (7) Third Floetz sandstone, (8) Rocksalt formation, (9) Chalk formation, (10) Floetz trap formation, (11) Independent coal formation, (12) Newest Floetz trap formation.
Cuass IV. Alluvial rocks. ( Yellow.)
(1) Peat, (2) Sand and gravel, (8) Loam, (4) Bog iron ore, (5) Nagel-fluh, (6) Cale tuff, (7) Cale sinter.
His alluvial class, it will be observed, occupied that portion of the Atlantic border beginning with Long Island and extending southward and westward to the western Louisiana line, comprising the beds now mapped by the U. S. Geological Survey as in part Cretaceous, but mainly Tertiary and Quaternary, and forming what is known, from a physiographic standpoint, as the Coastal Plain. The materials were described as mainly sands and clays, with considerable beds of shell deposits, and in New Jersey a greenish-blue marl (the Cretaceous glauconitic marls of recent workers), used as a manure. There were also noted deposits of iron ore and ochre. His Primitive Class was essentially the area mapped as Archean on the latest U. 5S. Geological Survey maps; the Transition, the narrow belt of sedimentaries along the Appalachian range including the various horizons from Algonkian to Carboniferous; and the Secondary class, all that area to the west now known to be occupied mainly by Carboniferous and Silurian rocks with smaller areas of Algonkian and Cambrian. The red-brown sand‘stones (Triassic) of the Eastern States were classed as Floetz or Secondary and called Old Red Sandstone. This sandstone he however separated by a deeper blue in the 1818 issue from the secondary rocks on the western side of the range, because of its having a slight dip
and agreeing, in the absence of organic remains and its relative posi

<<<Page: 251>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—MACLUREAN ERA, 1785—1819. 2? il
tion on the sides of many mountain ranges, with his Transition rocks. To the Transition beds he evidently referred all the crystalline limestones and dolomites (marbles) of western New England and the Southern States, together with quartzites and graywackes. The roofing slates, now regarded as of Cambrian and Silurian ages, he classed as secondary. The line between the Primitive and Transition may ‘*perhaps be marked by the presence or absence of organic remains, or of aggregates of rounded particles the result of former decomposition, in part, by the more or less erystalline texture and its approach toward deposition.”
To the northwest of the Transition belt lies an immense area of secondary rocks, comprising, as above noted, the horizontal limestones and slates skirting Lake Champlain about Ticonderoga and Crown Point. There are also ‘‘immense beds of secondary limestones, of all shades froma light blue to black, intercepted in some places by extensive tracts of sandstone and other secondary aggregates,” which ‘* appear to constitute the foundation of this formation, on which reposes the great and valuable coal formation,” which ‘*extends from the headwaters of the Ohio in Pennsylvania, with some interruption, all the way to the waters of the Tombigbee.” He noted that along the southeast boundaries of this formation, as on the fork of the Holston in Virginia and in Greene County and the Pigeon River region of Tennessee, gypsum, salt licks, and salt springs had been discovered. In his first map this is indicated by a line of green extending northeast and southwest entirely across the State. In the second he continues it northeast to New York. The continuation of these as far north as Lake Oneida, in New York State, led him to the conclusion, since abundantly verified, that ‘‘ we may hope one day to find an abundance of those two most useful substances (salt and gypsum), which are generally found mixed or near each other in all countries that have hitherto been carefully examined.” He called attention to the presence of iron pyrites in the coal and limestone, of iron ores consisting principally of brown sparry and clay iron stone, and of galena in the Mississippi valley. On the Great Kanawha, near the mouth of Elk River, he noted the presence of ‘ta large mass of black (I suppose vegetable) earth, so soft as to be penetrated by a pole 10 or 12 feet deep. Out of the hoie so made frequently issues a stream of hydrogen gas, which will burn some time;” and he queried ‘‘if a careful examination of this place would not throw some light on the formation of coal and other combustible substances found in such abundance in this formation.” The occurrence of large detached masses of granite over an area from Harmony, in Indiana, to Erie, New York, and thence to Fort Ann, in some cases at least 200 miles from any known outcrops, was noted, but no suggestion made relative to their probable means of transportation.

<<<Page: 252>>>

In this same year 8S. Godon published in the Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences a paper of twenty-seven pages on Mineralogical Observations made in the environs of Boston in 1807
; and 1808. Godon’s oO ; ; Mineralogical As customary at that time, rocks and minerals were
Observations, 1809. : é ° es susie bunched together quite indiscriminately. He divided
his minerals into two general groups, (1) Simple minerals and (2) Aggregate minerals. The simple minerals were then divided into Acidiferous substances (under which was placed carbonate of lime!), Earthy substances, Combustible substances, and Metallic substances. The aggregate minerals were classed under Primordial soil and Alluvial deposits. Under the first mentioned (Primordial soil) were placed all the primary and consolidated sedimentary rocks of the region. The nomenclature adopted, though somewhat cumbersome and awkward, was not more so than others since devised, the name of any rock being formed by adding the termination o7d to that of the most characteristic mineral. Thus amphiholoid, feldsparoid, argilloid were the names of rocks in which amphibole, feldspar, or clay formed the chief constituent. The rhyolites (quartz porphyries and felsites) of the region were classed as simple petrosilex and compound petrosilex and the Dorchester conglomerate as wacke.
The paper offers a striking evidence of the lack of knowledge of the composition of rocks and of chemical methods at that date. Thus an attempt was made at analyzing the ‘‘ argilloid” by reducing 100 parts toa ‘* subtile” powder and mixing it with an equal part of concentrated sulphuric acid. After standing fifteen days the solid portion remaining was removed from the solution (method not stated), washed, and weighed, whereby it was found that 85 per cent remained. The solution was allowed to evaporate to dryness, and from the precipitated sulphate of lime thus obtained it was calculated that 5.5 parts out of the 15 parts soluble were of lime. Alumina and iron were determined by precipitation by ammonia—6.75 parts obtained. The liquid remaining from the alumina-iron filtrate was then dried and heated till the ammonia was driven off, the substance left dissolved in water and allowed to crystallize, producing an admixture of ‘* well characterized sulphate of potash and sulphate of soda.” ‘* This analysis,” while confessedly not of great accuracy, he wrote, ‘* is sufficient to establish the important fact of the existence of potash and soda as elements in some rocks in this part of the world.” Truly an important discovery!
In the same memoirs and this same year Prof. Parker Cleaveland, of Bowdoin College, perhaps all unintentionally, started the controversy relative to Glacial and post-Glacial uplift and depression by announcing the finding of fossil shells belonging to genera still living in deposits of sand and clay well above sea level at Brunswick, Maine.

<<<Page: 253>>>

In January, 1810, there was established by Prof. Archibald Bruce the American Mineralogical Journal, the first American publication designed primarily for geologists and mineralogists. The life of this es journal was, however, short, the last issue be: aring the Pea a date ot 1814, and the ehgle number comprising but
270 pages.
The first paper was by Samuel L. Mitchill, professor of natural history and botany in the University of the State of New York. This consisted of an annotated catalogue accompanying a suite of mineral specimens made during a tour to Niagara in 1809.
Among the other papers which followed mention may be made of one by Colonel Gibbs on the Iron Ores of Franconia, New Hampshire; by Benjamin Silliman on the Lead Mines near Northampton, Massachusetts; by James Catbush on the Blue Earth of New Jersey, and by W. Meade on Elastic Marble, a ‘‘ fossil of rare occurrence” found near Pittsfield, Massachusetts.
The more important strictly geological papers were by Dr. Samuel Akerly and included a geological account of Dutchess County in New York, one on the improbability of finding coal on Long Island or in the vicinity of New York, and one on the geology and mineralogy of the island of New York. Akerly described the highlands of Dutchess County as consisting of granitic rocks, and the whole country north of the highlands as underlaid with primitive slate, most of the hills being composed of limestone. New York Island was described as underlaid throughout its northern part by primitive rocks, granite, and limestone; the southern part, upon which the then existing city was built, as composed of an alluvion of sand, stone, and rocks. This he regarded as a recent deposit ** subsequent to the creation and even the (ene. ” The manner in which this alluvial material was deposited he described as follows:
Fig, 1.—Archibald Bruce.
After the waters of the Deluge had retired from this continent, they left a vast chain of lakes, some of which are still confined within their rocky barriers; others have since broken their bounds and united with the ocean. The highlands of New York was the southern boundary of a huge collection of water, which was confined on the west by the Shawangunk and Katts-kill mountains. The hills on the east of the Hudson confined it there. When the hills were cleft and the mountains torn asunder, the water found yent and overflowed the country to the south. It was then that the channel of the Hudson was formed, and its stream has never since ceased to flow. The earth, sand, stones, and rocks brought down by this torrent were deposited in various places, as on this island, Long Island, Staten Island, and the Jerseys. This opinion is mostly hypothetical, because unsupported by a

<<<Page: 254>>>

sufficient number of facts, but that it is probable may be judged by what follows. (See Mitchill’s views on p. 231.)
In the same journal Samuel Brown, of Lexington, Kentucky, gave a description of a cave on Crooked Creek, with remarks and observations on niter and gunpowder; Robert Gilmore, a descriptive catalogue of minerals occurring in the vicinity of Baltimore; while S. L. Mitchill proposed an amendment to Maclure’s chart of the United States so far as it related to the character of the north side of Long Island, which he showed to be alluvial and not primitive, as stated, and Benjamin Silliman described the plain of New Haven as wholly alluvial and of very recent origin. This paper is evidently a partial reprint of one offered before the Connecticut Academy of Sciences in 1810 and referred to elsewhere (p. 216).
A paper by J. Corre de Serra, the Portuguese minister then residing in Philadelphia, read before the American Philosophical Society in 1815, and published in their Transactions in 1818, is of interest as showing the condition of knowledge relative to so commonplace a phenomenon as that of rock weathering and formation of soils. His paper was entitled Observations and Conjectures on the Formation and Nature of the Soil in Kentucky. He regarded this soil as the product ‘‘of the decomposition of an immense deposit of vegetables which the ocean had left uncovered by any other deposition.”
It may be remembered that Jefferson, in his notes on the State of Virginia, had described in considerable detail and very eloquently the now well-known Natural Bridge of Rockbridge County, which he Pee seh regarded as spanning a gigantic fissure, the result of lice Cnt ae some great convulsion. In the Transactions of the
American Philosophical Society for 1816 (1818) Francis William Gilmer had a paper on the same subject, illustrated by a fullpage plate. The bridge was described in detail and its formation ascribed, not to a sudden convulsion, as argued by Jefferson, or to any extraordinarily sudden deviation from the ordinary laws of nature, but to the ‘tvery slow operation of causes which have always and must ever continue to act inthe same manner.” ‘This cause he rightly considered to be the solvent action of meteoric waters on limestone. In this respect Gilmer, although scarcely known to geological science, was vastly in advance of the workers of his day.
Three years later the Rey. Elias Cornelius, a man of education and culture, but whose professional training seems to have quite untitted him for the work of a geologist, also discussed the subject in a paper se ee see in the American Journal of Science, giving the results Rev. E. Cornelius, of his observations on the geology of parts of Virginia,
Tennessee, and the Alabama and Mississippi territories. He dissented from any of the views thus far expressed, and in the sublimity of his faith could see no good reason, or in his own

<<<Page: 255>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—-MACLUREAN ERA, 1785-1819. ogni,
words, no ‘‘difficulty even in supposing it (i. e., the bridge) to have proceeded from the hand of the Almighty as it is.”
Next to Maclure’s Observations on the Geology of North America, undoubtedly the most importaut of the early publications was Parker Cleaveland’s Elementary Treatise on Mineralogy and Geology, a work
of upward of six hundred pages, with five plates of
cen crystal drawings and a colored geological map. Geology, 1816. For most of the geological observations and for the
map Cleaveland was indebted to Maclure and to written communications from H. H. Hayden. The principal variation from Maclure’s map lay in the adoption of the suggestion of S. L. Mitchill regarding the extension of the alluvial deposits on Long Island. It further differed from that published by Maclure in 1817 in that a large portion of southern and western Maine was colored as occupied by transition rocks, this area having been left blank by Maclure.
The classification adopted in the work was largely chemical, the minerals being divided into (1) classes, (2) orders, (3) genera, and (4) species, his definition of species being ‘ta collection of materials which are composed of the same ingredients, combined in the same proportions.”
In the tabular view given, all known minerals were grouped under four classes, as follows: Class 1, substances not metallic, composed entirely or in part of an acid; class 2, earthy compounds or stones; class 3, combustibles, and class 4, ores. As was the case with all writers of that day, basalt and several other compact rocks of indistinct mineralogical nature were classed as minerals. ‘Thus is found under class 2, species 15, porcellanite; species 16, si/icon slate; species 32, emerald, and species 34, basalt. This last was described as never crystallized but occurring ‘‘in large amorphous masses, but also under a columnar, tabular, or globular form” and passing insensibly into **oreenstone, wacke, and perhaps clinkstone.”
Not only was the mineralogical nature of basalt little understood, but even its relationship to volcanic rocks as well. It was described as sometimes found in countries decidedly volcanic, but seldom near the craters of still active volcanoes; ‘*on the contrary, it appears at the foot of volcanic mountains and sometimes almost surrounds them.” Some of the most noted localities mentioned are the Giant’s Causeway, island of Staffa, the Erzgebirge, Auvergne, etc. Its occurrence in the United States was regarded as doubtful, though he noted its reported occurrence on the Stony (Rocky) Mountains. It was regarded as of both igneous and aqueous origin.
Anthracite, which forms species 6 under class 3, combustibles, was described as ‘‘strongly resembling coal, from which, however, it materially differs.” It was said to occur in primitive or transitional rocks, though sometimes connected with secondary rocks. Obviously,
NAT Mus 1904——15

<<<Page: 256>>>

therefore, it is stated, it has not, at least in many cases, resulted from the decomposition of vegetable matter.
Pages 586 to 636 of Cleaveland’s first edition included an introduction to the study of geology. Some of the statements here made are of interest: ‘‘ Most of those extensive masses of strata,” he wrote, ‘‘ with which geology is concerned are compound minerals, or aggregates, composed of two or more simple minerals mingled in various proportions and denominated rocks.” While thus a division into species and genera may be possible with minerals, with rocks the case is quite different. ‘‘It is obvious that they can not admit of distinctions which are strictly specific.” This observation holds good to the present day. His remarks on the position of the beds of rocks were no less interesting:
When primitive rocks are stratified the strata are seldom horizontal: On the contrary, they are often highly inclined and sometimes nearly or quite vertical. But whether these strata were originally inclined or whether, subsequent to their formation, they have been changed from a horizontal to an inclined position by the action of some powerful cause, is a question on which the most distinguished geologists are divided in opinion.
Again:
It is further evident that the higher the level at which any rock appears at the surface of the earth, the older is the rock; for it so declines as to pass under those rocks which appear at a lower level. The only exception to this general fact appears in those horizontal strata of secondary rocks which sometimes rest on the summits of high mountains.
The theory of the earth adopted by Cleaveland is apparently that of Cuvier. In his discussion of the origin of rocks and geological systems he was for the most part a follower of Werner, though he recognized some of the difficulties attendant upon the complete adoption of the Neptunian theory. ‘‘ Though its general outlines may be correct, we are yet unable to give its details. It seems, however, to be rather encumbered with difficulties than absolutely confronted by existing facts.” His views regarding volcanoes were largely a reflection of those advocated by his European contemporaries, and need but brief allusion.
Many parts of the external crust of the earth are subject to the action of subterraneous fire. In some cases these fires are comparatively mild and produce no important effects, excepting the destruction of the combustibles which feed them, and are nothing more than coal mines in a state of combustion. But in other cases these subterraneous fires rage with resistless impetuosity.
Cleaveland was a graduate of Harvard in the class of 1799, and was in 1805 appointed to the professorship of mathematics, natural philosophy, chemistry, and mineralogy in Bowdoin College, Brunswick,
Maine. He is described by his biographer (the elder Cena Silliman) as a man of great natural ardor and activity, with a reputation for zeal, industry, and learning. To these statements certainly no one will take exception, when the period and magnitude of his work and manifold character of his professional

<<<Page: 257>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 4.
or of Chemistry and Mineralogy, Bowdoin College.

<<<Page: 258>>>



<<<Page: 259>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—MACLUREAN ERA, 1785-1819. oO
duties are taken into consideration. It must be remembered that his was the first attempt made in America at a systematic treatise on mineralogy.. (Shepard’s came sixteen and Dana’s twenty-one years later.) The only available foreign works were those of Jameson, Kirwan, Werner, and Brongniart; moreover, there were in America few, if any, important mineral cabinets, those of B. D. Perkins, Archibald Bruce, and Col. George Gibbs alone being worthy of mention. The work, we are told, was received with great favor, two editions being issued, the second in two volumes bearing date of 1822. A third was called for but never prepared, owing to the failing health of the author.@
An interesting side light is thrown by one of the reviewers of the first edition upon the condition of the science at. that time. Thus hewrote of Hauy’s *‘curious discoveries regarding the six primitive figures or solids which form the base of all crystals,” and called it ‘* the most singular and acute discovery of our age,” though ‘‘ there is a difference of opinion among mineralogists as to the practical use of crystallography in the discrimination of minerals.” The same reviewer naively remarked: **In this age of bookmaking it is no small negative. praise if an author be acquitted of unnecessarily adding to the onerous mass of books.” ?
Not satisfied with his first edition, which, according to Marcou, was published during the author’s absence in Europe, Maclure immediately set about obtaining the necessary information for a revision, and in eee... 1SL 7 aiter eight years of hard work, presented the eos a amended memoir. which was republished in the trans-
actions of the Philosophical Society and also in the form of a separate volume of 127 pages, bearing the same date. The second issue differed considerably from the first, the most conspicuous features being the delineation of the mountain ranges and the correction of many minor details regarding the distribution of various geological formations.
On Plate 2 of this issue he gave five sections across the United States from the Atlantic, through the Appalachian regions and the secondary rocks of the Mississippi, which were colored to correspond with the
“Ina letter dated Madrid, August 20, 1822, Maclure writes to Cleaveland as follows: “| felicitate you on a second edition of your mineralogy being so soon necessary. The mineralogical professor here, Dn. Donato Gareia, has the intention of translating your work into Spanish as the best elementary book yet known.’’ As to whether or not this intention was carried out, the present writer has no information.
®The second American work on mineralogy by one who could with propriety be called a mineralogist and original worker was Prof. C. U. Shepard’s Treatise on Mineralogy, Shepard being at that time twenty-eight years of age and an assistant to ‘Professor Silliman at New Haven. The work, which was founded on that of the wellknown Austrian mineralogist, Mohs, appeared in the form of a small octavo volume of 256 pages. In 1835 a second part in two volumes of 630 pages appeared. Being purely mineralogical in its nature, but passing note can be made of it here. A second edition was issued in 1844.

<<<Page: 260>>>

scheme in the map. (See Plate 5.) The first section extended from Camden in Penobscot Bay, Maine, to Oxboro, near Kingston, on Lake Ontario; the second from Plymouth, Massachusetts, to Cayuga Lake, New: York; the third from Egg Harbor, New Jersey, to Pittsburg, Pennsylvania; the fourth from Cape Henry, Virginia, to Arlington, in the same State, and the fifth from Cape Fear, North Carolina, to Warm Springs, in the same State. The poverty of information at that time relative to the Rocky Mountain region is shown in the statement that ‘* the tops of the Stony Mountains are covered to a considerable extent with perpetual snows and pendent glaciers.”
As was the case with a majority of the earlier surveys and geological text-books, considerable attention was given to the relation of the science to agriculture, and the two closing chapters of the second issue were given up to Hints on the Decomposition of Rock, with an Inquiry into the Probable Effects they may Produce on the Nature and Fertility of Soils. The kinds of soils resulting from the decomposition of various rocks were discussed with particular attention to their physical nature, but while occasional references were made. to their content of lime, the alkalies, and other constituents, no chemical analyses were given, nor was their desirability apparently appreciated.
It does not seem to have been realized, however, that throughout the entire glaciated area as now known there may be little connection between the soils and the rocks immediately underlying them.
During 1818, as already noted, there was founded the American Journal of Science, or, as it was familiarly called, Silliman’s Journal, the first volume bearing on the title-page the date 1819. It is MO Je oleal oe notable as being the first Ameri san journal to be given Journaliof Science, Up largely to geological subjects, although other sci-
ences were by no means debarred. In fact, as noted in his plan of the work, the Journal was intended to embrace the circle of the physical sciences and their application to the arts and to every useful purpose.
From its earliest inception geological notes and papers occupied a prominent place in its pages, and a perusal of the numbers from the date of issue down to the present time will, alone, afford a fair idea of the gradual progress of American geology. I shall note in the following pages many articles taken from the Journal, particularly the earlier numbers, as serving best’ to illustrate the condition of the science at the time of their issue.
Among the earliest publications on the geology and mineralogy of New England mention must be made of J. F. and 8. L. Dana’s Outlines of the Mineralogy and Geology of Boston and Vicinity, which SEG Pr re a b pars the date of 1818, and which is further noteworthy pineal os for containing a geological map of the area indicated,
being antedated only a year by Edward Hitehcock’s geological map of a part of Massachusetts on the Connecticut River

<<<Page: 261>>>

Report of U. S. National Mu:
[ ou | Pag Ly Ibe Ate a gLOOL 4) ~ > VapUlTy? am yuleuLn,y “| tof] bOT § HH A
Ppptid yp ptita > :
{| ' | 7 U2WD PevrT a | WHA 3° Pxaed Ei wa . | | z d yreqouuy Bc SS i | PIPUYNUS 4) 4 :
6 14 4P°N Ea | |
Y epi
DIT Ya YO2Ng SAT

<<<Page: 262>>>



<<<Page: 263>>>

“Pag (-
J Wary PvP, opprripniag ho
Vy ey Lita
3 ty bang UeUunT Ye To
Yrpouvey wee FT M
Green Mt
fag VGhOTO?
uryduwyy 7 OL9GSTENM g ee)
ayte SUELO
Allegany M*
vari] bumidy UnLP if
, bo00
nacetw s Cainte 1S. ROTO UTECGRAHEE meinnston BG
Macture's SECTIONS ACROSS THE APPALACHIANS. Copy of original in Transactions of American Philosophical Society, 1818,

<<<Page: 264>>>

Fr ns Fee STG. (een ic hee
3 ie
ee hs Hae precy <<.  i. pt. {aroun leey } sp peeknt
D le Cee ee
rs. oe , a <i >
~~ Ae

<<<Page: 265>>>

and the various reprints of Maclure’s. The classification adopted was that of Werner, and hence, of course, purely lithological. The various rocks enumerated and colored on the map were: I. The Primitive, including granite, argillite, primitive trap, porphyry, and syenite; II. Transition, including amygdaloid and graywacke; and III. Alluvial, including sand, pebbles, clay, and peat. No granite was, however, recorded as in place, the granite of Quincy and the areas west of north of Marblehead being colored as syenite. The argillite was regarded as the oldest rock occurring in the vicinity, and was represented as forming gently undulating eminences in Charlestown, Watertown, Chelsea, and Quincy. Greenstone, or primitive trap, was represented as occupying all of the Marblehead-Salem areas and large areas to the west, including Stoneham and Lexington. Porphyry, ‘**a compound rock having a compact basis, in which are embedded crystals or grains of other minerals of contemporaneous formation,” and which passes into both syenite and petrosilex, they found in Malden, Lynn, and Chelsea, while the large area beginning at the shore east and north of Lynn and extending southwestward as faras Malden, was colored as petrosilex. A wide strip, extending from just west of the Charles River to the coast, including Brookline, Roxbury, and Dorchester, was colored as graywacke, this being, of course, the conglomerate of later writers. On the northern and western edges of this are narrow belts colored as amygdaloid, the same being the rock later shown by Benton to be melaphyr, or ancient basaltic lava flow.
The minerals as described were divided into Class I. Earthy fossils; Class II. Saline fossils; Class ILI. Inflammable substances; and Class IV. Metallick fossils. Under Class I were included the phosphates and carbonates of lime, quartz, such silicates as mica, shorl, feldspar, garnet, epidote, the amphiboles, etc., and such compound substances as petrosilex, basalt, wacke, schaalstone, argillaceous slate, and clay. The second class, Saline Fossils, included but a single species, sulphate of iron. Class Ill included hydrogen gas and peat, and Class IV sulphides and chlorides of copper, sulphide, oxide, and carbonate of iron, sulphide of lead, and oxide of manganese. The classes were subdivided into orders and the orders into genera, species, subspecies, and varieties. Thus novaculite was considered a subspecies of argillaceous slate, a species under Order II, Nonacidiferous substances of Class I, Earthy fossils. Altogether some 21 species of Earthy fossils were recognized, 1 of Saline fossils, 2 of Inflammable substances, and 8 of Metallick fossils. These were all described in detail, their physical
Fig. 2.—Samuel Luther Dana.

<<<Page: 266>>>

characters and conduct before the blowpipe, and their place of oceurrence. Perhaps no better means of showing the condition of the science at that time can be found than by reproducing here a page of the original descriptive matter under Class I, Order II.
Species VII—WackeE.
Wacke, Cleaveland, p. 287. Wacce, Jameson, vol. 1, p. 376. Wacken, Kirwan, vol. 1, p. 223. Wakke, Aikin, p. 254.
External characters.
Its colours are grey and purple. Of grey, it occurs blackish grey and greenish grey; of purple, lavender purple. The colours vary much in their intensity.
It is dull.
It is amorphous and cellular.
It exhales a strong argillaceous odour when breathed upon.
It adheres to the tongue.
Its streak is greyish white, with a reddish purple tinge in some parts, and is raul
It is moderately hard, passing to soft.
The fracture is from fine grained uneven to earthy; some specimens show a slightly slaty structure.
It is brittle.
It is easily frangible.
The fragments are indeterminately angular and not particularly sharp edged.
Its specifick gravity is about 2.88.
Chymical characters.
Before the blowpipe it melts into an opaque, semi-vitreous mass which appears porous when broken. Geological situation and localities.
It occurs in beds in Petrosilex at Milton, and forms the basis of Amygdaloid at srighton, Hingham, Newton, &c., and it is found also in rounded fragments at Needham, Newton, Brighton, &c.
Remarks.
This mineral sometimes much resembles ferruginous clay, and is intermediate g y; between Clay and Basalt. It is very liable to decomposition, and when it forms the y 5 if , basis of Amygdaloid, by undergoing this change, it leaves the imbedded minerals projecting, or they fall out and leave the Wacke cellular. @
In 1818 there was published by Kirk and Mercein in New York Robert Jameson’s translation of Cuvier’s celebrated essay on the Theory of the Earth, and with it S. L. Mitchill’s Observations on the a eA Geology of North America.’ It is the Observations
itchill on the = ° : : Geology of North alone that need now receive our attention, and this America, 1818. 5 ° o =
with particular reference only to what is said regarding the origin of the drift. Mitchill was one of the most Proms
“This work was the subject of a sc pihiee review in the Analectic Magazine, LTT, 1819, where the writers were accused of having borrowed at least three-fourths of their material ‘‘for the mere purpose of eking out the matter to the proper size of a justum volumen—ot borrowing the most elementary ideasof the most common authors.”’ * * * “A student who has read either Cleaveland, Jameson, or Aikin, will find not a sentence that is new in at least nine-tenths of the book; which is in fact a disgrace. ful example of literary book-making, as it respec ts both the matter and the manner.”’
» There was manifested, particularly by the publishing houses of Philadelphia, an

<<<Page: 267>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—MACLUREAN ERA, 1785-1819. 2a
scientific men of his day, had read and traveled extensively, and it may be safe to assume that the views held by him were supposed to rest upon a good foundation, though they were not wholly accepted, as is mentioned later.
It was Mitchill’s idea that the Great Lakes were the shrunken representatives of great internal seas of salt water, which ultimately broke through their barriers, the saline lakes becoming gradually freshened by a constant influx of fresh water. The remains of the barriers which held back for a time this inland sea he thought to be still evident. One of them, he wrote, seemed to have circumscribed to a certain degree the waters of the original Lake Ontario and to be still traceable as a mountainous ridge beyond the St. Lawrence in upper Canada, northeast of Kingston, passing thence into New York, where it formed the divide between the present lake and the St. Lawrence, and, continuing to the north end of Lake George, apparently crossed the Hudson above Hadley Falls. Thence he believed it to run toward the eastern sources of the Susquehanna, along the Cookwago and Papachton branches of the Delaware, crossing the last named a little north of Easton (Delaware Watergap), the Lehigh north of Heidelburg (Lehigh Gap), and the 5, 3 samuel Latham Mitchill. Schuylkill northwest of Hamburg in Pennsylvania. Continuing thence along to the north of Harrisburg, across the Susquehanna, in a southwesterly direction until it entered Maryland, and passed the Potomac at Harpers Ferry into Virginia, where it became confounded with the Allegheny Mountains. Thence gradually disappearing, traces of it appeared to the westward, as at Cumberland Gap in Tennessee and the mountains west of Cape Girardeau beyond the Mississippi.
It is evident that for a good part of its course, as traced, this barrier was but the Blue Ridge, while in eastern New York it was comprised mainly of the Catskills and Adirondacks.
To appreciate Mitchill’s view, then, we have to imagine this now broken and gapped ridge as continuous throughout its whole extent, forming a vast dam holding back the waters of several salt inland seas
early tendency to reprint many of the English works on geology and mineralogy. This finds its most important illustration, from the present standpoint, in the reprinting of Frederick Accums’s A Practical Essay on the Analysis of Minerals (Philadelphia, 1809); Cuvier’s Essay, as noted above; Bakewell’s An Introduction to Geology (New Haven, 1829); Cuvier’s A Discourse on the Evolution of the Surface of the Globe (Philadelphia, 1831); and De la Beche’s A Geological Manual (Philadelphia, 1832), etc.

<<<Page: 268>>>

to the northward, while the region to the southward was dry land. A time came, however, when the dams at various points proved too frail and gave way, the pent-up waters rushing through and carrying devastation with them like the waters from cloud-bursts or bursting reservoirs of to-day, but on a thousandfold larger scale.
One breach was conceived to have been at the northeastern extremity of Lake Ontario. The Thousand Isles, to Mitchill’s mind, *‘ bear witness to the mighty rush of waters which thus prostrated the opposing
» e Y A EF z ur iS Wp rz , = aS \ EZ, irk BN Ao) 3
ena fo “ont oo
SA, XN vetoes AY
<a L ve ave AN ADEN 0 A_s
F oo ependron Shoe DE i)
40008 0 pure ‘3 canton | i Alto 2 WS ae cy i ° -— = Zs nD Layemes oF SN te Hninetons \ouses igs = ‘o Wal
KC < Ze geri) PPS ="
a feet ash!
be ary, ° of yne erate
Fic. 4.—Map to illustrate Mitchill’s theory of barriers.
mound and left them as scattered monuments of the ruin.” ‘‘ By this
operation the water must have subsided about 160 feet,” or to its present level.
All the country on both the Canadian and Fredonian sides must have been drained and left bare * * * exposing to view the waterworn pebbles, the works of marine animals, their solid parts buried in the soil, their relicks bedded in the rocks, and the whole exhibition of organic remains formed in the bottom of such a sea as that was.
Great masses of primitive rocks from the demolished mound or dam and yast quantities of sand, mud, and gravel were carried down the stream to form the curious mixture of primitive with alluvial materials in regions below.

<<<Page: 269>>>

A second breach was conceived to have been at the northern extremity of Lake George, whereby the lake was diminished to about its present size. <A third was at Hadley Falls; a fourth at the upper falls of the Mohawk; a fifth was made by the pent-up waters of the Delaware above Easton, Pennsylvania; a sixth by the Lehigh to the northwest of Bethlehem; a seventh by the Schuylkill; an eighth by the Susquehanna, and a ninth by the Potomac cutting its way through the Blue Ridge at Harpers Ferry. A second series of lakes and dams he conceived as having existed outside, 1. e., to the southward of those above mentioned. ‘To the bursting of these he attributed many of the » minor features of the present landscape.
The work contains little in the way of systematic geology aside from the speculations above mentioned, though there are disconnected references to and descriptions of fossil remains and rocks found in various parts of the country. He, however, called attention to the possibility of the Great Lakes having formerly drained into the Mississippi, the gradual retreat of the falls of Niagara, and the formation of the gorge through the undermining of the harder surface limestone, facts which seem to have been very early recognized.
This same year witnessed the first appearance in geological science of Edward Hitchcock, then a young theological student of twenty-tive, but who was destined to be one of the most prominent figures of his Pe ate UMMC Hitchcock came first into notice in 1815 through Pirst Geological some astronomical observations and corrections fur-
nished Blunt’s Nautical Almanac. His inclination, however, early took a geological turn, and throughout a prolonged period of activity, first as a clergyman and later as professor, president, and again professor in Amherst College, he kept himself ever prominently to the front.
The first State geological survey carried to completion, that of Massachusetts, 1830-1833, was primarily his conception and executed almost wholly through his efforts. He became, however, most widely known and is best remembered through his work on the footprints found in the Triassic sandstones of the Connecticut Valley and his studies of the drift phenomena, in both of which he was a pioneer. Indeed, if one may be allowed to speak facetiously of so cultured and dignified a gentleman, he was America’s first ** superticial geologist,” and a perusal of his papers alone will give a very fair idea of the development of the glacial hypothesis in America.
The paper to which allusion is made above, Some Remarks on the Geology and Mineralogy of a Section of Massachusetts on the Connecticut River, with a Part of New Hampshire and Vermont, was published in the first volume, 1818, of the American Journal of Science. It is noteworthy on account of a geological map of the region, colored by hand, and a transverse section of the rock strata

<<<Page: 270>>>

from Hoosac Mountain to 11 miles east of the Connecticut River. The rocks were classed as primitive, secondary, and alluvial, the older erystallines and the argillites being considered as primitive, while the traps and sandstones were put down as secondary.
The year 1818 was rendered notable also by the appearance in the eeological arena of Amos Eaton, a man who, like Hitchcock, was destined to achieve a national reputation, but whose mental character-
istics were as unlike Hitchcock’s as was_ possible Eaton’s Index, 1818. among men in the same calling. His first geological
paper occupied three pages of the American Journal of Science for the year under discussion. His first noteworthy publication was the Index to the Geology of the Northern States, which appeared in the form of a text-book for the geological classes at Williams College that same year. Eaton is described as a man of great force, untiring energy, and was one of the most interesting men of his day. In 1816, at the age of forty, he abandoned the practice of law and went to New Haven to attend Silliman’s lectures on mineralogy and geology. Subsequently he traveled many thousand miles on foot, throughout New England and New York, delivering in the principal towns short courses of lectures on natural history. In March, 1817, having received an invitation to aid in the introduction of the natural sciences in Williams College, his alma mater, he delivered a course of lectures. in Williamstown. Such was the zeal at this institution, he wrote, that ‘tan uncontrollable enthusiasm for natural history took possession of every mind, and other departments of learning were for a time crowded out of the college.” In April, 1818, on invitation of Governor De Witt Clinton, he delivered in Albany, before the members of the State legislature, a course of lectures on natural history. Here was undoubtedly the beginning of the work which resulted in the establishment of the State survey.
In the ‘* Index” mentioned above (which has been pronounced *‘ the first attempt at an arrangement of the geological strata of North America”) the views expressed were naturally largely tinged with Wernerism. They are reviewed in detail here, even when almost exact equivalents, on account of their local application.
Eaton divided the rocks of the earth’s crust into five classes: First, Primitive; second, Transition; third, Secondary; fourth, Superincumbent; and, fifth, Alluvial; the body of the work, occupying pages 15 to 41, inclusive, being given up to their description and geographical distribution.
Under the head of Primitive rocks he included granite, granular limestone and quartz, gneiss, mica-slate, soapstone rocks, calcareous and granular quartz, and syenite. These were regarded as barren of
fossil remains and the oldest rocks to which human research had extended.

<<<Page: 271>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill.
Amos EATON.
Professor of Natural Science, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.

<<<Page: 272>>>



<<<Page: 273>>>

The Transition class included metalliferous limestone, argillaceous and siliceous slate, gray wacke slate, and rubblestone.
The Secondary class included red sandstone, breccia, compact limestone, gypsum, and rocksalt;
le oe. ie ake = 1S Ps ee the Superincumbent class, bagk se : ii eco 7... ay salt, greenstone, trap, and SEE ee 2 3 . ‘ . eee Ae Eaton's Mill. amygdaloid, and the Alluvial 23 2 ene a class, gravel, sand, clay,and 352 2° 2 5 fppgep.-..------eee lean esi A ighaihe | a Senge Mathcoriarer ; ZS ® B Illustrative of his ideas 2% a 8 e ais . 5 = + CG) GRAB aN ww. cece eeee Claverack. concerning the position of = o 2 . e = > these rocks, a geological = a 2 ae 2 a es o ao B[S OYOVMABIL) “OT
] AWA GR ey ee ee CR me) | lC_A Williamsburg. Pittsfield, Vermont, he wrote: + he . orthampton, ** It sinks laterally under the Conn. river . ee Sarin Mt. Holyoke. mica-slate to the west, and .2 i& [egmmmmY.-..-.0:-:: Hadley. probably does not rise again = £5 M®.......... Belchertown. until it reaches the continent . Swift river. of Asia.” Thesoapstonesand = & @igac®......... bileiina tl serpentines,now known tobe © ~% MRM S>.----Ceres Cyt OS Se Se ee es —6l SSRI Chicapee river. altered eruptive rock, were ~~ 5 A Brookfield regarded by him as forming *7'* 7" e econ, : C Set Se one of the concentric coats of 552222 vo . = e wr DB = = .. Leicester. mechanically deposited mate= BBER Se ror ee rials, and, as with syeniteand 22° = ....Shrewsbury. granite, their possible erup2% 2 . eee... Northbury. ti y Port t Ir 1d f a > 2 a) (ee Westbury. ive origin not dreamed of. 3 . oe eee In his Transition class he ® S would include the marbles of S = Be weg.......... Framingham. western Vermont, now con= aes CS pee: sidered to be of Lower Silursie faery cea lan and Cambrian age, and eee ase Watertown. ATOMS ORL cme Mien RR aeT ela). ce 1 BBE hiceccitccne seas Cambridge. the roofing slates. —_ mae Gr
In the Secondary class he — included the red sandstones of the Catskills (Devonian), as well as those of the Connecticut River (Triassic). Discussing the position of the Catskill stone, he wrote: *‘ Bakewell removed this stratum

<<<Page: 274>>>

from the Secondary class (where Werner placed it) to the Transition. He says this stratum terminates the series of transition rocks containing metallic veins and the more ancient organic relics. Had Bakewell ever visited Catskill Mountain he would undoubtedly have left the red sandstone where Werner placed it; for here the true old red sandstone of Werner contains the organized remains of at least one well-known phenogamous woody plant.”“ He also stated that this sandstone contained the petrified remains of the roots of the Kalmia latifolia, or common laurel! The gypsum and rocksalt beds of New York and Pennsylvania, now regarded as of Salina age, he included in this Secondary class, and also the common compact limestone occurring in the western part of New York State, but not found east of the Hudson River.
In the Superincumbent class were included, as already stated, greenstone trap, amygdaloid, and basalt, which he regarded as varieties of one and the same rock. This assumption on his part is interesting in connection with the discussion of the, last twenty years (since the introduction of the microscope into geology) regarding the now wellestablished relationship existing between basalt, melaphyr, and’ diabase. While these rocks were considered by him as volcanic, their exact source seemed problematic. ‘* On the Deerfield River the greenstone sinks down ina fissure in the red sandstone. * * * Bakewell would say here were volcanoes and here the melted greenstone was thrown up through the sandstone.”
In discussing his Alluvial class, he wrote:
It is agreed by all geologists that all soils, excepting what proceeds from decomposed animal and vegetable matter, are composed of the broken fragments of disintegrated rocks. From this fact it is natural to infer that the soil of any district might be known by the rocks out of which it is formed; consequently, that rocks abounding in quartz would produce a sandy soil and those abounding in argillaceous slate a clay soil, ete. * * * This inference is certainly correct, but there is great difficulty in determining what rocks may have extended over any particular district and been entirely dissolved in former ages. Is there not good reason to believe that most of the strata now constituting Catskill Mountain * * * once extended over Massachusetts to the Atlantic Ocean?
That these strata once extended as far as Massachusetts and united to the same strata at Pittsfield and Stockbridge he regarded as beyond question, and he concluded that a mass of rock from 1,000 to 3,000 feet in thickness, from 20 to 30 miles in breadth, and perhaps 80 miles in length, had been dissolved and mostly washed down the Hudson River. Fragments of every stratum he thought were still to be found in small masses throughout the towns in the vicinity. The possibility
“Concerning this Hall remarks (Geology of Fourth District, p. 6): ‘‘It is a remarkable fact that at this early period Mr. Eaton should have recognized the sandstone of the Catskill Mountains as the Old Red of Europe, which, now that we have identitied its characteristic fossils, is proved to be true.”’

<<<Page: 275>>>

of glacial drift was of course at that time wholly unrealized, and he accounted for the masses of granite and syenite, weighing from 1 to 50 tons, which are scattered throughout the Connecticut River region, as residuary fragments from atmospheric decomposition.
What force can have brought these masses from the western hills across a deep valley 700 feet lower than their present situation? Are we not compelled to say that this valley was once filled up so as to make a gradual descent from the Chesterfield range of granite, sienite, etc., to the top of Mount Tom? Then it would be easy to conceive of their being rolled down to the top of the greenstone, where we now find them.
In this year Eaton published also his Conjectures Respecting the Formation of the Earth. In this, largely following Werner, he taught that the water now covering three-fourths of the earth’s exterior was at one time thoroughly commingled with the solid materials constituting the globe in such a manner as to forma very thick paste. Such being the primary condition, the heaviest materials contained in this globular mass of mortar would soon begin slowly to settle together, the heaviest naturally at the center. Further, that such settling took place in inverse order of the specific gravities of particles, forming thus several concentric layers of metals, arranged like the coats of an onion. This settling went on until finally granite was deposited, several thousand years being regarded as necessary for the completion of all the strata. Previous to the deposition of granite, gneiss, mica-slate, and other primitive rocks, neither animals nor vegetables were conceived to exist, for no traces of them haye been discovered in the rocks of these types.
As condensation went on, the water being disengaged from the inner deposits and forced gradually toward the exterior of the mass, the earth paste became more diluted, and a few zoophytes, shell animals, and cryptogamous plants were created, as was shown by the finding _ of their remains in the transition rocks overlying the primitive.
The continued dilution of the water by the deposition of the materials of the transition series was followed by the creation of several species of fish, and as the solution was thinner the deposits of the secondary rocks went on with considerable rapidity. During this time the red sandstone, compact limestone, and indurated marl were deposited, entombing incidentally individuals of the various plants and animals enumerated.
While this secondary formation was going on the internal heat of the earth immediately beneath the granite, by converting the water which remained in the subterranean interstices into steam, began to raise up the rocks of granite. The expansion of this steam found relief by forcing its way wherever the least resistance was presented, and asstratacan be separated from each other easier than they can be broken through, the steam probably traveled laterally round the earth, separating the granite from the next stratum below. At length the force of the more highly rarefied steam became too great to be any longer confined within the coat of granite. It burst through at the weakest part and shot forth its craggy broken edges above the muddy waters which surrounded it.

<<<Page: 276>>>

Concerning the source of this heat, ‘‘ whether it arose from the admixture and combustion of substances then abounding beneath the granite,” or whether ‘‘it was excited by the concentric layers of metallic plates serving as a vast galvanic battery,” Eaton was noncommittal.
The projecting edges of granite, together with the uplifted strata of transition and secondary rocks, formed the first islands and continents of dry land. Alluvial deposits had already commenced under water, and therefore parts of the raised
islands and continents were prepared for the reception and support of plants and animals of the more perfectly organized structure.
These, however, were not the continents of the present day, which were conceived then to be at the bottom of the primeval ocean, but were rather the continents occupied by antediluvians, and which are now in their turn probably at the bottom of the Indian Ocean. This land, he argued may have been supported by the meeting place of two vast segments of uplifted granite which contained beneath them an immense subterranean sea. Our present continent may now be supported in the same way and the meeting of the edges of segments form the granitic ridge which extends from Georgia to the Frigid Zone— that is to say, that which forms the Appalachian Mountain system.
In whatever manner the ancient world was supported, it is evident that when the wickedness of man drew down the vengeance of the Almighty, its foundations gave way and it sank to the bottom of the ocean never to be again uplifted.
Incidental to this catastrophe, he conceived there may have been formed a ** vacuum wherein much water might subside;” or possibly several continents falling in contemporaneously, basins were formed— sufficient to hold all the waters which had hitherto covered the continents of our day; or, perhaps, the pressure at the outer margins of the falling continents might force up the granite, which raised our continents out of the ocean. * * * Atany rate, the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and our continents, then at the bottom of the great deep, emerged into open day. While this tremendous crash of nature was going on, scales of various thicknesses from the various strata were shot up, detached and broken, which gave formation to our surrounding hills, the ragged cliffs of the Catskill and the bleak brow of the Andes. Some were formed at the bottom of the sea by volcanic fires; others have arisen from various causes since the great deep retired.
This order of creation he conceived to be directly in accord with the account of Moses and the sinking of the ancient continent contemporaneous with the Noachian deluge.
When the fountains of the great deep were broken up and the bottoms of those fountains became dry land, the ancient world became itself the bottom of the great deep in its turn.
During this period all surviving animal life, both human and otherwise, was conceived as confined within the limits of Noah’s ark, about one year elapsing from the time the sinking took place and the ark was floated before the new earth was sufticiently dry for the occupants to disembark.

<<<Page: 277>>>

These conjectures, it will be observed, are not quite those of Werner, since the original paste constituting the globe must, according to Eaton, have been rather a mechanical admixture than a chemical solution. While the early stages of precipitation, whereby the heaviest materials were deposited in the form of concentric layers of metals, might be suggestive of a condition of solution or aqueo-igneous fusion, the subsequent deposition of the secondary rocks, which are so plainly fragmental, leaves us to conclude that he regarded the primary condition as that of a mechanical mixture or emulsion.
Eaton in his index deviated somewhat from Werner’s classification also in that he placed the argillaceous slates in the transition rather than in the primitive class.“
~The year 1819 was signalized by the organization, in the philosophical room of Yale College, of the American Geological Society, the first American society devoted mainly to geological and allied subjects. Though this continued in existence only until the end aso =| of 1828, it was productive of much good in stimulating workers throughout the country. Maclure was elected president, with Colonel Gibbs, Professor Silliman, Professor Cleaveland, Stephen Elliott, R. Gilmor, 5. Brown, and Robert Hare, vicepresidents. Among the more prominent members were Akerly, Bruce, Cornelius, S. L. and J. F. Dana, Dewey, Eaton, Godon, Hitchcock, Mitchill, Ratinesque, Schoolcraft, and Steinhauer, while the names of Emmons, Harlan, Lea, Morton, Troost, and Vanuxem appear among the younger and then less prominent workers.
The society published nothing and has left little that is tangible to tell of its existence, though Eaton, in the second edition of his Index to the Geology of the Northern States, makes the following interesting comment concerning its personnel: .
The president of the American Geological Society, William M’Clure, esq., has already struck out the grand outline of North American geographical geology. The first vice-president, Col. G. Gibbs, has collected more facts and amassed more geological and mineralogical specimens than any other individual of the age. The second vice-president, Professor Silliman, his learned and indefatigable colleague in these labors, gives the true scientific dress to all the naked mineralogical subjects, which are furnished to his hand. The third vice-president, Professor Cleaveland, is successfully employed in elucidating and familiarizing those interesting sciences; and thus smoothing the rugged paths of the student Professor Mitchill has amassed a large store of materials, and annexed them to the labors of Cuvier and Jameson. But the drudgery of climbing cliffs and descending into fissures and caverns and of traversing in all directions our most rugged mountainous districts to ascertain the distinctive characters, number, and order of our strata has devolved on me. I make
no pretensions to any peculiar qualifications other than that bodily health and constitutional fitness for labor and fatigue which such an employment requires.
“Silliman in his review of the work (American Journal of Science, I, 1819, p. 70) called attention to the fact that the clay slate may belong either to primitive, transition, or secondary formations. He also questioned if the West Stockbridge marble should not be regarded as primitive rather than metalliferous.

<<<Page: 278>>>

During the years 1818 and 1819 Henry R. Schoolcraft made a trip throughout what is now known as the lead region of the Mississippi Valley, and in November of the last-named year published, in the
Seis form of an octavo volume of some 300 pages, a book choolcraft’s 3 ° . : 5 r* : Explorations, entitled A View of the Lead Mines of Missouri;
Including Some Observations on the Mineralogy, Geology, Geography, Antiquities, Soil, Climate, Population, and Productions of Missouri and Arkansas and Other Sections of the Western Country. The work contained little of geological importance, the purport of the trip being mainly to study the lead deposits of the region. He described the whole mineral country as ‘‘ bottomed” on primitive limestone, though he found quartz rock and later sand rock very common in the southern section of the Arkansas country. Secondary limestone was also met with, but was far less common than in Ohio, Indiana, Connecticut, and Illinois, the ore itself being found in the decomposition products from the primitive limestone. He mentioned the occurrence of granite in Washington and Madison counties, also greenstone porphyry and iron ore, and correctly described the granite as being the only mass of its kind known to exist between the primitive ranges of the Allegheny and Rocky mountains, being surrounded on all sides and to an almost immeasurable extent with secondary limestone. He gave also a descriptive catalogue of the minerals found in the State. Among them mention was made of the flint from Girardeau County; several varieties of quartz, including the Arkansas novaculite; a red pipestone from the Falls of St. Anthony, which is evidently the catlinite of more recent writers, but which he called steatite; and other minerals, including baryte, fluorite, blende, antimony, native copper, etc. He described briefly the micaceous iron ore of Iron Mountain, the coal found near Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, and other minerals which need not be mentioned in detail.
Schoolcraft was one of those all-round naturalists and investigators such as could exist only in the early days of science, when it was possible for one mind to embrace or include all knowledge, keep track of its development, and at the same time aid in its advancement. A man apparently of more than ordinary vigor, daring, and perseverence, he early became interested in the work of exploration, his field being, however, limited mainly to the Mississippi Valley and the region of the Great Lakes. His geological work was purely of the reconnaissance type, but was of the greatest value in the then existing condition of knowledge regarding the regions visited, the lead regions of the
Fic. 6.—Henry Rowe Schoolcraft.

<<<Page: 279>>>

of Lake Superior both prof-
10nNS
Valley and the copper regi
iting by his labors.
ississipp1
Being brought in contact with the aborigines and realizing the
gh con-
taminated thr
Ing con
were becom
h they
ith whi
ity wl
rapl
” Ta
8 wopFurqseyy Of uroiy 4
H SoudUy dT '
t¢]—_}+-— — PAQHOPEAL
puwaguend vnbnvjywy 9:7
oAtOR \ ~ siondou!
S yuotne]y7a6 MeN
ral So)0g wT, 0YNT wy, 4288 youn} sovs
opny3u0T
78/PuvIs] HOO
‘O@8T UL oyNOI S4yBIO[OOYOS SurMoys dey—y, ‘org
Hog poe / SNVIONI\XO4
He Antes 3a» Po
°aaey10g
a IY /(F=\Co)
Homi
OBDQIUION (sells
aaviy: “A go}};0nbie
OE dl HOMUAABAT “To, 5
a00ug aYDT mE wr
aay a
“SSp\esnoH A001g 8. ONT
y ar seskeo eadojsautly AiBpuoseg
| ie} N
LAD ttasa=0p 82a WHON ©
~ (sr heaee9H OTLUAd NS
Be et CEC): Cry Seana
Buurdt 919307R)
xnesdi (inl
ELEY g L 3
AS is ayp Cp 7 7 5 DuresDp 3 9 sayny Aumy {ISS ae . Oo1x9FH JOIIND 43 IN Be0e adilresrestyy 073 fo Ba04un0g
| . . ue
yn por \ SOOM AHL YO, THVT
. peers
tact with the whites, he was drawn into a study of the Indian tribes
gave up-a large por-
The main work of his life lies, therefore, quite
ts of the present paper.
after 1822. he
of North America, to which work,
tion of his time. outside the lim
NAT mus 1904——16

<<<Page: 280>>>

In 1820 Schoolcraft, acting under direction of Governor Lewis Cass, of Michigan, who was himself acting under authority of the then Secretary of War, made a trip along the Great Lakes and to the sources
(Se i=} > i}
ad 2 S
A SKETCH OF THE WESTERN COUNTRY. Fic. 8.—Map of Schoolcraft’s travels in 1821 (1825)
>. er WS
v Vincennes.
PS <= Ct MAUVAIS
oSt.(enevieves
Nashville
-Girar
of the Mississipppi, the results of which, with general notes on the natural history of the region, were published the year following.

<<<Page: 281>>>

In 1821 he was a member of a second expedition authorized by the General Government to explore the central portions of the Mississippi Vallev, the results of which were published in 1825. In 1822 he also reported to the General Government on the extent and value of the mineral lands on Lake Superior, and again in 1832 ‘‘resumed and completed” his explorations of the sources of the Mississippi, his results appearing in book form in 1855.
The expedition of 1820 (See map, fig. 7) started at Detroit and made its way northward along the western shores of lakes St. Clair andHuron to the Straits of Michilimackinac, thence northward through St. Marys River and along the south shore of Lake Superior to Fond du Lac, up the St. Louis River, and down the Savannah to Sandy Lake and lakes Winnipeg and Cassina farther north. The return trip was made down the Mississippi to the lead region near Dubuque, Iowa, and thence northeasterly up the Wisconsin River to Green Bay, where
Fic. 9.—Schoolcraft’s Section of Presque Isle.
the party divided, a portion going to Michilimackinac (now Mackinac), along the northern and eastern shores, and the rest keeping to the south, to Chicago, and eastward and north till the starting point was reached once more, one section of the party, with Governor Cass, leaving the lake near the southeastern end (at the mouth of the River du Schmein) and going overland to Detroit.
The narrative of the expedition of 1820 abounds with mineralogical and geological notes, which are in large part, however, of a supposed economic nature. The occurrence of gypsum at St. Martins Island was noted, the island of Michilimackinac itself being of ‘* transition and compact” limestone. A colored section was given showing the relative position of granite and overlying sandstone between Presque Isle and Garlic River (fig. 9). The sandstone he described as overlapping the granite and fitting into its irregularities in a manner that ‘*shows it to have assumed that position subsequently to the upheaying of the granite.” The age of this sand rock he was unable to satis

<<<Page: 282>>>

factorily determine, though its position seemed to him to indicate a near alliance to the ‘t Old red sandstone.” @
He described the finding of the large block of native copper (now in the U.S. National Museum in Washington), upon the edge of the Ontonagon River, giving a picture and offering some remarks on the probable origin of the same. In his report to Secretary J. C. Calhoun, under this same date, made with reference to the copper mines of Lake Superior, Schoolcraft dwelt in some detail upon the occurrence of frequent masses of drift copper, but stated that no body of the metal sufficiently extensive to mine profitably had been discovered. He, however, regarded it as probable that a more intimate knowledge of the resources of the country might result in the discovery of valuable ores of copper, in the working of which ‘* occasional masses and veins of the native metal may materially enhance the advantage of mining.” This prediction, it is scarcely necessary to say, has been abundantly verified. .
Writing on the prevailing theories as to the origin and distribution of metals and gems, he remarked, ‘*‘ There is no reason that can be drawn from philosophical investigations to prove that these substances may not be abundantly found in the climates of the north, even upon the banks of the frozen ocean,” their distribution being apparently wholly independent of climatic conditions.
The Dubuque lead ore he described as occurring in detached masses in the ocherous alluvial soil resting upon a calcareous rock referable to the Transition class (in the revision of his work, published in 1832, he made this Carboniferous), and also in veins penetrating the rock. The relationship existing between the rock and the residual clay did not seem, however, to have been recognized.’
The presence of extensive beds of coal about 40 miles southwest of Chicago, on the Fox River, was noted. The fact that bricks, made from clay occurring near Chicago, turned white was also noted, and explained on the ground that they were lacking in iron oxides.¢
In his ‘* Travels” Schoolcraft advanced the idea that there had been at some former period an obstruction in the channel of the Mississippi River at or near Grand Tower, in southern Illinois, whereby there was produced a stagnation of the current at an elevation of about 130
«The correct position of this sandstone remained long a matter of doubt and dispute. It is now considered as of Potsdam age.
> Since this mode of occurrence was referred to by subsequent explorers, it may be well to state here that the ore was originally in the limestone, from which it was liberated by decomposition and left to accumulate in the residual clay, representing the insoluble constituents.
¢This has since been shown to be an error. These clays contain as much iron as others that may burn red. It is probable that, in the process of firing, this iron combines to form an iron-lime-magnesian silicate and is not oxidized to the extent of imparting the common brick-red color,

<<<Page: 283>>>

feet above the present ordinary watermark. This was made sufficiently evident to him by the general elevation and direction of the hills, which for several hundred miles above are separated by a valley from 20 to 25 miles wide. Wherever these hills disclosed rocky and precipitous fronts a series of distinctly-marked old water lines were observed. The Grand Tower and the contiguous promontories were regarded as but the dilapidated remains of this barrier. On the breaking away of the obstructions the water gradually receded into existing channels, by which the inland sea was gradually drained.
One of the most curious features of this paper lies in his pronounced acceptation of the accuracy of the various reports relative to the finding of living animals embedded in rocks of considerable geological antiquity. He mentioned the finding at Carthage, on the Genesee, of twelve or fifteen frogs embedded in a layer of packed clay marl about 9 feet below the surface, where they had apparently been buried since the diluvial era; also the finding of one ina geode in the Niagara limestone at Lockport. As bearing upon the same subject, he gave in his addenda a series of accounts of the finding of various living animals under equally impossible conditions, which he seems to accept without question.
In 1819-20 Maj. Stephen H. Long, under the direction of John C. Calhoun, Secretary of War, made an expedition from Pittsburg to the Rocky Mountains. With him were associated Thomas Say,
entomologist, and Edwin James, botanist and geoloLong’s Expedition, cist. The accounts of the expedition, compiled by
Mr. James, contain numerous references to the geology otf the region, which are of interest, considering the time at which they were made. The route of the expedition lay from Pittsburg down the Ohio to its mouth, up the Mississippi to St. Louis, and northwestward to Council Bluffs; thence westward along the Platte and South Platte to a point a little west of the one hundred and fifth meridian and north of the thirty-fifth parallel; across to the Arkansas, which was followed down to a point a little east of the one hundred and fourth meridian, where the party divided, one returning by the Arkansas and the other by the Canadian River.
The reports on geology were, naturally, largely tinged with W ernerism. It was noted that, in the vicinity of the Rocky Mountains, only Secondary rocksoccurred, Transition forms being entirely lacking. He noted, first, the occurrence of red sandstone resting immediately on the granite, rather indistinctly stratified, the strata sometimes inclined and sometimes horizontal; second, argillaceous or gray sandstone overlying the red and conforming to it in its inclination and carrying sometimes coal and iron; third, floetz trap, including greenstone and amygdaloid; and fourth, sand and gravel resting on the sandstones and extending over the Great Desert, this latter material being recognized as a product of

<<<Page: 284>>>

1904.
‘0Z-6IST ‘SuOIpedxe s,Su07T Jo de{—OT “91
and which he
riod when the waters
,—t—-F ~ Nea pysarmaig, 5 Soony \ © W VA ! = suaqry\o (Aa \ o UNITE MEd : 635 wae NY Sat ¥ =| * \ \ H b ee A 2 5 > a ALE} \O See “so 2 a. NS a oye aan i wus. wo N & Be} : po! im WAeueY Ee 3 aa oe) Ry NBLEONY gg os oN NQA/ ro es youy? os G aja eLIAUSBN/S 3 PE Se yoy arson ei ere yar Q ° wot las S £ ee > Lana bo -sipiaio * 7 SF arc A <4 8 : < ry eae Ax — 7 } 1 dao BA Mee ee mas a7 5 5 smash Soi 9 > es os PS) ow ea Y pussy 5 8 if Vy] Kaeqry 42 = i;
z ay °nostpe
| eS CN CEC ING 10,201 40, ; \P eae! Y = 3 pysamyoulo | . a EN > [eqrauey a
“a = wey frauosyour {3 [N Ol Hee Z aangHOUEL suo) ofuox, “ywouaont 3 ‘ip ornare 3 . { onl WH Phoduderpay 1n3e9eq/o < q 3 S Koen vAN mA A. sie al ayittde, at S gogsevay one Ewan ue \
CRS 5 oC a 2 + Pre j
oS SSSR ieheeetd “ommes gang mmemyd |S TQ) L201] Aaatory| {l aed ¢ aangered Bayer Mig act 0) ES ry orr810S, SomoK4y | 10,Znym00] aed Suojsarang. | i) singe nal oyyaneaners am et | Sac ROSOT niga, ——
I poze Sassy) \ aysavy © ONT 10, ait ae ! K\ is a nou a4 @ 6 nasa | Syoyaug oplyyearl au ker 0d pana UPL \ BALIN Wy id BD wo00ilV|,, rina! sory OWL? “Kerpaa b NO) Late Leet me Sanr Suma TIRED AE eS x mowssunony® | © ssaenpnys— J pu eRNES uUaION/oypto£| SUH”, dias, f somron Fed } ee anyesPlo (=Zgopayol 14 | © os. YNo\ MON oon spied Ope WHEL { © “ig jo yaks wren * NE \ Uf — x 7/39) omBpy Houle iN 73 140 qollear gy OV Vo I sree autese ae osprey a“ BISA aay nosaper commurntt | lV osqooy? 8 Z NY Ya a Y Gj 2 N° omnarp.o(eale \\\ PS. AQ enbnqng A419 xnorg & S pe ue oR ra ie <I deat THIN il ~ \\\gatora [ettrasenwe i \ EOIS & ap © oN Era sg == amos |S So sawy? | epideu)peers gaanuaytt uospeig rt 5 t ON Ss aso ayer” |e 7 aon ee reer a g % o~ i oR Nga ZZ Yoantt POM woe r NISNOOSTAN™ "5 qo) z Zt oxen? \ \}a—-—--: = ~—_ aes oe = o © 3 2s) 2s! ~~
The inclined position of
of the primeval ocean covered the level of the Great Plain and the
lower regions of the granitic mountains.”

<<<Page: 285>>>

some of these Secondary rocks in the immediate vicinity of the mountains was noted, but some difficulty found in accounting for the same. **Subsequent to the deposition of these horizontally stratified rocks,” he wrote, ‘‘their position has been somewhat changed, either by the action of some force beneath the primitive rocks, forcing them up to a greater elevation than they formerly possessed, or by the sinking down of the Secondary, produced by the operation of some cause equally unknown.” This matter he again referred to, thinking it possible, though scarcely probable, that the great and abrupt change in the inclination of the strata in the parts near the granite might be due to the gradual wearing away by the agency of rivers of some portion of the sandstone, and that those rocks now found in an inclined position were detached portions of what was formerly the upper part of the strata which, having been undermined on their eastern side and supported by the granite on the western side, had fallen into their present position.
The presence of coal beds in the region of the Ozark Mountains was noted, and the associated limestones were set down as of Carboniferous age, as was also the limestone of the region of the lead mines.
An important suggestion was made relative to the possibility of obtaining water through bore holes sunk in the arid tract lying west of the Ozark Mountains. ‘‘It is not improbable,” he wrote, ‘* that BRE oa ie the strata of many parts of this secondary formation as to Artesian toward its exterior circumference may vary from a
horizontal to an inclined position, in consequence of which the water that falls in dew and rains in the hilly districts, becoming insinuated between ‘curved stratifications, may descend toward the center of the formation under such circumstances as would insure its rising to the surface through well or bore holes sunk sufficiently to penetrate the veins.”
The rocks of the Allegheny Mountains were classified as granular limestone, metalliferous limestones, transition, argillite, and sandstone. The report was accompanied by a volume of plates, which included geological sections on the thirty-fifth and forty-first parallels (fig. 11). These were intended to form continuations of Maclure’s third and fifth sections, already noted (p. 228).
The second volume of Silliman’s American Journal of Science, issued this year, had a long article by the editor—Sketches of. a Tour in the Counties of New Haven and Litchfield, Conn., with notices of the eae piesNotiah Geology, Mineralogy, and Scenery—in which are deSilliman, Olmsted, scribed the various rocks passed over, among others and Atwater. ‘ weverte : 33 } Wo
the ‘‘primitive white marble” near New Milford. He described this as ‘‘a perfectly distinct bed in gneiss, which is found on both sides of it, and, of course, both above and below it,” a sensible admixture of the two rocks being perceptible for some feet on both sides of the junction.

<<<Page: 286>>>

may have been
is hat the associations
inions
d op
preconcelve
Just what Silliman ipparent, but he remarked
fied way t
sat ted
In a
what he had anticipa
were exac
(‘SouIBe ULM pA 19qy7yV )
‘suIB]UNOW APY oy} 0) AusySal[[y oy} WOIJ SUOTIOVY [BoIsO[O9H—'TT ‘DIA
uDe0g 9y) Jo 10027 Z 3 s oaryImMtg tn i aw £ “ty CE gS eg
2 ye
: i Mitton ell
3 swivinnow ANZHO
"q1IOU sodISep GE opnyaTyeyT Jo Telteavg oy} UO UOTIOES [woTAIEA
“TMOJSTIYSEAA WOLJ 489A SpPNgt#uory Lb € gL 3 (Ar
! oe? z | J ow ae) {HNL TIANITY we ooh {loos (W/ fh) gon” Uh z = Ss qf asp 09 U7 & willl, 4 8 = iS |, 20° a" 2 , Qt eo00't 2 mm ass 5 , Amphibiolite; Genus IV, Ichthyolite; Genus V, Entomolite; Genus VI, Helmintholite; Genus VII, Concholite; Genus VIII, Erismatolite; Genus IX, Phytolite. .
In 1821 Eaton was employed by S. Van Rensselaer to make a geological and agricultural survey of Rensselaer County, New York. His report, printed in 1822, formed an octavo pamphlet of 70 pages, and
was accompanied by a geological section, extending Roteuclaer County, from the Onondaga Salt Springs across the county to
Williams College in Massachusetts. The first thirty pages of the report were given up to discussions of the character and distribution of the various kinds of rocks and soils, and the remainder to methods of culture and an agricultural calendar.
The rocks of the county, as well as those of Washington County on the north and of Columbia County on the south, were regarded as chiefly belonging to the transition formations. Secondary limerock resting on the graywacke was found in Schaghticoke about four miles east of the Hudson and in the northern part of Greenbush. As to whether the argillite along the eastern margin of the county was transition or primary, he was in doubt. As with his contemporaries, he based his opinions largely upon lithological data, quite failing to vealize that rocks of widely varying age may more or less resemble each other, according to local conditions and the amount of metamorphism they may have undergone. Passing westward from Williams College, the various rocks met with, as shown in his section, and described are (1) granular and primitive limestone, (2) metalliferous or transition limestone, (3) argillite, (4) metalliferous limestone again, (5) a second band of argillite, (6) graywacke with sporadic patches of (7) compact secondary limestone, (8) secondary or calcareous sandstone, and (9) argillaceous graywacke, semi-indurated argillite, and clay slate. The first three were represented with steep westerly dips passing under the graywacke, which constitutes the principal formation.
On November 17, 1820, the Hon. J. B. Gibson read a paper before the American Philosophical Society, which was published in the Transactions of that year, on the trap rocks of the Conewago Hills
near Middletown, Dauphin County, and Stony Ridge a ae Red ts20, «near Carlisle, Dauphin County, Pennsylvania. He
described the mode of weathering into bowlders, and rightly argued that such was due wholly to atmospheric agencies and did not indicate an original concretionary structure. He seemed to regard the columnar structure in this class of rocks as due also to decomposition, mentioning as an example the columns of the Giant’s Causeway, ‘which exhibit regular prismatic form only when it has long been exposed to the action of the atmosphere.”

<<<Page: 287>>>

He did not regard the trap of the Conewago Hills as igneous, but that of Stony Hill presented to him an appearance more decisively voleanic. This did not, however, necessarily mean that there may have once existed a crater here.
These observations of Gibson relative to the mode of decomposition of the trappean rock are of interest when taken in connection with observations of other individuals of about this period in North Carolina.
It appears that the attention of the Rev. James Halland Zachariah Lewis had been called to what are now known to be small trappean dikes on the Yadkin River, near Salisbury, which had undergone decomposition into small bowlder-like masses. The fact that these dikes had at one time occupied rifts in older rocks which had largely disappeared through decomposition, leaving them standing in walllike masses, entirely escaped the observation of the two gentlemen named, and they were consequently described as probably of human workmanship.
In response toa request of Dr. Samuel L. Mitchill, Mr. John Beckwith made an examination of the occurrences and reported the result in a letter printed in the American Journal of Science for 1522. Beckwith described in considerable detail the occurrence of the dikes and the stages of transition from the solid bowlder-like masses to the supposed interstitial cement. While apparently not realizing completely the fact that their then appearance might be due to decomposition, his description is such as to leave no doubt in the mind of the present reader. As to the exact character of the material itself, he was somewhat at a loss, but, on the whole, inclined to believe it to be basaltic, though perhaps of aqueous rather than ignecus origin.
The work of Thomas Nuttall merits attention here only on account of the time of its accomplishment. Nuttall himself was not a geologist, nor can he be considered an American. His principal work was SO of a botanical and ornithological nature, the paper, Peron: Observations on the Geological Structure of the Valley
of the Mississippi, being his sole contribution to the literature of geology. This was read before the Philadelphia Academy in December, 1820, and in its printed form occupies 38 pages of the journal of the society.
Nuttall’s travels took him along the southern shore of Lake Erie to Detroit; thence by canoe along the coast of Lake Huron to Michilimackinae; thence southwestward to Green Bay, Wisconsin, and by way of the Fox and Wisconsin (Ouisconsin) rivers to the Mississippi, near Prairie du Chien, and southward to St. Louis. This and other trips up the Missouri and Arkansas rivers gave him ample opportunity for such superticial observations as he was competent to make. ‘These observations consisted largely of conjectures as to the geographic

<<<Page: 288>>>

limits of the secondary formations, which he found here to consist mainly of limestone strongly resembling the mountain limestone of Derbyshire in England, and he announced himself as ‘* fully satisfied that almost every fossil shell figured and described in the Petrifica Derbiensia of Martin” was to be met with throughout the great calcareous platform of the Mississippi Valley. The limits and character of the ‘‘ Ancient Marine Alluvium,” its fossil and mineral contents were discussed; the essay concluding with some observations on the Transition Mountains of Arkansas, with brief notes on the hone slate of Washita.
In 1820 there appeared also H. H. Hayden’s Geological Essays. These are of especial interest as dealing particularly with the Tertiary and more recent alluvial deposits of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, form-
ing what is now known as the coastal plain. The work Mayden’s Essays, js verbose in the extreme and more arguinentative than
logical. Indeed, were it not for its historical interest and for the light which is thrown upon the crudities of early observation and deduction, it would be scarcely worth considering at all.
After referring to the geographical limits of this coastal plain, as defined and mapped by Maclure, and combating the opinions of previous observers to the effect that it was formed by flood tides and the winds acting on materials cast up by the sea or through the transporting powers of the great rivers, Hayden proceeded to elaborate his own theories in a way as ingenious as it now seems improbable. ‘* Viewing the subject in all its bearings, there is no circumstance that affords so strong evidence of the cause of the formation (i. e., the coastal plain) as that of its having been deposited by a general current, which at some unknown period flowed impetuously across the whole continent of America, and that from northeast to southwest.” The course of this current he assumed depended on that of the general current of the Atlantic Ocean, the waters of which rose to such a height that ‘‘it overran its ancient limits and spread desolation on its adjacent shores.”
In seeking a cause for this general current the author referred, first, to the seventh chapter of the book of Genesis, ‘‘ For yet seven days, and I will cause it to vazn upon the earth forty days and forty nights, and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the Jace of the earth.” We then proceeded to show the inadequacy of this cause alone; the water being thus equally distributed over the ocean and the land, there ‘‘could be no tendency to cause a current in the former.” Some other cause must therefore be sought, and fortunately his imagination proved equal to the task.
Accepting as probable the suggestion of ‘‘a writer of no common celebrity,” presumably Kirwan, to the effect that the cause of the general deluge was the melting of the ice at the two poles of the earth,

<<<Page: 289>>>

and that this was occasioned by the sun deviating from the ecliptic, he proceeded to explain in his own way how this might be brought about, though acknowledging that no positive testimony could possibly be adduced to substantiate the fact.
Having admitted the possibility of the earth’s changing its position so that the sun would pass ‘‘immediately over the two poles upon an unknown meridian,” he showed that there would then result a rapid dissolution of the existing ice caps, such as would yield an ample supply of material, it being only necessary to give it direction. Considering as essential to the problem only the northern hemisphere, he remarked that from this polar cap there are but two outlets—the one into the Pacific Ocean through the narrow Bering Strait and the other through the wider channel between Greenland and Lapland into the Atlantic. Hence, when the melting ensued, by far the larger volume of water passed into the latter ocean.
No sooner was this operation established, and this accession of strength and power thrown into the Atlantic Ocean in particular, than its tide began to rise above its common limits accompanied by a consequent current, both constantly increasing, the one in height and the other in rapidity, proportioned to the increase of power at the focus. * * * Atthe commencement of this frightful drama the current, it is highly probable, was divided by the craggy heights of Spitzbergen and a part thrown into the White Sea, while the other was thrown back upon the eastern and southern coast of Greenland, and from thence in a southwestern direction until it struck the southeastern coast of Labrador, along which it swept through: the straits of Belle Isle, across Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, and along the Atlantic coast into the Gulf of Mexico. * * * In ashort space of time, the southern and eastern coast of Labrador, over which this current was urged with increasing force, was desolated. The soil * * * was hurled adriftand * * * carried across the country into the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and across a part of New England ito the sea, or general current of the ocean. Continuing to rise, the waters swept across Davis Strait and rolled their tumultuous surges into Hudson Bay, embracing the whole coast of Labrador, while the unequal current of the St. Lawrence was forced back and upward to its parent source. * * *
At length the floods of the pole forming a junction with Baffins Bay and the Arctic Sea, defying all bounds, overran their ancient limits and hurled their united forces, in dread confusion, across the bleak regions of the north to consummate the awtul scene. Thus lakes and seas uniting formed one common ocean which was propelled with inconceivable rapidity across the continent between the great chain of mountains into the Gulf of Mexico and probably over the unpeopled wilds of South America into the Southern Ocean. Fulfilled in this way were the awful denunciations of an offended God, by the sure extermination of every beast of the field and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the face of the earth.
The argument used to substantiate or in favor of the probability of the above causes can not be dwelt upon here. But to these causes he believed to be due not merely the alluvial deposits of the coastal plain, but as well the barrenness of soil of the rocks in Labrador and the northeastern portion of the continent, and also the general phenomena of the glacial drift, the bowlders of the latter being conceived as transported by floating ice.
NAT Mus 1904——17

<<<Page: 290>>>

While all this was taking place on the American continent, the material supplied by the melting of the south Polar ice cap was finding its way northward over Asia, carrying with it to northern Siberia the mammoth, rhinoceros, and other gigantic animal remains now there found. In this last, it will be observed, he followed Pallas.
The opinion held by many to the effect that the deltas of rivers were composed exclusively of alluvion brought down in the course of time and deposited at their mouths, he regarded as ‘‘a flagrant dereliction from truth and every principle of sound reasoning and established fact.” Such he regarded as formed in part of natural alluvion of the rivers, in part of wind-blown sand and dust, and in part of waste from the fields due to cultivation and the cutting away of forests. Thus early he recognized the importance of man as a geological agent, and ulso that of the wind. He nowhere in the whole 150 pages of the discussion, however, recognized the now well-known fact that deltas are formed only at the mouths of rivers emptying into tideless seas.
Strangely enough, although one of the earliest to recognize the extent and importance of the alluvial formations, Hayden seems to have had very hazy notions regarding the origin of their materials. The belief held by many to the effect that every species of rock is liable to a slow but progressive form of disintegration and decomposition was to him rank heresy, as ‘‘tantamount to a libel against the letter and spirit of Holy Writ.” Not but that some rocks may indeed decompose, such as the ‘‘ micaceous schistus,” but *‘ granite and other rocks of like nature, where the quartz feldspar and mica are perfectly combined, are practically indestructible;” and the arguments he used to prove this are precisely those used to-day to prove the rapidity of the destructive process—that is, the evidence furnished by old stone monuments and buildings. Blinded by his religious prejudices and preconceived notions, he refused to accept proof of such decay, even when confronted by it in unmistakable forms, referring to such as but the ** débris of the incompact or imperfectly formed mass that served as the covering, as it were, of the rocks, and which, being destitute of a cement, had fallen away to sand.”
Even that ‘‘the soil which covers the face of the earth was produced by the disintegration of rocks” was to him an opinion unfounded both in natural as well as in moral philosophy, and betrayed a want of attention to the plans of the Omnipotent. ** Who can or will contend that the mountains of our earth are becoming more and more depressed by the disintegration of the rocks of which they are composed? * * * Fortunately, however, it is not so. The Great Author of Nature intended it otherwise, and they are, and ever have heen, the same in height, in all human probability, that they were from the commencement of time.”

<<<Page: 291>>>

Hayden was the first to suggest the name Zernury for formations of alluvial origin and more recent than the secondary. The secondary formations he regarded as ‘‘the results of a natural operation;” that is, as natural deposits from water, probably in a state of perfect tranquility. The alluvial, on the other hand, were the results of ‘*accidental operations.”
These essays were very favorably reviewed by Silliman in the third volume (1821) of his journal, even the idea of the fusion of the polar ice ‘ap being allowed to pass with no more serious criticism than to suggest that the flood of waters might have been produced through the expulsion of the same from cavities in the earth. J. E. De Kay, writing in 1828, ventured, however, to take exception to some of the expressed views regarding drift bowlders. He wisely suggested that since the speculative part of geology is but a series of hypotheses we should in every case admit that which explains the phenomena in the simplest possible manner. To his mind the simplest manner of explaining the presence of bowlders of primitive rocks scattered over a secondary or alluvial region was to suppose that such had been, as igneous materials, extruded through all superincumbent strata, forming peaks which have since been destroyed by some convulsion of nature or by the resistless tooth of time, the bowlders thus being but fragments which had escaped destruction, though their place of extrusion had become completely obscured.
Hayden’s career was varied and interesting. Early thrown on his own resources, with an ardent desire for knowledge and craving for travel, he went to sea at the age of fourteen, making two voyages to the West
Indies, after which he reSketch of Hayden. turned to his school and his
books. When sixteen years of age he was bound out to an apprenticeship with an architect, with whom he served until he reached his majority, when he once more sailed for the West Indies and established himself at Point 4 Pitre in Guadeloupe Island, one of the Lesser Antilles. Ill health, however, finally drove him back to America, where he found employment in his profession in Connecticut and New York, with occasional intervals of teaching, in which, it was stated, he was very successful.
Through accident his attention was turned to dentistry, and with no preliminary training and only such knowledge as could be gained by reading, he established himself in the practice of that profession in Baltimore, somewhere about 1824, being then, it will be observed, between fifty and sixty years of age. In this work he is represented as
Fic. 12.—Horace H. Hayden.

<<<Page: 292>>>

being highly successful, rising rapidly in public confidence and holding the highest professional rank in the city. When the American Society of Dental Surgeons was established, he became its first president. Aside from his profession he devoted himself to studies in physiology and pathology, as well as geology.
To Volney and Mitchill’s hypotheses (mentioned on p. 232) to the effect that the deep gorge of the Potomac at Harpers Ferry, of the Hudson at West Point, the Delaware near Easton, the Schuylkill Wie ope ware northwest of Hamburg, and the Susquehanna below to Hypotheses of Harrisbure, were torn open by the pressure of the
waters of Lake Ontario, Mr. J. W. Wilson, in the American Journal of Science for 1821, took exception. He gave altitudes showing that the waters of the supposed lake could never have risen within 500 feet of the summit of the highlands at West Point without discharging over the summits of the mountains at Harrisburg; or through Lake Champlain into the Sorel and St. Lawrence before rising within 1,400 feet of Butler Hill, near West Point. These were good arguments, but the explanations offered by Mr. Wilson were in themselves by no means satisfactory. ‘‘Is not” he wrote ‘‘the best theory of the earth, that the Creator, in the beginning, at least at the general deluge, formed it with all its present grand characteristic features?” To this the editor (Silliman) responded in a footnote that ‘*The Creator undoubtedly brought all matter into being and established the laws which govern it; the operation of those laws then is always a fair subject of discussion, and although it is the shortest it is not the most ¢nstructive course to cut the knot where it may be watied.”
Early accounts of the geology and mineralogy of North America were eagerly seized upon by foreign scientists, as well as those inter-_ ested from a spirit of gain only. Thus, in 1822 there was published in Hamburg, in the form of a small octavo pamphlet of 124 pages, a series of extracts from the American Journal of Science and Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences, entitled Beitrage’) Zur Mineralogie u. Geologie’ des | Nordlichen America’s) nach’ Amerikanischen Zeitschriften bearbeitet| von Heinrich von Struve. The articles abstracted were Schoolcraft’s account of the native copper on the north shores of Lake Superior;“ A. G. Jessup’s geological and mineralogical observations on a portion of the northern border of New York;’ Vanuxem’s description and analyses of the Wollastonite (Taffelspath’s) of Willsborough, New York;? John Dixon’s mineralogical and geological observations on a part of North and South Carolina; Gerard Troost’s description of a mineral resembling amber found in the sands
« American Journal of Science, III, 1821, No. 2. > Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, December, 1821,

<<<Page: 293>>>

of Cape Sable; and miscellaneous notes on the geology and mineralogy of North America from the same publishers.? There was also given a description of a collection of North American minerals. A little over four pages were devoted to a description of the marbles of Pennsylvania; Connecticut; Vermont; Stockbridge, Massachusetts; and Thomaston, Maine, the descriptions being naturally limited to specimens and not to their occurrence in the field.
In 1822 Dr. Thomas Cooper, president of South Carolina College, published in the American Journal of Science an article of nearly forty pages, giving his views on volcanoes and volcanic substances. (nee He defined a volcano as a natural vent in the crust of Ideas Concerning the earth, made by subterranean fires to afford exit for gases, vapors, and solid substances that have been exposed to the action of intense heat in the bowels of the earth. The seat of the volcano he believed to be below or within the oldest granite. In action, the volcano is described as giving off smoke and flame derived from contact with coal strata, the eruption being usually accompanied by electric light, the source of which he acknowledged as problematical. Compared with all this error, his recognition as lavas of the porphyries in the vicinity of Boston and the Triassic traps of the eastern United States stands out in remarkable contrast.
Cooper, or ** Old Coot,” as he was called during the period of his activity at the South, seems to have been a queer character—‘‘a learned, ingenious, scientific, and talented madcap,” as President Adams is
said to have called him. He Sketch of Cooper. was not a geologist, except-
ing in books, but rather an educator and theorist. He was born in London in 1759 and educated at Oxford, where he paid chief attention to the classics, though his inclination was for the sciences. He came to America in 1795 and settled down for a time to the practice of law at Northampton, Pennsylvania.
A restless, aggressive spirit soon took him into the political field, where the violence of his newspaper attacks caused him at one time to be imprisoned for six months and fined. After his release he was appointed first land commissioner and then judge, being removed from the latter office for arbitrary conduct. He then turned his attention to chemistry and became in turn professor of chemistry in Dickinson College in Carlisle, professor of chemistry and mineralogy
Fic. 13.—Thomas Cooper.

<<<Page: 294>>>

chemistry, mineralogy, natural philosophy, and law (!) in the University of Virginia. At the last named place he served from 1817 to 1820, being finally forced to resign on account of the opposition to his liberal teachings on the part of the Presbyterians.
From Charlottesville he went to Columbia, South Carolina, where he served as professor of chemistry (1820-21) and then as president (1821-1834), being here again compelled to resign for his violent liberalism in matters relating to science and religion. Queerly enough, a committee appointed by the State legislature in 1831 to investigate his conduct with a view to his removal failed to make out a case, and the charges were dismissed. His final undoing would seem to have been parallel with that of the sick man whose case his physician was unable to diagnose specifically and the record of whose death was put down to ‘S general cussedness.”
Cooper, as above noted, was not a geologist, as the term is now used, but comes in for recognition here on account of the prominent part he played in early educational movements relating to the introduction of the science in the universities. It was through his influence that the chair of geology at the South Carolina College was established, to which Vanuxem was called in 1821, and Le Conte in 1857. At the time Cooper assumed the reins in Columbia geology was taught at no other institution in America except Yale, and the only available text books were the reprints of Bakewell’s geologies with Silliman’s notes. To the latter, on account of the acceptation of Mosaic doctrines, Cooper took violent exception, and attacked them, first in lectures to his classes and subsequently in his pamphlet on The Connection between Geology and the Pentateuch (published in 1833).
A man of powerful intellect, but a reckless busybody. Bold and aggressive, he ** walked roughshod over men’s opinions and suffered the inevitable consequences.” His personal appearance must have been as peculiar as his conduct. ‘*He was less than 5 feet high and his head was the biggest part of the whole man. He was a perfect taper from the side of his head down to his feet. He looked like a wedge with a head on it,” is the way it is expressed by one of his old pupils.
The credulity of even the scientific men of this date (1822) can not be better illustrated than by referring to an account by Schoolcraft of the finding of supposed human footprints in limestone belonging to PAN tt the ‘*Secondary ” formation (Lower Carboniferous), ee on the west bank of the Mississippi River at St. Louis.
These so-called footprints (see fig. 14) were described as those of a man, standing erect, with his heels drawn in and his toes turned outward. The distance between the heels by accurate measurment was 6+ inches, and between the toes 134 inches. Attention was ralled to the fact that the impressions were not those of feet accus

<<<Page: 295>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—EATONIAN ERA, 1i820—1829. 2638
tomed to a close shoe, the toes being too much spread and the foot flattened. The length of the foot was 103 inches, width across the spread toes 4 inches, and at the swell of the heels 24 inches. Public attention was first called to these prints by the Rey. Frederick Rapp, the head of the religious sect ‘‘ Harmonites,” who had them removed to his village of Harmony, and who, it is said, taught that they were the impressions of the feet of the Saviour.
According to Schoolcraft, every appearance warranted the conclusion that the impressions were made at a time when the rock was soft
di. wee ay Sos
Fic. 14.—Supposed human footprints in limestone. (After D. D. Owen.)
enough to receive them by pressure, and the marks of the feet were natural and genuine. In this opinion, he stated, Governor Cass coincided. He acknowledged, however, there were difficulties in the way of accepting this belief, and one of these was the want of tracks leading to and from them. He could only account for this on the supposition that the toe prints might have pointed inland, ‘tin which case we should be at liberty to conjecture that the person making them had landed from the Mississippi and proceeded no farther into the interior.”

<<<Page: 296>>>

Col. Thomas H. Benton, of Missouri, to whom Schooleraft wrote concerning the footprints, differed with him and regarded them as artificial, but his reasons therefor were not sufficient to convince Schoolcraft.
The matter was brought up again by David Dale Owen in 1842 in an article entitled Regarding Human Footprints in Solid Limestone, which appeared in the American Journal of Science of that date.’ Owen here described the appearance of the tracks, and quoted the opinions of Maclure, Troost, Say, and Lesueur to the effect that they were of artificial origin. The English paleontologist, Mantell, was, however, inclined to the opinion of Schoolcraft. Owen himself regarded the tracks as artificial for essentially the same reasons as those advanced by Benton, to the effect that, first, the footprints were not continuous, but isolated; second, this was but a solitary instance of human footprints in solid limestone; third, he could not conceive of the sudden consolidation of compact limestone after having received, while in a plastic state, such impressions; and, last, because of the age, nature, and position of the rock, and because no human remains had hitherto been discovered in any similar formation. He regarded them as having been carved by aborigines with stone implements. In this he was doubtless correct.
Of interest at this time, as bearing upon the subject of faulting and displacement, is a paper in the American Journal of Science by D. H. Barnes, containing a geological section of the Canaan Mountains in
Connecticut, together with observations on the soils Early guezestior® of the region. In the explanation of his section,
beginning at the bottom, the beds are described as (1) clay loam with bowlders; (2) transition limestone; (3) white quartz, grading on one side into limestone and on the other into clay slate; (4) slate; (5) graywacke slate. The strata then repeat themselves in the same order, the gray wacke slate forming the summit of the knob. The entire formation is described as appearing ‘‘to have been broken off from the primitive tract on the east of it, and to have sunken down about one thousand feet perpendicularly.” Regarding the beds and their associations on Hancock Mountain, he concluded that the strata on the top of the mountains might be considered as originally parts of the same bed now at the base of Canaan Mountain, whence they had ‘* been disrupted by some mighty force,” the eastern part remaining firm, while the western settled down to its present position. Referring to Maclure’s map, he found that the two formations discussed ‘‘ butt against each other in a line nearly straight for more than 300 miles.” This he accounted for by supposing ‘‘ that some mighty convulsion has rent asunder the continent from the St. Lawrence to the ocean,” though what this force may have been he

<<<Page: 297>>>

left for others to decide. He, however, thought it probable that it operated from beneath, ‘‘and that, after it had opened for itself a vent, and escaped through the rift caused by its action, the rock strata of the western part fell into the cavity which had previously contained the imprisoned agent.”
In 1823 Dr. John J. Bigsby, a surgeon of the British army stationed in Canada, read before the Geological Society of London a paper, subsequently published in their transactions, on the Geology
and Geography of Lake Huron. He noted that the Bigsby’sigog8 | rocks of the north shore of the lake were mainly primi-
tive granite, gneiss, basanite—quartz rock, conglomerate, and greenstone. The other shores were described as occupied ‘by secondary rocks, frequently fossiliferous, which he regarded as forming part of an immense basin, which, ‘‘extending probably without interruption from the southern shore of Lake Winnipeg, spreads itself over the greater part of lakes Superior, Huron, and Simcoe, the whole of lakes Michigan, Erie, and Ontario, much of the western part of the State of New York, the whole of the States of Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan, and the rest of the valley of the Mississippi.” On Thessalon Island was found a new species of Orthoceratite, which, though described and figured, was not named. Drummond Island yielded also corals and a trilobite—Asaphus platycephalus. Naturally no attempt was made to determine the relative age of the rocks by means of these fossils.
In the year following, Doctor Bigsby had an article. in the Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History (New York) on the geology of Montreal. He described the lowest rock of the region as a trap of a
kind unique in the Canadas, and illustrating ‘tin a BRE DY on the ae®” beautiful manner the affinity existing between the
formation of which it is a member and the primitive class in general.”
A horizontal shell lLmestone of a bluish-black color he noted as forming the floor of the plain surrounding the hill on which the city stands, and through this hill, as a center, the passage in all directions of a large number of trap dikes.
The sandstone of St. Ann’s he rightly described as underlying the limestone, and noted the presence of fossil Lingule, Terebratule, Trilobites, and Orthoceratites.
In the consideration of the sands and gravels constituting the socalled alluvial, he followed the trend of opinion of his time, regarding them as products of the vast inland seas which succeeded the deluge.
The coastal plain of the Eastern United States, which up to this time had been studied in detail only by Maclure and H. H. Hayden, was in 1823 made the subject of a special essay by John Finch, then

<<<Page: 298>>>

professor of geology and mineralogy in Birmingham, England. This
appears to have been the first atte at as i= DS ne a first attempt at a subdi
of the Tertiary, vision of the Tertiary deposits and their scientific
: correlation, and was, beyond question, the most important contribution to the stratigraphy of the region that had thus far appeared.
From an examination of all available data, as well as from a personal inspection of a part of the area, Finch was led to conclude that this formation, as existing in America, was identical and contemporaneous with the newer Secondary and Tertiary formations of Europe amd other countries.
In this same year Finch gave also a short sketch of the geology of the country near Easton, Pennsylvania, his paper being accompanied by a small colored map and catalogue of minerals. According to J. P. Lesley, this was the first paper on the geology of Pennsylvania to appear in the pages of the American Journal of Science.
The paper on the coastal plain, above noted, is by all means the most important of Finch’s geological publications, though in the American Journal of Science for 1826 he had a brief ‘‘ Memoir” (84 pages) on the red-brown sandstones of the Connecticut Valley and New Jersey, where he expressed the opinion that such should be considered as belonging to the new-red or variegated sandstones of Europe rather than to the old-red, as contended by some. In this he was right.
In 1823, too, Denison Olmsted, ‘‘a Connecticut school-teacher,” was authorized by the president of the State board of agriculture of North Carolina to make a geological survey of the State. This act is Giggs sometimes referred to with sectional pride as being North Carolina, the first survey undertaken under State auspices.“
Olmsted’s first report, a pamphlet of 44 pages, appeared under date of 1824 and was mainly of an economic character, dealing only with the distribution in the State of such substances as graphite, gold, coal, and building stones.
His second report appeared in 1827, but bore on the title-page the date 1825. He naturally dwelt upon the agricultural possibilities of the country and the suitability of its limestones and marls for fertilizing purposes. Some space was devoted to the great slate formation ”
“The work of Eaton in New York in 1824 was the first sufficiently thorough and systematic survey to be dignified as a geological survey, though as this was done under the patronage of Hon. Stephen Van Rensselaer, it can. not be considered a public survey. To Massachusetts credit must be given for the first geological survey made at the expense of the State, the same being begun under the direction of Rev. Edward Hitchcock in 1830. (See p. 307.)
bOlmsted’s great slate formation lies west of and parallel with the freestone coal formation (Triassic) occupying more or less of the counties of Person, Orange, Chatham, Randolph, Montgomery, Cabarrus, Anson, and Mecklenburg and corresponds, therefore, to the Huronian of Kerr and recent workers.

<<<Page: 299>>>

and its included rocks and minerals. He noted that the ** whole section of country from the great slate formation to the Blue Ridge” is granitic, containing numerous subordinate formations, such as micaslate and greenstone, with beds of iron ore, etc., and described with some detail the Natural Wall of Rowan, which was supposed by early observers (see p. 255) to be the work of human hands, but which he rightly ascribed to the natural jointing and decomposition of a basic igneous rock. The ** peculiar assemblage of rocks that cross the Dan River at Buckingham” he classed as transition.
In his *‘ conclusion” he remarked that ‘* the rocks are not, as in most other countries, particularly New England, exposed on the surface, but are very generally concealed by a thick covering of clay and sand.” This he rightly regarded as having resulted from the decomposition of the rocks themselves, and not due to a deluge of waters, ‘‘as might at first be thought.”
Olmsted was not primarily an investigator. He himself, as we are informed by his biographer, always regarded it as his more appropriate sphere of effort not so much to culti-
vate science as to teach and Sketch of Olmsted. diffuse it. Graduated at
Yale in 1813, and for a time employed as tutor there, he in 1817 was appointed to the chair of chemistry in the University of North Carolina. While here he conceived the idea of a State geological and mineralogical survey and laid the plan before the board of internal improvements in 1821, with the offer to himself perform the entire work gratuitously, asking only an appropriation of $100 (to be afterwards renewed or not at the pleasure of the board), to defray his necessary expenses in traveling. This proposition was, however, declined,“ only to be renewed a year or two later, with the result that in 1823 the assembly authorized the board of agriculture to have such a survey made and appropriated the sum of $250 a year, for a period of four years, to carry it out. The
Fic. 15.—Denison Olmsted.
@ Referring to this failure to secure assistance, Olmsted, under date of January 9, 1822, wrote to a friend: ‘‘But the Legislature (the Senate, I niean) has, it seems, saved me any trouble on their account. I, however, feel most highly gratified and greatly encouraged at the handsome manner in which my proposition was treated by the Board of Improvement; and the readiness with which the resolution was adopted by the Commons inspires the hope that something may yet be accomplished at the public expense. But my feelings are too much interested in this project to yield to this failure; I hope to do something by my own exertions next summer, and trust the hospitality of the people of the State will make amends for my poyerty. If I can live (as I think I can) on the charity of the people, I don’t know what need I shall have of the public money; for Mr. M says he will lend me a horse.’’

<<<Page: 300>>>

work thus inaugurated was interrupted in 1825 by his call to the protessorship of mathematics and natural philosophy in Yale College, but was taken up again almost immediately by Dr. Elisha Mitchell and, continued for two years longer (see p. 285).
The mental breadth of Olmsted is shown in the fact that while occupving this position at Yale he prepared in 1831 a two-volume work on natural philosophy, a text-book on astronomy in 1839, and hecame well known throughout the scientific world through his papers on meteoric showers and the zodiacal light.
Of his personal character it is written:
His uniform kindness and courtesy of demeanor and patience in imparting instruction, the excellent moral influence which he always exerted, as well by his consistent Christian example as by his personal counsels, the genuine friendliness of his disposition, and the unaffected interest which he always manifested in the welfare of his pupils—especially the readiness and fidelity with which he encouraged and assisted any who exhibited special fondness for the studies of his department—will not soon be forgotten by those who enjoyed the benefit of his instructions, and especially by those who were admitted to his closer friendship.
In this same year Edward Hitchcock published in the American Journal of Science a sketch of the geology, mineralogy, and scenery of the regions contiguous to the Connecticut River, the same being Hien accompanied by a colored geological map embracing of tae Megion amare some 30 miles broad by 150 miles in length. Connecticut River, The coloring and classification of the rocks were not
strictly Wernerian, as might have been expected, but an attempt was made ‘‘to give every particular rock that position and extent on the map which it actually occupies on the earth’s surface.” The paper was devoted mainly to a discussion of the lithological nature and geographic distribution of the various rocks, which were classed as granite, gneiss, hornblende slate, mica slate, talcose slate, chlorite, svenite, primitive green slate, argillite, limestone, verd-antique, oldred sandstone, secondary greenstone, coal formation, and alluvion. Incidentally he discussed their possible origin and relationship.
The granite he described as occurring in beds, and regarded it as primitive, along with the gneiss, mica slate, and the greenstone to the west of New Haven, while that to the north and east was thought to be secondary. The argillite was also regarded as primitive, on the ground of its being highly inclined and destitute of organic remains. The red-brown sandstone now known to be of Triassic age he considered as the old-red sandstone of Werner and Cleaveland, but discussed the possibility of a part of it, as at Chatham and Middletown, belonging to the coal formation.
He chronicled the finding in this sandstone at Deerfield of petrifactions belonging to the genus phytolite and to the species /égnite, and agreeing with the petrifactions found in the Catskill red sandstones by Eaton and referred to ‘*the tribe of Naked Vermes.” Fossil bones of

<<<Page: 301>>>

an animal some 5 feet in length were also mentioned as having been found in this sandstone at East Windsor.“
The year following Prof. Chester Dewey came forward with a paper in the same journal, A Sketch of the Geology and the Mineralogy of the Western Part of Massachusetts. This was likewise accomDewey onthe eee a ee ee geological cep See as a ence. ation of Hitchcock’s and carrying the field of et. observation as far west as the Hudson River.
Working from the Hudson River eastward, he found a belt of transition argillite succeeded by a broad belt of graywacke with included areas of the argillite; this followed by another continuous belt of the same, and then one of transition limestone and a narrow one of primi-tive argillaceous slate directly along the border line of New York and Massachusetts. Beyond this, in Massachusetts, a broad belt of primitive limestone with included areas of mica slate, quartz rock, and transition shell and compact limestone, which still farther to the east became the predominant rock, with a narrow area of eneiss, a small one of granite, and one of talcose slate.
The most pretentious piece of fieldwork accomplished by Amos Eaton was that done under the direction of the Hon. Stephen Van Rensselaer in 1824, and comprised a geological and agricultural survey Ce eer of the district adjoining the Erie Canal. The results Die Brie Canal, of this survey were published in a quarto volume of
163 pages, which was accompanied by a geological section extending from Albany to Lake Erie, and one by Edward Hitchcock from Boston to Plainfield, the two combined enabling Eaton to give a continuous section all the way from Lake Erie to the Atlantic Ocean at Boston Harbor.
To judge from the introductory remarks in this rape: Eaton had been accused of a disposition to create new names. He, therefore, here announced that he had made use of European names, so far as possible, but had found at least five distinct and continuous strata, none of which could, with any propriety, take a name given in any European treatise which had thus far reached this country.
He found along the line of the canal rocks belonging to the primitive, transition, and secondary series. All these were described in considerable detail, but almost wholly with reference to their lithological features. When fossils occurred, such were noted, but were not utilized as aids to correlation.
The prevalent ideas on chemical geology are well brought out in certain parts of his discussion. He recognized the fact that many of the valleys were excavated in the softer and more soluble rocks, like
« These Pome were at first ceoaei to be possibly human, but the ancine of evidences of a tailat least 5 feet in length caused the abandonment of this idea! (American Journal of Science, III, 1821, p. 247.)

<<<Page: 302>>>

limestone, and that carbonic acid holds its base (the line) with a tenure more feeble than that of the common acids; consequently he argued that when muriatic, sulphuric, or nitric acid comes in contact with limestone, it is immediately decomposed.
We have vast quantities of muriate of lime in our wells, springs, etc., which is a very soluble salt. If nature has now, or formerly had, any method for presenting large quantities of muriatic acid to the lime rocks, they would of course be reduced to that soluble salt with great rapidity. Lime rocks would be rapidly dissolved, leaving valleys between those rocks which are subject to the ordinary disintegrating agents only. The valleys of Adams, Williamstown, Little Hoosick, ete., which are situated on limestone, could then be satisfactorily explained. If the common opinion that the ocean has stood over our continent be received as true, we have only to add one more conjecture to make out the requisite supply of muriatic acid; that is, we must suppose that the ocean at that time contained an excess of that acid.
In spite of admonitions by Van Rensselaer, Eaton insisted in indulging in a theorizing propensity, although he would not acknowledge. it by this name, claiming that he but traced ‘*a few of nature’s footsteps where the impressions still remain entire.” Finding large and small masses of what he designated as calciferous sandstone, metalliferous limestone, and graywacke, which properly overlie the slate, actually, as he thought, embedded in it, where the rocks were exposed, as at Cohoes Falls, he would argue that these masses fell in between the slate laminze while the latter were in a semi-indurated state.
Eaton noted the probable difference in age between the red sandstones of the Connecticut Vallev and of the Catskill Mountains, which latter he rightly considered to belong to the old-red or Devonian formations. In discussing the Saliferous rock occurring near Little Falls and extending to the west end of Lake Ontario in upper Canada, and its economic importance, he was disposed to argue that the brine springs issuing from the same were what he called ‘‘the daily productions of nature’s laboratory.” ‘*We see,” he wrote, ‘‘the sulphur in iron pyrites taking oxygen from water, and thereby becoming sulphuric acid; we then see it uniting with magnesia, which is diffused in rocks, and thus forming Epsom salts. * * * We are all familiar, too, with the process of nature by which alum and copperas are made. Why may we not suppose that the two constituents of common salt (muriatic acid and soda) are in some state of combination in the rocks of the salt district, and that by some of those double decompositions with which nature is perfectly familiar salt is produced in the liquid state? May not this be the cause of the superior saltness of the brine springs of Salina over those foreign springs which are supposed to proceed from the solution of rock salt?”
It was in this work that Eaton introduced the name ‘‘Calciferous slate” to designate the slaty rock associated with gypsum and shell

<<<Page: 303>>>

limestone occurring as the principal rock forming the ridge south of the land from Oneida Creek to Pittsford.”
The naturalist Rafinesque, as might have been expected, did not hesitate to express himself on subjects geological, his ideas, however, being a strange admixture of Wernerism and groundless imagery.
We will note here only his Annals of Kentucky, which Views of Rafinesque, 4 eared in Humphry’s history of that State, pub-
lished in 1824, where, as Doctor Peters has succinctly remarked, ‘‘ In only 26 duodecimo pages he gives the geological, ethnological, and historical annals of Kentucky from the first day of creation, according to Moses, down to the current year.”
The geological history of the State he divided into six periods, the first being that of a general inundation, in which the ‘* briny ocean covers the whole land of Kentucky and the United States, rising above 4,000 feet over the Cumberland or Sawioto Mountains and 5,000 feet over the limestone region near Lexington.” The Organ and Mexican mountains alone in all North America rose above the water level.
Through a gradual decrease of the ocean and the decomposition and consolidation of its waters the various rock strata were deposited in the following order: (1) Limestone; (2) slate; (3) sandstone; (4) freestone; (5) grit; (6) pebblestone. These, he stated, were not always superincumbent or coexistent, though generally horizontal except the last four toward the Cumberland Mountains, which; having probably a granitic nucleus, have compelled the incumbent strata to become ‘*‘obliqual” or inclined from ten to thirty degrees. (In this, it will be noted, he showed an inability, characteristic in his day, to com-
“The following reference to this survey appeared in the American Journal of Science, IX, 1825, and will serve to show how Eaton’s work was regarded by his contemporaries. The note, it should be stated, was signed C. D. (presumably Chester Dewey) :
“Mr. Jeffrey, the principal conductor of the Edinburgh Review, has obtained the opinion of Professor Buckland, the celebrated author of the Reliquize Diluviane (published in 1823), on the above work of Professor Eaton. In a letter to the Hon. S. Van Rensselaer Mr. Jeffrey has given the result. Mr. Buckland says that the ‘author seems both to understand his subject and to have done his work carefully.’ The work contains, indeed, abundant evidence of extensive and patient examination. This point will not be affected by the adoption or rejection of Mr. Eaton’s peculiar views by our geologists. In some parts there is an evident improvement upon some of his previous publications on the geology of our country. Thus, at page 31 and page 62 and onward we find introduced ‘primitive argillite,’ a rock so clearly separated and so easily distinguished in our country from ‘transition argillite,’ though both are united under the same name by Bakewell and some others.
‘‘Mr. Buckland makes some objection to the style, and complains of Mr. Eaton for ‘affecting some needless novelties in technical language.’ However true this charge may be, the censure is feeble when compared with the commendation contained in the previous quotation. In our country the work has been censured for this fault, and more particularly for the introduction of rocks or localities which do not belong to the district which is described. In this way unity is not preserved,

<<<Page: 304>>>

prehend the effect of subsequent uplift in tilting rock strata.) By the operation of submarine volcanoes during this period the strata of coal, clay, and amygdaloid were formed and intermixed at various intermittent times with the other strata.
During the second period the Cumberland Mountains emerged from the sea, the waters of which sank to a level of 1,500 feet above those of to-day. The formation of the schistose rocks proceeded, vegetation began, and streams began to flow.
During the third period the level of the water was reduced to 1,100 feet and all the table-lands and highlands of Kentucky became uncoyered, An inland seastill covered the Ohio limestone basin, extending from the actual mouth of Sciota River to that of Salt River. Land animals, insects, reptiles, birds, and quadrupeds were created during this period. .
During the fourth period the level of the sea was reduced to 700 feet, and the limestone sea of Kentucky drained. Alluviums and bottoms began to form in the valleys and gulfs by the attrition of the strata and soil conveyed and deposited by the streams. Sinks and caves in the limestone region were formed. Lastly, Adam appeared in the Garden of Eden. This fourth period of Kentucky history thereby answered to the sixth day of the general creation.
The fifth period was that of Noah’s flood, though Ratfinesque acknowledged he failed to find any traces of such a violent convulsion in Kentucky. The ocean, which still bathed its western corner, sub-
in that part of the work entitled ‘General Descriptions of North American Rocks,’ though some have said that these can hardly belong, in a general view, to the district of the canal. But in the ‘Description of rocks in the vicinity of the Erie Canal,’ page 47, the fault often occurs. We mention the account of the hornblende rocks near West Point, page 54; of granular quartz, pages 56, 57; of granular limestone, pages 57, 58, and many others which are not found near the line of the canal.
‘If the work should pass to a second edition, which is highly probable, and even rendered somewhat necessary to make it as complete as the subsequent examinations of Professor Eaton enable him to do, and as the light thrown on the subject of the newer formations by the very able work of Conybeare and Phillips on the Geology of England and Wales seems to require, we would suggest as an improvement of the work that the notices of rocks which are not found along the line of the canal be omitted in this part of the work, or be reduced to the bare remark that they do not occur in the district, and that the remarks and localities of rocks in other parts of the country be taken from the text and put into form of notes. In this way the continuity of geological description of the country along the canal will be unbroken. We think no one can read the work without being sensible of its interest and importance to every one who examines the rocks of this district. The localities are given with much precision, and the traveler is enabled at once to ascertain the rocks intended by the names which Professor E. has given them. It were to be wished that the common nomenclature of the rocks had been altered with a more sparing hand.”’

<<<Page: 305>>>

tucky forever. Strata began to consolidate, ponds and marshes decreased, animals multiplied, and vegetation overspread the soil.
The sixth period, that of Peleg’s flood, was one of catastrophe. Great. volcanic eruptions in Europe and America, with awful earthquakes convulsed the Atlantic Ocean. During this period the Atlantic land disappeared leaving only the volcanic islands— Azores, Madeira, Canary, and Cape Verde—to mark its position.
It will be remembered that in 1793 Benjamin De Witt noted the great diversity among the bowlders along the shore of Lake Ontario and recognized the fact that such must have been conveyed there by Soa eee some extraordinary means. The means conceived ot vation on the by De Witt were indeed extraordinary and nothing at less than a ‘‘mighty convulsion of nature.” Peter Dobson, a Connecticut cotton manufacturer, writing thirty-two years later, showed himself a better observer and more gifted in powers of deduction.
In a letter to Benjamin Silliman, dated November 21, 1825,¢ Dobson described bowlders which were unearthed at Vernon, Connecticut,while excavating preliminary to the erection of a cotton factory, as ‘*worn smooth on their under side as if done by their having been dragged over rocks and gravelly earth in one steady position.” They also showed scratches and furrows on the abraded. parts. He could account for these appearances only by calling in the aid of ice along with water, the blocks having been worn by being suspended and ‘arried in ice over rocks and earth under water.
These observations seem to have attracted no attention at the time, and even Edward Hitchcock, thirteen years later, attached no serious importance to them, although his attention was called to the matter by another letter from Dobson, this time addressed to Hitchcock himself. In this second letter, written in 1838, Dobson described the bowlders as having been first rounded by attrition and then worn flat on one side by a motion that kept them in one relative position, as a plane slides over a board in the act of planing. Some of them he describes as worn and scratched so plainly that there was no difficulty in pointing out which side was foremost in the act of wearing, a projecting bit of quartz or feldspar protecting the softer material behind it. In this letter he again announced his inability to account for these appearances except on the supposition that the boulders had been enveloped in ice and moved forward over the sea bottom by currents of water. The drifting icebergs off the Labrador coast he thought might well illustrate the conditions and methods of their production.
Perhaps it may have been because Dobson was a cotton manufacturer and not a member of the learned profession, or there may have
“This may be found in American Journal of Science, X, 1526. NAT Mus 1904——18 ‘

<<<Page: 306>>>

been other reasons for it, but Hitchcock allowed the observations to pass unnoticed until 1842 when the subject was brought up by no less an authority than Murchison, in his anniversary address before the Geological Society of London. ‘*I take leave of the glacial theory,” said Murchison, *‘in congratulating American science in having possessed the original author of the best glacial theory, though his name has escaped notice, and in recommending to you the terse argument of Peter Dobson, a previous acquaintance with which might have saved volumes of disputation on both sides of the Atlantie.”* Supported by this somewhat enthusiastic indorsement, Hitchcock then gave the letter to the public through the American Journal of Science,? though at the same time remarking that he had himself derived his ideas concerning the joint action of ice and water from the writings of Sir James Hall. .
April 25, 1823, Maj. S. H. Long received orders from thé*War Department to make an expedition for a general survey of the country in the vicinity of the Great Lakes and the sources of the Missisfeet sippi; to prepare a topographic description of the Expedition, same; to ascertain the. latitude and longitude of all
the remarkable points; to investigate its productions, animal, vegetable, and mineral, and to inquire into the characteristics and customs of the Indians. The route of the expedition (see map, fig. 16) beginning at Philadelphia, was through Wheeling, West Virginia, to Chicago by way of Fort Wayne; thence to Fort Crawford and up the Mississippi to Fort St. Anthony, and the source of the St. Peters River; thence to the point of intersection between Red River and the forty-ninth degree of north latitude; along the northern boundary of the United States to Lake Superior, and thence homeward by the Great Lakes.
Although not intended primarily as a scientific survey, it was accompanied by Thomas Say, zoologist, and William H. Keating, mineralogist. It was expected that Dr. Edwin James, who with Say had been a member of the expedition of 1819-20, would be a member of this also, but through failure to connect with the party at Wheeling or Columbus the expedition was deprived of his services.
An account of this survey, under the title of Narrative of an Expedition to the Sources of St. Peters River, etc., was prepared by William H. Keating and published in two volumes in London in 1825. Keating, it should be noted, was professor of mineralogy and chemistry as applied to the arts in the University of Pennsylvania, and though his published notes contain little or nothing along the broad lines of geology, they are full of references which, at the time they were written, were of value.
“ Anniversary address, Proceedings of the Geological Society of London, 1842.
>Volume XLVI, 1844.

<<<Page: 307>>>

He remarked on the disappearance of the pr leaving Philadelphia and the appearance of the transition limestone,
“EZRT JO UOTIIpedxg s,suoT Jo saqnoy Ssurmoys deyy— "ol ‘Diy
Ost 001 og S31iW 40 31v0S hayany, Fi
tive rocks soon after
WMP ; Sf
is WU
/ J fay
None
funy >
A ernn
Sp {
eotearnan
pond aues ey) jo Pavagsua ueaes Ayaty
PS tr (OY AR Dh eC eG ts wee (24400) 80) Peal zt
s vee
uoiurysu yy wot) 8 45844 9pnaidaoq [a
with occasional protrusions through this limestone of amphibolite.
He also made reference to the red sandstone of Pennsyly
ania, New
TS c
Jersey, and Maryland and the calcareous breccia found on the Potomac

<<<Page: 308>>>

River. The occurrence of a white marble near Hagerstown and a secondary blue limestone in the vicinity of Cumberland was noted, and some attention given to the coal formations in the vicinity of Cumberland and Wheeling. He noted further the occurrence of a limestone containing organic remains lying in a nearly horizontal position in the vicinity of Chicago, but no superposition being visible, he was unable to determine its relative age.
Concerning the lead ores at Dubuque, and their apparent occurrence only in the alluvial soil, he wrote:
From the specimens which we have seen, * * * wecan not hesitate in asserting it as our opinion that no lead has yet been discovered on the Merrimeg or Mississippi in metalliferous limestones, but that wherever it has been found it has always been in an alluvium and never in regular veins or beds, nor even in masses which might be considered as coeval with the substances in which they are embedded.
The Cambrian sandstone found between the Wassemon and the Wisconsin rivers he regarded as not older than the variegated or Bunter sandstein of Werner (Triassic), ana the Lower Silurian limestone which lies above the sandstone, as corresponding to the English Lias. The whole region comprising the headwaters of the Winnipeek River was looked upon as having been at a comparatively recent period an immense lake interspersed with innumerable barren, rocky islands, which had been drained by the bursting of the barriers which tided back the waters. The innumerable bowlders which he found covering the valley were regarded, as were similar bowlders in other places by his contemporaries, as due to the flood of waters caused by the bursting of these natural dams.
This was plainly a recognition of the extinct glacial Lake Agassiz, later described by Lieut. G. K. Warren,@ and the history of which was worked out in detail by Warren Upham.
Keating’s ideas as to the possible development of the mining industry were not of the most advanced type. Referring to the subject of the supposed source of the native copper reported by Schoolcraft (p. 244), he wrote:
The question which appears to us of far greater importance is not where the copper lies, but what shall we do with it if it should be found. We are very doubtful whether any other advantage would result from it, at least for a century to come, than the mere addition in books of science of a new locality of this metal.
This in 1825! The development of the Michigan copper mines began about 1855, and up to 1889 the combined mines had produced over 1,000,000,000 pounds of the refined metal. The output for 1889 alone amounted to 87,455,675 pounds.
Ina Notice of Snake Hill and Saratoga Lake and its Environs, by Dr. J. H. Steel, in the American Journal of Science for this same
« American Journal of Science, XVI, 1878, p. 417.

<<<Page: 309>>>

year, is figured and deseribed what is evidently an overturned fold. This is of interest, since while the nature of the fold was partially realized, the means by which it was brought about was J. H. Steel on b z A Von gs ; Bveciit acd’ Pokis: considered as problematical. Similar phenomena had been noted by Eaton (p. 253) and by Maclure, but with nothing like as much detail. The writer says:
It is impossibie to examine this locality without being strongly impressed with the belief that the position which the strata here assume could not have been effected in any other way than by a power operating from beneath upward and at the same time possessing a progressive force, something analogous to what takes place in the breaking up of the ice of large rivers. The éontinued swelling of the stream first overcomes the resistance of itsfrozen surface, and having elevated it to a certain extent, it is forced into a yertical position, or thrown over upon the unbroken stratum behind, by the progressive power of the current.
If it can be admitted that the operation of such a power did produce the effect here represented, it must have taken place before the materials ofwhich the formation is composed had passed into an indurated state, as most of the strata remain unbroken, and, where the argillite has crumbled away, the curved part of the graywacke may be taken out entire, and some of them, which I now haye in my possession, exhibit indentations and protuberances, particularly on their curved surfaces, evidently the result of friction while in a plastic state.
The description is of still fur-
; C 4 Fic. 17.—Sections of Snake Hill, Saratoga Lake. ther interest historically, when (ites ee aieel)
considered in connection with
the dispute relating to priority of discovery which later arose between Messrs. Hitchcock and Rogers. (See p. 314.)
The fact that rock strata were not always found lying even approximately horizontal had been often noted, but no rational explanation suggested or, indeed, attempted. In that year, however, Maclure, in, ee noting the fact that the x ransition rocks dip, suggested Overturned Folds. the possibility of its being caused by their having
been ‘*disposed on the primitive, concerning which we can as yet scarce conjecture anything.”

<<<Page: 310>>>

The appearance in book form of Prof. Jeremiah Van Rensselaer’s lectures on geology, as delivered before the New York Atheneum in 1825, gives us an opportunity of judging of the condition of science oa siamo Ne ah that date, such as was offered a few years earlier by Pacts eniGeakicy, Mitchill’s Observations. acu
Van Rensselaer was not so much an original investi: gator as a student and teacher; hence the inference is fair that his work gives us asummary of existing knowledge rather than the details of his own observations or his individual views. He reviewed the opinions of the cosmogonists and theorists from Burnett, in 1680, down to Werner and Hutton, and referred to the work of his predecessors and contemporaries in America, summing up with conclusions condensed from Cuvier’s Observations, to the effect that, first, the sea had, at one period or other, not only covered all our plains, but remained there for a long time ina state of tranquillity; second, that there had been at least one change in the basin of the sea which preceded the present one; third, that the particular portions of the earth which the sea had abandoned by its last retreat had been laid dry once before and had at that time produced quadrupeds, birds, plants, and all kinds of terrestrial productions; and that it had been reinundated by the sea, which had since retired and left it to the possession of its own proper inhabitants. -These facts, which had been proven through geological evidence, he regarded as supporting the accounts of Moses, both agreeing, first, in the prevalence over everything else of water at the time of the creation; second, in the subsequent separation of the land from the water; and, third, in the eruption of the sea over the continent, the last corresponding to the Noachian deluge.
Van Rensselaer recognized the value of fossils in proving the identity of geological horizons, also the fact that organic remains have been deposited in successive generations and in such order that those of one bed bear a certain connection to each other and exhibit certain distinctive points differentiating them from those of earlier or later deposits, and that the greater the distance between the deposits the greater the difference between the contained fossils. This, I believe, is the second recognition by an American author of a now well-established principle.
The tendency to make sweeping cencralioatiOns founded upon purely local observations is noticeable in his writings, as in those of many of his contemporaries. Thus, in describing the gneiss:
It is the next rock to granite and occurs resting or lying upon it. When they are both seen in the same mountain its ledge is always the lower of the two. Mountains
of gneiss are seldom so steep as those of granite, and the summits are not quite so peaked.

<<<Page: 311>>>

Or, again, in writing on the weathering of rocks:
The decomposition of granite is slow and when decomposed the unfriendly siliceous grains are easily washed away. There is neither vegetable nor animal matter in the compound; it does not absorb moisture, letting the moisture percolate, nor does it retain heat. The soil made from gneiss is not washed away so easily, and the mica yields more argillaceous matter. * * * Micaceous schist and argillite decompose more rapidly and form a better, though not a good, soil. * * * The rivers of primary districts have rocky beds and precipitous banks, ete.
Van Rensselaer was one of the first to recognize the necessity of exercising care in the selection of stones for building purposes:
We take our materials because they are near at hand, because they are cheap, and because others have taken the same, in preference to searching out others which * * * are more durable. Scarcely any one building in Europe or America of ~ modern construction at the end of one thousand years will have one stone left upon another stone to denote the place where it stood, and the most splendid works of modern architecture are even now hastening to decay from want of attention to this subject.
His remarks on anthracite coal offer an interesting illustration of a disposition, still too frequently met with, to make the observed facts conform to preconceived opinions. Anthracite or native mineral carbon, or ** blind coal,” he wrote, is not regarded, strictly speaking, as a coal, though combustible.
It occurs in the primary rocks, and hence it is obvious that it did not proceed from the decomposition of vegetable substances, since it is generally acknowledged that the primary rocks were formed previous to the existence of vegetation.
An analytical key or a synopsis, given with a view. of facilitating the study of geology, is of particular interest, since the methods of modern petrography have shown how absolutely impossible it is to classify rocks by a simple examination of the hand specimen and without the aid of a microscope. It is difficult to imagine a student in other than a thorough state of mental demoralization who should attempt to identify and classify rocks from such a description, an abstract of which is given below:
Simple, or apparently so.
A. Wacke, of the German school. Resembles indurated clay, with an even and smooth earthy, or an uneven, somewhat granular fracture, and a shining streak.
a. Compact.
b. Cellular; but generally in that case partly amygdaloidal and appertaining to another division.
B. Indurated clay, more or less hard, with an earthy and dull fracture.
a. Compact.
This is different from the ferruginous clays found often with the trap rocks, which pass into jasper.
b. Cellular.

<<<Page: 312>>>

Like var. A, }, it is rarely cellular in large masses without also containing amygdaloidal nodules, when it passes to another division. The colors of this variety are usually ash or gray of different hues, or modifications of red, or brown, or purplish black.
The prevalent ideas on the subject of earthquakes at this time may be gleaned from a paper by Dr. Isaac Lea, of Philadelphia, in the American Journal of Science for 1825. Lea rejected the theories put
forward in 1749 by a Doctor Stukley to the effect that Bavthowaikes, 1825, earthquakes were caused by lightning, but regarded
them as the effect of volcanic eruptions, though at the same time he could see no necessary connection between the electric discharges of volcanoes and the earthquakes, regarding such as an effect rather than a cause.
He thought that there were strong reasons for believing a considerable portion of the interior of the earth to be in a constant state of incandescence and that there were beneath the surface great cavities or channels of connection between one voleano and another. ‘‘ We must admit,” he wrote, ‘‘of deep-seated channels of connection stretching from one portion of the globe to the others, through which the explosive gases pass with an instantaneous motion, accompanied by a rumbling or terrible noise peculiar to earthquakes.” In this, it will be noted, he followed toa large extent the teachings of Humboldt and Newton. These channels, he thought, had connection with the sea, basing his opinion upon the fact that volcanoes throw up salt water and fish; moreover, that most volcanoes are situated near the sea. He regarded these branching channels as species of horizontal voleanoes, their roofs and walls furnishing material which, aided by oxygen supplied by the influx of the sea, would yield the necessary amount of combustible matter to keep up the earth’s internal fire. To the possible objection that rocks in themselves would not burn, he answered that, when such are decomposed, ‘‘ their metallic bases, calcium, silicium, aluminum, magnesium, etc., are highly incandescent.”
Four years later (1829) Maclure, in discussing the theories of Poulett Scrope, took exception to the views of Lea, though he failed to offer anything satisfactory in return. He instanced the earthquake of eee een [811-12 in the Mississippi Valley, in which only the of Scrope and Jea, alluvial formations had been disturbed, and questioned
if such could not have been caused by the evolution of elastic gases arising from the fermentation of large masses of vegetable matter accumulated in the beds. If such were the case, however, he recognized the possibility of an increase in the frequency of earthquakes as fermentation went on. Maclure evidently did not place a great amount of reliance on his own theories, for he states, in referring to some of the ideas advanced by Scrope:¢ ‘‘All these speculations are
“Scrope’s Theory of Volcanoes appeared in 1825.

<<<Page: 313>>>



<<<Page: 314>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904,—Merrill. PLATE 8.
State Geologist of North Carolina.

<<<Page: 315>>>

out of the reach of our senses and can be accounted only as amusement” for the present.
In 1826 there appeared a Manual of Mineralogy and Geology, designed for the use of schools and for persons attending lectures on these subjects, as also a convenient pocket companion for travelers in <j Ee the United States ot Americ: . the same being from ee aad the pen of Dr. Ebenezer Emmons, destined later to
act a very important part in American geological history, but at that time newly graduated from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute at Troy, New York.
Emmons at first studied, and later practiced, medicine, but in 1828 removed to Williamstown, where he had been appointed lecturer on chemistry. During the years 1830-1837 he also served as junior professor in the Rensselaer Institute, and in 1836 was appointed one of the four geologists of the New York State survey. In 1842 he became custodian of the State collections at Albany, and in 1843 engaged in investigations relating to the agricultural resources of the State, the results of which were published during the period 1846-1854 in the form of five quarto volumes. In 1851 he was appointed State geologist of North Carolina, a position which he retained until the time of his death.
As noted elsewhere, Emmons, during his work on the New York State survey, became involved in a discussion relative to the so-called *-Taconic System,” which lasted for nearly half a century and which undoubtedly seriously embittered the latter days of his life. The dispute, indeed, became at times so harsh that Emmons-was practically ostracized by the scientific fraternity.
In 1851 he published a pretentious volume on North American geology, and, in connection with his work in North Carolina, two volumes on the agriculture and geology of the State. He died during the period of the civil war, and his papers and notes are said to have become lost in the unsettled condition of the country which followed.
It is impossible here to go into a discussion of the true merits of the Taconic controversy, and the matter is reserved for a separate chapter. Hundreds of pages of printed matter have been published, coyering a period of nearly fifty years, but the name has now disappeared from the maps and is only of historical interest.
Emmons’s Manual, to which reference is above made, and which, as stated in the title page, was adopted as a text-book at the Rensselaer school at Troy, was a small duodecimo volume of 230 pages. It had the distinction, so far as the mineralogical part was concerned, of being the second treatise of its kind written by an American and for American students, being preceded only by Cleaveland’s Mineralogy, published in 1816. In geology it was preceded by the works of Cleaveland in 1816 and Eaton in 1818.

<<<Page: 316>>>

In Emmons’s work the minerals were all included in four classes, with an appendix which contained those minerals of which but little is known. The classes were subdivided, as Cleaveland and others had tlone before him, into orders, the orders again into genera, and the genera finally into species. His arrangement of classes was, however, somewhat different from any of his predecessors. Thus, the first class included those minerals, not metallic, which are oxidable or which are compounds whose bases are oxidable. It comprised native gases and liquids, sulphur and carbon, and the carbon compounds, but, singularly enough, no mention was made of graphite.
The second class included all minerals which are metallic or whose bases are metallic; the third class all those which consist of an alkaline or earthy base in combination with acids, and the fourth those which consist of an earth or are compounds of earths with variable portions of alkaline and metallic oxides. In the seven sections into which this last class was divided he placed quartz in all its varieties, siliceous slate, pumice, obsidian, clinkstone, a large number of hydrous and anhydrous silicates, argillite, wacke, clay, phosphates, etc. But little attention was given to crystallography, and ‘‘silex, alumnie, and lime are considered as the oldest of the earths, as they enter into the composition of the primitive rocks.” Altogether 297 species were recognized, 44 of which were mentioned in the appendix as little known. Many of these, such as pumice, obsidian, wacke, etc., can not, of course, be properly considered as minerals. In spite of this unintentional exaggeration, it is interesting, for purposes of comparison, to note that in the latest edition of Dana’s Mineralogy (1892) 824 species were recognized.
The part of Emmons’s work devoted to geology was made up mainly of a ‘‘general description of North American rocks.” The classification adopted was the same as that used by Eaton and need not be noted here further than to say that he included an argillite among his primitive as well as transition rocks, while Eaton limited argillite to the transition series, though recognizing the possibility of a primitive form.
Among the early workers in stratigraphic geology, along lines laid down by Cuvier, Brongniart, and their successors, mention must be made of Gerard Troost, born in Holland-in 1776 and dying in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, in 1850. Like many naturalists of Wee aaoene his time Troost wasa physician. He studied in France;
was appointed by the King of Holland to accompany, in a scientitic capacity, a naval expedition to Japan. He was captured and imprisoned by English privateers, finally returning to Paris. He thence took passage for New York in an American vessel and was again ‘aptured, this time by a French privateer, and once more imprisoned. On his release he went again to Paris, was again allowed to embark, and in 1810 came to Philadelphia.

<<<Page: 317>>>



<<<Page: 318>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill PLATE 9.
th { Ri
iN iN
| ‘y j itil Wy
malty iti f
ANA) ly NN
\ \ vl } i i \ WN ANY iy AUN { th ut NA | | STANT \
ae an \ \ NYA
H i}
Wi Win Ny
State Geologist of Tennessee.

<<<Page: 319>>>

When the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences was established in 1812 he became its first president, holding the office for five years, when he was succeeded by William Maclure. Troost, with Owen, Maclure, and others, joined the communistic society at New Harmony, Indiana, in 1825, but removed to Nashville, Tennessee, in 1827, and the following year was elected professor of chemistry, geology, and mineralogy in the university of that city. In 1831 he became State geologist, holding the office till 1839, when it was abolished. Nine reports were made during his time, but seven of which were published. Prior to going to Tennesseee his most important geological work was a survey of the region about Philadelphia, the same being done and the results published in 1826 under the patronage of the Society for the Promotion of Agriculture.
The work comprised forty small octavo pages with a colored map of the region included within a half circle north of the Delaware River, having a radius extending a little beyond Chester, i. e., some 17% miles. As may be readily supposed, fully three-fourths the area was colored as gneiss, with narrower bands extending in a general way parallel with the river; in the northern part, of primitive clayslate and of limestone. Between the gneiss and clay-slate was a short, narrow belt of serpentine, and between the clay-slate and limestone one of eurite, and in the extreme northeastern portion of the sheet a band of transition graywacke. Among the varieties of rocks mentioned, in addition to those enumerated and comprising subordinate formations, are diabase and pegmatite. The eurite was described as occurring north of the high ridge which separates the limestone from the granitic rocks and as being in every respect similar to that of Penig, on the Erzgebirge. ‘I was delighted,” he wrote, ‘‘at meeting this rock for the first time on this side of the Atlantic. I imagined myself transported to the Erzgebirge, in Saxony, and remembered with renewed pleasure the father of geology, who made us acquainted with it.” More than half of the paper was given up to a discussion of the physical and chemical properties of the soil, as might be expected when its date and the auspices under which the work was done are taken into consideration.
In the Boston Journal of Philosophy for the same year the ill-starred Prof. J. W. Webster gave a somewhat detailed account of the geology of Boston and vicinity, describing the three hills, to which ‘* Boston eg ey Owes its ancient name and so much of its picturesque oi the Geology about beauty,” as being composed mainly of hard, compact
ese clay with gravel and bowlders. Amister’s Hill was described as composed largely of clay-slate, passing on the north into hornblende slate, the latter containing veins of: ‘‘greenstone;” and Prospect Hill, in part of a greenish compact feldspar, which passes into clay-slate, covered toward its northwest extremity by a mass

<<<Page: 320>>>

of trap. ‘*This hill,” he wrote, ‘‘exhibits that gentle acclivity and rounded summit so common in the transition formations of the Wernerian school.”
The Medford trap (diabase) he noted as being unfit for architectural purposes, owing to its rapid disintegration, a fact which has’ been many times commented upon in more recent years. The tendency manifested by the ‘* greenstone” as a whole to exfoliate in bowlder forms with concentric structure, he correctly ascribed to weathering, as did Gibson writing several years earlier (p. 254).
He noted the occurrence of abundant joints in the conglomerate of Dorchester, but considered such as inexplicable with the geological information then available. An interesting light is thrown upon the lack of knowledge of the chemical composition of rocks at that time in the continuation of his paper the following year, in which he described this conglomerate—a highly siliceous rock—as passing into the overlying melaphyr, a basic igneous rock. In several places within the town of Brighton he thought to note the transition from one rock type to another.“
In the American Journal of Science for 1827 Alanson Nash presented his first, last, and only geological paper that seems to have found its way into print—this relating to the lead mines and veins of
Hampshire County, Massachusetts—and offered some planson Nash. interesting speculations as to their origin.
That they were not once open fissures filled from above, the fissures themselves being formed by the unequal subsidence of the earth’s crust or through shrinkage caused by desiccation, accord ing to the Neptunian theory, was to him evident for the following reasons: If the cavities were formed by desiccation and subsidence the veins would be widest at the surface and narrow as they descend, whereas, in fact, the very reverse is the case. If filled from above by mineral solutions which covered the globe, then he thought we ought to find beds of metallic matter in the valleys and plains also. Neither was he disposed to accept the views of the Plutonists, who regarded the veins as filled by ‘tan injection from a fiery furnace below.” Rather would he look upon them as contemporaneous both in formation and filling with the rocks in which they occur, being analogous to the granite veins of the same region. That the vein material did not adhere firmly to the wall rock, as is the case with the granite veins,
«This deceptive appearance, 1t may be stated, is due to the fact that the melaphyr at the time of its extrusion was in a highly liquid condition and flowing out over the uneyen surface of the conglomerate filled in all the inequalities, so closely welding itself as to form what was apparently one and the same mass. When subsequent erosion cut away a considerable portion of both rocks the appearance of isolated patches of melaphyr here and there on the eroded surface of the conglomerate was quite misleading. Some more recent observers have since committed the same blunder of observation and faulty deduction with far less excuse.

<<<Page: 321>>>

was to him no argument against this view. ‘*In one case the vein is lapideous, in the other it is metallic; they are different.”
As has been already noted, Olmsted’s work in North Carolina was continued after his resignation by Prof. Elisha Mitchell, who was transferred from the chair of mathematics to that of chemistry,
mineralogy, and geology at the time of Olmsted’s Honea gs, —«sLesSignation. Like Olmsted, Mitchell was born in Connecticut and graduated at Yale, going to North Carolina about the same time as did the former. He was known as a man of great culture and erudition, but had manifested no indications of a particular leaning toward geology until the transfer above noted, and to-day his fame probably rests ‘more upon his knowledge of the physical geography and botany of North Carolina than of its geology. He was an enthusiastic explorer and collector, and, as is well known, finally lost his life on Black, now Mitchell, Mountain in 1857.
His two most important papers on geology were published in 1828 and 1829, the first relating to the origin of the low country of North Carolina and the second to the geology of the gold regions. In 1842 he published a summary of his work in the form of a text-book for his classes, accompanied by a small geological map of the State, the only map of its kind thus far prepared. <A rea port on the mineralogy of the State was Fic. 18,—Elisha Mitchell. also prepared by his assistant, C. E. Rothe, of Saxony, in 1827. <A geological map of the eastern half of the State was said to have been made, but never published.
Mitchell, in his paper on the origin of the low country, took the ground that the various strata there found were formed in the bed of the sea and became dry land through the depression of the level of the ocean or the elevation of the land by a force operating from beneath. The shells found by him in these beds proved, in his judgment, that they were of comparatively recent origin, but just how recent he was not prepared to say. The presence of bones of elephants and mastodons, however, indicated to his mind an elevation prior to the Noachian deluge, to which catastrophe he evidently attributed their burial.

<<<Page: 322>>>

In 1829 Mitchell published in the American Journal of Science an article in which he threw doubt upon the statements and theories of Olmsted and Rothe regarding the origin and occurrence of gold in the tae ital State. It will be remembered that Olmsted considered of Olmsted and Rothe, the gold to be limited to the area occupied by the
argillite, while Rothe considered granite as the base of the gold-bearing formations. Olmsted further argued that the gold occurred in the diluvial formation, while Rothe believed that the gold now found in the alluvial was derived from veins and spread over the country by a flood of waters breaking through the Blue Ridge and rushing in torrents over the entire gold-bearing region.
Mitechell’s idea, which is undoubtedly the correct one, was that the gold occurred originally in veins and perhaps in part disseminated throughout the country rock, which was in itself in part primitive and in part secondary. From these rocks it was set free through atmospheric decomposition and subsequently distributed by gravity and running water.
Mitchell’s paper is of further interest in that it contains a colored geological map of the gold region, the rocks being classified as primitive, transition or slate, old-red sandstone, and alluvium.
Although the day of the cosmogonist was fast drifting into the obscurity of the past, there were, nevertheless, occasional writers who still preferred to ignore facts of observation or the efliciency of
simple causes and to seek for more difficult or more ete iss.” = Mystical methods of accounting for phenomena than
those furnished by the observation of processes now inaction. Thus Benjamin Tappan, in discussing the bowlders of primitive and transition rock found in Ohio (glacial erratics), objected to the commonly accepted idea that such were necessarily foreign to the locality, brought by currents of water or floating ice in immense inland lakes. He frankly acknowledged, however, his own inability to account for their presence, but ingenuously claimed that ‘‘ ignorance is preferable to error,” and.added: ‘‘It may therefore be asked why may not these rocks have been created where they are now found?” Or, *‘ Again, why may they not have been thrown out by earthquakes or volcanoes ¢”
Groping though this writer may have been, it is questionable if his ignorance were not preferable to the kind of knowledge manifested by a writer (signature ‘‘ A”) in the American Journal of Science of two years previous, who would account for the drift on the supposition that the earth’s revolution, amounting to 1,500 feet a second, was suddenly checked. This, he thought, would result in the whole mass
“ Rothe had previously (1826) expressed the idea that the gold was derived from the bursting asunder of the gold-bearing veins by subterranean explosions and the gold thus scattered over the adjacent regions, some of it being carried down in the water courses.

<<<Page: 323>>>

of the surface water rushing forward with inconceivable velocity, until overcome by opposing obstacles or exhausted by continual friction and the counterbalancing power of gravitation. The Pacific Ocean would thus rush over the Andes and the Alleghenies into the Atlantic, which would in the meantime be sweeping over Europe, Asia, and Africa. ‘*A few hours would cover the entire surface of the earth, excepting, perhaps, the vicinity of the poles, with one rushing torrent, in which the fragments of disintegrated rock, earth, and sand would be carried along with the wreck of animal and vegetable life in one all but liquid mass.”
The period that may with propriety be called the dark age of geology was that prior to the discovery and general recognition of the ‘value of fossils in stratigraphy—the fact that the relative age or
stratigraphic sequence of sedimentary rocks could be Geologys Agesot determined by means of the plant and animal remains they may contain.
According to Dr. Archibald Geikie, in his Founders of Geology, credit must be given to the Abbé Giraud-Soulavie for having first planted the seeds of stratigraphic geology. In a paper read before the Royal Academy of Scientists in Paris in August, 1779, Soulavie described the caleareous mountains Vivarais as made up of limestones belonging to five different epochs, the strata in each being marked by its own peculiar assemblage of fossils.
These views, though undoubtedly correct in the main, were not generally accepted even in France, a fact thought by -Doctor Geikie to be due mainly to the wretched style in which they were set forth, and the Abbé’s fame has been eclipsed by more brilliant successors, among whom may be mentioned Desmarest, Rouelle, Lamanon, Cuvier, and Brongniart.
Cuvier, it will be recalled, was primarily a biologist, and may well be considered the first vertebrate paleontologist—the first to announce that the globe was once peopled by vertebrate animals of a type which have long since disappeared. In connection with Brongniart, Cuvier published in 1808 a memoir containing the results of their joint studies in the basin of the Seine. They showed that the formations there existing were arranged in a definite order and could be recognized by their lithological and paleontological characteristics. Although subsequent research has naturally tended to show that the observations and deductions of these early workers were not in all cases correct, it may, nevertheless, be said that they established on a basis of accurate observation the principles of paleontological stratigraphy, demonstrated the use of fossils for the determination of geological chronology, und paved the way for the enormous advances which have since been made.

<<<Page: 324>>>

When one recalls the avidity with which each new suggestion is seized upon by the scientists of to-day, it seems strange that. so promising a field of investigation as was here thrown open should not ; have been immediately occupied. Nevertheless, it Cot Aton tsos, was not until 1828 that an American geologist took up the matter with an apparently full appreciation of its possibilities. In that year Dr. S. G. Morton, the paleontologist, read before the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences, from notes furnished him by Lardner Vanuxem, what was probably the most important paper of the year, relating to a possible subdivision of the heretofore so-called alluvial or Tertiary deposits of the Atlantic coast. The most important feature of this paper, as may be surmised, lay in its announced recognition of the value of fossils for purposes of correlation. With the exception of Prof. John Finch, already mentioned, writers up to this time had very generally referred to these deposits _ as belonging to a single formation, either alluvial or Tertiary, as the ‘ase might be. Vanuxem here asserted for the first time the existence of both Secondary and Tertiary formations, and showed ‘‘ that the two formations may be at all times unequivocally identified by their fossil remains.” The relative geological position of the beds he gave as below:
., |Vegetable mold: .. =o. 2222 soe ee eee ee uh Modern alluvial ier pipes 6 Nae icneailieial {White siliceous sand). 2.122220. ieee 2222 ee ee eee 5 Ancient alluvia | Red earth: 9. oss) oS ot LES ee eee 4 : : [Bedsof Ostreaé 2.25. <2 ate ae a ee : Nentiany eee 4 are 3 : |Mass of limestone, buhrstone, sand, and clay ...-.----------Lisnite. 2. i) ocelot ere 2 Secondary -.---[Lig : ? |Marl of New Jersey. : Jie 2:08 Ue. 220 ee 1
In 1828 Dr. C. T. Jackson, of Boston, in company with Francis Alger, published in the American Journal of Science a series of papers bearing on the mineralogy and geology of a part of Nova Scotia. PEP ie eters These, although mainly of a mineralogical nature, conWork in Nova Scotia, tained much material which at the time was valuable,
and were accompanied by a colored geological maps This showed the distribution of the various geological formation. (identified mainly on lithological grounds) of the northern half of the peninsula. A broad belt of transition clay-slate was represented as extending from the Gut of Canso to St. Marys Bay. This was bor dered on the northeast by a narrow bed of alluvium, the immediate border of the Bay of Fundy being occupied by trap rock or greenstone, as it was then called. A wide band of red and gray sandstone, alternating with shale and carrying beds of coal, occupied the region south of Minas Basin and all of the Cumberland County peninsula. This sandstone was described in considerable detail, and from its fossil contents was judged to be a secondary rock, although evidently older than

<<<Page: 325>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill.
SAMUEL GEORGE MorTON,
Physician and -aleontologist.

<<<Page: 326>>>

bay, ae
‘ 2 ' ; A AR ? ) = ~ ——— i i sit, = Lay, — | | L oy mf | ix . > ‘ f . | uy oa i t ’ _ De _ ‘ ~. 7

<<<Page: 327>>>

the trap—a recognition here of the value of fossils for stratigraphic purposes.
The clay-slate of the South Mountains he regarded as belonging to the transition class, since it dips 50° or 60° to the northwest, while the sandstone dips at an angle of only 10° or 15° to the north, clearly indicating the former rock to be of greater antiquity than the latter.
Moreover the slate contained only marine fossils. It was regarded also as having existed before the neighboring plutonic rocks had emerged from the central region of the earth.
The granite was regarded as being undoubtedly of greater age than the clay-slate, since it contained ** no relics of organized beings.” He did not, however, consider it as belonging to the oldest primitive rocks, since it showed at places a brecciated structure, contained black mica, and was ‘‘lacking in the metalliferous compounds and minerals which characterize the ancient formations.” ‘It probably belongs,” he wrote, ‘‘to the third or newest formation of Werner.’
Concerning the source of the trap and its er Og to the sandstone, he wrote:
The sharp fragments of the breccia and the breaking up of the strata also shew
. that the production of this rock or, rather, its nonconformable position on the sandstone strata, was effected suddenly. Whether it was ejected from the inaccessible depths of the Basin of Minas, or was thrown directly up through the strata of sandstone, we can not determine; but the occurrence of the trap only on the borders of the basin, which it almost surrounds, leads to the belief that this cavity was the crater, if it may be so called, from which, in former times, the trap rocks issued. The same remarks will apply to the whole North Mountain range, except that they probably originated from the unfathomable deeps of the Bay of Fundy, which is completely skirted on either side by trap rocks.
It will be noted here that Jackson for the first time cut loose from the Wernerian (Neptunian) doctrine. He realized this and stated that the evidence found convinced him of its insufficiency, and he was obliged to allow the superiority of the igneous theory as taught by Hutton, Playfair, and Daubeny.
Writing of the origin of the bed of hematite iron ore of the South Mountain region and its relation to the granites, he said:
Speculative geologists would doubtless regard the protrusion of the granite from the central regions of our globe as the cause of the disruption of the strata of clayslate which was thus raised from the bottom of the sea, bearing with it the spoils of the ocean. The layers would thus be broken, their edges thrown up at an angle,
and, by the contraction of the subordinate rocks, the superior strata being fixed, or the protrusion having carried the rocks so far as to poise the strata in a perpendicular position, a chasm would be formed into which the ore of iron was afterwards poured from above by a second submergence. From the similarity of fossils
we should think the bed of iron ore must have been immediately formed after the disruption of the strata.
In 1833 a revised edition of the work was published in the Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. This was referred to NAT Mus 1904——19

<<<Page: 328>>>

by Featherstonhaugh in his journal, as ‘‘ the neatest and best executed work on geology which has been gotten up in the United States.”
Dr. Charles T. Jackson was born at Plymouth, Massachusetts, June 21, 1805; was graduated at the Harvard Medical School in 1829, and settled down to the practice of medicine in Boston in 1833, having
spent a portion of the intervening years in Europe. pmerenioh ys He shortly, however, abandoned his medical practice . in order that he might devote himself to chemical and geological investigations more to his taste. In 1836. he was appointed State geologist of Maine, and pwhlished during the three years he held that office three octavo reports comprising some 1,000 pages and an atlas of 24 plates. These volumes, while recording a large number of disconnected observations, contain nothing of striking interest or importance. They are devoted also largely to economic questions. It must be remembered, however, that the country at that time was largely a wilderness, without rail or carriage roads, and many of his journeys were made by canoes on streams and lakes.
In 1839, as State geologist, he made a survey of Rhode Island, and in the year following submitted the manuscript copy for his report, 1,000 copies of which were issued, constituting the first, last, and only official account of the resources of the State ever published (Woodworth). In 1840 he began work upon the geology of New Hampshire, having been appointed geologist for that State September, 1839. This survey lasted until 1848, the final report appearing in 1844. It was while in the prosecution of this work that he made the discovery of tin ore at Jackson, and from it smelted the first bar of metallic tin produced in America.
In 1847 Jackson was appointed United States geologist to report on the public lands in the Lake Superior region, but spent only two seasons in the field, resigning for personal and political reasons in 1849. It was through his instrumentality, however, in part, that the copper regions of Lake Superior were opened up. Other economic work of Jackson which needs mention is that in connection with the discovery and description of the emery mines at Chester, Massachusetts.
After withdrawing from the Lake Superior survey, Jackson devoted himself largely to laboratory work, having an office at 32 Somerset street, Boston. As is well known, he was one of the claimants for priority in the discovery of the anesthetic properties of ether. He was well and favorably known as a chemist and all-round naturalist, and is described as ‘‘an enthusiastic personage, a ready conversationalist, even eloquent in his speech and fond of story telling—a man of large stature, square shoulders, and massive head.” As a geologist he was conservative almost to the point of obstinacy, as is shown by his steady adherence to the older forms of classification, though finding it necessary to depart somewhat from the ideas of Werner. He

<<<Page: 329>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 11.
State Geologist of Maine, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island.

<<<Page: 330>>>

we) ard

<<<Page: 331>>>

was but little given to theorizing, at least so far as is shown by his published works, and announced few, if any, new principles. His fame rests rather upon the extension of the geographic boundaries of our knowledge and the development of economic resources.
The matter of the relative age of rocks as indicated by their position with respect to horizontality, which had been discussed by Cleaveland in. 1816, Maclure in 1825, and Jackson in 1828, was again taken up by
Vanuxem in 1829. Ina paper in the American Jour-
Yanuxem’s Views, nal of Science in this year he called attention.to sev-
_ eral errors promulgated by the American geologists,
the first of which related to the existence of Alluvium and Tertiary
rocks in the Southern Atlantic States, as he had previously announced in conjunction with Morton.
Of almost equal importance was the objection raised at this time to the prevailing assumption that all of the so-called secondary rocks: were horizontal in position, or, on the other hand, that all horizontal rocks were, therefore, secondary. He pointed out that rocks composed of mechanical particles when undisturbed would form horizontally lying masses, but that both uplifting and downfalling forces had existed and there was no certainty that such had acted in a uniform manner, giving rocks of the same age the same inclination. Therefore the position of beds as regards horizontality, he. argued, could not be relied upon to indicate age. ‘*The analogy or identity of rocks,” he wrote, ‘‘I determine by their fossils in the first instance and their position and mineralogical characters in the second or last instance.” This is perhaps one of the most important generalizations that had thus far been made by any American geologist.
Vanuxem was a Philadelphian by birth, but received his mineralogical and geological training at the School of Mines in Paris at the time when Brongniart and Hauy were both active. Graduating in 1819, he returned to America and assumed the chair of chemistry in Columbia College, South Carolina, resigning in 1826 to undertake some private mining work in Mexico. In 1830 he removed to a farm near Bristol, Pennsylvania, which continued to be his home during the rest of his life, though connected with the New York State survey during 1837-43.
He is represented as a man of slight build, active and energetic, and with great powers of endurance; one who loved his work for the work’s sake, and was always averse to receiving pay for his services excepting when circumstances rendered it absolutely necessary.
According to his biographer, he had the reputation of being visionary and full of untenable theories. Be this as it may, his published writings show no such failing, and there are few men of his day who saw more clearly or reasoned more correctly. His published writings were, for that time, remarkably free from error. As a geologist he
Sketch of Vanuxem.

<<<Page: 332>>>

ranks with those who have put forward new ideas rather than those who have extended geographic boundaries.@
In 1829 there appeared the first American, from the third English, edition of Bakewell’s Introduction to Geology. This was edited by Silliman, and was accompanied by the latter’s Outline of the Course ene of Geological Lectures given in Yale College. The can of Bekemllis reason for the reprint, as given by: Professor Silliman
in the preface, was that he might place in the hands of his classes a comprehensive treatise on geology which they *‘ would be willing to read and able to understand.” ~The lecture notes, which merit our attention here, comprised 126 pages and may be reviewed in some detail as illustrating the character of instruction given at that time. Ea
Silliman announced himself as being neither a Wernerian nor Huttonian, but simply a student of facts. The classification was, however, largely Wernerian, though he says: ‘‘ It is one of convenience merely, and therefore there is no hesitation in deviating from it, or in substituting other views, when they appear preferable.” The discoveries of geology he regarded as consistent-with the biblical account, and ‘respecting the deluge, there can be but one opinion * * * geology fully confirms the scripture history of that event.”
The earth, he conceived, as at an early stage covered superficially by a watery abyss, containing in solution acids and alkalies such as would augment its solvent powers. He regarded the solubility of all the existing elements forming the crust of the globe as clearly and actually demonstrated, but found a serious difficulty in attributing to the quantity of waters that now exist * * * sufticient power to suspend all the materials of those rocks that bear marks of deposition from a state of chemical solution. Among other possibilities he, however, seriously considered that of a portion of the then existing waters having *‘ been received into cavities of the earth, to await a future call to deluge the surface anew.” From this solution the primitive rocks— granite, @neiss, mica, slate, and some of the limestones—were regarded as having been deposited, the author thus far following Werner.
The question as to the origin of mountains and of the continents was, with him, a vexed one. ‘‘Some imagine that entire mountain ranges and even entire continents Lave been raised by the force of subterranean fire,” and he saw no inconsistency in admitting that both igneous and aqueous agencies might have been active in their production. But, as to the source of the materials from which they were formed, he felt by no means clear. If supplied from regions imme-
“ According to Hall (Transactions of the American Association of Geologists, 184042), Vanuxem was the first to point out the similarity of some of the western formations with those of New York, identifying the lower rocks of Ohio, Kentucky, and Tennessee with the Trenton limestone.

<<<Page: 333>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 12.
Geologist of New York State Survey.

<<<Page: 334>>>

7 a 7 ‘ ® atl — ax “ ¥ ‘y , a). aD rat D0 ok OW ae ee A ale

<<<Page: 335>>>

diately beneath, what fills the void? he asked. If it is arched over from side to side, what security is there that subterranean tires will not melt down the abutments and undermine the continent? But, whether. the mountains were raised from below, left prominent by the subsidence of the contiguous regions, or were reared by accumulation, he regarded as immaterial for his present purpose. ‘‘1t is agreed on all hands that they existed before the subsidence of the early ocean, whose retreat must of course have first exposed their summits.”
Among the rocks belonging to the transition period he included the crystalline limestones—marbles—of Bennington, Middlebury, and Swanton in Vermont; the graywackes of the Chaudiere Falls in Lower Canada, of Rhode Island, and of the Catskill Mountains; the breecia marble of Point of Rocks, Maryland; and the conglomerates of Dorchester and other locatities in Massachusetts. These, as is well known, are now relegated to various widely separated horizons, extending from the Cambrian in the case of the Swanton marbles to the Triassic ‘in the case of that of Point of Rocks.
The manner in which the fossil organisms were conceived to have become imbedded in their various matrices is interesting:
We can not doubt that the animals received their existence and lived and died in an ocean full of carbonate of lime, in solution, or in mechanical suspension, or both. When they died they of course subsided to the bottom and were surrounded, as they lay, by the concreting calcareous matter; * * * the interstices were filled by the calcareous deposit, and this being more or less chemically dissolved, produced a firm, suberystalline mass, a section of which shows the animals sawn through.
Concerning the value of such remains, he was fully cognizant: ** Fossil organic bodies contained in rocks are now considered as good indicia of the geological age and character of the strata in which they occur.”
As with others of his time, Silliman was a believer in the Noachian deluge. Indeed, in point of detail, he outdid all others in his attempts at harmonizing apparently conflicting statements and ideas and wrote, as Huxley has aptly expressed it, ‘* with one eye on fact and the other on Genesis.” ‘* There is decisive evidence that not further back than a few thousand years an universal deluge swept the surface of the globe.” This deluge, it should be remarked, was considered quite distinct from the original, primeval ocean, and to have been brought about through direct intervention of the Creator for the purpose of punishing and partially exterminating the race. It was sudden in its occurrence, short in duration, and violent in its effects. In order to account for the biblical expression, *‘the fountains of the great deep were broken up,” Silliman offered the suggestion that, contemporaneous with the forty days and nights of rain, a deluge of water burst forth from the bowels of the earth, whence it was forced by the sudden disengagement of gases, the presence of the subterranean water he having

<<<Page: 336>>>

already conveniently accounted for by assuming that it was derived from the primeval ocean at the time it shrank away and left the dry land. Sufficient water to cover, when forced to the surface, the highest mountains, could, he calculated, be contained in a cavity the cubical content of which was only one two hundred and sixty-fifth part of the o'lobe.
Assuming that the antediluvian mountains were the same as to-day, but somewhat higher (say, 53 miles), and accepting the fact that they were covered by the water, Silliman proceeded to show that, with a time limit of forty days, the water rose at the rate of a foot in two minutes—i. e., 30 feet an hour, or 181 feet in the time of a common flood or ebb tide, 362 feet in the time of the ordinary ebb and flow of the tide, or 726 feet in twenty-four hours.
The inequalities in the surface of the land would, however, increase even this rate, and a very graphic picture is drawn of ‘* the inconceivably violent torrents and cataracts everywhere descending: the hills and mountains and meeting a tide rising at the rate of more than 700 feet in twenty-four hours.” .
It is to such a catastrophe that he believed to be due the extinction of whole races of vertebrate animals, like the Siberian mammoth and others. That such would be amply sufticient no one will be likely to doubt.

<<<Page: 337>>>

Crea oko Tell THE ERA OF STATE SURVEYS, FIRST DECADE, 1830-1839.
The decade beginning with 1830 stands out prominently as an era of public surveys. With the exception of the single abortive attempt made in North Carolina in 1824 no surveys at other than private expense had thus far been attempted, though the subject had more than once been agitated. During this interval, however, scarcely a year passed but witnessed the establishment of a State survey or the organization of an exploring expedition, to which a geologist was attached. Thus were established surveys in Massachusetts in 1830; in Tennessee in 1831; Maryland in 1834; New Jersey, Connecticut, and Virginia in 1835; Maine, New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania in 1836; Delaware, Indiana, and Michigan in 1837, and in New Hampshire and Rhode Island in 1839. In addition, the United States Government for the first time recognized the practical utility of the geologist by authorizing the surveys by G. W. Featherstonhaugh of the elevated country between the Missouri and Red rivers in 1834 and of the Coteau des Prairies in 1835, and by D. D. Owen of the mineral lands of lowa, Wisconsin, and II] linois in 1839.
The Wilkes exploring expedition, with J. D. Dana as geologist, was also organized and sent on its way in 1838. Beyond the limits of the United States Abraham Gesner was doing important work as provincial geologist in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. Eaton and Maclure were still in the field, but new workers were rapidly forcing their way to the front, and the influence of the two pioneers was already on the wane. Other names which appear in this decade and grow to prominence are Timothy A. Conrad, James Hall, William Mather, D. D. Owen, J. G. Percival, and H. D. Rogers.
In 1830 Eaton published the first edition of his Geological Text-book, an octavo volume of 64 pages, accompanied by a colored geological map exhibiting a general view of the economic geology of New York and part Sa ee eR of the adjoining States, the work for which had been Text-book, done under the direction of the Hon. Stephen Van 1830-1832.
Rensselaer. ,
The book: is worthy of a somewhat extended notice, since it gives us an insight into the character of the instruction furnished students at that time at the Rensselaer Institute, and also, since it was Eaton’s second attempt at preparing a text-book. His first attempt, it will be remembered, was his Index to the Geology of the Northern States,

<<<Page: 338>>>

published in 1818, a second edition of which appeared in 1820. In these works he was anticipated only by Parker Cleaveland’s Text-book of Geology and Mineralogy, which appeared in 1816, though the volume we are now discussing was anticipated in 1826 by the work of Emmons.
Eaton’s general views regarding the formation of the various geological deposits are summed up as follows: ‘** The earth is composed of: masses of rocks and detritus which are more or less extensive and uniform in their characteristic constituents.” ‘‘’These masses are mostly in regular deposits, and those of the same structure and composition regard the same order of superposition in relation to each other.” A few of the outermost masses, having no reference to each other, he called ‘* anomalous deposits.” He divided these regular deposits into five series, called classes, each of which ‘* consists of three formations which are found to be corresponding equivalents in all the series. The lowest formation in each series is slaly or argillaceous and always contains beds of carbon in the state of coal, anthracite, or plumbago.” The next is silicious and destitute of beds of carbon, and the uppermost, also lacking in carbon, is composed chiefly of carbonate of lime.
All the primitive formations he regarded as deposited in the form of concentric spheres like the coats of an onion. ‘These contained the materials of which all outer formations were afterwards made up. ‘*Soon after these deposits were laid down they were broken up through several northerly and southerly rents by a very great force exerted immediately beneath the lowest of the primitive strata. In this semi-indurated and broken state materials were readily furnished for the outer strata.” The source of the force producing these rents, it will be remembered, was in his early works regarded as problematical (p. 238).
In this last work he, however, solved the problem in a manner best understood by reference to the figures here reproduced, which he claimed were an improvement on those given in the Index.
The earth is here supposed to be cut into two parts at the fortysecond degree of north latitude. Large bodies of combustibles of an undetermined nature, it will be observed, are conveniently stored under what are now the regions of maximum disturbance, as the Rocky Mountains, New England, Great Britain, the Alps, Pyrenees, Caucasus, and the Himalayas.
In the second figure combustion is supposed to have taken place, whereby an explosion was produced which burst through the primitive and transition series, and appalling indeed must have been the results.
A geological segment, not reproduced here, gives in greater detail a section across the American continent, showing the internal nucleus, the areas of combustible matter under New York State and the Rocky Mountains, and the alternation of the regular deposits, illustrating his ideas as to the present condition of the earth. The combustible

<<<Page: 339>>>

-_Warmest
Spec. grav, 5.
Vhs 70 bably
undisturbed
Fic. 19.—Eaton’s Transver:
se Sections of the Globe.
————————

<<<Page: 340>>>

materials at this time are supposed to be nearly exhausted, although still sufficient to cause ordinary earthquakes.
The superficial rocks of the crust, as shown in this section, were divided into four series, each of which was made up, in ascending order, of Carboniferous, Quartzose and Calcareous rocks. The definitions of the various classes forming the transition and secondary remained much as in the early work, excepting that he divided his Class HI into a lower and upper division and added a fifth series, the Tertiary, this latter including those strata which contained remains of viviparous vertebral animals.
The so-called anomalous deposits were those which have been produced at the earth’s surface by fusion or disintegration of regular strata, and were divided into (1) Volcanic deposits, (2) Diluvion, (3) Postdiluvion, and (4) Analluvion, the last including what are known as residual deposits—that is, those which result from decay in situ.
In the second edition of this work, published in 1832, the same general ideas were advanced regarding the formation and uplifting of the various rocks; a much more satisfactory chapter added on the character and objects of geology, and also a chapter on organized remains as auxiliaries in the determination of rocky strata, in this respect the second edition being decidedly in advance of the first.¢
Many of the ideas put forward in the chapter on the character and objects of geology are, in the light of to-day, peculiarly interesting. The desire to harmonize all phenomena witnessed with the biblical account of the deluge was still manifested:
Geological facts lead us to the history of created beings long anterior to written records. Such records may be erroneous, and we have no means of correcting them. But geological records are perpetual, unvarying, and can not be vitiated by interpolations or counterfeits. For example: The written history of the deluge might be varied more or less by erroneous copies and incorrect translations. But the geological records of divine wrath poured out upon the rebellious inhabitants of the earth at that awful period can never be effaced or changed. These later records add, to the Mosaic account, that even the antediluvial beasts of the forests and fens partook of the ferocious nature and giant strength of antediluvial man. :
The bed of Lake Ontario Eaton regarded as made by the rapid disintegration of Saliferous and Carboniferous rock, while the beds of Lake Champlain and the Mohawk and Hudson rivers were thought to have originated, for the most part, by the disintegration of rocks at
«The edition of 1832 was issued and sold under direct supervision of the author. The following note relative thereto is in possession of the present writer:
To General Howe (or whoever has received my geological text-book), deliver a copy of my text-book to Professor Silliman and another to Professor Tulley (?), on my account. Charge them to William S. Parker and I will cause the same to be charged to me and also to be credited to you. July 24, 1832.
; Amos HaTon.
N. B. I publish this edition myself, and have paid all cash, by way of trial.

<<<Page: 341>>>

line of contact between different formations. ‘*The deep bed of the Hudson across the Highlands, however, may, without extravagance, be ascribed to the fusion by volcanic heat which produced the basaltic Palisades below the chasm. The same hypothesis may be well applied to the channel of the Connecticut River north of the northern line of Massachusetts, whence the volcanic lava flowed which now covers a series of basaltic prominences which form the northern part of Long Island Sound.” And this as late as 1830-1832! Yet the Rensselaer school, where Eaton was teaching, was, and continued to be for many years, the chief training school for American geologists. Fortunately, his students were taught to ¢/i7n/: and not to blindly follow.
Eaton claimed at this date (1832) to have devoted more time and labor to American geology than any other individual, and credits Gen. Stephen Van Rensselaer with having furnished the necessary facilities. ‘**T made the first attempt,” he wrote, ‘‘ at a systematic arrangement of American rock strata.” The various discoveries which he thought might be claimed as having been made under the auspices above noted are as follows:
(1) That each of the classes of rocks always begins with a Carboniferous slate and terminates with calcareous rocks, having a middle formation of quartzose.
(2) The discovery of ferriferous stratum containing argillaceous iron ores, and which extends unbroken from near Utica to the extreme termination of Lake Ontario, in Upper Canada.
(3) That the bog-ore properly belongs to the Tertiary formation.
(4) That talcose slate is the grand repository of hematitic iron ore, peroxide of manganese, and native gold.
(5) That the Corniferous lime rock is the true carboniferous only.
(6) That crystalline granite is not entitled to a place among general strata, as it is never found other than as a bed or vein.
(7) That granular quartz rock and granular lime rock are entitled to a place among general strata.
(8) That all primitive rocks, excepting granular quartz and lime rocks, are contemporaneous.
(9) That there is evidence of a diluvian stratum having been deposited near the termination of the deluge, which formed an universal mantle about the earth.
In discussing the *‘ regular” deposits, he wrote:
They exhibit grounds for conjecture, if not absolute demonstration, that the surface of the earth had undergone five general modifications which no animals survived. Four of these modifications were followed by as many new creations of animals, two new creations succeeding the final depositions of all regular strata. In
the whole there appeared to have been five creations of animals at least, and perhaps ten, since the primitive mass of earth was formed.

<<<Page: 342>>>

In his chapter on soils, it is instructive to note, he recognized and emphasized a principle now generally accepted, to the effect that the fertility of the soils does not depend upon ultimate chemical constitution, but rather upon physical properties; that a fertile soil should contain, first, sufficient stones and pebbles to keep it open and ‘loose; second, suflicient clay to absorb and hold water in the right proportion; and third, sufficient fine sand to prevent the clay from baking in time of drought.
That the fertility of a soil could not be told by a chemical analysis had been stated by him some years earlier, as follows:
Suppose, in one specimen, the soil, etc., should be quartz, in another feldspar, in another hornblende, in another sapphire, in another diamond, would there be any difference in the influence of the sand, etc., upon the productive quality of the soil on account of the different ultimate elements of which these different minerals are composed? Should they be so far decomposed, at some future period, as to become an impalpable powder, perhaps they may then differ in their influence upon vegetation. Perhaps we may foretell the future state of the country a century or two to come, where such extreme disintegration is effected. But the difference in the ultimate constituents can not possibly affect the question of fertility or barrenness at the time the analysis is made. For whatever effect can be ascribable to the one is equally a property of the other. They all hold water on their surfaces by the attraction of adhesion; they all keep the soil duly open and porous to give passage to the roots of vegetables; they all aid alike in bracing up plants and in keeping them in a fixed position. etc. Whatever is effected by one is effected by all—size, form, quantity, and all circumstances, other than their constituent elements, agreeing. ¢
To this second edition he added a chapter of some 11 pages on the science of mining, one of 12 pages on localities, and 5 pages on fossils. His gradually expanding views as to the value of fossils in geological work are shown in his paper on Geological Equivalents of this year (1832). He here advanced the idea that the enumeration of the mineral constituents of rocks could never be satisfactorily applied for the determination of the relative position of strata, but that recourse must be had to the organic remains. ‘* We find the same organized remains associated with equivalent strata in every part of the earth.” ?
If we are to judge from the preface of the edition of 1830, Eaton was by no means lacking in egotism, and had, at times, an unfortunate way of expressing his opinions, such as must have aroused antagonism
aAmerican Journal of Science, XII, June, 1827 ap: 370.
>The first edition of Eaton’s work was somewhat savagely reviewed by a writer in the North American Review for April, 1831. From its perusal one might be led to suppose that the following extract from a letter by Eaton to Silliman in 1839 had a sounder basis than Eaton would himself be likely to acknowledge. He wrote: ‘I was one of your earliest correspondents on geology, consequently it is to be presumed that I have introduced more errors to the public through your journal than any other individual.’’ Most wyiters will say things of themselves which they would resent if said by others.

<<<Page: 343>>>

in the minds of his collaborators. Thus,.in referring to the work just mentioned, he wrote:
A text-book is too small a name for these days of puffing arrogance. But I propose to present all my supposed heresies to the geological fraternity in this form and under this title. And I beg the favor of the most rigorous criticism upon this book, small as itis. To stimulate men of science to the work of examination and of criticism, I will state that I intend to publish considerable in scientific journals, also a full system upon this plan. As I have had more than 7,000 pupils already (rather auditors), and shall probably have more still, it will be well for them ‘‘to be on the alert’’ if I am propagating errors. I am not in sport; I have, during the last fifteen years, traveled over 17,000 miles for the express purpose of collecting geological materials, the results of which are comprised in this little octavo pamphlet and exhibited in the accompanying map and wood cuts.
I may be accused of fickleness, on account of the changes which appear in every
successive book I publish. I confess this is the ninth time I have published a geological nomenclature, and that I made changes in each of more or less importance. But I have always consulted my scientific friends, and every change was founded on new discoveries in ‘‘matters of fact.”’
And further on:
Students for whom this text-book is intended may feel no interest in anything personal relating to myself. But I will throw this paragraph in their way. I have been accused of arrogance for stating facts relating to American geology without formally bowing tc European authorities. * * * I confess that this is a kind of ‘“ipse dixit’’ text-book. It is so, because the plan does not admit of demonstration. In a future publication I intend to cite authorities from tiature to illustrate my views. But I am prepared to abandon any of them, as I have frequently done heretofore, in cases of numerous errors, to which I am still subject.
Geology is a progressive science, and he who has any respect for his future reputation should be exceedingly cautious about committing himself on matters of fact or speculation. I confess that I have most egregiously violated this rule, but there are peculiar circumstances in my case, arising from my being ‘‘a hireling drudge”’ to the most munificent patron of this science (Stephen Van Rensselaer), which will palliate, at least, if not justify.
I despise arrogance; but Iam within sixteen years of the ‘‘three score and ten,”’ when the mind of man is averaged beyond the period of vigorous effort. About two score of these years have been devoted to natural science. I offer this as an apology for some dogmas forbidden to youth./@
In July of 1831 there appeared the first number of G. W. Featherstonhaugh’s Monthly American Journal of Geology and Natural History. This proved a short-lived but vigorously conducted journal in anise which essays on geology, as understood by the editor, Journal of Geology, occupied a leading part in each number. Troubles,
financial and otherwise, beset the venture, and amongst the ** otherwise” may be mentioned a lack of appreciation and support where hé apparently had a right to expect both. ‘So that a work which has hitherto been stamped with general approbation, * * *
“One can almost imagine him saying with Emerson ‘‘ What is well done I feel as if I did, what is ill done I reck not of,’’

<<<Page: 344>>>

has not been permitted to have a single subscriber in New Haven, the pretended seat of an American Geological Society,” is his fierce plaint in the ninth issue.“
Featherstonhaugh was a man of English birth and some means, who came to America when quite AS apparently merely through love of
« Featherstonhaugh’s efforts seem to have been better appreciated abroad flan at home, if we may judge from the following:
The editor lays before his readers, with a just pride and entire satisfaction, the following communication from the president of the Geological Society of London, and other distinguished naturalists:
Lonpon, June 18, 1831.
My Dear Str: We, your undersigned friends in England, are happy to learn that you propose to establish a new periodical work in the United States, which, in embracing all subjects connected with the natural history of America, is to be specially devoted to the accumulation of geological facts and phenomena.
Knowing your zeal and ability, we have great hopes that a work so directed will meet with every encouragement in your country, and we are certain that it can not but be of service to the cause of science in general.
We shall at all times be desirous of aiding you with any communication in our power, and we subscribe ourselves,
Yours, very faithfully, RopericK Impry MurcHison,
President of the Geological Society of London. Davies GILBERT, Vice-President Royal Society. W. D. ConyBrare, F. R. &., F. G. S., ete. A. Srpewick, F. R.S., F. G. &., ete., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Wm. Bucxuanp, D. D., F. BR. S., etc., Christ Church College, Oxford. GEORGE BELLAS GREENOUGH, F. R.S., ete. CHARLES Stoxks, F. R. &., ete.
P. S.—I can not refrain, in particular, on my own part, from expressing the desire which I feel for the appearance of the proposed publication, as likely to conduce in the most important points to the effective progress of geology; to ascertain in detail the suite of formations, and the series of organic remains distinguishing them in a new continent, so widely separated from the old, and embracing such a range of various climate. So to compare the phenomena with those of Europe has ever appeared to me the most material desideratum in geology, for we may be sure that any analogies which are common to localities geographically so distant, and placed under physical conditions so distinct, are, in truth, analogies belonging generally to the whole globe; and thus we shall obtain data adequate for the foundation of a general geological theory.
Well acquainted with the attention you have paid to the formations on this side of the Atlantic, [am convinced that the execution of this task can not fall into more competent hands.
W. D. ConyBEARE. G. W. FraTHEeRstoNHAUGH, Esq., Philadelphia,

<<<Page: 345>>>

travel. Being of good presence—standing more than 6 feet in height, well educated, and an accomplished musician—he easily procured admission into the best of society, married an American girl, and established himself at Duanesbure, in New York, but was, apparently, never naturalized. He appears to have taken an active interest in agricultural, scientific, and political affairs, and, in company with Stephen Van Rensselaer, became one of the directors of the railroad from Albany to Schenectady, a charter for which was granted in 1826. The death of his wife and two daughters, however, caused him to leave Duanesburg and turn his thoughts toward exploration and science. He therefore removed to Philadelphia, where he established, in 1831, the journal above mentioned.
In 1834, and again in 1835, he was appointed a Government geologist, but his work was extremely superficial and of only historical interest. Concerning his work in F'6. 20.—George William Featherthe elevated country lying between the MisScie oe _ souri and Red rivers—the Ozark region—and his subsequent work in the upper Mississippi region, Whitney, after numerous quotations, remarks: “
Sketch of Featherstonhaugh.
From the above it will be seen that this so-called geological reconnaissance was about as worthless rubbish as could well be put together, neither correctly describing any facts which came under their author’s observation, nor giving any theoretical views worthy a moment’s notice, except from their absurdity.
The year 1831 seems, on the whole, to have been singularly uneventful in geological history, but few papers of importance appearing, although undoubtedly a large amount. of hard, preliminary work was
being done. Mee ea teatese. Perhaps the most important event of the year was
the establishment of the State geological survey of Tennessee, with Gerard Troost, then professor of geology and chemistry in the University of Nashville, but formerly of Philadelphia, at its head. This survey continued in existence until 1845, during which time eight annual reports were made, the first two of which were not published. The third report, made in October, 1835, comprised but 32 octavo pages and dealt particularly with the extent of the coal formations and investigations of the soil, marls, and iron ores. It was accompanied by a geological map, in which the coal area, colored in pink, was indicated as extending ina gradually narrowing belt from the northeast to the southwest in the region lying west of the Tennessee River.
@ Upper Mississippi Lead Region, 1862, p. 80.

<<<Page: 346>>>

Troost’s fourth report appeared in 1837, in form of a pamphlet of 37 pages. Of these the first 20 were given up to a general exposition of geology, as he understood it. This was followed by a description of
‘ that part of the State lying south of the Hiwassee eee River and east of the Tennessee, and known as the Ocoee district. A map of this district and a colored geological section were given, the latter extending in a general northeast to southwest direction from the Tennessee River to a point near Nicajack. The entirearea to the point of the intersection of the Chattanooga Creek was colored as occupied by ** grauwacke,” with outcrops of primordial limestone coming to the surface near Coqua Creek. The region to the west of Chattanooga Creek was represented as underlaid by mountain limestone, with the Coal Measures forming Lookout Mountain and Raccoon Mountain. These Carboniferous rocks, it should be noted, were indicated as unconformable with all other rocks of the region.
The fifth annual report was made November, 1839, and comprised all told 75 pages, including an appendix. This was accompanied by a colored geological map of the State, the first which had thus far appeared, and also a colored section across the entire State from Roane Mountain, in Carter County, to Randolph, on the Mississippi. On this map the Roane Mountain rock was colored as primordial, mostly granite. An area from and including the Smoky Mountains to a point a little west of Kingston, on the Clinch River, was colored as transition, composed of graywacke, slate, limestone, and sandstone, all alternating with each other, and in strata highly inclined and dipping toward the southeast. From the last-named point to the Tennessee River the country was stated to be underlaid by mountain limestone horizontally stratified, upon which rested the Cumberland Mountains, composed of CoalMeasure rocks, mostly horizontally stratified, and the Buffalo and Harpeth hills, just east of the Tennessee River, which were put down as formed of siliceous strata, assuming sometimes an earthy appearance, sometimes that of chert, and horizontally stratified.
The region west of the Tennessee was given as mostly occupied by secondary strata composed of Cretaceous marl, greensand, and clay, horizontally stratified.
It should be noted that Troost, while seemingly recognizing the importance of the fossils carried by the rocks of various ages, did not attempt to utilize them systematically as means of correlation. On page 18, however, he wrote:
Troost’s Fifth Annual Report.
The lowest part of the stratum, where it is near the encrinital limestone, often contains members of Encrinites, and other fossils of that stratum, and are invariably of a caleareous nature. This shows that the formation of those siliceous strata 1s more or less contemporaneous with the encrinital strata.

<<<Page: 347>>>

The condition of paleontological science at this date (1832), so far as it related to the Trilobites at least, is shown by Dr. Jacob Green’s Monograph of the Trilobites of North America, a duodecimo volume of
93 pages and one plate of ten figures. Thirty-three Green's Monograph, snecies were described. In a supplement bearing date of 1835 this number was increased to forty. A series of casts, examples of which are still to be found in many of our educational institutions, accompanied the original publication.
The true nature of the Zr7lobite was at that time not well understood. Green himself seems at first inclined to agree with Latreille, who, owing to their supposed footless condition, placed them intermediate between the Chitons and the Articulates.“ Brongniart, Dekay, and others, it will be remembered, considered them as belonging to the Entomostraca.
A contemplated chapter on this branch of the subject remained unwritten, since the aua ane thor felt that all matters of dispute were ** put to rest by the late discovery of some living trilobites in the southern seas.” Concerning the exact position in the zoological scale of these *‘living” forms there still exists some doubt. Dr. James Eights, who originally described them under the name of Speroma bumastiformis, seems to have regarded them as Isopods. Emmons, in his Geology of the Second District of New York, on the other hand, referred to them as Trilobites, while Zittel, in the latest edition of his Handbook on Paleontology, refers them once more to the Isopods.
Green’s ideas as to the value of fossils as indices of geological age were not as advanced as those of most of his colleagues or as his time would lead one to expect. After quoting some of the prevalent opinions, he adds ina footnote:
Nothing can be more opposed to true science than to pronounce on priority of formation or the comparative age of rocks from either their structure or the organic remains they present.
Concerning Broneniart’s expressed opinion relative to the preponD2 derating value of fossil over lithological criteria, he wrote:
This seems to us to imply an admission that nothing definite can be inferred from the nature of the rocks; moreover, that between the nature of the rock and the organic remains there may bea paipable discrepancy. * * * The event has proved, from what we have already mentioned, that no evidence as to priority can be obtained from the nature of the fossil remains displayed in particular strata.
«The Trilobites have since been shown to have feet. NAT Mus 1904-——20

<<<Page: 348>>>

And this from a paleontologist!
Although the geological map referred to on page 219 was the most important of Maclure’s works and the one upon which his fame as a geologist largely rests, there are at least two papers of later date that ee. at ee thy of consideration. The first of these bears theWest indies” the title Observations on the Geology of the West ae India Islands from Barbados to Santa Cruz, Inclusive. This was printed for the author in pamphlet form in 1832, while he was at New Harmony, Indiana. The mineralogical nature of the materials composing the islands was noted as well as many of the structural features. He thought to divide the islands into two distinct classes on geological grounds, the first, or most eastern, comprising the islands of batbeaae Marie Galante, Grande Terre in Guadeloupe, Desirade, Antigua, St. Bartholomew, St. Martin, Anguilla, and Santa Cruz. These he found composed mainly of shell-limestone or madrepore rock belonging to the transition class, though sometimes capped by secondary rocks. The second class, including the Grenadines, St. Vincent, St. Lucien, Martinique, Dominica, Basse Terre in Guadeloupe, Montserrat, Nevis, St. Christopher, St. Kustatia, and Saba, were more or less volcanic and regarded as probably thrown up from the bed of the ocean. Such an origin he felt to be proven by their containing intermingled masses of volcanic rock and coral or madrepore limestone. The idea that volcanic activity was dependent upon combustion, as the word is commonly used, still prevailed with him, and from the fact that the line of islands corresponded closely with the strike of the rocks composing them he thought that the seat of combustion probably existed in some stratified substance running parallel to the general stratification of the surrounding rocks. Further, since he found on the islands soufrieres which deposited sulphur as well as formed alum rock, he concluded that sulphur was one of the combustible ingredients.
Maclure’s second paper referred to, An Essay on the F ormation of Rocks, or an Inquiry into the ane Origin of their Present Form and Structure, appeared in 1838. In this the rocks were divided Macureonthe Nt three classes: First. The Neptunian, including Formation of Rocks, those plainly of aqueous origin. Second, the volcanic;
and third, those of doubtful origin, ander which head he would place gneiss, mica, and ‘clay slate, primitive limestone, sye nite, granite, greenstone, ete.
In 1832 the melancholy Conrad began the publication of his work Pere pie rel the fossil shells of the Tertiary formations of N orth North America, America. This marks, according to Dr. G. D. Harris,
‘the beginning of systematic research into this part of our continent’s history.”
The work was published in parts and in small editions, largely at Conrad’s own expense, the numerous plates of illustrations being pre

<<<Page: 349>>>



<<<Page: 350>>>

‘ yy
\ \ \
Ambherst College.
Professor of Gec logy,

<<<Page: 351>>>

pared, even to the drawing on stone, by himself. Nos. 1 and 2 appeared in 1832, and Nos. 3 and 4 in 1833. These editions early became exhausted, and in 1893 a new edition was prepared through the instrumentality of Doctor Harris. It will be well to mention bere that a second edition of his Medial Tertiary fossils was brought out this same year by Dr. W. H. Dall, working in conjunction with the Wagner Free Institute of Philadelphia.
The work of 1832-33 contained little of a strictly geological nature, being mainly devoted to a description of the various fossil invertebrates belonging to the Tertiary formations. Conrad divided the Tertiary. in conformity with the English custom, into an Upper Marine formation, a Middle Tertiary formation, aad a Lower Tertiary for mation, and gave the geographic extensions of each so far as they are known.
In 1830 the legislature of Massachusetts passed a resolve authorizing the appointment of a surveyor to make a general survey of the Commonwealth, and on the fifth of June following, on the recommene PS eat vey dation of Governor Lincoln, further authorized the of Massachusetts, appointment of “some suitable person” to make, in
Beis) connection with this survey, a geological examination of the region involved. On February 2, 1831, the limits of the geological survey were extended so as to allow the inclusion in the report of a list of the mineralogical, botanical, and zoological productions.
Prof. Edward Hitchcock, then professor of chemistry and natural history in Amherst College, was selected as the ‘* suitable person,” and presented, early in 1832, a report of 72 pages, with a colored geological map, on the economic geology of the State. Of this 600 copies were ordered printed. In the early part of 1833 reports on the topographic geology (37 pages), scientific geology (430 pages), and the catalogues of animals and plants, with an appendix containing a list of the rocks and minerals described (248 pages), were likewise submitted.
The legislature promptly accepted these reports likewise and ordered the printing of 1,200 copies, including a reprint of the report first made. Altogether these formed an octavo volume of 692 pages, with numerous figures in the text, and a folio volume of 19 plates, including a colored map. The publication of this report marks an epoch in American geological work, since it brought to a successful conclusion the first survey of an entire State at public expense.“ It is true that spasmodic beginnings had been made in North and South Carolina, but such were so lacking in breadth of conception and failed so utterlyin execution that it is only by courtesy that they can be considered as geological surveys at all. Under these conditions a detailed review of the contents of the reports will not be out of place here.
«The total expense to the State of the three years’ work, exclusive of cost of printing, was $2,030.

<<<Page: 352>>>

In the consideration of the application of Beaumont’s theory of mountains to those of Massachusetts, Hitchcock thought to find six systems of strata and contemporaneous uplift in the State. These six systems as enumerated are: (1) The oldest meridional system, (2) the trap system, (3) the latest meridional system, (4) the northeast and southwest system, (5) the east and west system, and (6) the northwest and southeast system.
The Hoosac Mountains, considered under his oldest meridional sys-
tem, he regarded as due to two different epochs of elevation, the last
taking place after the deposition of the new red sandstone, as was shown by the slight dip (15° to 20°) of the latter, while the slates and gneisses of the range stand nearly vertical. The force which gave rise to mountain uplift he regarded as gravity acting on the crust as the nucleus gradually shrunk away in process of cooling.
Not the least interesting chapters in Hitchcock’s work are those relating to the unstratified rocks. Here, under the name of greenstone, he included the entire series of basic and intermediate eruptives now classed as melaphyrs, diabases, and diorites. Their mineral composition was stated, however, as hornblende and feldspar, though the mineral identified as hornblende has been proven by modern microscopic methods to have been almost wholly augite. Columnar, compact, amyedaloidal, and porphyritic varieties were recognized.
Concerning the igneous origin of these rocks he professed little doubt, and he accounted for their appearance in the form of continuous sheets on the assumption that they were poured out, not from craters but from linear openings produced by the shrinkage of the earth’s interior. Thus early was recognized the phenomena of fissure eruptions, as later developed by Geikie and others.
Commenting on the occurrence of the greenstone in ‘‘ veins,” as at Nahant, he expressed the opinion that the slate in which these veins occurred could not have been solid at the time of the intrusion, this on account of the size of the fissures, which seemed to him to be too wide to have been formed by desiccation. Evidently the possibility of the formation of these fissures by dynamic agencies acting on consolidated materials was not then realized.
Under the name of porphyry he included the compact eruptive rocks now classed mainly as aporhyolites or quartz porphyries, such as form the cliffs at Marblehead, and are also found in other localities, as Hingham and Malden. Their porphyritic structure he thought could result only from igneous solution, The base of these porphyries he stated to be of compact feldspar, which he regarded as formed by the melting down of preexisting feldspathic rocks.
The slaty structure sometimes shown, and which is now recognized as flow structure, he regarded as representing the original structure of the slaty rock from which the porphyry was derived by fusion.

<<<Page: 353>>>

This view is interesting when compared with those put forward nearly half a century later by one who, working under the misguided T. Sterry Hunt, argued in favor of the sedimentary origin of the entire series.
Hitchcock thought it probable that the mica slate and gneisses of the Hoosac Range passed laterally into one another, “owing to a decrease in the amount of feldspar in the gneissic rock. Such a transition seemed to him as possible, whether the rocks were to be regarded as direct crystallizations from aqueous solution or sedimentaries crystallized through the influence of heat. He himself
vas inclined to the belief that these schists and gneisses were metamorphosed sediments, since he could conceive of no chemical processby which such a variety of minerals as those contained by them could have crystallized out simultaneously from solution. Such a crystallization, he argued, would be differential.
He utilized this same argument in writing on the origin of the granites. These latter he looked upon as resulting from the melting down of other rocks, gneisses being due to the more or less complete fusion and crystallization of feldspathic sandstone. The deeper lying portions, which were most highly heated, gave rise to granitic gneiss, and those further removed gave rise to the porphyritic, lamellar, and schistic varieties. It will be of interest to compare these views with those advanced by Clarence King nearly forty years later.
Hitchcock classed under the name of graywacke the siliceous conglomerate of Dorchester and Roxbury (now considered-as of Cambrian age), and, indeed, every conglomerate sandstone and fragmentary formation that was older than the red sandstone and coal formation, thus avowedly following Humboldt.”
Under a misapprehension regarding the character of the amygdules, he included under the name of variolo/d wacke the melaphyr of Brighton and elsewhere, as well as other altered Paleozoic lavas found at Hingham, Needham, and Saugus; also the siliceous or flinty slates of Nahant and jasper of Newport.
The red sandstones of the Connecticut Valley were rightly set down as belonging to the New Red, he having identified the upper portions of the bed with the New Red sandstone of Europe through the presence of ‘‘ vertebral” remains found at East Windsor, Connecticut, and Sunderland and other localities in Massachusetts. He still, however, thought it not impossible that the lower portion of the beds might correspond to the Old Red sandstone of Europe. It will be remembered that in the American Journal of Science for 1823 he considered these upper beds as belonging to the coal formation, on account of the included thin seams of bituminous coals.
“Humboldt’s Essay on the Trend of Rocks in the Two Hemispheres appeared in 1822,

<<<Page: 354>>>

The Tertiary formations of the State he divided into two general groups, the most recent being made to include the beds of blue plastic clay alternating with layers of white siliceous sand, and the second division the plastic clays of Gayhead and Nantucket.
Naturally the drift so abundantly distributed over the surface was attributed to the action of the Noachian deluge. ‘‘ That seen about Cape Ann can not fail to impress every reasoning mind with the conviction that a deluge of tremendous power must have swept over this cape. Nothing but a substratum of syenite could have stood before its devastating energy.”
One of the points which must impress the reader who is at all conversant with the work of modern physiographers is the inability of Hitchcock, as well as his contemporaries, to understand the relationship existing between a river and the channel in which it flowed. Discussing the course of the Connecticut River, he wrote: ‘‘ The ordinary laws of physical geography seem here to be set at defiance,” and ** the geologist will be surprised to find it crossing the greenstone ridge” at its highest part, i. e., through the gorge between Mounts Holyoke and Tom. The facts that he deduced from this and other like illustrations are that ‘‘ surely the Connecticut River did not excavate its own bed, but the gorges through which it and the Deerfield and Westfie!d pass were excavated to a considerable depth before they began to flow.”
The student of to-day need scarcely be reminded that the river did excavate its own channel and ran in essentially its present position before the warping which brought the trap ridge across its course took place.
Hitcheock was not a believer in the doctrine of uniformitarianism; indeed, while perhaps not an extreme catastrophist, he combated vigorously the views put forth by Lyell in his Principles,“ and argued for the greater intensity of geological agencies in the earlier periods of the earth’s history. Some of his reasons for this belief are worthy of attention. He believed the continent to have been elevated above the ocean, not little by little, but by a few paroxysmal efforts of volsanic force. Since this force, as acting during the past four thousand years, seemed too feeble to result in the elevation of a single mountain chain, so, he argued, it must have been more energetic in previous epochs.
The fact that the older rocks are more distorted and highly metamorphosed than the younger was also regarded as indicative of the greater intensity of the earlier productive agencies. Singularly enough, the near-shore origin of beds of conglomerate was not realized, the occasional occurrence of such among sedimentary rocks being regarded as due to the ‘occasional recurrence of powerful
«The first edition of this celebrated work appeared in 1830.

<<<Page: 355>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830--1839. pels
debacles of water,” the like of which can not be produced by any causes now in operation.
Concerning the origin of valleys there was manifested a great dearth of knowledge. ‘‘I am in doubt whether there is more than one valley in Massachusetts that is, strictly speaking, a valley of denudation,” that being the one lying between Mount Toby and Sugar Loaf. The valleys in Berkshire and Worcester and possibly also that of the Merrimac River were regarded as primary, more or less modified by deluges and other abrading agencies.
Accompanying this report was a volume of nineteen plates, comprising a colored geological map of the State; nine general and special views; four of fossils; a map of the valley of the Connecticut; a map showing the direction of the strata; two plates of sections, three of which ran in an east and west direction and one in a north and south; and one *‘ tabular view” of the rocks and their imbedded minerals.
On the map the rocks were colored as belonging to six groups, as below. It will be noted that there is no attempt at other than a lithological classification until the New Red sandstone and Tertiary are reached.
1. Granite. Syenite. 3. Greenstone. 4. Porphyry. 5. Gneiss. Hornblende slate associated with gneiss. 7. Quartz rocks associated with gneiss. 8. Mica slate. 9. Quartz rock. 3 410. Talcose slate. 11. Chlorite slate. 12. Hornblende slate. , fe Limestone. 14. Seapolite rock. Miscellaneous eee Serpentine. 15. Grauwacke. 5 116. Argillaceous slate.
17. New Red sandstone.
18. Tertiary. |
bo a
19. Diluvium. 20. Alluvium.
Deposits and mines of useful minerals were noted, among them being plumbago, coal, peat, lead, iron, copper, and manganese.
The drawings of fossils and the general views were the work of Mrs. Hitchcock.
In 1837 Doctor Hitchcock was commissioned by Governor Everett to make a further geological and mineralogical survey in which

<<<Page: 356>>>

oL2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.
economic problems should be of primary importance. His report appeared in the form of House Document No. 52, under date of 1838. In 1839 the legislature authorized the reprinting of all the reports, with such additions and corrections as the author chose to make. This reprint appeared in 1841 in the form of two quarto volumes of 831 pages, the first 126 of which are given up to a discussion of the soils, their kind, origin, and fertility.
Hitchcock here followed closely Sir H. Davy, Berzelius, and 8. L. Dana, and dwelt particularly upon the problematic geine, a substance resulting from vegetable decomposition and supposed to contain all the essentials of plant food. This part of the work is of interest as containing C. T. Jackson’s expressed and well-founded doubt as to the existence of such a body, and a long letter from S. L. Dana attempting to prove the chemical unity of the compound. Some twenty pages were devoted to fossil fuels, with especial reference to the anthracite ot Worcester, Massachusetts, and of Rhode Island, and the bituminous coal of the New Red sandstone. A list of peat bogs, with reference to their possible availability for fuel, was also given. Building stones were discussed, and two pages devoted to the subject of rock decay and its probable cause. Metallic and nonmetallic ores were described.
Many of the views expressed in the early reports were repeated here with but slight modification. He still adhered to his six distinct systems of strata which were tilted at various epochs. The oldest, called the meridional system, embraced all the primary rocks lying between the valleys of the Connecticut and Worcester. The second, or northeast and southwest system, included the gneiss range in the southeastern part of Worcester County, the central part of Middlesex, and a. part of Essex. The third, or east and west system, included the gneiss around New Bedford, the graywacke, and a large part of the syenite, porphyry, and greenstone of the State. The fourth, or Hoosac Mountain system, embraced all the rocks between the Connecticut and Hudson rivers, except the trap and New Red sandstone. The fifth included the New Red sandstone, and the sixth, or northwest and southeast system of rocks, mainly gneiss occurring in the southern part of the State bordering upon Rhode Island. In the geological map which accompanied this report he employed but six colors, which marked off the rocks of the State into six distinct groups, the members of each of which, with the exception of the fourth, were so nearly related that he thought they might be regarded as belonging to the same formation. In his first group he placed the granite, syenite, greenstone, and porphyry; in the second, gneiss and the associated hornblende slate and quartz rock; in the third, mica slate, with the associated quartz rock and hornblende slate, talcose slate, and chlorite slate; in the fourth, limestone, steatite, and serpentine; in the fifth, metamorphic slates, graywacke, argillaceous slate,

<<<Page: 357>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830-1839. ole
coul measures, and the New Red sandstone, and in the sixth group, Kocene Tertiary, diluyium, and alluvium.
Hitchcock described the Connecticut as flowing through a synclinal valley, a valley which became nearly filled by the red sandstone deposit. This last, he thought, had since been eroded away, so that the valley as it now exists may ‘‘in some sense” be considered ‘‘as a valley of denudation.” Most of the valleys in Massachusetts he still regarded as valleys due *‘to the elevation and dislocation of the strata.”
He noted that the animal remains found in the older rocks differed the most radically from the existing species, and also that the organic remains found in northern portions of the globe corresponded more nearly to existing tropical species than did those now living in the ‘same localities. Further than this, he announced that different species, genera, and families of animals began their existence at very different epochs in the earth’s history, and that the same species rarely extended over from one formation into another. Notwithstanding this, though giving lists of fossils found in rocks of various horizons, he madé no attempt to determine their relative ages by means of them and regarded correlation by such aids as impossible. Following Phillips and Lyell in many of his statements, he yet announced as a principle that ** Rocks agreeing in their fossil contents may not have been contemporaneous in their deposition,” although they might not differ greatly in age. ‘*From all that has been advanced,” he wrote, ‘‘it appears that an identity of organic remains is not alone suflicient to prove a complete chronological identity of the rocks widely separated from each other; but it will show an approximate identity as to the period of their deposition, and in regard to rocks in a limited district it will show complete identity.” Where both the mineral nature and the character of fossils were identical, identity or synchronism would be much more probable, but a want of such agreement, so far as it related to mineral character, was not regarded as fatal to the idea of synchronism.
He argued against the idea that the stratified primary rocks are merely the detrital or fossiliferous rocks altered by heat, but regarded them rather as products of both mechanical and chemical action by aqueous and igneous agencies when the temperature of the crust was very high and before organic beings could live upon it.
He noted that the dolomitic rocks seemed genetically related to the limestones, but his ideas as to the methods by which the changes had been brought about were naturally somewhat crude when considered in the light of to-day. From a study of the field relations of the dolomites of Berkshire County and other localities he came to the conclusion ‘*‘ that all the cases of dolomitization in Massacbusetts occur either in the vicinity of a fault, or of unstratified rocks, or in the midst of gneiss, where the evidences of the powerful action of heat in the induration of the limestone and the obliteration of its stratification is

<<<Page: 358>>>

as great as results from the presence of unstratified rocks.” The actual dolomitization he thought to have been ‘* probably produced by gaseous sublimations, chiefly of carbonate of magnesia, which penetrated the rock after it had been softened by heat so as to be permeable.“ In some instances, however, he thought it highly probable that magnesian limestone had been deposited directly from thermal waters.
In seeking an explanation of the fact that in passing from the top of Hoosac Mountain toward the Hudson River one continually meets newer and newer rocks which always appear to pass under the older— in other words, that there is inversion of the strata—he came to the conclusion, put forward with some hesitation, ‘‘that these rocks have actually been thrown over into an inverted position, or rather, have been so contorted by a force acting laterally that one or more folded axes have been produced.”
The same feature had been mentioned in his report for 1835, but Es then appeared *‘‘ too improbable to be admitted.” His views on the subject Le COLE E gOS were illustrated by a i @ LST kL t-~ sketch, copied amine aethe portion above the heavy continuous black line being conceived to have been removed by erosion. Later this observation was claimed to be the first recognition of the true character of overturned folds. This was, however, disputed by H. D. Rogers, who claimed to have made and published similar observations during the progress of the New Jersey survey in 1838-39.
Below is the paragraph upon which the claim of Rogers was apparently based. The statement is made in the course of a description of the various axes of elevation that have given rise to the more prominent physical features of northern New Jersey.
Cneiss.
M Fic. 22.—Folded axes. (After E. Hitchcock.)
The movement which elevated Jenny Jump, seems to have been everywhere one of excessive suddenness and violence, as the strata along its anticlinal axis are not only frequently much dislocated and broken, but those lying immediately along its northwestern base are in several places thrown into an inverted posture, dipping not to the northwest, but in toward the base of the hill.?
«This is probably a reflection of views earlier put forward by Von Buch with reference to the dolomites of the Tyrol. b Geology of New Jersey, 1840, p. 59.

<<<Page: 359>>>

The idea was, however, brought out much more clearly in a communication made by him before the Association of American Geologists and Naturalists in 1841, an abstract of which was given in their Proceedings and in the American Journal of Science for the same year. He then called attention to the ‘‘inverted dip” observable among the rocks of the Coal Measures (of Pennsylvania) and ascribed the same toa great force acting laterally, folding and crushing the axis so as to produce this inverted dip by tossing the strata many degrees beyond the perpendicular, thus producing the present apparent dip of the lower stratified or sedimentary rocks beneath the primary.
In view of the observations made by Eaton in 1820, Steel, in 1825, and W. B. Rogers, in Virginia, in 1838, as noted elsewhere, the sub-
ject of priority between the two first named is scarcely worth discussing.
Heavy demands have from a very early time been made upon electric currents to account for all sorts of geological phenomena, from the formation of ore deposits to the production of slaty cleavage, or even the uplifting of mountain ranges. It is not strange, therefore, that Doctor Hitchcock should have felt justified in making slight draft upon it to help him over some of his minor difficulties. The peculiar imitative and otherwise interesting forms assumed by the ferruginous concretions found in the Connecticut Valley demanded an explanation. ‘*I know of no agent,” he wrote,.‘‘that could have accomplished this (i. e., the separation of the iron from the menstruum which held it in solution) except galvanic electricity,” and again, ‘*I strongly suspect galvanism to have been a chief agent in concretions of every sort.”
In the report of 1833, and again in those of 1835 and 1841, Hitchcock called attention to the peculiarly flattened and otherwise distorted pebbles in the conglomerate at what is locally known as Purgatory, near Newport, Rhode Island. His description is important in view of his subsequent writings and the discussions which arose in connection therewith. The subject may, however, well go over until his later paper of 1861 (see p. 510).
This final report, coming at the time it did, naturally attracted much attention and favorable comment. From a brief preliminary review in the American Journal of Science the following paragraph is selected:
If we reflect that the vast mass of facts and information of various descriptions, and the reasonings and inferences contained in these columns, are all the result of untiring, nay, almost Herculean, efforts of an individual mind, continued among the harassments of constant professional duty during a period of ten years, we are encouraged to hope that we may yet see the day when the united efforts of our small army of working geologists now laboring in the common cause shall reduce the whole of our widespread territory to an intelligible perfect system.
Although our sketches have thus far been confined largely to Americans, either by birth or adoption, the times with which we are

<<<Page: 360>>>

now dealing will scarcely permit us to overlook the explorations of Jean N. Nicollet throughout the Middle West. Nicollet was born in France in 1790 and came to Sketnot America in 1832 from purely financial considerations, having involved not merely his own fortune but those of friends in unfortunate speculations. His main scientific work up to this date had been of an astronomical nature, and it is perhaps ie natural that bis attention ina new country should have Workin. turned toward exploration and map making.
From 1833 to 1838 he was engaged, with the cooperation of the War Department, though without financial assistance, in mapping the region of the upper Mississippi. From 1838 to 1841 he was in the employ of the Government, completing the surveys and maps thus begun. Other work of like nature was projected, but before plans were matured his health gave way and he died in 1843. His geological work, under the conditions mentioned above, was therefore of comparatively slight importance, excepting as calling attention to regions as yet but little explored.
‘He claimed to have traced the Cliff limestone of Owen over a vast extent of country in the Mississippi Valley, and connecting his own work with that of Owen, Locke, H. King, and others, felt justified in assigning the Falls of St. Anthony as the northern limit of the formation. In this he was correct. He added to the knowledge of the geology of the region of the Sioux and Missouri rivers by bringing in important Cretaceous fossils, both vertebrate and invertebrate in their nature; described the occurrence of the Indian pipestone (Catlinite) of the Coteau des Prairies of Minnesota, and correctly described the pseudovolcanoes and their pumice-like product as due to burning lignite beds.
The second American edition of Bakewell’s Geology, from the fourth London edition, was printed, as was the first, in New Haven and under Silliman’s supervision. The work needs notice here, as it Pe es shows Silliman’s gradually expanding views and disSU eel position to shake off the shackles of tradition, though
still floundering in the deep waters of the Noachian deluge. Of particular interest are his remarks on the nature of geological evidence and its consistency with sacred history.
Silliman took the ground that there was no reason to believe that any part of the crust of the earth is now in the same condition as first created, every portion having been worked over in accordance with. physical laws which are as much the Creator’s work as are the materials upon which they operate. Unlike some of his predecessors and contemporaries, he did not, however, at this time feel it incumbent upon him to close his eyes to, or even to distort, any evidence that might present itself in order that it might not conflict with the state

<<<Page: 361>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830-1839. ole
ment of sacred history. ‘‘Any attempt to disprove the truth or genuineness of the Pentateuch, and Genesis in particular, is wholly superfluous, and quite aside from any question that can in this age be at issue between geologists.” ‘*No geologist at the present day erects any system upon the basis of the scripture history.” But admitting that the Mosaic history is genuine and true, he felt that one might with historical and philosophical propriety compare geology with history and regard historical coincidence with observed phenomena as interesting, *‘ because they are mutually adjuvant and confirmatory.” As with other workers, including even some of the present time, he found most that is confirmatory in a study of the drift or ‘‘diluvial,” which was naturally ascribed to torrential action, and perhaps concomitant with the universal deluge recorded in Genesis. After a somewhat prolonged discussion of the meaning of the term ‘‘ days,” as used in Genesis, he gave the following:
Table of coincidences between the order of events as described in Genesis and that unfolded
by geological investigations.
In Genesis. No. | Discovered by geology.
Gen. I. 1, 2. Inthe beginning 1 | It is impossible to deny that the waters of the
God created the heavens and | sea have formerly, and for a long time, coythe earth. And the earth ered those masses of matter which now conwas without form and yoid; | stitute our highest mountains;
and darkness was upon the face of the deep; and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
3,4, 5. Creation of light. 2 and, 6,7,8. Creation of the expanfurther, that these waters, during a long time, sion or atmosphere. did not support any living bodies.—Cuvier’s 8) 7 eee of the dry | Theory of the Earth, sect. 7. and. |
11, 12,13. Creation of shooting | 3 | 1. Cryptogamous plants in the coal strata.— plauts, and of seed-bearing Many observers. herbs and trees. 2. Species of the most perfect developed class, | the Dicotyledonous, already appear in the | period of the secondary formations, and | the first traces of them can be shown in the oldest strata of the secondary formation; while they uninterruptedly increase in the successive formations.—Prof. Jameson’s remarks on the Ancient Flora of the Earth.
14 to 19. Sun, moon, and stars > made to be for signs and for seasons, and for days, and for years. |

<<<Page: 362>>>

Table of coincidences between the order of events as described in Genesis and that unfolded by geological investigations—Continued.
In Genesis. No. | Discovered by geology.
20. Creation of the inhabitants | +4 Shells in Alpine and Jura limestone.—Humof the waters. | boldt’s tables.
Fish in Jura limestone.—Humboldt’s tables. Teeth and scales of fish in Tilgate sandstone.—
| Mr. Mantell.
Creation of flying things. 5 | Bones of birds in Tilgate sandstone. —Mr. Mantell, Geological Transactions, 1826.
Elytra“@ of winged insects in calcareous slate, at Stonesfield.—Mr. Mantell.
21. The creation of great rep| 6 | It will be impossible not to acknowledge as a tiles. certain truth the number, the largeness, and the variety of the reptiles which inhabited the seas or the land at the epoch in which the strata of Jura were deposited.—Cuvier’s Ossem. Foss.
There was a period when the earth was peopled by oviparous quadrupeds of the most appalling magnitude. Reptiles were the lords of creation.—Mr. Mantell.
24, 25. Creation of the mamBones of mammiferous land quadrupeds, found
malia. only when we come up to the formations above the coarse limestone, which is above the chalk. ’—Cuvier’s Theory, sect. 20.
2622 Creation ofmans sess. 8 | No human remains among extraneous fossils.—Cuvier’s Theory, sect. 32.
But founa covered with mud in caves of Bize.—Journal.
Genesis, VII. ThefloodofNoah, | 9 | The crust of the globe has been subjected to a
4,200 years ago. great and sudden revolution, which can not be dated much farther back than five or six thousand years ago.—Cuvier’s Theory, 32, 33, 34, 35, and Buckland’s Reliq. Diluv.
aSheaths.
b One solitary exception is since discovered, in the calcareous slate of Stonesfield, in the bones of a didelphis, an opossum, a tribe whose position may be held intermediate between the oyiparous and mammiferous races.
Perhaps that part of Professor Silliman’s work which showed the keenest insight into geological problems is that relating to the subject of crystallization in rocks. The proximate causes of the phenomenon were recognized as heat and solution.
There is no doubt that fire and water * * * have operated in all ages in producing mineral crystallization. Of these, however, fire appears to have been by far
the most active, * * * and there is every reason to admit that even granite has been melted in the bowels of the earth, and therefore may crystallize from a state of

<<<Page: 363>>>

igneous fusion. If this be true of the proper crystals of granite it may be also true of the imbedded crystals which it contains, and therefore of all other crystals. Those which contain much water of crystallization may present a serious difficulty, but perhaps pressure may haye retained the water, and as the parts of the mineral concreted in cooling the molecules of water may have taken their place in the regular solid. Still we can see no reason for excluding water and other dissolving agents, acting with intense energy under vast pressure and at the heat of even high ignition, from playing a very important part in crystallization. (Pp. 433-434. )
This, it will be observed, is essentially the aqueo-igneous theory of eruptive rocks, and could scarcely be improved on to-day. In this connection it is well to remember that Edward Hitchcock, in his Geology of Massachusetts, 1833 (see p. 309), inferred the igneous origin of granite from its crystalline structure, ‘‘ since substances held in solution always crystallize in succession, while in granite we have a solid crystalline mass of three or four distinct substances which evidently crystallized contemporaneously.”
The tendency to generalize on insufficient data is evidently inherent in the human race, and it was to be expected that it should early make its appearance in so promising a field for speculation as geology. It
Beaten Notiads was therefore not surprising that Eaton, after his
Rocky Meuntains, Many years of study in the eastern United States, ASS should have ventured opinions concerning the little-
known West. Basing his statements on observations made by a Mr. John Ball, at one time a student of his, he wrote in 1834:
The geology of the country west of the Rocky Mountains is remarkably simple and uniform. The general underlying rock is the red sandstone, which some English geologists call Saliferous rock, and which characterizes the red sandstone group of De La Beche. It is the same which contains the salt springs of the western part of the State of New York, and which underlies the basaltic rocks (greenstone trap) of Connecticut and Hudson rivers. * * * Wherefore the geology of the east and west sides of the Rocky Mountains is remarkably alike. Mr. Ball says the Rocky Mountains rises up from the midst, as it were, of a horizontal sea of red sandstone, as if some tremendous force had driven it upward, like an island forced up from the depths of the ocean. * * * Mr. Ball considers almost the whole country as volcanic * * * near the west side of the Rocky Mountains. * * * Mr. Ball found first graywacke and sparry lime rock. But he soon entered upon the red sandstone region, which continues as the basis rock to the Pacific. * * * The country is often very mountainous along the route to the Pacific, but the mountains are red sandstone, grey pudding stone, or basalt. Such is the simplicity and uniformity of the geology of the vast region west of the Rocky Mountains that it can all be told in one sentence of six lines.
It may be well to add that Mr. Ball himself took exception to some of the conclusions drawn by Professor Eaton, and later published in the same journal his own views on the subject. These may, however, be passed over here without comment.

<<<Page: 364>>>

The two most important original contributions of the year 1833 were Hitchcock’s Massachusetts, already noted, and Isaac Lea’s Contributions to Geology, the latter dealing w ith the Tertiary of Alabama,
R Maryland, and New Jersey. In Lea’s work there were teticloer tase «brought prominently forward for the first time, by an American writer, the striking changes that had taken place in the introduction of the Tertiary fauna and the close relationship amie between that fauna and the fauna of the present day. Out of some two hundred and fifty species of invertebrates found by Doctor Lea in the bluffs at Claiborne, Alabama, two hundred and nineteen were not referable to any known species, i. e., were not found in any of the beds older than Tertiary and were new to science. It was in this work also that the undoubted presence in America of heds referable to the Eocene of Lyell was recognized, although the character of the fossils and the general position of the beds had been already noted by Conrad ; (p.-307).% Tenn oes veieariea: The last named, the year following, marked out the distribution of the Eocene in Maryland and noted the occurrence of Pliocene fossils overlying it at Vance’s ferry on the Santee River. The Fort Washington beds, formerly Pas Aa eas regarded by him as Eocene, he now suggested to be Distribution of the more recent than Lea’s Claiborne beds, and perhaps 5 contemporaneous with the Miocene of Europe.
In 1834 there was organized the Geological Society of Pennsylvania.
According to its constitution:
The objects of the society are declared to be to ascertain as far as possible the nature and structure of the rock formations of the State; their connection or comparison with the other formations in the United States and of the
Organization of the Geolorical Society of rest of the world; the fossils they contain, their nature, positions, ene Vanes So satand associations, and particularly the uses to which they can be applied in the arts, and their subserviency to the comforts and conveniences of man.
This society continued in existence but four years, but served its apparent purpose in bringing about the establishment, in 1836, of the State geological survey with H. D. Rogers at its head. A single
“This publication of Lea’s led to a misunderstanding with Conrad, or rather with Conrad’s friends, Say and Morton, who felt that Doctor Lea was invading Conrad’s rights. Doctor Lea, however, worked only on material he had received from Judge Tait, prior to Conrad’s entry upon the field. (See Dall’s Determination of Dates of Publication of Conrad’s Fossils of the Tertiary Formations, Bulletin of the Philosophical Society of Washington, XII, 1893, pp. 215-240. )

<<<Page: 365>>>

volume, in two parts, of ‘* Transactions,” numbering upward of 400 pages, tells the story of its brief existence. This contains papers by authors now for the most part little known. R. C. Taylor wrote on fucoids and the coal fields of Pennsylvania gnd Virginia, his papers being accompanied. by numerous sections; James Dickson had an Essay on the Gold Region of the United States, all comprised within the limits of 16 pages; Jacob Green had a paper on a Sulphated Ferruginous Earth, and a Description of a New Trilobite from Nova Scotia. Others were by Richard Harlan, Gerard Troost, Thomas Clemsen, and H. Koehler. Few of the writers or active members achieved other reputation than that given by the single publication, though Taylor became an authority on coal, while Harlan and Troost became later widely known, the one as a vertebrate paleontologist and the other as a geologist. This society, it is well to note, was the second geological society to be organized in America, the first being that at New Haven in 1819.
A brief paper by William Aiken, professor of natural philosophy and chemistry in Mount St. Mary’s College, Maryland, published in the American Journal of Science at this time, is worthy of some conee ee ee sideration as bearing upon the prevailing theories irae On: Mountain regarding mountain uplift and incidental phenomena.
Professor Aiken wrote on the geology of the country between Baltimore and the Ohio River, and gave a section showing the inclination and kinds of rocks.
The classification conformed with that prevailing at the time, the rocks being divided into (1) a primitive series in the immediate vicinity of Baltimore, (2) the transition slates, sandstones, and conglomerates of the adjacent county, and (3) the lower secondary rocks of the West.
Noting the reversal of the dip existing between Hancock and Cumberland, he wrote: ‘* Beneath this space, then, we are authorized, in concluding, the eruptive power that was instrumental in upheaving the Appalachian chain was most energetically exerted. This may be considered the true anticlinal region.” He regarded the agent so efficient in throwing up mountain chains as igneous, ‘‘an opinion that gains confirmation, if any is needed, from the occurrence of thermal waters along the center line of the Allegheny region.” It is apparent from this that he agreed with Daubeny and other European geologists as to the voleanic origin of these springs. Roger’s paper, ascribing them to the other causes, did not appear until eight years later (see page 372.)
In accordance with a resolution passed by the general assembly of Sea Maryland, February 25, 1834, J. T. Ducatel, geologist, Alexander’s Survey and J. H. Alexander, a civil engineer, were appointed of Maryland, 1834. : q 1
to make a geological survey and new map of the State. This survey continued in existence until 1840, during which time three annual reports, one on the outlines and physical geography of
NAT Mus 1904 Za

<<<Page: 366>>>

Maryland, one on the new map of Maryland, and one on the Frostburg coal formation, were issued, the latter, however, not being an official publication.
The geological reports were given up largely to a discussion of economic matters, such as the character of the soil and the occurrence of coal and ores of the metals. In the report for 1833 the occurrence of fossiliferous deposits in Prince George County; at Maryland Point, in Charles County; and on St. Mary’s River, in St. Mary’s County; also at Fort Washington on the Potomac, were noted, but none of the fossils were identified nor any suggestion made as to their probable geological age, although that portion of Maryland was later referred to as being occupied by Tertiary rocks. The rocks comprising the upper part of Cecil County, the greater portion of Baltimore and Harford counties, the upper districts of Anne Arundel County, and the whole of Montgomery County, were thought to be generally metalliferous and were grouped as primary or primitive. The serpentinous rocks were looked upon as of importance, as likely to furnish the basis for the manufacture of epsom salts, a not uncommon opinion at that time. On the map prepared under the direction of Mr. Alexander the lithological nature of the underlying rocks and the character of the soil were indicated by names, no attempt being made at coloring.
In 1835 Ducatel visited the Eastern Shore of Maryland and in his report for that year gave a very full account of the geography and agricultural condition of Dorchester, Somerset, and Worcester counties. He announced the presence there of considerable deposits of @reensand marl, which he believed would be of great value to the agriculturist. In 1836 he completed the geological survey of Calvert County and made extensive examinations in Anne Arundel, Prince George, Charles, and St. Mary’s counties, where he found further deposits of marl. In this same year he examined the coal and iron deposits of Allegany County and published a geological account and section of the beds.
In his report for 1838 he gave a general account of the mineral resources of Harford County and outlines of the geology of Harford and Baltimore counties, with a short treatise on the subject of lime burning.
This survey was regarded by Ducatel as being the first attempt to connect a topographic and geological survey.
Ducatel was born in Baltimore, where his father, a Frenchman, conducted for many years a prominent pharmaceutical establishment. He received his early training at St. Mary’s College in Baltimore,
subsequently studying in Paris. In 1824 he returned Sketch of Ducatel. to America, and shortly after entered upon a very
successful career as a teacher of the sciences—chemistry, philosophy, mineralogy, and geology—serving in the Mechanic’s Institute and the University of Maryland in Baltimore, and St. John’s College in Annapolis.

<<<Page: 367>>>

In order that he might devote himself more fully to the work of the survey, he severed his connection with the institutions of learning about 1838. The move, however, proved an unfortunate one, as the survey: was shortlived and he was thrown back upon his own resources.
In 1846 he visited, in the capacity of a geological expert, the Lake Superior mining regions. Through exposure while there he contracted a severe illness, which left him in an enfeebled condition from which he never fully recovered... He died from congestion of the lungs in 1849. ~ Dueatel is represented to us as a man of generous traits and of winning character, ardent and enterprising. Physically he was short in stature, with square shoulders, black g eyes, dark complexion, and face strongly Fie. 24.—Julius Timoleon Ducatel. pitted by smallpox. He bent forward and walked with a nervous, energetic step, which betokened the ceaseless activity of one accustomed to work and think for himself.
Few publications bear his name, though as a writer for the journals of the day he is said to have been quite prolific. His principal work
vas a Manual of Toxicology, which, it is stated, was well received.
In July, 1834, G. W. Featherstonhaugh, who was introduced to the reader on page 301, was authorized by Lieut. Col. J. J“ Abert, acting under instructions of the War Department, to make a geological and
mineralogical survey of the ‘*elevated country lying re eis between the Missouri River and Red River, known
under the designation of the Ozark Mountains.”” The survey was duly made and a report rendered bearing the date of February 17, 1835. This comprised altogether 97 pages, the first 42 of which were given up mainly to a discussion of general principles not germane to the report at all, but which, as indicating the condition of mind of the writer, are worthy of consideration. He regarded the continents and islands as having originated through an expansive subterranean force, and believed the mineral veins to have been filled from below, rather than from above, as taught by Werner.
Granite was regarded as an igneous rock, and designated as ‘‘ignigenous.” Gneiss he recognized as often passing into granite, while some of the primary limestones he thought to have possibly ‘*come from central parts of the earth, in a state of aqueous solution, and to have subsequently received their high crystalline character from being in contact with ignigenous rocks in an incandescent state.” To the com-
«This appears to have been the first formal recognition of the science of geology by the General Government.

<<<Page: 368>>>

monly received opinion, that all coal resulted from vegetable matter, he took exception, and thought that some beds **may have been the result of outpourings of bituminous matter.” The wide geographical distribution of Carboniferous rocks west of the Appalachians and in the Mississippi Valley was noted, and a section given comprising 1,520 vertical feet of these rocks and overlying shale and millstone grit, at Burkesville, Kentucky. .
Passing to the specific part of the work, Featherstonhaugh discussed the occurrence of the lead ore (galena), its distribution in loose pieces in the soil, and its relation to the vein material in the solid rock, but the fact that this superficial layer was but the detritus from the decomposition of the underlying rock does not seem to have been realized more than by his predecessors. He remarked, however, that the disseminated granules in the limestone, as at Isle La Motte, furnished to the eye *‘ sufficient proof that the stony and metallic matter were deposited at the same time,” an idea not altogether different from that held to-day. Further on he noted the occurrence of the ore in pockets or cavities filled with red clay as pointing ‘‘to a projection of this metallic or mineral matter from below.”
He described the hematite deposit of Pilot Knob, Missouri, and correctly noted the improbability of finding precious metals in Arkansas in paving quantities. Magnet Cove he regarded as having been perhaps ‘‘one of those extremely ancient craters that may have preceded those of which basalt and lava are the products.”
Although Featherstonhaugh’s standing with his fellow-geologists does not seem to have been the best, some of his recorded observations certainly show a more philosophical mind and greater ability to grasp the broader problems of geology than do those of many of his contemporaries. Thus, discussing the muddy character of the Mississippi, he suggested that experiments might be conducted to show the amount of sediment annually brought down, whereby we might approximately assign a chronological period for the origin of the river, the commencement of the alluvial deposits, and the withdrawal of the ocean. This, so far as the present writer is aware, is the first suggestion of its kind to be made.
Commenting on the fact announced by him in 1828 and since confirmed, that, with the exception of the Tertiary and sub-Cretaceous beds of the coast, no rocks more recent than the coal-bearing series had been found in the United States, he suggested that the American continent might in reality be older than the European. This also is the first suggestion of its kind to be found in our literature.
The report was accompanied by a colored geological section extending from the Atlantic at New Jersey to the Red River in Texas. On this all New Jersey and Delaware as far as Chesapeake Bay were colored as occupied by superficial sand and sub-Cretaceous beds; Mary

<<<Page: 369>>>

land to the west of the Potomac mainly by primary granites, @neiss, and slate, with a narrow band of transition limestone; Virginia by transition limestone overlaid in part by graywacke; Tennessee by eraywacke overlaid at the Cumberland Mountains by Carboniferous limestone; Kentucky, Indiana, and Illinois by Carboniferous limestone; Missouri and Arkansas by Carboniferous limestone capped by calcareosiliceous hills, and Arkansas, from a point about midway between the Fourche and Arkansas rivers, by graywacke capped by Old Red sandstone and occasional Tertiary deposits, with sub-Cretaceous beds beginning again at the Caddo River and extending nearly to the Red River in Texas, where they were covered by a ferruginous sandstone. It was a reprint of this section in the Transactions of the Geological Society of Pennsylvania that Lesley referred to in his Historical Sketch of Geological Explorations as ‘‘a rambling description and a worthless geological section across the continent from New York to Texas.”
In 1835 Featherstonhaugh, again under instructions from LieutenantColonel Abert, made a geological reconnaissance of the region lying between the seat of government and the Coteau des Prairies, by way of Green Bay and the Wisconsin Territory. His report, issued in 1836, formed Senate Document No. 333, comprising 168 pages, with 4 plates of sections and diagrams. In this, as in his first, there is a large amount of preliminary matter of a very general nature. He noted that Washington and Georgetown were underlaid by gneiss, in which were perceived evidences of an ‘‘extensive anticlinal movement by which all the rocks along the entire length of the Potomac,” as high up as the great bituminous field, had been affected, and that the true dip of the rocks was often ‘* contradicted by the cleavage.” This was a by no means unimportant observation. The erosive action of the river, as manifested by potholes in the schists at Great Falls, was dwelt upon and the Seneca sandstone and Potomac breccia described, the former noted as often carrying anthracite and casts of calamites, but no suggestion as to the geological age of the beds was given. The Catoctin Mountains were described as ‘‘composed of primary slates, sandstones, and quartz having a northeast direction.” Referring to the relationship existing between the Potomac breccia and the limestones, slates, and shales, he wrote:
We thus have all the proofs that the Atlantic primary chain has come up from below through the limestone, triturating and breaking it up into fragments of every size, which were subsequently transported to the east of the chain by a current from the west, and deposited there, intermixed with the decomposed red shale.
He concluded, therefore, that the Atlantic primary chain was elevated posterior to the deposition of the limestone, ** which may be considered the equivalent of the lowest beds of Mr. Murchison’s Silurian rocks.” The unsymmetrical character of the folded sandstones and grits at Wills Creek, in Maryland, he described as affording

<<<Page: 370>>>

evidence ‘‘that all the beds had been bent up by some action from below, and that from some inequality in the action or from some external cause the bed on which they lay, together with its associated strata, had collapsed toward the center in such a manner that they would appear to have been thrown up into a vertical position, if the uncurvated part had been conceafed.”
In remarking on the constancy of the phenomena connected with the anticlinal arrangement of the whole series of Allegheny ridges, he ascribed their origin to an elevatory undulating movement, whereby ‘*some parts of the strata were forced up into the anticlinal form, in a constant magnetic direction,” the intervening distance between each axis or ridge being at the same time probably thrown down in a ruinous state. As the land arose and the waters retired the ruins would gradually be borne away, leaving the valleys as we now find them.
The extensive bituminous coal beds of Maryland and Pennsylvania were described, the coal itself considered as due to plant growth in situ, and not to drift.
The presence of Carboniferous limestone about 8 miles from Navarino, Wisconsin, was noted and also, but erroneously, at the Falls of St. Anthony, in Minnesota. The lead-bearing beds of Dubuque, Iowa, were also judged, by their fossils, to be Carboniferous. In this, also, he was in error.
In 1835 there was organized under the authority of the legislature of New Jersey a State geological survey,of which Prof. H. D. Rogers was made chief. The survey continued until 1839, the final report, a
volume of some 300 pages and a colored geological Reeeteeser is3s, map, bearing the date 1840, the first annual report
being issued in 1836. In this final report Rogers areued that nearly the whole surface of the region occupied by the counties of Middlesex, Monmouth, Burlington, Gloucester, Salem, and Cape May was at some former period upon a level with the top of the surrounding hills, as shown by the finding of sandstone strata always at about the same elevation and in the horizontal position in which it was deposited. These hills he regarded as hills of denudation, that is to say, as formed by the washing away or laying naked of the strata which formed the surface of the region about them; but, looking at the matter, as he did, through the eyes of a catastrophist, he was unable to say ‘‘from what quarter the mighty rush of waters proceeded which swept off so extensive a part of the upper rocks.”
In view of the great difference of opinion which has existed and still exists in the minds of geologists regarding the age of the white limestone near Franklin Furnace, New Jersey, it is not without interest to note that Rogers himself regarded it as having been originally the blue limestone of the district invaded at some period by mineral veins

<<<Page: 371>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830—1839. it ina highly heated or molten state, whereby was effected a series of changes similar to those Known to be caused by: injections of trap into similar strata.
In his final report Rogers divided the rock formations of the northern division of the State into, first, a group of primary rocks confined to the islands and the vicinity of Trenton; second, a group of older secondary strata confined to the northwestern portions of Sussex and Warren counties, and third, a group of middle secondary strata lying in the broad belt of country between the southeastern foot of the Highlands and the boundary connecting Trenton and New Brunswick. With this third group he also connected the trap rocks of the region.
The occurrence of graphite in the altered rocks near Sparta, remote _from igneous dikes, and its nonoccurrence in more than very trivial quantities adjacent to the dikes, he looked upon as strongly implying that it had been derived ‘* from the elements of the blue limestone itself, which may easily be proved to contain an adequate quantity of iron and carbon for the production of this mineral.”
The great thickness throughout which this limestone had undergone crystallization, apparently from the heating agency of the dikes which traversed it, and the law which he traced in the development of some of the minerals, afforded, as he felt, unquestionably strong support to the theory that gneiss and other primary strata had once been sedimentary rocks, converted by an intense and widespread igneous action into a universally crystalline state.
The presence of carbonate of copper diffused throughout the fissures of the shales indicated to his mind that a considerable portion of the metalliferous material, particularly the carbonate, had entered the strata ina gaseous or volatile condition and not in that of igneous fusion. The iron and zinc deposits, on the other hand, were ‘‘unequivocally genuine lodes or veins” filled with ‘* matter injected while in a fused or molten state” and not beds formed contemporaneously with the surrounding rock.
It may be recalled that in 1820 Professor Bakewell visited the Falls of Niagara, and on his return to England published in the London Magazine a short memoir, in which he endeavored to show that the eet jaf falls were once at Queenstown. In the autumn of 1846 fue Gorge at he again visited the falls and made the additional
observation that the river at one time probably flowed through the ancient gravel-filled valley extending from the Whirlpool to St. Davids. In this subsequent research has shown he was eminently correct. Nevertheless, his observations at the time were not wholly accepted.
In 1834 a Mr. Fairholme, writing in the London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine, accepted Bakewell’s views as expressed in

<<<Page: 372>>>

1820 and put forward certain of his own relating to the rate of backcutting of the falls. To these views H. D. Rogers, in the American Journal of Science for 1835, took serious exception. He believed that the channel below the falls had been formed in part as a diluvial valley and by some far-sweeping currents which denuded the entire surface of North America and strewed its plains and mountains with bowlders, gravel, and soil from the north. ‘*The passage of such a body of water over the surface would deeply indent all the exposed portions of the land. Rushing in a descent from Lake Erie to Lake Ontario, from a higher toa lower plain, and across a slope like that at Queenstown, it would inevitably leave a long ravine.” Commenting on this, Silliman remarked in the same journal that an earthquake might possibly be instrumental in producing at once such a crack in the strata as would drain the lakes ina few days or hours, and to.such an agency might be ascribed the channel in question. (See Hall’s paper, p. 384.)
Rogers was born in Philadelphia in 1808, being one of four brothers— James B., William B., Henry D., and Robert Empie to distinction as geologists or chemists. When not quite twenty-two
years of age he became professor of chemistry and Dostana natural philosophy in Dickinson College, resigning in
1831 for the purpose of going to Europe to complete his studies. He returned to Philadelphia in 1833, and in the ensuing winter delivered courses of lectures on chemistry in the hall of Franklin Institute.
In 1835 he was elected professor of geology and mineralogy in the University of Pennsylvania, and was also appointed by the legislature in the same year to make a geological survey of the State of New Jersey, as already mentioned. In 1836 he was made State geologist of Pennsylvania, and it is upon the work done in this connection that his fame as a geologist chiefly rests.
In 1857 he was made regius professor of natural history in the University of Glasgow, being the first American to thus receive a foreign appointment. As was the case with his brother, W. B. Rogers, he was a good lecturer, with quiet, gentlemanly bearing, never failing to make a favorable impression upon his audience.
His work in Pennsylvania showed not merely great administrative ability, but also the power of mastering fully the observations of his assistants, making therefrom important generalizations. He was unquestionably the leading structural geologist of his time. That his generalizations and the theories he deduced will not in all cases hold to-day in no way reflects upon his ability. In judging his work, as, indeed, judging that of any of his predecessors and contemporaries, one must take into consideration not merely the condition of knowledge at the time, but also the conditions under which they worked.

<<<Page: 373>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 14.
State Geologist of Pennsylvania.

<<<Page: 374>>>



<<<Page: 375>>>

One of the most unique figures in early American geoloey was that of Dr. James G. Percival. This man was born at Kensington, Connecticut, September 15, 1795, and graduated at Yale College in L815,
RB Go pets after which he studied medicine, receiving the degree
Survey of POM ] 2) « NO . elie Cee nae: of M. D. in 1820, and entering upon a troubled and, 1835-1841. to his friends, troublesome career, which terminated
only with his death in 1856.
He wrote poems, became editor of a newspaper, was a proof reader and assistant to Noah Webster in the preparation of his dictionary, and received a Government appointment as surgeon at West Point and afterwards with the recruiting service at Boston. But no form of practical work seemed suited to his taste, and he gave up position after position that he might devote himself to literature.
Peevish, often morbid and misanthropic to the point of insanity, and always complaining, truly such is queer material from which to make a geologist. ‘‘Slender of form, of narrow chest and with a peculiar stoop, a large, fine head, dark eyes, and inclined to sharpness of features; a wardrobe consisting of little more than a single plain suit— brown or gray—which he wore summer and winter until it became threadbare. He never wore gloves nor blacked his boots.” Such is the picture held up to our view by his contemporaries.
A geological and mineralogical survey of Connecticut being organized in 1835, Percival was given charge of the geology and C. U. Shepard the mineralogy. Shepard’s report appeared in 1837. It comprised all told some 188 pages, but was not accompanied by a map, sections, nor by figures of any kind.
Percival’s report was long delayed, making its appearance finally in 1842. It would seem that the survey, when inaugurated, was expected to be but a superficial one, yet Percival was engaged upon it for five weary and laborious years, each year rendering his researches more minute, until he had collected over eight thousand specimens and made record of dips and bearings still more numerous. The legislators demanded a report, which was not forthcoming, and finally, in 1841, all appropriations were withheld and an abridged report published, much against Percival’s wishes. This volume is beyond question one of the least interesting of any issued by any State. A dry mass of lithological details, with little or no discrimination between important and unimportant matters—no theories nor generalities. No one for a moment will question that Percival had been, as he claimed,
Fig. 25.—James Gates Percival.

<<<Page: 376>>>

‘Jaborious and diligent,” yet the reader who searches from cover to cover for other facts than lithological characteristics, dip, and strike will search in vain. The fact that the trappean outbursts were not in straight and continuous lines, but curvilinear in form and occupying a séries of nearly parallel fissures, was practically the only break in the monotony of detail. He wrote to a friend:
I had twice surveyed the whole State on a regular plan of sections from east to west, reducing the intervals in the last survey to an average distance of 2 miles, thus passing along one side of each of the nearly 5,000 square miles of the State. * * * JT had examined all objects of geological interest, particularly the rocks and their included minerals, with minute attention. I had scarcely passed a ledge or point of rock without particular examination.
Peevish and complaining, Percival evidently could not be made to understand why he should not be allowed to go on indefinitely, rendering a report when he himself should be satisfied of its correctness. With such a disposition the average country legislator naturally had no patience, and the abridged report, a volume of 495 pages, with an uncolored map, was finally printed in 1842, as already noted.
Though written by a poet, it is utterly lacking in imagination, and, aside from its dullness, remarkable only from the fact that it is stated to have been written largely from memery. The subjects considered, in the order given, were: First, the rocks or consolidated formations;
-second, the loose or unconsolidated formations; third, the soils; fourth, economic results, and fifth, the physical geography. The rocks were all classed under three heads: First, the primary; second, the secondary, and third, traps, the distinctions made being on almost purely lithological grounds.
In 1853 Percival was employed by the American Mining Company in exploring the lead mines of Illinois and Wisconsin, and in 1854 was appointed State geologist of Wisconsin, as noted elsewhere. He died in L856.
In the American Journal of Science for 1836 8. P. Hildreth, later connected with the geological survey of Ohio, published what was, for its time, an important paper relative to the bituminous coal deposits of
Ohio and the general geology of the Ohio Valley. Workin One is36, Although Hildreth was inclined to indulge in specu-
lations founded upon scanty data, his paper is, nevertheless, important for the numerous sections of the coal strata and as illustrating the condition of knowledge at that ae relative to both coal and petroleum.
Hildreth was one of the first to recognize the enormous amount of subaerial erosion that had taken place throughout the region, and that the Ohio River had carved out its own channel. He felt, however, that in times past the precipitation had been much greater than at present, and the abrasion of the surface by rain and torrents much more rapid.

<<<Page: 377>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830-1839. aon
He thought to recognize in the Muskinguin Valley Tertiary and Carboniferous rocks with New Red sandstone on the extreme southern border, while on the Clear Fork of the Little Muskingum he noted the occurrence of a white limestone which he erroneously assigned to the Lias.
Considerable attention was given to the ** muriatiferous” rocks, and he noted the outcropping of a 5-foot bed of coal in the vicinity of the salt deposit as ‘‘evincing apparent design in Him who laid the foundations of the earth in the greater abundance of coal in those places where it would be the most useful,” i. e., in the evaporation of brine for making salt. The occurrence of petroleum springs on the Little Kanawha he thus describes:
By opening and loosening with a spade or sharpened stick, the gravel and sand * * * the oil rises to the surface of the water, with which the trench is partially filled. It is then skimmed off with a tin cup or some other suitable vessel, and put up in barrels for sale or domestic uses. In this way from 50 to 100 barrels are collected in a season, and much more could be gathered if demand required. In the adjacent hills is a thin bed of coal * * * but the source whence this petroleum flows must be deep in the earth, and the material which furnishes, vast in dimensions. The process is one of nature’s hidden mysteries, carried on in her secret laboratory, far beyond the reach, « and inaccessible to the curiosity of man.
The occurrence of gas springs he also noted, and one in the center of an open tract, ‘S given to the public by the liberality of Washington,” who ‘* viewed it as an interesting natural phenomenon which no parsimonious individual ought ever to appropriateto is own benefit.” is deseribed in some !7¢-26.—Samuel Prescott Hildreth. detail and the same reverential spirit. ‘* There appears to be no diminution in the amount of gas from its first discovery to the present time. The same Almighty and liberal hand, which furnished the perennial fountains with water, having also provided this gaseous spring with the means of an exhaustless supply.”
Hildreth’s supposed discovery of the Liassic age of the white limestone, noted above, was later disputed by John Banister Gibson, chief justice of the supreme court of Pennsylvania, who claimed the credit for himself. Both were, however, in error, as shown by subsequent investigation.
In 1836 there was organized the first geological survey of the State Reese a icciCal a Ohio, and W. W. Mather appointed chief geologist. Saevey af Ohio: The survey lasted two years, seeming to have fallen
through on account of local jealousies. ‘Two annual reports were issued, of 134 and 286 pages, respectively, both bearing date of 1838.

<<<Page: 378>>>

Mathers assistants were the S. P. Hildreth, just mentioned, who early resigned on account of ill health; J. P. Kirtland, Dr. John Locke, C. Briggs, jr., J. W. Foster, and Charles Whittlesey, the last named in charge of topographic work. Mather’s own work was largely of an economic character, and he showed here as in ‘his later work on the New York survey, a lack of discrimination or ability to judge of the comparative value of the different subjects with which he had to deal.
Hildreth’s report must be read with a certain amount of allowance, since his ill health and consequent resignation precluded him from making certain possible modifications of his earlier statements. He described the occurrence of New Red sandstone, Lias, Oolite, ete., overlying the coal, and dwelt toa considerable extent upon the possible value of the buhrstone and also upon the salt springs.
Locke’s report, comprising pages 201-286 in the second annual, was by far the most satisfactory, showing a much broader grasp of the general subject than that of any of his associates. He described the rocks below the coal formation as having evidently been deposited in the bed of a deep primitive ocean, though he failed to realize, or at least ignored, the value of the fossil remains in which the rocks abounded, his classification being wholly lithological. As pointed out by Orton, moreover, he failed to correlate the members of the series which he found with those of the same series elsewhere.
He noted the immense amount of drift material, and also the scratched and grooved surface of the underlying rock, describing it as ‘‘planished as if by the friction of some heavy body moving over it and marked by parallel grooves.” He regarded such as haying probably been formed by icebergs floating over the terrace and dragging gravel and bowlders frozen into their lower surface, In this he followed Hitchcock.
Briggs’s reports, comprising some seventy pages of the first and second annuals, contained nothing of more than very local interest. A section was given showing the relative position and thickness of the strata in the counties of Wood, Crawford, Athens, Hocking, and Tuscarawas, but no attempt was made to refer them to any particular geological horizon, nor was the value of fossils recognized at all. In fact, there was but the briefest allusion to fossils, excepting as curiosities. This seems the more remarkable, in the case of Locke as well, when we consider that these regions are peculiarly prolific in invertebrate remains and the very important rédle such have since been made to play.
To Foster was assigned the geology of Muskingum County and parts of Licking and Franklin counties. He classified the rocks of the various formations of these regions as Alluvium, Tertiary, Coal Measures, fine-grained sandstone, shale, and Mountain limestone, and noted the presence of remains of a mastodon and a casteroides in the alluvium.

<<<Page: 379>>>



<<<Page: 380>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill.
So Rae ee
Geol
tate Survey.
t of New York §
ogis

<<<Page: 381>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830—1839. aoe
Whittlesey’s results consisted of, first, a brief pamphlet of some eight pages, relative to the general topography of the State, and second, a report of seventy-one pages, in which he gave geological sections of the rocks from Cleveland to tie southeast corner of the Western Reserve, with miscellaneous notes on the order of the strata and on coal, limestone, iron ores, mineral springs, ete.
The general results of the survey may be summed up as follows: The principal formations, as indicated, beginning with the oldest, are first, the great limestone deposit (Silurian and Devonian) which was erroneously regarded as equivalent to the Mountain or Carboniferous limestone of Europe. This was found in Adams County, extending thence to the western portion of the State. It was felt by Locke as ‘not unreasonable to suppose that the particles composing it were once held in aqueous solution and subsequently deposited in tranquil waters along the bottom of the ocean. This may then have been consolidated by subterranean heat. Overlying this is a bed of shales (Upper Devonian) two or three hundred feet in thickness, black, fissile, and with a fetid odor. Next comes Waverly sandstone, the series being thus first named. Fourth, a conglomerate cropping out on the western border of the Coal Measures and varying in thickness from 80 to 100 feet. Fifth, a lower coal series, consisting of alternations of sandstone, shales, limestone, iron ores, and coals, some 300 feet in thickness. Sixth, buhrstone. Seventh, the upper coal series, made up of sandstones, shales, coal, iron ores, and limestones. Eighth, the Tertiary deposits, under which head he included the prairies or barrens-in the western part of the State, and the pebble beds and bowlders of primitive rocks so abundant in some parts of the Scioto Valley; and ninth, the recent deposits, including as such those now forming along the river beds. The beds were noted as having generally but a slight dip and irregular undulations. Locke found near the boundary of Ohio and Indiana a summit level and an anticlinal axis from which the strata dipped in opposite directions, eastwardly in Ohio and westwardly in Indiana. This is apparently the first recognition of what has since become known as the Cincinnati Uplift.
Mather was educated at West Point, and from 1829 to 1835 was assistant professor of chemistry, mineralogy, and geology in the Military Academy. While there he published (1833) a text-book on
geology, a miniature sixteen-mo. volume of some 150 Sketch of Mather. pages, which seems to have been tairly well received at the time and is stated to have passed through several editions.“ A photographic copy of one of the pages is given
«He also published in 1834 a 36-page pamphlet entitled a Sketch of the Geology and Mineralogy of New London and Windham counties, in Connecticut, the same being accompanied by a colored geological map.

<<<Page: 382>>>

below to show the general character of the work and the now seeming crudity of the illustrations.“
the strata appear to rest against the sides of the mountain masses; d being the mountain, andaa, bb, cc, similar
strata of rocks. 77, AS There is another instance in which the strata may not ter-
abc © ba minate at their outcrop, but appear again in the opposite hill, as a a, but bb, by its prolongation, would pass over the hill C. Where the strata are nearly horizontal similar strata
wie 3 arealmost always found on the opposite sides of 6a valley, as if they had been formerly cona
tinuous, and the valley since formed by some powerful cause.
There is another point in relation to stratification, (and it is also applicable to veins, in rocks that are not stratified,) that, from its practical importance in mining, should be well understood. The bed of coal, or vein of ore, ap-
= ears suddenly to termina? i
B ate. When this occurs,. the b bed may be found again, either above or below its original level. At its apparent termination, a fissure, or else a different kind of rock, occurs, generally in the form of a vein, ascc. Repeated observation has shown, that if, at the apparent termination, the rock cutting it off inclines towards you, so as to project over your head, the bed of coal, or other mineral, lies at a lower level on the other side of cc, as though the mass of strata on one side of the vein had slid down to a lower level. In the figure, @ a and 06 repre-
Does the same stratum ever appear on the opposite sides of vallies? When beds of coal terminate suddenly, can they be regained? and how? What has been observed of the positions of the beds of coal, in reference to the sloping’ of the vein or dyke?
Fic. 27,—Page from Mather’s Elements of Geology.
printed indorsement pasted on the inside of the front cover:
« A copy of this book, in the possession of the present writer, has the following
Dear Str: You ask my opinion of the Elements of Geology, for the use of schools,
by Wm. W. Mather.
I think that it is a judicious, correct, and perspicuous work—
containing, in a small compass, a solution of many of the most important facts and theoretical views in geology, and that it is well adapted to the object for which it
was written. Yours, respectfully,
Mr. Wm. Lester, Jr. New Haven, June 18, 1834.

<<<Page: 383>>>

Mather resigned his commission in 1836 and gave up his time wholly to science. He was for a short time professor of chemistry and mineralogy in the University of Louisiana, but in 1836 became connected: with the Ohio State survey, and afterward with those of New York and Kentucky, as mentioned elsewhere.
He is described as a large and robust man, with great capacity for physical and mental labor—a man ‘‘equable in his disposition and gentle in his manners, considerate of others and just in his judgment of them, modest, but manly and self-reliant and thoroughly versed in the branches of science to which he devoted bimself.”
With a view of directing the attention of the legislature to the important subject of a geological and agricultural survey of the State
of Georgia, the patriotic citizens of Burke and RichCotting’'s Work i mond counties in 1836, at their own individual expense,
directed Prot. John R. Cotting— to make a geological and agricultural survey of their respective counties. To examine all localities of limestone, marls, and all other minerals useful in agriculture and the arts. Also rocks that may be proper for the purpose of architecture, the construction of roads, railways, etc. To examine the water of springs and wells with regard to the salubrity or insalubrity of the same. To analyze the soils on different plantations in the two counties, with a view to their improvement. To illustrate the whole by drawings, diagrams, and a chart of the two counties, and to present a report of the same to his excellency the governor, in order that it may come properly before the two branches of the legislature should he deem the subject of sufficient importance.
In conformity with these instructions Cotting, in the latter part of March, began his survey, which was continued for eight months, the results appearing in the form of a duodecimo volume of 198 pages, unaccompanied by drawings or maps of any kind, since such could not be made within the State and the time assigned for publication would not permit of the original drawings being sent north.
The work was divided into three parts: (1) Topography, 2) « economic, and (3) scientific geology. The ideas advanced were naturally largely a reflection of those held by English and European authorities. The formations were divided into Tertiary, Secondary, Transition, and Primitive. Granite was recognized as an igneous rock, but it does not appear that the fact of its deep-seated origin and subsequent exposure by erosion was taken into account.
Many of these rocks occur not only together, forming a group or series, but are ejected in fragments through others and over incumbent strata to the highest series, assuming the appearance of having been once in a fused state. Thus fragments bearing all the features of having been fused or, at least, acted upon by fire or intense heat, occur scattered over the surface or imbedded in the strata of the Tertiary and Diluvial of this district, affording a demonstration that this region of country has been subjected to violent internal forces. The granite or syenite exhibits marks of some great force acting laterally and perpendicularly, which has rent the mass, heaved it up, and projected some of the fragments to a great distance.

<<<Page: 384>>>

It is evident here that he considered the bowlder structure incident to decomposition as original and due to method of extrusion.
Some interesting views regarding volcanic agencies are given in discussing the possible origin of the buhrstone, a chalcedonic rock carrying abundant casts of shells. The material as found occurred ‘‘only on the upper part of eminences and the edges of inverted cones.” This he seemed to think offered a sufticient demonstration of its igneous origin, and he would account for its uplift on the theory of submarine explosions taking place over a large extent of sea bottom simultaneously. The vesicular character of the buhrstone he likewise regarded as indicative of its volcanic origin. “It is highly probable that the fused mass in that state was spread over the bottom of the then existing ocean and that these vesicles or holes were the effect of water converted into steam by the influence of the heat of the mass.” Inasmuch as the fusion of silica without the aid of some other constituent to act as a flux is a phenomenon unknown in nature, such views now strike one as somewhat extraordinary. Nevertheless they were in accord with their time.
Although no use was made of fossils in attempting to ascertain the relative age of the various rocks, he nevertheless recognized the fact that they indicated a sedimentary origin. He wrote:
Geological investigation has led to the conclusion that there have been a number of deluges at different periods or, rather, that the oceanic waters have swept over the land, continued for an indefinite period, and then retreated several times, leaving their débris behind them. In no other place, perhaps, is the truth of the hypothesis better established than in this region, where fossil remains of different animals characterize different formations, as it is evident that these fossils must have been formed from animals who could not have existed under the earth, but on its surface and at the bottom of the then existing sea.
This well-meant attempt to arouse public interest proved only partially successful. The legislature of the following winter adopted a resolution authorizing the governor to employ a suitable and well qualified person to undertake the work and appropriated $10,000 to carry iton. Doctor Little was thereupon appointed State geologist, but as the legislature of 1840 abolished the office nothing of value was accomplished.
For but the third time in this history we are called upon to step beyond the limits of the United States, and for the second time upon the soil of Nova Scotia, a land still later made famous through the Sieate labors of Logan and the elder Dawson. In 1836 there WERE ee appeared a volume of 272 octavo pages, entitled Re-
marks on the Geology and Mineralogy of Nova Scotia, by Abraham Gesner. This had been preceded only by Jackson and Alger’s work, and was for its time unquestionably a remarkable book. A geological map of the interior of the peninsula accompanied the volume. The southwestern border was colored as occupied by primary

<<<Page: 385>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830-1839. Bi
granites, gneiss, and mica-slate, this being succeeded by a wide belt (colored blue) of transition slate, graywacke, and graywacke slate, and this, in its turn, by a broad band of sandstone (colored red) extending up as far-as Westmoreland County, New Brunswick. The broad belt of trap rocks along the southwest shore of the Bay of Fundy was colored green. Important beds of iron ore were indicated in the transition slate and of coal in the red sandstone. These districts were described in considerable detail, and attention was called to the fact that the different formations corresponded in direction and general character with those of the United States.
Gesner’s ideas regarding the uplifting of strata and the causes thereof were not at all in advance of his time. Thus writing of the position ot the slate:
The strata are variously inclined, and in some cases much twisted and broken; but generally they are so placed as to support the opinion that the primary rocks under their southern side have been uplifted by some violent and sudden movyement which has thrown the neighboring slate in its present leaning, and often perpendicular, position.
The iron ore of the South Mountains he regarded as of aqueous origin, such being demonstrated by the presence of the marine fossil shells which it contained. Their presence, however, he was unable to explain.
From whence came these shells, and by what mighty convulsions and changes in this globe have their inmates been deprived of life and incarcerated in hard, compact, and unyielding rocks? By what momentous and violent catastrophe have they been forced from the bottom of the ocean, where they were evidently at some
former period placed, to the height of several hundred feet above the level of the present sea, and even to the tops of the highest mountains?
And further on:
It is evident that the slate and ore containing the shells already mentioned were once at the bottom of an ancient sea. * * * By some mighty revolution the ground occupied by them has been uplifted and their native submarine possessions conyerted into slate, and even iron ore.
The fact that some of this iron ore is magnetic was regarded by Jackson and Alger as due to the presence of trap rock. Gesner, however, considered this as not probable, and called attention to the fact that the trap rocks are placed in a situation indicating a date much later than the New Red sandstone upon which they rest.
Notwitastanding the crudity of his notions as to the manner in which the fossil remains had become entombed, Gesner possessed very advanced ideas concerning their value for correlation purposes. This is shown in his discussion of the slate range extending from Yarmouth to the Gut of Canso. The fossils found therein, he felt, had an existence coeval with the original stratification.
NAT mus 1904——22

<<<Page: 386>>>

They were inhabitants of the same age, enjoyed similar bounties, the same climate, and were companions at a period when the waters of the sea were as warm as those of the present tropical oceans; a fact easily proved by their organization and the beauty and delicacy of their shelly coverings. The corals, coraline sponges, and other vegetable productions of that period, although bearing a striking resemblance to those now flourishing in submarine situations, have nevertheless some peculiar characteristic features, distinguishing them from species of the same classes now inhabiting our shores, although their lineal descendants have long since passed away.
Gesner was an extreme catastrophist, and his ideas concerning the origin of the drift, as well as that of coal, were formulated more or less by the scriptural account of the flood. Discussing the fragments of slate and the masses of quartz rock and granite that were found scattered over the surface of the Red Sandstone, and even entering into its composition at great depth, he argued that their shape demonstrated that they had been transported by the efforts of mighty currents. From this fact he conceived that similar causes had operated upon the surface of the earth at separate and distinct periods of time, one period having produced the ingredients of the newer rocks, which in their turn had been evidently denuded by the rapidity of overwhelming floods. He thought it probable that the first great catastrophe arose when the earth emerged from beneath the waters at its first creation, before which darkness was upon the face of the deep, and that it was not improbable that another geological event may have produced another class of phenomena at that period when the ‘‘ windows of heaven were opened and the fountains of the great deep broken up.”
The giant bowlders, sometimes found on the very hilltops, he recognized as erratics, but could not believe them to be due to flood action. ‘‘They have doubtless been thrown upwards,” he wrote, ‘‘and left cresting the highest ridges, by volcanic explosions that have taken place since the general inundation of our planet.” The general phenomena of the drift, however, he regarded as almost certainly the effect ‘of an overwhelming deluge which at a former period produced those results now so manifest upon the earth. Not only hath the granite sent its heralds abroad, large blocks of trap are also scattered over the soil of Nova Scotia far from their original and former stations.”
That coal is of organic origin he recognized, though as to the manner of its accumulation he was somewhat in doubt. He assumed that a part of it at least may have collected at the bottom of the sea, together with successive layers of sand and clay, and that the beds had since been uplifted by volcanic forces. The method of conversion of the organic matter into coal, he thought, might also have been brought about through the intervention of volcanic forces.
In discussing the changes which have taken place on the surface of the earth, he queried if such might not have been produced between that period when the globe was first created and the Noachian deluge, and might not many of those effects, the causes of which are now

<<<Page: 387>>>

almost inexplicable, have been produced at that momentous period when the ‘‘ windows of heaven were opened, and the fountains of the great deep broken up.’? * * * In no way can these phenomena be so satisfactorily accounted for and explained as by admitting the brief account of the creation of the world in the first chapter of Genesis; and that there is no necessity for making the world appear older than its date given by Moses.
Again:
The volcanic fires of the earth are gradually becoming extinct. They were evidently far more vehement in former ages than in the present day. Therefore, we have sufficient reasons to believe that from the creation of the world to the deluge great changes must have taken place upon the earth’s surface. Who can clearly decide that the flaming sword which forever shut out our first parents from Eden’s delightful garden was not a livid torrent of flame issuing from the ground polluted by sin? ~ Concerning the limestones of the coal formation along the Nepan River, he wrote:
On the surface of the limestone the detritus of the deluge forms a distinct covering; and, according to the opinion of some geologists, should not be considered in any way connected with the changes which have taken place in the strata beneath. But we would remark that although the beds of rounded pebbles and sand clearly demonstrate the effects of a flood, they can have no reference to the great geological catastrophe which ushered in that awful event. The depression of whole continents, the raising of the ocean’s level bed, the distortion of strata previously horizontal, the elevation of mountains, and all those violent operations whereby the whole surface of this planet has been rent asunder, might have been the prelude to that overwhelming deluge, while the diluvial débris resulted from the action of torrents after the crust of the globe had been thus broken up.
Gesner was born of German-French ancestry in Cornwallis, Nova Scotia, and was by professiona physician and surgeon. Fora long time after obtaining his degree he practiced his profession in the country
bordering the shores of Sketch oiGesner. Minas Basin, making his
visits on horseback, and often returning with saddlebags filled with specimens collected on the way. In 1838, two years after the publication just referred to, he was appointed provincial geologist of New Brunswick, and removed to St. John, where he established the Gesner Museum, afterwards purchased by the Natural History Society of New Brunswick. This was an all-round natural history collection, many of the zoological specimens having been collected by Gesner himself, who was an B(edon OM ean ardent sportsman.
After the somewhat premature closing of the survey in 1846(4), Gesner left St. John and returned to Cornwallis. During his residence here he wrote his works on New Brunswick, with notes for emigrants,

<<<Page: 388>>>

and The Industrial Resources of Nova Scotia. Besides his medical practice and the scientific and literary work already mentioned, Gesner engaged in studies in applied science, particularly in electricity and chemistry, and in 1854 took out a patent in the United States for the manufacture of kerosene from coal and other bituminous substances. About this period he resided in Brooklyn, New York, and was connected with the company haying works on Newton Creek near Perry Bridge. In 1861 he published a work on coal, petroleum, and other distilled oils. He returned to Halifax in 1863, where he died the following year. .
He is represented as a man of medium height, with deep chest and square shoulders, black hair and eyes, and a face showing deep thought and strong intellectual power. He was unquestionably a man of great mental and physical energy. He was noted for his deep piety and remained all his life a firm churchman. It is told of him that, when connected with Guy’s Hospital in London, if troubled by any physiological mystery which had become a subject of speculation, he always gave as his ultimate conclusion that ‘*God made it so.” This phrase became known as ‘‘Gesner’s reason” and was so used among’ the students. :
Although C. U. Shepard’s work was mainly mineralogical, he occasionally contributed papers on areal geology. Thus, in the American Spel at Journal of Science for 1838, we find an article by him enV nee minnie the geology of upper Illinois. In this he described
the extensive Kankakee swamp region south of Chicago, and the old beach lines above the present lake level. He also discussed the possible overflow of the lake in ancient periods to the southward, and dwelt to a considerable extent on the possibility of and the commercial advantages to be derived by uniting the waters of Lake Michigan and the Illinois River, forming thus a connection with the Mississippi. ;
The geology of the region was described as being exceedingly simple and uniform, the great rock formation being the magnesian limestone. He mentioned the occurrence in this of ‘‘Orthocera” and large ‘‘Pectunculus” and ‘ Terebratula,” two : species of ‘*Ammonites” and ** CaryophylFig. 29.—Charles Upham Shepard. lia,” and a ‘‘ Favosites.” The northern
houndary of the coal formation he said he could not define with precision through lack of opportunity to explore it in detail. A geological section of the region between Fox River and Spring Creek accompanied the paper.
a ee

<<<Page: 389>>>



<<<Page: 390>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 16.
State Geologist of Virginia.

<<<Page: 391>>>

On March 6, 1835, the general assembly of Virginia authorized the appointment of a ‘suitable person” to make a geological reconnaissance of the. State with a view to the general geological features of ee ee the territory and to the chemical suc esislag of us in Virginia, soils, rocks, ores, mineral waters, etc. Prof. WB.
Rogers, then professor of natural history, philosophy, and chemistry in William and Mary College, and brother of H. D. Rogers, was selected as the suitable person, entering upon his duties in 1835 and holding the office for seven years. He was assisted from time to time by George W. Boyd, Caleb Briggs, E. A. Aiken, C. B. Hayden, Samuel Lewis, J. B. Rogers, H. D. Rogers, R. E. Rogers, Thomas S. Ridgeway, and M. Wells. The survey continued in existence until the close of 1842, the act of authorization being repealed by the legislature.
No provision was made for the preparation of a final report, although Rogers was ready to undertake the same, and the idea not finally abandoned until as late as 1854. The necessary appropriation was, however, not granted, and the seven brief annual reports submitted are all there is to show for years of careful and patient work under most adverse circumstances. No map and no sections were published at the time. In 1884, after Rogers’s death, a reprint of ail these reports was made under the editorship of Maj. Jed. Hotchkiss, an engineer, of Staunton, Virginia. They formed an octavo volume of upward of five hundred pages. This was accompanied by a small geological map which Rogers had previously colored for Hotchkiss, and by numerous plates of sections, which are, however, not described in the text.
Under the conditions enumerated above, it is not surprising that the reports contained little of more than local interest, and that the broader aspects of geology were barely touched upon. The region west of the Blue Ridge was described as occupied by fourteen groups of strata, which were designated by numbers, beginning with the lowermost. These all showed so general a conformity in superposition, and so remarkable.a correspondence in their mineralogical and physical characters, as to clearly indicate, he felt, the propriety of regarding them all as parts of one great series of strata accumulated over the widely expanded floor of the ancient ocean.
No mention was made of the fossil contents of any of these beds, nor attempts at correlation or determination of their geological age. This seems the more remarkable when one considers the value attached to fossils by Rogers in his work on the Tertiary formations, where the inspection of a single shell, he claimed, would often enable one to pronounce upon the character of the stratum from which it was taken— that is, whether pertaining to the Eocene or Miocene.
The Massanutten Mountains were recognized as one great synclinal tract resting in a trough of slate. it is worthy of note, in view of the

<<<Page: 392>>>

H. D. Rogers-Hitchcock controversy referred to elsewhere (p. 314), that in his report for 1838 Rogers described in considerable detail **the extraordinary phenomenon of inversion” presented throughout the, long reach of North Mountains, whereby the entire series from formations II to VIII, inclusive, were found to lie conformably one upon the other, but in a reversed stratigraphical position; that is, the oldest above and the youngest at the bottom. No attempt, however, was made to account for the same.
In the report for 1839 the Tertiary marl south of the James River was described in detail and its Eocene and Miocene subdivisions recognized. In that for 1840 was given a list of the fossils found in the Miocene marls, and attention called to the discovery of a ‘t remarkable stratum varying from 12 to 25 feet in thickness, composed almost entirely of microscopic fossils (Diatoms), and lying between the Eocene and Miocene, but referred to neither.” This, the first discovery of its kind in the United States, was referred to as an ‘‘infusory stratum.” “ The coarse ‘*middle secondary” conglomerates of Virginia, corresponding to the Potomac marble (Triassic) of Maryland, he regarded as having been deposited by strong currents coming from the southeast which laid down their load in a long, narrow trough extending from southwest to the northeast; such ‘* being deposited in successive layers, commencing at its southeastern margin, would naturally assume the attitude of strata dipping toward the northwest.”
When one considers the condition of the country at the time Rogers did his work—the lack of facilities for transportation, the entire lack of maps sufficiently accurate for purposes of plotting, the deep mantle of residuary material that nearly everywhere obscured the more solid rocks, and that there were no railroad cuts or other artificial exposures, such as exist to-day—one can but admire its accuracy. It is not yet too late to express regrets that the parsimony of the legislature should have stood in the way of the preparation of a final report.
W. B. Rogers undoubtedly derived a portion of his enthusiasm for geology from his brother Henry. ‘The first manifestations of this mental trend appeared while professor of natural philosophy and chemistry at William and Mary College in 1833, when he set on foot inquiries relative to the greensand marl of Virginia. His first publication, as given in his biography y, however, related to artesian wells and appeared in the Farmer’s Register of Richaond (1834-35).
The poverty of his resources in 1835, while hopefully agitating the establishment of a State geological survey for Virginia, can not be better illustrated than by noting the request sent to his brother Henry, in EE an Ie for the chemicals and apparatus mentioned below to be
“In 1843 Tuomey announced the discovery of an infusorial stratum at pane in Virginia. This he referred to the lower portion of the Miocene,

<<<Page: 393>>>

used in the prosecution of his scientific work. The list comprised 1 platinum capsule, | pound of absolute alcohol (French), one-half ounce oxide of ammonia, one-half pound distilled muriatic acid (pure), 1 pound distilled nitric acid, one 4-ounce vial of phosphate of ammonia, 1 foot small platinum wire for blowpipe.
He wrote:
My alcohol, with all the economy I have used, is almost exhausted. The gill which I had at the opening of the course Has been used at least ten times in analysis, and though carefully distilled off in each operation, a portion is, of course, lost.
In August of 1835 Rogers was elected to the chair of natural philosophy in the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville, a position which he gladly accepted, being, undoubtedly, influenced in part at least by the more healthful climate of the latter place.
His first years here were, however, full of trial, owing to the dual nature of his duties—teacher and State geologist—and the lawless character of many of the students. Lacking, as he was, in physical stamina at the beginning, the trials as professor and the lack of appreciation of his work by the State legislature undoubtedly wore upon him severely and had to do with his comparatively early breaking down.
Like other of the broader men of his time, Rogers was an all-round scientist, and wrote not merely on geology, but made observations on the aurora, experiments with reference to binocular visions, and other subjects.
As early as 1846, in connection with his brother Henry, he formulated plans for the Polytechnic School in Boston, which place he felt persuaded was on all accounts the best suited for an institution of this kind. ‘‘I long for an atmosphere of more stimulating power,” he wrote from Charlottesville, and with these thoughts in mind he resigned his professorship in 1848, but was induced to reconsider and remain for five years longer. On his final removal to Boston in 1853 he continued to take an active part in scientific and educational matters. The year 1859 found him again actively advocating his plan for an institute of technology, the matter being brought forward at this time in connection with the so-called Back Bay lands and their rapidly enhancing value, and in 1861 an act to incorporate the Massachusetts Institute of Technology passed the legislature and was approved by the governor. In 1862, an organization having been perfected, he was elected its first president, an office he continued to hold until forced to resign by ill health in 1870. In 1878, his health having improved, he was again induced to temporarily accept the presidency, holding the position three years, and being succeeded by Gen. F. A. Walker.
His reputation as a geologist rests mainly upon his work as State geologist of Virginia and that on the structure of the Appalachian

<<<Page: 394>>>

Chain in connection with his brother, H. D. Rogers. He was, however, widely known as an educator and orator. ‘To quote from one of his biographers:
The wide extent of his own studies and researches in mechanics, physics, chemistry, and geology; his truly philosophical spirit, his unfailing courtesy and urbanity, his warm sympathies, his scientific enthusiasm, his commanding and stately presence, his rare gifts of expression, all combined to make him the ideal presiding officer. His introductions were most felicitous; his comments highly suggestive and inspiring; his summing up was always a masterpiece of discriminating and judicious reasoning, while, over all, his rich, tropical eloquence threw a spell as of poesy and romance, for to him the truth was always beautiful, and the most solid and substantial structure of scientific principle stood in his view against a sunset sky, radiant with a light which no painter’s pencil ever had the art to fix to canvas.
On April 15, 1836, there was authorized by the State assembly a geological and mineralogical survey of New York. This led to an
organization which has left a more lasting impression upon American
geology than any that has followed or had preceded Geological Survey, it. As fate ordained, the locality was one of the most
favorable that could have been selected for working out the fundamental principles of stratigraphic geology; moreover, those appointed to do the work proved equal to the occasion. The New York survey gave to American geology a nomenclature largely its own; it demonstrated above everything else the value of fossils for purposes of correlation, and incidentally it brought into prominence one man, James Hall, who was destined to become America’s greatest paleontologist.
To secure the greatest amount of individual freedom and to facilitate the work to best advantage, the State was divided into four districts, W. W. Mather being placed in charge of the first, Ebenezer Emmons the second, Timothy A. Conrad the third, and Lardner Vanuxem the fourth. The survey continued in existence for five years, reports being issued annually in the form of assembly documents, the final reports appearing in 1842-43 in the form of quarto volumes, comprising, all told, over 2,000 pages and 82 plates, sections, and maps.
The mineralogical and chemical work of the survey was placed under the charge of Dr. Lewis C. Beck, while Dr. John Torrey was made botanist and Dr. James E. De Kay given charge of the zoological department. At the end of the first season Conrad resigned, to become paleontologist of the survey, andJames Hall, who had previously been an assistant to Emmons, was put in charge of the fourth district, while Vanuxem was transferred to the second. As with all the earlier surveys, agriculture and mining were considered subjects of primary importance. The results of the survey can, however, be best considered under the date of issue of the final reports (p. 374).
This same year witnessed also the establishment of a geological survey in the adjoining State of Pennsylvania, of which H. D. Rogers,

<<<Page: 395>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill
Paleontologist.

<<<Page: 396>>>



<<<Page: 397>>>

also State geologist of New Jersey, was placed in charge. This survey, as first planned, was expected to continue for a period of at least ae ten years, but was brought to an abrupt close in 1842, of Pennsylvania, owing to the financial embarrassments of the Common; wealth. Rogers, however, unwilling to relinquish the work in its incomplete form, continued on bis own responsibility, and largely at his own expense, for three years longer, and in 1847 deposited in the office of the secretary of the Commonwealth his final report, ready for publication. For reasons to be noted later, the publication of this report was delayed until 1858. During its period of existence the survey issued six annual reports, the first bearing the date of 1836 and the last 1842. These were smalloctavos, destitute of illustration, with the exception of a few outline sections, and of from 100 to 250 pages each. The results of the work were so completely elaborated in the final reports issued in 1858 that these preliminary publications have been almost completely lost sight of and are of merely historical interest. It is well to note that, owing to the large proportion of foreign population in the State at that date, two editions of the preliminary reports were issued—one in English and one in German. This dual publication, so far as the present writer is aware, was paralleled only in the case of the Ohio survey, under Newberry. : As with the New York survey, the results of Rogers’s work can be best summed up in a consideration of the final reports (see p. 489.) After nearly ten years of agitation, there was passed by both houses of Congress, and approved by the President on May 14, 1836, a bill providing for an exploring expedition to the South Polar regions and the islands and coasts of the Pacific. This expedition, Expedition tsse which finally sailed from Norfolk on August 17, 1838, and which, from the name of its commander in chiet, has come to be known as the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, had for its immediate object the increase of such knowledge as would be of interest and value to the whaling industry, which had suffered severely through loss of men and vessels in these remote regions. Research along other lines was purely secondary. Fortunately, however, the scientific men of the day were fully alive to the possibilities offered, and, through their influence, an efficient corps of trained observers in various lines was permitted to accompany it. Of these only the geologist, J. D. Dana, who sailed on the /acock, comes within the range of our present work, though incidental reference will be made to J. P. Couthouy, who sailed on the Vincennes. Inasmuch, however, as no tangible results from the expedition were made -known until after the return of Dana, in 1841, the entire matter may also be dismissed here and taken up again under the latter date.

<<<Page: 398>>>

In March, 1836, sixteen years after her establishment on a basis of independent statehood, the legislature of Maine authorized the appointment of ‘‘some suitable person” to make a geological survey of the
: State ‘Sas soon as circumstances will permit,” approeons seaee | priating the sum of $5,000 to cover expenses.” On June 25 a contract was entered into with Dr. C. T. Jackson for the carrying out of the same. Jackson seems to have entered upon his duties promptly and energetically, making: his first report, a volume of 116 octavo pages, in December, 1836. This was accompanied by an atlas of 24 plates. His results were apparently satisfactory to the legislature, the appointment being renewed the following year and $3,000 appropriated for expenses. Under this appropriation a second annual report of 168 octavo pages was forthcoming. This in its turn was seemingly satisfactory, for the geologist’s salary was increased from $1,000 to $1,500 a year, while the sum appropriated for the carrying on of the work was made discretionary with the governor and council. Under such favoring conditions it is not strange perhaps that the State geologist became efiusive and brought his third (and last) report up to 276 pages, with an appendix of 64 pages, containing a catalogue of the collections.
These reports, examined in the light of to-day, contain very little which would be considered of geological importance. Jackson seems to have roamed somewhat at random over the State, with little idea of the geological structure as a whole, and to have contented himself with making detailed notes on whatever was immediately at hand, regardless of its possible relationship to other formations at a distance and with an eye particularly to economic questions.
From the finding of marine shells at Lubec in layers of clay now some twenty-six feet above high-water mark, he rightly conjectured that the land had been elevated that amount within a comparatively recent period. He regarded the sandstones now known to be Devonian in the extreme eastern counties as identical with the red Triassic sandstones of Nova Scotia, and seriously discussed the possibility of their containing bituminous coal. The slates of Piscataquis County were classed as transition, and the possibility of their carrying anthracite coal was likewise discussed.
In his third annual report he noted the occurrence of fossil plants in the slates of Waterville and remarked on the discovery as being a strange occurrence, since the rocks belong to the older Transition series.” .
«The legislature of Massachusetts authorized State cooperation in this survey so far as it related to certain public lands which were the joint property of the two States.
» At the second session of the American Association of Geologists in Philadelphia, 1841, Professor O. P. Hubbard exhibited a specimen of this slate and was able to show by the aid of ‘‘ Murchison’s Silurian system ’”’ that they were not plant remains but annelid trails, a view which Jackson accepted.

<<<Page: 399>>>

The possibility of the occurrence of beds of coal at Small Point Harbor near Phippsburg was investigated. As a_ result it was announced that there was no possibility of such being included in rock of the nature there found, and that the coal sometimes thrown up on the beach was presumably from English sources. So early a statement of this nature is interesting in view of borings for coal which have taken place along this coast within a very few years.
Jackson’s views on the glacial deposits were naturally crude. The ‘shorsebacks” (ridges of glacial gravel) were regarded as diluvial material transported by a mighty current of water.
It is supposed that this rushing of water over the land took place during the last grand deluge, accounts of which have been handed down by tradition and are preserved in the archives of all people. Although it is commonly supposed that the deluge was intended solely for the punishment of the corrupt antediluvians, it is not improbable that the descendants of Noah reap many advantages from its influence, since the various soils underwent modifications and admixtures which render them better adapted for the wants of man. May not the hand of Benevolence be seen working even amid the waters of the deluge?
It is, perhaps, doubtful if the hard-fisted occupant of many of Maine’s rocky farms would be disposed to take so cheerful a view of _ the matter.
However Jackson’s work may impress the reader of to-day, it was considered by areviewer in the American Journal of Science (XXXII, 1837) as a ‘‘model of its kind. It has certainly not been surpassed by any similar effort in this country,” and ** The present sketch of Maine is a masterly production.”
In 1839 the general assembly of Rhode Island appropriated the sum of $2,000 to pay the expenses of a geological and agricultural survey of the State, and Doctor Jackson, fresh from his work in Maine, was
placed in charge of this also, making his report the Jackson’s Survey of f0llowing year. This constituted the first, last, and Rhode Island, 1839. Gnly survey of Rhode Island carried on under State auspices.
Such a work was naturally productive of little of importance, and no new principles whatever were evolved. Aside from the gathering of a few facts of possible economic value, it resulted on‘ in an extension of knowledge relative to the distribution of certain geologic groups. This, however, was a feature of all the work carried on by Jackson. As further illustrating the condition of geological knowledge, the report is, however, worthy of consideration.
In his introduction he remarked on the attempt on the part of some geologists to abandon the name Transition and to group these rocks with the Secondary, according to the original schemes of Lehman, and felt that a numerical division would doubtless be found preferable to any of the fanciful names proposed for some of its subdivisions. The names Cambrian and Silurian, as proposed in England, he

<<<Page: 400>>>

thought, *‘ will never be regarded in this country as appropriate terms for our rocks.” He recognized the existence of contact phenomena, and also that the degree of crystallization and general structural features of an igneous rock are dependent upon conditions of cooling, though he regarded pumice as being formed when the fused rock, under little pressure, was brought in contact with water. The possibility of the cellular structure being due to expansion of vapor of water in the lava itself was not recognized. The hornblende rock, so extensively developed in Cumberland, Smithfield, and Johnston, he regarded as of igneous origin, and suggested that its apparent stratiform structure might be due to an admixture of the argillaceous slate through which it was elevated.
The eruptive nature of the Cumberland iron ore was also recognized, though naturally the fact that the rock was an iron-rich peridotite partially altered into serpentine, as later described by Wadsworth, was overlooked.
The origin of the drift was to him still obscure. Concerning the distribution in the form of bowlders of the iron ore to the southward, above mentioned, he wrote:
There can not remain a doubt that a violent current of water has rushed over the surface of the State since the elevation and consolidation of all the rocks and subsequent to the deposition of the tertiary clay, and that this current came from the north. * * * Upon the surface of solid ledges, wherever they havé been recently uncovered of their soil, scratches are seen running north and south and the hard rocks are more or less polished by the currents of water which at the diluvial epoch coursed over their surfaces, carrying along the pebbles and sand which effected this abrasion, leaving strive, all of which run north and south, deviating a few degrees occasionally with the changes of direction given to the current by obstacles in its way.
He did not accept the theory of drifting icebergs, ‘‘nor can we allow that any glaciers could have produced them by their loads of sliding rocks, for in that case they should radiate from the mountains instead of following a uniform course along hillsides and through valleys.”
The report was accompanied by six plates of Coal-Measure fossils and a geological map.
Geological work in Delaware at the expense of the State began and ended with the survey by J. C. Booth, a chemist, during 1837-38. Incidentally, it may be remarked that Mr. Booth’s career as a geoloeae gist was equally prescribed. a, of Delaware, A unique feature of the act establishing the survey
was the requirement that an equal portion of the appropriation should be expended in each county, regardless of existing conditions. The clause was presumably inserted to allay local jealousies, but the absurdity of the same is, nevertheless, so great as to leave no room for comment. In the report, which appeared in the

<<<Page: 401>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830-1839. 3b49
form of an octavo volume of 188 pages in 1841, the geological formations of the State were divided into (1) Primary, (2) Upper Secondary, (3) Tertiary, and (4) Recent. The geographical distribution and lithological character of each was given in detail. The Primary included gneiss, feldspathean rocks (traps), limestone, serpentine, and granite; the Upper Secondary, the Red Clay Formation and the Green Sand Formation. The Tertiary he divided into the northern Tertiary, the southern Tertiary, the yellow-clay formation of Appoquinimink Hundred, and the intermediate clays and sands. The Recent Formations were divided into the lower clays, the upper sands, and the river deposits. Attention was given to the Greensand and to other questions of economic interest.
The report as a whole represents the patient attempt of a man unversed in the broader problems of geology who wrote down only what he saw and thought he understood. His remarks on the weathering of rocks are perhaps the most striking. The entire cost of this survey to the State was $3,000, of which sum Booth received $2,000 for his two years’ work, the remainder going to defray cost of publication of the report and various incidentals.
In 1837 there was organized the first State geological survey of Indiana, Dr. D. D. Owen, who had served as an assistant on the survey of Tennessee under Gerard Troost, being appointed State geologist. The ts Pee life of the survey was limited to two years, and two Survey ofindiana, Treports were rendered, one of 34 pages, bearing date
of 1838, and one of 54 pages, bearing date of 1839.4
The essential similarity of the formations of Indiana with those of Ohio was recognized. The lowest lying, oldest rock, called blue limestone,? which he regarded as the equivalent of the Lower Silurian limestones of Europe, was described as forming, near the common boundary line between Indiana and Ohio, a kind of backbone which dipped gently in east and west directions, gradually disappearing in both States beneath a series of overlapping strata which, with one exception, have uniform characteristics. Here for the second time (see p. 333) is recognized the presence of the low swell known later as the Cincinnati anticline or uplift, which was subsequently identified by Newberry and Safford as a Middle Silurian emergence. This blue limestone was overlain by another limestone, regarded as the
Fic. 30.—James Curtis Booth.
“ Reprints of these appeared under date of 1859. » This is the equivalent of the Cincinnatian division of the Lower Silurian of recent writers.

<<<Page: 402>>>

equivalentof the Cliff rock (Niagaran) of Doctor Locke; this, in its turn, by a series of black slates, the equivalent of the Waverly sandstones of Ohio, and this in turn by a series of limestones in part oolitic and the equivalent of the Ohio conglomerate. This last, immediately upon which the coal formation rests at Oil Creek, in Perry County, -he considered the uppermost member of a new series, to which he applied the name sub-Carboniferous, ‘tas indicating its position immediately beneath the coal or Carboniferous group of Indiana,” and ‘* which merely indicates its position beneath the Carboniferous group without involving any theory.” .
Immediately overlying this sub-Carboniferous limestone was his bituminous coal formation, the latest and youngest of the series with the exception of the diluvium. He regarded the bituminous coal formation as a part of a great coal field which included nearly the whole of Iowa and Illinois and eight or ten counties in the northwestern part of Kentucky, and recognized the improbability of anthracite coal being found within the limits of the State.
He recognized the importance of fossils in geological correlation and, through the presence of the characteristic forms pentrenites and archimedes, correctly referred the oolitic rock to the sub-Carboniferous, notwithstanding its close lithological resemblance to the Jurassic oolites of England and the European continent. ¢
David Dale Owen was a son of Robert Owen, the well-known philanthropist and founder of the communistic societies at New Lanark, Scotland, and New Harmony, Indiana. He first came to America in
1828, but in 1831 returned to Europe, in company orn Ob with Prof. H. D. Rogers, for the purpose of qualify-
ing himself in chemistry and geology. Returning to America in 1832, he studied medicine at the Ohio Medical College in Cincinnati, from whence he graduated in 1836.
His earliest geological work was done in connection with Dr. Gerard Troost in Tennessee, and his earliest independent work that which has just been mentioned. Subsequently he made surveys under the United States General Land Office, in which work he showed administrative ability of no ordinary kind. Indeed, the organization and carrying out of the plan for a survey of the mineral lands of Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin (in 1839-40) within the short space of time and under the conditions imposed }y Congress was a feat of generalship which has never been equalled in American geological history.
«There are ni merous references in the reports of 1838 and 1839 to sections and a geological map which, however, were apparently never published. In a partial reprint bearing date of 1859 entitled ‘‘Continuation of Report of the Geological Reconnaissance of the State of Indiana,’’ made in 1838, where reference is again made to this map, occurs the following footnote: ‘‘The original geological map here referred to was deposited in the State library but has not been published.”’

<<<Page: 403>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 18.
DAvID DALE OWEN.
Geologist.

<<<Page: 404>>>



<<<Page: 405>>>



<<<Page: 406>>>

Seo N°S
Geological Seotion on the Mississippt River, from the mouth of Lake S¥ Croix Imile above the falls of S* Anthony Showing the relative Uuckniess, and, dip of the Shell Lunestones (F_N°3! White Sandstone, (F N°22¢) Lower Magnesia Limestone ( FN? 2 Jand Lewer Sandstone F NL £ Constructed trom observatums made by BI Staurard. & DD Owen
Falls of 5* Anthony , i S? Peter's Riser
Great Cloud [sland
Bluffs two miles above Lake S$” Cro
OWEN’sS GEOLOGICAL SECTIONS,
Reduced copy of original in Report of a Geological Reconnaissance of the Chippewa Land District

<<<Page: 407>>>

7 ah
= hi, ne
hy Mad en:
pune
va Fy bal tatos
eco Wiha
font 1

<<<Page: 408>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904—Merrill. P PLATE XIX.
Seo N°S
Showing the relative bi) N°LFf
RE SN cers» x
> Great Cloud Ueland
CBCrahem Lan

<<<Page: 409>>>

His life was one of unceasing activity and furnished one more illustration of the energy, persistence, and virility of the Scotch emigrants and their descendants in America. He is described as a man of amiability, simplicity, and integrity of purpose, and certainly was an artist of no inconsiderable ability, as is exemplified by the sketches in his numerous reports. The geological sections given by him in the report on the Chippewa land district have never been equalled for picturesque effect (see Plate 19). :
To properly appreciate much that is to follow, it must be remembered that, beginning with 1807, all Government lands containing ores were reserved from sale and a system of leasing adopted. No leases
BD Owen's were, however, issued until 1822, and little mining Wisteria, ow? was done previous to 1826. For a few years, accord-
Mlinois, 1839-40. ing to Whitney, rents for the mining lands were paid
by the operators with comparative regularity, but after 1834, in consequence of the innumerable fraudulent entries of lands as agricultural which should, in reality, have been reserved as mineral, the smelters and miners refused to make any further payments, and the United States officers were entirely unable to enforce the claims of the Goyernment.
In consequence of these difficulties a resolution was adopted in the House of Representatives, on the 6th of February, |889—
That the President of the United States be requested to cause to be prepared, and presented to the next Congress at an early day, a plan for the sale of the public mineral lands, having reference as well to the amount of revenue to-be derived from them and their value as public property as to the equitable claims of individuals upon them; and that he at the same time communicate to Congress all the information in possession of the Treasury Department relative to their location, value, productiveness, and occupancy; and that he cause such further information to be collected and surveys to be made as may be necessary for these purposes.
In accordance with this act Doctor Owen was appointed Government geologist under direction of the General Land Office (James Whitcomb, Commissioner) to make surveys in Iowa, Wisconsin, and northern Illinois. His first report, bearing date of April 2, 1840, was printed to form House Document No. 239, of the First session of the Twenty-sixth Congress.“ It comprised, all told, 161 printed octavo pages, with 25 plates and maps, including a colored geological map and several colored sections. Fourteen of the plates were from Owen’s own drawings. The district explored comprised an area of about 11,000 square miles lying in equal portions on both sides of the Mississippi River, between latitude 41° and 43°, beginning at the north of Rock River and extending thence north upward of 100 miles to the Wisconsin River. (See fig. 45.)
«A reprint or second edition of the work was brought out in form of Senate Document No. 407, 28th Congress, 1844.

<<<Page: 410>>>

oo2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.
Doctor Owen’s commission reached him at New Harmony, Indiana, on August 17, 1839, and its acceptance demanded that he explore ‘‘all the land in the Mineral Point and Galena districts which are situated south of the Wisconsin and north of the Rock rivers, and west of the line dividing ranges 8 and 9 east of the fourth principal meridian; together with all the surveyed lands in the Dubuque district,” and complete his work before the approaching winter should set in. Concerning these somewhat remarkable conditions, Owen writes:
After duly weighing the nature of my instructions, estimating the extent of country to be examined, considering the wild, unsettled character of a portion of it, and the scanty accommodations it could afford to a numerous party (which rendered necessary a carefully calculated system of purveyance), and ascertaining that the winter, in that northern region, commonly sets in with severity from the 10th to the middle of November, my first impression was that the duty required of me was impracticable of completion within the given time, even with the liberal permission in regard to force accorded to me in my instructions. But on a more careful review of the means thus placed at my disposal, I finally arrived at the conclusion that by using diligent exertion, assuming much responsibility, and incurring an expense which I was aware the Department might possibly not have anticipated, I might, in strict accordance with my instructions, if favored by the weather and in other respects, succeed in completing the exploration in the required time.
I therefore ininiediately commenced engaging subagents and assistants and proceeded to St. Louis. There (at my own expense, to be repaid to me out of the per diem of the men employed) I laid in about $3,000 worth of provisions and camp furniture, including tents, which I caused to be made for the accommodation of the whole expedition; and in one month from the day on which [ received my commission and instructions in Indiana (to wit, on the 17th of September) I had reached the mouth of Rock River; engaged one hundred and thirty-nine subagents and assistants; instructed my subagents in such elementary principles of geology as were necessary to the performance of the duties required of them; supplied them with simple mineralogical tests, with the application of which they were made acquainted; organized twenty-four working corps, furnished each with skeleton maps of the townships assigned to them for examination, and placed the whole at the points where their labors commenced, all along the southern line of the western half of the territory to be examined. Thence the expedition proceeded northward, each corps being required, on the average, to overrun and examine thirty quarter sections daily, and to report to myself on fixed days at regularly appointed stations; to receive which reports, and to examine the country in person, I crossed the district under examination, in an oblique direction, eleven times in the course of the survey. Where appearances of particular interest presented themselves, I either diverged from my route, in order to bestow upon these a more minute and thorough examination; or, when time did not permit this, [ instructed Dr. John Locke, of Cincinnati (formerly of the geological corps of Ohio, and at present professor of chemistry in the medical college of Ohio), whose valuable services I had been fortunate enough to engage on this expedition, to inspect these in my stead.
By the 24th of October the exploration of the Dubuque district was completed, and the special reports of all the townships therein were dispatched to your office and to the office of the register at Dubuque, On the 14th of November the survey of the Mineral Point district was in a similar manner brought to a close, and by the 24th of November our labors finally terminated at Stephenson, in Illinois, the examinations of all the lands comprehended in my instructions having been completed in

<<<Page: 411>>>

two menths and six days from the date of our actual commencement in the field. Also several thousand specimens—some of rare beauty and interest—were collected, arranged, and labeled.
The. immediate result of this examination was to establish the fact **that the district surveyed is one of the richest mineral regions, compared to extent, yet known in the world.” The area marked off as including the productive lead region, as shown by his map, lay mainly in Wisconsin, but comprised also a strip of about eight townships on the Iowa side of the river and about ten townships in the northwest corner of Illinois, the ore-bearing strata being limited to a heavybedded magnesian limestone which, on account of its characteristic tendency to form perpendicular cliffs when subjected to weathering and erosion, he called the Cliff limestone. This, he thought, from its fossil remains, to be the equivalent of the Upper Silurian, and perhaps a part of the Lower Silurian of Murchison. Though sparingly developed in the east, this, according to Owen, ‘‘swells in the Wisconsin lead region into the most remarkable, most important, and most bulky member of the group. It becomes, as it were, the Aaron’s rod, swallowing up all the rest,” and attaining a thickness of upward of 500 treet,”
Owen’s principal assistants were Dr. John Locke, who reported mainly on the barometrical observations, with particular reference to the measurement of altitudes and the making of geological sections, and a Mr. E. Phillips, who reported on the timber, soil, and productiveness of the region.
On April 18, 1838, Abraham Gesner, whose work in Nova Scotia we have already referred to (p. 336), was appointed provincial geologist of New Brunswick, a position he continued to hold until 1848, makSLO ee ing during this time five brief reports, comprising New Brunswick, altogether but 440 pages. A partial geological map
was prepared, but never published. A considerable portion of the reports was gi¥en up toa discussion of economic matters, particularly the coal beds, the value of which, as noted later, he quite overestimated. The first four reports deal largely with that portion of the province south of the Miramichi, Nashwaak, and St. John’s rivers. The fifth and last (1848) describes the country of the upper St. John and that between the headwaters of the Tobique and Ristigouche rivers.
A gradual advance is to be noted, particularly where Gesner in his second report subdivided his graywacke, which he thought comparable
“To James Hall’s proposition to substitute the name Niagara for Clif’, Owen objected, claiming that the Niagara, as known in the east, represented only a part of the fornration he was describing. In this last he was certainly right, more recent work having shown that his Cliff limestone included also beds belonging to what is now known as the Trenton period of the Lower Silurian.
NAT Mus 1904 23

<<<Page: 412>>>

with Murchison’s Silurian, into upper and lower members, of which the upper contained a fossil mollusk which he identified as a terebratulite, and which Dr. G. F. Matthew” thinks to have been probably a sgmewhat poorly preserved Orthis billingsi. He also reported the finding of remains of conifers, calamites, and a cactus (%), the last being regarded by Matthew as some form imitative of a stigmaria. Though the full significance of these fossil remains was not appreciated by Gesner, yet he must be regarded as a pioneer in making known the flora of both the Cambrian and Carboniferous beds in New Brunswick.
In his fourth report he classed this graywacke with Sedgwick’s Cambrian. About this time (1842) he seems to have become acquainted with Agassiz’s glacial theories and referred to the expressed opinions of Lyell and Buckland with reference thereto, but thought that ‘‘ the general occurrence of diluyial grooves and scratches upon the surfaces of the rocks * * * can not in general be explained unless by admitting that a great current of water has passed over the country from the north toward the south,” though ‘‘it appears that ancient glaciers have had a powerful influence in the accumulation of those parallel mounds of erratic sand and gravel observed in different parts of these provinces, and likewise they may have been the means whereby bowlders of granite and other rocks have been scattered over the country.”
In this, his fifth report, he gave a general description of the coal fields of the province, which he estimated as embracing an area of 8,700 square miles, or nearly one-third the entire area of New Brunswick, making it one of the largest in the world. Through the influence of these reports a great deal of interest was excited in the public mind concerning the mineral wealth of the province. A large number of mining adventures were undertaken with the expectation of immediate and favorable returns. Few of these were, however, successful, and the reaction in public feeling tended to throw discredit on Gesner’s work and probably was influential in terminating his engagement, the survey being brought to an abrupt conclusion in 1843.
The problem of the Tertiary deposits of the southern Atlantic States, which up to date had been touched upon in a scientific manner only by Finch, Morton, Vanuxem, and Lea, was again, in 1839, RS eee taken up by T. A. Conrad, In the journal of the on the Tertiary, Philadelphia Academy of Sciences for this year ConMee ‘ad described the Tertiary of Maryland as occupying all the tract south of an irregular line running from the vicinity of Baltimore to Washington, the Potomac being the western and the Chesapeake the eastern boundary. The deposit in the vicinity of Fort
« Bulletin 15, Natural History Society of New Brunswick, 1897.

<<<Page: 413>>>

Washington on the Potomac, he suggested, was probably contemporaneous with the London clay, i. e. Eocene.
The cause of the change in the character of animal life between rocks belonging to the different animal horizons, was regarded by Conrad as due to climatic changes. ‘* Periodical refrigeration alone can explain the sudden extinction of whole races of animals and vegetables.”
It is well to note that in his Geological Report for the State of New York, Conrad recognized the fact that in the earlier eras of our planet the temperature was uniform and the seas comparatively shallow. Hence, he thought, in the older rocks we should expect to find organic remains belonging to one group of species over the whole globe. Deep erosion and greater variation of temperature had caused more uncertainty in the Upper Tertiary formations.
In connection with Conrad’s work, it may not be out of place to note that Prof. J. L. Riddell this same year described the surface geology of Trinity County, Texas, and, basing his determinations mainly on the beds of lignite there found, put down the prevailing sandstone as Tertiary.
Incidentally, also, it may be noted that during 1840 Mr. James T. Hodge made a trip through the eastern portion of the southern Atlantic States and made extensive collections of fossils, which were turned over to Conrad for identification. Hodge’s notes, as published in the Transactions of the Association of American Geologists, contain little of geological value, but the list of fossils comprised some 134 species, of which 32 were then new to science. All were of Tertiary age.
Conrad was born in Philadelphia in 1803, and from early youth showed a decided taste for natural-history studies, though for a time following the calling of his father—that of a publisher and printer.
The work noted on page 306 was his second of geologSketch of Conrad. ical importance, and was preceded also in 1831 by :
paper on American marine conchology. Of his subsequent writings on conchology, paleontology, or general geology upward of twenty related to the Tertiary, and it is upon these that his fame asa geologist chiefly rests, though in addition he described the fossils collected by the Wilkes exploring expedition, by Lieutenant Lynch’s expedition to the Dead Sea, by the Mexican boundary survey under Lieutenant Emery, and was first geologist and then paleontologist to the New York State survey.
Personally Conrad was peculiar.
He wrote his letters and labels frequently on all sorts of scraps of paper, generally without date or location. He was naturally careless or unmethodical, and his citations of other authors’ works can not be safely trusted without verification, and are usually incomplete. He had a very poor memory, and on several occasions has redescribed his own species. This defect increased with age, and, while no question of willful misstatement need arise, made it impossible to place implicit confidence in his own recollections of such matters as dates of publication. (Dall.)

<<<Page: 414>>>

He himself says, in a characteristic letter to F. B. Meek, written July, 1863:
I go on Monday to help H. ferret out my skulking species of paleozoic shells. May the recording angel help me. God and I knew them once, and the sue may know still. A man’s memory is no part of his soul.
Conrad was bitterly opposed to the doctrine of evolution, and predicted that Darwin’s wild speculations would soon be forgotten. Every geological age came, according to him, to a complete close, and the life of the succeeding one was a wholly new creation. His feeling on this subject is well shown in a letter, also to Meek, dated February, 1869, where he says:
I sent you to-day a copy of my paper in Kerr’s geological report. I perceive by Cope, Martin, and Hayden’s researches that they have not found that phantom of the imagination, a formation between chalk and Eocene. The world has been so thoroughly harried by despairing development philosophers with so little result that they may as well say the ‘‘game is up,’’ and not speculate on lost formations lying at the bottom of the ocean, a desperate expedient to save genetic succession. It is strange that geologists can not recognize an Azoic era after the chalk. I consider, in the light of paleontology, the advent of one only form of life in the beginning to be absurd. The history of Lingula ought to teach us the permanence of certain forms of life from the beginning, while thousands of others were created and died out.
Poor in health, given to melancholy and low spirits, he furnished to American geological history that which has a counterpart only in Percival, and like Percival, it may be added, he was sometimes given to rhyming, though unlike Percival, he was slovenly and careless in his work to a point beyond endurance.
His melancholy increased with age, and frequent ill health caused him at times to lose interest in every undertaking.
A period of moping would usually end in his writing some verses which nobody would praise, and this seemed sufficiently to nettle him, to rouse him thoroughly, and he would become again enthusiastic in the matter of shells and fossils.
It was presumably during one of these moping periods that he wrote again to Meek under date of October 24, 1864, as follows:
I am troubled with the cui bono malady, and frequently wish to be under the ‘“clods of the valley.’’ The idea of suicide haunts me continually, and I wish to get to work to banish the horrors, but whatever side I look at work it brings expenses I think I would regret. Singular inconsistencies of man. I don’t expect to live much longer, yet shrink from expenses, but such is the hard mental twist that early poverty gives the mind. My blues have been considerably increased by the death of Doctor Moore,¢ who I loved more than most other men, and by the death of my nearest and dearest sister with whom I lived in Trenton. Now I must plunge into the marl beds to keep up a little time longer and hope to finish the Miocene figures before I go where no dreams of new discoveries will haunt me. Excuse this egotism; it is the last of it; but you now see why I do so little. Only one thing remains. I don’t suppose you feel the want of a home, but I have felt it all my life, and the dreams of an Egeria have overtopped the dreams of science, so
“Dr. W. D. Moore, of the University of Mississippi.

<<<Page: 415>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1830-1839. Sf
that in the midst of geological pursuits a horrid vacancy has yawned in my heart, and a grinning devil laughed over a drawer of fossil shells. A small Hamlet in science, I grow old and reform not.
Conrad, though primarily a paleontologist, was sometimes drawn out of ‘his chosen field by phenomena too obvious to be overlooked, and concerning the nature of which little was actually known, even by
the best authorities. The occurrence of enormous tho bua. tsa0°. ~~ bowlders in the drift and resting often upon uncon-
solidated sand and gravel, naturally called for an explanation. That such could not have been brought into their present position through floods was to him obvious, neither could they have been floated by ice floes from the north during a period of terrestrial depression.
He assumed, rather, that the country, previous to what is now known as the glacial epoch, was covered with enormous lakes, and that a change in climate ensued, causing them to become frozen and converted into immense glaciers. At the same time, elevations and depressions of the earth’s surface were in progress, giving various degrees of inclination to the frozen surfaces of the lakes, down which bowlders, sand, and gravel would be impelled to great distances from the points of their origin. The impelling force might, in some cases, be gravity alone; but during the close of the epoch, when the temperature had risen, vast landslides—avalanches of mud filled with detritus— would be propelled for many miles over these frozen lakes, and when the ice disappeared the same would be deposited in the form of a promiscuous aggregate of sand, gravel, pebbles, and bowlders. The polished and scratched surface of the rocks in western New York he ascribed to the action of sand and pebbles, which were carried by moving bodies of ice, that is. apparently, to local glaciation.
The year 1839 seems to have been one of remarkable activity among American geologists. Moreover, the various publications began to show a greater variation in individual opinion and a disposition on
the part of many to judge for themselves rather than Vieng’ Fares — follow too implicitly the opinions of others. Many of
the ideas put forward were naturally crude (How could they be otherwise’), but furnish us with a very good insight into the gradual evolution of ideas upon a great variety of subjects.
George E. Hayes wrote upon the geology and topography of western New York and incidentally put. forth several theoretical ideas worthy of mention, even though ill-founded. He took occasion to deplore the common custom of invoking the assistance of the Noachian deluge to account for such results as erosion and the distribution of the drift. He felt that ‘* the condition of a continent gradually elevated from the ocean, whether by volcanic action or by the expansive force of erystallization, or by any other cause whatever, would be such as to

<<<Page: 416>>>

account for all the geological phenomena hitherto attributed to the mechanical action of water.” The formation of such terraces as Hitehcock had described in the valley of the Connecticut he thought might be due to the action of waves and tides. He regarded it as idle to suppose that existing streams have carved out their own channels, and ridiculed the idea that the falls of Niagara were once at Lewiston, seven miles below their present position, as had been contended by the English geologist, Bakewell.
He also decried all attempts at estimating the age of the falls or the time before they would so far cut back as to drain Lake Erie. It was his idea that the channel below the falls was cut while the rocks were being slowly raised above the level of the great inland sea and forming a limestone ridge or reef across which, at its lowest points, strong currents would alternately sweep during the ebb and flow of the tides. As the elevation progressed the currents would become more and more confined to the weakest and lowest points in the barrier, until in course of time the whole force of the conflicting currents would be concentrated at one point. ‘*The power of the waves and the influx of the tide operating from below would be applied to the best possible ~advantage in tearing up the strata which most impeded their course, while the current, combined with the receding tide, would carry off the fragments. In this manner the valley of the Niagara was doubtless formed.” (See Hall’s views, p. 384.)
The lake beds of the region he imagined to have been formed by the unequal erosion along the edges of uplifted strata, Lake Erie lying at the junction of shale and limestone. Before this limestone had become sufficiently elevated to shut out the sea from the basin now occupied by the lakes he conceived a strong current to have set in through the Gulf of St. Lawrence, finding its way through the valleys of the Mohawk and Hudson, and dropping on its course the largé quantity of bowlders foreign to the localities now so plentifully distributed over the surface.
As early as 1823 Governor Woodbury, in his message to the State legislature of New Hampshire, had recommended an agricultural survey, having particularly in mind chemical investigations of the various Bi eneoa i Hee kinds of soils. It we 8 not, however, until 1839 that, New Hampshire, under the earnest solicitation of Governor Page, a
geological and mineralogical survey was organized, and Dr. C. T. Jackson placed at its head. This survey continued for three years, receiving annual appropriations of $3,000 to cover all expenses. The final report appeared in the form of an octavo volume of 375 pages, with two plates of colored sections and an uncolored map of the State on which the various formations, or, rather, rock types, were indicated by numbers. The localities of useful minerals, peats, etc., were also indicated, as were the dip and strike of the more

<<<Page: 417>>>

important rocks. J.D. Whitney served as assistant in the laboratory of the survey.
As with other of Jackson’s reports, this work contained scarcely anything of a theoretic or advanced nature, although he did suggest that the apparent dipping of the Vermont marble beds under the Green Mountains might be due to ‘*a folding or doubling back of the strata, which may curve around and pass down toward the shores of Lake Champlain, where the same strata may be composed of marine shells.” He noted also that the secondary rocks must at some time have been horizontal and formed a continuous deposit extending entirely across the region now occupied by the White Mountains. If, however, the seeondary strata were to be restored to their original horizontal posi-tion, he found an insufficiency of materials to cover the gap left by the removal of the primary rocks composing these mountains. This he would ascribe to the breaking up of the secondary rocks at this point through the sudden elevation of the primaries and a more or less altering of the same by heat.
It was Jackson’s idea, as set forth in this: report, that highly inclined stratified rocks could have been made to assume that position only by some distorting cause other than aqueous action. This cause he conceived to be ‘ta deep-seated power residing in the interior of the crust of the globe,” the power itself being furnished by the ‘‘oreat caldron of molten rocks and pent up gases and steam, there being no more difficulty in our conceiving of the adequacy of this force than in the prodigious power of steam in moving the enormous engines” daily seen in operation. He conceived that a better idea of this power might be gained if one ‘‘look to the dimensions of the earth’s great boiler, and consider the comparative thinness of its sides.” Volcanoes he devoutly referred to as safety valves which prevented a general upbursting of volcanic fires, and ‘* hold all in the most perfect order, and preserve the earth in safety.”
His views regarding the glacial drift would seem to have undergone no appreciable change since 1839, although perhaps somewhat differently expressed in the later reports. He wrote of this drift as due to the ‘Socean waters and seas of ice from the polar regions having been hurled with violence over the surface of the northern hemisphere during a period of shallow subsidence.” The drifting of bowlderladen icebergs would account for the glacial strive, but the glacial theory of Agassiz he looked upon as quite insufficient and absurd. — It is to be noted, however, that his only conception of glaciers was that of mountain glaciers of the Swiss type, the onetime presence of which was disproved by the nonradiating character of the drift and strie. This glacial flood to which he now appealed, however, was not regarded as contemporaneous with the Noachian deluge, but as having occurred before the advent of man.

<<<Page: 418>>>

He recognized the plant origin of the coal beds, considering them as products of growth in low, moist, and warm bogs, which were at no great height above sea level, and which were frequently subjected to slow and gradual submergence and reelevation, in this following the other authorities of the day.
In 1837 there was organized a State geological survey of Michigan, the sum of $3,000 being appropriated for the carrying out of the work the first year, the amount being increased to $6,000, $8,000, and
$12,000, respectively, for each of the three succeeding micheal york in years, which limited the life of the organization. Douglass Houghton, then not 30 years of age, was made State geologist, and during his term of office issued five annual reports, the last bearing date of 1842. His chief assistants were Bela Hubbard and C. C. Douglas. During the winter of 1837-38 the survey was reorganized with particular reference to provisions for zoological, botanical, and topographical departments, and additional assistants were appointed to take charge of these branches of the work.
In his first annual report, a document of 37 pages, Houghton noted the geological features of the Lower Peninsula, classifying the formations under the heads of upper sand rock, gray limestone, and lower sandstone or gray wacke group, lying for the most part in nearly horizontal positions. The sandstones of the Upper Peninsula were regarded as ; ae belonging to the Carboniferous series.“
Wid! 8U—Bela Hubbard: In his second annual report he detailed the topographical and general character of the northern portion of the peninsula, with special remarks upon the clays, marls, and gypsums. He devoted considerable attention to a consideration of the change of elevation in the waters of the Great Lakes, which were then at a higher point than had been known for many years. Many rather startling and mysterious reports had been previously circulated regarding the abrupt change in the level of the water of the lakes, and hence Houghton’s report at this time was of particular significance. His conclusions were to the effect that the entire series of changes were due to periods of increased rainfall.
A special report on the State salt springs was also submitted at about this time. In this Houghton announced that he had visited the salines of Pennsylyania, Virginia, and Ohio with the view of acquiring information to guide his procedure, and had commenced the boring of two wells—one on the Tittabawassee, near the mouth of Salt River, and
“Now regarded as Cambrian.

<<<Page: 419>>>

the other at Grand River, a few miles west of Grand Rapids. Both wells, it may be stated, have proved failures, owing to the weakness of the brine.
The third annual report, of L11 pages, contained a description of the topography and geology of the portion of the Upper Peninsula bordering on Lakes Michigan and Huron, together with notices of the coal, iron, stone, and bog ores of the southern peninsula. The rocks of the Upper Peninsula were classified as primary and sedimentary, the latter being subdivided into a lower lime rock and shales and upper lime rocks.
The fourth annual report, 1841, was given up largely to articles by Doctor Houghton on the topography, geology, and mineralogy of the country bordering Lake Superior. This contained also a description of the mineral veins of the trap and conglomerate. Although not so stated here, it may be well to remark that Houghton regarded the copper-bearing veins of the Lake Superior region as fissure veins filled from below by the metal ina state of vapor or of compounds having their origin from copper in the native form.
The fifth annual report was limited to but six pages, owing to the fact that the appropriations by the legislature were curtailed, the country suffering under pressure of a financial crisis. Houghton was not, however, content to drop the work, and in 1844, in connection with W. A. Burt, devised a plan for connecting the linear surveys of the public lands of the United States with the geological and mineralogical survey of the country. This plan was fully set forth in a paper prepared and read by him before the Association of American Geologists at Washington in that year. Under the recommendation of the General Land Office Congress appropriated funds for the purpose, and Doctor Houghton was appointed to undertake the work. According to the plan thus agreed upon Mr. Burt was to take charge of running the township lines of the Upper Peninsula, the subdivisions to be made by deputy surveyors, and Doctor Houghton was to have the directorship of the entire work. The rocks crossed by lines were to be examined, and observations made as to the general geological and topographical features of the country. The system had been fairly organized and the field work of one season nearly completed when, on the 13th of October, 1845, Doctor Houghton met his death by drowning during a snowstorm, while making his way in an open sailboat along the west shore of Lake Superior.
Houghton graduated in 1828 at what was then America’s chief train-
ing school for geologists, the Rensselaer Polytechnic Sketch of Houghton. Institute, and was almost immediately appointed assistant to Professor Eaton. In 1830, having but just attained his majority, he delivered a course of lectures at Detroit on chemistry, botany, and geology, an example no man of several times his

<<<Page: 420>>>

age would care to follow to-day unless quite regardless of his reputation. But such was the condition of knowledge at that time. In 1831 he entered upon the practice of medicine, and soon after received the appointment of surgeon and botanist to the expedition under Schoolcraft for the discovery of the sources of the Mississippi. His’ public career as a scientific man began, therefore, with that date.
Houghton is described by his biographer“ as a man of rather small stature, with hands and feet small and delicately formed; head large and well developed; with blue eyes, well sheltered underneath massive brows, and showing upon his ears, nostrils, and mouth scars from an accidental explosion of powder, which took place during some of his boyish experiments. In early life he had suffered severely from a hip disease which had left one leg a little short, though not sufficiently so to cause him to limp. His temperament was warm and nervous; his movements quick and earnest. Young, ardent, and generous toa fault, he seems to have made friends wherever he went, and soon became the most prominent and popular man in the State.
Everywhere his ability and energy were acknowledged. No name throughout the distant and rural districts was so often uttered. His daring, his generous acts, his good humor, his racy stories were repeated everywhere. * * * Every man seemed to feel a pride in the growing celebrity of Houghton, and the familiar epithets ‘‘ The little doctor,’? ‘‘Our Doctor Houghton,’’ ‘‘The boy geologist of Michigan,”’ became common throughout the State.
«@Alyah Bradish, Memoir of Douglass Houghton, Detroit, 1889.

<<<Page: 421>>>

The fever for State surveys, so prevalent during the last decade, would seem to have very quickly subsided, since during the period now under consideration such were established only in Alabama, South Carolina, and Vermont. Governmental surveys were also few, being limited to those by D. D. Owen in the Chippewa land district, and Jackson, Foster, and Whitney in the Lake Superior region.
The cause of this sudden cessation is not quite apparent. Nine of the twenty-six States forming the Union at the beginning of the decade had, so to speak, escaped the contagion, and only the three above mentioned succumbed during the period, leaving Arkansas, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Missouri still unprovided for. It is possible, and perhaps probable, that the period of great financial depression beginning in 1836 may have had something to do with it, but as nine of the sixteen inaugurated during the decade 1830-1840 were established either during 1836 or the three years immediately following, this is perhaps open to question. An important factor may have been the lack of geologists to agitate the subject and carry on the work, nearly every man of prominence and experience being engaged in surveys and organizations already under way. The period was, nevertheless, one of importance, one of manifest results rather than of organization and preparation.
The single event of greatest consequence during the decade was the appearance of the four quarto volumes constituting the final reports of Mather, Emmons, Hall, and Vanuxem of the New York survey, an event which would, however, have been paralleled by the reports of Rogers in Pennsylvania but for the dilatoriness of the State authorities. The volume of literature was naturally greater than at any, previous period, since it included many of the reports of organizations of the previous decade, as those of Percival in Connecticut (1842), Booth in Delaware (1841), Jackson in New Hampshire (1844) and Rhode Island (1840), and Rogers in New Jersey (1840). The establishment of a geological survey of Canada in 1841, the coming of Lyell to America in the same year, the publication of his ‘* Travels” in 1844, and the coming of Agassiz in 1846 should also be mentioned. The most. noted of the participants in the events of the decade, as will be seen, were H. D. Rogers, then in full vigor; Edward Hitchcock,

<<<Page: 422>>>

mature and conservative; D. D. Owen, by all means the leader in reconnaissance work, and W. W. Mather. James Hall was rapidly forging to the front among paleontologists, while J. D. Dana, in the full flush of early manhood and fresh from the experiences of the Wilkes expedition, began the important series of papers dealing with the grander problems of earth history which soon placed him foremost in the ranks of American geologists and, indeed, among the geologists .of the world.
Among the names which were to appear prominently in the decade will be found those of E. T. Cox, Ebenezer Emmons, J.-P. Lesley, F. B. Meek, B. F. Shumard, Michael Tuomey, and J. D. Whitney.
Geology, at the opening of the decade, had found a place in the curricula of the leading colleges of the land, as at Bowdoin, in Maine; Amherst and Williams, in Massachusetts; Yale, in Connecticut: the Rensselaer Institute, in New York; the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville; the University of North Carolina, at Chapel Hill, and the College of South Carolina, at Columbia.
The Smithsonian Institution came into existence also during this period. The National Institute for the Promotion of Science and the Society of American Naturalists and Geologists were formed at the very beginning of the decade, the last named to be in 1847 merged into the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The retrospect was pleasing, the prospect encouraging.
In 1840 an immense stride in the study of the drift deposits was made through the publication of Louis Agassiz’s Etudes sur les Glaciers, a work comprising the results of his own study and observations com-
bined with those of Jan de Charpentier, E. T. Venetz, Se gr ne be Ge es a he swork ayas published in both
French and German and brought to a focus, as it were, the scattered rays with which the obscure path of the glacial geologist had been heretofore spasmodically illuminated. But libraries in America were few and far between, the workers were poor, and many remained long in ignorance of the existence of the treatise or gained but a partial and imperfect idea of its contents through hearsay or brief reviews in periodicals.
The prevalent ideas on the subject of the drift have been from time to time given in these pages. It was Agassiz’s idea, based upon obserrations in the Alps and the Juras, and what was known regarding existing conditions in northern Siberia, that at a period geologically very recent the entire hemisphere north of the thirty-fifth and thirty-sixth parallels had been covered by a sheet of ice possessing all the characteristics of existing glaciers in the Swiss Alps. ‘Through this agency he would account for the loose beds of sand and gravel, the bowlder clays, erratics, and all the numerous phenomena within the region described which had heretofore been variously ascribed to the Noachian

<<<Page: 423>>>

deluge, the bursting of dams, the sudden melting of a polar ice cap, or even to cometary collisions with the earth.
Agassiz’s ideas were favorably received by the majority of workers in Europe and Great Britain, though there was naturally a highly commendable feeling of caution against their too hasty acceptation. As a reviewer in the American Journal of Science has put it:
These very original and ingenious speculations of Professor Agassiz must be held for the present to be under trial. They have been deduced from the limited number of facts observed by himself and others and skillfully generalized; but they can not be considered as fully established until they have been brought to the test of observation in different parts of the world and under a great variety of circumstances.
The effect of the publication was, however, soon apparent in Amerjean literature. Thus, in 1839 James Hall, then a young man of 28 and just coming into prominence in connection with the geological survey of New York, had, with all the confidence of youth, written upon the glacial deposits as they had come under his observation. Such he regarded as due to water action, but to the action of opposite and conflicting, rather than single, uniform currents. The great extent of the deposits and the evidence of Jong-continued wear shown by their materials proved to him that the force which produced them was not violent and sudden, but continued for an indefinite period.
Four years later (1843) Prof. Charles Dewey, writing on the striz and furrows on the polished rocks of western New York, argued that, while the bowlders of the drift indicated that a mighty current had swept from north to south, the polishing and grooving might be due to glaciers as described by Agassiz.
Glaciers or icebergs and the strong current of waters—a union of the two powerful causes—probably offers the least objectionable solution of those wonderful changes.
Though disposed thus to accept in part Agassiz’s conclusions, Dewey yet failed to realize their full possibilities. He could not conceive how it was possible fora glacier to transport sandstone bowlders from the shore of Lake Ontario to the higher level of the hills to the southward. Bowlders of graywacke removed from the hills in the adjoining part of the State of New York and scattered throughout the Housatonic Valley furnished a like difficulty, since between the place of origin and that of deposit lay the Taconic range of mountains. “Tf,” he wrote, ‘‘the bowlders were once lodged on the glacier, the ice and bowlders must have been transported by a flood to waters over the Taconic Mountains.” The Richmond bowlder train, concerning which we shall have something to say later, was likewise a source of difficulty in his acceptation of Agassiz’s theory.
At the April, 1841, meeting of the Society of American Geologists and Naturalists Mr. R. C. Taylor exhibited and described in detail a model of the western part of the southern coal field of Pennsylvania. This he stated to be the first model constructed in the United States.

<<<Page: 424>>>

Such being the case, it is worthy of remark that he regarded the then customary (and to some extent still prevailing) habit of exaggerating poeta ies the vertical relief as “a hideous burlesque upon the eee actual aspect of the district represented or, rather,
misrepresented,” and that he had himself ‘* for some time ceased to make any such difference between the horizontal and vertical scale.” Taylor, it should be noted, was particularly active during the period 1831 to 1839, his papers relating almost wholly to economic problems and appearing largely in the Transactions of the Geological Society of Pennsylvania. His most pretentious publication was that entitled Statistics of Coal, a volume of 754 pages relating to the coal fields of the world, published in 1848.
Troost’s sixth annual report as State geologist of Tennessee, a pamphlet of 48 pages, was made in October, 1841; his seventh, of 45 pages, in 1843; the eighth, of but 20 pages, in 1845; and the ninth and last in 1848. During the interval between his fifth and sixth reports he had become acquainted with the work of Sedgwick and Murchison in England, and the result is a slight modification of his views regarding the rocks of Tennessee. He now announced the conclusion that those rocks west of the line which separated Tennessee from the State of North Carolina, and previously classified by him as transition under the names of graywacke, ete., belong to Sedgwick’s Cambrian system. The range known by the name of Bays Mountains, which extends into Tennessee for about 100 miles in a northeast and southwest direction, he believed to terminate this system toward the west. A few pages farther on he, however, thrust a doubt on this determination by writing:
Troost’s Work in Tennessee, 1841.
ITconsider * * * that Bays Mountain forms the upper part of the Cambrian system or that it perhaps belongs to the Old Red Sandstone; that thence toward the north of that mountain chain another formation commences, which is the Silurian system of Murchison.
To which of his particular subdivisions they should belong he was in doubt. He felt, however, it was possible they might be the equivalent of Murchison’s Llandeilo flags (Upper Cambrian).
The oolitic limestones and siliceous strata toward the west of the Cumberland Mountains he thought to rest upon a continuation of the Silurian system, more generally known under the name of ‘** mountain limestone.” This he made to extend over the whole of middle Tennessee to a few miles east of the Tennessee River.
In his seventh annual report he announced that the region about Nashville was composed of strata belonging to the Silurian system, and mentioned the fossils which he considered as characteristic of the lowest strata. In this report he gave a detail colored geological map of Davidson, Williamson, and Maury counties.
Troost’s collection of fossil Echinodermata containing all his types and species described in what is known as Troost’s list of 1850,

<<<Page: 425>>>

together with the unfinished manuscript relating thereto, passed after his death in 1850 into the custody of the Smithsonian Institution, by which it was handed over first to Agassiz, and several years later to James Hall, to be put into shape for publication. For reasons unknown to the public this work was delayed year after year, until, after the death of Hall, in his turn (in 1894), it once more came into the possession of the Institution. In the meantime all that was new had been elsewhere described. Thus, through sheer neglect, Troost was robbed of much of the credit to which he was justly entitled.
In 1842 Dr. Edward Hitchcock read an important paper before the Boston meeting of the American Association of Geologists on the Phenomena of the Drift in North America, which is particularly interees esting at this time as showing the gradual evolution of eapmomena in: | the present theory from that of the Noachian-deluge idea advocated by earlier writers. Hitchcock’s views had, of course, been influenced by those of such men as Charpentier, Agassiz, Buckland, and Murchison, and he expressed at the outset the conviction that nearly all geologists would ‘‘agree in the principle that the phenomena of drift are the result of joint and alternate action of ice and water.” To express this joint and alternate action he made use of the term ** glacio-aqueous.”
In this paper Hitchcock devoted some 50 pages to a description and discussion of, first, transported bowlders; second, smooth, polished, and striated rocks; third, embossed rocks; fourth, valleys or erosion; fifth, moraines; sixth, detritus of moraines; seventh, deposits of clay and sand; eighth, contortions of the stratified deposits; ninth, terraced valleys; tenth, fractured rocks; and eleventh, organic remains, after which he proceeded to discuss the theories of the various European authorities and state his agreement or objections to the same. He objected to the theory of Lyell to the effect that the results observed by him in North America were produced by floating icebergs derived from glaciers formed on mountains as the land gradually emerged from the ocean, because, first, it failed to account for the lower temperature which was necessary; second, because there was no evidence that the glaciers descended from the mountains; and third, because the deposits of vegetable matter derived from land plants showed that the continent must have been above sea level long before the drift period. The theory of De la Beche, which supposed the contents of the northern ocean to have been precipitated over the countries farther south by the elevation of the polar regions, Hitchcock regarded as possibly applicable to the low countries of Europe, but not to New England, since it would require a rise of the ocean amounting to some 6,000 feet, and he could find no facts to justify such an assumption, although recognizing the fact that the aqueo-glacial agency had operated well over the summits of the White Mountains.

<<<Page: 426>>>

To Agassiz’s theory, which supposed an immense accumulation of ice and snow around the poles during the Glacial period and a consequent sending out of enormous glaciers in a southern direction, followed by floods of water and transportation of icebergs on return ofa warmer period, he likewise took exception, since he was unable to conceive how such effects could be brought about; nor, indeed, could he understand how such causes could operate when the land was rising from the ocean and the water consequently retreating, as it must have been, to account for the various observed phenomena— such phenomena as would necessitate the occurrence of water loaded with ice and detritus floating for centuries at least over a large part of the earth’s surface.
He likewise objected to Maclaren’s ‘*ingenious amalgamation” of Lyell and Agassiz’s theories, but failed himself to suggest one perfectly satisfactory.
His paper showed a very clear insight into what had taken place, but an inability, with the information at that time available, to account for it in a satisfactory manner. Thus, in describing the strive found by himself on the top of hills and mountains like Monadnoc, he wrote:
Could immense icebergs have been stranded on the northern slope of the hills and afterwards, by the force of currents, have been driven over the summits; or would it be necessary to suppose that, after the stranding, the water must have risen so as to lift up the iceberg; or would a vast sheet of ice lying upon the earth’s surface, by mere expansion, without the presence of water, have been able to produce the smoothing and furrowing in question?
He regarded the moraines as deposited by floating icebergs and the linear forms observed as identical with the osars of Sweden. The fine blue stratified clay, often overlaid by sand, so characteristic of the upper valleys of the rivers in the glaciated areas, he regarded as silt deposited in temporary lakes formed by the damming of valleys by drift materials. After considering the phenomena as observed by himself and weighing all the theories advanced from time to time by the authorities quoted, he summed up the matter in the following words:
Is it not possible that the phenomena of the drift may have resulted from all the causes advanced in the theories under consideration. * * Ifeel * * * thatthe proximate cause of the phenomena of drift has at last been determined, namely, the joint action of water and ice.
This is true Hitchcock conservatism.
In 1842 an expedition under Captain Powell was: sent out by the Secretary of the Navy to survey Tampa Bay, Florida. Through the
influence of the National Institute, in Washington, rads yoxin TA. Conrad was allowed to accompany the party for
the purpose of examining into the geology of the region. Conrad remained on the coast some three months, his results being published in the American Journal of Science for 1846.

<<<Page: 427>>>

From paleontological evidence Conrad was led to consider the limestone of the Savannah River in Georgia between Savannah and Shell Bluff as Upper Eocene, and thought that very probably the prevailing limestone of Florida would be included in this division. He also found evidence to lead him to believe that a considerable post-Pliocene elevation of the whole Florida peninsula had taken place, and that the Florida keys were a product of this movement.
At the fourth annual meeting of the Association of American Geologists and Naturalists D. D. Owen read a paper on the geology of the Western States, including under this designation the region of the
Ohio Valley. Abstracts of this paper appeared in the Gcelogearthe © American Journal of Science for 1843. At the NovemSauer ates ber (1842) meeting of the Geological Society of Lon-
don Mr. Lyell presented for Doctor Owen the same paper, which was afterwards published in the journal of that society under date of 1846. It seems proper, therefore, that this paper should receive consideration here, particularly since Owen attempted a correlation of the American rocks with those: from Europe. As published, the paper was accompanied by a colored geological map
SSS ~ LE 2 SS Ont o 2 7 ty = SEE ZZ Zp Zz Yl
Fic. 32.—General section across the Western States. (After D. D. Owen.) 5, diluyium; 4, marl and
greensand, probably cretaceous; 3, bituminous coal formation; 2, carboniferous limestone of Europe; 1, probable equivalents of the Silurian rocks.
of the Ohio Valley and the generalized section shown in fig. 32. The attempts at correlation, it should be noted, were founded on paleontological data. The limestones immediately underlying the coal (38 of the section) he considered to be the equivalent of the European Carboniferous. These rested upon a series of rocks, the upper one hundred feet of which Hall had assigned to the Devonian. The middle and lower beds Owen regarded as the equivalent of the English Upper Ludlow, as defined by Murchison. Below this he found shales which he believed to be equivalent to the English Lower Ludlow and the New York Marcellus shale. The shale-bearing rock he regarded as the equivalent of the Wenlock formation of Murchison.
The fundamental rocks of the Ohio Valley he considered as the equivalents of Murchison’s Lower Silurian, the lower 75 to 100 feet corresponding to the Llandeilo flags and the rest to the Caradoc sandstones. The corresponding formations of New York appeared to be the Trenton limestone and shale, representing the older series, and the Salmon River and Pulaski sandstone, the rest.
Perhaps the most important outcome of the geological surveys of Pennsylvania and Virginia and certainly, from a strictly scientific 24
NAT Mus 1904

<<<Page: 428>>>

standpoint, (he most important and far-reaching conclusions, were those
H. D. and W.B. put forward by W. B. and H. D. Rogers in a paper pee are read before the Association of Geologists and Natural-
Structure, 1842. ists in 1842, entitled On the physical structure of the
Appalachian chain as exemplifying the laws which have regulated the elevation of great mountain chains generally. They called attention to the fact that the chain consists of a broad zone of very numerous ridges of nearly equal height, characterized by their great length, narrowness, steepness of slope, evenness of summit, and a remarkable parallelism. They divided the chain on topographical and structural grounds into nine distinct divisions, consisting of alternating straight and curved portions. They noted the remarkable preponderance of southeastern dips throughout the entire length, although the general trend of the chain was northeast and southwest. This was particularly characteristic of the portion along the southeastern or most disturbed portion of the belt, but toward the northwest dips in the opposite direction became less steep and more numerous.
They accounted for the phenomena of these dips by assuming them to be due to a series of unsymmetrical flexures, presenting in most instances steeper or more rapid arching on the northwest than southeast side of every convex bend; and, as a direct consequence, a steeper incurvation on the southeast than northwest side of every concave turn; so that, when viewed together, a series of these flexures has the form of an obliquely undulating line, in which the apex of each upper curve lies in advance of the center of the arch. On the southeastern side of the chain, where the curvature is most sudden, and the flexures are most closely crowded, they present a succession of alternately convex and concave folds, in each of which the lines of greatest dip on the opposite sides of the axes approach to parallelism and have a nearly uniform inclination of from 45° to 60° toward the southeast. This they described as a doubling-under or inversion of the northwestern half of each anticlinal flexure. Crossing the mountain chain from any point toward the northwest, they noted that the form of the flexures changes; the close inclined plication of the rocks producing their uniformly southeastern dip gradually lessens, the folds open out, and the northwestern side of each convex flexure, instead of being abruptly doubled under and inverted, becomes either vertical or dips steeply to the northwest. Advancing still farther in the same direction into the region occupied by the higher formations of the Appalachian series, the arches and troughs grow successively rounder and gentler, and the dips on the opposite side of each anticlinal axis gradually diminish and approach more and more to equality, until, in the great coal field west of the Allegheny Mountains, they finally flatten down to an almost absolutely horizontality of

<<<Page: 429>>>

the strata at a distance of about 150 miles from the chain of the Blue Ridge or South Mountain.
This work, so far as it relates to the structure of the chain, has been improved upon in recent times only by the discovery of enormous overthrust faults in the southwestern portions. Their ideas regarding the origin of the chain have not, however, so successfully withstood the work of the modern physicists. They assumed that this difference in the dips was due to a combined undulatory and tangential movement of the earth’s crust, which was propagated from the southeast toward the northwest; that is, they regarded the various ranges composing the chain as actually stiffened waves or billows of crustal matter comparable to the waves of less viscous matter, like water or lava. Their views may be best understood by direct quotation:
We assume that in every region where a system of fiexures prevails the crust originally rested on a widely extended surface of fluid lava. Let it be supposed that subterranean causes competent to produce the result, such, for example, as the accumulation of a vast body of elastic vapors and gases, subjected the disturbed portion of the belt to an excessive upward tension, causing it to give way at successive times in a series of long parallel rents. By the sudden and explosive escape of the gaseous matter, the prodigious pressure, previously exerted on the surface of the fluid within, being instantly withdrawn, this would rise along the whole line of fissure in the manner of an enormous billow and suddenly lift with it the overlying flexible crust. Gravity, now operating on the disturbed lava mass, would engender a violent undulation of its whole contiguous surface, so that wave would succeed wave in regular and parallel order, flattening and expanding as they advanced, and imparting a corresponding billowy motion to the overlying strata. Simultaneously with each epoch of oscillation, while the whole crust was thus thrown into parallel flexures, we suppose the undulating tract to have been shoved bodily forward and secured in its new position by the permanent intrusion into the rent and dislocated region behind of the liquid matter injected by the same forces that gave origin to the waves. This forward thrust, operating upon the flexures formed by the waves, would steepen the advanced side of each wave precisely as the wind, acting on the billows of the ocean, forces forward their crests and imparts a steeper slope to their leeward sides. A repetition of these forces by augmenting the inclination on the front of every wave would result finally in the folded structure, with inversion in all the parts of the belt adjacent to the region of principal disturbance. Here an increased amount of plication would be caused, not only by the superior violence of the forward horizontal force, but by the production in this district of many lesser groups of waves interposed between the larger ones and not endowed with sufficient momentum to reach the remoter sides of the belt. To this interpolation we attribute, in part, the crowded condition of the axes on the side of the undulated district which borders the region where the rents and dikes occur, and to it we trace the far greater variety which there occurs in the size of the flexures.
The date of the Appalachian uplift they put subsequent to the formation of the Coal Measures, as being the final paroxysmal movement which terminated ‘‘in that stupendous train of actions which lifted the whole Appalachian chain from the bed of the ancient sea.”

<<<Page: 430>>>

Sole REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.
At this same meeting of the Association H. D. Rogers gave an important paper on the origin of the coal beds. He here took the ground that the singular constancy in thickness of the Pittsburg cs a ep coal bed and its prodigious range were strongly Formation of Coal, adverse to any theory of accumulation by drift. His
idea was that the area now covered by the coal was once an extensive flat, bordering a continent, beyond which lay a wide expanse of shallow but open sea; that these low flats were occupied by peat bogs derived from and supporting a luxuriant growth of Stigmaria, while along the land margin and the drier areas were conifers, Lycopods, and tree ferns. The Stigmaria would thus form a uniform mass of pulpy peat admixed with leaves and other easily transported débris of the trees along the shores, but free from trunks and coarse branches.
To account for the shaly and sandy partings of the coal beds and their numerous impressions of plants, he imagined a sudden sinking of the land, producing thus a tidal wave from the open sea, carrying destruction to the forest growths, and on its return dragging back and spreading out over the sea bottom, and hence over the accumulated peat beds, sand, gravel, and silt, together with floating trunks of trees, all of which go to make up the roof slate and other partings in the beds. A period of tranquillity followed; another bed of peat accumulated, and soon. His theory differed from those of Buckland, Beaumont, Lyell, and others in excluding from the coal-making materials the trunks and branches of the more woody trees and the catastrophic interruptions in the growing processes due to earth sinkings and earthquakes.
He further accounted for the difference in volatile constituents between the coal of the eastern and western beds on the supposition that the former were debituminized by the action of steam and gaseous matter emitted through the crust of the earth and cracks and crevices formed during the undulation and permanent bending of the strata, resulting in the formation of mountain ranges.
Prof. W. B. Rogers, at this same meeting of the association, had an important paper on the connection of the thermal springs, in Virginia, with the anticlinal axes and faults. He recognized the work of the ene European geologists in connecting similar phenomena Thermal Springs, with areas of terrestrial disturbance, and then pro-
ceeded to show that, with but few exceptions, the thermal springs of the Appalachian region issue from the steep dipping or inverted strata on the northwest side of the anticlines. From this he deduced the general law that the decidedly thermal springs of Virginia issue from the lines of anticlinal axes or from points very near such lines. These views he regarded as in harmony with those of Arago and Bischoff. From those of Daubeny they differed, seemingly, in that the latter regarded such springs as indicative of volcanic

<<<Page: 431>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1840—1849. ote
eruptions going on ina covert and languid manner under certain parts of the range. But Daubeny, it must be remembered, carried his views to an extreme, regarding the uplift of the chain itself as due to these same volcanic forces.
In 1842 there appeared in the Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History a paper by J. P. Couthouy, one of the naturalists of the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, in which an attempt was made to show
that the distribution of coral growth in the ocean was Coral Grom i842, limited by temperature. This paper brought forth
very promptly a reply from Dana, who, while agreeing as to the facts and theories, claimed that he (Couthouy) had simply borrowed the idea from him; that the explanation ‘‘ was originally derived from my manuscript, which was laid open most confidentially for his perusal while at the Sandwich Islands in 1840.” The assertion was, of course, denied by Couthouy with equal promptness, but it must be confessed that the evidence, so far as it is available, favors Dana’s claim.
Dana, it should be remarked, was led, from his’ observations while on this expedition, to agree with Darwin as to the formation of atolls (annular coral reefs), but could not agree with him regarding regions of subsidence and elevation. He found nothing which to him supported the idea that islands with barrier reefs were subsiding, while those with fringing reefs were rising.
In the summer of 1842 Dr. W. Byrd Powell, of Little Rock, passed, of his own volition, some six weeks in a study of the geology of the Fourche Cove region, his results being published in a pamphlet of 23 ByrdPowell’s work Pagesand map, by the Antiquarian and Natural History eon or Athens’ Society of Arkansas. The Doctor at the time of his er writing occupied the position of lecturer on phrenology and geology. Whatever may have been his qualification in the firstnamed subject, as a geologist he was no whit above the majority of workers of his day. The rocks of the cove and their association were described in considerable detail, the prevailing syenite being called granite, although he noted that it contained no quartz. He differed with Featherstonhaugh, however, in assuming, and wrongly, that the rock was primitive and not intrusive. To a supposed transitional form of greenstone into basalt he gave the name Cornean. The other rocks noted were basaltic clinkstone, amygdaloid, gneiss, ete. Some of his observations are open to question. Less than a gill of mica from the e@neiss, he announced, yielded him half an ounce of metal, which he considered as mostly iron. He further remarked that the hornblende rocks of the region contained a large percentage of iron, which was chiefly, if not wholly, native; also that they contained native lead and a little silver.
The organization of the geological survey of the State of New York

<<<Page: 432>>>

in 1836 Hing already been noted. Annual reports were issued regularly during the period of its existence, but with one or two excepee Eats sat tions the results can be best summed up in au review of Survey oi New York, the final reports as they appeared in 1842-43. Of these final reports, which were issued in quarto form, Mather’s, comprising 639 pages, with 46 plates, in part colored, and including a geological map, was one of the most voluminous.
The first geological district, to which Mather was assigned, embraced twenty-one counties, extending from the northeast of Washington County between lakes Champlain and George southwesterly to the
Susquehanna River so as to include the counties of Noo Ki" Washington, Saratoga, Schenectady, Schoharie, and Delaware, and all of the State east and south of this line.
Mather thought to have recognized seven periods of elevation and disturbance of the strata, exemplified in the district assigned to him. These he described as follows:
First. One preceding the laying down of the earliest fossiliferous rocks, which gave rise to the primary Highlands of the Hudson and the primary mountains of Saratoga and Washington counties. On this he found the Potsdam and Calciferous sandstones and black limestone resting unconformably.
Second. One which preceded the deposition of the Helderberg limestone, which he found lying unconformably on the upturned ear lier rocks. This manifested itself mainly in the Hudson Valley and included the Highlands and Westchester County.
Third. One subsequent to the deposition of the rocks of the Ontario division, the effects of which he thought to recognize from Green Pond Mountain through Bellevale Mountain, Goose Pond, Sugar Loaf, and Skunnemunk Mountains, and along the Shawangunk Mountains.
Fourth. One subsequent to the deposition of the Catskill division and even the coal formation. This disturbed all the pre-existing rocks in New York east of the Delaware. To it he ascribed the bending and wrinkling of the coal formations in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia. The era of disturbance was regarded as between that of the coal and the New Red sandstone.
Fifth. A period of disturbance at the end of the deposition of the Long Island division and before the deposition of the Quaternary.
Sixth. A period between the drift and Quaternary by which the land, without deformation, was lifted to about the level of the Quaternary formations. .
Seventh. A period after the deposition of the Quaternary by which alarge part of the land was lifted 100 feet above the level of the oceanic waters.
He thought, also, to recognize four periods of metamorphic agency, though, singularly enough, his metamorphism was that of contact by

<<<Page: 433>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1840-1849. Ses
igneous masses only, and hence his periods those of igneous intrusion. To the then ordinarily accepted causes of folding, elevation, and depression, as steam and elastic vapors in a high state of tension, the contraction of the earth by secular refrigeration, or the undulatory action of the fluid interior, combined with tangential foree—Mather added a fourth. He conceived that, as the earth is a cooling and shrinking body and revolving with increased rapidity owing to its diminished. diameter, the ocean, being fluid, would not immediately partake of this increased velocity, and, therefore, as the earth revolved from west to east, a current of. greater or less strength would set to the westward over the whole ocean, but strongest at the equator. The inertia of the solid mass of the interior of the globe would also cause it to press to the westward with a power dependent upon the rapidity of rotation. Given, then, lines of weakness where yielding would take place, motion and distortion or elevation might follow. If the interior were fluid and the solid exterior floating upon it, a change in the velocity would produce still stronger effects and changes of latitude of masses of the earth’s surface affected in this way would result. Evidences of this were seen in the wrinkled and folded strata.
Some 75 pages of Mather’s report were given up to a description and discussion of the phenomena of the drift. He concluded that the transport of the drift and the production of scratched surfaces were contemporaneous, the drift itself being transported in part by currents and in part by ice, itself drifted by the currents. The period of the drift and that of the Quaternary deposits were separated by a partial submergence of the land; and further, the periods of the drift were periods when the currents were stronger than at the present time. He conceived this to be due to a collapse of the crust of the globe upon its nucleus by refrigeration, causing an acceleration of the velocity of rotation, ‘‘and this a consequent disturbance of the form of equilibrium of the spheroid of rotation, which would be compensated by the flow from the polar regions and an accelerated flow of the equatorial regions.” This sudden acceleration of the ocean currents he felt would be sufticient to cause the transportation of vast quantities of detritus-laden ice from the polar regions southward.
The large amount of drift scattered over the central and northern Mississippi region he ascribed incidentally to ice-laden currents from Hudson Bay and the polar seas which, flowing over the northern part of the United States, would be met by the warm waters of the Gulf Stream, causing them to deposit their loads. The warm current flowing northward would be superimposed on the cold current, the latter continuing southward beneath it, transporting the finer materials such as now occupy the lower Mississippi Valley. It may be added that Mather’s disposition to overload and overwork the Gulf Stream is somewhat amusing. Not merely did he ascribe the glacial drift and

<<<Page: 434>>>

the New Red sandstone deposits to this agency, but he would have the entire sedimentary series of the New York system dependent on the same causes. Thus, writing of these rocks: ‘‘And we can perceive no region from which such a vast amount of mineral matter can have beén abraded and washed away * * * unless it has been brought by the equatorial and polar currents in their ceaseless flow through all time since the ocean has occupied the surface of the earth.” Again: ‘‘And these depositions seem to haye been formed in a kind of eddy produced by the meeting of the flow of warm waters of the Gulf Stream through the Mohawk Valley with the polar current through the Champlain and Hudson valleys.” To the presence of this cold polar current on the east he attributed also the comparative paucity of fossil remains in these rocks when compared with those same horizons to the west, and to the same joint action of polar and equatorial currents, the formation of the coal beds. The equatorial current, he argued, performed a circuit around from New Mexico along the tocky Mountains, a part flowing into the polar sea and Hudson Bay and the remainder through the northern part of the United States and southern part of Canada, where it again divided, one part flowing over and through the St. Lawrence Valley and the remainder over the Mohawk Valley and along the Blue Ridge around once more to the Mississippi, where it would rejoin the same stream, a polar current meantime flowing through the St. Lawrence and Hudson valleys to the valleys of the Red River of the North and the Mississippi. The meeting of these currents at particular points would produce eddies and consequent stagnation of the current. The transported organic matter, becoming water-logged, would sink to the bottom: This mode of formation, he thought, would account for the presence of tropical vegetation in the polar regions.
The white, red, mottled brown, and blue clays and variegated sands of Long and Staten islands he regarded as the geological equivalents of certain beds of New Jersey underlying the drift and Quaternary and of Cretaceous age. The materials he thought to have been derived from the breaking down of the gneissic, granitic, and other crystalline siliceous rocks which extend parallel to the Atlantic chain from Georgia to Maryland and reappear again in Connecticut and Rhode Island, extending probably into Massachusetts. This material, to him, bore evidence of transport from the southwest, and he believed the Gulf Stream, as before, to have been the transporting agent, its velocity being checked by the southward-traveling polar current. These cold currents sinking to the bottom would not be conducive to growth of animal life, and hence the beds are comparatively nonfossiliferous.
Mather believed that during the Quaternary division of time a rast inland sea occupied the basin of the St. Lawrence and Hudson valleys, and that during this time the clays and marls were laid down,

<<<Page: 435>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY— DECADE OF 1840—1849. ole
the water having only a very moderate flow; that subsequently the country was raised en masse toa height of from 300 to 1,000. feet. This elevation he conceived to have been sudden, causing strong currents to flow through the channels communicating with the ocean, depositing sand, gravel, and bowlders in their eddies. (See further on p. 394.)
He also believed that the limestones, that are frequently crystalline white and variegated marbles in the western part of Vermont, Massachusetts, and Connecticut, were metamorphosed forms of the Mohawk limestone and Calciferous sandstone; that they were, in short, rocks of the Champlain division, but much more highly altered and modified by metamorphic agency than Taconic rocks. It should be said that, while using the term ‘‘ Taconic” and describing the rocks and their distribution, Mather stated distinctly that he regarded the Champlain division and the Taconic systems as the ‘‘same rocks, the latter somewhat modified in character by metamorphic agencies.”
In deseribing the Taconic rocks separately I have yielded to the opinion of my colleagues who have considered them as interposed between the Champlain division and the primary. I can discover no evidence of any such interposition, but consider them as rocks modified by metamorphic agency and intermediate in their characteristics between the unchanged rocks of the Champlain division and those still more altered and crystalline along the eastern line of New York and in the western part of Vermont, Massachusetts, and Connecticut. (See also under The Taconic Question, p. 659. )
The trap rocks of the Hudson Palisades he looked upon as ancient lavas that had flowed through the rock fissures in dikés while this part of the continent was still beneath the waters of the ocean. These rocks and the associated red sandstones he rightly believed to be of the same age as those of Connecticut, Virginia, and Nova Scotia, though he wrongly put down the Lake Superior red sandstone as also a contemporaneous deposit.
Emmons, who had charge of the second district, presented his results in a quarto volume of 437 pages, with 17 plates and colored sections. It was during this survey that he proposed the name New York Transition system for the stratigraphic series of rocks extending from the primary up to and including the Old Red sandstone. Subsequently this name was shortened by the omission of the word trans/tion, and in this form was adopted by the other members of the survey. He classified the rocks of this system in ascending order as, first, Champlain division; second, Ontario division; third, Helderberg division; and, fourth, Erie division. ‘The first, or Champlain, division included the Potsdam sandstone, the Calciferous sand rock, the Chazy and Birdseye limestone, the Isle la Motte marble, Trenton limestone, and Loraine shales. The second, or Ontario division, included the Medina sandstone, ereen shales, and oolitic iron ore, now known as the Clinton ore, the Onon-
Emmons’s work in New York. :

<<<Page: 436>>>

daga salt and plaster rocks, and the Manlius water lime. The third included the Pentamerus lime, the Oriskany sand, Schoharie grits, and Helderberg limestone. The fourth included the Marcellus and Hamilton shales, the Tulley lime, Genesee slate, and the Ithaca and Chemung slates and grits.
He regarded the transition rocks of Essex and St. Lawrence counties as equivalent to the graywacke series of European authorities. The so-called primitive limestone—the peculiar, coarsely crystalline, serpentinous limestone occurring in Essex County—he conceived might be an eruptive rock in which the carbonic acid had been retained by the pressure of superincumbent masses, the experiment of Sir James: Hall, as he believed, bearing him out in this. The occurrence of plumbago he also regarded as favoring the igneous origin of the limestone, since plumbago is itself so often produced in furnaces..
He believed the agent of drift transportation to be water and ice. The bowlders he thought to be the work of icebergs, but he did not regard the striations and polishing as due to them, since the bottom of the ocean is not bare rock but covered by débris; and, moreover, iceberes would not move in straight lines (a point which some more recent writers have quite overlooked.) The bergs might act as agents of transportation, he argued, but not of erosion. According to his ideas, the drift-covered region was, during the drift period, depressed, the country low and connected at the north with a wide and extensive region, giving rise to large rivers, which flowed in succession over different parts of the region lying between Champlain and the St. Lawrence. These rivers were wide, shallow, and swift in some parts of their courses, and frequently found new channels. They communicated with the Atlantic on the south through the Champlain, Hudson, and Mohawk valleys. They bore along ice loaded with sand, pebbles, ete., which scratched and grooved the surface of rocks over which they flowed, and were the agents, also, of perforating the rocks in the form of potholes.
Emmons was, at this time, a catastrophist, going so far as to assert that the deep canyons in the Potsdam sandstone, like the Au Sable chasm, were ‘*‘opened by some convulsion of nature.”
It was while connected with the New York State survey that Emmons conceived the idea that a series of obscure rocks, forming a belt some fifteen miles wide along the western border of Berkshire County, and lying along both sides of the Taconic Mountains, were distinct from any of the so-called primary rocks, and lay below those of the New York system. He therefore proposed, on stratigraphic grounds, to raise these rocks to the dignity of a system by themselves, which should be called the Taconic system. Inasmuch as the controversy which arose over this new system raged vigorously for nearly half a century, the subject is considered worthy of a special chapter. (See p. 659.)
Vanuxem’s report on the third district, a volume of 306 pages, consisted of little more than an uninteresting account of the geographic

<<<Page: 437>>>



<<<Page: 438>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill.
State Geologist of New York.

<<<Page: 439>>>

distribution of the various rocks and their fossil contents. In fact, it fell short of what one would be led to expect froma New vor: Workin’ perusal of his earlier papers. His district, it should be noted, comprised the counties of Montgomery, Fulton, Otsego, Herkimer, Oneida, Lewis, Oswego, Madison, Onondaga, Cayuga, Cortland, Chenango, Broome, Tioga, and the eastern half of Tompkins.
Asa matter of petrographical interest, it may be well to note that the serpentine described by Vanuxem [first in his third annual report (1839) and last in his final volume (1842)| as occurring near Syracuse, and concerning the origin ‘of which he was then somewhat in doubt, was in 1844 described as an igneous rock, and as the only mass of the kind in the vicinity of the Salt Spring. This fact seems to have been quite overlooked by Williams in 1887, when, working with all the
-appliances of modern petrography, he showed the rock to be an altered peridotite.
To James Hall was assigned the fourth district in the New York State Survey at the close of the first season, as already noted (p. 344). This comprised fifteen counties, including all that part of the State lying
west of the parallel of Cayuga Lake and between Lake fall’s Workin New Qntario on the north and Pennsylvania on the south-
east. The area includes the least disturbed portions of the State, those portions where the rocks lie in a beautiful consecutive series, extending from the Medina up to and including the Chemung and affording means unrivaled for the unraveling of the stratigraphy of the continent. It is doubtful if, at the time this district was assigned to Hall, he himself realized its possibilities—certainly his collaborators did not. Indeed, at the time of Vanuxem’s transfer and Hall’s promotion the region was regarded as one of little promise and was willingly relinquished to the youngest and least experienced of the force.
Hall’s report, appearing in 1843, comprised 683 octavo pages, with 19 plates, including a colored geological map of the State and the United States as far west as the Mississippi River.
Hall adopted the term New York system, as suggested by Emmons, to include all the oldest fossiliferous rocks of the State, excluding the Chemung and Catskill. As defined by him it would be the equivalent of what was embraced in the transition of Werner. It likewise included Sedgwick’s Cambrian, Murchison’s Silurian, and the Devonian of Phillips, omitting the Old Red sandstone.
Concerning this he wrote:
Nowhere is there known to exist so complete a series of the older fossiliferous rocks as those embraced within the limits of the State, and for the reason that in New York, where the means of investigation are best afforded and where the whole series is undisturbed, there is manifested the most complete and continuous succes

<<<Page: 440>>>

sion, showing but one geological era for the deposition of the whole. In that era the earth first witnessed the dawn of animal life and ages of its greatest fecundity in marine organisms and the approach of the period when it became fitted to support a vegetation so luxuriant and universal, of which no modern era has afforded a parallel.
Hall, it should be noted, in this report, gave precedence to paleontological characters over all others in distinguishing the sedimentary strata, but recognized the fact that lithological characters must not be wholly disregarded, a fact to which he had previously called attention (p. 383)
Changes in the lithological features of a rock * * * which may render observations unsatisfactory or doubtful are usually accompanied by greater or less change in the nature of the fossils. In no case, therefore, are to be overlooked either of the three important facts and characters, viz: Lithological character, order of superposition, and nature of the contained fossils.
At the time of making his report Hall’s views regarding the drift were still somewhat hazy. That he did not accept Agassiz’s doctrine of a vast ice sheet is very evident. Thus he wrote:
That blocks of granite either enclosed in ice or moved by other means have been the principal agents affecting the diluvial phenomena; that they have scored and grooved the rocks in their passage and, breaking up the strata and mingling themselves with the mass, have been driven onward, carrying everything before them in one general mélée. That such may have been the case in some instances or in limited localities can not be denied, but that it ever has been over any great extent of country will scarcely admit of proof.
The erratics he felt had been dropped from time to time by ice floes and at a period apparently distant from that of the general drift.
Hall was at this time evidently a catastrophist and regarded the drift soils, terraces, and the deep valleys and water courses as due to the violent action of water, which may have been caused in part by a sudden submergence and the rapid passage of a wave over its surface. His views were, indeed, in many respects, little, if any, in advance of those held by Mitchill twenty-five years earlier. Like Mitchill, he conceived of an inland sea bounded by and held back, in this case, by the Canadian Highlands on the north, the New England range on the east, the Highlands of New York and the Alleghenies on the south, and the Rocky Mountains on the west. ‘These presented a barrier of from 1,000 to 1,200 feet above the level of the ocean until broken through by the St. Lawrence, the Susquehanna, the Hudson, partially by the Mohawk at Little Falls, and perhaps also by the Connecticut.
But, to whatever cause we attribute the phenomena of the superficial detritus of the fourth district, the whole surface has been permanently covered by water, for it seems impossible that partial inundations could have produced the uniform character and disposition of the materials which we find spread over the surface.
Hall apparently failed at first to realize the efficacy of subaerial erosion, and thought that the immense amount of denudation which had taken place in his portion of the State could only have been accom

<<<Page: 441>>>

plished beneath the ocean, when it entirely covered the surface of the country and was subject to tides and currents like the present ocean.
Thus we may conceive this whole extent of country to have been submerged beneath the ocean for a long period; and that in its subsequent elevation it has been washed by the advancing and retiring waves, which have worn the deep indentations in the limestone cliffs and broken up the edges of the strata.
Hall was born at Hingham, Massachusetts, in 1811, and studied under Eaton at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, graduating in 1832, after which be served for a short time as librarian, and was then appointed
assistant to Eaton, at a salary of $600 a year. Beg dames His first systematic work in geology was done under the patronage of Stephen Van Rensselaer in St. Lawrence County. With the organization of the State geological survey in 1836 he was appointed assistant to Emmons, but, after the withdrawal of Conrad, was placed in charge of the fourth district—
the level, uninteresting western portion of the State, which he was told was good enough for a young man of twenty-five. The region was not the western New York of to-day; roads were less numerous and _ less carefully made; exposures were rare and poor. It was necessary to wade along streams for miles to gain fragments which were to be pieced into tentative sections; the people were suspicious, fearing some new scheme for increasing the taxes; but none of these things moved him; as in later years, difficulties only increased his determination. So his is the only one of the four final reperts which deals broadly with the problems of the young science, and, though upon the contemned fourth district, it is the only one which has endured with authority and become a classic in geological literature.
Fic. 33.—James Hall.
The final withdrawal of Conrad from even
the paleontological work left Hall almost sole master of the field, which he for a time filled so completely that he came to regard it as his own, and resented fiercely any intrusion upon his domain. This resentment and his desire to gain priority in all matters relative to Paleozoic paleontology caused him at times to resort to methods so questionable as to rouse the antagonism of nearly every paleontologist in America,“ and subjected him to criticism of the severest kind. Undoubtedly a portion of the hatred and opposition to him which early became manifest was the outgrowth of that peculiar jealousy which the poet Riley has so aptly set forth in his humorous rhyme:
And I’ve known some to lie and wait,
And git up soon and set up late,
To find some fellow they could hate
For going at a faster gait.
“See Meek’s comments relative to Hall’s work in Iowa, and also statements on p367 relative to the Troost collection.

<<<Page: 442>>>

Much of it was, however, unquestionably fully justified.
His disposition to down an opponent through sheer weight of personal authority rather than by proof or argument sometimes resulted in placing him in laughable and awkward positions before his audience, but from which he always emerged unembarrassed. Thus it is told of him that at the Buffalo meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science a member rose to question a statement of his to the effect that three species of Spirifer characterized three zones of the Chemung formation, the gentleman affirming that, so far from this being the case, the three species could often be found upon one slab, indicating that they belong to the same zone. This Hall emphatically denied, and declared that if such a slab could be shown him, i. e., with the three species associated, he, Hall, would eat it. The next day such a slab was actually produced, though it is not upon record that Hall was called upon to redeem his promise.
He was a man of tremendous physical energy, whom no amount of opposition could down, and on the failure of the legislature in 1850 to make the necessary appropriations for a paleontological survey of the State he carried it on for a time at his own expense, even when this involved the sacrifice of his private means.
Stevenson would have us believe that the fundamental feature of Hall’s character was ‘‘ child-like simplicity united to self-confidence and indomitable energy.” With reference to the last-mentioned qualities no one will take exception.
Knowing what he wanted he took a direct line, with little regard for anybody or anything which might be in the way to oppose. * * * He deceived his opponents by always telling the truth, something strange to politicians, but in time they came to understand him well, and strong men sought combat simply to measure strength, as in gladiatorial contests of olden time. Almost invariably he was victorious, but victory was often worse than defeat, for it converted into life-long enemies men who before had been merely indifferent. * * * He held his place for almost two-thirds of a century through no favor of man, but solely because he refused to be displaced.
For the benefit of those who, after the science of paleontology was well upon its feet, were disposed to claim it as a branch of biology, it may be well to remark that with Hall the problems of geology were always uppermost.
His quartos on the New York paleontology are his monument, and the casual observer is liable to see in him a biologist rather than a geologist, but until his later years he was a geologist. His studies were from the standpoint of one seeking to determine relations between the physical and biological conditions in order to solve problems of correlation. The great problems of geology, not those of biology, were uppermost in his mind until less than twenty years ago. His presidential address to the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1857 (see p. 499), was so far in advance of the time as to be thought not merely absurd, but mystical, yet to-day it is recognized as one of the most important contributions to one of the most difficult problems in physical geology. Even in his later years, when biological problems

<<<Page: 443>>>

had assumed their proper importance for him, he would have resented an intimation that he was any less of geologist than before.
Fifteen quarto volumes, comprising 4,539 pages and 1,081 full page plates of fossils, stand as an enduring monument to his industry, a record which never has, and presumably never will be, surpassed in the annals of American geology.”
In 1841 Hall, fresh from his work on the geological survey of New York, made a tour through the then western State of Ohio to the Mississippi River, with a view of furthering the work of Vanuxem in
1829 relative to the identity of certain of the western Hall's Workin Ohio, formations with those of New York. Asa result, he
claimed that the rocks seen near Cleveland were ‘* perfeetly identical with those of the middle portion of the Portage group,” and that the rocks of the Chemung group, now known to be Waverly, appeared near Newbury and Akron. The Cliff limestone of the Ohio geologists he regarded as the equivalent of the Helderberg series of New York, or at least of the Onondaga and Corniferous members.” Perhaps the most important of his generalizations was the following:
From the facts here stated, the conclusion seems unavoidable that the character of fossils is, or may be, as variable as lithological characters; in fact, that the species depend in some degree upon the nature of the material among which they lived. Fossil characters, therefore, become of parallel importance to the lithological; and, in order to arrive at just conclusions, both must be studied in cornection, and localities of proximity examined. In the case of the Hudson River group of shales and sandstones, in passing from New York to Ohio the lithological character is almost entirely changed, and at the same time also the most prominent and abundant fossils are unlike those of the group in New York. More careful examination, however, reveals the fossils which characterize this group at the East, and also at the same time some obscurely similar lithological characters. Similar lithological changes, accompanied by like changes in fossils, occur in more limited districts within the State of New York. Without desiring to diminish the value of fossil characters as means of identifying strata, it must still be acknowledged that similar conditions in the bed of the ocean, and, apparently, similar depth of water, are required to give existence or continuation to a uniform fauna; and when we pass beyond the points where these conditions existed in the ancient ocean, we lose, in the same degree, the evidences of identity through successive depositions, often of very different nature; yet, at the same time, these may not have had a very wide geographical range.
«Prof. Charles Schuchert informs me that if to the above are added his miscellaneous publications in octavo the number of pages of text published during his life may safely be set down as not less than 10,000. Large as are these figures, they were, however, exceeded Hy the celebrated Bohemian paleontologist Barrande, who ‘issued during his life 18 quarto yolumes, comprising 5,568 pages of text and 798 plates of fossils, besides leaving manuscript and material for at least 10 volumes more, of which 4 haye been issued since his death.
DAt that time, the Corniferous, Schoharie, Cauda-galli, Oriskany, and the Onondaga, or Salina and Waterlime, were considered subdivisions of the Upper and Lower Helderberg.

<<<Page: 444>>>

He further wrote:
One of the most interesting changes in the products on going westward is the great increase of carbonate of lime, and the diminution of shaly and sandy matter, indicating a deeper ocean or greater distance from land. The source of the calcareous deposits is thus shown to have been in that direction, or in the southwest, while the sands and clays had their origin in the east, southeast, and northeast, producing a turbid condition in the waters of these parts during long intervals, and the formation of chemical deposits. In New York we are evidently upon the margin of this primeval ocean, as indicated in the character of the deposits as well as organic remains; the southwest unfolds to us that portion where greater depth and more quiet condition prevailed.
This is apparently the first clear enunciation by an American geologist of what are now generally recognized as well established geological principles.
It was but natural that Hall, while geologist of the fourth district of New York, should write concerning Niagara and its gorges. The views of Bakewell, Rogers, and Hayes have been already noted in rae ee these pages. Hall in his State report (1841), but more Concerning Niagara, in detail in the Boston Journal of Natural History for 1842, covered the ground in a manner much more thorough and scientific than any of his predecessors.
Hall announced at the outset his disagreement with Doctor Daubeny,” who considered that the terrace or escarpment at Lewiston was produced by a fault, as he found no evidence whatever of even the smallest disturbance.
He noted the abrupt change in the direction of the stream at the Whirlpool, and also the gravel-tilled channel extending from this point to St. Davids, but, singularly enough, failed to realize that this may have been the one-time channel of the Niagara. He felt, rather, that this ravine was excavated by the power of the waves of the sea, aided probably by a stream which may have been of very insignificant proportions.
The fact was, however, recognized that the river was at that time carving out its own channel, and the existing gorge from the falls to Lewiston was due to the same cause.
In 1841, after several years of agitation, there was established a geological survey of Canada, of which W. E. Logan was put in charge in the spring of 1842, the sum of £1,500 being appropriated for the pit Nae 34 DURORe of carrying out the work. During the season Geological Survey of 1842 Logan spent several weeks in examining porof Canada, 1842. 4 5 d ‘i Hy
tions of the coal fields of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, and made his famous section of the Coal Measures at the South Joggins, which gave the details of nearly the whole thickness of the coal formation, some 14,500 feet, including 76 beds of coal and 90 distinct Stigmaria under-clays. Logan remained at the head of this
«@ Daubeny was professor at Oxford, England. °) fo)

<<<Page: 445>>>

survey until 1869, when he resigned, to be succeeded by Selwyn (see
p549). mainly with stratigraphic and economic subjects, and in 1863 a summation of his results under the caption of The Geology of Canada (p. 517).
Among the early members of the New York Lyceum was one Issachar Cozzens, a chemist and geologist, who has left as his main claim to recognition here an octavo volume of 114 pages and 9 plates, entitled A Geological History of Manhattan or New York Island, together with a map of the Island and a suite of Sections, Tables, and Columns for the Study of Geology, particularly adapted to the American Student. This was published in 1843. The map and sections were all hand-colored, the latter somewhat gorgeously, and included, aside from those relating to New York Island proper, sections of Staten Island; one across the Palisades on the west side of the Hudson River; one from Stony Point, on the Hudson River, through Dunderberg Mountain in New York; one from Brenton Reef to Portsmouth, Rhode Island, and one of Niagara Falls, the latter showing the origin of the falls through the gradual undermining of the softer shales and the breaking down of the harder limestones above.
Issachar Cozzens’s Geology of New York, 1843.
‘YOK MON JO PURIST OY} JO B[Yorg— Fe “DIY
During this period he submitted sixteen reports, dealing
“uninnylg § ‘au0}saul7 ONIZIU dd ZL
THOA MUN FO ANVW ISI 947 JO HITHOUd
a) 2
ay 286
wo}Aargsty }0q
Syan0g
*auiquaddag g "YO0Y Z}ADNO G *AzD/§ apUajqu4oH p “SSIAUD E “azUalg G ‘ajiun4g | “Yae4Q janhinpuazfindg 07 haazzwg ay} WoAf pun/sy uDjZZDYUDY 40 y40X may {0 UOOaAg
Battery,
i il \ 4h
*yYIOX MAN
yo AID
ey mie R te f I c S =] ¢ 4 2 B eS 2 a i=] = 5 — c " a Wah ~~ \ © M ))\ Is AMY ee, ply i Puy te, i Upp, {hi lo mld ai) tl ‘& = 5 Sa Sole teeta a + He Ge = cS s = As g = @ = 5 5 un
The rocks of Manhattan Island proper were classed as (1) granite, (2) syenite, (3) gneiss, (4) hornblende slate, (5) quartz rock, (6) serpentine, (7) primitive limestone, and (8) diluvion,
NAT Mus 1904——25

<<<Page: 446>>>

In the various sections given the vertical distances are grossly exaggerated, and the rocks piled on top of one another without any evident consideration of their original position; nor is there in the text any indication that the author considered at all the problems relating to original horizontality, uplift, and erosion. The red sandstone associated with the New Jersey traps (Triassic) he considered as Old Red, but the impressions of fossil fish that had been reported as found therein he regarded as rather from overlying beds—from *‘ one of the upper members of the Coal Measures which lie above it.” The Triassic conglomerate of Maryland and Virginia was also incidentally referred to the Coal Measures. This seems a little strange when we consider the previous work of his collaborators, Redfield and Hitchcock.
It is stated in his preface that the work was first undertaken for his own amusement and study, and it is possible that his influence can not be gauged simply by this one publication.“
In 1843, also, there was published by Byrem Lawrence a geological mapand descriptive pamphlet of the Western States. This was designed for popular use, and was claimed to be the first attempt of its kind. pee ee as Mhe = Western States” at that date included nothing of the Western west of the Mississippi Valley. ‘‘The West,” he
wrote, ‘‘ has no mountains nor even hills, except such as have been produced by the action of running water * * *. The rocks here have never been broken by violence nor tilted up as in the East, but lie apparently horizontal in the sides of the hills.” The drift he described in some detail, its source recognized and its cause attributed to water and ice. ‘‘It is probable there may be some analogy between the whole matter and the icebergs of the present day.”?
In 1843, too, the noted Edmund Ruffin, agricultural surveyor of South Carolina, published a report of the commencement and progress of his survey, in the form of a small volume , pata which naturally related largely to agricultural matters. eo Se It contained, however, a list of the invertebrate fossils
of the State as then known and numerous analyses of the marls. He noted that nearly the entire country above the lower
aIn the annals of the Lyceum of Natural History for 1867, Mr. R. P. Stevens had a paper read in 1865 on the past and present history of the geology of New York Island. In this, after reviewing the work of H. H. Hayden, Maclure, Akerly, and Cozzens, he gave the results of later observations by himself in the 75 to 100 miles of artificial sections exposed since Cozzens’s time. He showed the island to be a portion of the main land of Westchester County cut off by a profound fault. The rocks enumerated were chiefly gneiss, which he considered metamorphosed Taconic, cut by granite, and interbedded with limestone.
> Lawrence is credited in Darton’s bibliography of American geology with but two very brief geological papers—on Coal in Arkansas and the Geology of Arkansas— published in New Orleans in 1851 and 1853, respectively.

<<<Page: 447>>>

fall line of the rivers was occupied by granitic rocks and their residual soils.
The first attempt at a systematic geological survey of South Carolina was inaugurated in 1844 with the appointment of Michael Tuomey as State geologist. The first report, an octavo pamphlet of 45 pages with an appendix, was submitted in November of the same year. This was devoted mainly to economic considerations, and, aside from a few notes on rock weathering, contained little of general interest. His final report, which appeared in 1849, will be noted later.
Tuomey was born in Ireland in 1805, and went to England when about 17 years of age, shortly afterwards coming to America. He first settled near Philadelphia, going thence to Maryland, where he served fora time asa tutor ina private family. He Sketch of Tuomey. entered the Rensselaer school in New York, and after
graduation went South, serving first as an engineer on a railway in North Carolina and afterwards as a teacher in Virginia. His love for natural history led him to make collections of fossils, which brought him in contact with Sir Charles Lyell, James Hall, J. D. Dana, and others, and he shared with Rogers the honor of discovering the infusorial beds near Richmond and Petersburg.
In 1844 he became State geologist of South Carolinia, as already mentioned, and, in 1847, was appointed professor of geology, mineralogy, and agricultural chemistry in the University of Alabama; in 1848 receiving in addition the appointment of State geologist. As a teacher Tuomey is represented to us as possessing in a remarkable Fic. 35.—Michael Tuomey. degree the faculty of interesting the student, those, even, who took no particular interest in the subject-matter of his lectures. His native Irish wit did much to render his lectures entertaining, especially to those who were not the victims of it, he being particularly unmerciful in his rebukes and exposures of shams and affectations.
His most important publications are his official reports on the geology of South Carolina, and his joint report with Dr. F. S$. Holmes, of Charleston, on the Pliocene fossils of that State, the latter of which appeared in 1855.
Prior to the introduction of the microscope and the study of rock structures by means of thin sections (about 1870) views regarding metamorphism, particularly such as are due to sheering stresses in the older crystallines, were naturally somewhat vague. With rocks too fine of grain to allow a determination of their structure and mineral composition by the unaided eye, only mode of occurrence could be

<<<Page: 448>>>

relied upon to give a clew to their origin, and it was not until the thin sections made it possible to sometimes trace a distinct gradation from ae tsa schistose and foliated rocks of decidedly metamorphic ME tamorph isu: aspect into massive eruptives of the same ultimate com-
: position that a feeling of doubt began to arise in the minds of observers regarding the assumed sedimentary origin of the eneisses and crystalline schists.
It was during this prematinal period, as Rogers might have termed it, that J. D. Dana came out with a suggestive paper in the American Journal of Science on the analogies between the modern igneous rocks and the so-called Primary formations and the metamorphic changes produced by heat in the associated sedimentary deposits. The conclusions arrived at were based upon observations made during the Wilkes exploring expedition, and the exciting cause of a paper at this time would appear to have been the somewhat varying views recently put forth by Lyell. .
Dana argued that: (1) The schistose structure of gneiss and mic: slate was not necessarily an evidence of sedimentary origin; (2) that some granites having no trace of a schistose structure may have had a sedimentary origin; and (3) that the heat producing metamorphism was not applied from beneath by conduction, but was rather due to heated waters of the ocean which permeated the rocks. As confirmatory of the first he called attention to the parallel arrangement of the minerals and the consequent platy structure, with a tendency to split along certain lines, which were sometimes found in voleanic and other igneous rocks. The possibility of a schistose structure due to dynamic (shearing) causes was not, however, suggested.
His argument for the possible metamorphic origin of certain granites was based upon the fact that some of the basaltic tuffs observed by him in the Andes and in Oregon had become so indurated that their fragmental origin was almost wholly obscured. He felt that if rocks of this type could be so remodeled or rehardened as to be scarcely distinguishable from the parent rock, sedimentary deposits of granitic origin might undergo a like change.
His argument against metamorphism by dry heat was enforced by calling attention to the low conducting power of stone, which is such that heat, even to the point of fusion, may be transmitted only a few inches. ‘* Lavas may be heated toa red heat within a yard of the surface and still be so cool above that the bare foot may walk upon them.” He believed that subterranean waters or water on sea bottoms might become so heated by ‘* volcanic fires” as, on permeating the rocks, to bring about the metamorphism. This, of course, would mean that the gneissic rocks were not necessarily deep seated (hypogene), as held by Lyell, but analogous to other rock formations deposited and solidified ut or near the surface.

<<<Page: 449>>>

In a paper read before the fifth session of American Geologists and Naturalists in 1844, Prof. Edward Hitchcock described a trap tufa differing. from ‘‘common trap” in being conglomerate and apparently are on tae carrying organic remains. He believed that this was Connecticut Valley produced before the main ridges of trap along the of Strata, 1844. Connecticut River, by precursory outbursts of pumice, scoria, ashes, and melted matter falling over the bottom of the ocean, where it became admixed with sand and gravel. After this layers of sandstone accumulated over it, and finally the main ridges of trap were protruded through the strata, tilting them up.
He regarded the dip of the sandstone in the valley as due in part to elevation by the protrusion of the trap and in part to the lifting and lateral movements of the adjoining primary ridges. He felt, however, that the sandstone might have been originally deposited on a slightly inclined plane. This last view brings up a matter which seems often to have seriously troubled the earlier geologists, and which, so far as the literature shows, was never solved for itself, but became lost sight of as other and satisfactory means of accounting for the phenomenon were observed. This relates to the inclined position of strata—how much of it was due to original deposition and how much to upheaval. Cleaveland, it will be remembered, in his work on geology and mineralogy, 1816, expressed a doubt as to whether the inclined posi-
tion of strata was original or due to some powerful cause which had elevated them from horizontality. Maclure in 1825 suggested that the dip, so far as the transition rocks were concerned, might result from their having been laid down on a primitive floor, concerning the position of which nothing was known. Hitchcock, it will be noticed, with his usual caution, felt that both causes might have been instrumental in producing the dip observed.
At the same session at which Hitchcock read the paper noted above, Benjamin Silliman, jr., presented a report On the Intrusive Trap of the New Red Sandstone of Connecticut. His conclusions were to the effect that the sandstone was let down from suspension in water in the inclined position which it now occupies and that it had suffered no change in dip, excepting in immediate connection with the injection of the trap rocks. He considered it probable that the strata were deposited by a primeval ocean current setting from the southwest and west. Subsequent to this accumulation and consolidation the lower primary rocks were disrupted, the igneous rocks injected through the fissures and distributed along the lines of least resistance in the sedimentary strata—that is, along and up the plane of the dip, thereby lifting the strata parallel to the dip from the beds on which they had before reposed. At the same time there were produced in the upper strata fissures and transverse cracks which were filled with the molten trap. This injection he thought was probably continued during a

<<<Page: 450>>>

long period, but all referable to the same geological epoch and anterior to the elevation of the strata in which it occurred.
After the deposition and injection ceased and the elevation of the present continent had commenced, denudation, induced by a northerly current, set in, the current. itself being due to the flowing off of the oceanic waters incidental to the elevation of the present continent. By this denudation the soft shales and other materials were removed and the trap ridges developed. Thus, deposition, intrusion, uplift, and erosion were all included within a single epoch.
Early speculations regarding the origin of the earth, though largely fanciful, were founded upon the brief outline of a series of events as chronicled in the first chapter of Genesis. Theories regarding earth oem development and its probable destiny other than its Atmosphere of the catastrophic annihilation through Divine wrath, as a
punishment for sinful man, were slow to appear. When such did appear, however, they were founded upon a much more scientific basis.
That a mutual reaction was going on constantly between the superficial portions of the earth and its surrounding atmosphere was doubtless realized by all of those who wrote on the weathering of rocks and the formation of soils; but, so faras known to the present writer, H. D. Rogers was one of the first of American geologists to show by direct calculation that the earth had been in the past, as at present, robbing the atmosphere of some of its constituent parts and gradually storing them up in its solid crust.
At the Washington meeting of the American Association of Geologists and Naturalists in May, 1844, Professor Rogers submitted a communication on the probable constitution of the atmosphere at the period of the formation of the coal. He estimated that the amount of carbon existing in the atmosphere to-day in the form of carbonic acid would be only sufficient to furnish through vegetable action about 850,000,000 tons of coal, while the probable quantity of this substance in existence, all of which must have been elaborated from the ancient atmosphere, was nearly 5,000,000,000 tons; that is to say, about six times what the present atmosphere would produce. So great a reduction in the carbonic acid, implying a corresponding augmentation of oxygen, is felt to be a matter of great interest in geology, as showing that every modification in the constitution of the air had adapted it to the development of animals progressively higher in the scale of organization.
Of all the New England States Vermont was the last to become infected with a desire for a geological survey, and it was not until
“Vanuxem in 1827, while connected with South Carolina College, pointed out the probabie change in the atmosphere during geologic time through the absorption by the earth of nitrogen and oxygen, and also the probability of a warm, moist climate during the period of coal formation. (American Journal of Science, XII, 1827.)

<<<Page: 451>>>

1844 that the final steps were taken resulting in the appointment of Prof. C. B. Adams as State geologist. Adams was educated at Phillips Academy and Amherst College, and subsequently attended the theological seminary at the last-named place. In 1836 he £; B Adams's e* became a tutor at Amherst and for a brief period was assistant to Professor Hitchcock in his work on the geological survey of New York. When appointed State geologist of Vermont he selected Zadock Thompson as his chief assistant, Denison Olmsted, jr., and later T. Sterry Hunt aiding in mineralogy and chemistry. Rev. S. R. Hall, of Craftsbury, was employed to look after the agricultural features. Up to March, 1848, the survey continued in a fairly prosperous condition, a large amount of material being col‘lected, both in the way of specimens and notes, but at the session of the legislature for this year appropriations were for some reason withheld and the work stopped. Four reports in all were issued, the last amere pamphlet of eight pages.
The purpose of the survey, as stated in Mae the first report, was to collect and analyze the soil, the simple minerals, both of economic and scientific importance, and to make investigations into the character and limits of the geological formations. The reports on the whole were extremely fragmentary. Doctor Adams dying before the | manuscript of the final report was prepared, a large part of his work was lost, this mainly owing to the fact that he took his notes in a ‘‘ peculiar shorthand, which i only he could read.” As suggested by ProFOSS Na ae ORR ees fessor Thompson, it would have required more labor to decipher his notes than to go over the ground anew.
The second annual report was prepared—as was not infrequently the case at that date—in the form of a general treatise on geology, and began with an elementary chapter which dealt with all subjects relating to geological phenomena, whether applicable to the State or not. The views advanced were those given by the text-books of the period and need not be mentioned in detail. An ideal section from the first report is, however, reproduced here as illustrating equally well the rough method of picture making with which the early workers had to content themselves and the crudity of ideas relative to the earth’s crust and interior. He would, indeed, be regarded as a novice in geology to-day who would not at first glance inquire what supported the mass of solid material represented as resting upon the molten lava, yet this question does not seem at this time to have even presented itself for consideration. A little space was devoted to the subject of

<<<Page: 452>>>

the connection between geology and the Bible, to meet the wants of the ‘‘many well-meaning persons” who were disturbed by a supposed incongruity between the principles of geology and the Mosaic narrative. A very abstruse explanation of concretionary structures was offered, Adams failing, as did many of his contemporaries, to discriminate between concretionary structure as it is now understood, and certain forms assumed by igneous rocks and due to contraction in cooling. Thus he considered columnar structure in basaltic rocks as a’ peculiar form of concretion which was due to lateral pressure such as might exist between spheres compressed at the sides. ;
Agassiz’s glacial theories had been apparently without effect, even if they were known, and icebergs were considered as sufticient to account for all the phenomena of the drift.
EXPLANATIONS.—Unstratified rocks of igneous origin: G, granite; Sn, seinite; Pr, porphyry; Tp, trap rocks; Td, a trap dyke; L, lava, with a voleano, ce being fissures through which the water of the ocean penetrates to the melted lava by its conversion into steam, causing earthquakes and eruptions. Stratified rocks (represented by parallel lines) of aqueous origin: Pr §, primary strata; Tr, palaeozoic rocks, or the oldest rocks which contain the remains of animals and plants; Sec, secondary rocks; Tt, tertiary strata; D, the superficial covering of sand, gravel, and loose stones, called SOnitite 24
In 1847, the year before the closing of the survey, Adams had accepted a professorship at Amherst, and in 1853, in conjunction with Alonzo Gray, published as a text-book an Elements of Geology, a duodecimo volume of 350 pages. Here his geological work seems to have ceased. Indeed, from the date of the abandonment of the State survey he devoted himself mainly to zoology, and particularly to conchology, making large collections especially rich in West Indian and Central American forms. While at St. Thomas, on one of his collecting trips, he contracted yellow fever, from which he died in 1853. He is described as a man of sturdy build, medium height, with large, black eyes and black hair. A man of tremendous physical endurance, knowing neither fear nor what it was to be tired; but, withal, a quiet and self-contained demeanor.
Thompson, Adams’s chief assistant, is represented to us as a man poor in this world’s goods as well as in general health, and modest almost to a fault—one who from childhood had shown a passion for writing books. His first publications were almanacs, which he himself sold while traveling on foot about the country. It is told of him

<<<Page: 453>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1840-1849, 393 that when at one time interrupted by his clerk with an inquiry as to the prediction that should be made in the forthcoming issue for the weather for July, he replied somewhat testily, ‘‘ Say ‘Snow about this time.’” So it stood in the printed almanacs, as issued from the press, and, to the astonishment of all, including both printer and author, snow did fall in Vermont that year in the month of July.
The industry of the man was remarkable. He graduated from the University of Vermont at the age of 27. He published an arithmetic, a geography and map of Canada for use in the common schools; became in 1832 editor of the Green Mountain Repository; wrote a history of Vermont, whichappeared thesame year; studied theology, and took deacon’s orders in the Protestant Episcopal Church in 1836. He preached for a time and returned once more to his book writing, first publishing in three volumes a Natural, Civil, and Statistical History of Vermont; then a text-book on the Geology and Geography of Vermont; finally becoming an assistant to Professor Adams on the State survey in 1845, when his eeological work really began.
** Tall, angular, of a very quiet and sedate, yet very pleasant, manner, a man of most amiable and sweet temper, loved by all who knew hin, : ad respected for his sound sense and accurate judgment.” Such is the picture given us of him, who certainly was one of the most remarkable men of his times although his name may not stand the highest in the annals of geology.
Under the caption of ‘** Description of a singular case of dispersion of blocks of stone connected with the drift in Berkshire County, Massachusetts,” Dr. Edward Hitchcock described in the American iiccckes Journal of Science for 1845 a remarkable train of @laDescription of the cial bowlders extending from Fry’s Hill in the Canaan Tekst Mountains, of New York, southeasterly into Massachusetts for a distance of some 15 or 20 miles.
The lithological nature of the bowlders was such that they could all be traced to a common source, though described as forming three somewhat meandering trains extending from Fry’s Hill above mentioned, through the adjoining valley, and upward over an elevation of 800 feet at the State line, across the Richmond Valley and over Lennox Mountain, 600 feet in height, to and over Beartown Mountain, 1,000 feet in height.
Naturally, so striking a phenomenon excited investigation, and, naturally, too, Doctor Hitchcock, in the then existing condition of
Sketch of Zadock Thompson.
Fie. 38.—Zadock Thompson.

<<<Page: 454>>>

knowledge regarding glacial transportation, found difficulty in accounting for the same. He recognized the similarity of the trains to the lateral glacial moraines described by Agassiz in his tudes sur les Glaciers, Which had appeared five years previously, but could not conceive of a glacier traveling directly across the intervening ridges, even were the mountains in the vicinity of sufficient altitude to give rise to the same. Neither did the consideration of river drift or floating ice afford him a satisfactory
Z conclusion. ‘*In short, Ze I find so many difficulFA H é fs . Sa Zz, ly / ties on any supposition Bw | iS ea ees i which I may make that ee a — a at I = I prefer to leave the case
unexplained until more analogous facts have been observed.” Unsatisfactory and apparently unimportant as the paper may, at first thought, seem, it is mentioned here on account of the extraordinary explanation .of the phenomenon oftered by the Rogers brothers three years later (see p. 403). Inthe American Journal of Science for 1845 W. W. Mather, whose work in New York and Ohio has been already mentioned, published a paper on the physical geography of the United States in which he still further elaborated some of the interesting and rather unique ideas regarding the origin Rather ania of the secondary rocks and the elevation of islands, Physical Geology of continents, and mountain chains which he there put a forth. These may be referred to in considerable detail. Mather again argued on the basis that the earth is a cooling body, contracting, and hence undergoing an increased velocity of rotation upon its axis. The oblateness of its spheroidal form, due to the increase of centrifugal force, would therefore induce a flow of water from the polar to the tropical regions, and as the earth revolved from west to east these currents from the poles would bend more and more
Washington
Fie. 39.—Richmond Bowlder Train. (After E. Hitchcock. )

<<<Page: 455>>>

to the westward as they advanced to lower latitudes. On the other hand, the water in the Tropics, being gradually expanded through heat, would tend to flow off toward the polar regions.
These currents he regarded as having acted throughout all the time since the ocean occupied its present bed, and to them he would ascribe the mechanical distribution of many of the sediments making up the Secondary rocks. Considering only those currents that constitute the Equatorial, the Gulf Stream, and the Labrador Current in the Atlantic, he thought to show that the materials constituting the immense mass of sedimentary rocks between the primary ranges north of the Great Lakes and the Gulf of Mexico, and between the Blue Ridge and the Rocky Mountains, were deposited within the great eddy due to their
‘interference.
The red sandstone formations extending from Carolina to Stony Point on the Hudson he believed to have been formed through the transporting power of the Gulf Stream, its northward extension haying been cut off by a polar current flowing through the Champlain and Hudson River valleys. The loosely consolidated material now classed as glacial drift he seemed also to regard as having been transported and deposited through the same agency. ‘The coal beds of the eastern and central portions of the United States he regarded as formed at the bottom of the ocean in which great eddies occurred, and where plants brought from the Tropics and other sources would float and circle about until they sank. He noted that these beds were based upon a sandstone which at the outcrop of its edges on the coal basins was much coarser and sometimes a conglomerate or coarse pudding stone, while through the center of the basins it was much finer. This fact denoted to his mind a stronger current on the exterior of the coal basins than within its area.
Concerning the regions over which the polar currents were supposed to have flown, and from whence, as a consequence, were derived the materials for the sedimentary rocks, he could say little from actual observation. Drawing for his materials mainly on the writings of travelers, though acknowledging that such might be faulty, he nevertheless pictured a scene of barrenness of the entire region north of the St. Lawrence and Great Lakes and from Newfoundland to the Stony Mountains such as is equaled only by that given by H. H. Hayden in his attempt to account for the deposits of the coastal plain (p. 256).
Although the quotations from travelers lack that accurate examination that 1s necessary to a determination whether the surfaces thus described have been exposed to the action of violent and long-continued currents, yet they have their weight. When considered in connection with the effects of known physical causes, it is rendered more than probable that the currents under consideration have flowed from the polar regions toward the equator and from the Tropics toward the poles when this
continent was beneath the ocean, and that the matter which composed the deposits of the sedimentary rocks of the United States was washed away by these great equi

<<<Page: 456>>>

libriating currents from the bed of the ocean, from reefs, islands, and coasts, and finally deposited from suspension over the great area where we now find it exposed to observation.
The probable cause of the elevation of the land he thought to be secular refrigeration accompanied by contraction, whereby a gradually accumulating tension was finally overcome by a yielding of the solid strata, such being regarded as paroxysmal and productive of earthquakes. At the same time a sudden increase of the velocity of the earth’s rotation would result, and this in turn would increase the flow of the ocean currents above mentioned. .
In attempting to account for the overturned character of the folds in the mountain chains of the eastern United States, he seems to have actually outdone the Rogers brothers in fecundity of ideas. He wrote:
Paroxysmal elevation and the action of inertia offer a satisfactory explanation of the folded axes and eastwardly dip. Suppose the sudden elevation of a mountain mass one mile in height, or more distant from the axis of rotation than it was before its elevation. It would still retain the linear velocity it had when a mile nearer the axis of rotation, while the proper linear velocity at this increased distance would be %-1415 miles, or 690 feet greater per hour than that which it had before its elevation. Inertia would: therefore cause the mass at the top to press to the westward with a force proportional to its mass and the above-mentioned velocity, and at intermediate heights with a proportionally less momentum. If the strata be capable of yielding, they must, when elevated in highly curved wrinkles, tend to fall over westward as a consequence of the influence of inertia and the revolution of the earth from west to east on its axis.
Such a view from a man of Mather’s training and at this late date certainly seems extraordinary.
Commenting further on the effects of centrifugal force, particularly upon bodies of different densities, he argued that as such is greatest under the equator, any subterranean force tending to elevate portions of the earth’s surface by their elastic tension would here be most effective. In this way he would account for the supposed fact that most of the highest mountains are found within the Tropics. Reasoning along the same lines, he conceived it possible that tractures might be expected to develop in the direction of circles parallel to the equator at a distance intermediate between it and the poles, where the curyature resulting from the revolution of the earth would be greatest.
In continuation of his work begun in 1832. T. A. Conrad in 1845 issued his volume on the Medial Tertiary tormations, the general plan of the work conforming closely to those which we have already considered Gs tas aria (pp. 306, 320, and B54). In this latter work he deTertiary of North scribed these formations as occupying a shallow but
very extensive depression in the Cretaceous rocks, the most northern locality known being Cumberland County, New Jersey, whence it extended southward in a very connected series, spreading out over a large portion of the Atlantic seaboard.

<<<Page: 457>>>

The nature of the country, its strata, and fossils were described in detail. The most interesting part of the paper, from our standpoint, lies in his remarks on the theory of elevation and the age’ of the deposits. He regarded the formation of each Tertiary division and the final annihilation of its fauna as a very gradual operation, taking place in quiescent waters and having no connection with volcanic agencies or any violent movements of the earth’s crust, but merely depending on changes of temperature.
In discussing the effects of these temperature changes he showed some peculiar ideas regarding the conductivity of rock masses and the effects of cooling. The cold penetrating deep into the igneous rocks beneath the surface, he thought, would result in a maximum amount of crystallization and expansion,“ producing thereby a slight elevation of the crust. Since the cold penetrated gradually, he argued that the elevation would also be gradual, more appreciable, of course, during epochs of unusual cold. In brief, crustal elevation, he would have us believe, was induced not by volcanic agency, but by ‘‘the allpowerful and pervading influence of crystallization in the primary rocks.” In this he followed what he calls the ‘‘sublime” theory advanced by Vanuxem. The idea that the abrupt change in the character of the animal life at the close of each geological epoch by a sudden fall of temperature was, however, avowedly the theory of Agassiz.
In connection with work pertaining to the Liberian Colonization Society, in 1845-1848, David Christy traveled extensively throughout the eastern and middle United States. Being a man of active mind
David Christy’s and with a love for the sciences, he made many eeoGeological leas We lays eee Se eh SF a iservntions. ogical observations which were first embodied in a 1845-1848.
series of letters to Dr. John Locke and published in the Cincinnati Gazette. These were afterwards issued (in 1848) in pamphlet form, some 70 pages, with 5 plates of fossils and three geological sections: the first from Mine La Motte and Pilotknob, Missouri, to Hollidaysburg, Pennsylvania; the second from Lake Erie to Pensacola Bay, and the third from Richmond, Indiana, through Oxford, Ohio, to Beans Station, Tennessee.
It is impossible to say what portion of the information given in these letters can be claimed to be strictly the result of original investigation or observation. As stated by Locke in his introductory note, he ‘‘referred the geological formations to the Blue Limestone of Cincinnati as a kind of zero, informing us whether the rocks at any place are above or below that zero.” Locke further states that he knew of **no other individual who has actually drawn approximate sections of the strata from the Atlantic to lowa and from Lake Erie to the Gulf of Mexico; most of this work being the result of his own observations.”
In a letter addressed to M. de Verneuil in 1847, relative to the
“As a matter of fact, crystallization in a rock magma would result in contraction,

<<<Page: 458>>>

erratic rocks of North America, Christy showed himself to have been a catastrophist. He believed that there had been two periods of elevation of the land in the history of the continent, with an intervening submergence. The second and last emergence he regarded as having been .rapid and to have given rise to the swift currents which were instrumental in producing the drift.
In the spring of 1846, A. Wislizenus, a ‘*German by birth and an American by choice,” left St. Louis, Missouri, with the intention of making a tour through northern New Mexico and upper California
for the purpose of examining into the geography and Pherae general natural history of the country. UnfortuMexico, 1846. . ie ay ‘ é
nately for his intentions, war between the United States and Mexico broke out while he was within the jurisdiction of the Mexican Government, and he was compelled to remain within the State of Chihuahua for a period of six months or until the arrival of the American troops, when he accepted a position in the medical department and returned with it by way of Monterey to the States. |
His opportunities for observation were, naturally, much less than was at first anticipated, and his geological report, amounting to but five pages, was published as a part of Senate Miscellaneous Document No. 26 of the thirtieth Congress, first session. In this report he noted that the bluffs on the Arkansas some 341 miles from Independence were of a grayish conglomerate limestone, con-
Fic. 40.—Frederick Adolphus taining fossils which ‘*‘seemed to belong to
arate the Cretaceous formation.” Near Las Vegas he found a dark blue limestone with casts of /noceramus, which were also relegated to the Cretaceous series. Near El Paso he noted the presence of a limestone containing the fossil coral Calamopora and the bivalve shell of the genus Pfer7nea, which, as a consequence, he considered as belonging to the Silurian formation. The presence of numerous eruptive rocks were noted and an outline map published, in which the lithological nature of the rocks was indicated. The map, it should be noted, comprised the area lying between the Arkansas and the Rio Grande rivers, but extended south and west of the latter as far as Monterey and Chihuahua. The fine silt-like character of the superficial deposits fetes iaie. of the Mississippi Valley had frequently been noted by the various geologists who passed over the region, but it remained for Amos Binney, the conchologist, to give the first reasonably satisfactory account of its probable origin. At a meeting of

<<<Page: 459>>>

the Boston Society of Natural History in April, 1846, Binney exhibited a collection of fossil shells from the so-called Bluff formation at Natchez, on the Mississippi, and announced the belief that the formation was analogous to the Loess of the Rhine Valley and a result of fluviatile action rather than attributable to the glacial drift.
In 1847 J. D. Dana, who from the beginning of his career had shown a disposition and ability to grasp the broader, more profound questions of geology, came forward with two papers which were beyond ern question the most important of the year. The first of Geological Results of these had to deal with the geological results of the Contraction andthe earth’s contraction in consequence of cooling and Grand Outline : : : ore Beatures of the involved the acceptation on his part of the prevailing
theory that the earth was once in a condition of igneous fluidity. After a full discussion of the subject and the views held by others, Dana announced it as his belief that the now oceanic areas were at one time the most intensely heated portions of the crust, and had, therefore, on cooling undergone the greatest amount of contraction, and that, further, the mountain ranges and main fissures along the oceanic borders are due to this same contraction. Such a theory, he felt, did away with the almost preposterous though prevalent idea that continents and mountains have been lifted up by a force acting from beneath, a force which could not be satisfactorily located and accounted for; a theory which would not account for the mountains retaining their positions, even did it offer satisfactory explanation for their first production.
He showed, further, that the folding and faulting of the strata as described by the Rogers brothers in Virginia and Pennsylvania could be readily accounted for on the theory of a force acting laterally, and that such folds would have their steepest incline on the side farthest from the source of movement and would also be most abrupt nearest this source. The fact that such results were not in all cases uniform, he conceived as being due to variation in the thickness of the beds, to a want of uniformity in the materials, and inequality in the action of the force upon the different parts of the line along which it operated.
The geological epochs were regarded, as announced in this same paper, as perhaps due to the alternation of prolonged periods of quiet with those of more or less abrupt change, due to contraction. The idea that mountains might be produced by tides and paroxysmal movements beneath the crust (as advocated by H. D. Rogers) was set aside on the ground that such should have occurred at earlier periods, and, further, it would not account for the principal ranges in the east and west of the continent. In many of the views he here advanced Dana agreed with those previously advanced by the French geologist Prevost.
In the second paper referred to, on the Grand Outline Features of the Earth, Dana argued ‘‘ that the great chain of mountains, as well as

<<<Page: 460>>>

of islands, are interrupted ranges consisting of overlapping lines, either straight or curved, and that curves constitute an essential feature of the system.” He showed that throughout the system of outlines presented by the earth northwest and northeast lines are prevalent, ‘and that these lines are usually curved, instead of conforming to the direction of a great circle. He apparently accepted the theory that the course of mountain ranges, islands, and coast lines is attributable to the courses of former fissures in the earth’s surface, and, in discussing the electrical, contractional, and other theoretical causes, suggested that if, as claimed, curves of magnetic intensity on the earth’s surface are approximately isothermal lines, they must also be lines of equal cooling and hence of equal contraction and tension. But whatever may have been the origin of the fissures, he thought there could be no doubt but that a kind of cleavage structure, or at least capability of fracturing easily in two directions, was given the crust during its formation.
The conclusions which appear to flow from the facts that have been presented are as follows:
That the general direction and uniformity of the grand outline features of the globe may be in a great degree the simple effects of the earth’s cooling, this operation resulting in (1) solidification, and under the circumstances, whatever they were, an attendant jointed structure or courses of easiest fracture, in two directions nearly at right angles with one another, both varying according to the rates of cooling in different parts; and (2) occasioning tension in the crust through the contraction going on beneath, with some relation to circular areas, but especially to large compound areas, which tension caused ruptures conforming or not to the lines of jointed structure according as the force of tension acted in accordance with this structure or obliquely to it. (3) The age of mountains can not, therefore, be determined necessarily by their courses; a different direction in a particular region in different ages is not improbable, since the same contracting area might exert its horizontal force in somewhat different directions at different epochs, or other such areas might cooperate and exert a modifying influence; and at the same time an identity of direction for different ages was to have been expected.
Prof. James D. Dana was born in Utica, New York, in 1813, and was, therefore, practically contemporaneous with James Hall. He became a student of Professor Silliman’s in 1830 at Yale College, leaving in 1833,
somewhat in advance of graduation, to avail himself Sketch ofJ.D.Dana. of an offer to cruise in the Mediterranean, as instructor in mathematics to the midshipmen in the Navy.
The first paper in his bibliography was published in 1835 and gave an account of Vesuvius as seen by him during this trip in 1834. In 1836 he returned to New Haven, remaining for two years, the latter part of the time as assistant to Professor Silliman. It was during this time, scarcely four years after his graduation and when but twentyfour years of age, that he brought out his first System of Mineralogy,

<<<Page: 461>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 21.
Professor of Geology, Yale College.

<<<Page: 462>>>



<<<Page: 463>>>

a volume of 580 pages, and a most remarkable work for the time and the conditions.”
From 1839 to 1842 Professor Dana served as geologist and mineralogist on. the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, and for the first thirteen years after his return devoted his chief energies to the study of the material collected on the expedition and to the preparation of his reports, of which two—the volume on geology, 756 pages, 5 maps, and 21 plates (1849), and the one on crustaceans, 1,620 pages, with an atlas of 96 plates (1854)—are monumental. His labors, however, were not limited to the reports, for during the same period he prepared and issued three editions of the System of Mineralogy (1844, 1850, 1854) and two editions of the Manual of Geology (1848, 1857), besides writing numerous papers for scientific periodicals.
In 1846 Mr. Dana became an editor of the American Journal of Science, associated with Prof. Benjamin Silliman, who had founded it wenty-eight years before. His labors in connection with the Journal continued until the close of his life. In 1850 he was appointed professor of natural history in Yale College, and in 1864 the title was changed to that of professor of geology and mineralogy. His duties as instructor, however, he did not take up until 1855, but after this date, with some interruptions due to ill health, his active connection with the college continued until 1890. It is perhaps well to add that just before his appointment to Yale in 1850 he had been invited to a simiy lar position at Cambridge, Massachusetts, Fre. 41.—sames Dwight Dana. in connection with Harvard College, but by the prompt action of a generous friend in the Yale faculty in providing the necessary funds he was induced to remain in New Haven and accept the ‘‘ Silliman Professorship.”
In 1859 long-continued overwork brought a breakdown of serious cnaracter and from which he never fully recovered, and although later some degree of health came back, he was always subject to the severest limitations until the end of his life. Only those immediately associated with him could appreciate the inexorable character of these limitations and the self-denial that was involved, not only in restricting work and mental effort, but also in avoiding intercourse with other men of science and friends in general, in which he always found the greatest pleasure. Little by little
“The ‘‘System’’ has now gone through six editions, though after 1868 the work was done mainly and finally wholly by his son, Prof. E. S. Dana, now professor of Physics and Curator of the Mineralogical Collection in the same university. The last edition, that of 1892, comprises 1,104 royal octavo pages with over 1,400 figures in the text.
NAT Mus 1904 26

<<<Page: 464>>>

the power for work was restored and by husbanding his strength so much was accomplished that, besides other writing, he was able to bring out in 1862 the first edition of his Manual of Geology, and in 1864 the Text-book of Geology, and four years later his last and most important contribution to mineralogy, the fifth edition of the ‘“System.’’ This last great labor, extending over four years, was followed by a turn of ill health of an alarming character and from which restoration was again very slow.
The years that immediately followed were filled with the same quiet labor, geological investigations in the field, the writing of original papers and books, the editorial work of the Journal, and his duties as a college instructor.
They were remarkably productive years, notwithstanding the difficulties contended against, notably his renewed illness in 1874 and 1880. A large number of important papers were published, chiefly in the Journal. New editions of the Manual of Geology were issued in 1874, 1880, and 1895; of the Text-book in 1874 and 1883; while 2 new geological volume called The Geological Story Briefly Told was issued in 1875, and one on the Characteristics of Volcanoes in 1890, after his second visit to the island. A second edition of his book on Corals and Coral Islands, the first edition of which appeared in 1872, was also brought out in 1890. |
But it was not as an investigator and writer only that Dana achieved success. Asa teacher he seems to have won the respect and regard of all with whom he came in contact, and to have left on the minds of students—even those who had no taste for geology—a lasting and favorable impression. Many of his sayings in class lectures were epigraphic: ‘I think it better to doubt until you know. Too many people assert and then let others doubt.” Again, ‘‘I have found it best to be always afloat in regard to opinions on geology.”
Nor can we regard him as merely a geologist. His work on crustaceans, comprising 1,620 pages, with an atlas of 96 plates (1854), shows that equal success could have been attained in the biological field had he chosen to follow it. The mental vigor and staying powers of the man were simply extraordinary, and it is not too much to say that he stands out head and shoulders above all his contemporaries, if not above all who preceded him. His interest never flagged; no problem was too large for him to grasp, no detail too small for his consideration.
It would seem quite extraordinary that two men who have done so much for American geology, whose work was really epoch making, who, without doubt, excelled any geologists of their time in ability to H. D. andw.B. Unravel the difficult structural problems of any region, Referoed Bawider Should have been so extremely visionary in theoretical Dralnpaese: matters. The peculiar ideas of H. D. Rogers on the subject of the elevation of the Appalachians are elsewhere referred to. I wish here to notice their equally extraordinary ideas regarding the

<<<Page: 465>>>

Berkshire (Richmond) bowlder train, first brought to notice by Hitehcock (see p. 394),
According to the descriptions now @iven, the trains start, each from its particular depression in the summit of a high ridge, in Canaan, New York. Taking a direction 8, 35° E., they cross the higher ridges and
y 4 Sk x Ls Y, ag LDGE ate f ane H MAKKEENAC\\ '
Fic. 42.—Sketch map of Richmond Bowlder Train. (After E. R. Benton.)
their intervening valleys, the longer for a distance of 20 miles and the shorter for 10 miles. The individual trains are neither of them more than 300 or 400 feet in breadth, and not over half a mile asunder. The transported blocks are of all sizes up to 20 feet in diameter, sharply angular, free from scratches, and all of the same lithological

<<<Page: 466>>>

nature, identical with that of the ridge from whence they start. That such a dispersion of bowlders from a single point should have taken place regardless of contours is certainly enough to excite the interest of anyone. It is the means invoked by the two workers which have excited our wonder, however. .
After exhibiting to their own satisfaction the inadequacy of either the iceberg or the glacial hypothesis to account for their production, the authors, in a paper before the Boston Society of Natural History in 1848, attempted to show how all the phenomena might be explained by the theory of a sudden discharge of a portion of the Arctic Ocean southward across the land. They discussed the important functions of the ‘‘ wave of translation,” showed its surpassing velocity and great propulsive power, and traced the influence of vehement earthquakes near the pole in dislodging the northern waters and ice and maintaining in the rushing flood these vast and potent waves. They then suggested that, at a certain stage of the inundation, the ice, previously fAoating free, might impinge with irresistible violence against the tops of submerged hills, and that the Canaan Mountain stood precisely in the position to take the brunt of the ice-driving flood as it swept down the long, high slope of the distant Adirondack and across the low, broad valley of the Hudson.
They then proceeded to show that, at the instant when some enormous ice island struck the crest of the mountain and scooped the trench which we there behold, a great vortex was produced by the obstruction thus suddenly thrown in the path of the current, which, endowed with an excessive gyratory or spiral velocity, was capable of sustaining and carrying forward the greater part of the fragments. As in the instance of the water spout and the whirlwind, the whirlpool would gather into the rotating column the projected blocks and strew them in a narrow path in the line along which its pendent apex would drag the ground.
The paper terminated with an application of this idea in detail, to the explanation of each important feature of these trains; to their deflection from a straight line; the intermission in the bowlders at certain places in the train, and the fact that some of the blocks have been violently broken at the moment previous to their final deposition.“
Truly there were catastrophists in those days.
We may anticipate here by stating that at the meeting of the Ameri‘an Association for the Advancement of Science in 1870, Prof. J. B.
“In 1852 the English geologist Lyell visited this region in company with James Hall, the former’s views on the subject being published in 1855 in the Proceedings of the Royal Institution. He regarded the hypothesis of glacial transportation as out of the question, and apparently also that put forward by the Rogers brothers, for he made no mention of it. His own idea was that the large erratics had been transported to their present resting place by floating coast ice.

<<<Page: 467>>>

Perry read a paper on glacial phenomena, in which he referred to these trains incidentally, and argued that they were part of the true glacial
_ drift—morainal material deposited by the melting of eke B Perry’s the ice sheet of the glacial epoch.
Again, in 1878, Mr. E. R. Benton studied the trains in considerable detail, and in the Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology published a detailed description and map
of the region, from which Fg ns Work, the one given herewith is
reproduced. Benton took the ground that the bowlders were deposited by the ice sheet of the glacial period at the time of its final melting, the direction of the striz on the underlying rocks being here essentially the same as that of the bowlder trains. In connection with his investigations, Benton Sd wrote to Prof. W. B. Rogers concerning _ fe. 43. John Bulkley Perry. the views above advocated by him, and received in reply the letter from which the following abstract is taken:
At that time (i. e., when this paper was written) paroxysmal dynamics had still many advocates, and the attempted explanation may be interesting as a specimen of the bold type of speculation in which some of the early geologists sometimes ventured to indulge. But, for myself, I may say that long years of observation and study make me more distrustful of our knowledge of causes and more willing, in geology as in other things, to labor and wait.
It will be remembered that in 1844 Michael Tuomey was appointed State geologist of South Carolina, a position which he continued to hold until his appointment to the chair of geology, mineralogy, and
agricultural chemistry in the State University of Report on the Geology Alabama. of South Carolina oomade sy 1848. A preliminary report has already been noted (p. 387).
The final report appeared in the form of a volume of 293 pages in 1848. This, with the exception of the volume on the fossils of South Carolina, of which he and Doctor Holmes were joint authors, was the most systematic and pretentious of his publications.
This survey, like that of many of its predecessors in other States, was undertaken with a view of developing the agricultural resources of the State. The condition of the public mind toward pure science at the time is well reflected in the almost pathetic postscript of Mr. Tuomey to his preface, in which he simply states that, while the report was passing through the press, he was informed that the plates containing figures of fossils had not been considered essential by the committee on publication and were therefore omitted. The work

<<<Page: 468>>>

406 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904: a
comprised: (1) An introduction of 59 pages, given tip, as Was so often the case with these early reports, to general geological considerations and as applicable to any other region as that at hand, and (2) the report proper, comprising seven chapters (234 pp.) and an appendix of 56 pages, containing a catalogue of the fauna of the State. It also contained a geological map of the State, the first to be issued. |
The introductory chapters are interesting only as reflecting the condition of geologic knowledge at the time. Tuomey estimated that our actual knowledge of the earth’s crust extends to a depth of 15 miles, measured from the tops of the highest mountains. He adopted the Kant-Laplacean theory of the origin of the earth, and recognized slaty cleavage as distinct from joints and stratification, regarding it as resulting ‘‘from the tendency of the simple component substances of the rock to arrange themselves in crystalline forms at a time when the semifluidity of the mass permitted a certain degree of motion among its particles.” The crystalline structure of the gneisses and other metamorphic rocks he regarded as resulting from a degree of subterranean heat which, although intense, did not destroy the lines of stratification or bedding which they received at the time of their deposition. In his table showing the order of superposition of fossiliferous rocks, he divided them into: (1) The Recent or postPliocene period; (2) the Tertiary; (3) the Newer Secondary or Cretaceous; (4) the Middle Secondary, including the Wealden and Lower Lias with the intermediate beds; (5) the Older Secondary, including the Triassic; (6) the Newer Paleozoic, extending from the Magnesian Limestone or Permian down to and: including the Lower Carboniferous shales; (7) the Middle Paleozoic, including the Devonian; and (8) the New York System of Upper and Lower Silurian, including the Chemung and Champlain Division and intermediate formations.
In the part of the report relating to the geology of the State proper were chapters on the character of the surface rocks, beginning with a discussion of the granites and traps. Attention was called to their extensive decomposition, and the production of bowlders through decomposition along joint plains is described and figured. The occurrence of the flexible sandstone, or itacolumite, was noted, and it was rightly remarked that ‘*the flexible portions of the rock seem to be in the incipient stages of disintegration.” The gold and iron mines received a considerable share of attention, and a map was given showing in color the deposits of magnetic, specular, and limonite ores, and limestone of the York and Spartanburg districts.
In the line of purely physical local geology, perhaps the most interesting part of the report lies in his discussion of the possible subsidence of the coast going on at the present time. He showed, to his own satisfaction at least, that the presence of stumps of trees below and partly below the present sea level was due to the gradual under

<<<Page: 469>>>

mining of sand and mud flats on which they grew and the consequent settling of the stumps, retained in an upright position by their widespreading roots, and not to a subsidence of the coast, as taught by Lyell, Bartram, and later by Lieber and Cook.” The origin and nature of the soils, the mining and preparation of fertilizers. including lime burning, the washing and milling of gold ores, and kindred subjects, were touched upon. Many soil and fertjlizer analyses were given, the latter and their discussion being largely by Prof. C. U. Shepard, then professor of chemistry in the Medical College of the State, at Charleston. The fossils were identified by Conrad and Gibbs.
It is but natural that a considerable portion of the work should be given up to a discussion and description of the Tertiary deposits, which cover more than half the area of the State. Concerning these he recapitulated as follows:
1. That they are situated in a vast depression in the Cretaceous rocks, which, however, are only visible on the east and northeast.
2. That the Eocene consists of three well-defined groups: (1) The Buhr-stone formation, composed of thick beds of sand, gravel, grit, clay, and buhr-stone, amounting to at least 400 feet in thickness and underlying the calcareous beds. Its upper portions are characterized by beds abounding in silicified shells, for the most part identical with the Claiborne fossils. As these are littoral shells, they probably occupied the coast while the Santee beds were forming in deep water. The materials of which this formation is composed are the ruins of the granitic and metamorphic rocks of the upper districts, which may often be traced to their origin. (2) The Santee beds, consisting of thick beds of white limestone, marl, and greensand. These are best seen on the Santee, where, interstratified with the greensand, they dip gently toward the south. The coralline marl of Eutaw is found vear the upper edge of these beds. (3) The Ashley and Cooper beds, which are the newest Eocene beds of the State. The marl of these is characterized by its dark gray color and granular texture, while the remains of fishes and mammalia give its fossil remains a peculiar character and leave no doubt of the position assigned it—at the top of the Eocene series. These, together with the Santee beds, must amount at least to a thickness of 600 or 700 feet.
3. That although these strata contain throughout characteristic Eocene fossils, yet they also inclose some Cretaceous forme.
4, That the Middle Tertiary of the State, composed of beds of sand and marl, highly fossiliferous, is scattered, like similar beds in other places, over the EKocene and Cretaceous formations in isolated patches. That the proportion of recent species increases toward the south, and that the extinction of species seems to proceed in that direction, as is proved by the fact that the recent forms, which are also fossil, belong to a more southern fauna, there being but one or two exceptions.
5. That in South Carolina the proportion of recent species in this formation amounts to 40 per cent. I have, therefore, referred it to the older Pliocene.
6. That the post-Pliocene is confined to a belt along the coast of about 8 or 9 miles in breadth. The fossils are nearly all referable to living species now inhabiting the coast; a few, however, belong to the fauna of Florida and the West Indies. An elevation cf the coast has taken place since the deposition of these beds, which, it is probable, has given the rivers of the Atlantic slope a western tendency.
«Tuomey’s view was upheld by Prof. N. 8. Shaler as recently as 1870. Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, XIII, p. 228.

<<<Page: 470>>>

7. That the submerged stumps of trees found below the level of high tide along the coast are not the result of subsidence, properly so called, but must be referred to the encroachment of the sea upon the land and to the peculiar character of the deposits in which they grew.
8. That the almost entire absence of fluviatile shells in the recent and Tertiary deposits is mainly due to two facts: (1) That there is'a considerable space between the line of brackish and salt water, where neither fluviatile nor marine forms can exist; (2) that the streams have not transporting power sufficient to bring down fresh-water shells. So long as these circumstances exist, there can be no mixture of fluviatile and marine shells.
Prior to 1848 the professor of geology in the State University of Alabama had been required to spend a portion of his time, not exceeding four months of each year, in making geological explorations in
the State.In January, 1848, the general assembly, in Alabaa’ T8130. Tecognition of the utility of this work, passed a resolu-
tion appointing Michael Tuomey, then holding this professorship, State geologist, and requiring him to make a report to the general assembly at each of its biennial sessions. Thus simply was inaugurated the first systematic geological survey of the State.
Under this law, Tuomey’s First Biennial Report, in form of an octavo volume of 176 pages and a colored geological map of the entire State, appeared in 1850. In this the rocks of the State were divided into those of (1) The Primary, (2) Metamorphic, (8) Silurian, (4) Carboniferous, (5) Cretaceous, and (6) Tertiary systems, the last named being represented, so far as then known, only by the Eocene. Much of the report was taken up with economical considerations, particular attention being paid to coal and iron.
The second report of this survey appeared under the editorship of
J. W. Mallet, the publication having been delayed through the procrastination of the Public Printer and Professor Tuomey’s death, which occurred in March, 1857. . Tuomey recognized on Marble Creek in Limestone County a blue limestone which was a continuation of the Silurian rocks in Tennessee. The Devonian rocks were represented by black slate found on the principal streams flowing from the north into the Tennessee between Flint River in Madison and Shoal Creek in Lauderdale County.He regarded the divisions of the carboniferous made by Troost as sufhiciently characteristic in north Alabama to be retained.
The clastic material—that is, the loosely consolidated sands and gravels—which he mapped as extending across the middle of the State and north of the verge of the Cretaceous beds, and colored as postTertiary, were referred to as belonging to the drift, although having little resemblance to that of the north. ‘‘If the southern drift be at all connected with that of the north,” he wrote, ‘‘it may be explained by supposing that the northern glaciers suddenly melted, and that the water thus liberated in immense volume took a southern direction,

<<<Page: 471>>>

éaifying with it the débris torn from the surface over which it passed until it met the Tertiary sea, upon the shores of which its burden was deposited.” This theory, he felt, would sufficiently account for that enormously long ridge of drift extending parallel with the Atlantic coast, for the moment the current entered the Tertiary sea its velocity would be checked and the greater part of the transported detritus deposited. The reader will here recognize an old idea, but slightly modified.
Commenting on the fact that these beds contain no fossils, he wrote:
The only way by which I can account for this * * * is by supposing that, before the drift period, the bottom of this sea had been elevated and converted into dry land, and that at the commencement of the drift period a depression of the land took place; that the time between the influx of the sea and the deposition of the drift ’ was too short for marine animals even to have commenced a colonization, and that the land was again elevated into its present position and subjected to long-continued denudation, which produced its present configuration; that after this elevation the rivers excavated their present channels.
Tuomey was assisted in this work by Oscar M. Lieber, geologist, and J. W. Mallet, chemist.
The withdrawal of Tuomey from the field in South Carolina ineidental to his removal to Alabama left the position of State geologist vacant until the appointment of Lieber, in 1855. In the meantime Pa ae ee F. 5. Holmes, working privately, gave in the American Geology of Charleston Journal of Science for 1849 a brief paper on the geol-’ and Vicinity, 1849. ees , :
ogy of the vicinity of Charleston, which may be noted here, with the preliminary remark that this was Doctor Holmes’s first venture in the geological field. In this paper attention was called to the fact that the city of Charleston was built upon geological formations supposed to be identical in age and in other respects similar to those upon which London and Paris are located, i. e., upon the Eocene. The adjacent sea islands he thought to have been formed through the action of the ground swell of the ocean and the streams flowing down from the interior during the time when the land was gradually emerging from the sea.
He agreed with Tuomey in taking exception to the then generally received opinion that the sea was advancing upon these shores, having been led by his own observations to the conclusion ‘* that if the ocean does wash off portions of the shore at one exposed point it deposits the same at no great distance upon another.” The supposed indications of subsidence, such as the stumps and roots of trees now below the level of high tide, he accounted for on the supposition that outer sand barriers, which had prevented the ingress of salt waters, were gradually removed, allowing the waves to wash away the fine silt and mud between the roots of the trees, thus permitting them to sink into it and become embedded. This, it will be noted, was essentially the view advanced by Tuomey.

<<<Page: 472>>>

Holmes classified the formations met with as post-Pliocene, Miocene, and Eocene, the post-Pliocene, where observed, resting directly upon the Eocene. This he would account for on the supposition that during
the deposition of the post-Pliocene the Miocene areas were above water, or had been denuded of their postPliocene covering. pre_yious to the deposition of the alluvial or diluvial sands and clays.
Tn 1849 Capt. Howard Stansbury, of the corps of topographical ‘engineers, acting under authority of the War Department, explored the valley of Great Salt Lake. The expedition left Fort Leavenworth May 31, 1849, taking a Captain Stansbury’s Bory
Explorationsin Utah, west di1849,
> Moi \ Fa
i] Blufis
oune \ / yy )
Beatrice
Plattsmo Sas | —h |
K \\ Falls gmputhy
Sioux
Alliance
enne—
rection und striking the Platte at Fort Kearney, proceeding thence along this and the North Fork to the Sweetwater, and thence across South Pass to Fort Bridger and Salt Lake City. The return trip was made by a more southerly route, through Bridger Pass, striking the old route again at Fort Laramie, and thence back to Fort Leavenworth, the latter point being reached the 6th of November, 1850.
No geologist accompanied this expedition, and a small series of rocks and fossils which were collected were reported upon by James Hall. Forms belonging to the Cretaceous, Carboniferous, and Silurian or Devonian ages were identified.
“Cheyenn Se
Fic. 44.—Map showing Stansbury’s routes in 1849-50,
si of,
Gunnison
LG eens
L PARK J Tg :
ee ec gothelennnee™ am
vetlo |: NATIONAL P.

<<<Page: 473>>>

In 1847 Doctor Owen was again employed by the Treasury Department, under immediate supervision of General Land Commissioner Rk. M. Young, to make surveys in the Chippewa district of Wisconsin ~ rs ani and the northern part of Iowa. we region lies between Saniiniieconain, AS° and 47° north latitude and 89° and 94° longitude 1847-1851. west of Greenwich, embracing about 46,000 square miles and, as shown on the map (fig. 45), comprising that portion of the country ‘“‘lying chiefly east of the upper Mississippi above Lake Pepin and extending north to Lake Superior.” Incidentally, there was included a portion of Iowa ‘‘ stretching north from the northern boundary of the geological survey of 1839 as far as the St. Peters River, and also a tract of country north of the Wisconsin River.”
As in the previous survey, the time was limited, only the summer and autumn of 1847 being devoted to field work, the report, printed in form of Senate Document No. 57 of the first session Thirtieth Congress, bearing the date of April 23, 1848. It comprised 134 pages, w ith one geological map, 23 lithographic plates from drawings by Doctor Owen, and 13 colored plates of sections. Some of these last were beautiful combinations of sections and perspective landscapes, and give at a glance a general idea of the surface features as well as the character and dip of the underlying rock masses, such as is rarely exmere e celled. (See Plate 19, from his secos ae see Deen tion 5.) Even when one considers that, as Owen states, the working time of the members of his corps was from twelve to fifteen hours a day, still one wonders that so much was accomplished and presented in such good form. Thougha detailed geological survey was made of only about thirty townships west of the fourth principal meridian on Black River and sixty townships on the St. Croix, sufficient data was obtained to enable him to lay down with approximate accuracy the general bearing and area of the principal formations of over two-thirds the area above noted. He showed, also, that both the upper and lower magnesian limestone, were lead-bearing, and that there existed in Wisconsin two, if not three, trap ridges similar to those of Michigan, and which, like the last, ‘* hold out a prospect of productiveness.”
© Winnepeg | in { |
ce eee ‘7 P ER IOR

<<<Page: 474>>>

In this report, too, he first announced that the upper Mississippi country north of the Wisconsin River was based upon magnesian limestones which were older than the lowest formations of the valley of
ertiary fossiliferous. Strata
Eee aN ee es YEG WN ES
Gi “yt ~/ Bf : el 5 Shite: / / ‘ S Bel ANd a Aue NII S CIN 7 ict
4-4, Granitic ~non-fossiliferous/. }\”
Ay eS
fey Mol Te? im /,Granitic NACH Lene OCIA Sia ly
Strata Secondary fossiliferous
Unstratified rocks Primary fossiliferous
Coal Measures
Li PB ; ‘ght Coloured aes °atremital limestone © Sometimes Oolitic (FE)
Stor, b5 (D)
led Sondstone tn Kno,
Fossiliferous 4 Limestone _ +
we ia bed ©, Magnesion Li
—— he Lower Sandstone
Fia. 46.—Owen’s geological sections.
the Ohio, a portion of them being contemporaneous with the Calciferous group and Potsdam sandstone of New York. He noted also that the Falls of St. Anthony are receding and were probably at one time at a point near Fort Snelling.

<<<Page: 475>>>

Concerning the red sandstones of the south and west shores of Lake Superior, he wrote: ‘‘There is strong presumptive evidence that they were deposited subsequently to the Carboniferous era.” His evidence, though, was admittedly weak and later was acknowledged to be wholly misleading and insufficient.
This preliminary reconnaissance ended, Owen was instructed to make a survey of the Northwest Territory, embracing chiefly Wisconsin, Iowa, and portions of Minnesota. The manuscript of his final report of this work was submitted in 1851 and published under date of 1852 in the form of a quarto volume of 628 pages of text, with 15 plates of fossils, 19 folding sections, and a geological map. The illustrations of the fossil remains are of particular interest, being medal-ruled on steel, the first of their kind produced in America.
Owen was assisted in this survey by Doctors Shumard and Litton, of St. Louis; Dr. John Evans and F. B. Meek, of Owensboro, Kentucky; Col. C. Whittlesey, of Cleveland, Ohio; and Messrs. B. C. Macy, Henry Pratton, George Warren, and John Beale, of New Harmony, Indiana.
To Doctor Leidy fell the work of describing the vertebrate fossils collected by Doctor Evans in the Bad Lands of Nebraska. Among these fossils was the now well-known Oreodon, an animal with grinding teeth like the elk and canines like those of omnivorous thickskinned animals, belonging, as was thought, to ‘‘a race which lived both on flesh and vegetables and yet chewed the cud like our fourfooted grazers.”
This work was the first systematic account published of the Bad Lands fossils. The first mammalian remains to be described from this region, it should, however, be noted, consisted of fragments of the jaw of an enormous pachyderm, which were described by Dr. H. A. Prout, of St. Louis, in the American Journal of Science for 1847.
Owen regarded the gypsum deposits of Dubuque as due to original deposition at the bottom of an ocean, the sulphate of lime having probably been derived during the formation of the rocks and from submarine sources. This view is somewhat remarkable when it is recalled that of the total lime salts in solution in sea water, 90 per cent occur in the form of sulphates and would be deposited as gypsum during the ordinary processes of evaporation.
His views on the origin of the drift were in accordance with those of the leading authorities of his day. The large bowlders he regarded as having been deposited by floating ice and drifted by currents from the north while the country was depressed. The opinion which he had previously expressed (in 1848) concerning the age of the Lake Superior sandstones was in this final report retracted, and he relegated them, on stratigraphic evidences only, to the Potsdam formations, which is in accordance with the prevailing opinion of to-day.

<<<Page: 476>>>

Of greater importance was the fact, first announced in his report for 1847-48, but here brought out in detail, that underlying his lower magnesian limestone (Chazy) there were at least six different trilobitehearing beds, separated by from 10 to 150 feet of intervening strata. Previous to this no remains of this nature had been reported from any American strata older than the Canadian pericd of the Lower Silurian. These trilobite-bearing strata, it should be noted, were found resting immediately upon the primal rocks and hence formed the true base of the zoological series in the Mississippi Valley.
On the title page of this volume appeared the cut of the horizontally jointed trap of Lake Superior that has long done duty in the text-
books of Le Conte and others (see fig. 47).
Fig. 47.—Trap dikes on Lake Superior. (After D. D. Owen.)
In accordance with an act of Congress approved March 1, 1847, Dr. C. T. Jackson was appointed by the Hon. R. J. Walker, then Secretary of the Treasury, to make a geological survey of that portion of cate gO ees Michigan lying south of Lake Superior and north and Jackson in northwest of Lake Michigan. As in previous operaMichigan, 1847. E ee : 2 :
tions of like nature by Owen, the object of this survey was to ascertain which of the lands should be classed as mining lands and which agricultural. Jackson spent two seasons in the prosecution of this work and then resigned, for reasons which seem to have been in part personal and in part political, the completion of the work being confided to his assistants, J. W. Foster and J. D. Whitney.
Jackson’s report was published as House Document No. 5, Thirtyfirst Congress, first session, 1849. It comprised upward of 560 pages, with 19 plates, geological maps of Keweenaw Point and Isle Royal, and three sections of mines. The eruptive rocks of Keweenaw Point were described as having been intruded through linear caverns or fractures in the superincumbent rock which they had frequently overflowed, so as to rest unconformably on their strata, Here is again

<<<Page: 477>>>

recognized the possibility of fissure eruptions as distinctive from the crater eruptions of modern volcanoes.
The red sandstones of Lake Superior were erroneously regarded as belonging to the New Red series, the opinion being based upon a tract of limestone carrying the fossil Pentamerus oblongus, which was found in the midst of the sandstone near Anse.
Jackson, it is well to note, was opposed to the principle of the reservation of mineral lands by the General Government. He wrote:
It may be useful to the public to cause geological and mineralogical surveys to be made for their information, but I am satisfied that the reservation of mineral lands is a great evil to the country, and that the Government never can derive revenue from such sources, while the restriction most seriously embarrasses the settlement of newly acquired territory. The above remarks are applicable to the whole copper ‘region, and I would not advise the reservation of any part of it as mineral land.
Jackson’s chief assistants were J. D. Whitney and J. W. Foster, already noted, Dr. John Locke, and Dr. Wolcott Gibbs.
In 1848, while occupying the chair of zoology and geology at Harvard University, Louis Agassiz, in company with Jules Marcou anda party of students, undertook an exploration of the Lake Superior region, the results of which were published in 1850, under the Agassiz’s Physical cally eee
Characters of Lake ot if uake Superior, 1848.
Superior; } \| =) : . ond ac =e gan its Physical Character, Ke mt L3
Fic. 48.—Map showing area surveyed by Jackson, and Foster and Whitney, 1847-49.
Vegetation and Animals, compared with those of other and similar regions. Marcou would have us believe that this volume marked an epoch in natural history publications in America, this mainly on account of the superior style of its illustrations. Certainly there was much to justify the claim.
The country was nearly everywhere roadless, and transportation by water possible only through the aid of birch-bark canoes. As might be expected, the purely geological observations were of little value, excepting so far as they related to glaciation. Agassiz argued that the form of the lake was due to ‘‘a series of injections of trap dikes

<<<Page: 478>>>

of different characters, traversing the older rocks in various directions.” He found six systems of these dikes, to the trend of which the various lake shores in a general way conformed. ‘The relationship of the various copper deposits he attempted to explain on the somewhat remarkable, as well as ingenious, assumption that the material had been poured out in a melted condition, and, cooling quickly, remained in the native state, offering to the agencies of change a relativeiy small surface exposed in proportion to its mass. At a distance from the main mass, where the ejections were small with relatively large surfaces exposed, they became more or less completely changed into oxides, sulphides, carbonates, etc. The reader need scarcely be reminded that authorities to-day hold quite a different view, and regard the copper as having been precipitated by reduction to a native state from salts held in permeating solutions. ;
Naturally, Agassiz’s views, as here set forth on the glacial phenomena of the region, are of paramount interest. He argued that the drift of all northeast America and northwest Europe was contemporaneous and due to a general ice sheet. Through a repetition of many of his former arguments he showed that a current of water sufficiently powerful to transport the large blocks found would have swept prac-
ically over the entire globe, and not have stopped abruptly, as did the
drift, after reaching latitude 39° north. This limit of distribution of the bowlders to the northern latitudes also indicated to his mind that the matter of climate was an important factor. Water-transported material, he further argued, would not cause straight furrows and scratches, and the theory that such might be due to drifting icebergs was rejected on the ground that existing bergs were insufficient, and to produce such as were would necessitate a period of cold sufficient for his hypothetical polar ice cap. He pointed out that the northern erratics were rounded and widespread; that the highest hills were scratched and polished to their summits, while to the southward the mountain tops had protruded above the ice sheets and supplied the glaciers with their load of angular bowlders. He also called attention to the absence of marine or fresh water shells from the glacial (ground moraine) deposits, showing it was not subaqueous. Referring to the stratified deposits overlying the drift, he wrote:
The various heights at which these stratified deposits occur above the level of the
sea.show plainly that since their accumulation the mainland has been litted’ above the ocean at different rates in different parts of the country.
And, further:
It must be at once obvious that the various kinds of loose materials all over the northern hemisphere have been accumulated, not only under different circumstances, but during long-continued subsequent distinct periods. To the first—or ice period— belong all phenomena connected with the transportation of erratic bowlders, polishing, scratching, ete., and during which the land stood at a higher level. To the second belong the stratified drift, such as indicate a depression of the continent.

<<<Page: 479>>>

Louis Agassiz was born in Motier, Switzerland, in 1807, and came into world-wide notoriety through his works on fossil fishes and his enthusiastic exploitation of the glacial discoveries of Hugi, Venetz,
and Charpentier, while in Neuchatel. He came to Sketch of Agassiz. America to better his finances in 1846, and after delivering courses of lectures before the Lowell Institute in Boston and in other of the eastern cities, accepted, in 1847, the professorship of geology and zoology in Harvard University. Agassiz was not, however, a geologist, and his service to this branch of science after coming to America was more as a teacher and through arousing public interest than by research. His enthusiasm was too great, his staying power too slight; he was too prone to jumpat conclusions to make a good geologist, as shown in his hasty assumption that the bowlders of decomposition found by him in Brazil were drift bowlders and indica: tive of a former glacial period in that latitude. Fic. 49.—Louis Agassiz.
The work begun by Jackson in Michigan and under direction of the General Land Office in 1847 was, as already shown, continued by Messrs. J. W. Foster and J.D: Whitney. Their reports were issued in octavo form, Vol. I, on the copper lands, conSey stituting House Executive
Whitney’s Workin Document No. 69, first sesMichigan, 1849-51.
sion, Thirty-first Congress, 1850, and comprising 224 pages, with 12 plates and a facsimile of a map of Lake Superior made by the Jesuit missionaries in 1671. Vol. I, or Part 2, on the iron region, appeared as Senate Executive Document No. 4, special session, March, 1851. This comprised, all told, 406 pages, with 33 plates. A colored geological map of the area surveyed accompanied the report. Some of the more important items noted are as below: Teno eratian walledrocion They stated that Lake Superior occupies an immense depression which has been for the most part excavated out of the soft sandstone of the Potsdam age. The configuration of that portion of the lake lying west of longitude 88° was deemed as due to two axes of elevation extending in parallel lines from the northeast to the southwest, which upraised the sandstone, causing it to form a synclinal valley.
NAT Mus 1904

<<<Page: 480>>>

This, it will be noted, is radically different from the idea put forward by Agassiz.
The conglomerate composed of rounded fragments of jaspery rock, so abundant throughout the copper region of the south shore of the lake, they regarded as a friction conglomerate, testifying: to the *‘intensity of the force with which the eruptive rocks have been propelled from the interior through the earth’s crust,” the detritus haying been redistributed by the waters, following in this the teachings of Von Buch. Their graphic account of the conditions under which it was supposed to have been formed is worthy of being reproduced entire:
We may suppose that at one time all of this district (i. e., the copper district) formed a part of the bed of the primeval ocean. Adopting the theory of a cooling globe, we may further suppose that the waters were in a heated condition and differed essentially in chemical composition from those of the present oceans. The earth’s crust was intersected by numerous powerful fissures, and the communication between the exterior and interior was unobstructed. Volcanic phenomena were much more frequent and exerted on a grander scale. Each volcanic paroxysm would give rise to powerful currents and agitations of the water, and their abrading action in detaching portions of the preexisting rocks, and depositing them in beds and layers on the floor of the ocean, would operate with greater intensity than at the present time. We can trace the remains of one volcanic fissure extending from the head of Keweenaw Point, in a southwesterly direction, to the western limits of the district, and of another, in a parallel direction, from the head of Neepigon Bay to the western limits of Isle Royale. Along the lines of these fissures existed numerous voleanic vents, like those observed at this day in Peru, Guatemala, and Java, which were characterized by periods of activity and repose. From these vents were poured forth numerous sheets of trap, which flowed over the sands and clays then in the progress of accumulation. During the throes and convulsions of the mass portions of rock would become detached and rounded simply by the effects of attrition, and jets of melted matter be projected as voleanic bombs through the air or water, which, on cooling, would assume spheroidal forms; while other portions of the rock, in a state of minute mechanical division, would be ejected in the form of ashes and sand, which, mingling with the water, would be deposited as the oscillations subsided among the sands and pebbles at the bottom of the sea. During the whole of this period of volcanic activity the sands which now form the base of the Silurian system were in the progress of accumulation and became mingled with these igneous products. The level of the sea, as evidenced by the ripple marks, was subject to repeated alterations; sometimes it rose so shoal that the marks of the rippling waves were impressed on the sands, at others it sank to unfathomable depths.
In the process of consolidation the rocks became traversed by numerous fissures, and the water, charged with lime, was forced in like jets of steam, filling them with materials different from the inclosing mass. In this way the pores in the conglomerate and the vesicles of the amygdaloid were filled.
The formation of the copper and silver ores they regarded as due probably to electro-chemical agencies. To quote their own words:
The existence of two metals side by side, like copper and silver, each chemically pure and capable of being alloyed in any proportions; the accumulation of the latter
near the cross courses or at the junction of two mineral planes; the changes in the metallic contents of lodes in their passage through different rocks, and the parallel

<<<Page: 481>>>

arrangement of the earthy gangues, all seem to indicate the existence of electrical currents during the period of their formation.
Concerning the origin of the drift and the phenomena of the grooyings and striations of the rocks in the regions, they were still somewhat inthe dark. The position of bowlders resting on stratified deposits of sand and clay was regarded as antagonistic to the theory of a general ice cap similar to that of the circumpolar region. It was thought that such might rather have been transported by floating ice (not icebergs) in the same manner that bowlders are even now each spring transported from the borders of the northern lakes and rivers and dispersed over the adjacent swamps and lowlands.
The slates of the region were looked upon as probably originally
laid down as voleanie ashes and subsequently consolidated—a by no means improbable theory. The specular and magnetic iron ores they, strangely enough, regarded as— a purely igneous product, in some instances poured out, but in others sublimated, from the interior of the earth. We may conceive that the various rocks of the Azoic series were originally deposited in a nearly horizontal position. During the deposition of these strata, at various intervals sheets of plastic matter were poured forth from below and spread out upon the surface of the pre-existing strata. During this period the interior of the earth was the source of constant emanations of iron, which appeared at the surface in the form of a plastic mass in combination with oxygen, or rose in metallic vapors or as a sublimate, perhaps as a chloride; in the one case it covered over the surface like a lava sheet, in the other it was absorbed into the adjacent rocks or diffused through the strata in the process of formation.
The igneous rocks they classified as dolerite, anamesite, and basalt. The sandstone, which occupies almost exclusively the bed of Lake Superior and which occurs in isolated patches along the shore and on the islands, they rightly classed as Potsdam, differing in this respect with Jackson, who considered it as New Red, and from Locke and others, who thought it to be the equivalent of the Old Red or Devonian sandstone of Europe. °
The work on the Paleozoic rocks, as given in Part II of these reports, was done by James Hall, of New York. The limestones first seen upon St. Marys River, Hall regarded as identical with the Fee Sau Chazy, Bird's-eye, Black River, and Trenton limemoe stones of New York. The Cliff limestone of Owen he
designated as the Galena limestone, which he erroneously regarded asa distinct member of the Lower Silurian system, not recognized in the East.
In his chapter on the parallelism of the Paleozoic deposits of the United States and Europe, Hall called attention to the fact that—
The simplest principles of elementary geology teach us that sedimentary beds, having the same thickness and same lithographical characters, can not have spread over an area so wide as that now included between the European and American continents. All sedimentary deposits must vary in character at remote points, as

<<<Page: 482>>>

the physical conditions of the ocean can not be presumed to have remained the same over a wide extent of surface. Under such circumstances, absolute parallelism is not to be sought for or expected. Calcareous deposits, as would naturally be supposed, have been found to be more persistentand more uniform in the character of their fossil contents; but these, over some portion of their extent, have often been invaded by argillaceous and arenaceous sediments, and the fauna is found to be in a greater or less degree influenced by such circumstances.
The following table was given, showing the subdivisions of the Paleozoic series in New York:
1. Potsdam sandstone. 2. Calciferous sandstone.
Upper sandstone of Wisconsin and Minnesota similar to the Potsdam
sandstone. Chazy limestone. 4. Bird’s-eye and Black River limestone. 5. Trenton limestone. Galena or lead-bearing limestone of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Illinois not recognized at the East.
6. Utica slate. 7. Hudson River shales. ;Included in the Hudson River group. 8. Gray sandstone. | 9. Oneida conglomerate. 10. Medina sandstone. 11. Clinton group. 12. Niagara group, coralline limestone of Schoharie. 13. Onondaga salt group. 14. Tentaculite or water limestone. 15. Pentamerus limestone. 16. Delthyris shaly limestone. ‘Lower Helderberg group. 17. Enerinal limestone. 18. Upper Pentamerus limestone. 19. Oriskany sandstone. 20. Cauda-galli grit. 21. Schoharie grit. 22. Onondaga limestone. 23. Corniferous limestone. 24. Marcellus shale. |
* Upper Helderberg group.
25. Hamilton group. 26. Tully limestone. 27. Genesee slate. 28. Portage group. 29. Chemung group. 30. Sandstone and shale of the Catskill Mountains. 31. Gray and yellow sandstone.
32. Great Carboniferous limestone.
ee group.
The following was given to show the equivalency of the Cliff limestone with the New York group:

<<<Page: 483>>>

Trenton limestone.
Galena limestone. ae at the east and southeast.
6-8. Hudson River group.
9. Oneida conglomerate. | 10. Medina sandstone. { 11. Clinton group. \ 12. Niagara group. ! 13. Onondaga salt group. Wanting west of Lake Michigan.
14. Tentaculite limestone.
15. Pentamerus limestone.
16. Delthyris shaly limestone. ie in the States north of the Ohio River.
Wanting at the west.
‘The Niagara and the calcareous portion of the Clinton.
17. Encrinal limestone.
18. Upper Pentamerus limestone.
19. Oriskany sandstone. 20. Cauda-galli grit.
21. Schoharie grit.
22. Onondago limestone.
23. Corniferous limestone.
Wanting at the west and southwest.
The following table was intended to show the equivalency of the New York forms with those of Europe:
J? Trenton limestone, in part.
“\2 Utica slate.
fHudson River group.
\Clinton group, in part. Clinton group, in part.
Wenlock series.; Niagara group.
Lower Helderberg limestones.
Llandeilo flags
Caradoe sandstone.
Upper Helderberg limestones. Hamilton group.
Ludlow series and Devonian system. ae group.
Red sandstone and shale of Catskill Mountains.
The Chazy, Bird’s-eye, and Black River limestones, the Onondaga salt group and the Oriskany sandstone he regarded as having no representation among British strata.
Commenting on the proportion of species represented by European authorities as passing from Devonian to Carboniferous, he wrote:
It is so enormously great that we find no parallel to it in any preceding period. * * * From all these facts there seems to be but one conclusion, and that is, in the British Isles particularly, either there are remarkable exceptions to the general law in the continuation of species from one to another or that there is no foundation for a distinction between the Devonian and,Carboniferous systems.
Further on he wrote:
We can not avoid the conclusion that, if we adopt the Devonian system with the limits suggested by foreign writers, we must drop forever the attempt to recognize the Ludlow division of the Silurian system.

<<<Page: 484>>>

The drift phenomena of the region studied by Foster and Whit-_ Dose ooane ney were described by E. Desor, who divided the a i a deposits into four classes, as follows, beginning with the lowermost:
~1. A layer of coarse, pebbly loam called ‘‘ coarse drift.’’
2. Clay resting either on the coarse drift or directly on the rock.
3. A deposit of sand, gravel, and pebbles, irregularly stratified, resting upon the clay or the bed rock.
4.. Isolated bowlders scattered over the whole region.
While disclaiming any intention of giving a general theory for the causes and origin of the drift, he argued that the phenomena he described indicated neither paroxysmal agencies nor the operation of any single cause, however long continued. ‘‘ They disclose a long series of events which have resulted from causes highly diversified, and as yet imperfectly known. Three periods are recognized in the history of the drift of the Lake Superior region: (1) ‘The period of the grooving and polishing of the rocks,’ which ‘ must be considered as the dawning of the drift epoch;’ (2) a period of comparative quiescence, extending over a long period of time and during which the stratum of red clay was deposited. This is the second era of the drift. (5) The overlying stratum of sand and gravel presumably formed by water, but at higher levels than the clay and indicating a still further depression of the land. This period characterized by intervals of agitation and repose. He considered that earthquake waves, according to H. D. Rogers’s ingenious theory, m/ght be responsible in part for these.”
The transportation of the bowlders, he thought, took place at the close of the drift epoch.
In another article in the American Journal of Science for the same year (1852), concerning the post-Pliocene of the Southern States and its relation to the Laurentian of the North and the deposits of the’ Mississippi Valley, Desor attempted to account for the large bowlders in the drift of Long Island by means of ice rafts. The bowlders in the post-Pliocene of the Southern States were doubtfully referred to water action only.
Desor, according to Marcou, was a German, who had come to America as private secretary to Agassiz, and whatever views he may have had on glaciation or other scientific subjects may be regarded as mainly absorbed rather than learned from observation. Through becoming over-presumptuous he had a falling out with his master, which resulted in his discharge in 1848 and return to Germany in 1852, passing thus beyond the limits of our field of study.
J. D. Dana, as already noted, served as geologist in the United States exploring expedition under Captain Wilkes, during the years 1838-42. The results of his observations during this time are embod

<<<Page: 485>>>

ied in the tenth volume of the reports of the expedition, a royal octavo athe of 756 pages, with a folio atlas of 21 plates. Many of See the conclusions given in this volume were first pub-
lished in the columns of the American Journal of Science, and have already received attention.
One of the earliest results of Dana’s work, as here chronicled, was the establishment of the principle that temperature influences the growth and distribution of corals. A claim to priority in this discoyery was made by James P. Couthouy,and brought about a personal controversy somewhat bitter between the two authors. This has been alluded to elsewhere (p. 373).
The existence of harbors about the coral-bound reefs Dana attributed largely to the action of tidal and local marine currents, though the presence of fresh-water streams may have contributed toward the same end.
He rejected the then popular theory of the formation of coral reefs and atolls through the gradual subsidence of volcanoes, the crater corresponding to the lagoon and the rim to the belt of land, though believing that, beyond question, a subsidence had taken place throughout a large part of the Pacific, and hence that subsidence must form a part of any true theory of the origin of the reefs.
He believed that the atoll once formed a fringing reef about a high island. This, as the island subsided, became a barrier reef, which continued its growth while the land slowly disappeared. The area of waters within finally contained the last sinking peak, which itself finally disappeared, leaving only the barrier at the surface and an islet or two of coral in the inclosed lagoon.
These were essentially the views put forward independently by Darwin. The recent work of the younger Agassiz has shown them to be not wholly correct.
From the actual extent of the present coral reefs and islands Dana inferred that the whole amount of high land lost to the Pacific by this subsidence was at least 50,000 square miles, probably much greater, though he would not go so far as to conclude that a continent once occupied the place of the present ocean, or indeed of a portion of it.
In the discussion of the Hawaiian volcanoes it was noted that no apparent connection existed, so far as indicated by the phenomena of eruption, between Mount Loa and Kilauea, 16 miles distant and more than 10,000 feet lower. It was therefore concluded that the two conduits, which he assumed were once connected by a fissure, had become isolated through the solidifying of the lava between them, each conduit being possibly a separate branch of some deep-seated channel.
The wide difference in the height of the columns of lava in two volcanoes so near together as those noted above caused him also to doubt the statement so commonly made by writers of that day to the effect that volcanoes were safety valves.

<<<Page: 486>>>

Agsuredly, if, while Kilauea is open on the flanks of Mount Loa — a yast gulf 3} miles in diameter — lavas still rise and are poured out, Kilauea is no safety valve even to the area covered by this single mountain alone.
The conelusions based upon the study of these Hawaiian volcanoes were to the effect that:
1. The majority of the Pacific volcanic summits were formed from successive eruptions of molten rock, alternating sometimes with cinder or fragmentary ejections.
2, That the eruptions are, in general, the result of a rising or ascent of the lavas, owing to the inflation by heat of such vaporizable substances as sulphur and water, the overflow or lateral outbreak taking place in consequence of the increased pressure from gravity and from the elasticity of the confined vapors, the contraction of the earth’s surface being no more necessary for an eruption than the contraction of the sides of a pot of water to make it boil.
He concluded further that volcanic action usually proceeded from fresh water gaining access to a branch belonging to some particular outlet or vent, and not toa common channel at greater depth. The lack of sympathetic action between two neighboring vents was thus explained on the ground that the union of their channels ** took place far below the level to which the waters that ordinarily feed the fires gain access.”
To the elevation theories of volcanic craters advocated by Von Buch he took exception, as he did also to the theory of Bischoff, who appealed to the internal igneous fluids for the source of volcanic action.
The highly feldspathic, coarsely crystalline, and solid centers of certain volcanic mountains, in contrast with the more vesicular and less dense outer portions, he rightly ascribed to slowness in cooling, the central mass being protected on all sides from the external air. Incidentally he discussed a problem which has become known to modern petrographers as that of magmatic differentiation. He argued that, given a large crater like that of Kilauea, the rise of the lavas through the center would be accompanied by a descending current along the side, though of less distinctness. The essential constituents of a rock, for example, being augite and feldspar, wherever the temperature of the liquid mass becomes sufliciently lowered, there the feldspar will commence to solidify or will slowly stiffen in the midst of the fluid material made up of the other ingredients. Under these conditions the ascending vapors would urge the feldspar upward much less freely than the more liquid part of the lava, for the latter would yield more readily to the inflating vapors and thus become lighter and rise to the surface. This process, going on throughout the whole progress of the cone, would keep the center feldspathic below a short distance from the summit. The residue from the feldspathic crystallization, consisting of ferruginous silicates, would be brought upward in the

<<<Page: 487>>>

form of a frothy scoria which must on either side, in part, return to supply the place of the ascending current. On cooling, then, the more basaltic portions would constitute this exterior descending part. Thus, a feldspathic center and basaltic flanks would be the result of one and the same process. This feldspathic center, further, by being inclosed within a thick covering of rocks, would cool slowly, forming, perhaps, disseminated crystals in the earthy base, or, if cooling: sufticiently slowly, a crystalline granular mass like granite or syenite.
He recognized the fact
that particular rocks have no necessary relation to time, excepting so far as time is connected with a difference in the earth’s temperature or climate and also in oceanic or atmospheric pressure, for, if the elements are at hand, it requires only different circumstances as regards pressure, heat, and slowness of cooling to form any igneous rock the world contains.
The date of the beginning of volcanic activity on the Hawaiian Islands he placed as far back as the early Carboniferous or Silurian epoch, and believed that: (1) There were as many separate rents in the region as there are now islands; (2) that each rent was widest in the southeast portion; (3) that the southernmost rent was the largest, and (4) that the order of extinction of the volcanoes was as follows:
1. Kauai.
2. Western Oahu.
3. Western Maui (Mount Eeka).
4. Eastern Oahu.
5. Northwestern Hawaii (Mount Kea).
6. Southeast Maui (Mount Kale-a-kala).
7. Southeast Hawaii (Mount Loa).
From the general arrangement of the islands in the Pacific and the study of the phenomena connected therewith the conclusion was reached that the Hawaiian group originated in a series of rents or ruptures seldom continued at the surface for a long distance, but frequently advancing successively, one after the other, causing the resultant islands to appear in the form of a curve rather than a straight line, and, further, it was announced that: (1) While straight ranges are of occasional occurrence, curved ranges are still more common; (2) that curvature may arise either from a gradual change of trend in the subordinate parts or from the position of these parts in a series; (3) that the same great chain may change its direction 60° or more, and consequently (4) the course of a mountain chain can be no evidence of its age. In this it will be observed he differed radically from Elie de Beaumont.
Dana noted further that the Pacific islands were arranged mainly in two systems of linear groups nearly at right angles with each other, the linear groups being based on a series of ruptures instead of a single uninterrupted fissure. The prevailing uniformity of trend of

<<<Page: 488>>>

these fissures or ruptures he believed to be due both to the nature of the crust fractured and the direction of the fracturing forces. He accepted the doctrine of an earth cooled from a state of fusion, and regarded the influence of electric currents on the position. of continents in process of formation as an established fact. An outer crust having once formed, the deep-seated crystallization would go on at a rate inconceivably slower, and circumstances would be favorable for a coarse crystallization of the material below and for the operation of electrical currents. The rupturing force he believed to be contraction caused by cooling. He argued that a cooling globe incrusted over by refrigeration while contraction was still going on beneath would, like a Prince Rupert’s drop, be in a state of tension. Such a tension is bound to produce fractures and displacements, the direction of which would depend on rate of cooling in different parts and on the change in the earth’s oblateness accompanying a diminution of its diameter. He concluded, from the absence of volcanoes in the interior of continents, that these portions of the globe cooled first and became solid; the intermediate portions cooling later and at a less rapid rate contracted most, since the crust was here thinnest. The oceanic areas would therefore be gradually subsiding and the tension increasing: moreoyer the tension, from its nature, would be exerted nearly horizontally. He inferred, therefore, that the subsiding oceans have produced the mountains of the continents, and that the oceanic and continental areas have never changed places, and saw no reason for appealing to an incomprehensible subterranean force for the uplifting of the mountain chains or the continents. Such may have been ‘‘only a result on the whole of the deepening of the ocean’s bed. It is obvious * * * that the earth has reached its present condition by gradual progress from a state of prolonged: igneous action through epochs of increasing quiet, interrupted by distant periods of violence, to the present time, when even the gentlest oscillations of the crust have almost ceased.” These same ideas he had previously put forward in a paper in the American Journal of Science on the Origin of some of the Physical Features of the Earth’s Crust, noted elsewhere.
In his discussion of the origin of the coal beds of New South Wales, Dana concluded— that the layers of the coal series were probably deposited by fresh-waters during the different stages of annual floods and wider deluges occurring at more distant periods; that the subsidence, which may have been gradual during the coal deposits, finally submerged the whole.
Another important observation bearing on the same subject was made when writing on the geology of Luzon and its coal beds:
One of the interesting points about this lake (Laguna de Bay) is the fact that vast quantities of plants live on its surface and pass down the river into the bay, carry

<<<Page: 489>>>

ing along great numbers of fresh-water snails of different species. Here we haye, therefore, fresh-water shells and vegetation which is not marine accumulating under salt water, for they sink after a while and must become buried in the mud of the bottom, along with the remains of marine life. This floating vegetation illustrates a theory with regard to the vegetation of the coal beds.
The gold excitement of California in 1848-49 drew attention to a region the geology of which was practically unknown. Fremont’s expedition to California and Oregon in 1843-44 was not accompanied ee by a geologist, and the few fossils collected were California, described by James Hall. Some Notes on the Cali1849-1851. ehh ent :
fornia Gold Region, six pages only, were given by C. $. Lyman in the American Journal of Science for 1849, while J. D. Dana had touched upon the subject during his return overland after the disaster to the Wilkes Exploring Expedition. The main gold-bearing area was, therefore, practically an unknown land. The appearance in 1850 of Philip T. Tyson’s Geology and Industrial Resources of California was consequently important. Tyson seems to have gone to California in 1849 as a private citizen, but so great was the demand for information concerning the region that on his return he made a report to Col. J. J. Abert, which was printed as a Senate document the year following.
In this report Tyson gave eight sections across the gold country, two of which extended from the coast to the Sierras... These were published as mere outlines, showing the direction of the dip of the rocks, but with no pretense to scale. He described the western flank of the Sierras as consisting of a vast mass of metamorphic and hypogene rocks, stretching from the Sacramento Valley to the axis of the mountains. The metamorphic rocks, mainly slates, contained the veins of auriferous quartz, through the breaking down of which had been derived the gold found in the gravels of the ravines.
Making all due allowance for Tyson’s laudable desire to check the wide and rapidly spreading excitement, bordering almost upon insanity, caused by grossly exaggerated accounts of the richness of the mines, still it would seem as if through overzealousness, or perhaps through actual ignorance, he underestimated their value, both to his own and others detriment. But it must be remembered that at that time and in that remote region, deposits, either placer or in veins, that could to-day be profitably worked, were valueless. He warned prospective investors that the large bodies of gold-bearing quartz found on the surface would if followed be found to be ‘‘ nothing more than descending veins securely held between solid rocks, and that the cost of mining such was enormous, whilst the chances were almost wholly against their containing gold in proportion that would pay expenses.” Indeed, Tyson regarded the prospect of a profitable mining of the veins as ‘‘altogether too remote and uncertain to be relied on.”

<<<Page: 490>>>

During the session of 1847-48 the legislature of Maryland passed an act providing for the appointment and commission of a ** person of ability, integrity, and suitable practical and scientific attainments,” ee ee who should act as agricultural chemist for the State. Maryland, rhese requirements seem to have been met in the per-
son of Dr. James Higgins, who received the appointment and held the office until 1858, during which time he issued five reports. The office was not really a geological one, and the matter is mentioned here as bearing upon the subject only indirectly. During the session of 1858 bills were brought before the legislature to have the title of the office changed to geologist and, again, to chemist and
geologist. Both, however, Mata ™ ‘failed. Higgins was suc
ceeded in 1859 by the Philip Tyson above noted, whose first report of 145 octavo pages and appendix of 20 pages: was issued February 14, 1860. Like the reports of his predecessor, this was given up very largely to a discussion of agricultural questions, but contained chapters on the Minerals Comprising the Rocks of the State; The Mineral Character of Rocks; The Consideration of the Rocks as Grouped into Geological Formations, and also their Geographic Distribution in Maryland; and on Chemical and Physical Geology, in which the question of the origin of soils through rock weathering was
Fie. 51.—Philip Thomas Tyson.
discussed,
The main interest in the work, from our present standpoint, lies in the colored geological map (and sections) which accompanied it, and which had the merit of being the first special map of the State, the area having, of course, been included in the general maps of Maclure and others. The various formations were classified according to the scheme of Rogers for the map of Pennsylvania, and a table given showing which of these were found within the State limits. The second report, which appeared in 1862, comprised 92 pages, and was given over almost wholly to a discussion of economic questions, including the soils and ores, coal, marbles, clays, etc. From the presence of fossil cycads, found associated with the iron ores, Tyson was disposed to consider these and the clays in which they occur as belonging to the oolitic period.”
oL. F. Ward, in his paper in the Nineteenth Annual Report of the U. 8. Geological Survey, 1897-98, puts these down as Cretaceous (Potomac).

<<<Page: 491>>>

The period of financial depression, which proved so fatal to the State surveys during the last decade, had run its course. Several new States had in the meantime been added to the Union, some of which showed commendable promptness in authorizing geological surveys. New organizations were thus formed in fourteen States, eight of which had made no previous attempt. These eight, in alphabetical order, are California, Illinois, lowa, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Texas, and Wisconsin. Six States for the second time undertook the work—Michigan, New Jersey, North and South Carolina. Tennessee, and Vermont. The National Government was also active, the most important undertaking being the surveys in connection with the proposed Pacific railways. In addition to these, Capt. R. B. Marey made a survey of the Red River region of Louisiana, Maj. W. H. Emory one of the Mexican boundary, and Colonel Pope one into the arid region of New Mexico along the thirty-second parallel. To each and all of these expeditions geologists, or at least naturalists, were attached. In the British provinces Logan’s survey was doing good service, while Dawson, alone and unofficially, was working in Nova Scotia. :
This was an era of publication, not merely of reports, but of books. Emmons’s American Geology, Dawson’s Acadian Geology, Hitchcock’s Geology of the Globe, Lesley’s Manual of Coal and his Iron Manufacturer’s Guide, Owen’s Key to the Geology of the Globe, and Whitney’s Metallic Wealth of the United States were among the more important local productions. The publication of by far the greatest importance of this decade was, however, the long-delayed report of the Pennsylvania survey, to which allusion has been made elsewhere— two ponderous quartos which were truly epoch-makine, although many of the more striking features had found their way into print elsewhere. The issuance of Murchison’s Siluria, the ninth edition of Lyell’s Principles, and F. Roemer’s Die Kreidebildungen von Texas were also matters worthy of note. Hitcheock’s Surface Features belongs to this era, and marked the beginning of systematic study along lines of physiography. Among the new names will be found those of W. P. Blake, J. W. Duwson, Leo Lesquereux, Oscar Lieber,

<<<Page: 492>>>

Wiiliam Logan, James G. Percival, J. 5. Newberry, James Safford, G. C. Swallow, Alexander Winchell, and Amos H. Worthen.
An agricultural and geological survey of Mississippi was inaugurated in connection with the State University through an act of the legislature approved March 5, 1850. Under this act Dr. John MilMilliigton and lington was appointed professor of geology and agriMasiesipri isso. Culture, in connection with the professorship of
chemistry, which he already held. Professor Millington, however, relinquished the situation the latter part of 1850 without having made a report, and in 1852 was succeeded by Prof. B. L. C. Wailes. Professor Wailes made but one report, this an octavo volume of 356 pages and an appendix. Of this, but pages 207 to 288 deal with matters strictly geological. The work is by no means of a high order and made no permanent impression upon the science of geology either in the State or country at large. His colored sections are crude and the language pedantic. In fact, there is scarcely a single original observation which can be unhesitatingly accepted, owing to the general air of unfamiliarity with the subject that everywhere prevails. |
He made no attempt to classify the rocks he described otherwise than Cretaceous, Tertiary, and Quaternary, and inferentially classed among the latter the sandstones of the Grand Gulf group, which he mentioned as overlying the Diluvial gravel. He traced correctly, according to Hilgard, the northern limits of Grand Gulf formation from the Mississippi across the Pearl River to Brandon, and described its occurrence in southwestern Mississippl.
In 1851 Ebenezer Emmons, heretofore connected with the survey of New York, was appointed State geologist of North Carolina, a position he continued to hold until the time of his death in 1863, though the Hs Aen aan a work of the survey came to a close in 1860, owing to in North Carolina, the outbreak of the civil war. Emmons was assisted by
his son, Ebenezer Emmons, jr., and during his period of office issued five reports, the first, bearing the date of 1852, forming an octavo pamphlet of 181 pages. It related principally to the denice of the eastern counties and the coal. Emmons recognized the fact that the coal-bearing rocks of North Carolina were not of the same age as those of Pennsylvania, and regarded them as presumably of the same age as those of the Richmond coal fields, which at that time were piought by Prof. W. B. Rogers to be Liassiec, though Emmons questioned if they might not be Permian or Triassic.
The finding of saurian remains in the sandstones he regarded as pointing to their possible Permian age, though—
The meager list of plants and animals * * * furnish only grounds for conjecture to what age the formations belong. My opinion, derived from all the facts and circumstances known to me, inclines me to adopt the belief that it is the upper New

<<<Page: 493>>>

Red sandstone. Still, if the Richmond coal basin is of the same age as the coal rocks of North Carolina, geologists will be disposed to place the series along with the Oolites or Lias, as Profs. W. B. Rogers and Sir Chas. Lyell have done. 4
Emmons in this work rejected completely the old Wernerian classification of (1) Primitive, (2) Transition, and (3) Tertiary, and introduced that given in tabular form below. It seems to have met with little favor, and was not, so far as the present writer is aware, adopted in a single instas ce elsewhere.
I. Pyrocrystalline—crystallized by the agency of fire. Primary of authors. Il. Pyroplastic—molded by fire. Ancient and modern volcanic rock of authors. Ill. Hydroplastic—molded by water. Sediments of authors.
The first class is divided into two sections:
1. Unstratified pyrocrystalline, as granite, hypersthene rock, pyrocrystalline limestone, sienite, magnetic iron ores.
2. Stratified pyrocrystalline gneiss, mica slate, taleose slate, and hornblende steatite.
The second elass is divided into two sections. also:
1. Modern pyroplastic rocks, lavas, tuffs, pumice, and all the products of volcanoes, which are cooled in the air.
2. Ancient pyroplastic rocks, the ancient lavas, cooled under water, basalt, porphyry, and green stone.
The third class is divided into systems, most of which are admitted by geologists of this day.
The systems belonging to the class of hydroplastic rocks, the consolidated and loose sediments, are exhibited in the following table:
I. Tertiary system: 1. Postpliocene. 2. Phocene. 3 Miocene. 4. Eocene. II. Cretaceous system: 1. Upper Cretaceous, including the true chalk, with flints. 2. Lower Cretaceous, including the green sand, iron sands, ete. III. Wealdon, unknown in the United States. ITV. Oolite and Lias. VY. New Red Sandstone or Trias: 1. Upper. 2. Middle. 3. Lower.
W. B. Rogers summed up the evidence regarding the red sandstone of Virginia and North Carolina, and found it ‘‘to confirm the conclusion of their Jurassic date.’’ The fossils thus far formed in the more western red sandstone belt and its extension through Pennsylvania and New Jersey showed this also to be Jurassic, a little lower probably than that of Virginia and North Carolina. He felt that there was little doubt but that the same conclusions would apply also to the sandstone of the Connecticut Valley.

<<<Page: 494>>>

VI. Permian system. VII. Carboniferous system. VIII. Devonian system. IX. Silurian system. 1. Upper. 2. Lower. X. Taconic system. Emmons’s second report, comprising 351 pages, was issued in 1856. It related chiefly to the geology and mines of the so-called midland counties. In 1858 his Report on the Agriculture of the Eastern Counties was issued. About one-third of this, notwithstanding its title, was given up to paleontological matters. In 1860 two more reports, both short, appeared—the one devoted mainly to agriculture and the other a special report on the swamp lands.
In the report for 1858 Emmons announced a principle which has since been enunciated in somewhat different words by our most eminent authority on soils. This, in his own words, is as follows:
In the examination of soils the physical properties require as much attention as the chemical, for in order that a good chemical mixture of elements may be. fertile they should possess a certain degree of adhesiveness or closeness which will retain water.
A good deal of attention was given to the marls of the State with reference to their availability for fertilizing purposes, though he recognized the fect that, unfortunately for the best interests of agriculture, these marls are too sandy to bear transportation to distant points.
A geological survey of Illinois was organized under an act of the general assembly approved February 17, 1851. This act authorized
the governor, auditor, and treasurer to employ a competent geologist, ; who was required to make ‘ta complete geological hee tasi sey, and mineralogical survey of the entire territory of the
State,” and provided that—
The said geologist should proceed to ascertain the order, successive arrangement, relative position, dip, and comparative magnitude of the several strata or geological formations in the State, and to search for and examine all the beds and deposits of ores, coals, clays, marls, rocks, and such other mineral substances as may present themselves; to obtain chemical analyses of the same, and to determine by barometrical observations the relative elevation of the different portions of the State.
He was also required ‘*to procure and preserve an entire suite of the different specimens found in the State, to be preserved and properly arranged in a cabinet, and placed in the office of the secretary of state in the State Capitol;” and eventually ‘‘to publish with the final reports a geological map of the State.”
Under the provisions of this act Dr. J. G. Norwood was appointed State geologist. and the work was begun in October, L851, by an

<<<Page: 495>>>

examination of the formations exposed in the bluffs of the Ohio River between Shawneetown and Cairo.
The act appropriated the sum of $3,000 a year for carrying on the work. In 1853 the amount was increased to $5,000, with $500 additional for topographical purposes. Up to January, 1857, some $27,000 had been expended, though no report appears to have been made.
The usual trials of a State geologist seem to have come upon the path of Mr. Norwood and perhaps some that were unusual. Be that as it may, a committee was appointed to investigate the conditions of the office. The committee reported, however, that in their belief the money had been well expended, a large amount of work had been done, and that well done, and they recommended an appropriation of the sum of $6,500 to enable Mr. Norwood to complete a report on the economic resources of the State, on which he was then engaged.
The report of the committee seems, however, to have failed of its purpose, since the only outcome was a small octavo pamphlet of less than 100 pages devoted wholly to a discussion of the coals of the State, accompanied by a considerable number of analyses. This report bore the date of 1857, and was Norwood’s last as well as first.“ It was accompanied by a small, one-page, colored geological map of the State.
Presumably, all members of the legislature were not as favorably disposed toward Doctor Norwood as were the members of the investigating committee, for the following year (1858) he was supplanted by Mr. A. H. Worthen, who had been connected with James Hall on the State survey of Iowa.
In 1852 the question of the reestablishment of the geological survey of Indiana was agitated, but nothing came of it until the following year, when, acting under a recommendation of Governor J. A. Wright, 2h age Rena the legislature made a small appropriation to become Geological Surveyof available in January, 1854. With this fora beginning, Indiana, 1852. ¥ Pier
the governor appointed Dr. Ryland T. Brown State geologist. The venture was, however, short lived. Brown made but one report, which the legislature refused to publish, and at the same time refused further appropriation for continuing the survey,
“In 1855 Norwood, in connection with Mr. Henry Patton, published in the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences a paper comprising some 77 pages of text relating to the work thus far done.
NAT mus 1904 28

<<<Page: 496>>>

the main reason given for such action being an overvaluation of the Indiana coals on the part of Brown. The report, it should be mentioned, was subsequently published in the report of the board of agriculture.
In 1852, in compliance with a resolution of the United States Senate, Capt. R. B. Marey was directed to proceed ‘‘ without unnecessary delay” to make an examination of the upper Red River and the country immediately bordering
upon it from oO, Shumard’s the: IM@utheor
Cache Creek to its sources. The officers of the expedition, which left Fort Belknap, Texas, on the 2d of May, consisted of Captain Marcy, in charge; Bvt. Capt. George B. McClellan, U.S. Engineer; and Dr.G.G.Shumard, the last named, in addition to
sicana we
S)\ Cor humard, 1849-52.
= M ort Wortho. s — =) i
X ae SN
e Meserontiene © Colorado Ss
a S es. <
g / / his duties as surgeon, acting as cae naturalist. The report subSf
mitted formed an octavo volume of 320 pages with 65 plates, of which 25 may be considered as geological, 6 of these being of invertebrate fossils. The geological part proper comprised but 382 pages, which were by President Edward
Fic. 53.—Map showing routes of Marcy and §
hw Eee < Hitchcock, of Ambherst -Colsite! } Le’ lege. The invertebrate fossils
5 ae ae were described by B. F. Shu\ fi 1 pf
Ned = See mard.
| ics \ I ar 1 1 1 5) : Pac eles \ : Lo Dr. G. G. Shumard’s report ee ee consisted of a brief summary of
the geology of a portion of northwestern Arkansas, which he considered as essential to a proper understanding of that which was to follow, succeeded by memoranda of the various types of rocks, minerals, and formations passed over each day. It was accompanied by a colored geological section from Fort Belknap, Texas, to Washington County, Arkansas, showing a granitic axis flanked on either side by Carboniferous limestone, in its turn overlaid by Coal Measures, and with Cretaceous deposits between Fort Wichita and Cross Timbers in Texas.

<<<Page: 497>>>

In the paleontological report by Dr. B. F. Shumard there were described Carboniferous fossils from Washington and Crawford counties, Arkansas, and Cretaceous forms from Fort Wichita and the Cross Timbers regions of Texas.
Hitchcock, in his report, dwelt particularly on the possible Carboniferous age of various beds of coal, reported by Shumard, and the economic value of the gypsum, as well as the ores of copper and gold. His reference to the canyons of the Red River is particularly interesting in view of his early writings regarding the Connecticut (p. 310):
You seem in doubt whether this gorge was worn away by the river or is the result of some paroxysmal convulsion. You will allow me to say that I have scarcely any doubt that the stream itself has done the work. The fact that when a tributary stream enters the main river it passes through a tributary canyon seems to me to show conclusively that these gorges were produced by erosion and not by fracture.
Two papers on the subjects of rock decay and erosion, of this year, are worthy of consideration. Prof. Oliver P. Hubbard, of Dartmouth College, during a study of the trap dikes, noted that the same could be Se ae traced continuously across pane the country, at varying
levels, from mountain top to valley bottom. From this fact he argued that the valleys had been carved out through decomposition and erosion since the dikes were formed. The difference in altitude at the various outcrops gave, then, a measure yee of the amount of erosion. Fic. 54.—Oliver Payson Hubbard.
Dana’s observations, though of a somewhat different nature, were none the less interesting. In writing on denudation in the Pacific, he took the ground that the ocean is powerless to excavate valleys along the coast, and that the deep valleys like those of Tahiti are due to subaerial decomposition and erosion, an observation no geologist of to-day would venture to doubt.
In March, 1853, by resolution of the senate of the State of California, Dr. John B. Trask was called upon to furnish information in relation to the geology of the State. Asa result Doctor Trask subeae mitted material issued in a pamphlet of 30 pages, pubSurvey of lished by the assembly in the session of 1853. By a
joint resolution which passed the senate and assembly on May 6, 1853, Trask was authorized to make a further examination of some parts of the Sierra Nevada and Coast Range mountains. As a result of this and subsequent acts there were issued reports on the geology of the region mentioned in 1854, 1855, and 1856.

<<<Page: 498>>>

The classification adopted by Trask was that of the older geologists of his time, the rocks being divided merely into Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary. Although fossils were found, he did not attempt to describe them, and seemed in most cases to fail to realize their value as indicative of any particular geological horizon. His ideas regarding metamorphism were somewhat crude. Thus, he stated in his first report:
“It is a well-known fact that intrusive dikes of trap in passing through limestone will change the calcareous formation to true talcose rocks.
He divided the State into three divisions: First, a primary or central district, included between latitude 38° 30’ and 40° north; second, the northern district, included between 40° and 42° north; and third, the southern district, included between 38° 30’ and 36° north. The rocks of the primary district, he stated, are for the most part primitive, being composed of granite, porphyry, trap, and other allied rocks, of which serpentines form the one important part. The sedimentary rocks of the district were divided into first, argelite (sic), slates; second, conglomerates; and third, sandstones, the last named being regarded as probably of Miocene age.
The rocks in the northern district were described as of essentially the same character,a few minor differences only being noted. F v The southern district contained many rocks
F1@. 55.—John Boardman Trask. In common with the other two, although
there were in addition many basaltie areas. He found a primary limestone in the area between the American and Merced rivers, and evidence of at least three successive periods of upheaval in this portion of the continent.
In his second report he described the geology of the most elevated portions of the counties of Butte, Sierra, Yuba, Nevada, and Placer; also the more southern counties of San Francisco, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Monterey; the north part of San Luis Obispo, Tulare, Mariposa, Tuolumne, Alameda, Contra Costa, and San Joaquin. During the months of October and November he visited Nevada and Calaveras counties. He pointed out the presence of post-Pliocene fossils in argillaceous sandstone of the Coast mountains between Point Pinos and Nacismiento River. He divided the Tertiary rocks as below:

<<<Page: 499>>>

Period, Group. Where found, | Boceneys sets. ceee ile Kale a tees os eae Calaveras County, at Murphys and other localities. Bones of extinct animals, ete. INNO GENE Mer ree a nee tee eet: Soe | North and south of San Francisco in the
| Coast and Monte Diablo mountains. | Consisting of marine shells, with most | of the species extinct.
Phoeene 2% ssl see Mhenwerke <2-85e n>" | Coast mountains and Gabilan Spur. Also in cavern deposits in Calaveras County.
Post-Plioceme ..-.-.:--|.--.-----.---.----| Southwest of Monterey. Marine shells,
all of existing species.
He had no hesitation in saying that no coal would be found in any part of the Coast Range south of the thirty-fifth parallel of north latitude, though the presence of a supposed Carboniferous limestone in Shasta County led him to express a hope that the desired material might yet be found within the limits of the State.¢ In his report for 1855 the predominating fossiliferous rocks of San Luis Obispo and Santa Barbara counties were considered to be of Miocene age. The San Bernardino Mountains were described as made up for the most part of primitive rocks, granite forming by far the larger part of their highest ridges and peaks.
In this connection it is well to note that, at the request of A. D. Bache, of the Coast Survey, W. P. Blake prepared in 1855 a brief paper on the physical geology and geography of the coast of California from Bodega Bay to San Diego. Blake regarded the sedimentary rocks of Punta de los Reyes as probably of Miocene age, the sandstone at the entrance of San Francisco Bay as Tertiary, and the metamorphic rock of the peninsula as an altered sandstone. The serpentine of Lime Point was shown to be eruptive, as was also the granite of Cypress Point and the Bay of San Carlos, and younger than the conglomerate.
This same year (1853) there was organized a geological survey of Missouri with G. C. Swallow at its head, and Dr. A. Litton, F. B. Meek, Maj. F. Hawn, and Dr. B. F. Shumard as assistants. Five reports ee aaterua re published, ; The first, bearing the date Novem2S EE ber 10, 1853, consisted of but four pages. The second,
dated 1854, comprised over 400 pages, including the reports of the assistants above mentioned. None of the sections nor maps given were colored, nor were any new principles or striking
“These hopes were partially realized, lignite coal, but of Cretaceous age, having been found and to some extent worked in Alameda, Amador, Contra Costa, Fresno, Kern, Monterey, Orange, Riverside, and San Bernardino counties.

<<<Page: 500>>>

features brought out. The work as a whole is an extremely uninteresting array of details, essential to the geographical extension of @eological knowledge. Some space was devoted to economic geology, a consideration of soils, ete. Doctor Litton’s report consisted almost wholly of details of lead, copper, and iron mines. Perhaps the most important economic item in Meek’s report was his calling attention to the limited area of the coal beds, which lie in narrow basins in the encrinal limestone.
The third annual report of progress (6 pages) appeared in 1857, the fourth (14 pages) in 1859, and the fifth (19 pages) in 1861. G. C. Broadhead, who later was himself State geologist, became an assistant during 1857-1861, J. G. Norwood in 1858-1861, Henry Engelmann in 1857, and Dr. John Locke in 1860.
During the period which intervened between the publication of the second report and the stopping of the survey in 1861, a large portion of the State had been visited by members of the corps, and full reports were written on the following counties: Cape Girardeau, Perry, St. Genevieve, Jefferson, Crawford, Phelps, Pulaski, Laclede, Wright, Ozark (including Douglas), Clark, Morgan, Miller, Saline, Chariton, Macon, Randolph, Shelby, Osage, and Maries.
After the survey had been discontinued the legislature authorized L. D. Morse and G. C. Swallow to publish all the results of the work of the previous seven years, but the project was abandoned on account of the expense.
While nearly all the State and land-oftice surveys organized up to 1850 had economic ends in view, and while, further, numerous papers of a more or less economic character had appeared from the. hands of various writers from time to time, yet J.D. Whitney’s _ literature relating to American ore deposits remained the United States, scant and of an extremely unsatisfactory character. Bos The appearance in 1854 of Whitney’s Metallic Wealth of the United States marked, therefore, an important epoch. The work comprised upward of 500 octavo pages, and though written with especial reference to the ore deposits of the United States, contained references to those of all the principal foreign localities as well and remained the standard work of reference up to the time of the appearance of Kemp’s Ore Deposits of the United States in 1893.
Many of the principles set down by Whitney have, naturally, been
Fig. 56.—Garland Carr Broadhead.

<<<Page: 501>>>

shown to be erroneous, as he himself lived to recognize. Thus, regarding the occurrence of gold, he wrote:
In general it may be said that the older the geological formation the greater the probability of its containing valuable ores and metals.
And further:
There is room for doubt whether the great gold deposits of the world did not originate exclusively-in the Paleozoic strata, since we are not aware that the rocks which have been proved to be of Azoic age have been found to be auriferous.
In this, it will be noted, he followed the teaching of Murchison.
To the reader of to-day it will seem scarcely possible that, at the date of Whitney’s writing, there were no mines worked for silver alone in the United States, the supply of the metal coming almost wholly from the native gold of California. Argentiferous galena had been worked to a slight extent, as at the Washington mine in Davidson County, North Carolina, but work was suspended at the time of his writing. How little the silver resources of the West were realized is shown by Whitney’s comment on the rapid increase of the gold output from year to year and the comparative decrease in that of silver. He wrote:
Silver is, in a geological point of view, the metal best adapted fora standard of value, since, possessing all the valuable qualities which make gold suitable for that purpose, it is not liable to those fluctuations in its production to which this latter is exposed. There is no discovery of a new continent to be looked forward to whose mines shall deluge the world with silver, and any increase in the amount of this metal produced must come chiefly from the working of mining regions already known.
Yet Whitney himself lived to see the annual output of American silver become so great as to practically remove it from the list of precious metals and cause it to be rejected for all but subsidiary coinage.
Whitney recognized the fact that none of the.deposits of lead in the Mississippi Valley could be considered as coming under the head of true veins (i. e., fissure veins), and that the productive deposits did not generally exceed a hundred feet in thickness in the Galena (Lower Silurian) limestone immediately overlying the Trenton. No ore of consequence was known to occur in the so-called ‘t Blue Limestone ” (Trenton, Bird’s-eye, Chazy, and Black River) and it was not considered probable that the fissures would ever be found to extend through the intervening sandstone into the Lower Magnesian beds. Sinking through the sand into these latter beds was, therefore, considered as mere random exploration and a foolish enterprise.
He classified the ore deposits as (1) simple alluvial deposits which were recognized as residual from the decomposing limestone; (2) deposits in vertical fissures which had a very limited longitudinal extent, and (3) deposits in flat sheets. All of these were regarded as

<<<Page: 502>>>

deposits from aqueous solution which took place either in depressions of the surface or in vertical fissures of the nature of gash veins produced by the shrinkage of the calcareous strata.“
These views differed from the more modern in that it is now deemed as, probable that the ores were first precipitated in an ocean in which they were held in solution as sulphates and reduced to sulphides through the decomposing organic matter; that subsequently, through the action of percolating surface waters, the same were once more oxidized, segregated in the fissures, and reduced a second time to the condition of sulphides. The production of the mines in the Mississippi Valley he regarded as having even then reached its maximum.
Whitney recognized the eruptive nature of the Iron Mountain masses of Missouri, and apparently regarded the hematite ores of the Lake Superior region as also of an eruptive nature (see also p. 417), though the later work of Van Hise has shown them to have had a chemical origin. Concerning the specular and magnetic iron ores of New York, he thought to have found the evidence of direct eruptive origin as perhaps less conspicuous, many exhibiting appearances of secondary action, such as might have been brought about by volcanic agencies and powerful currents which swept away and abraded portions of the original eruptive masses, ‘‘ rearranging their particles and depositing them again in the depressions of the strata.” The lenticular beds of ore occurring parallel with the stratification were particularly referred to as originating in this way.
A year later (November, 1855) Whitney had in the American Journal of Science an article on the changes which take place in the structure and composition of mineral veins, which is of interest in connection with the recent revival of the subject of secondary enrichment of ore deposits. He here described the now well-known copper deposits of Ducktown, Tennessee, and the superficial alteration of the vein matter, and called attention to the fact that the black ore, then being mined, was formed by a process of natural concentration by surface water, which was constantly decomposing the material above the permanent water level and carrying it downward to the point where it was stopped by the solid portion of the vein. By this means a large portion of the copper once disseminated throughout perhaps 100 feet of vein stone ‘had become concentrated into a thickness of perhaps 2 or 3 feet. :
In June, 1854, Lewis Harper, or properly, Ludwig Hafner, was elected by the trustees to the chair of geology in the University of
“Dr. Henry King, in a sketch of the geology of the Mississippi Valley, read before the Association of American Geologists and Naturalists in 1844, and printed in the American Journal of Science for that year, argued that the ores of zine, copper, and lead occurring in the Cliff limestone were deposited contemporaneously with the inclosing rock.

<<<Page: 503>>>

Mississippi, which act, under the law, constituted him also as State geologist, and Millington, whose work is mentioned on p. 430, was Bea Wektis forced to resign. . ts
Mississippi, In 1855 Harper was relieved of a portion of his
duties as instructor in the university m order that he might personally take the field, and an appropriation of $1,000 secured for the employment of an assistant geologist, which place was offered to Kugene W. Hiigard, then fresh from studies at Heidelberg. Hilgard and Harper worked together during the season of 1855, but the dual position of State geologist and professor in the university proved unsatisfactory to the trustees; the law was repealed in 1856, and Harper also forced to resign, though Hilgard was continued as an assistant.
_ At the legislative session of 1856-57 Harper succeeded in securing the passage of an act providing for the printing of the second annual report of the agricultural and geological survey of the State and for other purposes. This resulted in a complete separation of the survey from all connection with the State university, the establishment of a geological survey, and the oflice of a State geologist at a salary of $2,000 a year, with an appropriation of $1,200 for fitting up a chemical laboratory. Three thousand five hundred dollars was appropriated for the publication of Harper’s report. Concerning this report, Hilgard remarks:
It need only be said that it is a literary, linguistic, and scientific curiosity, and probably unique in official publications of its kind. It was the labored effort of a sciolist to show erudition, and to compass the impossible feat of interpreting and discussing intelligently a considerable mass of observations, mostly recorded by another, working on a totally different plan from himself.
The report contained a colored geological map of the State which, though less detailed, corresponded in a general way with that published later (1860) by Hilgard. Indeed, there is every reason for supposing that the map itself was compiled largely from Hilgard’s notes. The work, like its predecessor, had little influence upon geological thought, and was, if not ignored, unfavorably reviewed by the journals of the day. The circulation of this report throughout the State brought discredit upon its author to such an extent that, toward the end of the year (1857), he was obliged to resign his office.“
“This Geological Report on Mississippi is very unequal in its different parts and requires a careful revision before it can become good authority. Many of the sections have a fantastic boxing off of layers which is quite unintelligible to us. Certain rocks are pronounced to be Carboniferous, because the genus productus occurring in them is not known to exist, the author says, in older strata. Some peculiar concentric aggregations in clay are attributed to whirlpools in the waters. The work argues against the subdivisions of the Eocene proposed by Conrad on very insufficient data and an evident want of appreciation of the subject. There are errors, also, in the identification of the Cretaceous, Tertiary, and post-Tertiary beds which betray insufficient observations and an imperfect acquaintance with the science. (Am. Jour. Sci. )

<<<Page: 504>>>

Under an act of the Wisconsin legislature, approved March 25, 1853, Edward Daniels was appointed State geologist, but at the end of the year was superseded by Dr. J.G. Percival, whose work in Connecticut
has been already referred to (p. 329). Daniels’s first Witvonan isse and only annual report, bearing date of 1854, con-
sisted of a small octavo pamphlet of 82 pages, devoted largely to a consideration of the lead fields. One geological section in black and white was given, extending across the lead mines from the Mississippi River opposite Dubuque to the Blue Mounds. The rocks were classified, beginning with the uppermost, as (1) coralline beds, (2) gray limestone, (3) blue limestone, (4) buff limestone, (5) sandstone, (6) lower magnesian limestone, and (7) the sandstone of the Wisconsin River. A vertical section was also given showing the succession and relative thickness of the rocks underlying the lead regions. In this last the gray limestone was given as the prevailing ‘‘ surface rock of the mines, containing veins of lead, and, in its lower beds, zinc and copper.”
Daniels found evidence, as he thought, to strengthen the conjecture of Owen to the effect that the Lower Magnesian limestone would be found to contain lead ore in workable quantities.
Aside from the above-noted publication, Daniels was the author of an article on the Iron Ores of Wisconsin, in the report of the geological survey of Wisconsin for 1857 (62 pages), and a brief note regarding the lead district of Wisconsin, which appeared in the Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History in 1854.
According to Hall, Daniels in 1855 first pointed out the unconformity of the western coal measures with the older rocks, though J. W. Foster in 1856 published a section showing a similar unconformity, the discovery of which he credited to Norwood.
Doctor Percival, who succeeded Daniels, received his appointment in August, 1854, and served until the time of his death, which occurred on May 2, 1856. Two reports, in the form of octavo pamphlets of Belgie Caen about 100 pages each, were issued as the result of his Survey of Wisconsin, work. Like his previous work in Connecticut, these
reports are extremely prosy and made up largely of very minute descriptions of the lithological nature of the various rock formations of the State, their geographic distribution and relative position. Fossils were mentioned only occasionally, and, otherwise than his reference to them as primary and secondary rocks, there is no suggestion as to their probable geological age, with the exception of the reference in the second report to the fact that the so-called ‘*‘ Mound limestone” had been regarded from its fossils as equivalent to the Niagara limestone. The character of the ore deposits, and the position, number, and character of the veins were noted with great detail,

<<<Page: 505>>>

and ina single instance he indulged in a little speculation regarding the origin of the ore:
The appearances seem no less to indicate the origin of the mineral and the accompanying ores from beneath, probably from the primary rocks underlying the lowest secondary; and that they rose in such a condition that they were diffused through a certain definite extent of the materials of the rocks, and then segregated in their present form, and this along certain lines which have determined their arrangement.
April 8, 1854, D. D. Owen was appointed State geologist of Kentucky, a position which he continued to fill until the time of his death in 1860. During this time there were issued four large octavo reports, Sea here Tea comprising, all told, upward of 2,000 pages, with Survey of Kentucky, sections, maps, and plates of fossils. Owen was assisted at first by Dr. Robert Peter, chemist, and Sidney T. Lyon, topographer; later, Leo Lesquereux, paleobotanist, EK. T. Cox, geologist, and Joseph Lesley, topographer, were added to the force.
Owen divided the formations of the State as follows, beginning with the uppermost: (1) Superticial deposits, (2) the Coal Measures, (3) sub-Carboniferous limestone, (4) Black lingula shales, (5) Gray coraline falls limestone, (6) the Chain coral and Upper Cliff limestone, and (7) the Blue, Shell, and Bird’s-eye limestone, the last named being the most ancient of any yet found within the State limits.
As with a majority of Owen’s works, these reports are given up largely to economic niatters, to descriptions of the coal, iron ores, building stones, and other useful minerals.
A local epidemic of milk sickness in cattle was examined into in considerable detail by Owen, who concluded that the disease was ‘‘intimately connected with the geological formation,” and probably due to the presence of soluble salts of aluminum, iron, and magnesia, produced in the shales by the decomposition of iron pyrites. He showed an amusing tendency to magnify the importance of minor matters in suggesting that the animals at pasture may have become weakened and peculiarly susceptible to disease through breathing, while feeding with the nostrils close to the ground, an atmosphere deficient in oxygen, the abstraction of this element being due to the oxidation of the pyrite in the surface rock.
Concerning the roe or oolitic structure of the sub-Carboniferous limestone, he wrote, the structure ‘‘seems to have been formed in eddies where the water circled round in spiral or funnel-shaped currents which kept particles of fine sand revolving in such a manner that they acquired concentric calcareous coatings, until, having attained the size of fish roe, their gravity was sufficient to overcome the power of suspension of the rotary currents, when they sunk to the bottom.” In consideration of the fact that this oolitic structure is now known

<<<Page: 506>>>

to prevail over many hundred square miles of area, this explanation seems scarcely sufficient.
Peter’s work on the chemical composition of the soil was very thorough, and, taken all in all, the work done by this survey on problems relating to the soil was of greater importance than any previously produced. The method followed by Doctor Peter himself has, however, been proven by recent work to be of comparatively little value, the fertility of a soil, as announced years earlier by Emmons, being’ dependent more upon its physical than chemical properties.
In 1855 G. G. Shumard accompanied, in the capacity of geologist, the expedition under command of Captain Pope for the purpose of boring artesian wells upon the western plains along the line of the G.G.Shumara’s _ thirty-second parallel. An abstract of his report was WithPoee "given in the Transactions of the St. Louis Academy of Expedition, 1855. Sciences, I, 1856-1860, though, so far as can be ascertained, no tinal report ever appeared. .
Shumard announced the finding of Permian fossils about 30 miles above the mouth of Delaware Creek, in the country lying between the Rio Pecos and the Rio Grande. At Delaware Creek the oldest rocks were Cretaceous, overlaid by Quaternary. The Guadalupe Mountains he described as consisting of white, gray, and
bluish-black limestone, containing: fossils, some of which appeared to belong to the “Coal Measures and others to the Permian, the beds being finally set downas of Permian age. The Sierra Alto was shown to have a eranitic nucleus, from which the stratified a rocks dip away on either side. TG AT Oanus Montwomers Lichen Silurian rocks were found in the El Paso Mountains, and the Jornada del Muerto was shown to be a small trough composed mostly of limestone, sandstone, and shales, covered to a depth of 5 or 6 feet with loose detritus. The upheaved edges of these underlying strata formed the mountains on either side. The Organ Mountains were shown to be of limestone, belonging to the Coal Measures.
By an act of the legislature of the State of South Carolina in 1855 Oscar M. Lieber was appointed director of the geological, mineralogical, and agricultural survey of the State, a position which he held Slee OSHL ae oe: During this period he made four annual South Carolina, reports, the first bearing date of 1857 and the last 1860. 1855-1860. BLM Sea : ;
This, it will be remembered, was the third survey of the State undertaken at public expense, the first being purely agricultural, under the direction of Edmund Ruftin, and the second geological and agricultural, under direction of M. Tuomey.

<<<Page: 507>>>

In the reports of Lieber matters of both theoretic and economic nature received attention, though an undue amount of space was perhaps devoted to a discussion of the itacolumite, which he considered to be a true sandstone. He differed in this respect with Mr. Tuomey. Its flexibility he regarded as not due to decomposition, but rather to its fineness of grain and admixture of mica or talc, delicately laminated structure, and a certain degree of compactness in the constituents of each lamina. In this he was mistaken. He discussed the origin of the rock, and compared it with the itacolumite of Brazil in its relation to the diamond. ;
A peculiar tendency on the part of Lieber to use outlandish terms, particularly Brazilian Portuguese, is manifested in this report. Thus, in his paper on the itacolumite and its associated rocks, he mentions finding the ‘‘tapanhoancanga, or canga, which sometimes passed into a reddish quader-sandstone.” He also wrote of the ‘‘ oryctognostic” composition of the rock, and designated a prospector as a ‘‘costeaner.”
He classified the igneous rocks of the State, commencing with the newest, as:
f Eurite and quartz porphyry (?). Trachytic rocks: | Coarse trachyte of eastern Lancaster. Domite, phonolith. Trappean rocks: Diorite and Diorite slate, soapstone (?), Talcose trap (?). Melaphyre, Egeran (?).
Ceres Aphanitic porphyry.
Coarse-grained granite, etc., of Taxahaw (syenite).
Other granite and gneiss.
(The marks of interrogation with some of these denote that their exact relative position is not established. )
Lieber’s views regarding mineral veins and ore deposits were largely influenced by those of European authorities, but, nevertheless, he entertained certain independent ideas which at this date are instructive. He believed with Werner that the veins were filled crevices, but thought them to have been filled from below rather than from above; that is, the minerals constituting the veins he regarded as having been derived from the interior of the planet and brought to the surface by mineral waters or steam, where they were deposited chiefly in the crevices themselves, the surplus only distributing itself among the surface waters, whence it was afterward precipitated.
He argued against the idea that the veins had been filled by the leaching action of water permeating the rocks on either side, saying:
Entirely the reverse is, however, the case. Thus, minerals which belong to the veins but which are found in the country were in reality derived from the former; the vein crevices were the first reservoirs, and the few scattering particles of the minerals of the veins which we find in the adjacent country rocks found their way into the latter by elimination or secretion and by sublimation from the surcharged vein crevices.

<<<Page: 508>>>

Concerning the variation in vein structure and the changes of the contents of veins at various depths, he wrote:
Except in those few cases where the enrichment of a vein is due to extraneous or superficial causes, we may safely say that veins gain in the quantity of their metaldiferous contents as we leave the surface; that is to say, the lodes increase in diameter and in the compactness of their ores.
Thus do we find one who was the best authority in the State promulgating a theory wholly erroneous and misleading.
The question of the origin of gold received consideration, and the opinion was expressed that ‘tthe gold in some igneous rocks with us and elsewhere may have been brought up with the fluid masses from beneath, but it may also have been imparted by the solution of auriferous sedimentary rocks traversed at the period of injection.” While noting that dikes exerted a conspicuous influence on the discernible presence of gold, he believed that these did not impart the metal, or if they did, only in exceptional cases, and that as a rule certain sedimentary rocks must be regarded as the true source of the gold into which it was infused at the time of their deposition, though by what means or from what source he found it impossible even to guess.
Each of the reports was accompanied by two or more colored geognostic maps, in which the various formations were grouped according to their lithological nature rather than according to their geological age.
In 1855 there appeared Dawson’s Acadian Geology, a small octavo volume of but 388 pages, but which, through successive editions, grew, by 1878, to nearly 800 pages. This in all its editions was by far the
most important production of this most prolific writer.“ Qawson’s seatian = The edition of 1855 contained a colored geological
map of the region and purported to give in a condensed form what was known of the more general features of the peninsula. A discussion of the views held, and as subsequently modified, can well be reserved until we come to the edition of 1878.
A very large proportion of Dawson’s geological papers related to the Coal Measures of Nova Scotia and their included plant and animal remains. His first publications on these subjects date back to 1843.
As early as 1853 he announced, in connection with SN a Lyell, the finding, at the base of an upright fossil tree aera trunk in these Coal Measures, of bones identified by Jeffries Wyman and Richard Owen as those of a reptile or batrachian, to which the name Dendrerpeton acadianum was applied. The igi of the shell of a terrestrial mollusk was also announced at the same time.
Dawson also made important observations regarding the origin of the various coal beds. He felt that the conditions indicated the existence at one time of a long succession of oscillations between tert ecunel and
a Deana 8 DipHOseapli: sone upward ue 360 titles, of a & ‘Jeast nine were books.

<<<Page: 509>>>

aquatic circumstances, which were not accompanied by any material permanent change in the nature of the surface of the land and its organized inhabitants. He conceived that the elevation and depression of large areas were not absolutely contemporaneous, but such that by a mere change of place one could have passed from a coal swamp to a modiola lagoon or a tidal sand flat.
In the Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society for 1859 Dawson had another important paper on the vegetable -structures in the coal in which he announced that the vegetable matter of these beds consists principally of Sigillarie and Calamitee. With these, however, he found intermixed remains of many other plants.
The structure of the coal as he here found it conformed to the view that the materials were accumulated by growth in place without any driftage of materials. The rate of accumulation he thought to have been very slow, the climate of the period being such that the true conifers grew not more rapidly than their modern congeners. Making all due allowances, he felt safe in asserting that every foot of thickness of pure bituminous coal implied the growth and fall of at least fifty generations of Sigillariz and, therefore, an undisturbed condition of forest growth enduring through many ¢enturies.
In this same journal for 1865, under the title of On the Conditions of the Deposition of Coal, he again referred to the subject. Writing with reference only to the beds of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick and their associated sediments, he showed that the coarser matter of the Carboniferous rocks was derived from the neighboring metamorphic ridges, but much of the finer material was probably drifted from more distant sources. He thought there was no good reason to doubt that in the Carboniferous period the greater part of the Laurentian and Silurian districts of North America existed as land. Considering the relative position and lithological nature of the beds of the Carboniferous period, and comparing them with those of other periods of the Paleozoic age in eastern America, he thought to find indications of the existence of periodic cycles such that similar beds were deposited at corresponding periods in each, the parallelism being tabulated as below:
(The several formations are arranged in descending order.)
Character of group. Lower Silurian. | Upper Silurian. Devonian, Carboniferous. a = aes | Shallow, subsiding marine | Hudson River | Lower Helder| Chemung group..) Upper coal forarea, filling up with sedigroup. berg group. mation. ment. | Elevation, followed by slow | Utica shale ..... Salina group ...-| Hamilton group..) Coal Measures. subsidence, land, — surfaces, ete. ~ 50 EA oe é | ‘ Marine conditions; forma| Trenton, Black | Niagara and | Corniferous lime| Lower Carbontion of limestones, ete. River, and | Clinton limestone. | iferous limeChazy lime| stones. stone. stones. Subsidence; disturbances; | Potsdam and |) Oneidaand Me| Oriskany sand-| Lower Coal deposition of coarse sediCalciferous dina sandstone. Measures and ment. | sandstones. stones. conglomerate.

<<<Page: 510>>>

In an article communicated to the Natural History Society of Montreal in 1860, Dawson claimed to recognize ‘‘ among the partially metamorphosed sub-Carboniferous rocks of Nova Scotia, formations ranging from the Middle Silurian to the Lower Devonian, inclusive, but of a more argillaceous and less calcareous character than the series occupying this position in the mainland of America.” The granites (intrusives) he regarded as of newer Devonian age, and the Arisaig series as representing ‘*the upper part of the Middle Silurian, probably with a part of the Upper Silurian, a position much lower than that assigned to it in my Acadian Geology.”
In 1853 Jules Marcou, a Frenchman who had come to America in 1848, published a geological map of the United States and the British Provinces of North America, with 92 octavo pages of explanatory ee ne text, two geological sections, and eight plates of the Hoos Sane: — fossils which characterize the formations. The map, soe: which was colored by hand, extended as far west as the one hundred and sixth meridian, and the geological sections, not colored, extended, the first from the Atlantic Ocean at Yorktown, Virginia, to Fort Laramie, Nebraska, and the second from Lake St. Johns in the Hudson Bay Territory to Mobile, Alabama.
The author adopted the formation names established by M. de Verneuil and Murchison, in order to render possiblea satisfactory comparison with the existing geological maps of England, Germany, Russia, Scandinavia, and Bohemia. The divisions Cambrianand Taconic, however, were not recognized, since, in the opinion of the compiler,
ee an oeipraae they ‘Sought to disappear from geological
classification, for they give two names to the
metamorphic rocks, of which they are integrant parts, in all regions where these beds have been observed.” “
Perhaps the most striking feature of the map, at least that in which it differs the most from those of later date, lay in the enormous development of the Devonian, which is made to occupy a large portion of southern New York, as now, and to extend thence in a continuous, broad, but gradually narrowing band southwesterly to near Tuscaloosa, in Alabama. A continuous belt was also indicated as extending from the east side of the south end of Lake Michigan westerly nearly to the Missouri River. The brown Triassic sandstones of the Kastern States were colored as Kouper yellow), and the belt’ west Moe Rich-
“This statement eerie the Taconic is a little surprising when one considers the part Marcou played in the subsequent controversy (see p. 659).

<<<Page: 511>>>

mond and one near Raton Mountains, in New Mexico, as Lias or Jurassic (blue). A band of Keuper was also represented as extending from the eastern end of the south shore of Lake Superior quite across the Coteau des Prairies to the ninety-eighth meridian. A continuous band, colored as composed of granite porphyry, syenite, greenstone, eneiss, mica-schist, etc., was represented as extending from below the twenty-fourth parallel in Mexico northward to the great bend of the North Platte in Wyoming, where it was overlain by Silurian, Devonian, Coal Measures, and Keuper strata, the latter flanked on the north by a broad band of ‘*‘ copper trap.” Here again the series extended westerly to the edge of the map and northeasterly to a point about midway between Mandan and the Little Missouri River in Dakota.
This attempt on the part of Marcou was certainly commendable, requiring courage as well as judgment. Unfortunately, Marcou does not seem to have used discretion in all cases in the selection of his authorities, and made altogether too sweeping generalizations, often in direct contradiction of facts made known by other workers.
In 1855, 1858, and again in 1872 Marcou published in Germany and France other editions of his map, in which he comprised the whole country from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. Perhaps the most striking feature of these issues is the enormous area of country west of the Missouri at Iowa and extending almost to Great Salt Lake and the Colorado River in Arizona, colored as red sandstone (Trias), with broad intercallations of Jurassic. This feature is the same on issues of both 1855 and 1858, although in the map of 1853 he colored the same area (at least as far as this map extended) Cretaceous, Tertiary, and Quaternary. In the edition of 1855 the entire west coast of California south of Humboldt and as far down as Monterey was colored as occupied by eruptive and metamorphic rocks, while broad belts in the interior, along the courses of the main rivers, were colored as Tertiary. In the edition of 1858 this was in part corrected, the Tertiary being extended to the coast.
The various editions of these maps, on account of the errors mentioned and numerous others perhaps even more inexcusable, though less conspicuous, were severely criticised by American geologists, a particularly harsh review of the 1853 map being given by James Hall in the American Journal of Science for March, 1854, and of that of 1855 by W. P. Blake in the same journal for November, 1856.
During 1853 numerous expeditions were sent out by the War
Department for the purpose of exploring routes for Shevetieeairoa’ the proposed railroad from the Mississippi Valley to
the Pacific coast. These were in all cases under the immediate command of officers of the Army, but to nearly all one or more naturalists or geologists were attached.
NAT Mus 1904 29

<<<Page: 512>>>

The published results of these explorations, geological aad otherwise, form the thirteen quarto volumes of Pacific Railroad Reports, so well known to all naturalists. Among those who accompanied the expeditions and whose reports gave almost the first authoritative and systematic accounts of the geology of the regions passed over were Jules Marcou, whose geological map has been mentioned; W. P. Blake, of New Haven, Connecticut; Thomas Antisell, James Schiel, and J. 5. Newberry.
109 105 Le L.Mahi: | eee hh NW | ° Medicin) H ee a A waka Fo Peind HP® RegingA8sin A. > {os aes
i Sen oe = ia | SAT Seth ae 7 | j
~ 9 Boj, (oe ) b *“LOWsTone SI == Ses Mt «i NATIONAL oA 1 fe
\ i a m R~ N Hear PAR (Deatwoolts pe oes gq N/ is a J|\! SOUTH AK Ko Po, Pee aR Coa | peonale
] \ catello eo M < HSS White
zt SS : CS sf Ne St.Paul 1 eee?
¢ 5 t aK , iL Sie i Xe ‘yi ‘5 Mankato Divo eat Ghe NSS)
$--—-—-
1M Emporia—L |
rows saoxep 3 Yi Sos Pa TERRITORY trot sere, peapeo “V" Dexatkanai (ls ~aatte.
0 \, Casas Grandes \@
Zp | \ a \ Ar. \\ West
™ Ortezuma & | \Presidio —.
Cixda SS i ;
~ Tt —Austinea 4;
~ eChituahua / a4 EEE S70 | rey lies apo 7 Se J B0Ls0n Seto OE ~ MAPIMI ” i> . J road 25. SS y, a
Mexico
101 97
Fie. 59.—Map showing principal routes of exploring parties in connection with Pacific Railroad surveys.
Marcou received his appointment in May, 1853, with orders to join Lieut. A. W. Whipple in the exploration of a route near the thirty-_ fifth parallel of latitude. The route followed lay by way of Fort Smith, Arkansas; westward through Albuquerque and Santa Fe, New Mexico, to Los Angeles, California, and occupied the period between

<<<Page: 513>>>

June 2, 1853, and March 26, 1854. On returning to Washington, June 1, 1854, Marcou, on the plea of ill health, asked permission to Marcou’s work in WOlK up his results in Europe; and, acting apparently ponnection with the under a misunderstanding, proceeded to pack his own SUI 3 collections, together with others made by the party under Captain Pope along the thirty-second parallel, and made preparations to leave the country on September 27. This procedure seems, however, to have displeased the then Secretary of War (Jefferson Davis), who insisted, under date of September 25, that the report be made out in this country. It being then too late, as claimed, for Mr. Marcou to change his plans, he was allowed to depart, but instructed under threat of prosecution to turn over all collections and notebooks, ‘the property of the Government, to the accredited representative of the United States at Paris. Naturally this treatment aroused considerable indignation on the part of Marcou, though it is doubtful if he was justified in his subsequent proceedings. Such of the collections and notes as were returned were placed in the hands of W. P. Blake to be worked up, but, while there is no reason for criticising the latter, the report was not all that could have been desired.“ It is a painful fact, moreover, that none of Marcou’s types were returned to America, but were, by him, distributed to English and continental museums, one of the collections being now in the possession of the Geological Society of London.
Betore leaving for Europe, however, and before becoming aware of the intentions of the Secretary of War, Marcou made two brief reports or summaries—one of the route traversed by himself, and the other on the materials collected by Captain Pope’s party. These were published in House Document No. 129 and were republished, together with other papers by the same author, in Zurich in 1858, under the title of Geology of North America, with Two Reports on the Prairies of Arkansas and Texas, the Rocky Mountains of New Mexico and the Sierra Nevada of California. The latter work was accompanied by a geological map of the United States and a section across the country from Fort Smith to the Pacific Ocean, the same being a reprint of a map published by him in 1855 in the Bulletin of the Geological Society of France and in the Annales des Mines for the same year. (Referred to on p. 449.) It also contained a colored map of an area from 35 to 75 miles in width across New Mexico along the thirty-fifth parallel, hearing date of 1857, and a reproduction of Maclure’s map, the original of which bore date of 1809.
In this summary Marcou identified certain horizontal beds overlying the Carboniferous limestones as Triassic, a formation which on the
“Marcou’s original notes and Blake’s translation of the same were published in parallel columns in the third volume of the Pacific Railroad Reports.

<<<Page: 514>>>

basis of his geological map of the United States, published in Boston in 1858, above noted, he claimed to have been the first to recognize in the West. He divided it into three divisions, the lowest of which he considered as equivalent to the red sandstones of Lake Superior (now considered as Cambrian), the Bay of Fundy, the Prince Edward and Magdalen islands, and a part of that of Virginia and New Jersey. At Pyramid Mount, in the Llano Estacado, he claimed to have found Jurassic rocks overlying conformably the Keuper (the first discovery of rocks of this horizon in America), and at Galisteo, in New Mexico, the White Chalk division of the Cretaceous. From the fact that the
‘retaceous beds lie unconformably upon the upheaved Triassic and Jurassic beds, he concluded that the same were deposited after the principal dislocation of the Rocky Mountains, which took ga at the end of the Jurassic period.
The Sierra Nevada he rightly inferred to be of more recent uplift than the Rocky Mountains, probably dating from the end of the Miocene or Pliocene, and the Coast Range from the end of the Eocene.
To W. P. Blake fell the lot of aecompanying Lieutenant Williamson, whose route led from San Francisco southward along the San Joaquin River, through San Francisco Pass in the mountains to the Mohave River, and WorkofW.P. Blake eastward along the, thirtyan Conde ton with’) second. ana Ghinty hind parSurveys, 1853-1856. allels'to the mouth of the Gila. The region, as pointed out by S. F. Emmons,¢ ‘tis not one from which definite geological data could be obtained,” the rocks,
Fig, 60.—William Phipps Blake. | With the exception of recent and Tertiary formations, being barren and classed as metamorphic and eruptive. He however noted the wide-spread occurrence of Tertiary rocks about San Francisco and in southern California and the occurrence of eruptive serpentinous rocks. He also made many interesting minor observations on the polishing and grooying of hard rocks by wind-blown sand and other desert phenomena. Mountains of the isolated or ‘‘lost mountain” type were described, and the fact that the Colorado Desert. was below the level of the sea noted. The age of the coast mountains was determined as at least post-Pliocene, and the impregnation of the rocks of the region with gold he regarded as having been Peake TUNE ans with the uplift.
a Pr Sie Agee Giede Society of W sie 1896.

<<<Page: 515>>>

To Blake, too, fell the study of the collections made by Pope’s expedition along the route near the thirty-second parallel. It was the original intention of Pope that this work should be done by Marcou, but owing to the decision of Davis, then Secretary of War, the collections were returned by Marcou, as already noted, *‘in a confused condition and with many of the labels displaced” and given to Blake.
Captain Pope’s route extended from Preston on the Red River ina southwesterly direction to the Pecos River, and thence nearly due west to the valley of the Rio Grande at El Paso and Dona Ana in New Mexico, crossing the Organ, Huerco, and Guadalupe mountains. The result of this expedition was to establish the Carboniferous character of the limestone of the Organ Mountains, the prevailing granitic type of the Huerco Range, and the presumable Carboniferous age of the limestone and sandstone of the Guadalupes (see also Shumard’s observations, p. 434). The underlying formations of the Llano Estacado were judged from the specimens to be probably Cretaceous and not Jurassic, as mapped by Marcou. For the geology of the region between Llano Estacado and Preston, Blake drew largely on Shumard’s publications.
The origin of the gypsum beds he regarded as due to the action on the underlying limestone of percolating waters containing sulphuric acid derived from the decomposition of pyrites.
Thomas Antisell accompanied the party under command of Lieut. J. G. Parke, surveying the route in southern California to connect with the routes near the thirty-fifth and thirty-second parallels and
also the route near the thirty-second parallel between The Work of the Rio Grande and Pimas Village, which was explored by Parker in 1854-55.
Antisell recognized the post-Miocene age of the final uplift of the Coast Range and thought that the elevating force must have taken place from two points, one in the north and one in the south, and that the forces became gradually spent as they passed, one in a southerly and the other in a northerly direction toward each other. He conceived that this resulted in an uplifting of the consolidated crust of the State at either end, while the center remained quiescent, causing thereby a rupture of the superficial strata, or even a depression below sea level near the middle, forming thus San Francisco Bay.
Influenced to some extent by Elie de Beaumont’s theory of mountain uplift and the relative age of mountain ranges, as indicated by their parallelism, he, without committing himself in any way, called attention to the north and south trend of all the New Mexican ranges and northwest and southeast trend of the Sierras, the Coast Range, and the ranges of Nevada. ;
No Paleozoic rocks were recognized in the southern part of the State. The sandstone underlying the Carboniferous limestone of the

<<<Page: 516>>>

Gila region, New Mexico, was thought to be Devonian, though no fossils were found by which the age might be definitely proven. What fossils were collected during this expedition were described by Conrad and were all Tertiary forms.
As with Hitchcock and other of the early workers, he failed to realize the full capabilities of river action during gradual crustal movement, and found the same difficulty in accounting for the course of the Gila that Hitchcock did with that of the Connecticut (p. 310).
During the series of elevations which finally uplifted this range (the Pinaleno) to its present altitude, the upheaving force must have been exerted even upon the southern portion of the range, raising the table-land of northern Sonora and Chiricahua to so great a height. This strain may have produced a fissure from east to west, or cracked and perhaps depressed the strata along parallel 33°, and thus enabled the Gila to take that as a permanent course. Some such catastrophe must have occurred, for it is scarcely probable that the river unaided could have cut through such lofty hills and hard rocks as it appears to have done in its passage through these mountains, running as it does at right angles to the strike of the ranges.
Antisell’s report was accompanied by numerous sections in black and white through the coast ranges, and a colored geological map of the region extending from San Francisco to Los Angeles; also by a colored map and section of the region from the Rio Grande (then knownas the Rio Bravo del Norte) to beyond Maricopa Wells (112° 30’). ;
Antisell was born in Ireland, of French Huguenot parentage, in 1817, and came to
America for political reaSketch of Antisell. sons in 1848, where he prac ticed medicine until 1854, though inthe meantime holding the position of lecturer on chemistry ina number of colleges, including those of Woodstock, Ver-
Wid, Glee Piomas Antisell: mont; Pittsfield, Massachusetts; and at the
Berkshire Medical Institute. Prior to his American experiences, though by profession a surgeon, he had manifested a lively interest in matters pertaining to other sciences, and had published in 1846 a duodecimo volume of 84 pages on Irish geology and a manual of agricultural chemistry, prepared with especial reference to the soils of Ireland. His work with the Pacific Railroad Survey, above noted, comprised his only geological investigations after coming to America.
In 1856 he was appointed an examiner in the Patent Office, but resigned to enter the Union Army as surgeon in 1861. In 1866 he became chief chemist of the Department of Agriculture, and in 1871 was appointed by the Japanese Government an expert in chemical

<<<Page: 517>>>

AMERICAN GQEROLOGY—DECADE OF 1850-1859. Oe
technology in Tokyo. He returned to the United States in 1877 and was reappointed to his former position in the Patent Office, where he remained until 1891.
J.S. Newberry was geologist to the party under Lieutenants Williamson and Abbot, surveying routes in California and Oregon. Newberry regarded the sandstone in the vicinity of San Francisco as
probably. Miocene, and the serpentines as of igneous Nem oer er eciics, OFigin—in this agreeing with Blake. The rocks at
Arbuckle’s diggings, near Fort Reading, were considered as Cretaceous. He did not agree with Trask in thinking that the Sierra Nevada terminated at Lassen’s Butte, or that the Coast Mountains, when continued northward, form the Cascades of Oregon and Washington. He regarded Mount Shasta as a part of the Sierra Nevadas (as did also King, later), which were themselves probably of greater antiquity than the Coast Range Mountains. In this he was right. He thought to have discovered evidences of a continuous ice sheet in the region of the Three Sisters and Mount Jefferson in the Cascades. The canyons, as of the Columbia, he rightly regarded as due to stream erosion, not to rifts by volcanic action. The few fossils collected were described by Conrad and all as Miocene.
The survey along the thirty-eighth and forty-first parallels was first placed under the direction of Captain Gunnison, who, however, lost his life in a fight with the Indians in Sevier Lake Valley in 1853. Lieut.
EK. H. Beckwith was then placed in charge, with Dr. Schiel’s Work. James Schielas geologist. The route lay across Kansas,
up the Arkansas River, and across the front range to the valleys of the Grand and Green rivers, south of Salt Lake; thence across the Humboldt Desert and Sierra Nevadas to the Pitt and Sacramento rivers in California. The report contains scarcely anything of value from a geological standpoint, being mainly mineralogical and lithological, though a few invertebrate fossils are described and one fossil fish, the first named being mainly specimens of Productus, Terebratula, Inoceramus, and Gryphea. Nothing was said regarding their probable geological age.
Dr. John Evans, whose early work in the Bad Lands is noted elsewhere, made to Governor I. I. Stevens reports on the geology of the northern route, which were, however, never printed.
According to Emmons,” two reports were made, but both were lost in transit from the Pacific Coast to Washington. No final report was published, though correspondence shows that such was prepared and sent to the Government Printing Office as early as 1861. Doctor Evans dying in 1861, all trace of the manuscript appears to have been lost.
Dr. John Evans’s Work in Washington and Oregon Territories.
“Presidential Address, Geological Society of Washington, 1896.

<<<Page: 518>>>

George Gibbs accompanied a party under the command of Capt. George B. McClellan and made reports on the country lying on Shoalwater Bay and Puget Sound, and also in the central part of what was
then the Territory of Wash-
ere pes Work ington. His published notes
contained little of geological
interest. Gibbs, it should be stated, while
active in scientific matters, did little work
along the broad lines of geology. His bib-
liography consists, in addition to the above,
of. three brief notes, altogether comprising
less than a printed page. He thought to
have discovered that the paving blocks—
pebbles—on Waverly Place in New York
City had through the weight of traftic yielded
. | "| as if plastic, so that the concavity of one
gs 62_-Georse Gibbs! fitted into a corresponding convexity in its
neighbor. He also called attention to the
**olades” in Oakland, Allegany County, Maryland, which he believed to have been the seats of ancient glaciers.
In this connection mention should be made of the survey by Swallow
of that portion of the line built under State auspices Swallow’s Survey of f = : the Southwest, and extending from St. Louis westward to the State Railroad in Missouri, line and known as the Southwest Branch. The report
of this survey comprised, all told, less than one hundred pages, and is of interest mainly for the colored geological map of the region traversed. It dealt, naturally, mainly with economic questions, as the distribution of the ores of lead, zine, and copper and the character of the soil.
In 1854 the general assembly of Tennessee passed an act creating for a second time the office of geologist and mineraJogist of the State. J.M. Safford, then holding the chair of chemistry, geology, and natural history
in-the Cumberland Univerparece teoa «Sty at Lebanon, Tennessee,
was appointed to the position, continuing to serve until the outbreak of the civil war, when the work was abandoned. During this time he published two biennial reports, the first in 1856 comprispy. 63.—James Merrill Safford. ing 164 pages, and the second in 1857 comprising but 11 pages. A final volume on the geology of Tennessee, comprising 550 pages with 7 plates of fossils, appeared in 1869 (see p. 584).

<<<Page: 519>>>

The first report, known under the title of Geological Reconnaissance of Tennessee, was presented to the general assembly in 1855, and published in 1856. It was given up largely to a somewhat popular treatise on the economic geology of the State, with much interesting stratigraphical matter.
He discussed the occurrence of the ores of iron, copper, lead, zine, and even gold and silver, and included also a brief chapter on Aluminum or the Metal from Clay. ‘Stone coal” and the marbles received a share of attention, as well as various minor minerals. From a strictly geological standpoint the matter given in chapters 5 and 6-the closing chapters of the report—was of greatest importance. Here he dwelt on the general geological structure of the State and gave the now well-known Cumberland section, reproduced with the original legend in fig. 64, and also an ideal cross section illustrating the geological structure of East Tennessee. He pointed out the striking parallelism of the valleys and ridges and the occasional vertical position of the beds, as well as the frequent repetition of the same series of beds, due to folding and faulting.
= DONG an
Fic. 64.—Section from the Cumberland, 8 miles north of Jasper, to the Eastern base of Lookout Mountain. (After James M. Safford.)
(Length of section, 20 miles; vertical scale, about five thousand feet to the inch.)
A and C, High edges, respectively, of the Cumberland and Walden’s ridge, overlooking Sequatchee Valley, represented by the depression between. D, Narrow valley of the Tennessee River; the section crosses a few miles above Kelly’s Ferry. E, Portion of the Walden’s ridge and Raccoon range cut off by the river, ete. L, Lookout Mountain. Depression between E and L, Valley of Lookout Creek.
The unbroken lines represent the formations as they actually occur. The broken lines indicate the elevation of the folds, and the amount of matter removed by denudation. B, Summit of the restored Sequatchee fold. I, I, Converging lines indicating a section of the supposed fissure or rent. F, Summit of another smaller fold.
He grouped the rocks under fourteen formations, extending from the mica-slate group of metamorphic rocks of Azoic age to the Alluvial, post-Tertiary series. The much discussed and still enigmatical Ocoee conglomerates were included in his semimetamorphic series at the top of the Azoic. Troost, it will be remembered, put them at the base of his Cambrian.
The importance of fossils for purposes of correlation was at this time distinctly recognized.
Every formation has, in great part, its own species of fossils. Most of those found in one do not occur in any other. Upon this fact depends the great utility of fossils. They furnish, when known well enough to be recognized, unmistakable evidence of
the geological position, and hence the general character of the formation in which they occur.

<<<Page: 520>>>

This report shows on the part of Safford a thorough insight into the intricacies of the structure of the State and an ability to grasp the salient features and master the broader problems in a manner perhaps not realized by many of his contemporaries and successors.
~The second biennial report, which appeared in 1857, gave simply a brief account of the objects and utility of the survey, with a general summary of what had been accomplished.
In this connection Richard O. Currey’s Sketch of the Geology of the same State may be mentioned briefly. Currey bad been a pupil of Troost and later a professor of chemistry and geology in East Tenicc oe ee University. His geological writings are few see one and limited mainly to such papers as the Southern
Journal of Medical and Physical Sciences, the Nashville Banner, and The Virginias. The sketches above referred to were first published in 1853 in the Nashville Banner, and subsequently brought out, under the title quoted, in form of a booklet of 128 pages, accompanied by a reprint of Safford’s map in black and white.
In 1854 Dr. Ebenezer Emmons began the publication of a work on American Geology, the intention being, as announced in the ‘* proposals,” to bring it out in four or five parts, each of which should
contain about 200 pages of matter. The first part, Ganon se ee"" containing 194 pages, was issued at Albany in 1854.
It was given up mainly to a discussion of the general principles of geology, of the rocks composing the earth’s crust, and some 70 pages devoted to An Application of Geological Facts and Principles to the Business of Mining. Part I]—the last that was ever issued—comprised 250 pages and 18 plates, and was given up to an exposition of the author’s views on the Taconic and Lower Silurian systems as developed in America and England.
This work, as outlined, was by far the most pretentious of its kind that bad thus far appeared in America, antedating Dana’s Manual by some ten years, and having for its predecessors only the American reprints of Bakewell’s Introduction, Buckland’s Bridgewater Treatise, and De La Beche’s Manual, besides the smaller text-books of Eaton and Emmons, published in the twenties, and which have been previously noted. There was, therefore, ample room for a work of this nature, but it is doubtful if the occasion was propitious or Emmons the man for the task. Too much of the work (122 pages) was given up to a defense of the author’s own peculiar views, which were not in all cases the best, or most generally accepted. His style was poor, often lacking in perspicuity, and in many ways he laid himself open to savage onslaughts of criticism.“ Unjust as much of this criticism may have been, Emmons, it must be confessed, showed singular ignorance
«See Hall’s review (unsigned) in the American Journal of Science, XIX, May, 1855.

<<<Page: 521>>>

of, or indifference toward, much of the work that had been done in the West and Northwest, and his ideas regarding the early history of the globe were not the most advanced. Heat was regarded as at first the predominant and active element. As the activity of fire diminished, that of the antagonistic element, water, increased. The first was paroxysmal in its action, the latter constant. In America he found the evidences of aqueous agencies on a grand scale, but ‘‘ volcanic fire” seemed so far a thing of the past that it was ‘‘ impossible to obtain specimens even for laboratory illustration.”
Fire or heat, he wrote, acts in four ways: (1) In the elevation of areas by expansive forces beneath the crust; (2) by the transferrence of fused matter from the interior to the surface; (3) by producing areas of subsidence, caused by this loss of matter from beneath; and (4) the elevation or depression of areas simply through expansion and contraction of strata by heat and cold. The internal heat he regarded as effective in sustaining ‘‘ that degree of temperature which is best fitted to the organic and structural conditions of living beings” on the earth.
The classification adopted was essentially the same as that put out in his North Carolina report (p. 431) and need not be repeated here.
The pyrocrystalline rocks, it may be stated, however, he regarded as the results of the primary consolidation of the earth’s crust. The fact that some of these occurred in dikes he thought to be due to the fissuring of the earlier-cooled portions of the crust by shrinkage and the forcing up through these fissures of the lower, still unconsolidated portion. He imagined that the age of rocks might be deduced from their crystalline state, the older having been subjected to greater heat and hence becoming most perfectly fused and most highly crystalline on cooling. The granites were, therefore, regarded as the first products of cooling and the oldest of rocks.
Emmons regarded concretions and nodules as symmetrical bodies due to ‘*a force by virtue of which the molecules are really transferred to central points where, by constant accumulation,” they form the concretion. The parallel planes of the rhombic forms in limestones and slaty rocks, and jointed structure in general, ‘‘admits of the same explanation.” The concentric weathering shown by massive rocks was referred to the same cause. Further than this, he regarded the phenomena of rift and grain in a massive rock as identical with cleavage in a simple mineral. Such rocks ‘tare not only composed of crystallized minerals, but they are crystalline in the mass.”
The serpentine of Syracuse, New York, he considered a magnesian vock altered by proximity to eruptives, and he still adhered to the idea of the igneous origin of the crystalline limestones of St. Lawrence County, as announced in his New York report. For the first time in an American text-book there was here recognized the relationship

<<<Page: 522>>>

existing between conglomerates and sandstones as shore deposits and the pelagic, calcareous, and argillaceous materials laid down at greater depths.
In 1854 Dr. William Kitchell was appointed superintendent of the geological survey of New Jersey. He continued in office until the close of 1856, during which time he made three annual reports, being cinrcike Gate assisted in the geological work by George H. Cook SarevolN a ae and in the topographic by Egbert L. Viele. It was
expected that Conrad would take charge of the paleontological work, but failing health forcing him to resign, it was placed in the hands of James Hall. Up to the time of the discontinuance of the survey, however, Hall appears to have done little. The vertebrate fossils collected were placed in the hands of Joseph Leidy. Mr. Henry Wurtz served as chemist and mineralogist.
Such part of the work as was done directly by Kitchell contained little that was original or worthy of note, the stratigraphic work being almost wholly done by Professor Cook. In the first report considerable attention was paid to the greenstone marls, their distribution and chemical composition, although other economic questions were taken up, particularly those relating to the iron ores. The magnetic iron ores were regarded as deposited contemporaneously with the sedimentary rocks in which they were inclosed.
In the third annual report, printed in 1856, Cook called attention to the swamp lands and buried timber, and also the apparent gradual encroachments of the sea in Cape May County, and stated it as his opinion that the sinking of the coast was going on at the rate of about 2 feet in one hundred years. The white crystalline limestone of the highlands was here classed as Azoic.
The results of these observations were afterwards printed with some additional matter in separate form, entitled Geology of the County of Cape May, State of New Jersey, bearing the date of 1857. This report contained a colored geological map of the county and catalogues of the zoological and botanical collections and a few fossil invertebrates.
The survey was brought to a close on the Ist of May, 1856, owing to the fact that the State did not feel able to provide an eppropnativs for its continuance.
The surveying party under Maj. W. H. Emory, for the purpose of fixing the Mexican boundary in accordance with the treaty of 1854, was accompanied by Dr. C. C. Parry in the capacity of geologist and cinder emer botanist and Arthur Schott as an assistant. The obserBoundary Survey, |) Vanons made by these two men were largely physio-
graphical and mineralogical, with numerous notes of a lithological nature. Collections of fossils were fortunately made,
« According to Cook. (Geseer of New Jersey, 1868), Kitchell died suddenly in the midst of his active duties, leaving his notes and papers unarranged for publication.

<<<Page: 523>>>

which were referred to Messrs. Hall and Conrad for determination and report. The published report, the work of all the above mentioned, comprised ‘but 174 pages of text, with 21 plates of fossils. It was, however, noteworthy in containing a colored geological map of the Mississippi Valley and country to the west. This has the distinction of being the earliest colored geological map of the region published by the Government. It is, moreover, of historical interest as showing how little was definitely known of the region. The known mountain ranges were colored as metamorphic, often flanked by more or less sinuous, narrow bands of Cretaceous and Carboniferous rocks. Large areas of igneous rocks were represented as occurring in the extreme northwest (California, Oregon, and Washington), but the great interior, the Great Basin region, was left almost entirely blank—geologically a terra incognita.
The fossils, collected largely from Texas, were almost wholly Tertiary, Cretaceous, and Upper Carboniferous forms. A few Lower Silurian forms were figured and named by Hall, but no descriptions were given.
What should have been the most important work on economic geology of the year, and perhaps the most important thus far to appear, with the exception of Whitney’s Metallic Wealth of the United
States, already noted, was Lesley’s, Manual of Coal Ce ss and its Topography, issued in 1856—an octavo volume
of 224 pages. The scope of the volume was, however, scarcely what one would be led to expect from its title, and its possible usefulness sadly marred by the personal claims of the author. Not confining himself to the subject of coal and its topography, he entered freely into the subject of mountain structure, with especial reference to the Appalachians, the formation of valleys, theories of the drift, topographical drawing, and kindred subjects. Lesley was, it should be remembered, a topographical assistant on the survey under Rogers in 1839-1851. Reference to his work while on the survey is therefore to be expected, though it must be confessed one’s expectations are somewhat exceeded when he lays claim, on his own behalf and that of Messrs. Whelpley and Henderson—also assistants on the Rogers survey—to having been the first to unravel the intricacies of Appalachian structure. ‘‘ Years of patient toil,” he writes, ‘*it cost us to unfold the mysteries of the Pennsylvania and Virginia range.” This same claim, in an even more aggressive form, he put forward again three years later, in his Iron Manufacturer’s Guide, which appeared under the authority of the American Iron Association, of which he was secretary, in 1859.4
“These attacks brought forth an emphatic rejoinder from R. E. Rogers (a brother of H. D. Rogers), which was printed privately in form of a pamphlet of 22 pages, 1859.

<<<Page: 524>>>

The merits of the case can not here be decided, but it would seem most probable that this offers but another illustration of the experiences of every executive who has planned, directed, and rendered possible the work of subordinates, only to find in the end that the value of his instrumentality is quite underestimated, and all credit claimed by him to whom opportunity was given.
In 1856 Dr. Edward Hitchcock came once more to the front through the medium of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge with a paper of some 150 royal quarto pages and 12 plates. In this he conbE Wer sidered all changes which had taken. place since the Hitchcock's close of the Tertiary period as belonging to the ‘‘alluSurface Geology, vial formation,” and due to causes still in operation. 1856. : ;
The products of these changes he classed as (1) drift unmodified and (2) drift modified, under the latter including such deposits as beaches, ancient and modern; submarine ridges; sea bottoms; osars; dunes; terraces; deltas, and moraines. The drift proper he regarded as a product of ‘*several agencies—icebergs, glaciers, landslips, and waves of translation”—which, though more active in the past than now, are still at work. The sandy and gravelly plains (the overwash of modern geologists) and the low ridges of New England were thought to represent old sea bottoms, to be ‘‘explained only by the former presence of the ocean above them, with its tides and currents.”
The terraces of the Connecticut River were described in great detail, with numerous references to those of other regions, both at home and abroad. The chief agency in the formation of these appeared to him, and rightly, to have been water. Moraine terraces, however, demanded the action of stranded icebergs in addition. To account for the drift accumulations at various altitudes, he conceived that the ocean water
must have stood some 2,500 feet above its present level. He conceived
further ‘‘that all the northern part of this continent, at least all east of the Mississippi, had been covered by the ocean since the glacial period,” in this agreeing with Agassiz. As to the origin of the material of the ‘‘irregular coarse deposit beneath the modified beaches and terraces,” he agreed essentially with the German geologist, Naumann, in supposing that: (1) The eroding materials must have been comminuted stone; (2) they must have been borne along under heavy pressure; (3) the moving force must have operated slowly and with prodigious energy, and (4) moving in a nearly uniform direction, though liable to local divergence; (5) the vehicle of the eroded material could not have been water alone, (6) but a firm and heavy mass, somewhat plastic. ‘*‘ Where, now, save in glaciers, icebergs, and ice islands can we find agencies that meet the conditions of the above principles respecting drift?’ The exact period of operation of the drift agency naturally he found difficulty in determining. He felt

<<<Page: 525>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 22.
“es het
43 a safe:
a ca RR eT A
lf Never

<<<Page: 526>>>



<<<Page: 527>>>

that while the greater part of the work was accomplished before the continent had emerged very considerably from the water, nevertheless the work of erosion went on for some time after emergence began.
In his discussion relative to traces of ancient glaciers he called attention to the occurrence of two series of striv, differing in their direction, the more extensive being what he termed ‘* drift strive,” and the second, much more limited in extent, ‘‘ glacial strive,” the latter being confined to the valleys. The first he thought due to aqueo-glacial causes; the last to glaciers existing earlier than the drift. Further investigation brought to light other strizee which seemed quite as recent as any caused by the drift agency, and he confessed to a feeling of doubt as to which of the agencies was earliest. ‘* Perhaps there were two periods of glaciers, one before and one subsequent to the drift.
The facts concerning the dispersion of bowlders he thought could be more satisfactorily explained by icebergs than by glaciers, since this transportation and scattering continued till after the time when a large part of the beaches and terraces were formed. Glaciers would have plowed tracks through stratified deposits. Icebergs such as now traverse the Atlantic might carry bowlders over the beaches and terraces and drop them from time to time, forming thus the intermixture of coarse, angular blocks and beach or terrace material as we now find it. ‘*The supposition that a glacier once existed on this continent, wide enough to reach from Newfoundland to the Rocky Mountains, is the grand difficulty in the way of the glacial theory.” (See further on p. 471.) ;
The illustrations accompanying this paper were beautifully executed, perhaps the best, both those in color and in black and white, that had thus far been produced.
A second work of Hitchcock, published this same year and needing a brief reference, was his Geology of the Globe, a small octavo volume of 136 pages, 6 plates of fossils, and 2 colored geological maps, one of the United States and Canada and one of the world.
The source of inspiration was evidently Boue’s treatise published under the auspices of the Geological Society of France. On the maps the various formations, indicated by color, were: (1) Hypozoic and metamorphic strata, with granite, syenite, and some porphyries; (2) Primary fossiliferous strata to the top of the Carboniferous; (3) Secondary strata; (4) Tertiary strata; (5) Alluvial deposits; and (6) Volcanoes and igneous rocks of the Alluvial and Tertiary periods. Comparatively few areas are left uncolored—areas scarcely larger than those left as unknown or uncertain on the map published in 1884 by the official survey of the United States. When one thinks of this he can but smile at the naive remark of the author when referring to the coloring: ‘‘ Nor can I doubt that it is done approximately correct.”

<<<Page: 528>>>

Such a work was necessarily largely a compilation and contained little original matter.
‘J. D. Dana, in an article On the Plan of Development in the Geological History of North America, called attention to the fact that the greater mountain ranges border on the greater oceans in both AmeriDe OE RE Nari also to the apparent fact that voleanic activity, or Development of North at least the evidence of the action of heat, was great-
est along the coasts bordering on the greater oceans.
Assuming that the typical form of a continent is a basin with borders of mountains facing. the oceans, and the heights of the mountains and yoleanic activity are proportional to the size of the oceans, and again that volcanoes characterize oceanic islands and not continental interiors, he showed that the extent and position of oceanic depressions have in a great degree determined the features of the land; that oceanic depression and continental elevation have both been in progress with mutual reaction from the beginning of the earth’s refrigeration. The original V-shaped character of the North American continent he showed to be due to the forces acting from the two oceans.
‘*Contraction was the power, under Divine Direction, which led to the oscillations of the crust, the varied successions in the strata.” These views, it will be observed, are largely in accordance with those advanced in his Wilkes Exploring Expedition report in 1849.
Prior to 1856 the age of the slates of Braintree, Mas-
sachusetts, had been problematical. By phe Finding of 4, most of the geologists of the time they had been considered as Primary or, poswie. 6.—Para. ‘bly, Transitional. A distinct advance was, therefore, doxides harlani, Marked when, at the August, 1856, meeting of the Boston Society of Natural History, Prof. W. B. Rogers announced the finding in these slates of trilobites, later identified as belonging to Barrande’s Paradoxides and perhaps identical with Green’s Paradoxides harlani, which had been described from a specimen, source unknown, in the cabinet of Mr. Francis Alger. On presentation of this evidence Rogers felt justified in referring the Braintree slates to the horizon of the lowest Paleozoic group, or about the level of the Primal rocks, the Potsdam sandstone, and the Protozoic sandstone of Owen. The beds, it may be noted, are, in the latest edition of Dana’s Manual (1894), referred to the Middle Cambrian, and, therefore, lie below the Potsdam.
With the exception of the papers by Dana and Couthouy, scarcely anything of consequence on the subject of corals, geologically considered, had thus far appeared from the pen of an American. At the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,

<<<Page: 529>>>

in 1857, Joseph Le Conte, then professor of chemistry and geology in the University of South Carolina, made his first appearance in the geological arena, with a paper, subsequently pubdoseph Le Conte on lished in the American Journal of Science, in which he argued that the peninsula of Florida owed its southern continuation to a double process of coral-reef growth and sedimentation from the Gulf Stream. It was his idea that the sediments brought down by the Mississippi sank to a depth beyond observation before reaching the Keys, but were gradually deposited along the inner side of the curve formed by the current as it passed around the point. When the bottom should have become suflticiently elevated by this process, a new reef would begin to form. This process he thought to have gone on until the channel had become narrowed as now, and the rush of water, together with the depth, practically precluded further deposition. Waves throwing broken material upon the beaches would serve to fill the old channels and convert them into dry land. In brief, ‘“*the peninsula and Keys of Florida have been the result of the combined action of at least three agencies. First, the Gulf Stream laid the foundation; upon that corals built up to the water level; and, finally, the work was completed by the waves.”
Le Conte further conceived that the rate of flow of the Gulf Stream has been gradually accelerated by the narrowing of its channel, and hence had made itself manifest at a greater distance into the Atlantic, thus bringing about a gradual amelioration of the climate of England.
In 1855 the first State geological survey of Iowa was organized, and Dr. James Hall made State geologist. The organization continued through 1858. The reports of the survey appeared in the form of REM two octavo volumes, of which the second volume was Survey of lowa, given up wholly to paleontology. Hall was assisted
in this survey by J. D. Whitney, who served as chemist and mineralogist, and by A. H. Worthen, F. B. Meek, and R. P. Whitfield.
Hall noted the rapid westward thinning out of the various beds of sedimentary rocks, including those of the Hudson River, Medina, Clinton, Niagara, and Onondaga salt group, and Catskill Mountain group, and made the following comment:
This remarkable fact of the thinning out westerly of all the sedimentary formations points to a cause in the conditions of the ancient ocean, and the currents which transported the great mass of material along certain lines, which became the lines of greatest accumulation of sediments, and consequently present the greatest thickness of strata at the present time. Itis this great thickness of strata, whether disturbed and inclined as in the Green and White mountains and the Appalachians generally, or lying horizontally as in the Catskill Mountains, that gives the strong
features to the hilly and mountainous country of the East and which gradually dies out as we go westward just in proportion as the strata become attenuated.
NAT Mus 1904——30

<<<Page: 530>>>

Again, with reference to the subdued features of the West, he wrote:
The thickness of the entire series of sedimentary rocks, no matter how much disturbed and denuded, is not here great enough to produce mountain features.
In this, it will be observed, is given the gist of his theory of mountain formation, as announced two years later.
Numerous changes in nomenclature and important correlations were made, or at least attempted. The Lower Magnesian limestone of Owen he considered as identical with the Calciferous of New York, and gave the name Galena to the limestone immediately succeeding the Trenton, and which Owen had called Upper Magnesian. The ‘*Coralline and Upper Pentamerus beds of the Upper Magnesian limestone,” of Owen, he identified as Niagara, and proposed the name Leclaire to designate a gray to whitish limestone lying next above the Niagara and found outcropping near the town of that name. The entire series of Coal Measure rocks he showed to have been deposited after the disturbances producing the low folds in the Silurian rocks, illustrating their relative position by the section here reproduced.
The encrinital group of Burlington and that of Hannibal, Missouri, thought by D. D. Owen to be distinct, were considered by Hall to be identical. The entire series of Carboniferous limestones were regarded as ‘‘ successively deposited in an ocean, the limits of which were gradually contracted upon the north while at the south the conditions were becoming more and more favorable to the development of this kind of deposition and to the support of the fauna which abounded throughout the period, until both culminated in the great limestone formation of Kaskaskia. (The Archimedes limestone of Owen.)
In discussing the relationship of the limestone and coal, Hall queken from his report on the geology and paleontology of the Mexican Boundary, elsewhere alluded to. With reference to this he wrote:
The conditions favorable to the production of an extensive deposit of marine limestone are not such as usually accompany the production of coal. In the present instance the ocean, depositing the great limestone formations previous to the coal period, occupied to a great extent the present area of the Coal Measures which succeeded in the valley of the Mississippi. * * * We begin thus to comprehend the truth, that during the period of the great coal formations of the West, in which these calcareous deposits were in course of formation—that during the oscillations which we know to have occurred throughout the coal period there was a time when the whole area became depressed so as to allow the waters of the western ocean to flow over all the Coal Measure region; or, at least, as far northward and eastward as the northeastern part of Ohio, and from hence it derived the limestone under consideration.
The series of beds immediately underlying the Carboniferous rocks at Burlington, and now considered as Kinderhook (sub-Carboniferous), Hall relegated to the Chemung; this proved to be an error, and one that it required many years to eradicate,

<<<Page: 531>>>

It was noted that the Potsdam sandstone seemed likely to be found strongly developed in the Rocky Mountain region.
Subsequent to this period, however, every sedimentary formation indicates the proximity of land on the east. The great thickness of strata, coarse materials, and numerous fucoids of the Hudson River group in its eastern extension indicate proximity to land, or the course of strong currents, while in the west the formation dies out in some inconspicuous fine shaly and calcareous beds, which, both in nature and condition of the material and in the fossil contents, indicate great distance from land and a quiet ocean. @
Hall took the ground that the treeless character of the prairies was due mainly to the character of the soil, oan inferred, on what seemed
«The volumes of this work now in the library of the Nanoeal Mace were the personal property of F. B. Meek, and many of the statements made by Hall are savagely criticised by the former in marginal notes. Thus, with reference to Hall’s statements as to the Potsdam, Meek notes: ‘‘It was quite safe for him to make this prediction, when he knew at the time he was writing it, I had identified Potsdam fossils in Hayden’s collections from the Black Hills. These fossils were then in Professor nee house—he had seen them and heard me say I regarded them as Potsdam species.’
Still jealous of his discoveries of supposed Permian fossils in ithe West, Meek also bitterly criticised Hall’s reference to the occurrence of Permian and Jurassic rocks in the Rocky Mountain region, and added in the margin: ‘‘This was all intended to bear the date of 1857, although every word of it was written after the publication of our (i. e., Meek and Hayden) Permian and Jurassic discoveries in 1858.”’
Again on page 142, Hall stated: ‘‘In the early part of 1857 Mr. Worthen placed in the hands of the writer some peculiar fossils collected several years since in Illinois and supposed to be from the Coal Measures. These, however, were at once recognized as of peculiar forms, differing from Coal-Measure fossils,-and a farther examination proves them to be of Permian types, and closely allied to British species.” To this statement Meek has added the following marginal note: ‘‘ At the time he obtained these fossils from Mr. W. he told Mr. W. he regarded them as lower Cretaceous forms.’? Also ‘‘If he had stated when this ‘later’ examination was made, it would have been all right; but he leaves it to be inferred that it was sometime in 1857, when, in fact, it was not until after the publication of our paper on the Kansas fossils on the 2nd of March, 1858; and yet he intended at that time that this report should bear the date of 1857.”
On page 144 Hall suggested the probability of finding in the West beds of the age of the Jura or Oolite of Europe. To this Meek has added the following: ‘‘ How wonderfully sagacious he was to make this prediction, when he knew we had Jurassic fossils then in his house (which he had seen) from the Black Hills, Nebraska! Yet what is here written is intended to date in 1857.”’
Again, Hall-says: ‘‘Thus far the collections made in the explorations across this western country have brought us no true Jurassic fossils, and it is only in the far north and upon the Pacific coast, as well also as in the southern extremity of the continent, that we have the evidences of the existence of these rocks below the Cretaceous formation.’? To which Meek appended the following: ‘‘ At the very time when Professor Hall wrote those words some of Doctor Hayden’s Jurassic fossils from the Black Hills were lying in a tray within fifteen feet of him, in an adjoining room. I had called his attention to them and told him I was satisfied they must be Jurassic forms.”’
It is the old story of jealousy and heartburning (warranted in this case, it may be) which seems an almost invariable outcome of any attempt at mutual collaboration,

<<<Page: 532>>>

to him to be reasonable grounds, that the soil itself originated in form of an almost impalpable sediment, which gradually accumulated on the bottom of an immense lake which once occupied the region.
Hall, as already noted, was assisted in his work on the geological survey of Iowa by J. D. Whitney, who served as chemist and mineralogist. A good deal of attention was given by Whitney to the chem-
ical nature of the coals and the distribution and mode pongss*'™ of occurrence of the lead and zinc ores. There was,
however, very little of a theoretical nature, and speculations regarding the origin of the ores were almost entirely lacking. He regarded the iron ore of Jackson as having originated, in some instances at least, through the decomposition of moines of iron pyrites which are eerioteed irregularly through the rock. In other cases he thought it to be a deposit from springs, the original material, however, having been derived from the decomposition of pyrite, as before.
Considerable attention was naturally given to the lead and zine ores. He noted that where the Galena limestone had a maximum thickness, the lead deposits were limited to the central and lower portions of the rock, and never penetrated the Blue limestone, and he had satisfied himself that, ina great majority of cases at least, the deposits diminished in productiveness rapidly after passing below a limit perhaps fifty feet above the base of the Galena. When, however, the Galena limestone was diminished in thickness, he noted that the lead deposits were found in lower and lower positions until, at last, the bottom of the Blue limestone was reached, where the Upper sandstone entirely cut off the ore, there having never been a single instance, so far as he had ascer Ginedea in which a crevice had been worked in that rock.
He found reason, therefore, to differ somewhat with Owen in his statement to the effect that when a mine was sunk through the Cliff to the Blue limestone beneath, the lodes shrank to insignificance, as considerable deposits of ore had been worked in the Blue limestone, though by far the larger portion of the lead of the upper mines came from the lead-bearing rock.
As to the possibility of the lead-bearing crevices extending downward indefinitely and the probability of deep mining ever being likely to prove profitable, Whitney wrote, ‘‘ The question can be answered unhesitatingly in the negative,” and went on to state that the most profitable method of mining will be in the form of horizontal excavations or drifts and not by means of vertical shafts.
The Iowa lead deposits, it should be noted, he regarded as occurring in gash veins. The mineral deposits of the Northwest in general were classified under the heads of surface deposits, vertical crevices, and flat sheets, as in his work on the metallic wealth of the United States (p. 438).
Perhaps the most peculiar idea advanced by Whitney in any part of his report is that regarding the origin of the siliceous matter of the Potsdam sandstone.

<<<Page: 533>>>

It has been generally assumed that such sandstones were originally formed by mechanical agencies, the material being supposed to have gradually accumulated from the grinding down of previously existing quartzose rocks. The facts collected, however, seem rather to point to chemical than mechanical causes. * * * We can hardly understand how such an amount of quartzose sand could have been accumulated without its containing at the same time a considerable quantity of detritus, which could be recognized as having come from the destruction of the schistose, feldspath, and trappean rocks, which make up the larger portion of the Azoic series wherever it has been examined. The uniform size of the grains of which the sandstone is composed and the tendency to the development of crystalline facets in them are additional facts which suggest the idea of chemical precipitation rather than of mechanical accumulation. @
In 1856 Prof. Edward Hitchcock was appointed State geologist of Vermont, and continued to serve until 1860, at which time he submitted his final report, which appeared in 1861 in the form of two quarto voley 5) umes of 982 pages, accompanied by a colored geologBese yot Vermane, ical map of the State, two maps showing the terraces
and beaches, and 35 plates of scenery, fossils, sections, ete. Hitchcock was assisted in the work by his sons, Edward Hitchcock, jr., and C. H. Hitchcock, and by Albert D. Hager, in whose charge was placed the final publication of the work.
The main objects of the survey, as outlined in the introduction, were first, to gain such a knowledge of the solid rocks of the State as to be able to delineate them upon maps and sections; second, to study the loose deposits lying upon the solid rocks and trace out the changes which the surface of the State had undergone; third, to collect, arrange, and name specimens of rocks, minerals, and fossils from every part of the State for the State cabinet; fourth, to obtain a full collection, for the same cabinet, of specimens valuable from an economic standpoint; and fifth, to identify the metamorphosed rocks of the State with those which had not been thus changed.
The systematic geology was in immediate charge of Professor Hitchcock, though aided by C. B. Adams, Zadock Thompson, A. D. Hager, and C. H. Hitchcock. The economic geology was in charge of Hager, and the chemistry, of C. H. Hitchcock. The Rev. S. R. Hall aided in the preparation of a report on the northern part of the State and its agricultural possibilities. The paleontological work was done by James Hall, and the paleobotanical by Lesquereux. Hitchcock recognized at this date that each rock formation was characterized by its peculiar group of fossils not found in any other; so that a paleontologist, on seeing a specimen, could usually tell from which of
4The explanation of this error lies in the fact that the grains of which this sandstone is made up have been cemented by a secondary deposition of interstitial silica, so deposited as to convert each granule into a more or less perfect crystal, of which the original sand grain forms the nucleus. It is a case of secondary growth and enlargement, a phenomenon now well known to every petrographer, but undreamed of at the time of Whitney’s writing.

<<<Page: 534>>>

the series it came, thus indicating a great advance over any of his previous reports.
His views on metamorphism and the production of schistose and slaty cleavage were still, however, in an immature state.” It is to be noted, however, that all through his work he is far from being dogmatic, usually contenting haaale with a discussion of, and full quotations from, the expressed opinions of others, stating his reasons for adopting or rejecting any one, as the. case may have been.
Referring to the agencies of metamorphism, and particularly the chemical changes involved in the ‘‘transfer of ingredients from one part of a mass to another,” he wrote: ‘‘We know of no other agency. by which this could be produced, except by galvanism.” ‘To the same agency he would ascribe the production of cleavage, foliation, and joints. He nevertheless recognized the possibility of the metamorphism of sediments through pressure, and dwelt in considerable detail upon the elongation and flattening of pebbles in the conglomerates near Newport, Rhode Island. The jointing of rocks in these conglomerates he regarded, as already stated, as due *‘ to some polar force such as heat or galvanism. Mere shrinkage could not have separated the pebbles so smoothly, much less could a strain from beneath have thus fractured them. ~* =.“ ~A mere inspection of the rock in place will satisfy anyone that no mechanical agency is sufficient to explain these phenomena.” Yet to-day ‘‘mere inspection” will satisfy anyone that mechanical agency is amply sufficient. (See also p. 510.)
He regarded feldspar in all of the crystalline rocks as the result of 4 process of metamorphism:
Silicates probably furnished the ingredients, which, being abstracted by hot water, left the excess of silica in the form of quartz, and formed the feldspar and mica to fill up the interstices. The feldspar, which has converted the cement into gneiss, could have no other origin, and this fact, in connection with all the rest which have
been adduced, forces a presumption that feldspar in nearly all the crystalline rocks, stratified and unstratified, is a product of metamorphism.
Further on, he wrote:
Metamorphism furnishes the most plausible theory of the origin of the Azoie stratified rocks, which are mica, tale, and hornblende schists, gneiss, serpentine, white limestone, ete., such as cover a large part of Vermont.
He recognized at this time the influence of water as an essential constituent of the trappean rocks, since the intrusion of the material, often in thin sheets scarcely thicker than writing paper, could not be explained on the theory of fusion from dry heat alone. ‘‘ By means of water the materials could be introduced wherever that substance could penetrate.’
His ideas concerning the origin of the drift’ had been considerably modified since his earlier reports, though he was not as yet willing to accept the theory of a continental ice sheet. Thus:

<<<Page: 535>>>

We have no doubt that a part of what we call drift phenomena in New England was produced by glaciers such as we have described as once connected with the Green Mountain range. But the main features of drift we impute to icebergs and ice floes as the continent was gradually sinking beneath the ocean.
He thought, too, to have found evidence that the continent went down to a depth of something like 2,000 feet, and as some of the icebergs in the Atlantic have been estimated as extending 2,500 feet below the surface, he argued that the effects of such could not be distinguished from those of glaciers. Indeed, the idea of a continental ice sheet was still beyond his comprehension, and his chief arguments against the glacial origin of much of the drift was based upon the fact that all known glaciers are confined to valleys; and, moreover, that there was no known glacier more than 50 or 60 miles wide, ‘‘ whereas the ancient American glacier must have been at least 2,500 miles wide and have spread over all the mountains as well as valleys, and often have been obliged to move uphill as well as over a level surface.” The three prominent directions of the drift were to him also arguments against the ice sheet. These were essentially the ideas advanced in his Surface Geology (p. 462).
On lithological grounds the alluvial deposits were classified as (1) drift and (2) modified drift, and on chronological grounds into four periods, in each of which the continent was differently situated in respect to the level of the ocean. These were, first, the drift period, when the continent was under water at its greatest ‘depth; second, the beach period, when it began to emerge; third, the terrace period, when the continent rose to nearly its present situation;.and, fourth, the historic or present period. The phenomena of the modified drift as terraces and beaches were worked out in detail in this report by C. H. Hitchcock.
In the chapter on hypozoic and paleozoic rocks Hitchcock expressed the belief that the rocks of Vermont have been thrown into a succession of folds while in a semiplastic condition by a force from the direction of the Atlantic, and that their crests have been subsequently denuded, some 10,000 vertical feet having, it was estimated, disappeared from the surface of the Shelburne anticline. The strata of those folds with westerly dips, on the western side of the anticlines, he regarded as occupying a normal position; while those with easterly dips, on the eastern side, had been inverted, so that, as he expressed it, “‘though we cross an uninterrupted succession of easterly dips in going eastward we can not infer that we are constantly meeting with older and older rocks, and therefore that mere superposition would not justify one in deciding upon their relative ages.”
Concerning the position of the much-disputed red-sand rock, Hitchcock remarked that without an exception it rested upon the Hudson River group, and the stratigraphical evidence showed it to be of the

<<<Page: 536>>>

age of the Medina sandstone or Oneida conglomerate.. In this he was in error, the red-sand rock being now universally conceded as belonging to the Lower Cambrian. He also regarded the black slate beneath the red-sand rock as belonging to the Hudson River group, although Emmons had regarded it as Taconic and thought to recognize a Potsdain sandstone in the vicinity of Whitehall, in this respect antagonizing the views of Adams, as announced in his second report.
The name Xolian limestone was given to the marble beds of Dorset Mountain, which had been renamed Mount A¢olius. Its exact geological position was not determined, although it was thought that it might be as new as the Carboniferous.
Hitchcock was inclined to side with Emmons in the Taconic controversy, on the ground that the rocks were physically unlike the Lower Silurian which they underlay and differed in the character of their organic remains. The thickness of these Taconic rocks he estimated to be not less than 25,000 feet. ~ .
The clay slate directly overlying the calciferous mica schist was thought to be probably of Devonian age. The calciferous mica schist itself was regarded as having been originally a limestone formation charged with a good deal of silex and with perhaps silicates and organic matter, a great deal of the carbonate of lime having been abstracted by carbonated water and the rock converted by metamorphism into a schist.
The numerous beds of serpentine which were found in the State limits were regarded as having been derived mainly from beds of hornblende schist and diorite. Much of the granite of the State was considered as being as recent, at least, as the Devonian period.
It seems almost extraordinary that, even at this date, there were believed by Hitchcock, as well as by others, to be many well-authenticated instances on record in which toads, snakes, and lizards had heen found alive in the solid parts of living trees and in solid rocks, as well as in gravel deep beneath the surface. In these cases it was assumed that the animals ‘‘ undoubtedly crept into such places while young, and, after having grown, could not get out. Being very tenacious of life and probably obtaining some nourishment occasionally by seizing upon insects that might crawl into their nidus, they might sometimes continue alive even after many years.”
Under date of March, 1857, an act of the Wisconsin legislature provided for a geological and agricultural survey of the State, which was to be under the joint control of James Hall, Ezra S. Carr, and Geological Surveys /#dward Daniels. This joint leadership seemed, howHall Gagsin under ever, to have proven unsatisfactory, and by a second Daniels 1597 act, approved April 2, 1860, James Hall was appointed principal to the commission. This last organization proved also to be short-lived, the survey being discontinued in 1862, the legislature

<<<Page: 537>>>

even going so far as to refuse to refund to Hall the money actually expended by him for the purpose of the survey or to pay for his own services. Under Hall’s brief administration Whitney, who had served in a like capacity in Iowa, was employed to complete the work on the lead region and Charles Whittlesey to study the regions lying on the west side of the Menomonee River and the iron region of Lake Superior.
A single royal octavo volume of 455 pages and 9 plates, a colored geological map of the lead region, and a diagram showing the position of the ore crevices, appeared in 1862 as a result of this organization.
In this Hall repeated his attempts at correlation of the western with the eastern formations. In addition he called attention to the driftless area of the State, and to the fact that, over the whole area south of the Wisconsin River, the Galena limestone and a portion of the underlying Blue limestone had been removed by decomposition and solution to a depth of some 350 to 400 vertical feet.
Whitney, in his report on the lead-bearing region showed, as in his previous work (p. 468), that the lead-bearing fissures of the Northwest were limited to one set of strata, and that there are but rarely any evidences of dislocation of the strata or faults. Hence, he was forced to the conclusion that the ore-bearing crevices originated through the action of some local cause or forces which were limited in their field of action to a comparatively narrow vertical range. In short, he conceived the lead-bearing fissures to have been originally closely allied to what are called joints. How far shrinkage and crystalline action may have been concerned in the production of these joints, he was unable to say, but ‘‘It will be sufficient at this time to recognize the fact that either or both these causes united would have produced a tension in the mass of rock which would lead to the production of fissures in two different directions.” He felt, further, that the direction of the fissures might have been influenced, if not absolutely determined, by an elevatory movement of the region in which they are developed.
He looked upon these veins as having been filled from above, the various metals having been in solution as sulphates in oceanic water at the time of the deposition of the lead-bearing strata, the precipitation as sulphides being brought about through the agency of sulphureted-hydrogen gas, which was liberated by the decomposing organic matter. ‘This is substantially the view held by most authorities to-day. He thought, further, to recognize a general law connecting the lack of mineral deposits in the nonfossiliferous strata with their abundance in those containing organic remains. As in his previous work (Metallic Wealth of United States, p. 438), he differed with both Daniels and Owen as to the metalliferous character of the lower magnesian rocks,

<<<Page: 538>>>

thinking it quite improbable that they would be found sufficiently rich in ores to be worked economically.
Whatever may have been Richard Owen’s powers as a thinker or teacher, his key to the Geology of the Globe, published in 1857 when professor of geology and chemistry in the University of Ten-
nessee, is beyond question the most extraordinary Richard Owen’s : 2 Geology of the Globe, travesty on geology and geological methods of deduc-
tion that has ever emanated from the American press. The fundamental idea seems to have been that there are analogies between organic and world development.
Our planet, perhaps, typifies an ovule from the solar matrix. In its earlier igneous chaotic state it bore analogy to the yet undeveloped amorphous structure of vegetable ovules and the animal ovum. Like them, it had at an early period a nucleus, on which after a time air and moisture deposited additional materials, derived from the matrix. At alater period yet a part of these same materials were carried in mechanical mixture, partly in chemical solution, to promote the development of later formations, forming new continents, etc., just as a portion of the seed (the albumen) and the foodyolk of the egg go to nourish the expanding germ.
The.separation of continents typifies the propagation of offshoots, or artificially by cuttings in plants,and seems to resemble the fissiparous mode of reproduction observed among the lowest animals. In some of the earlier cataclysms we have the type of the ruptured Graafian vesicles, while at a final convulsive deluge, the period when the Western Continent and Australia were detached, and when possibly the moon as a terrestrial ovule was thrown into space, we readily recognize the type of ruptured pericarpal dissemination of seed in the vegetable world, of completed incubation and parturition in the animal kingdom. * * *
It is by no means contended that this earth is a monstrous organism, with all the parts and properties of a plant or animal; but simply that in it we have everything developed according to the same laws and plan pervading the rest of creation; that in it we see foreshadowed the type of those future forms and changes which organic bodies undergo by the assimilation of these very inorganic materials.
The idea underlying all these generalizations, which the author claimed to have gained while studying sundry maps spread out on the floor of a vacant room, in order to place before his classes ‘*some great principles of generalization,” is that the ‘‘formations of the western continent corresponded in many respects to those in the eastern” * * * and ‘‘that they must have been detached at some period from each other.”
He conceived that ‘‘ the earth in some of its former geological epochs oceupied a smaller volume than before the whole of the present superficies emerged from the ocean and than it did before some of the later successive layers were deposited on the earlier formations.” Further, that the original internal nucleus of the earth was of the form of a cube or spherical tetrahedron, and that the rocks of the different successive geological periods will be found less and less dense in structure as they leave the north pole and approach the equator. When these beds were upheaved, ‘‘ the edges of the formations appear to have been brought to the surface along concentric lines, which are parts of great

<<<Page: 539>>>

arches intersecting each other in such a manner as to form equilateral spherical triangles on the earth’s surface, each angle or intersection being equidistant from our present north pole.” The distribution of coal, the metals, and other mineral products he conceived to correspond with the lines marking these spherical triangles.
The forces which acted in separating the planes above described were supposed to have originated from the internal fluid, materia!s being thrown into periodical waves by the attraction of the sun and moon, creating thereby electrical disturbances, etc. Indeed, the entire earth he seemed to regard as a gigantic magnet, made so by the heat of the sun.
Before this separation took place the layers composing the South American continent he supposed to have rested on the layers of submerged Africa, Australia to have been superimposed upon Arabia, and North America over a portion of Europe.
Owen further called attention to the fact that, if the north pole were elevated 234° above the horizon and the globe then revolved the western coast lines of the chief continental masses would be brought successively to the horizon, proving their parallelism; if depressed to a similar extent the parallelism of the eastern coasts would be similarly proven. In other words, he showed that the coast lines of the continents, as well as of many of the islands, tended to conform to the axis of the ecliptic, and he regarded this angular distance of 233°, which marks the northward extension of the sun insummer, as a natural unit of measure in the structure of the earth.
The book contained a large amount of utterly irrelevant matter, and the above idea and that relating to the possible tetrahedral form of the earth, previously referred to, are the only ones put forward in the work that are to-day worthy of consideration. The book, as a whole, can but impress one as the work of a dreamer, and particularly so when one considers also the amount of irrelevant matter brought forward and the involved character of many of the sentences. Be this as it may, by a peculiar coincidence, at the Montreal meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in August of this same year, Prof. Benjamin Pierce, of the U.S. Coast Survey, brought forward ideas almost identical with Owen’s, so far as relates to the parallelism of the coasts, and felt disposed to regard such conditions as evidence that the sun, by influencing in some way the cooling of the crust, had determined the grander outlines.
Fig. 66.—Richard Owen.

<<<Page: 540>>>

Owen’s ideas regarding the tetrahedral form of the earth, though perhaps original with him, and put forward here for the first time by an American writer, were not wholly new. Those desiring a historical review of the subject, with an account of recent advances and theories, will find the same ina paper by J. W. Gregory, The Plan of the Earth and its Causes, first printed in the Geographical Journal for March, 1899, and reprinted in the Appendix for the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1898.“
At the Montreal meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, for this same year, Logan, referring to previous statements by himself relative to a possible subdivision of Azoic ccleaner rocks, as given in his annual reports, describes in some Su ae detail a series or group of clastic rocks, consisting of
siliceous slate and slate conglomerates, holding pebbles of crystalline rocks and sometimes showing ripple marks, which he had traced along the north shore of Lake Huron from Sault Ste. Marie for 120 miles, and which has also been noted in other parts of the Dominion by other observers.
As noted by him on Lake Huron, the formation was some 10, 000 feet in thickness and plainly of fen age than the gneisses, as well as of distinct lithological character. For this formation he then formally proposed the name Huronian, although the term had been previously used in connection with this formation by Murray in 1848 and Hunt in 1855. To the portion of the Azoic immediately underlying the Huronian he gave the name Laurentian, after the Laurentide Mountains.
At this same meeting he further suggested a possible subdivision of the Laurentian series, in which the calcareous rocks should be considered as distinct from the siliceous. This announcement and the subsequent discussion led to a mass of literature which is perhaps second only to that involved in the Taconic controversy, although, fortunately, without any of its bitterness. Indeed, the entire matter is strongly suggestive of Emmons’s Taconic, even if the rocks described could not be accurately relegated thereto.
The principal participants in this discussion, which is even now scarcely at an end, were, aside from Logan, R. D, Irving and Alexander Winchell, though many others took part. Later it was apparently shown that under the name Huronian two distinct formations were comprised, to the older of which A. C. Lawson in 1886 gave the name Keewatin. b
«Owen’s work was briefly noticed in the American Journal of Sciences. Two or three pages of his matter were quoted, and dismissed with ‘‘ Remarks on these passages are unnecessary.’”
b For a history of the discussion, see A Last Word with the Laurentian, by Alexander Winchell, Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, II, 1891, pp. 85-124.

<<<Page: 541>>>

a) 494
During 1857-58 Prof. J. S. Newberry, as geologist, accompanied the corps of topographical engineers, under the immediate direction of Lieut. J..C. Ives, on an expedition up the Colorado River from its hp eeesadition mouth to a point called Fortification Rock, north of up the Colorado the thirty-sixth parallel. The main object of the expe-
dition was to ascertain the navigability of the Colorado, with especial reference to its availability for the transportation of supplies to the various military posts in New Mexico and Utah. Newberry entered the country from San Francisco and San Diego, and in Chapters I and II of his report makes reference to the general geology of this part of the region. The party, as above noted, ascended the river as far as the Great Bend, above Black Canyon, and returned thence to the Mojave Valley, south of Pyramid Canyon. Thence the homeward route lay eastward overland to Fort Leavenworth by way of Sitgreaves and Railroad passes in the Black and Cerbat mountains, Bill Williams and the San Francisco mountains, Salt Springs of the Little Colorado, northward to the Moqui Pueblos, and eastward to Fort Defiance, Santa Fe, and Lis Vegas (see map). In the latter part of the trip the route lay along that traversed by the surveys for a railroad route to the Pacific under Lieut. Whipple, with which Jules Marcou was connected as geologist. Newberry’s report, Part III of the report of Lieutenant Ives, comprised 154 octavo pages, with 3 plates of fossil invertebrates and_ plants. Made necessarily as a hasty reconnaissance, it nevertheless contains interesting generalities. He rightly regarded the canyon of the Colorado as a canyon of erosion, but conceived that in earlier times the river filled to the brim a series of isolated basins formed by the various mountain chains and interlocking spurs of the synclinal trough through which the river runs, and that during the lapse of ages ‘* the accumulated waters, pouring over the lowest points in the opposing barriers, have cut them down from summit to base,” thus forming the canyons. The massive granite walls of Pyramid Canyon, with their capping of stratified gravel, he regarded as conclusive proof of the former existence here of an unbroken barrier ‘‘ stretching across the course of the Colorado and raising its waters to an elevation of at least 250 feet above their present level.” The idea of a possible uplift across the river’s course, an uplift so slow as to be counteracted by erosion, as afterward taught by Dutton, was undreamed of, and the mental restorations of past surface contours given are at times startling for their magnitude. Thus, in accounting for the presence of the large bowlders in the gravel of Elephant Head south of the entrance to Black Canyon, with its walls of porphyry from 800 to 1,200 feet in height, he wrote:
When the Colorado began the task of cutting down the gigantic wall at the point where its accumulated waters, in greater volume than now, poured down its

<<<Page: 542>>>

southwestern declivity, the cascade which it formed must have surpassed any similar exhibition of nature’s forces of which we have knowledge at the present day.
On page 42 of his report Newberry gave a section of the Grand Canyon, showing the bottom granite overlain by Potsdam sandstone, and this by Silurian (4), Devonian (4), and Lower Carboniferous (4) rocks, and, finally, Upper Carboniferous limestone. This was the first section of these beds ever published.@
The source of the materials which go to make up the sedimentary rocks of the West, he thought, could not have been derived from the emerged surfaces east of the Mississippi, but were rather ‘‘ formed by the incessant action of the Pacific waves on shores that perhaps for hundreds of miles succumbed to their power, and by broad and rapid rivers which flowed from the mountains and through the fertile valley of a primeval Atlantis.” The outlines of the western part of the North American continent, to his mind, were approximately marked out by groups of islands, broad continental surfaces of dry land, and areas of shallow water from the earliest Paleozoic times.
As already noted, a portion of Newberry’s return route lay along that previously (in 1853-1854) traversed by Marcou, and it is interesting to note the different views of the two, offered by this opportunity for comparison. Thus Newberry questions Marcou’s determination of the age of the formations near Partridge and Cedar creeks, near Bill Williams Mountain, Marcou regarding them as Devonian and Lower Carboniferous (Mountain limestone), while Newberry thought them to be not older than Carboniferous. In like manner Newberry questioned the Permian age of the Canyon Diablo beds, rightly regarding the same as Carboniferous, and the red sandstone overlying this limestone as likely to prove Permian or Triassic. The yellow sandstone along the Rio Grande was considered as not Jurassic, but Cretaceous.
In 1859 Newberry again took the field, this time in connection with a topographic party under Capt. J. N. Macomb. The party left Santa Fe, New Mexico, about the middle of July and, crossing the Rio ME IREES AES A G ‘ande del Norte, followed up the valley, of the River with the Macomb Chama, finally leaving it at the dividing ridge between
the waters of the Gulf of Mexico and those of the Gulf of California. From here they struck across the headwaters of the San Juan River, passing along the southern base of the Sierra de la Plata, and then northerly to the junction of the Grand and Green rivers. Thence the party proceeded southward to the San Juan River, which they followed up as far as Canyon Largo, passing thence down the valley of the Puerco to the old pueblo of Jemez, and thence easterly back to Santa Fe. The route, it will be perceived, thus covered
«This report contains several graphic views of the Colorado Canyon from sketches by F. W. Egloffstein, but which have been largely overlooked since the more recent work of Powell, Dutton, and Holmes.

<<<Page: 543>>>

“6S-LEST ‘QutooB urle}dRD puR soAT JUBUSINTT YIM ATIoqMaN Aq posioavzy
SS : x oN AN OpesOVON
eUeTIAVo
oqo M Od I
cones
opaasety
Saat & if
BULTOLMA © I, | Se pase) 6 4
-uapier Se . eee oe ee
© yj005 HOA uosyIqonH
‘pois
bye! aq arg F
ne we
ct eee .
yeas
/suminy sey
a ON
aytapeay aes
Oe A Poosnars) Bees,
$oynod SULMOYS
dvWw—'19 ‘1a

<<<Page: 544>>>

part of the territory previously gone over in connection with the Ives expedition.
The report, though written in 1860, was not published until 1876, owing to the outbreak of the civil war. It comprised an octavo volume of 148 pages, with 8 full-page plates of fossil plants and invertebrates, and a map of the route traversed. Some of the conclusions arrived at during the work of the Ives expedition were confirmed by the more recent work. Perhaps the most interesting of the results as given related to the orographic movements attendant upon the elevation of the Rocky Mountains.
His conclusions were to the effect that—
First. The Recky Mountains existed in embryo, at least, previous to the deposition of the older Paleozoic rocks, the presence of the upheaved Potsdam sandstone in the Black Hills region showing con clusively that this part of the country was buried beneath the waters of the primeva! ocean.
Second. Voleanic activity, which began as early as the Middle Tertiary, continued even into the present epoch.
Third. Previous to the deposition of the Lower Cretaceous strata the central portion of the continent was above the ocean level, the main portion of the Cretaceous sediments being deposited during the period in which a subsidence of several thousand feet took place.
Fourth. At the close of the Cretaceous age a period of elevation began, which continued to the drift epoch. This was succeeded by a period of depression and again by one of elevation.
Fifth. The great elevatory movement of the Rocky Mountains took place between the close of the Cretaceous period and that of the Miocene Tertiary.
Newberry was born in Connecticut, but his parents moving to Ohio when he was but two years of age, he passed his boyhood in what was then the western frontier. His father, in 1828, then living at Cuya-
hoga Falls, opened up the coal mines at Tallmadge,
Sketch of Newberry. making the first systematic attempt at introducing coal for fuel along the lake shore region. The abundant
and beautiful fossil flora found in the roof shales of these mines undoubtedly did much toward turning the young man’s thoughts toward science, and a visit from James Hall in 1841, while he was but nineteen years of age, still further stimulated his interest. He graduated at the Western Reserve College in 1846, and afterwards studied medicine, receiving the degree of M. D. in 1848. Two years were then passed in study abroad, during which time he made his first scientific publication—a description of a fossil-fish locality at Monte Bolea, Italy. In 1851 he returned to America and began the pursuit of medicine at Cleveland, but although acquiring a large practice he yas soon induced to give it up and enter upon a wider field of useful-

<<<Page: 545>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 23.
Professor of Geology, Columbia College, and State Geologist of Ohio.

<<<Page: 546>>>

dee re r Ary
eS ae

<<<Page: 547>>>

ness. In 1855 he became connected with Lieut. R. 5S. Williston’s survey in California, and later with that of the Ives Expedition to explore the Colorado, as well as with that of Capt. J. N. Macomb to explore the San: Juan region of Colorado and adjacent portions of Arizona, Utah, and New Mexico, as noted. In 1857 he became attached to the Smithsonian Institution in Washington and also accepted a professorship in Columbian University in the same city.
During the civil war he was attached to the Sanitary Commission,and in 1866 became professor of geology and paleontology in the School of Mines of Columbia College, New York, with which institution he remained connected until the time of his death in 1892. In 1869 he assumed charge of the geological survey of Ohio, as noted elsewhere. That the survey, in common with most others of its kind, came to an untimely end was no serious reflection upon Doctor Newberry, though, as his biographer remarks, a mistake was undoubtedly made in postponing the economic portions of the work until the last, and thereby arousing the antagonism of the rural members, one of whom is quoted as having remarked that too much nioney was devoted to ** clams and salamanders.” Newberry also did a large amount of paleontological work in connection with the surveys of Illinois, New Jersey, and the United States surveys under Hayden and Powell. His most important works were those in connection with the Illinois and Ohio surveys, and two monographs published by the United States Survey, one on the Paleozoic Fishes of North America, and the other on the Flora of the Amboy Clays of New Jersey, the latter being edited by Dr. Arthur Hollick after Newberry’s death.
Newberry is described as a man whose personality inspired confidence in others, though possessing little of what is known as executive ability—a man of kindly, cheerful disposition, and whose desire for fame never went so far as to cause him to assume credit for others work. A pleasing writer and conversationalist and accomplished musician, he made many friends and retained to the end the respect and love of all who knew him.
His shortcomings were known to his friends as well as were his excellencies; he was impetuous and sometimes he was severe, possibly unjust, in judging men or in dealing with them. But of bitterness he knew little; of forgiveness he knew much. His defects were those of a strong man; in many they would have been sources ot weakness, but somehow they seemed to make his friends stand more firmly by him.
Newberry’s work received prompt and ready recognition both at home and abroad. He was a charter member of the National Academy of Sciences; foreign correspondent of the London Geological Society, receiving the Murchison medal in 1888; president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1867; president of the New York Academy of Science for twenty-five years; vice-president
NAT Mus 1904——31

<<<Page: 548>>>

of the Geological Society of America, and president of the Interna-
tional Congress of Geologists in 1891, although then too ill to attend its meetings.
April 20, 1857, D. D. Owen, while State geologist of Kentucky, was appointed by the governor of Arkansas geologist of that State, the appointment to take effect *‘from and after the first day of October, Si se ee 1857,” at which time it was supposed the Kentucky
Richard Owen’s Iz wre 5 : Stale i 2 5 Rien ar Owens,s, Work would be brought to a close. Owen selected for
1857-1860. his assistants, E. T. Cox and Leo Lesquereux, with .
Joseph Lesley, for topographer, and Robert Peter and W. Elderhorst, chemists. Two large octavo volumes, comprising together some 689 pages, were issued in 1858 and 1860, the first having been printed apparently at Little Rock and the second in Philadelphia. They were illustrated with colored lithographs and engravings after originals in Owen’s well-known style.
On paleontological evidence the zine and lead-bearing rock of northwestern Arkansas, i. e., the 800 feet of Magnesian limestone and silicocalcareous rock that underlie the marble strata, forming about 250 to 300 feet of the lower and main body of the ridges of Marion County, were put down as of Lower Silurian age, and as in all probability belonging to that subdivision known as the Calciferous sandrock of the New York system. The ‘‘marble limestones” of northwestern Arkansas he was unable to fix definitely, but seemed to think it probable they would prove to represent the Onondaga of New York.
As to the origin of the lead ores, he wrote:
My impression is that the lead ore once occupied these north and south crevices, and was subsequently removed, in part or in whole, into its present bed by transportation, analogous to that known to mineralogists under the name of the pseudomorphous process, by which one mineral is removed while another takes its place, assuming often the form of the first mineral instead of the usual ‘form belonging to itself. * * * That it should have been deposited like a limestone or sandstone is altogether improbable, and contrary to the usual nature of such ponderous and difficultly soluble minerals.
The cause of the hot springs Owen considered to be the ** internal heat of the earth.” Not that the waters came actually in ‘‘ contact witb fire,” but rather that they were completely permeated with ‘*highly heated vapors and gases which emanate from sources deeper seated than the water itself.” ;
The snowy white novaculite from the vicinity of the hot springs he believed to be of the age of the millstone grit, and ‘‘once a simple ordinary sandstone. From the state of ordinary sandrock it has been altered or metamorphosed into this exquisitely tine material, not as I conceive, by contact with fire or igneous rock, but by the permeation of heated alkaline siliceous waters.” Through this permea"tion he conceived that ‘‘the particles of solid rock have been gradually

<<<Page: 549>>>

changed from grains of quartzose sand to impalpable silica, and the greater part of the oxide of iron, manganese, and other impurities carried out in solution from the pores of the rock, leaving nearly chemically pure silica behind.” Such changes are practically inconceivable, and the best authorities to-day regard the novaculites as siliceous replacement of limestone.
A large number of soil analyses were made by Doctor Peter ‘* with a view to settle that very important question” whether such can be of utility to the agriculturist in showing the relative fertility of soils and the loss sustained by cultivation. In Owen’s opinion such utility was established ‘in the most incontrovertible manner.”
Owen, it should be noted, died in 1860, and before the publication of the second report, which was brought out under the direction of. his brother Richard.”
Prof. Lewis Harper, whose work in Mississippi has been already referred to (p. 441), was succeeded as State geologist by EK. W. Hilgard, under whose efficient direction there was brought about the first and,
thus far, only systematic survey of the entire State. Sear sGeoogical His Report on the Geology and Agriculture of the eiesissippl State of Mississippi appeared in 1860. It contained a
systematic and fairly detailed account of the various formations of the State, together with a table of the formations, as shown on next page, the classification and terminology adopted being that of Safford and Tuomey.
“According to Branner (Journal of Geology, II, 1894, p. 826) the appropriations for this survey were vigorously combated by some of the legislators, one of whom, in his attempts to defeat the bill, introduced the following amendment:
Sec. 12. The same amount which is appropriated to the State geologist shall likewise be appropriated to a phrenologist, * * * anda like amount to an ornithologist and their several assistants, who shall likewise be appointed by the governor, and shall continue in office fifty-four years * * *; and the-secretary of state shall forward one copy of each report to the governor of each State in the Union except such as may be known to be black republican governors; also, one copy to the Queen of England and to the Emperors of France and Russia; also, a copy to the Queen of Spain: provided that government will sell Cuba to the United States on reasonable terms.
Sec. 14. It shall be the duty of the phrenologist to examine and report upon the heads of all the free white male and female citizens in the State, and their children, except such as may refuse to have their heads examined.

<<<Page: 550>>>

Table of the formations of Mississippi.
Name of group.
AWA == Second bottom. Yellow loam--.--
Bluff formation -
Orange sand
_.-| Sands, pebbles, clays
Principal materials. Soils asandebansetcee sss =ae WPCC Blinn ay Ae Se ooo sce a Brown and yellow brick clays (alcanreo Usa lieee eee
Coast Pliocene?. --Blackstendiclays=es-sseeee Grand Gulf group...) Light-colored clays; — white |
sandstones. | Vicksburg group | Marls and limestones ..---.-.-| [Gromit Cie aee | Black clays: = o.0 ses Se ee ee | Jackson group -----Marls and soft limestones ---
Lignitic
Blackuelayer sete sees eee
Fossils found.
Living plants and animals. (?) (?)
Terrestrial, part extinct.
These of underlying forma-
tions.
Living marine animals, living trees.
Plants, partly extinct? lignite. -
Marine animals. Plants, lignite. Marine animals.
Plants, lignite.
ge tage Marine animals.
; j Marls and limestones Claiborne group. ---Aa 7 J \Siliceous sandstones Marine animals.
Northern lignitic.... Black and gray clays; yellow
| Plants, partly extinct; lignite. sands.
Ripley group Marls and limestones; sandy --
Rotten limestone...-| Soft chalky likestone, clayey ..| Marine animals.
Tombighbee sand ..... Greenish micaceous sands. | Marine animals.
Butaw oroup.22-55. | Dark-colored clays; sand... --Marine animals; plants, ex| tinet; lignite.
Iinmestone==sacass. Fetid, crystalline limestone. ...| Marine animals.
Sand stomerse sss Siliceous sandstone and chert..| Marine animals.
Black slate ......--| Hydraulic limestone........-(?)
The Orange sand of Safford was shown to characterize the greater part of the surface of the State, and he regarded it as proved beyond question that its deposition had taken place in floating water, the general direction of the current of which was from north to south. By far the greater portion of the State was shown to be occupied by deposits of Tertiary age, leaving out of consideration the strata of Orange sand which covered a large part of the actual surface.
Hilgard’s work had an agricultural bearing and, as may be readily inferred from ‘the work of more recent years both in the Mississippi Valley and California, had to do largely with soils, their original physical and chemical constitution, and methods of rejuvenation,
Fic.68.—Eugene Waldemar Hilgard.

<<<Page: 551>>>

Ata meeting of the St. Louis Academy of Sciences, held on February 18, 1858, Prof. G. C. Swallow presented a paper announcing the finding of Permian fossils among some collections submitted to him for
og: identification by Maj. F. Hawn. This, as being the
Coe Kansas Posse. first apparently authentic announcement of the occur-
rence of Permian rocks on the American continent,
excited a great deal of interest and started a somewhat bitter personal
controversy between Hawn, Swallow, and Meek, which may be referred to in some detail.¢
Hawn, it appears, was a civil engineer engaged in the linear survey of Kansas, but whose interest in matters geological led him to make extensive collections of fossils. These, for purposes of identification, he divided, sending the supposed Cretaceous forms to F. B. Meek, then at Albany, New York, and the Carboniferous to G. C. Swallow, at Columbia, Missouri, the particular collection referred to in this controversy being made at the Smoky Hill Fork of the Kansas River.
The collections received by Meek were of such a character as to lead him to think that the beds from which they were taken might be Triassic or Permian, though perhaps belonging to the Upper Coal Measures. He immediately wrote Hawn, asking that he obtain for him other materials and, if possible, get from Professor Swallow all all of those forwarded to him which were not Carboniferous. To this Hawn readily agreed and wrote as follows:
Professor Swallow certainly will not attempt to interfere with you in this matter. He knows perfectly well the relation existing between us and expressed himself gratified that I was furnishing you with important information in furtherance of your investigation. Furthermore, he has not the data to establish a relation between the several points under review by you. I merely sent him the Carboniferous fossils for classification and comparison with those of the Missouri collection, that a parallel may be established in my further operations.
Again, under date of September 5, 1857, Hawn wrote to Meek:
I wrote to Professor Swallow * * * and requested him particularly to send you all the fossils that were not Carboniferous, as they were intended for your use. I hope he will comply with my request, as I shall not have time to go to see him.
And again, under date of September 9, of the same year:
Should this formation turn out to be as you anticipate, new and important, will you discuss the details in an article for my contemplated work on the mineral and agricultural characteristics of K. 'T., and describe the fossils that are new?
Under date of January 4, 1858, he wrote again:
[ have a letter before me from Professor Swallow in which he thinks the specimens sent him from Smoky Hill Fork are Carboniferous. Therefore suppose he has
“It should be noted that Marcou claimed priority in the discovery of Permian (Dyas) beds in America, the discovery haying been made while connected with the Pacific Railroad survey in 1853. (See his American Geological Classification and Nomenclature, Cambridge, 1888.) The correctness of his paleontological identification was questioned by Meek, White, Hall, and Newberry.

<<<Page: 552>>>

not sent you any fossils. Of course, I should not set up my.limited knowledge in
opposition, but I certainly have forms unknown to me and not oceurring in Carboniferous rocks of Missouri which I examined.
Under these conditions it is difficult to understand why Hawn should have later entered into a partnership with Swallow. for the working up of the collections and the publication of the results, and it is perhaps not to be wondered at that Meek should have denounced the proceeding somewhat harshly in a paper prepared under the joint auspices of himself and Hayden and read before the Albany Institute on March 2 of that year. Hawn, in a subsequent letter to Meek, excused himself on the ground that Meek’s letters had led him to believe that he had abandoned the investigation for want of time or for want of confidence in the final result, and that consequently he brought the matter to the attention of Swallow with the urgent request that the collections be worked up immediately, and at the same time notified him of Meek’s suggestion regarding their Permian nature. Swallow himself wrote a very conciliatory note to Meek, which seems, however, to have been far from healing the breach between the parties most concerned.
The facts of the matter, so far as they can be made out, both from the publications and the letters now in the archives of the Smithsonian Institution, seem to show that, beyond question, Meek was the first to recognize the possible Permian nature of the fossils in question; that he so notified Hawn, and supposed the matter was so arranged
Be 69 Deane that he could work the materials up at his
re leisure. In the meantime Hawn, as suggested in his letter, thinking that Meek had laid the matter aside, brought it to Swallow’s attention, who published the matter with almost unseemly haste in the Transactions,“ as well as in the local newspapers of the day. In addition, he gave the substance of the discovery ina letter to Dana, dated February 16, which was published as
an appendix of the American Journal of Science for March of that b
same year. On the Sth of March of this same year B. F. Shumard announced, at the Academy of Sciences at St. Louis, that certain fossils which his
a Swallow’s paper begins with the following statement, which illustrates his anxiety to claim priority in a discovery, the importance of which was greatly overestimated: ‘In presenting the following paper to the scientific world, we feel it incumbent upon ourselves to state that it has been prepared in great haste, in the midst of other pressing duties,”’ ete.
b Apparently inserted at the last moment before the number was bound up, and too late to be noted in the table of contents. ;

<<<Page: 553>>>

brother, Dr. G. G. Shumard, had brought from the white limestone
of the Guadalupe Mountains of New Mexico were, at
ehumardon Permian Jeast in part, identical with the Permian fossils of
. Kansas. This is referred to elsewhere (p. 485). Sub-
sequently the supposed Permian was recognized in Illinois by Hall from fossils sent to him by Worthen.
In the American Journal of Science for May of the year following (1859), Meek and Hayden had a paper on the so-called Triassic rocks of Kansas and Nebraska, in which they expressed the opinion ‘‘ that ae eee the entire series from near the top of the lower PerTriassicin Kansas = nian of Professor Swallow’s and Mr. Hawn’s sections, and Nebraska. :
down even lower than the horizon where they draw their line between the Coal Measures and the Permian, should be regarded most nearly related to the Carboniferous and might well be called Permo-Carboniferous.” This view for some time prevailed, but recent work has shown that beds, the equivalent of the true European Permean, are present in Kansas, Nebraska, the Guadalupe Mountains, and perhaps in other parts of the West as well.
Information regarding the geology of Texas up to this date (1858) had been gradually accumulating through the work of geologists connected with the various exploring expeditions, and more particularly ee eee through Ferdinard Roemer’s publications. Roemer, it Geologleal Surveyof may be well to remark, was a German who came to
America in 1845 for the purpose of geological exploration, and passed a year and a half in active work in “ere: The most important of his publications, the outcome of this work, was his Die Kreidebildungen von Texas, und ihre organischen Einschliisse, Bonn, 1852—a large quartdé of 100 pages of text and 11 plates of invertebrate fossils. In 1858 the first attempt at a systematic survey under State auspices was attempted, and Dr. B. F. Shumard, whose paleontological work in connection with explorations under Capt. R. B. Marcy and Colonel Pope have been already noted, was appointed State geologist. Shumard served, through much trial and tribulation, only to 1860, when he was suspended for political reasons,“ and Dr. Francis M. Moore, who had been one of his assistants, appointed in his place.
eee ie 5, 1860.
My Dear M.: Your kind letter reached me to-day, and I can not sufficiently thank you for the friendly feeling that prompted you to write it and for the course you have taken in refusing testimonials to the aspirant who desires to supplant me in the place I now occupy. I shall speak to you unreservedly, for I have had too many assurances of your friendship to doubt it. Of the qualifications of the person alluded to, to take charge of a work so important as the survey of this State, I need not inform you. What he knows of geology has not been gathered from study, but from conversations with geologists. Thus he at first made the Coal Measures of Fort Belknap Tertiary and wrote a long article which was published in the Texas papers! He then took some of the samé fossils that he relied upon to prove their Tertiary

<<<Page: 554>>>

But one report was issued, a pamphlet of 17 pages, bearing the date 1859. It very briefly outlined the work accomplished, laying considerable emphasis upon the presence of coal and other economic products, including petroleum. George G. Shumard was assistant geologist, W. P. Riddell, chemist, and A. Roessler, draftsman.
In a letter to J. D. Dana, and by the latter printed in the American Journal of Science for April, 1858, Professor Safford, then at Cumberland University, Lebanon, Tennessee, called attention to an important epee and previously unrecognized unconformability existing Unconiormability = between the Lower and Upper Silurian formations in
pee ube Lower
an pper Silurian ; AAG ] 1eatino: as ay at} Ee . ease Sa Tenne ssee, indicating, as he felt, the one time pr esence Tennessee, 1858-59. of an island some 80 to 90 miles in diameter in the Upper Silurian and Devonian seas, and occupying a central position
with reference to the present limits of the State. This he regarded as
age to the North, submitted them to ‘‘my friend Mr. Meek,’’ returned to Texas, and shortly after published a learned (?) article in which he referred these beds to the Coal Measures, their true age. I am aware that he professes to be a friend of mine, but I can ery, ‘‘save me from such friends.’’ He says truly that I am or have been in trouble, but all of the trouble has been caused either by himself or his friends. He spent some five or six weeks here last winter during the session of the legislature, and it is believed here that he used every endeayor to get either my position or that of one of my assistants, either of whom are much better geologists than he. Goyernor Runnels refused him the appointment solely on the ground of incompetency, and ‘insisted, for the same reason, that I should not give him the place of assistant. He has been a politician a.1 his life and for many years edited a leading political paper in this State. No one in this State believes him to be a geologist, although for political reasons some profess to think so. I believe conscientiously that if the geological survey of this State is abolished, it will be done through the maneuvering of Dr. M.’s friends or himself. It would have been abolished last winter had the legislature entertained the opinion that Dr. M. would be placed in charge of the survey. The people throughout the State feel a great interest in the survey. But the important work will assuredly cease with the next legislature if Houston makes the change. J do not know what encouragement Goy. Houston has given Dr. M. He (Houston) has removed every one of Runnel’s appointees, except myself, and but for the interference of some of Houston’s warmest admirers I should have shared the same fate ere this. I have had indirect assurances from influential Houston men that I am not to be disturbed. It may be, however, that he would like to remove ine simply from his hatred to Runnels, and that he would like to shield himself behind testimonials in Dr. M’s favor from such men as Professors Henry, Bache, and yourself. Or it may be that Dr. M. wishes the testimonials merely to induce Houston to give him the place. Of one thing I am quite certain, and that is, any testimonials he may succeed in procuring will be employed to the injury of the survey, 1) <oni%
Iam sorry that I have had to say unkind things of anyone, but in the matter of the Texas survey the case requires it. I shall feel much obliged to you if you will communicate the contents of this letter to Professor Henry, to whom I am under many obligations for many favors. I shall strive to merit the good opinion that he entertains of me.
* Ww : * * * *

<<<Page: 555>>>

probably elevated at the close of the Lower Silurian period and not again depressed until the beginning of the period marked by the deposition of the black shale (Upper Devonian). Later, in 1859, Saf ford pointed out the fact that the crinoidal and variegated marbles and ferruginous limestones of eastern Tennessee were originally deposited in the form of long, narrow belts, stretching in a northeast and southwest direction entirely across the State. This striking feature he accounted for on the supposition that the materials were deposited in long and narrow troughs, formed by earlier oscillations or corrugations of the earth’s crust, the conditions thus confirming the views held by Professor Dana as to the early Silurian age of the beginnings of the Appalachian oscillations. “ ~The geological survey of Pennsylvania, established under H. D. Rogers in 1836, came, it will be remembered, to an untimely end in 1842. Rogers being, however, unwilling to relinquish the work in its unfinished condition, continued it at his own expense
H.D.R rs’s Final : : ied . D ~ Reportsenthe until he was able in 1847 to make his final report to Geology of
Pennsylvania, 1858. the office of the secretary of the Commonwealth.
Here, for some unknown reason, the manuscript was allowed to lie until the spring of 1851, when appropriations were made for revising it and bringing it up to date. The appropriations were continued until 1855.
Gross mismanagement of the funds, for which, it is said, Rogers was in no way responsible, prevented the publication of the report, however, and it was not until 1858 that it was finally issued, and then only under a special contract between the author and the State, whereby the latter was to furnish the sum of $16,000 and Rogers was to receive 1,000 copies of the book and the original manuscript. The work was issued by W. Blackwood & Sons, London and Edinburgh, and J. P. Lippincott & Co., of Philadelphia, and was in the form of two quarto volumes containing 1,631 pages, with 23 full page plates, 18 folded sheets of sections, and 778 figures and diagrams in the text.
This was an epoch-making work, and beyond question the most important document on the geology of America that had appeared up to the date of issue, with the possible exception of the final reports of the New York surveys, issued in 1842-43. From these it so differed, however, as to be considered quite by itself. In the New York sur-
«These views are again advanced by Ulrich and Schuchert (Report of the New York State Paleontologist for 1901, pp. 633-663), who state that several folds were developed or older ones accentuated at the close of Beekmantown (Calciferous) time. Between these folds of the southern Appalachians during later Lower Siluric times was the ‘‘ Lenoir Basin,’’ ‘‘ containing several disconnected longitudinal folds high enough to affect the direction of currents and consequently the character of the sediments, and, in a smaller degree, faunal distribution.’ The variegated marbles are in the western or ‘‘ Knoxville trough ’’ of this basin.

<<<Page: 556>>>

vey stratigraphy based upon organic remains was ever uppermost. In the case of the Rogers reports quite the reverse is true, the physical side preponderating over everything else. While the value of fossils in determining the relative age of strata was recognized, yet out of the entire 1,631 pages but 20 are devoted to invertebrate paleontology and 47—by Lesquereux—to a description and discussion of the fossil flora of the Coal Measures. Naturally, many of the results given in these reports and the opinions expressed had found their way into print several years earlier, particularly through the publication of the American Association of Geologists and Naturalists. Especially was this the case with the results relative to Appalachian structure.
Rogers was aided by a considerable corps of assistants, many of whom afterwards became noted in the same lines of work. In 1836 these were John F. Frazer and James C. Booth: in 1837, Messrs. S. S. Haldeman, A. McKinley, C. B. Trego, and J.-D. Whelpley, with Dr. R. E. Rogers as chemist. In 1838 Messrs. H. D. Holl, J. T. Hodge, R. M. Jackson, J. C. McKinney, P. W. Schaeffer, T. Ward, and M. H. Boye were added to the force. In 1839 J. Peter Lesley and Doctor Henderson were added in place of Messrs. Whelpley and McKinney, who resigned. In 1840 the personnel was essentially the same. In 1841 it was reduced to Messrs. McKinley, Holl, Jackson, Lesley, Boye, and Doctor Rogers. In 1851 the geological assistants were Prof. EK. Desor and W. B. Rogers, jr., Peter Lesley and A. A. Dalson serving as topographers.
The first volume of these reports treated of the metamorphic rocks and the Paleozoic strata. The second volume began with a discussion of the coal basins of the State, to which over 600 pages were devoted. Some 30 pages were devoted to a discussion of the rocks of the Mesozoic red sandstone series, which was followed by a discussion, first upon the igneous rocks and minerals with special bearing upon their economic value; second, the conditions of the physical geography during the laying down of the Paleozoic strata of the United States; third, the organic remains of the State; fourth, the laws of structure of the more disturbed zones of the earth’s crust; fifth, the classification of the several types of petrographic structure illustrated in the Appalachians; sixth, the coal fields of the United States and British provinces, with their chemical and physical characters; seventh, the method of searching for, opening, and mining coal, as pursued in Pennsylvania; eighth, foreign coal fields and coal trade and statistics of the iron trade.
The nonfossiliferous rocks underlying the old Paleozoic were classified as //ypozoic or true metamorphic and Azozc or semimetamorphic, the Hypozoic including the true gneisses and crystalline schists, and the Azoic or semimetamorphic strata *‘ various coarse talcoid and

<<<Page: 557>>>

chloritic schists, semiporphyritic, arenaceous grits and conglomerates, and jaspery and plumbaginous slates,” carrying veins and dikes of a metalliferous character.
He recognized the difficulty in at all times separating the Azoic rocks from the overlying genuine Paleozoic, and also the fact that it might at times grade into it without a break, Also he recognized the fact that a portion of his Lower Paleozoic was metamorphic or semimetamorphic. When one reflects on how emphatically Rogers combated Emmons’s Taconic system, it seems strange that he should hold to these views.
The belt of metamorphic and semimetamorphic strata extending from Newfoundland to Alabama he designated as the Appalachian or Atlantic Belt, and the one extending westward from the north coast of the St. Lawrence Gulf to the Great Lakes as the Laurentide, owing to the fact that these latter rocks were well developed in the Laurentide Mountains.
The semimetamorphic Azoic rocks he considered as richer in minerals than the true gneisses, and to these he referred the schists of the Atlantic coasts, bearing lead, copper, zine, and iron, and the auriferous quartz veins of California.
The Paleozoic formation proper, which was estimated to cover probably one-half of the total area of the United States and to have a total thickness of from 30,000 to 35,000 feet, was divided into fifteen distinct series or sets of formations, ‘extending from the deposits which witnessed the very dawn of life upon the globe to those which saw the close of the long American Paleozoic day.” The names assigned to these formations he regarded as ‘‘significant of the different natural periods into which the day divides itself, from the earliest dawn to twilight.” These were, beginning with the oldest, Primal, Auroral, Matinal, Levant, Surgent, Scalent, Pre-Meridian, Meridian, PostMeridian, Cadent, Vergent, Ponent, Vespertine, Umbral, and Seral— signifying the Dawn, Daybreak, Morning, Sunrise, Ascending day, High morning, Forenoon, Noon, Afternoon, Waning day, Descending day, Sunset, Evening, Dusk, and Nightfall. These terms, based on time, he considered preferable to the inexpressive ones, mainly of a geographic character, then in vogue.
The Primal, Auroral, and Matinal were regarded as the approximate representatives of Sedgwick’s Cambrian; the Levant, Surgent, Scalent, and Pre-Meridian, near representatives of the English Silurian, beginning with the Upper Caradoc Sandstones. He recognized both a physical and paleontological break in the succession of strata at the contact of these two great divisions of the Paleozoic system. At the base of the Carboniferous he thought to recognize a break correspondingly sharp.

<<<Page: 558>>>

The entire Paleozoic system was thus divided -into three natural divisions, as follows:
Sera aan Coal Measures. Upper Paleozoic -;Umbral ___._-‘Carboniferous----;Middle Carboniferous. . Vespertine| (Lower Carboniferous. "Ponent ; D , Catskill. eatin vatter evonian ss “~ |Chemung and Portage. Vergent.....-and Carbonitfer7 ° ¢ and Carbonifer)~ : A tips ‘ Genesee, Hamilton, and Mar( adent =~ S555 05 ous. ; cellus.
. . Post: Meridian-| ojaey Deena ee pper Helderberg. Middle Paleozoic.{ Meridian ---\Oriskany. Lower Helderberg.
Pre-Meridian . Onondaga Salt Group and Ni-
Scalent ar aor 4 Set Sikri 2-55 55sc2 agara Limestone. Surgent...--.Clinton. \Levant -....-Medina. Trenton Limestone, Utica and Pee got ass Hudson River slates. Lower Paleozoic ./Auroral _._.-(Camilbrrannessseee {Black River, Chazy limestone, Prins eae eee | | and Caleiferous sandstone. Potsdam.
The sediments making up these Paleozoic strata were, according to his views, derived from a land area now occupied. by the Tertiary seaboard plain and the waters of the Atlantic Ocean. This deposition was preceded by a wide movement of depression, which began in the south or southwest and permitted the waters of the Appalachian sea to occupy what is now the upper half of the southern Atlantic slope. There was, however, left above water to the southeast of the present Atlantic plain, a large tract of continent or great chain of islands which, with numerous fluctuations in their limits, remained as such down to the close of the Carboniferous period.
He considered it as ‘t susceptible of demonstration that the various coal basins, bituminous and anthracitic, of Pennsylvania, Maryland, Ohio, Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee were originally united,” ‘*the whole as one great formation.” This is essentially the view held to-day. The structure of the coal, as he viewed it, rendered ** it apparent that no irregular dispersion of the vegetable matter by any conceivable mode of drifting * * * could produce the phenomena which they exhibit,” and he could not conceive of ‘any state of the surface adapted to account for these appearances, but that in which the margin of the sea was occupied by vast marine savannahs of some peat-creating plant, growing half immersed on a perfectly horizontal plain, and this fringed and interspersed with forests of trees, shedding their leaves on the marsh.” In this he agreed with Beaumont, though his evidence was of different character. He further believed that the coal material became finally engulfed through earthquake action, the sea receding and then returning once more laden with detritus, carrying everything before it and reaching far inland. Thus the entire

<<<Page: 559>>>

marginal forest growth might be uprooted and as the sea again retreated the material would be spread broadeast and mixed with coarse rock detritus. When finally the earthquake paroxysms ceased and the sea became quiet, the fine silt in suspension was deposited, forming thus the soil for another growth.
The regular decrease in.the amount of volatile bituminous matter in the coal as one passes from west to east was accredited to the action of the— prodigious quantity of intensely heated steam and gaseous matter emitted through the crust of the earth, by the almost infinite number of cracks and crevices which must have been produced during the undulation and permanent bending of the strata. The coal in the east basin would thus be effectually steamed, and raised in temperature in every part of the mass would discharge its bituminous matter in proportion to the energy of the disturbance.
Rogers, it should be noted, found in the American Carboniferous no recognizable base defined by organic remains alone, and in his classifiration relied mainly on the suddenness of the change from marine to terrestrial forms and the rapid appearance of that amazing vegetation characteristic of the coal period.
He conceived the Connecticut red sandstone as having been deposited on sloping shores within a narrow estuary, its greatest depth near its eastern margin, the material itself having been derived from the west. The sandstone west of the Hudson in New York State he believed to have been deposited in an estuary having its greatest depth to the northwest, the materials being derived from the southeast. The period, he argued, was ushered in by a sudden agitation of the region, resulting in an abrupt depression of the tidal portions of each tract below the general ocean level. Into these depressions the suddenly displaced drainage would drop a lot of fragmentary material such as would form the lower lying conglomerates. Finer materials brought in later by stream action, and more or less modified by tides, formed the upper beds. He agreed with Emmons in regarding these Mesozoic sands as of Jurassic and Oolitic age.
One of the most important chapters in the work related to types of orographic structure and the physical structure of the Appalachian chain, which was worked out in conjunction with his brother, Prof. William B. Rogers. This formed the substance of a paper read before the Association of American Geologists at its third session in April, 1542. and already noted under that date (see p. 370). It is well to recall, however, that, under the title of D¢slocation of an Anticlinal Avis Plane Oninverted Side of Wave Shoved Over the Inverted, he described and illustrated the overthrust faults of the modern geologist, and remarked on their misleading character, owing to the resulting dipping of younger strata beneath those which are older.
The origin of valleys occupying the crests of anticlinal ridges, which he designated as ‘‘ valleys of elevation,” he rightly described as due to

<<<Page: 560>>>

the carving force of waters. The mountains themselves he thought to have been elevated by successive but sudden earthquake movements through and above the ocean; the water of which, as a consequence, was propelled in gigantic billows and rushing sheets transversely across the anticlinal ridges, scooping them out where weakest into the form of terraced oval valleys.
Slaty cleavage was looked upon as due not to movement, purely, but to the action of heat waves traversing the rocks. In proof of this, he cited his observations to the effect that, in gneisses lying in an undisturbed horizontal position, the foliation is almost invariably coincident with the stratification, the heat producing it having flowed upward, invading stratum after stratum. Where granite occurs invading gneissic strata, the foliation, according to his views, is parallel to the plane of outflowing heat. He thought to discover two general laws: First, that the planes of foliation ‘tare parallel to the waves of heat which have been transmitted through the strata,” and second, ‘‘the foliation is parallel or approximately so to the cleavage, when both occur in the same rock mass.
A singular and, to the present writer, unaccountable discrepancy in the work of Rogers lies in his almost completely ignoring the latest glacial views as advocated by Agassiz and others. ‘Fhe fact that the greater part of the work was completed and the manuscript prepared prior to 1848 can scarcely be considered a sufficient reason, since the years 1851-1855 were devoted to its revision and bringing it up to date. Moreover, his mention of the fact that the marine Pleistocene formation of Canada had been designated Laurentian clays by Desor (in 1850), shows that he was at least conversant with the literature of the period; the fact that he had considered, if not fully comprehended, Agassiz’s views, Is shown by a brief paragraph, in which he described and figured drift stri# seen on an exposed surface of Umbral sandstone on the south side of the Wyoming Valley. These are described as pointing up the slope toward the southwest, ‘tas if produced by fragmentary débris violently propelled against the sloping mountain wall of the valley from the north.” The presence of such ascending striw, both here and elsewhere, effectually refuted, according to his conception of it, the glacial theory of their origin. Like Hitchcock, he failed to conceive of other than local mountain glaciers of the Swiss type. Without mentioning the name of Agassiz or other of his collaborators than that of Desor, he gave the following, even then antiquated matter, after a general discussion of the distribution of the drift and the various phenomena accompanying it. For the earlier drift, it should be noted, he offered no explanation whatever other than implied in a reference to a period of repose which ** separated the convulsed epochs of the earlier general and later local drift.”
A ready explanation of the origin of this newest Pleistocene deposit (i. e., that of the Hudson and Lake Champlain districts) suggests itself when we consider the

<<<Page: 561>>>

nature and energy of the crust movements which lifted the Laurentian clays and sands to a height, in one locality at least, of not less than 500 feet, and which drained wide tracts of the Upper Laurentian lakes. The mere agitation or pulsating movement of the.crust, if unaccompanied by any permanent uplift of the land, would suffice we would think, by lashing the waters of the tidal estuaries in one quarter and the lakes in the other, to strew a portion of the older drift bordering all those basins in wide dispersion upon the top of the more tranquil sediments; but if such a pulsation of the crust were accompanied with successive paroxysmal liftings of wide tracts of the land, then the inundation would take the form of stupendous currents, the strewing power of which would be adequate to any amount of superficial transportation, even to the remote transportation of the larger erratics.
His ideas regarding vein formation and the origin of quartzite were equally crude. Thus, speculating on the wide distribution of the Potsdam sandstone, its remarkable uniformity and purely quartzose nature, he wrote with particular reference to the last:
May we not conjecture that this * * * was supplied from the great dikes and veins of auriferous quartz, which * * * issued in a melted condition through the rents and fissures of the crust over all the region of the Atlantic slope. * * * Outgushing bodies of this quartz mingled with volcanic steam, and suddenly chilled and pelted upon by cold and heavy rains, may have been granulated into sand, as would occur with heated unannealed glass, and then washed in copious streams into broad, shallow, and tide-moved sea, and there gradually dispersed and precipitated.
From the above it will appear that Rogers was a catastrophist. Further than that, viewed in the light of to-day, many of the conclusions which he drew from observed phenomena and the theories advanced are strikingly absurd for a man of his learning. This is particularly true with reference to his ideas on the formation of anthracite (p. 372), the origin of valleys (p. 493) and mountain chains (p. 371), and that of the Potsdam sandstone just mentioned. Indeed, his entire work well illustrates the peculiar, uneven make-up (if I may be allowed the expression) of some of our best workers. Gifted with a mind unequaled for power of observation and deduction, he was yet wholly deficient in theory.“ ‘* Great men, of great gifts you shall easily find, but symmetrical men, never.”
“The work was favorably reviewed in the American Journal of Science for November, 1859, almost the only unfavorable criticism relating to the deficiency of paleontological work and the geological nomenclature adopted. ‘* The author has left this great department (of paleontology) of the survey to future workers. This being so, the author has hardly a broad enough basis for the institution of a new system of nomenclature and of subdivisions for the Paleozoic formations, and especially for diverging in these respects from the New York survey, in which the subdivisions had been founded upon a thorough study of the organic remains. The names of these subdivisions, Auroral, Matinal, Levant, Surgent, and so on, can not be proved to be better than those before adopted. They are founded on the idea of a Paleozoic day, which has had no existence except in the fancy of the writer. This unfortunate framework, about which Professor Rogers has clustered his facts, is no serious impediment to the geological reader who has a key at hand for comparison.
The work isa great one, worthy of the State which authorized the survey. It contains a vast amount of information in all its departments, and will ever rank among the most important of the reports of the geology of the United States.

<<<Page: 562>>>

As previously noted (p. 483), J. G. Norwood, State geologist of Ilinois, was succeeded in 1858 by Amos H. Worthen. Under the latter's direction the survey lasted until 1875, when active field work was disnee ere continued, owing apparently to an indisposition on Work in Illinois, the part of the legislature to provide the necessary
funds. Six volumes of reports had been issued up to this time, and by the aid of subsequent special appropriations, two more were completed, the last bearing the date 1890, and on the title page the name of Joshua Lindahl, State geologist, and Worthen as director. The total published results of this survey amounted to upward of 4,000 pages of text and 197 full-page plates of fossils.
Worthen was aided at various times during the work by J. D. Whitney, Leo Lesquereux, Henry Engelmann, J. 5. Newberry, F. B. Meek, H. C. Freeman, H. M. Bannister, H. A. Green, James Shaw, G. C. Broadhead, Orestes St. John, and E. T. Cox. The work of Whitney naturally related to the mining problems of the State, Lesquereux to the paleobotany, Meek to the invertebrate paleontology, Newberry to the vertebrate paleontology, and the others mentioned to general stratigraphy.
In the first volume of his work Worthen divided the sub-Carboniferous into five groups: The Chester, St. Louis, Keokuk, Burlington, and Kinderhook, the term Chester group being used in place of the Kaskaskia of Hall, and the St. Louis including the Warsaw of Hall. The blue, green, and chocolate-colored shales immediately underlying the Kinderhook group in western and southern Illinois he regarded as Devonian.
Whitney, in his report, regarded the Galena limestone as the ‘sole depository of lead in western Illinois,” a view not quite in agreement with that expressed with reference to the lowa and Wisconsin fields. Two maps were given in this report—one a geological map of the northwest corner of the State, and the other showing a diagram of the lead-bearing crevices near Galena. The origin of these leadbearing crevices ‘tseems to be the same cause by which what are called joints by geologists have been formed in almost every variety of rock, occurring in large homogeneous masses, and especially where a decided crystalline texture exists in them.” The course of the main set of fissures he thought might have been determined by the axis of upheaval, by which the whole region had been slowly elevated along the north boundary of the district, the metals themselves having been held in solution in oceanic waters and precipitated through the agency of decomposing organic matter.4
«This is essentially the view held to-day, with this difference: Most geologists believe that the ore was originally disseminated throughout the limestone, and that it has become segregated in veins and pockets through the leaching action of meteoric waters,

<<<Page: 563>>>

Lesquereux, in connection with his paleobotanical work, took occasion to announce his adherence to the view that the coals were the result of the accumulation of sphagnous mosses, in place, i. e., were not drift. He also introduced a chapter on the origin of prairies. in which he took the ground ‘that all the prairies of the Mississippi Valley were formed through the slow recession of sheets of water of varying extent, whereby the existing lakes were gradually transformed into swamps and bogs and ultimately into dry land. The black surface soil of the prairies he thought to be due to the growth and decomposition of bog vegetation, conferve, etc.” With this view Worthen, in the fifth volume of the reports, did not wholly agree. No one theory, he thought, was sufficient to explain all the phenomena noted, though the chief cause of the treelessness of the prairtes he felt to be due to the character of the soil itself. The loess Worthen regarded as of fluviatile origin. Concerning the origin of the drift as a whole, he wrote:
Thus it will be seen that the first and greatest of the drift forces was the glacier; then the floating iceberg and ice field produced their results, carrying the large bowlders from place to place and dropping them over the ice-cold seas; and lastly, the wave and current force of water, after the ice had in part or altogether melted, leaving the loose clays, sands, and subsoils, substantially as we find them.
In his second report, published in 1866, Worthen adhered to the determination first published in the Transactions of the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences, 1865, to call by the name of the Cincinnati group the rocks of the State grouped by Hall under the name of Hudson River. This volume was devoted wholly to the paleontology of the State, and contained articles by Newberry, Meek, Worthen, and Lesquereux. Newberry, in his work on the fossil fishes, accounted for the abundance of some of these forms in certain strata as due perhaps to the sudden introduction of ** heated waters or noxious gases” in the Carboniferous seas where these forms lived.
The third volume appeared in 1868, and was given up to a discussion of the geology of the various counties, with paleontology by Meek and Worthen.
The fourth volume appeared in 1870. It was devoted quite largely to paleobotany by Lesquereux, vertebrate paleontology by Newberry and Worthen, and descriptive geology of the various counties by Worthen, Bannister, Bradley, and Green.
Worthen was born in Vermont in 1813, and educated in the common schools and the local academy. In 1834 he emigrated to Kentucky, and in 1836 removed thence to Warsaw, Illinois, where he
made his permanent home. Until 1855 he was engaged
Sketch of Worthen. in mercantile pursuits, but devoted all his spare time
to a study of the local geology, to which he was at-
tracted by the abundant fossil remains for which the region was noted. NAT Mus 1904——32

<<<Page: 564>>>

At the time he began his work satisfactory text-books were few and the difficulties which he encountered in addition may be best understood when it is remembered that work was undertaken more than fifty years ago, when railroads were practically unknown, when postage on a single letter cost 25 cents, and when, moreover, money was scarce and labor cheap. There being no overland freight or express lines, all his exchanges of specimens with friends in the East were made by means of Mississippi River steamboats between Warsaw and New Orleans, and Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic sailing vessels between New Orleans and Boston. Often months would elapse between the time of his sendings and return of exchange material. |
In 1851 Worthen first began attendance upon the meetings of the American Association, and in 1853, as noted, took part in the survey of the State of Illinois, under the direction of J. G. Norwood. From 18551857 he was assistant to James Hall on the survey of Lowa, and in 1858 was made State geologist of Illinois in place of Norwood, as already mentioned.
Worthen’s own labors related principally
-to the Carboniferous rocks, and to him belongs the credit of being: the first to work out the true relations of the divisions of the Lower Carboniferous system in this section.
Personally, as we are told by his biogra-
pher, Worthen was of manly presence, kindly, candid, and of unpretentious manner, impulsive and generous to his friends, charitable even to those with whom he had little sympathy, but uncompromising in his love of justice and scientific truth. His thorough interest in his work is shown by his persistent continuation of the same under the most adverse conditions. Again and again his work was in danger of suspension by the threatened failure of the necessary appropriations by the legislature, and more than once they were so far reduced that only the most careful management averted disaster. Once during 1875-1877 the appropriations were aliowed to entirely fail, but he continued his work without compensation and with such sincerity of purpose that they were resumed by the next legislature.
Lesquereux, whose paleobotanical work has been on several occasions described in these pages, and to whom we shall again have occasion to refer, was born at Fleurier, Switzerland, in 1806, and came to America with Arnold Guyot, about 1848. His early scientific studies were on living plants; but later, and particularly after coming to America, he turned his attention almost exclusively to fossil forms. His work on the coal plants of Obio, Pennsylvania, Illinois, and
Fig. 70.—Amos Henry Worthen.

<<<Page: 565>>>

Arkansas began in 1850, and his papers appear in the geological surrey reports of all these States. His work on the coal flora of Pennsylvania was particularly valuable, forming what was at the time the most re work on Carboniferous plants published in America. Lesquereux became early connected with the Hayden surveys, and ie the time of his death, in 1889, was actively engaged in the study of the materials collected by members of this organization. Deaf from early manhood, a foreigner, with but poor command of English, he labored under enormous disadvantages. To an interviewer he once remarked:
Sketch of Lesquereux.
The science student’s life is absorbed with grave and serious truths; they are naturally serious men. My associations have been almost entirely of a scientific nature. My deafness cut me off from everything that lay outside of science. I have lived with nature, the rocks, the trees, the flowers. They know me. I know them. All outside are dead to me.
In April, 1858, Henry Youle Hind, of Toronto, was authorized by the provincial government of Canada to explore the region ** lying to the west of Lake Winnipeg and Red River, and embraced (or nearly so) between the rivers Saskatchewan and Assiniboine. as far west as South Branch House on the former river.” He was directed further PR Taha i: to procure all the information in his power respectpyiiaiver Counizy, 1m the geology, natural history, topography, and
iets of the region. The work was accomplished between June 14 and October 31, the results being published in 1859 in form of a thin quarto volume of 201 pages, with a colored geological map, two plates of fossils, and other maps, figures, and sections. The region was described as occupied by Laurentian gneisses to the east of Lake Winnipeg, succeeded to the west by Silurian, Devonian, and Cretaceous formations. The Cretaceous fossils were described by F. B. Meek and the Devonian and Silurian forms by E. Billings.
Hall’s principal contribution to strictly physical geology was that relating to the accumulation of sediments and the formation of mountain chains. The first brief announcement of this was made in his Hall's Views on ae on the geology ue Iowa, (p. wie In Ae He Mowutatabeidae, brought the matter before the public once more in his eines address before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at Montreal. This address was, however, not printed at the time, and it was not until two years later that he
Fic, 71.—Leo Lesquereux.

<<<Page: 566>>>

formulated his views and gave them in extension in part six of the third volume of the Natural History of New York. In 1869, in an address on the Geological History of the North American Continent, delivered before the American Institute of New York, he reiterated many of the opinions previously announced, and, finally,.in 1882 brought out the original address of 1857, and this, it is said, without revision. Whatever changes or additions it was found desirable to make were added in the form of supplementary notes. The subject may, therefore, be conveniently reviewed at this date (1859).
Hall had shown that one simple and intelligible sequence of strata, from the Potsdam sandstone to the end of the Coal Measures, covered, with slight exceptions, the entire country from the Atlantic slopes, to the base of the Rocky Mountains, and that while the horizontal strata gave their whole elevation to the highest parts of the plain, the same beds were folded and contorted in the mountain region, thus giving to the mountain elevation not one-sixth of their actual thickness.. He thought to have shown conclusively that the line of greatest accumulation of sediments had been along the direction of the Appalachian chain; in other words, that the Appalachian chain was itself due to the original deposition of materials and not to any subsequent action or influence breaking up and dislocating the strata of which it was composed.
Discussing the cause of this folding and plication, he referred to the fact previously recognized by Herschel to the effect that sea bottoms, when loaded by accumulated sediments, undergo a process of subsidence which may cause an elevation of the adjacent continental areas, a principle which was then becoming generally recognized and which bas since become known under the name of /sostacy. When, then, these sediments were spread along a belt of sea bottom, as originally in the line of the present Appalachian chain, the first etfect would be to produce a yielding of the earth’s crust beneath and a gradual subsidence. Evidence of this subsidence was furnished by the great amount of material accumulated, for it was impossible, he argued, to suppose that the sea had been originally as deep as the thickness of the accumulations (some 40,000 feet).
The line of greatest depression would, therefore, be along the lines of greatest accumulation. By such a process of subsidence the lower side of the accumulations would become gradually curved and stretched, and there would follow, as a sequence, rents and fractures. On the surface above, which would be contracted horizontally by such subsidence, there would be produced wrinkles and foldings of the strata. Into the rifts formed below it was conceivable there might rush fluid or semifluid material, producing what are now evident as trap dikes.
The sinking of the mass would produce a great synclinal axis, and within this axis, whether on a large or small scale, would be produced

<<<Page: 567>>>

numerous smaller synclinal and anticlinal axes. The greater amount of compression above or stretching below along the line of maximum thickness of the sediments would account for the gradual decline toward the margin of the major syncline or the evidences of fracture and distortion. This, he thought, afforded a partial explanation of the fact that mountain elevations in disturbed regions bear, in their altitude, a much smaller proportion to the actual thickness of the formation than do the hills in undisturbed regions; and, further, that since in the formation of an anticline the beds are weakest at the ridge and become more liable to denudation, such are often worn down to form low. ground or even deep valleys, while the synclinal arches, being protected in the downward curvings of the beds, may remain to form the prominent mountain crests, as is observable in the southern Appalachians. It nowhere seemed to him that folding or plication had contributed to the altitude of the mountains, but rather that the more extreme the plication the greater had been the general degradation of the mass wherever subjected to denuding agencies.
The chief elevation of the Appalachian chain, he argued, was continental and not of local origin, and the present mountain barriers to him were but the visible evidences of the deposits upon an ancient ocean bed, while the determining cause of their elevation existed long anterior to the production of the mountains themselves.
At no point nor along any line between the Appalachian and Rocky Mountains could the same forces have produced a mountain chain, because the materials of accumulation were insufficient, and though we may trace what appears to be the gradual subsiding influences of these forces, it is simply in these instances due to the paucity of the material upon which to exhibit its effects.
Referring to the amount of metamorphism which these rocks had undergone, Hall thought that we must look to some other agency than heat for the production of the phenomena, and that the ‘* prime cause must have existed within the material itself; that the entire change was due to motion or fermentation and pressure aided by a moderate increase of temperature, producing chemical change.” Just what is meant by this it is difficult to say, but, inasmuch as Hall seems to have been in consultation with Sterry Hunt, it is safe to assume that it was intended to include all possible causes which future investigation might show to have been operative.
These views of Hall seem not to have been favorably received at first by the American geologists, and were facetiously referred to by Dana as proposing a system of mountain making with mountains left out. To this Hall very justly replied that he had not intended to offer any new theory of elevation, nor to propound any principle as involved beyond what had been suggested by Babbage and Herschel. What he did intend to imply was that mountain elevation was due to sedimentary accumulation and subsequent continental elevation.

<<<Page: 568>>>

Hunt, coming to Hall's assistance, argued that his views were largely in harmony with those previously maintained by masters in the science of geology, de Montlosier, as early as 1832, having declared that the great mountain chains of Europe were but the remains of continental elevations which had been cut away by denudation, the foldings and inversions in the structure of mountains being looked upon as local and accidental.
Joseph Le Conte, in a later paper, was inclined to criticise Hall’s theory as insuflicient, but a statement of his views, as well as those of Dana, may be left to their proper place in chronobogical succession.
In 1859 Henry Engelmann accompanied, as geologist, an expedition commanded by Capt. J. Hl. Simpson, organized for the purpose of opening new wagon routes for military purposes across the Great Basin of Utah. Engelmann’s report, accom-
panied by one of Meek’s on
pngelmann's Work the invertebrate fossils, formed Appendixes I and
K of the general report of the expedition. Originally, as it would appear from the text, the manuscript was accompanied by a er? B= geological map and profile, though such do ae) 72 Henry Baselines not seem to have been published. No explanation is offered, but it is probable
that developments during the long interval up to time of publication” were such as to make the map of doubtful value, and it was suppressed. Engelmann’s observations began with the country in the immediate vicinity of Leavenworth. He noted the presence of rocks of Carboniferous and Permo-Carboniferous ages along the Republican River, and of Cretaceous and Tertiary deposits farther west. In the district leading from the eastern foothills of the Rocky Mountains to the divide between the waters of the Atlantic and Pacific he thought to recognize rocks of Silurian and probably Devonian, Carboniferous, Permian, Triassic, J UPASSIC, Cretac eons; and Tertiary aoe
«Owing to ‘the pane of the civil war, me aeoreteed of ae eae was deed until 1876.

<<<Page: 569>>>

GHAP TER V Lk.
The period of the civil war might naturally be expected to be a period of uncertainty and inaction in matters relating to the sciences.
In all the seceding States work then in progress was brought abruptly to a close, and in several of them—as Missouri, North Carolina, and Texas—the records so far lost or ruined through neglect as to make them well-nigh valueless for future reference. Throughout the North the results were comparatively less disastrous, though even there work was in some instances temporarily discontinued, owing to the failure of legislatures to make the necessary appropriations. In four instances, however (California, Indiana, Maine, and New Jersey), surveys were established almost in the midst of the threatened disaster.
With the passing of these years of turmoil, active work was begun once more in States where it had been but temporarily suspended, and in others, new organizations authorized, as in Kansas in 1864, Iowa and North Carolina in 1866, and Louisiana, Michigan, and Ohio in 1869. A futile and ill-considered attempt at a State survey of Nevada was also made in 1866 (7), but, fortunately for the reputation both of the science and the individual, no one was found to undertake the work under the conditions proposed.“ W. E. Logan continued his work as provincial geologist of Canada, and Murray and Richardson were employed in Newfoundland.
The literature of the decade was scarcely as voluminous as in either the preceding or the one following. By far the most important, when all is taken into consideration, was the first edition of Dana’s Manual of Geology—a work of 798 pages, which at once took its place as the
leading authority on all matters pertaining to American Geology—a place which it has continued to hold through all its four editions down to the present. In addition to this may be mentioned Logan’s summation of the geology of Canada (1863) and Cooke’s New Jersey (1863).
This was largely an era of new workers, or, at least, new leaders. Eaton was gone; D. D. Owen died at its very beginning; the elder Hitchcock had largely ceased his labors; while the Rogers brothers had both become absorbed in the work of teaching and administration, and no longer took an active part. Dana was undoubtedly the leading
«The sum of $6,000 is stated to have been appropriated, with the stipulation that the survey be completed in eight months.

<<<Page: 570>>>

figure, while James Hall, by sheer physical energy, dominated in mat— ters paleontological. Many new names and faces appear. Among them may be mentioned those of T. B. Brooks, E. Billings, Robert Bell, E. T. Cox, E. D. Cope, F. V. Hayden, C. H. Hitchcock, W. C:; Kerr, W. E. Logan, Alexander Murray, J. G. Norwood, Edward Orton, R. Pumpelly, C. Rominger, N. S. Shaler, C. A. White, and C hese Whittlesey.
As a whole, the decade was one of extension of the geographic boundaries of knowledge rather than one of discovery or announcement of new principles. Of all subjects, that of glaciation received, perhaps, the most attention. Our line of separation between this and the decade to follow must be quite arbitrary, since several important surveys were organized during 1869 and continued well on into the seventies.
At the very beginning of this era there appeared R. Thomassy’s Geologie Pratique de la Louisiane, a small quarto volume of 263 pages, with 6 plates. Why the word ‘‘ pratique” should have been ee introduced into the title it is hard to say, a large proPractical Geology of portion of the work being given up to geographical
and meteorological or physiographical matters, and the really geological portion limited to a description and discussion of the lower Mississippi, its delta, and attendant phenomena. Its appearance seems to have excited little interest, not being even noted in the American Journal of Science, and the few original ideas advanced are referred to by Hilgard and other subsequent writers only to show their erroneous nature.
Thomassy dwelt in considerable detail upon the absorption of the waters of the Mississippi by the porous terranes above New Orleans and their consequent diminution in volume seaward. The ‘‘mud lumps,” so common in the lower reaches of the river, he regarded as due to mud springs, having their source at a somewhat higher level | on the land and opening upward in the bed of the stream.
He considered North Island, or Petite Anse, as it is more commonly known, as of volcanic origin, and thought to have discovered traces of the violent corrosive action of thermal waters and acids on the rock fragments which he conceived to have been ejected from the depths of the Gulf through explosive action. Richard Owen, it may be mentioned, while serving in theFederal Army and stationed at New Iberia, Louisiana, studied these deposits cursorily, and came to the conclusion that the island was not volcanic. On the contrary, he — thought the salt was the product of evaporation of modern sea water, forming lagoons behind protecting ridges under the influence of occasional high tides. (See also Hilgard’s views, p. 561.)
In 1859, largely through the efforts of Alexander Winchell, then professor 4 physics antl civil engineering in the State University,

<<<Page: 571>>>



<<<Page: 572>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 24.
Professor of Geology and Paleontology, University of Michigan, and State Geologist of Michigan.

<<<Page: 573>>>

there was established a geological survey of Michigan. Of this Win<a eet chell was appointed director, pans his first Report Michigan, 1859of Progress—an octavo volume of 309 pages—in 1861.
In this report he called attention to the futility of efforts then being made to produce salt in the vicinity of Grand Rapids, and fully anticipated the development of the same industry in the Saginaw Valley, his explorations enabling him to locate the salt beds at a depth of 650 feet. Attention was given, also, to the occurrence of gypsum, coal, iron, and other economic products and to the geographical distribution of rocks belonging to the various formations throughout the State.
The so-called Marshall sandstone (Lower Carboniferous) he regarded on paleontological grounds as lying above the Hamilton group. He found evidence which led him to conclude that the Ohio and Michigan coal basins were never continuous, as had been heretofore asserted, and, indeed, that the geological column in the latter State had been built up quite distinct and independently from that in adjacent regions. He could find no parallelism between the Carboniferous limestones and those lying farther to the west, and all the evidence indicated to him that these deposits were laid down in an isolated basin cut off from that of Ohio to the south throughout the entire period from the Helderberg to that of the drift. In consequence of the outbreak of the civil war no appropriations were made for the continuation of the survey after 1861.
Winchell was born inthe town of Northeast, Dutchess County, New York, in 1824, and graduated at Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut, in 1847. His scientific tendencies are said to have mani-
fested themselves at a very early age, although he Sketch of Winchell. showed no marked preference for any branch of study,
unless it was toward mathematics, in which pursuit he seems to have been little shortof precocious. Immediately after graduating he entered upon a career of teaching and lecturing, which kept him prominently before the public for over forty years.
His first public geological lectures were given at Pennington Seminary in 1849. In 1850 he assumed charge of anacademy at Newbern, Alabama, but finding the conditions were not what he had been led to expect, he resigned, and in the spring of 1851 opened the Mesopotamia Female Seminary at Eutaw, inthe same State. Finding, however, that he was illy adapted to the successful management of a Southern female institution, he gave up this position to accept the presidency of the Masonic University at Selma, Alabama. While engaged in the work of presenting the claims of this university before the people in the southern part of the State, he made extensive geological tours throughout the region and brought together large collections in natural history. In November, 1853, he was elected to the chair of physics

<<<Page: 574>>>

and civil engineering in the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, and entered upon bis duties in January, 1554.
In 1859 he was commissioned by Governor Moses Wisner, of Michigan, as State geologist, as above noted, holding the position for two years, when the survey was abolished through failure on the part of the legislature to make proper provisions for its continuance. He issued while holding this office one Report of Progress, an octavo volume of 339 pages, published in August, 1861. In 1869 the survey was reorganized and Winchell again appointed director, he assuming for himself the personal investigation of thelower peninsula. His report, a small octavo volume of 64 pages, appeared in 1871, the previous report on the Grand Traverse region, a work of 97 octavo pages, haying appeared in 1866.
Owing to hostility over the management of the survey, which had been aroused in the legislature by personal enemies of Winchell, it appeared likely that the appropriations for carrying on the survey would fail. Hence he resigned the position in 1871.
In 1873 Winchell resigned also his professorship at the University of Michigan, accepting the position of chancellor of Syracuse University, which he held, however, only until June, 1875. In this latter year he was offered the professorship of geology, zoology, and botany in Vanderbilt University, at Nashville, Tennessee, but did not see fit to accept, although he did subsequently fill a three months’ engagement there. In May, 1878, he took final leave of the university, and the chair was abolished, owing to some foolish differences of opinion that had arisen between himself and Bishop McTyeire, who took exception to Winchell’s stand in reference to pre-Adamites and evolution.
In June, 1879, Winchell was again called to Ann Arbor, -being offered the chair of geology and paleontology in the State University. This position he accepted and continued to hold until the time of his death. In March, 1887, he was offered the position of State geologist of Arkansas, but refused.
Winchell’s work as a geologist, as may be readily imagined from this sketch, was of a more or less fragmentary nature, and if is as a teacher, public lecturer, and writer on scientific subjects that he is best known. The advanced stand which he took regarding: evolution brought him in conflict with the religious element, particularly at Vanderbilt University, as already referred to.
Winchell was for a time connected with the Minnesota geological survey. He was one of the original promoters of the American Geologist and the Geological Society of America. As stated by his biographer:
His largest educational field, however, was the public platform. Here he was
under no constraint by reason of youthful auditors. No limits were set to his rhapsodic scientific eloquence; no courteous regard for the amenities of possible profes-

<<<Page: 575>>>

sorial etiquette hampered the free flow of his criticism, or the exultant prophecy of the betterments of the future. * * * Himself a working geologist in the field, he was well acquainted with geological methods. A teaching geologist in the university, he was skillful in imparting his own knowledge and in training others to habits of observation and investigation.
Asa writer of books Winchell will be remembered for his Sketches of Creation, 1870; the Doctrine of Evolution, 1874; Pre-Adamites, 1880; Sparks from a Geologist’s Hammer, 1881; World Life, 1883, and his text-book, Elements of Geology, 1886. Of these his work on World Life is undoubtedly the one showing the greatest amount of research and thought, and was at that time probably the only one in the English language covering in a systematic manner the entire field of world history.
In 1859 D. D. Owen had, for the second time, accepted an appointment as State geologist of Indiana, but with the stipulation that, until his surveys in Arkansas and Kentucky, upon which he was then engaged, Sectibo exe ere completed, most of the field work should be pereeorenin formed by his brother Richard. Owing, however, to
Doctor Owen’s death in 1860, the work fell wholly upon the brother, who succeeded him in the office of State geologist.
The results of the survey are comprised in an octavo volume of 364 pages, issued in 1862. Like other of this author’s writings, it is prolix and uninteresting, differing in this respect ina marked degree from those of David Dale. ;
The importance of fossils was recognized, and it was set down as an ‘**unquestioned truth that a certain vertical range or ascertained thickness of fossiliferous rock is characterized by the organic remains of plants and animals, differing more or less from the plants and animals in the rocks above as well as those in the rocks below the given layers or strata.” The rocks of the State were all classified under: (1) Lower Silurian; (2) Upper Silurian; (3) Devonian; (4) Subcarboniferous; (5) Coal Measures, and (6) the Drift or Quaternary. Some 25 pages were given up to call analyses by Robert Peter, and 70 to a report on the Distribution of the Geological Strata in the Coal Measures of the State, by Leo Lesquereux
No maps or sections accompanied the report, which, as a whole, is singularly lacking in interesting or instructive matter. J. Lesley served as topographer.
With the outbreak of the civil war Owen resigned to take command of a company of volunteers, and this, the third attempt at a geological survey of Indiana, came to an end.
Prevailing ideas regarding conditions of sedimentation have been frequently referred to in these pages, but with more particular reference to the position of the sea floor— whether inclined or horizontal—upon which the sedimentary beds were deposited. A new phase of the question was brought to light during a discussion between W. B. Rogers and

<<<Page: 576>>>

Louis Agassiz at the meeting of the Boston Society of Natural History, March 21, 1860.
Rogers argued that the strata between Lake Ontario and the Pennsylvania coal region were deposited on gradually subsiding sea bot-
Idéas of Rogers and tOMS. On this supposition only could he account for
Agassiz on Aaya ee Ee ty y = ei AS pa Sipadecend the relative position of the beds and their very great Deposition, 1800. thickness. Had they been formed as argued by some
on a gradually rising sea bottom, the older deposits would crop out at the higher levels and the successively later ones at lower levels. Agassiz, on the other hand, maintained that there was no subsidence during the deposition of the New York strata, and that the facts indi‘ated just the reverse, i. e., an upheaval. During the upheaval, he argued, the level of the sea might be actually less, from the contraction of the earth while cooling, but in consequence of this contraction the ocean would always remain at a certain depth, sufficient for the deposition of the thousands of feet of strata. The study of the fossils he argued was also opposed to the theory of subsidence and denudation, since those of the Primary were never found carried into the Secondary beds.
At the April + meeting the discussion was resumed, when Rogers took the ground that an assumption of an upward movement of the sea bottom carried with it the admission of an original depth so enormous as to be incompatible with the accumulation of the material of the earlier strata, unless, indeed, the strata were supposed to be formed exclusively within a moderate distance of the shore.
We might imagine a series of strata to be successively laid down in a gentle slope approximately parallel to that of the ancient sea bottom, each terminating against this surface without being continued into the profounder depths beyond, and we might suppose the floor to be rising in the region of this accumulation at such a rate as to bring successive tracts, farther and farther from the ancient shore line, within limits of depth admitting of mechanical and organic deposition; but in such cireumstances of formation these earlier strata, instead of extending, as they are believed to do, almost continuously over the whole ocean floor, would be seen to determinate at no great distance from the original shore line, but abutting against the bottom at the places where the depth had set a limit to their accumulation.
No hypothesis of a secular rising of the sea bottom, he therefore argued, could explain the formation of the Appalachian Paleozoic deposit. They indicated, rather, a long period of subsidence of the ocean floor, varied by many and long pauses of upward oscillations.
Agassiz, in reply, admitted the probable shallowness of the ocean in which the strata were deposited, and that during a local upheaval of the shore, the whole sea bottom was probably subsiding, the subsidence being due to shrinkage, caused by the cooling of the earth’s crust. This view was accepted by Rogers as amounting to a virtual disclaiming of the theory as advanced.
The removal of B. F. Shumard as State geologist of Texas in 1860, as noted on page 487, was immediately followed by the appointment of

<<<Page: 577>>>

his successor, Dr. Francis Moore, **an honorable and cultured gentleSe cg ae of much executive ability,” a one-time newspaper Buckley in Texas, editor, but, so far as can be learned, never a geologist.” 1860-1864. : .
In April, 1861, the survey was, however, suspended by an act of the legislature, and both Shumard and Moore requested to report on what had been accomplished. With this request neither party complied, Shumard going immediately to St. Louis, where he died in 1869, and Doctor Moore leaving for the north on the outbreak of the civil war, where he, too, died in 1864:
The notes of these short-lived organizations seem to have, in part at least, passed into the hands of S. B. Buckley, a botanical collector under the Shumard régime, who returned to Austin after the close of the war and succeeded in having himself appointed State geologist. In this capacity he issued one report, bearing date of 1866, and comprising some 80 octavo pages, dealing with generalities and matters pertaining to the agricultural resources of the State, but containing little or nothing of geological value and but few references to what had been done by his predecessors. Buckley’s period of rule was short, coming to an end in L867.
No attempt at resuscitation was made until L870, when the governor, under authority from the legislature, appointed John W. Glenn State geologist. Glenn, however, found the position uncongenial and
J.W. Glenn resigned the following year, to be succeeded in L874 appointed State : alelew yay 10 The Is . " > 1ce Geologist of Texas, PY Buckley once more. The latter held the office but 1870.
two years, when the governor, becoming convinced (truthfully, it is to be feared) that the survey promised to be of no practical benefit to the State, vetoed the bill appropriating moneys for its continuation.
During this second term of office Buckley issued two reports, under dates of 1874 and 1876, respectively, comprising altogether some 220 pages. The first contained a brief history of the past surveys of the State and a somewhat partisan account of an unhappy disagreement
@ Austin, November 12, 1860.
My pear M.: Your kind letter reached Austin during my absence from home, and I thank you for your friendly words. I returned yesterday from the Indian country, and only then found I had been superseded by Doctor Moore in the office I held. Houston had not even intimated to me that he intended my removal. So far as I can learn, the action of the governor has caused universal dissatisfaction. I am not even permitted to make out my own reports of more than two years’ hard labor. 1 understand that my removal has been brought about mainly through testimonials furnished Moore by H. and H.
If I had had timely notice, so that I could have written my report, I should not have cared so much, but to be deprived of that privilege is doing me great injustice.
I have not made any plans for the future. When I havea little more leisure | will write you again, and then may furnish you with some geology that may interest you.
In haste, your friend, B. F. SHumarp.

<<<Page: 578>>>

which existed between Shumard and himself. Both the statements made and the manner in which they are presented are such as to pre}judice the unbiased reader against Mr. Buckley, and this in particular when one reflects that there was no apparent occasion for the publicatron in an official report of matters of this nature. Buckley was replied to vigorously by A. R. Roessler, who had also been one of Shumard’s assistants.
The main portion of both reports was given up to a discussion of economic problems, and little that was new geologically appeared. He noted the eruptive nature of Pilot Knob, but was unable to determine whether the period of eruption antedated the Cretaceous or not. Much space was devoted to a discussion of soils and crops, together with notes on the fauna and flora.
In his report on the geology of Massachusetts (1833), and again in 1835 and 1841, Dr. Edward Hitchcock called attention to the flattening and distortion of pebbles ina conglomerate near Newport, Rhode Island, ities ieee s ie ore Pee tha ee the pacubiad SEC LGOREE Ean he subject, particularly in the light of subsequent Hele le discoveries, seems to have grown upon him, and in a paper in the American Journal of Science for 1861, and in his reports ou the geology of Vermont for that same year, the ground is gone over in great detail and his gradually expanding views fully elaborated.
In his report of 1833 the conglomerates were described as composed of elongated rounded nodules of quartz rock passing into mica slate, with a cement of talcose slate, all with their longest diameters uniformly parallel, the entire mass, pebbles and all, being divided by fissures as perfect as if ‘‘cut through by the sword of some Titan.” Later, while engaged in the work of the Vermont survey, he found analogous conglomerates along nearly the whole western side of the Green Mountains, and in 1859, in company with his son, C. H. Hitchcock, he again visited the Newport locality in search of facts to aid him in solving the Vermont probtem. His results were given before the American Association for the Advancement of Science that same year, and the subject again brought before the Association by C. H. Hitchcock in 1860.
The facts brought out and presented showed the pebbles to be (1) much elongated in the direction of the strike of the beds; (2) that, while flattened, this feature was not so striking as their elongation; (3) that they were often indented by one being pressed into another; (4) that they were often bent, sometimes in two directions; and (5) that they were cut across by parallel joints, or fissures, at tatervals of from a few inches to many feet. These facts led him to conclude that (1) the rock had once been a conglomerate of the usual character, and had undergone a metamorphosis whereby the cementing material had become crystalline and schistose and the pebbles elongated, and

<<<Page: 579>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1860—1869. bt
(2) the pebbles themselves had been in a more or less plastic state; otherwise any attempt at change in form would result only in fracture and comminution. The clean manner in which the pebbles were cut by joints was thought also to indicate a condition of plasticity. The flattening and distorting force was thought to have operated laterally, and the jointing regarded as due to some polarizing force acting upon soft materials, a simple inspection of the rock in place being sufficient to satisfy anyone that no mechanical agency would alone be sufficient to produce the phenomena. Applying the same method of reasoning to the conglomerates of Vermont, he came to the conclusion that these, too, had undergone metamorphism, giving rise to schists and gneiss, and that, indeed, granites and syenites might result from the metamorphism of stratified rocks. The chemical details as worked ‘out would naturally not hold in their entirety to-day, and of course the idea of a polarizing force would be no longer seriously considered; but the fact remains that this paper, as a whole, marks a long stride in advance along the line of metamorphism, and for its time was comparable in its importance with the later work of Lehmann on the crystalline schists of Saxony.
By an act of the legislature approved March 16, 1861, Ezekiel Holmes, of Winthrop, Maine, was commissioned, under the direction of the board of agriculture, to Reaeeiictécy make a scientific survey of Survey of Maine, the State. (©. H. Hitch1861-62.
cock, then of Amherst, Massachusetts, and a son of Dr. Edward Hitehcock, was commissioned geologist, while George L. Goodale served as botanist and chemist, C. Houghton as mineralogist, A. 5. Packard, jr., as entomologist, and C. B. Fuller as marine zoologist. Others, including G. L. Vose and Dr. N. T. True, rendered assistance at various times.
Two brief seasons were devoted to field work, the results of which appeared in the reports of the board of agriculture for 1861-62, the strictly geological portions being limited to some six hundred and odd pages. The work done under these conditions was necessarily somewhat at need Northern Maine was atl) practically a wilderness;
Fie. 73.,—Charles Henry Hitchcock.
a The subject was in 1868 again taken up he Pr of. G. L. Vose, w Hone eouasenE: based on a study of conglomerates in the vicinity of the Rangeley Lakes, were largely confirmatory of those of the Hitchcocks. He was not, however, disposed to regard the pebbles as having been in a plastic state, but contended that under the forces that had there prevailed rigid pebbles might be bent and flattened in the manner described.

<<<Page: 580>>>

there were no maps and absolutely no railroads. A geological map in black and white was, however, prepared of the region north of Calais and the 45th parallel, and also one of the eastern portion of the State included between St. George and Belfast.
The fossiliferous rocks were noted as mostly Paleozoic and probably all lying below the Carboniferous series. The red sandstone of Perry, the problematic horizon of which had been discussed by Jackson and others, as previously noted in these pages, was regarded as ‘‘indisputably Devonian,” this statement being based upon expressed opinions of Jackson, Rogers, Newberry, and Dawson. It was noted that the fossiliferous marine clays, which were regarded as of the same age as the similar deposits along the St. Lawrence and the Champlain valleys and referable to the Terrace period, sometimes underlay a coarse deposit referable to the unmodified drift. Without committing himself definitely on this point, Hitchcock suggested the possibility, therefore, of a recurrence of the drift agencies—that is, a period of second drift. This, so far as the present writer has information, is the first suggestion by an American of such a possibility. It seems, however, to have been quite lost sight of. (See also remarks of Edward Hitchcock, p. 462.)
The drift period itself, according to Hitchcock’s view, was inaugurated by depression of this portion of the continent amounting to at least 5,000 feet below that of to-day. Subsequently the continent rose again gradually to its present altitude. It was during this period of depression and elevation that the drift deposits were formed through the conjoined agency of icebergs and glaciers. The various forms of modified drift he thought to have been produced largely by the aid of rivers and moving currents of water. These views were those very generally held at that date, though, naturally, they have been somewhat modified since.
The quartz rock in the vicinity of Rockland, Thomaston, and Camden was regarded as belonging to the Taconic period of Emmons, and the associated limestones were looked upon as contemporaneous with the Stockbridge limestones of Emmons or, what is the same thing, the Kolian limestones of the elder Hitchcock.
Dr. J. S. Newberry, in Notes on the Surface Geology of the Basin of the Great Lakes, after a review of the surface conditions as he saw them, came to the conclusion that at a period corresponding in cli-
mate, if not in time, with the Glacial epoch of the Old Me iacigtion ‘ise2, YWorld, the lake region in common with all the north-
ern portion of the American Continent was raised several thousand feet above the level of the sea. This was the ‘‘glacial period,” during which the surface of the country was planed down and the deep fiords along the Atlantic coast formed. This was followed by a period of depression, when all the basin of the Great

<<<Page: 581>>>

AMERICAN’ GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1860-1869. eos
Lakes was flooded with fresh water, forming a vast inland sea, in which the laminated blue clays, the ‘‘oldest of our drift deposits,” were precipitated. Subsequent to this deposit of blue clays ‘tan immense quantity of gravel and bowlders was transported from the region north of the Great Lakes and scattered over a wide area south of them.” This was due to floating ice and icebergs. The lake ridges (ancient beaches), described by Whittlesey, Newberry regarded as evidence that the water of the lakes remained for considerable intervals much higher than at present. ‘These are practically the same views announced before the New York Lyceum in 1870 (p. 545).
In May, 1862, J. P. Lesley read a paper before the American Philosophical Society describing the structure of the Allegheny Mountains, in which he assumed that the rocks of the Blue Ridge Range, on the
eastern side of the valley, were a prolongation of the Stature eee ©6Green Mountains of Vermont, and consisted, therefore,
of the Quebec group, or Taconic System. In this he followed the Rogers Brothers, as he acknowledged. He accounted for the change in the drainage, as exhibited by the New River, which breaks into the Appalachians, as due to a structural change in the geology, most of the mountain valleys north of this being unbroken anticlines and synclines, while most of those south of it are monoclines bounded by immense faults or downthrows. The Appalachians of southern Virginia and eastern Tennessee are grouped in pairs by faults, the fracturing being in parallel strips from 5 to 6 miles wide, each strip being tilted easterly so that the upper edge of one strip, with its Carboniferous rocks, abuts against the bottom or Lower Silurian edge of the strip next to it. The Paleozoic zone, therefore, included between the Great Valley and the backbone escarpment, is occupied by as many pairs of parallel mountains as there are parallel faults, and as these faults lie in straight lines at nearly equal distances from one another the mountain ranges run with great uniformity side by side for 100 or 200 miles until cut off by cross faults, or by change in the courses of the principal faults.
In a paper before the SHOE Philosophical Society the year fol-
lowing on a ‘‘remarkable coal mine or asphalt vein in see ereerey Ongplitt’ the Coal Measures of Wood County, (West) Virginia,”
Lesley was led into a discussion of uplift and erosion, and expressed sundry ideas worthy of note.
Assuming that the valley cutting through this mine was one of erosion and had been carved out since the vein was filled, Lesley speculated on the time and causes of erosion and incidentally on the character of the original uplift. He rejected the idea of cataclysmic erosion dating back to the time of the uplift, as he did also that of the secularists, who regard the present face of the country as but the latest phase of
NAT Mus 1904——33

<<<Page: 582>>>

an infinite series of oceanic degradations, beginning with the uplift and still in progress. Instead, he adopted the supposition of a succession of denuding actions of unknown force and indefinite number. ‘A homogeneous element with sufficient force, acting either by one or by repeated blows,” would bring about the present condition of affairs.
No one will deny that water, if obtained in sufficient quantity at a sufficient velocity, would be such an agent. In the acknowledged instability of the crust of the earth, in its acknowledged less stability in ancient times than now, we find the possibility, nay, we feel the certainty, that the oceans have at times been launched across the continents, and we need nothing more to satisfy all the conditions for an explanation of Appalachian topography.
One great obstacle, Lesley thought, in the way of topographical science among geologists— has been an innocent ignorance of the titanic postulates upon the ground, and therefore an inability to reconstruct in imagination the awful vaults of rock which have been removed from over at least 50,000 square miles of the surface of the United States merely along the one belt of the Appalachian Mountains, between the coal area and the Blue Ridge range.
However this may have been, Lesley himself could not be accused — of any such innocent ignorance and consequent impotency of imagination. Thus, when speculating on the character of the folds of the . Appalachians, as controlled by the roughness of the old surface of the more or less disturbed and eroded sedimentaries and the thinness of the newer formations, whereby there was a tendency for more or less hitch and catch below and crack and shove above, he showed that such features were here reduced to a minimum, and hence probably the high anticlines were unbroken at the crest.
Asa whole, the plicating energy must have acted with a steady evenness of thrust, which carried up the anticlinal waves of the crust unbroken, and in some cases to a height of between 5 and 10 miles above the present surface level.
Truly a strange admixture of views. As a modern catastrophist he was equaled only by Clarence King.
It was the opinion of Rogers, it will be remembered, that the great amount of erosion which had manifestly taken place in the Pennsylvania Appalachians was cataclysmic, the consequence of a great rush of waters or body of water over the face of the continent at the time when the coal era was about to be terminated by the upheaval of the whole Appalachian belt of earth crust, when it was thrown into waves or folds. Lesley at first accepted this view and even as late as 1864 confessed himself as not entirely convinced that such a cataclysm was not necessary in order ‘‘to explain the earlier and perhaps the larger part of the whole phenomenon.” He did not, however, accept Rogers’s ‘pulsating planetary lava-nucleus” theory to account for the primary origin of the range, but felt that the force of lateral thrust caused by shrinkage from a cooling globe better accounted for the surface conyolutions as he saw them.

<<<Page: 583>>>



<<<Page: 584>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill.
‘IoMoig Aiud py wR
ir) 3
‘O98 ‘VINHOSITVD SO ASAYNS WVOIDNO1035 3HL 3O SYadWaIN
) UBULYOH “Wf SopeyO ‘AouIyM IU SIM SoUBE “OUINGYSW URITy Ut
M ‘[[MoeAW Josey O

<<<Page: 585>>>

In 1860 J. D. Whitney was appointed State geologist of California and served until 1874, when the survey was discontinued. According to the original act, he was required to make an accurate and complete <p geological survey of the State and to furnish a report Survey of California, containing a full scientific description of its rocks, fos1860-1869. : E ‘ Sie :
sils, soils, and minerals, and of its botanical and zoological productions. W. H. Brewer was principal assistant in botany and agricultural geology, William Ashburner in mining, and W. M. Gabb, paleontologist. Clarence King also rendered assistance in a volunteer capacity.
The results of this survey are embodied in three volumes on geology and paleontology published by the State and two volumes on the auriferous gravels, published by the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard after Whitney’s retirement. It was announced in the statement of progress for 1872-73 that a geological map of the whole State had been colored, but it seems never to have been published.
The first volume of Whitney’s report of progress and a synopsis of field work from 1860 to 1864 appeared in 1865. This comprised a small quarto volume of 498 pages. The volume contained a great amount of descriptive matter relating to the areal geology of various parts of the State, particularly of the Coast Ranges and Sierra Nevada, with a chapter on the mining regions.
Whitney decided, from the discovery of a single shell in the rocks of Alcatraz Island, that the so-called San Francisco sandstone was of undoubted Cretaceous age. The serpentines of Mount Diablo and the San Francisco peninsula he considered as metamorphic sediments (sandstone)—a mistake which was later repeated by Becker in his volume on the quicksilver deposits of the Pacific slope.
Whitney was decidedly pessimistic regarding the probability of the occurrence of petroleum on the Pacific coast, and unhesitatingly discouraged the promoting of enterprises of this nature. With reference to the region south of the Bay of Monterey, he wrote:
As the bituminous shales are everywhere turned up on edge and have no cover of impervious rock, the inference is unavoidable that flowing wells, or at least those delivering any considerable quantity of liquid petroleum, can not be expected to be got by boring to any depth. The probabilities, at least, are against it.
When one reflects that the output of the California fields in 1899 amounted to 2,677,875 barrels, he is led to question the infallibility of Whitney’s judgment in these matters.
Whitney considered all those chains or ranges of mountains in California to belong to the Coast Ranges which had been uplifted since the deposition of the Cretaceous formation; those which were elevated before the Cretaceous as belonging to the Sierra Nevada. The slates of the western slope in Mariposa County were regarded as of Jurassic age, and the Calcareous slates of Plumas County as belonging to the

<<<Page: 586>>>

Triassic. The limestones in the Gray Mountains had. been referred by
Doctor Trask to the Carboniferous formation. With this reference Whitney agreed.
The peculiar dome-shaped concentric structure of the granite in the Sierras was dwelt upon with considerable detail, and the curved structure of the sheets regarded as having been produced by the contraction of the material while cooling or solidifying. The Yosemite Valley itself he thought to be due to a differential movement, the half dome seeming beyond a doubt to have been split asunder in the middle, one-half having gone down in what he calls ‘* the wreck of
matter and the crush of worlds.” In other words, he regarded the
valley as due to the downward drop of an enormous fault block.¢
The first volume of the paleontological reports appeared in 1864. This comprised 243 pages, with 32 full-page plates of fossils, the Carboniferous and Jurassic being described by F. B. Meek, and the Cretaceous and Triassic by W. M. Gabb. Concerning the work thus far done, Whitney wrote: ? .
Perhaps the most striking result of the survey is the proof we have obtained of the immense development of rocks, equivalent in age to the upper Trias of the Alps, and paleontologically closely allied to the limestones of Hallstadt and Aussee, and the St. Cassian beds, that extremely important and highly fossilliferous division of the Alpine Trias.
Further on he says:
Enough (fossils), however, have been found to justify the assertion that the sedimentary portion of the great metalliferous belt of the Pacific coast of North America is chiefly made up of rocks of Jurassic and Triassic age. * * * While we are fully justified in saying that a large portion of the auriferous rocks of California consist of metamorphic Triassic and Jurassic strata, we have not a particle of evidence to uphold the theory * * * that all or even a portion are older than the Carboniferous. * * * Weareable tostate * * * that this metal (gold) occurs in no inconsiderable quantity in metamorphic rocks belonging as high up in series as the Cretaceous. (P. 261.)
Subsequent to this, apparently’ W. P. Blake, as geologist of the California State Board of Agriculture, made a claim to having, in 1863, found on the American River a fossil ammonite, which he regarded as establishing the secondary age of the gold-bearing strata. It was claimed by Prof. W. H. Brewer, however, that Blake did not know for a certainty if the specimen was found in place or, indeed, if it were an ammonite or ceratite; also that the fossils were not found so early as the date claimed by Blake (1863). Brewer is very emphatic in his statements to the effect that Whitney was the first to announce
«Later investigators have been inclined to regard the valley as due merely to river erosion, facilitated by the vertical jointing of the rocks. (See H. W. Turner, Proc. California Academy of Sciences, Geology, I, No. 9, 1900.)
>» American Journal of Science, X XX VIII, November, 1864, pp. 256-264.
«See American Journal of Science, XLII, 1886, p. 114,

<<<Page: 587>>>

2 Paki

<<<Page: 588>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill.

<<<Page: 589>>>

the Jura-Trias age of these rocks, and the extracts from the published reports seem to bear him out.
The second volume of the paleontological reports, as published in 1869, comprised 299 pages, with 36 full-page plates, and was given up wholly to descriptions of Tertiary and Cretaceous fossils by Gabb. In his introductory note Whitney reiterated his statement above quoted regarding the age of the gold-bearing rocks and the absence of rocks older than Carboniferous, not merely in the State, but west of the one hundred and sixteenth meridian.
As previously noted (p. 385), Logan, during his period of service as provincial geologist, submitted sixteen reports dealing mainly with stratigraphic and economic subjects. In 1863 he brought forward a
long promised volume—The Geology of Canada—a pean sea | large octavo, of 983 pages, accompanied by an atlas
giving a colored geological map and sections.
Logan was assisted during the early part of his work by Alexander Murray and James Richardson, geologists; E. Billings, paleontologist, and T. Sterry Hunt, chemist. Later Robert: Bell, now (1904) acting director, and others of less prominence, were added to the force. A portion of the paleontology was assigned to James Hall, and the nomenclature adopted was essentially that of the New York survey.
The map accompanying the volume was beautifully executed in colors, and comprised all of the provinces southeast of the St. Lawrence as well as a narrow belt composed mainly of Laurentian, extending from Labrador southwesterly to the Great Lakes, and thence northwesterly to the ninety-sixth meridian. It included a considerable portion of the United States, data for which were supplied by Hall and other American geologists.
Overlying the graptolitic shales of the Utica and Hudson River formations in the vicinity of Quebec, Logan found a conformable series of sandstones, shales, and conglomerate limestones, which he considered, in spite of their position, as older than the Hudson River group formation and to which he applied, from their geographical position, the name of the Quebec group. This was again subdivided into an underlying green sandstone series called the Sillery formation, and an overlying Levis formation. These were supposed by both Logan and Billings to be mainly contemporaneous with the Calciferous and Chazy groups of the New York geologists, but more recent investigations by Selwyn and Ellis have shown that while the Levis beds are Calciferous in the lower parts, the Sillery is probably all Cambrian (Dana), the Quebec, as a whole, being a northern continuation of the Taconic series. By a singular error, to which Marcou was prompt to call attention, this Quebec group on the map referred

<<<Page: 590>>>

to above was made to include the Chazy and Calciferous formetions below the Trenton. /
It is worthy of note that, while Logan’s successors have been invariably opposed to the idea of the origin of the drift and rock striations through a glacial ice sheet, Logan evidently committed himself to this theory. Concerning the origin of the lake basins of western Canada he writes:
These great lake basins are depressions, not of geological structure, but of denudation, and the grooves on the surface rocks, which descend under their waters, appear to point to glacial action as one of the great causes which have produced these depressions.
Again, in a footnote on the same page, he quoted, with evident approval, the following:
This hypothesis (i. e., the origin of the lake basins) points to a glacial period when the whole region was elevated far above its present level, and when the Laurentides, the Adirondacks, and the Green Mountains were lofty Alpine ranges, covered with perpetual snow from which great frozen rivers or glaciers extended over the plains below, producing by their moyements the glacial drift and scooping out the river valleys and the basins of the lakes.
It was in this same report that Logan first noted the occurrence of a supposed fossil in the Laurentian of Canada, describing under the name of Stromatopora rugosa an aggregate of crystalline pyroxene and calcite found by Mr. John Mullen in one of the bands of limestone at the Grand Calumet. This was the so-called Eozoon of Dawson, referred to elsewhere.
Logan, for his time, possessed a very profound insight into petroeraphical problems, though he naturally regarded as traces of an original bedding what is now known to be, in part, at least, foliation due to dynamic causes. Thus, in his reports for 1853-1856, he wrote concerning the rocks of the Laurentian system:
They are the most ancient yet known on the continent of America, and are supposed to be equivalent to the iron-bearing series of Scandinavia. Stretching on the north side of the St. Lawrence from Labrador to Lake Superior, they occupy by far the larger share of Canada, and they have been described in former reports as sedi-
mentary deposits in an altered condition, consisting of gneiss interstratified with important bands of crystalline limestone (p. 7).
And again:
The Laurentian series are altered sedimentary rocks.
The geology of the islands of Anticosti, Mingan, and the Magdalen River region was assigned by Logan to James Richardson, who made his report in 1857. The fossils collected were worked up by Billings, who considered the rocks of the Anticosti group to consist of beds of passage from the Lower to the Upper Silurian and synchronous with the Oneida conglomerate, the Medina sandstone, and the Clinton

<<<Page: 591>>>

group of the New York survey, and with the Caradoe formation of England. ¢
The possibility that the Laurentian system might not be a single unit was here again recognized by Logan in a supplementary note:
If, onexploration to the eastward of the Trembling Mountain, it should be further ascertained that the two inferior limestone bands of the Greenville series disappear on reaching the margin of the anorthosite, it may be considered as conclusive evidence of the existence in the Laurentian system of two immense sedimentary formations, the one superimposed unconformably on the other, with probably a great difference in time between them; and it will be an interesting subject of inquiry whether the intrusive rocks which have been found intersecting the lower division give any clue to events which may have happened in the interval.
Logan was born of Scottish parentage at Montreal in 1798, but his ‘father shortly returning to Scotland, he received his early training, which was classical, in the High School and University of Edinburgh.
He showed no disposition toward scientific pursuits Sketch of Logan. until chance led him to the keeping of accounts in
the establishment of an uncle, who was interested in mining and copper smelting operations in Wales. Here he was attracted by the phenomena of the coal seams and devoted a large share of his spare time to their study.
In 1838 the death of his uncle caused him to give up his position in Wales, and in 1840 he returned to Canada. His first geological paper was on the character of the beds of clay immediately below the coal seams of South Wales. This was communicated to the Geological Society of London in 1840. In this he announced _ the invariable presence under the coal seams of beds of fire clay carrying Stigmaria. This he regarded as proving the origin of coal through plant growth in place—an opinion which was very generally accepted at that time.
When Logan began his geological work in Canada a large portion of the country was a wilderness, without roads, and there were no maps. Of the topography of the Gaspé district it is written:
Little was known of the region beside the coast line; of the geology, practically nothing. Settlements were few, confined almost exclusively to the coast, and made up chiefly of fishermen. There were no roads through the interior, most of which was, and indeed still is, a wilderness, inhabited by bears and other wild beasts, or at best only penetrated in certain regions by a few Indians or lumbermen. The courses of most of the streams were unknown and the mountains untraversed.
Living the life of a savage, sleeping on the beach in a blanket sack, with my feet to the fire, seldom taking my clothes off, eating salt pork and ship’s biscuit, occasionally tormented by mosquitoes.
«Prof. N. 8. Shaler, in a paper before the Boston Society of Natural History, December 18, 1861, antagonized that view and argued that from the base of the level of the Canadian channel to the summit at the southwestern point of the island the beds were entirely Upper Silurian and synchronous with the Clinton and Niagara, of New York and elsewhere, though the fossils themselves might not be absolutely identified.

<<<Page: 592>>>

Such is the record Logan has left us of his Gaspé experience. From early dawn to dusk he paced or paddled, and yet his work was not finished, for while his Indians—often his sole companions—smoked their pipes around the evening fire he wrote his notes and platted the day’s measurements.
Logan is represented to us as strong in body, of active mind, industrious, and doggedly persevering, painstaking, a lover of truth, generous, possessed of the keenest knowledge of human nature, sound of judgment, but always cautious in expressing an opinion.
During his twenty-seven years of office, sixteen reports were submitted, the first, that for the year 1843, appearing in the form of a pamphlet of 159 octavo pages. It contained remarks on the mode of making a geological survey and a short preliminary report containing general observations on the geology of the provinces, and adjacent portions of the United States, together with the Joggins section already mentioned.
Assisted by Mr. Alexander Murray, and later by the chemist, T. Sterry Hunt, Logan continued his work until 1869, when he resigned to be succeeded by Mr. Selwyn. His reports cover the geology of Ottawa, the Gaspé peninsula, the economic geology of the Lake Superior region, the geology of lower Canada with especial reference to the eastern townships, the region along the north coast of Lake Huron, the gold-bearing fields of the Chaudiére region, and the western peninsula, also the region between the Ottawa, the St. Lawrence, and the Rideau. His ‘most important publication was his geology of Canada, noticed above. His geological map, bearing date of 1866 and measuring 8 by 34 feet, is said to have been the largest and most comprehensive that had appeared up to that time. ;
Under the directorship of Logan, Alexander Murray, assisted by James P. Howley, began work on the geology of Newfoundland in 1864, making a first brief report in May, 1866. The survey was continued until 1880, and a reprint of all the reports puban octavo volume of 536 pages
Fic. 74.—Thomas Sterry Hunt.
Work of Murray . é ; and Howley in lished in book form Newfoundland, 1864. , a
in 1881.
The work as a whole consisted mainly of details of ‘structure of the regions immediately along the coast, with notes on the mines. The various subdivisions of the formations adopted were naturally those of the Canadian survey, which were based to a considerable extent upon those of the New York survey.

<<<Page: 593>>>

Naturally, Murray’s observations were limited mainly to a comparatively narrow belt along the coast. With the exception of the Glacial and post-Glacial material, no formations were found of later date than the Carboniferous. The succession of the Lower Silurian formations of the island from above downward he gave as follows: Sillery, Lauzon, Levis, Upper Calciferous, Lower Calciferous, Upper Potsdam, Lower Potsdam, and St. John’s Group. The St. John’s Group is now recognized as Middle Cambrian (?), while his Lower Potsdam is Lower Cambrian.
Before the beginning of Murray’s work it had already been shown by Richardson, working under direction of Logan, that a trough of Lower Silurian rocks must underlie the northern part of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, gradually narrowing toward the Strait of Belle Isle, one side of the trough rising on the coast of Labrador, while the other formed the western shore of Newfoundland from Bonne Bay to Cape Norman. On each side of the Strait these rocks were found to rest on Laurentian gneiss, which was ascertained to extend from the neighborhood of Bonne Bay to within 12 or 15 miles of Hare Bay.
Murray’s investigations proved that the Laurentian rocks spread in breadth to the Atlantic coast of the great northern peninsula of the island, and that the base of the Lower Silurian strata, sweeping around the northern extremity of the gneiss, comes upon the coast near Canada Bay, and again strikes into the land at Coney Arm in White Bay, where the Lower Silurian are overlaid by Upper Silurian, followed by rocks of Devonian age. Farther to the southeast the Laurentian and Silurian series were found to be partially and unconformably covered by rocks of Carboniferous age.
The report was accompanied by a colored geological map on ten sheets, on a scale of 25 miles to the inch.
As already noted, the Canadian geologists, with the exception of Logan, have never taken kindly to the idea of a glacial ice sheet, but have sought to account for the distribution of the drift, erosion, and
allied or associated phenomena through other means. Giieticn iaeae” = Thus, J. W. Dawson, in his address before the Nat-
ural History Society of Montreal in 1864, took occasion to combat vigorously the idea, on the ground that ** it requires a series of suppositions unlikely in themselves and not warranted by facts;” that it seems physically impossible for a sheet of ice to move over an Dawson’s Address VCD surface, striating it in uniform directions over History Socletyar = Vast areas; that glaciers could never have transported Minn eceal ASCs the large bowlders and left them in the positions found, having no source of supply; that the peat deposits, fossils, etc., show that the sea at that period had much the same temperature as the present Arctic currents, and that the land was not covered by ice.

<<<Page: 594>>>

In describing the northeasterly and southwesterly and northwesterly and southeasterly directions of the rock striew, he announced that he had no hesitation in asserting that the force which produced the southwesterly strive was ‘‘from the ocean toward the interior, against the slope of the St. Lawrence valley,” and as he could not conceive of a glacier moving from the Atlantic up into the interior he considered this as at once disposing of the glacial theory. He conceived, rather, that a subsidence took place sufficient to convert all the plains of Canada, New York, and New England into sea. This, he felt, would determine the direction of the Arctic current which would move up this slope. He would account for the excavation of the basins of the Great Lakes in a similar way. Supposing the land submerged so that the Arctic current from the northeast should pour over the Laurentian rocks on the northern side of Lake Superior and Lake Huron, it would cut out the softer strata, forming the basins and drifting the material to the southwest.
The lower strata of this current would be directed through and between the Laurentide hills and the Adirondacks, and, flowing over the ridge of hard rock which connects them at the Thousand Isles, would cut out the basin of Lake Ontario and heap up at the same time the mass of bowlder clay intervening between Lake Ontario and Georgian Bay. Lake Erie, he thought, might have been cut by the flow of the upper layers of water over the middle Silurian escarpment, Lake Michigan being likewise due to this unequal erosion. The northwesterly and southeasterly striz he conceived were produced by a return of the northeast-southwest current, obstructions causing it to flow along the valleys of Lake Champlain, the Connecticut, and the low country between Lake Ontario and Lake Huron. He would not wholly exclude the action of glaciers, but thought such were limited to the mountain tops. Old sea beaches, he thought, had been mistaken for moraines, and he found evidences of ocean breakers almost to the summits of the White Mountains. Lake basins and fiords in the northern latitudes are all due to current and wave action, the cold Arctic currents being appealed to rather than the warm surface currents. He also felt sure that the numerous indentations of the coast of the United States were due to the action of waves rather than of ice.
In the autumn and winter of 1863-64 Raphael Pumpelly, of Rhode Island, was engaged by the Chinese Government to examine the coal fields west of Peking. Incidentally he made journeys in northern
China and Mongolia. Subsequently, in 1864-65, he eevee @ crossed into Siberia and journeyed overland to St. Petersburg. The results of his observations on the geology of the region were published in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 1866, forming a quarto pamphlet of 144 pages with 8

<<<Page: 595>>>

plates of sections, and a colored geological map, the latter confessedly hypothetical. This memoir, which antedated Richthofen’s great work on China by some years, gave to the world the first authentic account of the geology of the region.
He showed that in the region extending from the twentieth to a little beyond the fortieth parallel and from near the one hundredth to about the one hundred and twenty-second meridian the oldest sedimentary rocks were Devonian limestones, which prevailed in some cases to the enormous thickness of 11,600 feet. Overlying this, through the greater part of the area, were the Chinese Coal Measures (Mesozoic), interrupted by bands of granitic and metamorphic rock of undetermined age. In the extreme northern part of this region was a comparatively small area of basaltic and trachytic rocks. The region immediately south of Peking, comprised principally within the proyinces of Chih, Nganhwui, Kiangsu, and Shantung, was colored, as occupied by post-Tertiary materials, with smaller areas of the same age along the Yangtse-Kiang and Hoangho rivers in the provinces of Hupeh, Sz’chuen, and Shensi.
Considerable attention was given to the post-Tertiary ‘‘Terrace” deposit, or loam, which he found in the valley of every tributary of the Yang Ho, and probably also of the Sankang Ho. This, which has since become more generally known as the Chinese loess, was described in considerable detail as to modes of occurrence, physical properties, and geological distribution. The material he regarded as having been deposited in a chain of lakes extending from Yenkingchau north-northwest of Peking to near Ninghia, in Kansuh, a distance of nearly 500 miles, the lake basins themselves being formed by the dislocations which gave rise to the plateau wall to the north, and being filled by sediments brought by the Yellow River.
The fossil plants brought by Pumpelly from the coal-bearing rocks were studied by Newberry and identified as of Mesozoic age.
George H. Cook, who was assistant geologist of New Jersey under the Kitchell survey (suspended in 1856), was appointed State geologist with the reorganization of the same survey in 1863, and continued to Cees, 2 SeLYe in this capacity until the time of his death in New Jersey, 1889. His first annual report, that for 1864, bearing
the date of 1865, was a small pamphlet of but 20 pages, and contained a single-page colored geological map of the State, the second of its kind to be issued, the first having been by H. D. Rogers.
Fic. 75.—Raphael Pumpelly.

<<<Page: 596>>>

One of the first tasks which Doetor Cook imposed upon himself after his appointment was the preparation of a large octavo volume, accompanied by a portfolio of maps, setting forth the condition of the knowledge of geology of the State up to the date of publication (1868). In this work he gave a general summary of all his previous work, and upon it we will draw largely for other facts which may be given here.
Naturally the question of the age and stratigraphic position of the white limestone came up for discussion. He quoted the opinion of togers (p. 326), and found reason for differing with him. He wrote:
In regard to the crystalline limestones he was mistaken. They are everywhere conformable to the gneiss and interstratified with it. His mistake is acknowledged by his former assistant, J. P. Lesley, in the American Journal of Science, LX X XIX, p-. 221. The true position and identity in age of the crystalline limestone and gneiss was proved by Vanuxem and Keating, in the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 1822, and this view has been sustained by all the observations of Doctor Kitchell and his assistants and can be easily verified by anyone who will visit the localities cited in this report. @
Cook was inclined to regard the magnetic iron ore as of sedimentary origin, deposited in beds just as were the gneiss and crystalline limestone, in this respect agreeing with Doctor Kitchell and disagreeing with H. D. Rogers.
As early as 1854 Cook had called attention to the gradual subsidence of the coast of New Jersey, and before his death was able to give ibsolute figures regarding the rate of depression.
Cook was born in Hanover, New Jersey, in 1818, and educated in the public schools of the State and the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, whence he graduated in 1839 with the degree of C. E. After gradua-
tion he remained at the Institute as tutor, adjunct proSketch of Cook. fessor, and finally full professor, until 1846, when he
removed to Albany, New York, where he was engaged at first in business and latterly as professor of mathematics and natural philosophy, and finally principal of the Albany Academy.
In 1852 he was sent to Europe by the State authorities of New York to study the salt deposits, with a view of developing those of Onondaga County. In 1853 he accepted a call to the chair of chemistry and natural sciences in Rutgers College, New Jersey, retaining his connection with the institution during the remainder of his life, though after 1854 being actively connected with the State geological survey. In 1880, moreover, he was made director of the State agricultural experiment station, which, indeed, had been established largely through his efforts.
“Studies by Mr. A. C. Spencer, of the United States Geological Survey, made during the season of 1904, point to an igneous origin for the gneiss. This view, of course, effectively disposes of the idea that the limestone is conformable with the gneiss and interstratified with it:
i -—

<<<Page: 597>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill.
GEORGE HAMMELL Cook.
State Geologist of New Jersey.

<<<Page: 598>>>



<<<Page: 599>>>

A noble and unselfish man, who, as some one has expressed it, ‘‘ went in and out of the houses of this State, making friends of every man, woman, and child he met.” Farseeing, persistent, ever calm and judicious in his work, yet light hearted and cheerful among his friends— his broad expanse of face, full of light, his eyes gleaming with kindliness, as well as with shrewdness, and often with a right-merry twinkle; his genial smile, his frank greeting, never marred by any hollow and flippant phrase of mere etiquette, but as honest as it is cordial; his sympathy, so responsive yet so genuine; his massive though quiet strength of purpose; and his self-contained, self-poised nature, all crowned with boundless hopefulness, united to make his very presence an inspiration and benediction.
In the author’s memory there are two men among American geologists who stand out as devotees of science, yet entirely free from the narrowness of the specialist or the personal idiosyncrasies that so frequently mar the character of men of their class. These two men are George H. Cook and Edward Orton. They loved science for science sake, yet did not close their eyes to its economic bearing, nor call upon an overtaxed public to support them in the work they loved, regardless of its outcome. Never a minister of the gospel had the interests of his parishioners more at heart than these two men that of the public they served. For themselves they asked simply the privilege of doing the work and doing it to the best of their ability.
B. F. Mudge, as State geologist, submitted his First Annual Report on the Geology of Kansas for the year 1864, in form of an
octavo volunie-of 56 pages, 9 "tO See sa eee ue in 1866. He announced the 5e
lowest geological formation of the State to be the upper portion of the Coal Measures, of which be gave a section in Leavenworth County. He accepted the identification of the Permian age of the fossils which had been described by Meek, Hayden, and Swallow, and noted the occurrence of the Triassic and probably the Jurassic also, in a belt of territory crossing the Republican and Smoky Hill valleys, and also the Cretaceous, the geographic limits of which had not been worked out. He regarded the drift and erratic bowlders as due to icebergs.
Professor Mudge was born in Maine in 1817, and graduated at
Wesleyan University, Connecticut, in 1840. After Sketch of Mudge. graduation he studied law and, being admitted to the bar, practiced his profession in Lynn, Massachusetts, until 1859. . During 1859 and 1860 he was employed as chemist in the Chelsea, Massachusetts, and Breckinridge, Kentucky, oil refineries,

<<<Page: 600>>>

and in 1861 he removed to what is now Kansas City, Kansas, where he engaged in teaching. Such a life would now be considered as little fitting a man for the profession of geology, yet in 1864, having by invitation delivered a course of lectures before the Kansas legislature upon the geological resources of the State, he was unanimously elected State geologist, a position which he, however, filled for but a single year, resigning to accept the professorship in natural history in the Agricultural College at Manhattan, where he remained until 1873. His resignation from this last position is stated to have been caused by disgust aroused at the political conditions in which the institution became involved and the assumption of its presidency by a well-known politician, with no qualifications whatever for the position.
Although by profession a lawyer, Mudge is stated to have been throughout his whole life deeply interested in natural sciences, and while in Lynn to have taken an active part in the organization of the Lynn Natural History Society. In Kansas his scientific work was largely in the line of exploration. |
Arduous, intrepid, willingly undergoing hardships and dangers for the sake of science, he explored a very large part of Kansas when explorations meant real dangers and hardships of the most pronounced kind. As early as 1870 he made explorations in the extreme western part of the State in the study of its geology and paleontology, and for years afterwards nearly every summer found him in the midst of the Indian country, usually wholly without protection from the danger of hostile Indians, save such as his own rifle and revolver afforded. In the summer of 1874 he explored the whole length of the Smoky Hill River, an utterly trackless wild, infested by Indians, whose murderous depredations were visible on every side.
Mudge’s bibliography is brief and the papers generally limited to but a few pages at most. His material he willingly put in the hands of others for publication, and Marsh, Cope, White, and Lesquereux profited thereby. It was during one of these earlier trips that he discovered the first specimen of Ichthyornis, which, coming into the hands of Marsh, did so much toward making the latter famous.
Mudge made the first geological map of the State (Kansas), which is fairly correct in its main features, save for the Lower Cretaceous, which he failed to recognize.
He mapped and described with tolerable accuracy and fullness the physical structures of the different Cretaceous and Tertiary horizons. Much, if not most, of the information thus given was based upon his patient researches in wagon or on foot. In general it may truthfully be said that his pioneer work in Kansas geology was important and extensive, though now largely superseded by more detailed and accurate studies. His work in life, however, has chiefly borne fruit as a teacher. He was widely known as an enthusiastic and able lecturer, and his courses were always in demand by the teachers and scientific men of the State. His quiet modesty and unselfishness disarmed all envy and jealousy. Of most charming personality, of wide culture, and unbounded enthusiasm, his teachings made an unusual impression upon all with whom he came in contact.

<<<Page: 601>>>

In 1866, G. C. Swallow, who succeeded B. F. Mudge as State geologist, issued a Preliminary Report of the Geological Survey of Kansas, in form of an octavo volume of 198 pages, including a report Sloe by Dr. Tiffin Sinks on the Climatology, and one by Geological Survey Dr. C. A. Logan on the Sanitary relations of the State. of Kansas, 1866. 5 :
Maj. F. Hawn was assistant geologist.
Special attention was given to the eastern and central part of the State. He found rocks belonging to Quaternary, Tertiary, Cretaceous, Triassic (7), Permian, Lower Permian, and Carboniferous formations, the lowermost division being the Lower Carboniferous. The buff, mottled, and red sandstones underlying the Cretaceous were doubtfully referred to the Triassic from their resemblance to the foreign Triassic and the presence of a Vucula resembling the Speciosa of Munster from the Muschelkalk of Bindlock. The presence of Permian beds, it will be remembered, he had previously announced. The coal-bearing rocks he estimated at 2,000 feet in thickness and underlying an area of over 17,000 square miles. In these he announced twenty-two distinct and separate beds of coal, ranging in thickness from 1 to 7 feet.
This work of Swallow in Kansas has been largely overlooked by recent workers. According to Keyes,“ a large portion of it was not only good but marvelously well done for its day and the conditions under which it was accomplished. The historical importance of Swallow’s work ‘lies in the fact that some of his geographic names applied to geologic terranes will have to stand as valid terms, although his correlations were often very bad.”
Swallow, like Mudge, was born in Maine, but was of Norman-French descent. He studied the natural sciences under Parker Cleaveland, at Bowdoin College, graduating in 1843, and,
after several years in educational work, acc epted the Sketch of Swallow. chair of chemistry, geology, and mineralogy in the
University of Missouri in Columbia. From 1856 to 1861, the date of the discontinuation of the survey, he served as ecologist of Missouri, and in 1865 was appointed State geologist of Kansas, as elsewhere noted.
He is represented to us as a large, fine-looking man, over 6 feet in height, and a very close observer of all natural phenomena. -According to Professor Broadhead, ‘t‘ No other man during the same length of time has ever gone into a strange field, traversed the country, and published a vy olnme all in a year and a half, as he did.” Swallow was
Fic. 77.—George Clinton Swallow.
a Reuss Geolenen ote. 1900, p. 347.

<<<Page: 602>>>

connected for a time (1867-1870) with mining operations in Montana, but his scientific field was limited wholly to Missouri and Kansas.
At the December (1865) meeting of the Boston Society of Natural History, Dr. N. S. Shaler, then but twenty-four years of age and a graduate of the Lawrence Scientific School in Cambridge, made some Bia td te ae interesting remarks on the elevation of ee on Continental Uplift, Masses. Referring to the assumptions of Charles
Babbage and Sir John Herschel relative to the shifting of isothermal lines and consequent expansion and local uplift along lines of deposition, he went on to argue that for the same reason sea bottoms on which sedimentation was taking place would be areas of depression, since the curving must take place in the direction of greatest expansion. In like manner, uplifting would take place along lines of denudation. The intermediate point between the two zones of movement would naturally be the sea border, and hence here would occur the fracturing of the superincumbent strata and resultant volcanic phenomena. In this way, assuming the original nuclei of the continents, or points first elevated above sea level, to have been in the northern portion of the sphere, he thought it probable they would continue to grow by uplift southward in a succession of southwardlypointed triangles.
Some six months later, in June, 1866, he read before the same society a paper on the formation of mountain chains, which is also of interest in this connection. Accepting the theory that the earth’s mass consists of a solid nucleus, a hardened outer crust, and an intermediate zone of slight depth in a condition of imperfect igneous fusion, he argued, as in a previous paper, that while the continental folds were probably corrugations of the whole thickness of the crust the mountain chains were but folds of the outer portion caused by the contraction of the lower portions of this outer shell, the contraction in both cases being due to loss of heat. Further, the subsidence of the ocean’s floors would, through producing fractures and dislocations along those lines, tend to promote the formation of mountain chains along and parallel with the sea borders.
Still again, in 1868, Shaler (having in the meantime been elected professor of geology in Harvard University) brought up before the Society the matter of the nature of the movements involved in the changes of level of shore lines, and this time with particular reference to changes coincident with or subsequent to the Glacial period. He showed that local phenomena of continental uplift or depression, as measured by the level of the sea at the shore line, might be variously modified by the position of the points of rotation, whether immediately at the shore line or at a greater or less distance, either seaward or inland. Of greater significance, however, were his remarks relative to the changes in level at the time of glaciation, Referring to

<<<Page: 603>>>

a previous paper, where he showed that a compound bar would, when heated, bend toward the side composed of the most expansive material, he compared such a bar to a portion of the earth’s crust covered with several thousand feet of ice and snow. The effect of this blanket would be to cause the isothermal lines to move outward toward the surface, causing thus an expansion of that portion of the crust immediately beneath the ice. But the ice itself would partake very slightly, if at all, of this increased temperature, and, as in the case of the compound bar, the bending would take place in the direction of maximum expansion, 1. e., in this particular case, downward. In this way, he suggested, the depression accompanying the period of maximum glaciation might be accounted for. °
C. F. Hartt and Orestes St. John accompanied Agassiz in the capacity of geologists on the Thayer Expedition to Brazil during the years 1865-66. In 1867 Hartt made a second i journey, spending several in Brazil, months on the coast, be-
tween Pernambuco and Rio, exploring more particularly the vicinity of Bahia and the islands and coral reefs of the Abrolhos.
The results of this and the previous expedition were published in book form in 1870, under the title of Geology and Physical Geography of Brazil. In this work the eneisses of the Province of Rio de Janeiro are regarded as metamorphosed or sedi‘ mentary deposits and of Azoic age. Their pyc, 73—charles Frederick Hartt. thickness he did not even estimate, recognizing the fact that their apparent enormous thickness was due to numerous reversed folds, so that one might travel for miles over their upturned edges, finding them always highly inclined and dipping in the same general direction.
Concerning the probable age of the metamorphic rocks succeeding the gneisses he found no proof, though it was suggested they might be Silurian or Devonian. South of Rio he found unmistakable Carboniterous rocks, including beds of bituminous coal, and in the prov ince of Sergipe, underlying the Cretaceous, a thick series of red sandstones, referred to the Triassic. No Jurassic was recognized.
Marine Cretaceous beds of undetermined extent were found north of the Abrolhos Islands, which were conformably overlaid by clays and ferruginous sandstone, referred to the Tertiary. Overlying this along the whole coast he found an immense sheet of structureless clays, gravels, and bowlder deposits, which he believed, with Agassiz, to have been the work of glacial ice, though he noted that nowhere
NAT Mus 1904——34 |

<<<Page: 604>>>

had there been seen either polished or striated rocks, such as are almost constant accompaniments of glaciation elsewhere. It is almost needless to add that this view is no longer held by anyone, the bowlders supposed to have been erratics being merely bowlders of decomposition and their distribution the work of gravity and water.
In 1870 Hartt went again to Brazil, and in 1875, while professor of geology at Cornell University, was appointed chiee of the geological commission of that country, with Richard Rathbun as assistant. He died in 1878.
An act of the State legislature of Minnesota approved March 2, 1865, provided for the establishment of a State geological survey, but one which proved short-lived. Henry E. Eames was made State ne See geologist, and during his term of office made two brief in Minnesota, reports of 23 and 58 pages respectively, both bearing
on the title page the date of 1866. The work was almost wholly of an economic nature. .
Eugene W. Hilgard, in an article in the American Journal of Science for 1866, pointed out the great difference in the character of the drift in the north and northeast and that of the west (Mississippi Val-
ley). He felt that the glacial theory alone, as then theprit isco,” = understood, could not account for these deposits north
of the Ohio any more than for the Osage sand delta south of it. Though referring to Agassiz’s observation regarding ‘the melting snow of the declining glacial epoch” and its instrumentality in forming river terraces, he adopted as more plausible the idea first announced by Toumey to the effect that the southern drift may have been formed in consequence of the sudden melting of the northern glaciers, ‘‘such as would have resulted from a first rapid depression of so large a mass of ice below the snow line.” At first the flood action would be violent, producing the deep erosion of the underlying formations and the transportation and redeposition in mass of their materials. After the first rush, the stratified deposits would be formed, mingled with more or less bowlder material from floating ice. The influx of cold water from the north would, he thought, account for the absence of signs of life in the deposits. The ‘* grandly simple means of a single elevation and redepression in the northern latitudes * * * will equally satisfy the conditions required for the formation of the western and southern drift.”
W.C. Kerr, who succeeded Professor Emmons as State geologist of North Carolina, received his commission on April 4, 1866, and conare Ge tinued in service until the time of his death, in 1885. Sore tn Nore His first Report of Progress, submitted in January,
1867, was an octavo volume of 56 pages, in which the purposes of the survey were set forth and a summary of the geology of the western part of the State given, so far as known. ‘The rocks of

<<<Page: 605>>>

this western area were regarded as belonging ‘*‘ to the most ancient of the Azoic series,” and to have been above sea level since very ancient times. As with his predecessors, Kerr was troubled to account for the drift, noting that while it occurred far beyond the limits usually ascribed to glacial action, yet there were *‘ numerous phenomena which have no other plausible explanation.”
Kerr’s second report, submitted in 1869, was of equal brevity, but naturally contained more of the results of the author’s personal observations. He noted that the mountains, plateaus, and valleys of the French Broad and Lower Catawba areas owed ‘‘ their existence and all the details of their form and position to the action of water, the basins = * * being * * * without exception, valleys of erosion, haying in no case an anticlinal or synclinal origin.”
The entire western portion of the State he considered as consisting
of four groups or formations, first, the— Cherokee slates along the Smoky Mountains, on the northwest border, consisting of clay slates and shales, sandstones, grits, conglomerates, and limestones; second, the Buncombe group, occupying the larger portion of the great transmontane plateau between the Blue Ridge and Smoky Mountains, and consisting of gneissic and granitoid rocks; third, the Linville slates, a narrow belt stretching for the most part along the Blue Ridge and composed, like the first group, of semimetamorphie argillaceous slates and shales, sandstones, limestone, and gneissoid grits; fourth, the Piedmont group, gneissic and granitoid.
He noted further that these four groups constituted two recurrences: of the same rocks, in the same order, recalling Rogers’s theory of reduplication by folding and overturns, as worked out in Pennsylvania.
John L. Le Conte, a cousin of the Joseph Le Conte, elsewhere noted, is known to science rather through his entomological than geological writings. Five papers are credited to his pen by Darton in his
John L. LeConte’s 2talogue and Index of North American Geology. Of
Union Pacific R yot 7 > + ‘ Railroad Survey, these, the most important and the only one that need na here be considered is one on the geology of the survey
for the extension of the Union Pacific Railroad from the Smoky Hill River, Kansas, to the Rio Grande. He made a detailed study of the coal beds, and on the basis of their molluscan remains maintained that such were of Cretaceous age rather than Tertiary, as claimed by Lesquereux. His reasoning as to the relative value of botanical and molluscan remains for determining the age of beds is worthy of note. He wrote: ‘‘ The difference between the plants of our early Cretaceous and those of the European middle Tertiary could be ascertained only after much discussion and by the stratigraphy of the region, and we have no right from a few resemblances in vegetables to infer the synchronism either of the western lignite beds with each other, or any of them with the European Eocene and Miocene, except when supported by paleontological evidence derived from animal remains.” In this most geologists will now agree with him.

<<<Page: 606>>>

Le Conte’s views, as shown in this report, concerning the general development of the western portion of the continent, indicated an ability to deal with the larger problems of geology in a philosophical and highly satisfactory manner, and it is perhaps to be regretted that he should have allowed himself to be drawn off into other pursuits. As noted, this paper was the most important of his geological writings, as it was also the last.
The second geological survey of Iowa was inaugurated in April, 1866, with Dr. Charles A. White as director, and Orestes St. John, principal geological assistant. The survey continued to the end of
1869, results being published in the form of two royal nite Seovigos, octavo volumes, comprising all told some 443 pages, with a colored geological map of the entire State.
As Hall and Whitney had devoted a large portion of their attention during the previous survey to the eastern part of the State, so White devoted himself mainly to an investigation of the phenomena of the western part. He found reason, as noted in his introductory letter to the governor, to discourage all explorations for mineral oils or precious metals in the State, and also pointed out the hazard of exploring for coal beyond the northern and eastern boundaries of the coal field as designated in his geological map. He also showed that, though iron ore of a good quality had frequently been found in the State, the deposits were always limited. In all of these points he was correct.
Considerable attention was given to the peat deposits and an estimate made of the amount of material within the State limits which could be utilized for fuel purposes should occasion demand.
Among the phenomena of lesser importance he called attention to the moving of the bowlders on the shores of lakes and piling them into wall-like masses through the expansive action of the freezing water. The so-called Bluff deposit he considered to be of more recent origin than the drift, and referred it to the earliest part of the so-called Terrace epoch, the material composing it having originated by fluvia‘tile erosion immediately upon the close of the Glacial epoch, being afterwards deposited as a lacustral sediment in the broad depression in the surface of the drift left by the retreating glaciers. He differed entirely with Whitney as to the cause of the absence of trees in the prairie region, and felt no hesitation in declaring that the real cause of the existence of the prairies in Iowa was the recurrence of the annual fires.
He divided the formations of the State into Azoic, Lower Silurian, Upper Silurian and Devonian, Carboniferous, and Cretaceous systems, and regarded the Sioux Falls quartzite, with its associated pipestone, as belonging to the Azoic. The Potsdam sandstone, which he found reaching a thickness in the State of about 300 feet, he thought to be probably overlying this Sioux quartzite. This view is generally held to-day.

<<<Page: 607>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1860—1869. 5oo
White regarded it as evident that there was no hope of profitable lead mining within the limits of the State in the Lower Magnesian limestone, in this agreeing with Whitney (p. 468). For the so-called Hudson River shales of Hall he substituted the name of Maquoketa shales. All the Devonian rocks of the State he referred to the Hamilton period.
He found a strict conformability in atl the rocks from the Potsdam sandstones to the Keokuk limestone, inclusive, but between this last and the rocks of the Coal Measures an unconformability and also one between the St. Louis limestone and the older formations of the subCretaceous group. Instead of there being only one formation of Carboniferous limestone, as had been generally supposed, White claimed to have found two, each possessing similar lithological but different paleontological characteristics, the one overlying and the other underlying the coal-producing strata.
The various folds found in the strata of the Lowa rocks he regarded as all having taken place subsequent to the deposition of the latest strata of Carboniferous age and before any of those of Cretaceous age were deposited.
The gypsum deposits were thought to be presumably of Mesozoic age and as having originated through chemical precipitation in comparatively still waters which were saturated with sulphate of lime and destitute of life. The fact that these deposits contained no fossils rendered the exact determination of their geological age a matter of some difficulty. It is therefore well to note that Keyes in his report in 1895 refers them to the upper part of the Mesozoic—the Cretaceous.“
White, it should be noted, had in 1860? described in considerable detail the rocks and their included fossils in the vicinity of Burlington, lowa. He identified here eight beds, the lower six of which he regarded as the equivalent of, though not necessarily contemporaneous with, the Chemung of New York. The two upper beds, which were of limestone, he regarded as Carboniferous, though he remarked that the line drawn between the two formations was largely imaginary, indicating merely the limit where the Devonian species ceased to predominate and upward from which the Carboniferous species flourished in full force. :
It was suggested that the Devonian species might have originated at the east and migrated westward during the time that the bottom of the Chemung sea was gradually sinking and receiving the deposits forming the Old Red sandstone, thus making the Devonian rocks equivalent to the New York Chemung and contemporaneous, in part at least, with the Old Red Sandstone of the Catskill Mountains. °
“Report of the State Geological Survey of Iowa, VII, 1895.
» Boston Journal of Natural History, VIII, 1859-1863, pp. 205-235.
¢ All of the six beds then supposed to be Devonian are now commonly regarded as belonging to the basal Carboniferous ( Kinderhook ). ;

<<<Page: 608>>>

Later (in 1866) Niles and Wachsmuth studied the upper beds, which had become known as the Burlington limestone, and were led by the crinoidal remains to regard the two divisions as two independent formations, which they designated as the Lower and U pper Burlington, a subdivision which still holds.
Safford’s final report on the geology of Tennessee did not appear until 1869, having been delayed by the incidents of the civil war. It
poe erers was accompanied by a colLE —s ored geological map of the State, and a geological sec-
tion, unSafford’s Final Report on the Geology of colored 5
Tennessee, 1869. : extending from the Unaka chain on the east of the Mississippi, and giving, on the whole, a very comprehensive and easily understood idea of the physical geography and geology of the State, as well as its economic resources. He here called attention to the frequent recurrence of the same formation, or series of formations, met with in crossing Kast Tennessee, and accounted for the phenomena on the theory that the bed had been thrown into a series of parallel and closely compressed and overturned folds, the crests of which had Fic. 79.—Charles ADLER Gs Rush Emery, and een subsequently denuded Orestes St. John. (see p488).
Although on his map a section of the Ocoee conglomerate was put down as belonging at the top of the Azoic series, in his chapter on the Potsdam group it was stated that the Ocoee conglomerate and slates, Chilhowee sandstones, and Knox ‘group of shales, dolomites, and limestones might be regarded as a formation which corresponds to Dana’s Potsdam period, and that it was not easy to separate, lithologically, the Ocoee subgroup from the Chilhowee, as they often run into each other.
The main bulk of the report was given up to a discussion of the distribution, lithological nature, and characteristic fossils of the various formations. He was disposed to regard the Porter’s Creek group

<<<Page: 609>>>

of the Tertiary as distinct from the Orange sand, this latter name having been originally provisionally applied by him to a series of strata which he regarded as, for the most part, equivalent to Hilgard’s northern lignitic. The general grouping of the formations, from the Cretaceous upward, was essentially the same as had been given by him in a previous paper in the American Journal of Science (1864), and which is as follows, beginning at the bottom:
ll, (Clattirass fennel" toes ee NA oe ee ee A ee ess eee Cretaceous. Pmcreenusand.ormersnellubed:= sce. ssc 22 Ase faces ec se se cece Cretaceous. SUpLovsOLOlps pLowisional) 4 bates! se sist bbc. oS psnce oe Cretaceous.
AL Ourers Oreeksoroulpn (provislOnall)) peepee see ses sijas 3 = «s/s ai=r Tertiary (?) Oran e sandr barranCeonOup ees eee aa ess sees sei sia ata = sino Tertiary. Omblutilhieniter(prowmislonalliee scene sete eae ee yee let ccs = Tertiary (?) Fi, LBAREIA Wiel Lee pe SU eee SRL oP ape 20 ae eee ee Post-Tertiary. BIEN lepine CS 9 ae aE UR ee ects ea 4 ee ee ee ee Se Post-Tertiary. MS OULOM EAL V AINA en ees ona eR REGS won eau Salas Modern.
Fifteen new species of invertebrate fossils were described. The work does not seem to have attracted much attention at the time, and was given but a half-page review in the American Journal of Science for that year. In this, attention was merely called to the fact that Safford differed with Hilgard on the question of the age of the Orange sand.
In 1869 E. W. Hilgard, acting under the auspices of the New Orleans Academy of Sciences, made a reconnaissance of Louisiana, a summary of the results of which was published in the American Journal of Sci-
ence for 1869. The expense of the trip was paid partly Ligatana 1860... by subscription and partly by an appropriation by the
State Board of Immigration, and the time limited to thirty days. The journey (some 625 miles) was made mainly on horseback, passing Petite Anse and New Iberia on the Teche by way of Opelousas to Bayou Chicot; thence to the Caleasieu River, down that stream to Lake Charles and the sulphur and petroleum wells, on the West Fork of the Calcasieu River; thence north to Sabine Town, Texas; thence by way of Many to Mansfield, Louisiana; thence, crossing Red River at Coushatta Chute landing to the salines on Saline Bayou, and thence, by way of Winnfield and Harrisonburg on the Ouachita River, where the expedition terminated. Among the more striking results announced was the fact that the Gulf coast has in late Quaternary times suffered a depression to the extent of at least 900 feet, and during the Terrace epoch a contrary motion to the extent of about half that amount. The occurrence of sulphur and gypsum beds was also noted. The various formations were described as: The Port Hudson group, the Orange sand formation, the Grand Gulf formation, the Vicksburg group, and the Mansfield group.
In 1869 the geological survey of Michigan, which had been brought to a close in 1861 by the outbreak of the civil war, was resuscitated

<<<Page: 610>>>

through an act of the legislature, establishing a board of survey, consisting of the governor of the State, the president of the board of education, and the superintendent of public instruction, with power to select geologists, disburse the money appropriated, eicnieent 1aee: and perform other necessary acts. Under this law Prof. Alexander Winchell was again made director, and undertook himself the investigation of the Lower Peninsula, with the assistance of his brother N. H. Winchell, M. W. Harrington, E. A. Strong, A. M. Wadsworth, C. B. Headley, A. O. Currier, and J. H. Emerson. Later (1873-1876), after Winchell’s retirement, C. Réminger was appointed by the board to work on the Lower Peninsula also.To Maj. T. B. Brooks, as a State geologist, was assigned the survey of the iron regions; to Raphael Pumpelly that of the copper regions of the Upper Peninsula, and to Carl Rominger a study of the Paleozoic rocks and their associated fossils. Brooks’s report, submitted in 1873 and forming part one of the first volume of the reports of this survey, was written with the idea of making it ‘tas complete a manual as possible of information relating to the finding, extracting, transporting, and smelting of the iron ores of the Lake Superior region.” With this in view, he presented in the order here given, first, an historical sketch of the discovery and development of the iron mines; second, the geology of the Upper Peninsula, including the lithology; third, the geology of the Marquette iron region; fourth, the geology of the Menominee iron region; fifth, the Lake Gogebic and Montreal River iron ridge; sixth, a chapter on exploration and prospecting for ore; and seventh, the magnetism of rocks and use of the magnetic needle in exploring, concluding with chapters on the method and cost of mining specular and magnetic ores and the chemical composition of the ores. The lithological work on the rocks of the region was performed by A. A. Julian, of New York, his report forming the second volume (298 pages) of the survey. Brooks’s work contained scarcely anything of a speculative nature and but little as to the origin of the ores themselves. Brooks’s Work, With reference to the association of magnetic and specular ores, he wrote: If we suppose all our ores to have been once magnetic, and that the red specular was first derived from the magnetite and the hydrated oxide (soft hematites) in turn
from it, we have an hypothesis which best explains many facts and will be of use to the explorer.
Again, with reference to the ore of the Negaunee district:
If we suppose tepid alkaline waters to have permeated this formation and to have dissolved out the greater portion of the siliceous matter, leaving the iron oxide in an hydrated earthy condition, we would have the essential character exhibited by this formation as developed on the New England, Saginaw range, and, as will be seen afterward, at the Lake Superior mine. This is offered not so much as an hypothesis to account for the difference as to illustrate the facts observed.

<<<Page: 611>>>

This view, so modestly put, contains in it, however, the germ of the conclusions arrived at. by Van Hise some twenty-five years later.“
He noted the monoclinal character of the deposit at the Washington mine property in the Marquette region, and described the ore of the Lake Superior specular and hematite workings and the Barnum mine aus occupying the position of ‘‘the frustum of a hollow cone lying with its axis horizontal and its small end toward the east,” which had been cut in two by a horizontal plane representing the surface of the ground.
Other points, which it is well to note, since Rominger in his later report had occasion to disagree with him, are his regarding the ores of the Cascade Range as the equivalent of the Michigan and magnetic ores of the Mishigami district and as older than any of the iron beds in the Republic Mountain series; and, second, the Feleh Mountain ore deposit as belonging to the lower quartzite, the ore itself resting immediately upon and being bounded on the south by hornblendic, micaceous, and gneissic rocks which are undoubtedly Laurentian. Subsequent studies by Wadsworth, Van Hise, and others have shown him to be substantially correct in both of these conclusions.
Ill health prevented Brooks from ecarrying out his work in as thorough a manner as he wished, and his letter of transmittal was written from London, he having gone yy. g0.—Thomas Benton Brooks. abroad to recuperate.
Brooks, as may readily be inferred, was an eminently practical man. Indeed, his entire training was of a practical nature, consisting of two years at the School of Engineering of Union College and a single
course of lectures on geology under Lesley at the UniSketch of Brooks. versity of Pennsylvania. His early work was in con-
nection with land surveys, but after his retirement from the Army in the fall of 1864 he served a year on the geological survey of New Jersey under Cook, and then in 1865 became vicepresident and general manager of the Iron Cliff mine, near Negaunee, in the Marquette district of Michigan. Here he began that geological work upon which is mainly based his reputation. The difficulties which he encountered were such as can be scarcely comprehended by those who have not visited the region. The country was, much of it, heavily forested and swampy as well. Outcrops were few and perhaps wholly obscured by the drift or by undergrowth. There were no maps,
@ Monograph No. XXVIII, U. 8. Geological Survey, 1897.

<<<Page: 612>>>

or, at best, the very poor ones furnished by the Land Office, no railroads, and transportation was limited to canoes and pack animals. There were few prospect holes and fewer developed mines. To these difficulties were added the complications due to repeated folding and squeezing which the beds had undergone. Yet Brooks, by his persistency and originality in methods, succeeded in producing a work of value as a scientific production as well as of the greatest use to the prospector—a rare combination, indeed—and a work which has been superseded only by one that it took twenty years of study by an able corps of geologists and a hundredfold better facilities to produce.
Brooks devised the dial compass and adapted the dip needle to the purposes of the prospector. Persistent and determined to succeed in spite of the poverty of appropriations, he expended over $2,000 of his own means and, worst of all, sapped his own vitality in the work to the extent that he became a confirmed invalid before reaching middle age.
As already intimated, his health gave out in 1873 and he sought relief abroad, residing in London and Dresden, where his reports were completed. After his return to this country in 1876, he resided at Monroe and Newburgh, New York, and after 1883, during the winters, at Bainbridge, Georgia, living the life of a country gentleman and farmer.
Pumpelly’s work in the copper district is of interest on account of
; les recardine’ t ITI” 4 P a
RIE ie gand ikhotopial eicaies daueney ee eam 1869-1873. = = Sie nee The conclusions at which he arrived were as follows:
First, the cupriferous series was formed before the tilting of the Huronian beds upon which it rests conformably, and consequently before the elevation of the great Azoic area, whose existence during the Potsdam period predetermined the Silurian basins of Michigan and Lake Superior. Second, after the elevation of these rocks and after they had assumed their essential lithological characteristics, came the deposition of the sandstone and its accompanying shales, as products of the erosion of these older rocks, and containing fossils which show them to belong to the Lower Silurian, though it is still uncertain whether they should be referred to the Potsdam, Calciferous, or Chazy.
A chapter was given on the paragenesis of copper and its associates. With reference to these subjects he wrote:
It is still an open question whether the trap which formed the parent rock of the melaphyr was an eruptive or a purely metamorphic rock. If it was eruptive, it was spread over the bottom of the sea in beds of great regularity and with intervals which were occupied by the deposition of the beds of conglomerate and sandstones. It should seem probable that the copper in the melaphyrs was derived by concentration from the whole thickness of the sedimentary members of the group, including the thousands of feet of sandstones, conglomerates, and shales which overlie the melaphyrs, and including melaphyrs also.
The translocation he regarded as having been initiated by the sulphate of copper resulting from the oxidation of the sulphide, but as

<<<Page: 613>>>

this salt must have been soon decomposed by the abundant acid carbonate of lime, he could not suppose it to have been effectual in the final concentration of the large deposits, and he thought it more probable that this last was accomplished by the more permanent solution of carbonate and silicate of copper.
Pumpelly was assisted by A. R. Marvine, L. P. Emerson, and S. B. Ladd.
Rominger’s report on the Paleozoic rocks of the Upper Peninsula formed part 3 of the third volume of the Survey reports (1873). His second appeared in 1876, forming one of the four large octavo volumes
of the Survey, comprising altogether some 386 pages, C. Rominger’s Work _. oie = oa : in Michigan, 1873With 55 plates of fossils, and a colored geological map Sih of the area surveyed. The geological portion contains a record of the characteristic rocks, their geographical distribution, and the fossils they contain. It is to be noted that Rominger showed a disposition to disagree in many of his conclusions with Winchell, Brooks, and others who had preceded him.
The presence of large bowlders in the midst or on top of well-stratified drift layers he conceived to be due to the transportation of the material by means of swimming icebergs during periods of flood. In this he agreed, substantially, with Dawson, of the Canadian Survey. The dolomites of the Ida quarries, which Winchell identified as belonging with the Onondaga salt group (Upper Silurian), he considered as Upper Helderberg (Middle Devonian), and he stated that the mapping by Winchell of Upper Helderberg rocks throughout a great portion of Cass, Van Buren, and all over Berrien County, was an error. He also differed with Winchell regarding the stratigraphic position of the Hamilton rocks of Big Traverse Bay. Winchell’s Huron shales he considered from paleontological evidence, to be identical with the Cuyahoga shales of the Ohio geologists, and, therefore, belonging to the lower part of the Carboniferous rather than the Upper Devonian. He also accused Winchell of a peculiar stratigraphic blunder in preparing a section west of Flat Rock:
Unfortunately this section is laid across a synclinal undulation of the formation, and begins at one end with the same rock beds (Marshall sandstone), which on the other end are found very near the base. Under the impression that he was all the while descending, he stands again on the horizon from which he started.
The salt brines of the State, according to Rominger, are derived from rocks of the Waverly group, and not from those of a higher horizon, which Winchell had designated as the Michigan salt group.
Rominger also made reports on soils, building stones, and slate quarries, and on the Ontonagon silver mining district. What is perhaps the most valuable part of the report is that relating to the fossil corals. which was, for its time, unsurpassed.

<<<Page: 614>>>

Subsequently (1881) Rominger, still acting as a State geologist (1878-1880), issued a report on the Upper Peninsula, which dealt almost entirely with the economic problems of the iron region.
He regarded the region about Marquette as—
a synclinal trough of granite which, by the upheaval of its northern and southern margins, caused the inclosure of the incumbent sedimentary strata between its walls and their simultaneous uplift and corrugations into parallel folds. by the lateral pressure from its rising and approaching edges.
Concerning the origin of the iron ores of the Upper Peninsula, he wrote:
These ore deposits are not regular sedimentary layers originally formed of iron oxide in a state of purity, but are evidently the product of decomposition of the impurer mixed ferruginous ledges by percolating water, leaching out the siliceous matter and replacing it by the deposition of oxide of iron held in solution.
This view is not greatly different from the cenclusion reached by Brooks, as already noted, and subsequently by Van Hise.
His views as to the origin of serpentinous rocks were not at all clear. Writing with particular reference to those of Presque Isle, he remarked that they oceur— generally in bulky, nonstratified masses which, if they ever originated from mechanical sedimentary deposits, are by chemical action so completely transformed as to efface all traces of their former detrital structure. They resemble volcanic eruptive rocks forced to the surface in a soft, plastic condition, and most likely heat was one of the prime agents in their formation, or else transformation, in combination Fic. 81.—Carl Rominger. with aqueous vapors.
Rominger, in his first report, that on the Paleozoic rocks of the copper district, took the ground that the Silurian age of the Lake Superior sandstone was unequivocally proved by its stratigraphical position. This is the view now generally held, though the Potsdam period, to which the beds are referred, is now considered as the upper part of the Cambrian instead of the Lower Silurian, as at that date.
Rominger’s career, like that of Lesquereux and others that might
be mentioned, offers an interesting illustration of the Sketch of Rominger. difficulties with which the early naturalists had to
contend, particularly when foreigners and but little acquainted with the language of their adopted country.
Born in Wurtemberg, he came to America in 1848 on account of revolutionary disturbances, and without previous preparation. Though trained as a physician and geologist, yet his poor command of English he felt excluded him from associating with scientific men, and, being without financial resources, he established himself as a physi

<<<Page: 615>>>

cian in Cincinnati, a city containing a large German population, Here he remained for twenty-five years, improving himself in the language and devoting what time could be spared from his professional duties to the study of paleontology and geology. In 1870, through the influence of James Hall and others, he was appointed one of the geologists of the Michigan survey under Winchell, ultimately himself becoming director, in which position he remained until 1883, when, under a new administration, he was removed to make room for another. ;
His bibliography, although not numerous, is important, particularly that relating to paleontological matters. It had been his intention to continue his work on the fossil corals, but the political changes above mentioned prevented. The edition of his work issued by the State being insufficient to supply the demand, Rominger had printed 250 copies at a personal expense of $4.75 each, hoping to be able to sell them at least for the same figure. But this proved impossible, and he suffered a direct loss thereby of not less than S800.
A second geological survey of Ohio was inaugurated in 1869, and J.S. Newberry appointed chief geologist. This survey was continued in operation until 1878, when it was discontinued, owing to a disagree-
ment between Dr. Newberry and the legislature (see Oma Ysooisys, P481), by withholding the appropriations.
During the period of its existence two annual reports and four volumes of a final report were published, the latest bearing on the title-page the date of 1882. Of these the first volume was given up to geology,” the second and third to paleontology, and the fourth to zoology and botany. The first volume was, however, issued in two parts, of which Part I only was strictly geological, and Part I] paleontological. A third paleontological volume to be devoted to the Carboniferous flora was projected but never appeared, owing to failure of the legislature to make the necessary appropriations.
Newberry’s principal assistants in 1869 were E. B. Andrews, Edward Orton (who afterwards became State geologist), and John H. Klippart. In 1870 the force was increased by the employment of T. G. Wormley as chemist, and G. K. Gilbert, M. C. Read, Henry Newton, and W. B. Potter as local assistants. As one of the results of their investigations it was announced that the so-called Cliff limestone had been resolved into seven distinct formations belonging to the two great geological systems—the Devonian and UpperSilurian. The discovery of Oriskany sandstone in the northwest quarter of the State was announced and the Carboniferous age of the rocks of the Waverly group thought to have been established on paleontological evidence. This has, however, been since shown to be erroneous.
“An edition of 2,000 copies of this report was printed in the German language, as were also the annual reports of Rogers’s Survey of Pennsylvania.

<<<Page: 616>>>

Beginning with the later Tertiary times, the following sequence of events was established:
(a) In the Miocene and Pliocene epochs a continent several hundred feet lower than now, the ocean reaching to Louisville and Iowa, with a*subtropical climate prevailing over the lake region, the climate of Greenland and Alaska being as mild as that of southern Ohio is now, while herds of gigantic mammals ranged over the plains.
(2) A preglacial epoch of gradual continental elevation which culminated in the glacial epoch, when the climate of Ohio was similar to that of Greenland at present, and glaciers covered a lenpe part of the surface down to the parallel of forty degrees.
(c) This period was followed by another interval of continental subsidence characterized by a warmer climate and melting of the glaciers and by inland fresh-water seas filling the lake basin, and in which were deposited the Erie and Champlain clays, sands, and bowlders.
(7) Another epoch of elevation which is still in progress.
Much attention was given to economic geology and the study of the coal beds. From analyses it was shown that the change from woody tissues to peat or lignite, and thence to bituminous and anthracite coal and plumbago consisted in the evolution of a portion of the carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, leaving a constantly increasing percentage of carbon Wane This evolution Newberry conceived to be due to the disturbances which resulted in the uplifting of the mountain chains and metamorphosed the included rocks.
The coal beds of Ohio, it should be noted, were considered as always having been separated from those of Illinois by the Cincinnati anticline. This Cincinnati uplift or arch was, in the report for 1869, regarded as having formed a land surface over a considerable portion of its length at least during the earlier and probably throughout all the Devonian ages. Later, in discussing the work of Orton in Adams County, Newberry wrote:
Here we have an indubitable record of the elevation of the Cincinnati arch between the Upper and Lower Silurian ages, and proof that it is far older than the Appalachian system, with which it has been commonly associated.
The carbonaceous matter of the Huron shales was suggested a probably due to an abundance of seaweeds which flourished in a kind of Saragossa sea which occupied that region during the period of detushion.
The. petroleum and gas filling the cavities and interstices in the sandstones and conglomerates in the Oil Creek region were regarded as not indigenous to those rocks, but rather as originating in the lower-lying Huronian shales, from = w hene ‘a they had been forced upward by hydrostatic pressure.
The dolomitic character of the rocks of the Clinton, Niagara, and Water-lime series was ascribed to ‘ta yital rather than a chemical or

<<<Page: 617>>>

physical cause,” and the occurrence of a large percentage of magnesia in the hard parts of some groups of marine invertebrates, as the Millipores, cited as a possible explanation of the origin of the rock, in this following a suggestion made by Dana in the report of the Wilkes Exploring Expedition.
The sheet of clay and bowlders which was found directly overlying the polished surface of the rocks over so large a part of the State, and which is now known as till and bowlder clay, was described under the name of glacial drift, while the loose bowlders which are indiscriminately scattered over the State, frequently resting on the fine stratified clays, were known under the name of *‘ iceberg drift.”
Newberry conceived that, during the latter part of the glacial period, a great inland sea of fresh water filled the basins before occupied by ice,
‘the northern shore of which was formed by the ice wall at the foot of the glacier. The mud which was brought into this lake through the grinding action of the glacier and there deposited formed the so-called Erie clays.
For the rocks of the so-called b/ue limestone series of the early geological surveys — he adopted the name Cincinnati group, as first applied by Meek and Worthen. The gypsum of the Salina group was regarded as precipitated in continuous sheets and not to have resulted from a change in the ordinary limestones by sulphuric acid, as had been claimed for the gypsum beds of New York. This is the view now commonly accepted.
It appears that Colonel Whittlesey was an aspirant for the position of State geoloFic. 82.—Charles Whittlesey. gist at the time of Newberry’s appointment, ; and to judge from the tone of an article by Newberry published in the Cincinnati Commercial,“ adopted rather unfair means to throw discredit Mose upon the latter’s work. In his reply Newberry ras eee cea kOe bitter, stating that whatever may have been his
own qualifications for the work, Whittlesey was too old and in too poor health to do good work, and also that he was not a good geologist; that, further, he held to certain geological heresies which would impair his work; that he believed in the mineral origin of coal, and that the brown hematite ores of the Alleghenies were interstratified with the limestones instead of being mere pockets. He further claimed that Whittlesey was no paleontologist, and without paleontology no man could be a good geologist. As an illustration of his deficiency in this respect, Newberry referred to his (Whittlesey’s) paper on the
a@March 28, 1870.

<<<Page: 618>>>

Equivalency of the Rocks of Northeastern Ohio, in which he identified certain rocks as equivalent with the Chemung, Portage, and Hamilton groups, of New York, on paleontological grounds, whereas in fact every one of the twelve species of fossils on which this identification was based was wrongly named, the fossils actually being wholly of Carboniferous age.
Dr. E. Andrews, who was one of Newberry’s assistants on the Ohio geological survey, in the American Journal of Science for 1869, wrote on the western bowlder drift, and took the ground that the fresh-water Peels Svat SM submergence which deposited the loess was not a conthe Glacial Drift, tinuation of the drift action, but was in that region
separated from it by a tranquil period during which the rivers were down within their banks. As a whole, the western drift was, he thought— beyond all question a stratified water deposit. A study of the cliffs eroded by the lakes, showing both modified and unmodified drift, has obliged those western geologists most familiar with the sections to abandon the glacial theory and admit that the bowlder drift of this region is altogether an aqueous deposit, though the waters floated vast quantities of ice.
He described the occurrence of bowlders of loose gravel, sometimes 3 feet in diameter, in the clay passed through in digging the tunnel under the lake for the Chicago waterworks extension. Such he regarded as masses of frozen gravel dropped from floating ice. With reference to the gravel deposits on the peninsula between Green Bay and Lake Michigan, covering an area of 4,000 square miles, he wrote:
The stratified character of the gravel * * * is on the whole too evident to admit of any possible doubt. * * * It would seem to be an unavoidable inference that our drift of this region not only came from the north, but it came in a vast sweep of water deep enough to cover gravel hills more than 800 feet high, and with velocity enough to throw such coarse material into lofty steeps and summits.
Again, concerning the absence of drift on the north slope of the Laurentian hills and the scratched and ‘‘ pounded” aspect of the region, he wrote:
We seem, therefore, to have testimony that the drift action for a thousand miles east and west along the Laurentian crest and to an unknown distance north of it was too violent to admit of drift deposits, even the bowlders being swept off.
The finer character of the material in northern and central Illinois he thought to be due to the léss violent rush of the waters. These waters he imagined to have been drawn off suddenly after the deposition of the Orange loam, thus accounting for the absence of beach lines.
These views are not quite those of Newberry himself, as expressed ina paper before the New York Lyceum in 1870. From facts observed in the basin of the Great Lakes and the Valley of the Mississippi, he

<<<Page: 619>>>

argued that, synchronously with the glacial epoch of Europe, the
northern half of North America had a climate comparable with that of
Greenland, and that, as a resuit, glaciers were formed,
New Deit,isyo, the direction of flow of which corresponded in a gen-
. eral way with the present drainage channels. The
Lower Mississippi he looked upon as a ‘‘ half-drowned river ”—that is,
one with its lower channel deeply submerged and silted up, an unmis-
takable proof that at that period the country stood at a considerably greater elevation than at present.
The trough of the Mississippi, to his mind, was simply a valley of erosion which, since the close of the Carboniferous period, had been traversed by a river which drained the area of the northern Mississippi, the Ohio, and the Tennessee, and, since the Miocene period, the Missouri, Arkansas, and the Red rivers as well. Through alternate elevation and depression the mouth of the stream had varied its position from time to time to the amount of a thousand miles, the final longcontinued depression being the primary cause of the climatic amelioration which brought the glacial period to an end..
The fine blue-gray and highly plastic so-called Erie clays and their accompanying sands and bowlders were to him due to floating icebergs during a period of continental depression and great inland seas, deposited, in fact, just as similar materials are conceived as now being scattered over the sea bottoms about Newfoundland.
If we restore in imagination this inland sea, which we have proved once filled the basin of the lakes, gradually displacing the retreating glaciers, we are inevitably led to a time in the history of this region when the southern shore of this sea was formed by the highlands of Ohio, etc., the northern shore a wall of ice resting on the hills of crystalline and trappean rocks about Lake Superior and Lake Huron.
From this ice wall masses must from time to time have been detached, just as they are now detached from the Humboldt glacier, and floated off southward with the current, bearing in their grasp sand, gravel, and bowlders—whatever composed the beach from which they sailed. Five hundred miles south they grounded upon the southern shore—the highlands of now western New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, or the shallows of the prairie region of Indiana, Illinois, and Iowa. There melting away and depositing their entire loads, as I haye sometimes seen them, a thousand or more bowlders on a few acres, resting on the Erie clays and looking in the distance like flocks of sheep, or dropping here and there a stone and floating on east or west till wholly dissipated.
The loess, as one would naturally expect from the foregoing, was looked upon as the finer sediment deposited in the quiet waters of one of these inland seas, to which the icebergs had no access. The lake basins, with the exception of that of Lake Superior, which is a synclinal trough, were regarded as excavated by glacial action and once much deeper than now, having become partially filled with drift deposits as they gradually emerged. Temporary pauses in the period of uplift would give time for wave action, and thus would be formed the terraces and ancient beaches so commonly found in the lake regions.
NAT Mus 1904——35

<<<Page: 620>>>

Newberry was succeeded as State geologist by Edward Orton, who had previously acted as chief assistant. During Orton’s administration certain ‘‘ pardonable errors in identification,” which left the stratiga cae Bieta raphy of the coal series of Ohio in an almost hopeless as State Geologist, tangle, were corrected. He showed the stratigraphical
order of the lower Coal Measures of Ohio to be completely in harmony with that of Pennsylvania and that the entire series could be traced from the eastern margin of the State clear across the same to Kentucky. This is regarded by White, Orton’s biographer, as the masterpiece of Doctor Orton’s purely geological work, although his contributions to the geology of petroleum and natural gas in the~ sixth volume, 1888, are of almost equal importance.
Orton’s work during his whole life was largely of an economic character, the more important and comprehensive publications being Volumes V (1884) and VI (1888) on the Economic Geology of Ohio, his Report on Petroleum and Gas in Ohio (1890), and the Report on the Occurrence of Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Asphalt Rock in Western Kentucky (1891). He also had an important paper on the Trenton limestone as a source of petroleum and inflammable gas in Ohio and Indiana, in the Eighth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey (1886-87). Aside from his record as president of the university and a teacher, Orton will be best remembered for his work on the subjects of gas and petroleum, although in his report on the third geological district he makes important observations on the Cincinnati uplift or axis, showing it to have been a slow and gradual formation resulting in a gentle flexure in the earth’s crust involving the Lower and Upper Silurian and, to some extent, the Devonian formations of the State. In his own words, his conclusions were as follows:
First, the Cincinnati axis in southern Ohio was raised above the sea at the end of the blue limestone period, or certainly early in the history of the Clinton epoch. Second, it underwent various oscillations, but the elevatory movements succeeded those of depression. Third, the rate of movement was exceedingly slow.
His views on the glacial period, expressed briefly and in his own words, were as follows:
The following threefold divisions of glacial time may be considered as demonstrated: First, an age of general elevation of northern land accompanied by intense cold and the formation of extensive continental glaciers. Second, a general depression of the land with the return of a milder climate. Third, a partial reelevation of the land and a partial return of the cold climate, producing iocal glaciers and icebergs.
Orton was born in Delaware County, New York, and educated at Hamilton College, graduating in 1850. He subsequently studied at Harvard and then entered the Andover Theological Seminary, being licensed to preach in 1855, and soon after ordained as pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Downsville, Delaware County, New York. He resigned this position in order that he might accept that

<<<Page: 621>>>

um, 1904.—Merri
Report of U. S. National Mus
at SN ae
tate Geologist of Ohio.
y, and
iversit
tate Un
oy sy,
or of Geolos
Profess

<<<Page: 622>>>



<<<Page: 623>>>

of professor of natural sciences in the New York State Normal School at Albany. Becoming convinced, however, that his gradually changing views on religious matters were such that he Sketch of Orton. could not conscientiously continue to hold this position, he resigned it, and accepted the principalship
of an academy at Chester, in Orange County, the same State.
In 1865 he became principal of the preparatory department of Antioch College in Ohio, then professor of natural sciences, and afterwards president of the same institution.
His active work as a geologist received its first recognition in 1869, when he was appointed Newberry’s assistant. In 1873 he was made president of the new Agricultural and Mechanical College, founded under the Morrill act, and also took charge of the chair of geology in the same institution. Under his efficient administration, which lasted until 1881, the institution prospered and finally developed into the Ohio State University.
In 188%, after his voluntary retirement from the State University, the geological survey was organized and Orton made State geologist, a position he continued to hela until the time of his death in 1899.
Orton belonged to the generation beginning work immediately after the civil war and, according to his biographer, always leaned toward the application of the science to the benefit of his fellow men. ‘‘ He was painstaking and exact in observation, scrupulous in statement, ‘autious in speculation.” He was one of the first to recognize the possibility of the exhaustion of the supply of petroleum and natural gas, and to issue appeals to the people of Ohio, urging care in husbanding their resources. But these were not received in the spirit in which they were offered, and he had the melancholy satisfaction of seeing his forebodings justified by the event.
By those who knew hina Orton will be remembered as always a man of perfect courtesy, dignified, a little stately, and never effusive. His life was full of considerate and helpful kindness —modest and retiring to an unusual degree, and yet one of the few men to whom honors come notwithstanding. In 1891 he suffered from a paralytic stroke which cost him the entire loss of the use of the left hand, yet he continued to teach and to work until almost the last hour of his life. For eight years he had looked upon death as a thing momentarily to be expected. He met it bravely, cheerfully, and fearlessly on October 10, 1899.
In 1869 the fourth attempt at a systematic geological survey of Indiana was made, the appointment as State geologist going this time to EK. T. Cox, heretofore known to geological fame only oer his work while assistant to Owen in Kentucky and Arkansas in 1856-1860.
Annual reports were issued for each of the ten years which marked the life of this survey. Those of 1869 and 1872 were accompanied

<<<Page: 624>>>

by county maps, though no geological map of the State in its entirety
was furnished. A colored section across the State from Greencastle to Terre Haute accompanied the report for 1869.
Cox was assisted during the entire or a part of the time by Frank H.
Bradley, Rufus Haymond, G. M. Levette, B. C. Hobbs, R. B. Warder,
W. W. Borden, M. N. Elrod, John Collett, and E. S.
Tadiana ise0-18s70, McIntire, the fossil flora being described by Leo Les-
: quereux and the fauna of Wyandotte Cave by E. D.
Cope. Zoological and botanical subjects were treated by D. 8. Jordan, J. M. Coulter, and J. Schenk.
These reports as a whole contained little new or impressive. In the eighth, which was the most comprehensive thus far issued, Cox himself called attention to the fact that the geological history of the State ‘‘appears tame and devoid of the marvelous. interest which attaches to many other regions, and that there is not a single true fault or upward or downward break or displacement of the strata thus far discovered.” The oldest rocks of the State were found in the southern portion, extending from the Ohio River near the mouth of Fourteen Mile Creek to the eastern boundary line. These are the so-called Hudson River rocks of Hall, which Cox correlated with Safford’s Nashville group, and which Worthen and Meek had included under the name of Cincinuati group. He regarded the Silurian strata as uplifted, not by a local disturbance, but ‘* by an elevating force that acted very slowly and extending over the entire central area . of the United States.” The seat of greatest force, he thought, however, was not limited to southwestern Ohio, but was to be looked for in Kentucky.
Cox accepted the general theory of glacial drift as at present understood, and conceived that the climatic changes might be due to the relative position of land and water, possibly a change in the course of the Gulf Stream. He could find no evidence of a subsidence of the land to terminate the glacial period, nor could he find in Ohio, Indiana, or Illinois anything to militate against the commencement of a glacial period in Tertiary times and its continuation— :
Fig. 83.—Edward Travers Cox.
until brought to a close by its own erosive force, aided by atmospheric and meteorological conditions. By these combined agencies acting through time the mountain home of the glacier was cut down and a general leveling of the land took place. This suggestion that the glacial epoch worked out its own destrucetion through a process of leveling, whereby the altitudes which gave it birth were so far reduced that glaciers could no longer exist, is unique and, so far as the present writer is aware, original with Cox.

<<<Page: 625>>>

Upon the recommendation of Logan, Dr. A. R. C. Selwyn, an Englishman, for several years connected with the geological survey of Great Britain under De la Beche, and from 1852 until 1869 director of eae the geologicalsurvey of Victoria, Australia, was, upon OE ie ele the retirement of the first named, made director of the geological survey of Canada. In this capacity Selwyn served for twenty-five years, or until 1894. He was assisted by H. H. Ami, Elkanah Billings, and J. F. Whiteaves, paleontologists; Robert Bell, George M. Dawson, James Richardson, and J. B. Tyrrell, geologists, and B. J. Harrington and T. Sterry Hunt, chemists. With this efficient corps the work of the survey was pushed vigorously, but, extending as it did beyond the time limits laid down for this sketch, it can be touched upon but briefly.
During the period of his administration twenty large annual reports were issued and nine yolumes on paleontology and _ paleobotany. The work of the survey was pushed westward as far as British Columbia, and though ever with economic ends in view, much was accomplished in the way of pure science. The gold fields of Nova Scotia | were investigated and the silver deposits of Fic. 84.—Alfred Richard Cecil Thunder Bay, on Lake Superior. The oe stratigraphic problems involved in Logan’s ‘* Quebec group” also received attention. His aim from the start, as stated by one of his biographers, was to make the survey an eminently practical department in which the records of the mines and mineral statistics should be kept for the use of both the Parliament and the public.
Selwyn is pictured to us as a scholar of rare ability, social, amiable, and chivalrous in private life, but a strict disciplinarian; tall, eraceful, quick, and alert, of a rather highstrung and nervous disposition, and with a keen and observant eye. His bibliography consists mainly of short papers and summaries published in connection with his official reports.

<<<Page: 626>>>



<<<Page: 627>>>

CpEASE hae Vell
The period of the civil war had brought to light a considerable number of men for whom the piping times of peace, even when varied by Indian outbreaks in the West, afforded insufficient opportunities. They were men in whom the times had developed a power of organization and command. They were, moreover, men of courage to the point of daring, It was but natural, therefore, particularly when the necessity for military routes in the West and public land questions were taken into consideration, that such should turn their attention toward western exploration. Further, the surveys made in the third decade, in connection with routes for the Pacific railroads, and the work done by Evans, Hayden, and Meek inthe Bad Lands of the Missouril, had whetted the desires of numerous investigators. Willing workers were abundant and Congress not dificult to persuade into granting the necessary funds. Hence expedition after expedition was organized and sent out, some purely military, some military and geographic, with geology only incidental, and others for the avowed purpose of geological research.
Under such conditions was inaugurated the work which culminated, in 1879, in the organization of the present U.S. Geological Survey, which, for breadth of scope and financial resources, is without counterpart in the world’s history of science.
The more important of the expeditions above referred to, as will be seen, were Hayden’s Geological Surveys of the Territories; King’s Geological Survey of the Fortieth Parallel; Powell’s Surveys of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado and adjacent regions; and Wheeler’s Geographical Surveys West of the One-hundredth Meridian.
These expeditions demanded men in the prime of life and bodily vigor—men who could endure exposure and fatigue and, if necessary, face danger. It is a natural consequence that there should be found among the workers many names and faces which have not heretofore appeared in our chronicles. Among those who appear now, if not for the first time, at least for the first time prominently, mention may be made of C. EK. Dutton, S. F. Emmons, G. K. Gilbert, Arnold Hague, W. H. Holmes, Clarence King, O. C. Marsh, A. R. Marvine, A. C. Peale, J. W. Powell, I. C. Russell, Orestes St. John, J. J. Stevenson, and R. P. Whitfield.

<<<Page: 628>>>

Although this was a period of great activity on the part of the General Government, State and provincial governments were by no means quiescent. Important work was being done by T. C. Chamberlin in Wisconsin, J. W. Dawson in Nova Scotia, W. C. Kerr in North Carolina, Eugene A. Smith in Alabama, and J. D. Whitney in California. There were also organizeda second geological survey of Pennsylvania, with J. P. Lesley at its head, and a geological and natural history survey of Minnesota, under N. H. Winchell. Both of these lastnamed organizations continued their work beyond the period of the limit set for this history. An attempt at establishing a geological survey of Georgia in 1874 resulted in the appointment of George Little as State geologist and the subsequent issuance of two reports comprising altogether but 52 pages. In 1870 (7) John Murrish was appointed by Governor Lucius Fair-
Fic. 85.—George Little.
child, of Wisconsin, commissioner of the survey of the lead district of ,
that State. Murrish was, according to his own statement, ‘‘a practical man” and had served an apprenticeship in the mines Wie e707 ©«of Cornwall, going through the regular course of practical training for a miner’s occupation and a miner’s life. Under these conditions, it is perhaps scarcely just to compare his writings with those of men who have had better opportunities and training. Nevertheless, as he had to do with the survey of an important mining region, it is impossible to ignore the work here. Under the title of Report of the Geological Survey of the Lead Regions, Murrish published his observations in the form of a pamphlet of 65 pages, in which he set forth his views of the various geological phenomena. He thought to have discovered that the lead-bearing fissures were grouped into ranges, the various ranges forming themselves into four well-defined belts running parallel to each other. The lead veins, according to his theories, occurred along the elevation of the land running ina generally north-and-south direction, the elevation itself being ‘‘a line of physical disturbance.” Concerning the character of this physical disturbance he was not perfectly clear, but he did not regard it as due to an active volcanic disturbance nor earthquakes in the ordinary meaning of the terms.
Fie. 86.—John Murrish.
© le

<<<Page: 629>>>

He described sink holes and what are evidently stylolites, the true character of which he did not recognize, but regarded as doubtless due to the same physical disturbances. The elevation referred to and the belts of mineral land in the district were formed, he conceived, from groups of fissures or faults in the Plutonic and Azoic rocks beneath, which were themselves produced by mechanical forces evidently generated by internal heat. Water entering between the beds would percolate downward through these lines of fracture, where it would come in contact with intensely heated matter under a pressure of several hundred feet of overlying rock. If the temperature was sufficient the water would be converted into steam or elastic vapor, which might possess suflicient mechanical power to bring about the elevation. During the early formation of the stratitied rocks, particularly the Potsdam sandstone, the resistance to this expansive force would be comparatively little, since yent for the steam would be easily found through the loosely accumulated sand; but as layer after layer was added to the strata and the more compact limestone began to form and harden above it, resistance would increase until to overcome it a general lifting of the strata would take place, by which escape would be effected through fissures in the rock along the line of those original faults in the Plutonic rocks below.
A microscopic examination of the sand grains from the disintegrated Potsdam sandstone haying revealed the crystalline nature of the granules, due, as we now know, to the deposition of interstitial silica, he conceived, as did Whitney (p. 469), that the entire deposit was of chemical origin.
Supposing Iceland should be submerged to a considerable depth beneath the ocean, and those plains situated about 30 miles from that noted voleano Heecla, known now to be full of heated springs, steaming fissures, and boiling geysers, whose waters hold a large amount of silica in solution that is now being deposited on the surface around those places, were pouring their waters into the ocean aboye, should we not have there on a small scale what perhaps existed on a very large scale during our sandstone formation?
Perhaps so. Who shall say ‘
Like many men of slight training, Murrish failed to give proper weight to the evidence gathered and was led into many errors, the most serious of which was that of assuming that the Lower Magnesian limestone might prove to be an ore-bearing stratum—this in spite of the opinion to the contrary held by Hall, Whitney, and others.
During the summer of 1870 O. C. Marsh, professor of paleontology in Yale College, began a series of scientific expeditions into the western
part of the United States, having for his primary object avctitionisyo, the collection of vertebrate fossil remains. The results
of these expeditions soon placed Marsh among the leading vertebrate paleontologists of the world.

<<<Page: 630>>>

The Middle West, it should be remembered, was at that time an almost unknown territory, traversed by but a single railroad (the Union Pacific), and much of it rendered unsafe for the white man through roving bands of Indians, necessitating military escort in many instances.
The first expedition explored the Pliocene deposits of Bishan the Miocene of northern Colorado, and the Eocene of the Bridger Basin in Wyoming and the Uinta Basin of Utah. These expeditions were supported largely at Professor Marsh’s private expense, until. the organization in 1879 of the U. S. Geological Survey under Powell, shortly after which Marsh was appointed a United States Flepareien gist, though still drawing upon his own resources when necessary or when, in his opinion, it became advisable in order that new discoveries at become immediately available.
Under these joint agencies there was brought together the mass of material now forming the vertebrate collections at Yale University and the extensive Marsh collection in the National Museum in Washington, which has formed the basis for the numerous monographs and papers included in Marsh’s extensive bibliography.
The most noted of his early discoveries was that of the toothed birds, Odontornithes (Hesperornis and Ichthyornis), which formed the basis of a monograph published in 1880. Based on later discoveries were his monographs on the Dinocerata and the Fr¢. 87.—Othniel Charles Marsh. @Xtraordinary dinosauria, of which the
Anchisaurus, Brontosaurus, Laosaurus, Ceratosaurus, Camptosaurus, Stegosaurus, Claosaurus, and Triceratops are the best known representatives.
Marsh’s connection with the United States Survey continued up to the time of his death, which took place in March, 1899, and much of his work lay beyond the time limits of this history
In 1870 again the legislature of Missouri passed an act for the establishment of a mining bureau, the board of control of which was to be composed of the governor and nine members, one from each Con-
gressional district. Upon this board was conferred Mei tsyo, ——sthe: power of appointing a State geologist, the choice for which fell upon Albert Hager, of Vermont.
Hager’s term of service was, however, short, and but one report of progress published, owing to a disagreement with the board. This report dealt largely with the condition of the survey at the time he took charge. It would appear that, since the suspension of Swallow’s

<<<Page: 631>>>

survey in 1861, the collections and other materials, the property of the survey, had been stored in the University building at Columbia, which was at one time in the possession of armed troops, and the materials suffered accordingly, as would naturally be expected. He found, however, reports of B. F. Shumard made during the work of Swallow’s survey, in a fairly complete condition. These were on the counties of Crawford, Clark, Cape Girardeau, Phelps, Ste. Genevieve, Ozark, Douglas, Perry, Jefferson, Laclede, Pulaski, and Wright. The reports of Swallow and Meek were also in a satisfactory condition. It is stated, too, that he obtained much material relating to the former surveys from Shumard and Swallow, with apparently the intention of editing their notes and publishing them. So far as known, however, nothing was done, and on March 18 the law governing the bureau was amended. Dr. J.G. Norwood, who with Dr. C. M. Litton had been one of Hager’s assistants, remained temporarily in charge of the affairs of the survey from September 1, 1871, until November of the same year, when R. Pumpelly was placed at the head of the organization. Norwood, during his brief period of authority, was assisted by G. C. Broadhead and C. M. Litton.
Under the management of Pumpelly there were issued in 1873 two volumes of reports, the first a royal octavo of 325 pages which contained all of the **previously unpublished material” that had been
transmitted to him by earlier workers on the geological reece, is71-7 Survey of Missouri. This comprised the reports of
Broadhead, Meek, and Shumard, and contained eight geological maps of counties and numerous sections.
In this same year there was published, also under the supervision of Pumpelly, a preliminary report on the iron ores and coal fields, forming a volume of 440 pages and 190 illustrations in the text, with a large folio atlas of 15 sheets. Pumpelly was assisted in the preparation of this work by G. C. Broadhead, W. B. Potter, Adolph Schmidt, and C. J. Norwood as geologists; and Regis Chauvenet, chemist. Other assistance was rendered by W. E. Guy, J. R. Gage, and Jackson Leonard.
In the report on the iron and coal, Pumpelly seems directly responsible only for the ideas advanced in the first 28 pages. It is worthy of note that even at this late date Pumpelly seems to have regarded the porphyries of Pilot Knob and adjacent regions as sedimentary rocks. He wrote:
The porphyries are older than the Silurian and belong to the Archean (Azoic) formation of which they may be the youngest member in Missouri. * * * They are stratified on an immense scale, but owing to the rarity of interstratified beds of
other rocks the unraveling of the internal structure of the district is a difficult problem. 5

<<<Page: 632>>>

The porphyry hills, like Pilot Knob and others, he regarded as Azoic rocks, the exposed portions of the skeleton of the eastern part of the Ozark range, rising from 300 to 1,800 feet above the level of the surrounding country. ‘‘They form an archipelago of islands in the Lower Silurian strata, which surround them as a whole and separate them from each other.” The rocks overlying these he regarded as belonging to the oldest members of the Silurian, and thought that they might be the deep-seated equivalents of the Potsdam sandstone, or even older.
The region of these porphyries, as well as the Ozark range in general throughout Missouri, had, in his opinion, apparently been above the level of the sea from a very early period (perhaps since the Carboniferous and Silurian) to the present time.
He recognized the fact that the surface ore at Iron Mountain was a residuary product resulting from the disintegration and gradual removal of the siliceous rocks in which the iron ore was originally embedded, the instance offering, as he stated, an extreme case where decomposition of the porphyry in mass facilitated the separation of the ore from the rock and the mechanical removal of the latter.
Concerning the ultimate origin of the iron, Pumpelly was silent. Regarding the origin of the manganese ore as at Cuthbertsons Hill, in township 33, he wrote:
It would seem that we have in these occurrences instances of replacement, but it is difficult to imagine a direct substitution of manganese oxides for the decomposition products of a porphyry, and all the more so in this case from the fact that the analysis shows the remaining porphyry, which is intimately associated with the ore, to have its normal constitution.
He further described what he called a metaphoric limestone at Hufts, near Ackhursts, as— nearly wholly changed into a porphyry or jasper rock, it having here a schistoid structure in which the alternate laminze are impure, compact carbonate of lime. * * * Here is a member of the porphyry series which was originally, unquestionably, a limestone, but in which the original physical and chemical characteristics have almost wholly disappeared. It should not seem impossible that the manganiferous rocks which have been described may have had a similar origin, and that the manganese and iron oxides owe their present existence to a former replacement of the lime-carbonate by iron and manganese salts. The porphyry which now surrounds these ores may be due to a previous, contemporaneous, or subsequent replacement of the lime-carbonate by silica and silicates.
A **may be” to which few would assent at this date.
A general discussion of the iron ores and their distribution was comprised in the report of Mr. Chauvenet, which occupied 192 pages of the entire volume. According to this writer the ores of Iron Mountain are due to deposition from solution in water which filtered into fissures. Adolph Schmidt regarded these same ores as replacement products and attempted to explain their formation as follows:. When a solution of sulphate or chloride of iron containing also carbonic acid

<<<Page: 633>>>

remains for any length of time in contact with a porphyry the latter will become decomposed, the alkalies being set free in the form of carbonates. The carbonates, reacting on the iron-bearing solutions, will precipitate the iron as oxides, which will fill the pores in the porphyry made by the removal of the alkalies. The silica set free in the process would be to some extent removed, but most of it would remain. The silicate of alumina would be decomposed by bicarbonate of iron in solution and removed in the form of a soluble bisilicate, as explained by Bischoff. It is needless to say that these views were not generally accepted.
Next to-Owen’s Key to the Geology of the Globe, I know of no more extraordinary publication relating to American geology than
that of the artist George Catlin, entitled The Lifted and Subsided
| Rocks of America, with their Influences on the Oceanic,
Guanes ts. Atmospheric, and Land Currents, which was published in London in 1870.
One can forgive any amount of ignorance relating to the subject of geology in a man of Catlin’s profession, but it is not so easy to forgive him for putting before an indiscriminating public opinions which are founded on wholly insufficient, and in many cases visionary, data.
Catlin had traveled extensively throughout the western portions of North America and naturally had been attracted by the enormous amount of erosion and uplift manifest in a treeless area. That his thoughts should have been turned in this direction is not at all strange, but his conclusions are such as can be accounted for only on the grounds that he had received absolutely no training, had not learned how to observe, nor how to reason from that which he saw.
The most striking features of the work are those relating to the vause of the Gulf Stream and the origin of the Gulf of Mexico. He conceived that from both North and South America there issued two large subterranean streams of water, one flowing from the north to the south under the main axis of the Rocky Mountains, and the other in an opposite direction along the main axis of the Andes. These becoming heated through proximity to the voleanic fires in the region of the equator, finally issued, giving the necessary volume and temperature to account for the Gulf Stream.
The origin of the gulf itself he imagined to be due to an undermining of the crust of the earth and its subsequent falling in, through the solvent action of the heated water, and he figures the continent both before and after the catastrophe.“
« Catlin’s book was noticed in the American Journal of Science, L, 1870, and dismissed with the following curt remark: ‘‘The writer of this work, well known for his travels among the American Indians, here treats of mountain drainage, upheavals, metamorphism, making of mountain chains, sinking of mountains, and of the Indian races of America. He presents his geological views and criticisms with great positiveness, which is consistent with the fact of his limited knowledge of the subject.”

<<<Page: 634>>>

In 1871, Dr. F. V. Hopkins, professor of geology, chemistry, and mineralogy in the State University of Louisiana, issued a report on the geology of the State, relating particularly to the post-Tertiary ee touae deposits, and containing also a colored geological map. Seabey iE ouslans, These deposits he divided into (1) Drift, (2) Port
Hudson (so-called by Hilgard), (8) the Loess, and (4) the Yellow Loam, the last three being included also under the general name of Bluff Formation.
Hopkins held (and Dana approved) that the Port Hudson and overlying beds were deposited when the land was ata lower level than now, and that the loess was the accumulation over an old flood plain of the Mississippi, as suggested by Lyell. The drift itself, however, he conceived to be due to the agency of icebergs in a sea at least 1,159 feet deep in the Ohio Valley. To this last view Dana, of course, objected.
In 1872 the subject of the formation of the great features of the sarth’s surface, including, of course, the formation of mountains, was brought up once more by Joseph Le Conte, then professor of geology peers Fen es and natural history in the University of California. Noein In a series of articles in the American Journal of Sei-
ence for this year he reviewed the ideas of Humboldt and others; discussed the probable condition of the earth’s interior, whether fluidal or otherwise; and announced himself as convinced that the whole theory of igneous agencies, which formed the foundation of theoretic geology, should be reconstructed on the basis of a solid earth.
On the assumption that such an earth would be not homogeneous, but that some areas would possess greater conductivity than others and would, therefore, cool and contract more rapidly in a radial direection, he affirmed that the present sea bottoms represented the areas of most, and the continents and mountain ranges those of less, rapid cooling and contraction. This he felt was borne out by the researches of physicists who had shown that the continental masses were less: dense than suboceanic matter.
To him the cooling earth might be regarded as composed of concentric isothermal shells, each cooling by conduction. The exterior being the first to cool and solidify, would, through the shrinking away of the still cooling interior, become subjected to powerful horizontal pressure or thrust, which as time went on would find relief in the direction of least resistance (i. e., upward) and along lines of weakness. It was, however, his idea that this yielding was not by upbending into an arch, but by a mashing or crushing together horizontally like dough or plastic clay, with more or less folding of the strata and an upswelling or thickening of the whole squeezed mass.

<<<Page: 635>>>

He showed that, were a mass of sediments 10,000 feet in thickness subjected to horizontal pressure and crushing sufficient to develop well-marked cleavage structure, a breadth of 23 miles would be crushed into 1 mile, and 10,000 feet thickness would be swelled to 25,000, making an actual elevation of the surface of 15,000 feet. He, therefore, felt justified in asserting that the phenomena of plication and of slaty cleavage demonstrated a crushing together horizontally and an upswelling of the whole mass of sediments, the upswelling produced by this cause alone being sufficient to account for the elevation of the greatest mountain chains.
Hall’s theory, previously noted (p. 499), he regarded as wholly failing to explain the actual process by which the chains had been formed; and, taking into account the breadth of the Appalachians (at least 100 miles), he showed that the gentleness of the supposed convex curve of Hall would not produce the amount of crushing necessary for the formation of the immense plication.
Moreover, he pointed out the fact that sedimentation and subsidence were going on together, and, therefore, that the upper surface was probably never convex at all, but nearly or quite horizontal all the time. Subsidence under such conditions might produce horizontal tension or stretching of the lower strata, but could not produce the crushing and plication of the upper.
To Whitney’s idea that plication was the result of the subsidence of a mountain axis he likewise took exception, and contended that chains and ranges were, beyond question, produced by horizontal thrust, crushing together the whole rock mass and swelling it up vertically, this thrust being the necessary result of secular contraction of the interior of the earth. In other words, ‘* mountain chains are formed by the mashing together and upswelling of sea bottoms where immense thicknesses of sediments have accumulated, and as the greatest accumulations usually take place off the shores of continents mountains are usually formed by the uppressing of marginal sea bottoms.” The submarine ridges and hollows shown by the soundings of the Coast Survey to exist along the course of the Gulf stream, extending from the point of Florida to the coast of New England, he felt might be true submarine mountain ranges now in course of formation by the processes already described.
Referring to the subject of metamorphism of rocks, as shown in mountain chains, he argued as follows: Supposing sediments accumulating along the shores of a continent. The first effect is lithification, and, therefore, increasing density, causing contraction and subsidence pari passu with the deposit. Next, if the sedimentation continue, aqueo-igneous softening or even melting would follow, not only of the lower portions of the sediments themselves, but of the underlying strata

<<<Page: 636>>>

upon which they were deposited. Finally, this softening would be sufficient to cause a yielding to horizontal pressure along the line, and a consequent upswelling of the line into a chain. Even the granitic axes of mountain ranges might, he thought, in most cases be but the lowermost, and, therefore, most highly metamorphosed portions of the squeezed mass, exposed by erosion.
He agreed with Richthofen and Whitney that the great masses of lava, often constituting the chief bulk of mountain chains, had not come from craters but from fissure eruptions, and that volcanoes are themselves only secondary phenomena, produced by the access of meteoric water to the still hot interior portions. He did not, however, agree with them in assuming that this fluidal mass was a part of a universally incandescent liquid interior, but rather a submountain reservoir locally formed. He felt that this theory, while not dependent upon, was powerfully supported by, the views of Rose, Bischoff, and others as to the metamorphic origin of granite and other igneous rocks, a view which regarded the surface materials as having passed by perpetual cycles through all the stages of rocks and soils—igneous rocks disintegrated to soils carried away and deposited as sediments; consolidated into stratified rocks; metamorphosed into gneiss, granite, or even lavas; to be again, after eruption, reconverted into soils, and recommence the same eternal round.
In furtherance of these same views, Le Conte in 1876 gave, in the American Journal of Science, the results of observations made in the Coast Range Mountains of California along the line of the Central Pacific Railroad. He found the largely unaltered rocks here thrown into a series of anticlines and synclines with angles of dip varying from 65° to 70°. From this he estimated that the original matter as deposited on a sea bottom must, in the building of the range, have been crushed from a breadth or width of 15 to 18 miles into 6 miles, with a corresponding upswelling of the whole mass. In 1878 Le Conte had another paper in the same journal on the same subject, in which he argued that mountain ranges are always formed by horizontal pressure, and that this pressure on a large scale could be produced only by the interior contraction of the earth. To overcome the objections raised by some to this theory to the effect that interior contraction could not concentrate its manifest results along certain lines without such a slipping and shearing as is impossible in a solid earth, he conceived the presence of a solid nucleus and a solid crust separated by a zone of fused or semifused matter. To an objection that contraction based upon shrinkage alone was inadequate to produce the evident results, he argued that there might be other causes, such as loss of water in form of vapor by voleanic action, and still others concerning which as yet nothing was known. His theory of origin, as he here summed it up, consisted of three stages: (1) A stage

<<<Page: 637>>>

of preparation by sedimentation; (2) a stage of yielding by horizontal pressure; and (3) a stage of erosion or mountain decay.
Le Conte was born in Liberty County, Georgia, February 26, 1823, ‘and grew to manhood under influences of ease and enjoyment such as have fallen to the lot of few American geologists. Educated as a
physician, he early gave up practice and in 1850 reSketch of LeConte. moved to Cambridge, in Massachusetts, to become a
student of Agassiz. In less than two years he, however, returned to Georgia, where he became professor of natural science at Oglethorpe University. His stay here was brief. In December, 1852, he became attached to the University of Georgia, at Athens, and, in 1856, professor of chemistry and geology in South Carolina College, at Columbia. Here he remained, enduring the vicissitudes of the civil war, but abandoned his beloved South in 1869 (at a period when men of his type were most needed) to become professor of geology, zoology, and botany in the University of California, at Berkeley. Here he remained until his death, in 1902.
In 1866 E. W. Hilgard, at the suggestion of Professor Henry, of the Smithsonian Institution, visited the salt deposits of Petite BS enc Islands and published the aes results of his obser vations
in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge in 1872, under the title On the Geology of Lower Louisiana and the Salt Deposits of Petite Anse.
As was to be expected, Hilgard differed completely with Thomassy, whose work has been noted, and who, it will be remembered, regarded the island as of voleanic origin. On the contrary, the island, and others of the group, were regarded as Cretaceous outliers, with cappings of drift and other alluvial matter, the salt beds themselves being of Cretaceous age.
Both Hilgard and Thomassy believed the sand and shingle detritus covering a large portion of the States bordering on the lower Mississippi was due to a great flood, which might have resulted from the rapid melting of the northern glaciers. Referring to the belief expressed by some of the western geologists to the effect that the main body of the drift was due to floating icebergs on an inland sea, Hilgard conceived its northern limits to have been fixed by the ice barriers. Toward the east, southeast, and southwest it would be defined by the Allegheny, Cumberland, and Ozark ranges, the main outlet lying, doubtless, in the axis of the Mississippi Valley, the gap between the
NAT Mus 1904——36
Fic. 88.—Joseph Le Conte.

<<<Page: 638>>>

Ozark and Cumberland highlands not having been eroded to its present | level.
A sudden break in the lower portion of the barriers would, he argued, produce the phenomena as now observed, namely, the action of violent currents plowing up and redepositing the material of the more ancient formations, carrying down in the main channel rocks of high northern derivation, restratifying and otherwise modifying toward the end a good portion of the iceberg drift and, as the current diminished, covering over the coarse material with the Orange sand.
In 1873 W. C. Kerr, State geologist of North Carolina, published in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society a brief but suggestive paper on the possible influence of the earth’s rotation on Ea ee OS the deflection of rivers. He called attention to a fact Evcots of Harth’s)/) 50 obvious as to have been evident to the common
people of that State, that in both the Carolinas the eastward flowing rivers always presented high banks and bluffs on the south side and low plains and swamps on the north; also to the fact, owing to these topographical conditions, that the large towns and main roads were always on the south side also.
In seeking for a cause for this Kerr rejected the slow subsidence theory of Tuomey, and suggested that it was due rather to the rotation of the earth, coacting with the force of the river currents, and called in to sustain his opinions the law of motions as developed by Prot. W. Ferrel:
In whatever direction a body moves on the surface of the earth there is a force arising from the earth’s rotation which deflects it to the right in the northern, but to the left in the southern hemisphere.
Whether or not the application of this principle was original with Kerr, it is of course impossible to say. This, however, seems to have been its first application in America, though von Baer had suggested as early as 1860 like results in the case of north and south flowing rivers, as the Irtisch and the Volga of Russia.
Kerr’s final report on the geology of North Carolina, although presented in 1870, was not printed until 1875, owing to the parsimonious action of the State legislature, the public printer being allowed finally
to set it up only under condition that the work be Caring ta70 8" done in intervals of other work on the laws, documents, supreme. court reports, ete.
The report was accompanied by a colored geological map and three colored sections. The classification of the rocks adopted was as shown on next page.

<<<Page: 639>>>

The following scheme exhibits the progress of theoretical notions which have obtained at different times with regard to the classification of the formations—the age and horizon of the rocks in the State:
Mitchell, 1842. Emmons, 1856. Present, 1875. Postabliocene seecesee saa | Quaternary. . : Phocene 4 rtiary SAE ya ees eeiln mene ee eh tae es ake Miocene. : Tertiary Cana ie Tertiary MET OGETICG Perea peta’ pid cemoer: Sonne Tertiary. | WOCEN CICS ewe Create ne | Eocene. ssi SR, a Np or a ee ake SO es oe eS 5 3 Secondary ..---.) Tria Og ope = S258 Mitacea WIMP sernnit ca Tanepeeny espe Sere tps mines ey a at f int : Silurian? ansition .....T: PORNO 2 Oe ee te A SE eC Lah UO ae Su ses ; Transition aconic. Ficconiane : | [Gneiss AE EDS Cree ede aed ee aaa ae | Primitive. . 5 <2 ii Grira Ties beer Bee eS Spa an oe Ete SE |} Laurentian. | Syenite SEE RE et 5 ee | f
a Also partly Quaternary and partly Cretaceous.
This report gave a very fair summary of the knowledge of the geology of North Carolina up to date. The thin gravels overlying the eroded surfaces of the Eocene, Miocene, and Cretaceous in the astern part of the State were regarded as of glacial origin, the underlying rock being planed down by the currents and drifting ice which brought the bowlders from the Archean hills of Chatham. This idea is not, however, generally accepted, North Carolina being now universally recognized as far south of the glacial limit.
The gold-bearing gravels were looked upon as beds of till which had crept down the declivities of the hills and mountains, as glaciers descend Alpine valleys by successive freezing and thawing of the whole water-saturated mass, both gravitation and the expansion of freezing contributing to the downward movement. This is evidently the same idea as that later advanced by I. C. Russell in his description of the débris streams of Alaska.
Appendices attached contained a list and descriptions of the new genera and species of fossil shells, by T. A. Conrad, and the minerals of the State, by F. A. Genth. A chapter on corundum and its associated rocks, by C. D. Smith, is mainly of interest from the fact that Smith regarded the chrysolitic rocks as of igneous origin, a conclusion which for sometime was disputed, but to which later workers have returned.
Kerr was of Scotch-Irish descent, though born in North Carolina. His parents dying while he was quite young, he was adopted by a Rey. Dr. Caruthers, a Presbyterian minister, under whose instruction he was fitted for the State University at Chapel Hill, where he graduated in 1850 with highest honors. After graduation he taught school for a while at Williamstown in his native State, until elected to a pro

<<<Page: 640>>>

fessorship in Marshall University, Texas. This position he resigned — in 1852 to accept an appointment as computer in the — Sketch of Kerr: Nautical Almanac Office, then located at Cambridge, Massachusetts. While here he entered the Lawrence Sevientific School and studied under Agassiz, Gray, and the, chemist Horsford.
In 1857 he accepted a professorship at Davidson College in North Carolina, where he remained until 1865, though his active work ceased in 1862, owing to a falling off in income and students, incident to the civil war. From the latter part of 1862 to early in 1864 he was chemist and superintendent of the Mecklenburg Salt Works, near Charleston, South Carolina, but after the destruction of the works, returned to North Carolina, where he became nominally State geologist in 1864, though active work, owing to the confusion and disorganization of war, did not begin until 1866. :
It is safe to say that few men ever entered upon the work of a geological survey under more unfavorable auspices. He himself had had no extended experience, nor was he a trained specialist. Little money was available, the industries of the State paralyzed, and her social conditions disorganized, if not demoralized. The State had never a more genuine and sagaciously pubms| lic-spirited citizen than he, but the times
Fic. Aral eee Caruthers were evil, and for several years Professor
Kerr shared the fate of all public officials who were endeavoring to adjust, to reconcile, and to go forward. His motives were misrepresented, his character assailed, his abilities questioned, his work maligned. Yet in the face of all this, without good maps and with few roads, a great work was accomplished.
During one of the first years of the survey he traveled, mainly on horseback, 1,700 miles over mountainous country, with and without roads, and during the season of 1866 and 1867 not less than 4,000 miles. Work thus performed was from necessity largely in the nature of reconnaissance. The subjects of drainage and topography received a large share of attention, and.indeed a large part of his work was along physiographic lines, though by no means limited thereto. Agricultural and mineral resources were investigated and, so far as possible with the limited means at his command, advertised. His papers which attracted the most widespread attention were doubtless those relating to the action of frost on superficial materials and the unequal erosion of the banks of a stream, due to the earth’s rotation.

<<<Page: 641>>>

Kerr was a man of slight physique, and for the last ten or fifteen years of his life suffered from catarrh of the digestive organs. The funds available were too small to enable him to employ permanent assistants, either in the field or as clerk or amanuensis. Under these circumstances the amount of work accomplished was certainly remarkable.
He was an exceedingly liberal man—a man of generous temper and of large views. * * * He was deeply religious and always prominent, although in an unobtrusive way, in matters pertaining to the church. As a Christian gentleman, those who ~ have known him best have admired him most. His heart was warm and generous, his mind clear, active, and progressive, his conscience keen and inflexible. He was honest in every sense of the word. There was nothing of policy in his thought or action; on the contrary, he was frank and outspoken, at times even to a fault. (Holmes. )
In 1873 the legislature of Alabama passed an act reviving the survey, which had been discontinued after the death of Professor Tuomey, in 1857, and named Prof. Eugene A. Smith, of the University of Alabama, State geol-
ogist. This office Professor Subang ie73s, = Smith has continued to hold
down to the present time. Up to and including 1880 he had made five reports. These were given up mainly toa discussion of the geographic distribution of the various formations comprised within the State limits, with extensive notes regarding the economic possibilities of coal, iron, and other minerals of less importance.
In his report for 1875-76 he treated of the geology of Jones Valley and the Coosa Fie. 90.—Eugene Allen Smith. Valley region and announced the practical identity of the formations there found with those described by Professor Safford in Tennessee, recognizing the Ocoee, Chilhowee, Knox sandstone, shale and dolomite, and Lower and Upper Carboniferous. In those of 1877, 1878, and 1879 special reference was made to the Warrior coal fields and their probable value. Several colored county maps were given, but no geological map of the entire State.
in the spring of 1873 there was organized a second geological survey of Kentucky, with N. S. Shaler, then professor of paleontology at Harvard, chief geologist and director, and A. R. Crandall, P. N. Be i Geciowical Moore, C. J. Norwood, and J. R. Proctor, assistants. Survey of Kentucky, Dr. Robert Peter served as chemist. The organiza-
tion continued as above until 1880, when J. R. Proctor succeeded to the directorship through the resignation and reeommendation of Professor Shaler, the survey coming finaily to a close in 1891.

<<<Page: 642>>>

Up to 1880 five reports of progress were issued, dealing mainly with economic problems.
The plateau country drained by the Colorado River offers facilities for the study of geological problems such as are, perhaps, equaled nowhere else in the world. This is especially true with reference to SSL aa problems relating to stratigraphic succession, of uplift of the Grand Canyon, with a minimum amount of contortion of the beds, and
of erosion. The plateau nature of the country was recognized by Newberry while with the Ives expedition in 1860, and by Blake in connection with the Pacific Railroad surveys in 1856. It remained, however, for Powell, Gilbert, and Dutton to first bring out the salient features of the geology of the region and to work out the problems in a way that, to quote the words of Emmons“, has formed the starting point of modern physical geography. ;
In the summer of 1869, J. W. Powell, a retired officer of the Federal Army, made a boat trip down the Colorado, starting from Green River City on the Union Pacific Railroad May 24, and emerging from the mouth of the Black Canyon, nearly 900 miles below, on August 30 following—a journey that, to quote Emmons again, unequaled in the annals of geographical exploration for the courage and daring displayed in its execution.”
In his reports on these explorations, ? which were made and published under direction of the Smithsonian Institution, Powell ‘alled attention to the fact that the canyons are gorges of corrosion and due to the action of the river upon the rocks, which were undergoing a gradual elevation. As he expressed it, the river preserved its level, but the mountains were lifted up; as the saw revolves on a fixed pivot while the log through which it cuts is moved along. The river was the saw which cut the mountain in two. This is essentially the idea advanced by Hayden in 1872 in his report on the geology of Montana.
In this report Powell first made use of the expressions of antecedent and consequent valleys, meaning in the first instance that the drainage was established prior or antecedent to the corrugation of the beds by faulting and folding; and in the second case, thatthe valleys have directions which are dependent upon the corrugations. Valleys which were formed by streams, the present courses of which were deter-
Fre. 91.—John Wesley Powell.
« Presidential address, Geological Society of Washington, 1896. > Letter of transmittal dated June 16, 1874; publication in 1875.

<<<Page: 643>>>

mined by conditions not found in the rocks through which the channels are now carved, but which were in existence when the district last appeared above sea level, he called superimposed valleys.
In this same report, too, Powell made use for the first time of the term base level of erosion, which he detined as— an imaginary surface inclining slightly in all its parts toward the end of the principal stream draining the area through which the level is supposed to extend, or having the inclination of its parts varied in direction as determined by tributary streams.
He pointed out, further, that the region of the Grand Canyon was a.ter alla region of lesser rather than greater erosion; that had the country been favored with a rainfall equal to that of the Appalachian country, the entire area might have been reduced toa base level which would be the level of the sea, though the evidence of such erosion might be almost wholly obliterated.
J. P. Lesley, writing in 1874 on the iron ores of Spruce Creek, Warriors Mark Run, and Half Moon River, in Huntingdon and Center counties, Pennsylvania, took the ground that they were residual A ae deposits from the decomposition of ferriferous Lower Ores and Denudation, Silurian beds, which were at one time buried beneath
more than 16,000 feet of Upper Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous rocks, and had been subsequently exposed through decomposition and erosion.
At the end of the coal era the Middle States rose from the waves. * * * The edges of the Bellefonte fault stood as a mountain range as high as the Alps, and the backs of some of the great anticlinals of Pennsylvania must have formed plateaus then as high as Tibet and Bootan are now.
Erosion commenced and has continued through the Permian, Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary ages to the present day, and still goes on. The high plateau was gradually worn down to the present surface. Mountains once 30,000 or 40,000 feet high are now but 2,000 or 3,000 above sea level.
Such extreme views as to the possible height of mountain ranges are equaled among modern geologists only by those of Clarence King (p. 612).
In 1874 N. H. Winchell accompanied, as geologist, the party headed by Capt. W. Ludlow to the Black Hills of Dakota. His report, appearing in 1875, occupied pages 21 to 66 of the quarto volume issued,
and was accompanied by a geological map. Winchell the Black this, 1g74, recognized the occurrence of Cretaceous, Jurassic,
Triassic, Carboniferous, and Silurian (Potsdam) rocks, overlying schists and slates, into and through which granite had been intruded. He agreed in the main with Hayden’s observations, as given in his Second Annual Report (1868), though he failed to find evidence of the unbroken conformability of the fossiliferous formations. On the contrary, he mentioned the Red Beds as lying unconformably on the Carboniferous limestone.

<<<Page: 644>>>

George Bird Grinnell accompanied the expedition in the capacity of paleontologist, though the new species of invertebrate fossils found (Obolus pectenoides, Terebratula helena, and Lingulepis primeformis) were described and figured by R. P. Whitfield.
‘The presence of numerous bands of prospectors on the Indian reservations of the Black Hills, led there by the reported finding of gold by Custer’s and other expeditions, caused the National Government,
in 1875, to send ** trusty persons” to examine the region Work of Jenny and .
Newton in the and report to the Secretary of the Interior, in order.
Black Hills, 1875. Sah? nae: that a proper basis might be secured for future nego-
tiations with the Indians. The locality being then comprised in the Sioux Indian reservation, immediate direction of affairs was put in the hands of the Indian Bureau. Under this authorization W. P. Jenny was appointed to undertake the work, with Henry Newton as assistant. The party entered the region on the 3d of June, some 400 strong, a large military guard being esteemed necessary on account of the manifest discontent of the Indians, and returned to Fort Laramie on October 14, after an absence of four months and twenty days. <A preliminary report on the mineral resources of the Hills, accompanied by amap by VY. T. McGillyeuddy, the topographer, was submitted by Mr. Jenny and published in the report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for 1875. The complete report on the mineral resources, elimate, ete., with a preliminary map, was published in the form of an octavo pamphlet of 71 pages in 1876, and the final Report on the Geology and Resources of the Black Hills of Dakota, in form of a quarto volume of 566 pages, with large folio atlas, in 1880. This included, also, the previous reports on the mineral resources, noted above. Unfortunately, Doctor Newton, to whom was left the general geology of the region, died before his report was fully prepared for the press, the work being ably edited by G. K. Gilbert, and the volume issued as one of the monographs of the Powell survey.
The Black Hills region, it will be remembered, had already been touched upon and fragmentary surveys made by numerous parties, including Dr. John Evans in 1849 and 1853, Thaddeus Culbertson in 1850, Meek and Hayden in 1853, and Hayden, with the military expeditions of Harvey and Warren in 1855 and 1857, and with Captain Raynolds in 1859. Hayden again visited the region under the auspices of the Philadelphia Academy in 1866, and N. H. Winchell with Custer’s expedition in 1876, as just noted. Under all these conditions it is difficult to estimate the value of the work of Newton. Much that he stated in his report had already been made known by the authorities mentioned above. On the other hand, much that he might have had in mind to say has never appeared, owing to his untimely death.
The summary of Black Hills history, as given, shows an older Archean consisting of shales and sandstones over which, after an inter-

<<<Page: 645>>>

val of erosion and metamorphism, a newer Archean, consisting mainly of sandstones, was deposited, accompanied by abundant intrusions of granitic rock. Then followed the period in which these rocks were raised to a nearly vertical position, metamorphosed, and deeply eroded, after which the various Potsdam, Carboniferous, Red Bed, Jura, and Cretaceous deposits were conformably laid down. Then followed the uplift and subsequently the unconformable depositions of the White River Tertiaries upon their flanks. The date of the uplift is therefore set as the interval of time between the Cretaceous formation and the beginning of the Miocene Tertiary. (See under Hayden, p. 591.) Newton showed that the drainage from the Black Hills was consequent—that is, it conformed to the dip of the strata. This he conceived to be caused by the streams having acquired their direction during the uplift of the hills, or while they were being laid bare by the drainage of a lake. In either case the drainage is consequent upon the uplift. With the rivers—the Belle Fourche and the South Fork of the Cheyenne—the case is different, however. These cut across the
Se TD ee ee Be cae Bae nC ESSE a en a a wwe ee
e 5 i) / rar) [SRO ES RG
Fie. 92.—Ideal cross-section of the Black Hills. (After Henry Newton.)
The vertical scale is about six times the horizontal; the dotted lines indicate the portion of the uplift removed by erosion; 1, Archean slates and schists; 2, Granite; 3, Potsdam, resting unconformably on 1 and 2; 4, Carboniferous; 5, Red Beds, with included limestone; 6, Jura; 7, Cretaceous; 8, White River Tertiary, resting unconformably on 7.
uplifted strata in a way to show that the drainage is superimposed. If they existed prior to the deposition of the Tertiary sediments they were completely blotted out.
J. H. Caswell described the various metamorphic and eruptive rocks collected by the survey, his paper forming the second on the subject of micropetrography to appear from the Government press, Zirkel’s fortieth parallel report (1876) being the first. The report was accom-
. panied by two plates with eight colored figures illustrating microstructure and composition, and is of particular interest as giving the first authoritative account of the occurrence of the rock phonolite in the United States. Caswell, although one of the first in a new and fascinating field, seems to have rested on his laurels, content with the one effort, his name in geologic literature appearing here for the first and only time.
W. P. Jenny, to whem fell the economic work, reported gold occurring (1) in veins of quartz traversing Archean schists and slates; (2) in slate mineralized by waters depositing silica and iron pyrites; (8) in

<<<Page: 646>>>

the conglomerate forming the lower layer of the Potsdam sandstone — and derived from the Archean rocks; (4) in trachyte and porphyry intruded at the time of the elevation of the hills; (5) ‘tin deposits in the slates and sedimentary rocks produced by the intrusion of the trachyte and porphyry,” and (6) ‘*in placer gravels resulting from the decomposition and erosion of the above formations in Tertiary times.”
The quartz veins he did not regard as ‘‘true fissure veins,” but, as they occurred filling fissures between the lamelle of the schists formed in the process of the folding, were referred to as ‘‘interlaminated fissures.”
The fossils collected by this expedition were worked up by Whitfield while at Albany in 1876.
Under act approved March 18, 1873, a geological survey of Wisconsin was authorized, and I. A. Lapham appointed State geologist by the then acting governor, C. C. Washburn. Owing to an apparent oversight on the part
of Governor Washburn, Wain isye . Professor Lapham’s' name
was, however, not sent to the senate for approval, and an opportunity thereby offered for Governor Washburn’s successor, W. R. Taylor, to supersede him by Dr. O. W. Wight. So far as shown by public records, the transaction was purely political and not at all creditable to Govyernor Taylor.
Lapham therefore served but two years, during this time rendering two reports. These were not published independently, but subsequently formed the first 65 pages of the second volume of the reports of State geologist, T. C. Chamherlin. He was assisted by R. D. Irving, T. C. Chamberlin, and Moses Strong. The two reports referred to were naturally of a preliminary nature, designed to form the basis for future work. Lapham, perhaps even more than others of his time, was an all-round naturalist—a type not possible inthis day and generation. Beginning life as a stonecutter and afterwards a civil engineer, he yet found time to study and observe in nearly all branches of the sciences, and this, too, with remarkable accuracy. His first paper of a geological nature is said to have been prepared when he was but sixteen years of age, and was published in the American Journal of Science for 1828. This gave an account of the geology in the vicinity of the Louisville and Shippingport Canal, and was illustrated by a map and geological sections of a nature very creditable to a youth of his years.
His bibliography includes upward of fifty titles, embracing, besides geology, articles on climatology, archeology, botany, and cartogra-
Fig. 93.—Inecrease Allen Lapham.

<<<Page: 647>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1870-1879. Dik
phy. He is represented as a modest, patient, and industrious man, living more for the service of others than for his own aggrandizement. He died of heart trouble while alone on a lake near Oconomowoc, Wisconsin.
Lapham was succeeded, as above noted, by O. W. Wight, who served but one year (1875). His one report of progress was not published at the time, but was likewise included by Chamberlin in the second volume of the final reports, bearing date of 1877. It contained matter of little other than historical interest.
In February, 1876, Prof. T. C. Chamberlin was placed in charge of the State survey. The organization continued in existence until 1879, the final reports appearing in the form of four royal octavo volumes, ; dated, respectively, Vol. I, 1883; Vol. I, 1877; Vol. Chamberlin's Survey III, 1880, and Vol. IV, 1882, comprising altogether
3,035 pages.
The principal assistants on the survey were R. D. Irving, F. H. King, Moses Strong, EK. T. Sweet, J. D. Whitney, and L. C. Wooster. R. P. Whitfield served as paleontologist. Aside from acting as director of the survey, Chamberlin himself took charge of the geology of eastern Wisconsin, of which he described in considerable detail the hydrology, the soils, and the glacial drift. The so-called Kettle Range he believed to be in part moraines, and the kettle holes to be due mainly to the melting of masses of ice buried in the grayels. He discussed the economical value of the clays and shell marls of the region, and for the first time in America demonstrated the usefulness of the microscope in examinations of detrital rocks. In this connection he noted that a microscopic examination of the sand grains of the Potsdam sandstone was entirely fata! to the view still occasionally advanced to the effect that such were produced by crystallization from solution. He, in his turn, however, failed to recognize the possibility of the crystalline form of some of the granules being due to secondary enlargement (see pp. 469 and 553).
The oolitic iron ore lying between the Cincinnati shales and the Niagara limestone was thought to be undoubtedly a marine deposit laid down in detached basins. It was shown, further, that the three wellmarked classes of limestone occurring in the southeastern counties of Wisconsin graded into each other and were doubtless formed contemporaneously, the residual mounds or ridges being ancient coral reefs, while the granular sand rock was formed from calcareous sands
_ Fig. 94.—Thomas Crowdet Chamberlin.

<<<Page: 648>>>

derived by wave action from the reef, the compact strata being deeper quiet-water deposits of the same material.
Chamberlin also investigated the ore deposits of the southeastern part of the State, and discussed thoroughly the problems involved in the origin of the ores, disagreeing in many minor points with both Doctors Owen and Whitney. The crevices in which the ores occur he believed to have originated primarily in the folding of the rocks by lateral pressure. He pointed out that the ore beds occur mainly in basin-like depressions and argued that the ore material, originally in solution in sea water, was deposited contemporaneously with the limestone through the action of sulphureted vapors given off by the decomposition of organic matter, and that, after the elevation of the beds above sea level, percolating meteoric waters oxidized and dissolved the ore once more and carried it into the fissures above noted, where it was the second time precipitated as sulphides. Fourteenhundredths of 1 per cent of ore material disseminated throughout 100 feet in depth of the ore-bearing limestone would, he pointed out, be sufficient to have formed all the deposits as they now exist. He did not agree with Whitney in assuming that the oceanic waters of early geologic periods were richer in metallic salts than those of later data, instancing in support of his argument the fact that the ore-bearing beds were in many cases really poorer in organic matter than those which were nonmetalliferous and more ancient. This criticism did not, however, affect the general principle as laid down by Whitney. _ With his predecessors he doubted the probability of the existence of workable deposits of ore in the Lower Magnesian limestone.
Volume I of the reports of this survey was designed as a general treatise on the geology of the State, suited to the wants of explorers, _miners, landowners, and manufacturers. In this Chamberlin stated his belief that the original source of the Keweenawan copper ore was the igneous rocks, from whence it has been concentrated through the agency of permeating atmospheric waters. ‘To quote his own words, he believed—
First, that the metals, copper and silver, were primitively constituents of the rocks that were melted to produce the lavas which formed the trappean sheets of the formation; second, that they were brought up and spread out, commingled with the molten rock material; third, that they were chemically extracted thence by percolating waters and concentrated in the porous belts or fissures of the formation, giving rise to the exceptionally rich deposits for which the formation is famous; and fourth, that the surface disintegration of portions exposed in the latter part of the period yielded metallic ingredients to the adjacent sea, frem. whence they were extracted by organic agencies, giving rise to impregnated sediments, which, in turn, through subsequent concentrations, gave rise to other copper and silver deposits, among which are to be reckoned the later metallic horizons of the Lake Superior region and possibly elsewhere.
Naturally, the subject of the drift was treated in considerable detail: The Glacial period was divided into the Terrace or Fluviatile epoch,

<<<Page: 649>>>

Champlain or Lacustrine epoch, the Second Glacial epoch, interGlacial epoch, and first Glacial epoch. | This formal announcement. of the fact that there had been two distinct periods of glaciation was here made for the first time, although as noted on page 463, Prof. Edward Hitchcock had suggested its possibility as early as 1856. The law of flowage Chamberlin regarded as essentially similar to that of viscous fluids, in accordance with the observations of Agassiz, Forbes, Tyndall, and others. A later study of Greenland glaciers has caused him to change his views on this point.
Irving, as one of Chamberlin’s assistants, dwelt with great detail on the lithological character of the rocks in the regions surveyed by him, and his reports are notable for the beauty of the colored plates of thin sections, which were by far the best that had RE Ine) been prepared and published by an American up to
that date. He was assisted in this part of the work by C. R. Van Hise. He also described in some detail the glacial drift, and was the first to announce that the Kettle Range of central Wisconsin was a continuous terminal moraine.
Tn the third edition of his work on Acadian Geology, which appeared in 1878, Dawson returned once more to a vigorous discussion of the problems of the ice age, and to register again his opposition to the views eer generally held by American See geologists. Many of the
arguments used closely resembled those of his former papers and may be reviewed here for the last time. He regarded the phenomena of the bowlder clay and drift in eastern America as due to the action of local glaciers, drift ice, and the agency of cold northern currents. Against the theory of an universal glacier he again argued on the ground that such suppositions were not warranted by the facts. ‘*The temperate regions of North America could not be covered with a permanent mantle of ice under existing conditions of solar radiation; for, even if the whole were elevated into a table-land, its breadth would secure a sufficient summer heat to melt away the ice except from high mountain peaks.” For the supposition that such immense mountain chains existed and have disappeared, he found no warrant in geology, and for such an ‘‘ unexampled astronomical cause of refrigeration” as the earth’s passing into a colder portion of space, he found no evidence in astronomy. Against Frankland’s idea that glaciation was brought about through a higher temperature of the sea along with a lower temperature of the land, he instanced the actual colder
Fig. 95.—Roland Duer Irving.

<<<Page: 650>>>

condition of the sea, as shown by the fossils of that period. He agreed with Lyell in regarding the theory of the varying eccentricity of the earth as expounded by Croll as insufficient; moreover, it seemed to him physically impossible that a sheet of ice such as that supposed could moye over an uneven surface, striating it in directions uniform over vast areas and often different from the present inclination of the surface.
He was further influenced in his opinion by the work of Hopkins, who showed, apparently, that only the sliding motion of glaciers could polish or erode rock surfaces, and the internal changes in their mass—the result of weight—could have little or no effect. Glaciers, moreover, he argued could not have transported the bowlders great distances and lodged them upon the hilltops, and the universal glacier would, moreover, have no gathering ground for its materials. The huge feldspar bowlders from the Laurentide Hills, stranded at Montreal Mountain at a height of 600 feet above the sea and from 50 to 60 miles farther southwest, and which must have come from little, if any, greater elevation and from a direction nearly at right angles to that of the glacial strive, were against the ice-sheet theory, as were also the large bowlders scattered through the marine stratified clays and sands, and the occurrence of marine fossils in the lower part of the drift, in the true till near Portland and Cape Elizabeth, Maine, and at various points on the St. Lawrence in Canada. In the PostPliocene deposits of Canada he found evidence of a gradual elevation from a state of depression which may have amounted to more than 500 feet, while only the bowlder clay represents the previous subdivision, and only striations on the rocks indicate an ice-clad condition of the land. Both plant and animal life indicated to him that the conditions of temperature of the sea were not greatly different from those of to-day.
Referring to the direction of the striz, he found evidence such as led him to declare without hesitation that their direction is ** from the ocean toward the interior against the slope of the St. Lawrence Valley.” This, he felt, at once disposed of the glacial theory for the prevailing set of strize, since he could not suppose a glacier to move from the Atlantic up into the interior. On the other hand, he regarded it as eminently favorable to the idea of ocean drift. <A subsidence sufficient to convert the Canadian plains, New York, and New England into a sea would, he thought, cause the Arctic current to pour over the Laurentide rocks on the north side of Lake Superior and Lake Huron, cutting out the softer strata to form their beds, and drifting their materials to the southwest. The lower strata of the current would be diverted through the strait between the Adirondacks and Laurentide Hills, and, flowing over the ridge of hard rocks which connects them at the Thousand Islands, would cut out the long basins

<<<Page: 651>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1870-1879. bilo
of Lake Ontario, heaping up at the same time in the lea of the Laurentian ridge the great mass of bowlder clay which intervenes between Lake Ontario and Georgian Bay. Lake Erie and Lake Michigan were, he argued, cut out by similar currents. At times of obstruction of currents which produced the southwest striations, while the valleys of the Ottawa, Mohawk, Lake Champlain, and the Connecticut were arms of the sea, the currents would set along these arms, producing the northwest and southeast striations.
Local glaciation might prevail in high peaks, but the so-called moraines were to his mind shingle beaches and bars and old coast lines loaded with bowlders and ozars. The fiords on the coast, like the deep latera: valleys of mountains, were evidences of the action of waves and currents rather than those of ice.
The subsidence noted above, which would result in converting the plains of Canada, New York, and New England into seas and cause the Arctic current to flow over the submerged area from northeast to southwest, would produce a current which would move up a slope, and the ice which it bore would, therefore, tend to ground and grind the bottom as it passed into shallow water.“ . |
In the first edition (1855) of Acadian Geology the occurrence of the albertite deposits in the Lower Carboniferous rocks of New Brunswick received considerable attention. In the discussions there given relating to their origin, he concludes that the material belongs to the purest variety of bituminous coal, related to the pitch coals or jets. He admitted, however, that it had some claim to be considered a distinct mineral species intermediate between the coals and asphalts. At that time he regarded the deposit as having originated through the deposition of organic matter in fresh water, the deposit having since been very singularly distorted by mechanical pressure.
In the second edition of the work (1868) he, however, modified his expressed opinion, accepting the views of more recent explorers like Hitchcock, Bailey, and Hind, who had described the deposit as a vein
“To substantially these views Dawson held to the very last. In his Ice Age in Canada (1893) he is found still combating vigorously the idea that all northern Europe and America were covered by a mer de glace moving to the southward and outward to the sea, and which moved not only stones and clay to immense distances, but glaciated and striated the whole surface. The glacial theory of Agassiz and others he described as having grown until, ike the imaginary glaciers themselves, it overspread the whole earth. He adopted rather what he called the moderate view of Sir Roderick Murchison and Sir Charles Lyell, to the effect that Pleistocene subsidence and refrigeration produced a state of our continents in which the lower levels, and at certain periods even the tops of the higher hills, were submerged under water filled every season with heavy field ice formed on the surface of the sea, as at present in Smiths Sound, and also with abundant icebergs derived from glaciers descending from unsubmerged mountain districts. The later Pliocene, so far as Canada was concerned, he considered to be a period of continental elevation and probably ot temperate climate.

<<<Page: 652>>>

filled with bituminous matter. The source of the bituminous matter — he supposed to be the Lower Carboniferous shales. In his own words: | The deposit of the Albert mine would thus be a vein or fissure constituting an
ancient reservoir of petroleum which, by the loss of its more volatile parts and partial oxidation, has been hardened into a coaly substance.
He regarded the Nova Scotia gypsum beds as due to the alteration of beds of limestone by free sulphuric acid poured into the sea by spring's or streams issuing from the volcanic rocks. In this connection he gave a highly interesting verbal picture of the condition of affairs, as he imagined them to exist, at what is now the Southern Hants and Colchester at the time when the marine limestones and gypsums were | produced. .
At this period, then, all the space between the Cobequids and the Rawdon Hills was an open arm of the sea, communicating with the ocean both on the east and west. Along the margin of this sea there were in some places stony beaches, in others low alluvial flats covered with the vegetation characteristic of the Carboniferous period. In other places there were creeks and lagoons swarming with fish. In the bottom, at a moderate distance from the shore, began wide banks of shells and corals, and in the central or deeper parts of the area there were beds of calcareous mud with comparatively few of these living creatures. In the hills around, volcanoes of far greater antiquity than those whose products we considered in a former chapter, were altering and calcining the slaty and quartzose rocks; and from their sides every landflood poured down streams of red sand and mud, while in many places rills and springs, strongly impregnated with sulphuric acid, were flowing or rising, and entering the sea, decomposed vast quantities of the carbonate of lime accumulated by shells and corals and converted it into snowy gypsum.
The fauna of the seas of the Lower Carboniferous coal formations and Permian periods, both in Europe and America, presented so great similarities that, in a broad view, he felt they were identical. The changes and the subdivisions of this fauna were related not merely to lapse of time but to vicissitudes of physical conditions. It followed that, according to his reasoning, if the peculiar Permian conditions indicated by the rocks came earlier in Nova Scotia than in Europe the character of the fauna might also be changed earlier. In other words, **We have both rocks and shells with Permian aspect in the earlier Carboniferous period.” The fact that the marine fauna of the Lower Carboniferous of Nova Scotia more nearly resembled that of Europe than the western States he regarded as indicating that the Atlantic was at that time probably an unobstructed sea basin as now, while the Appalachians already, in part, separated the deep-sea fauna of the Carboniferous seas east and west of them.
Concerning the origin of coal he wrote: ‘‘ Mineral charcoal results from subaerial decay; the compact coal, from subaqueous putrefaction more or less modified by heatandexposure toair.” Further, he regarded mineral charcoal as the woody débris of trees, while the compact coal was produced from the bark of these same trees along with such woody

<<<Page: 653>>>



<<<Page: 654>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. et PLATE 29.
SiR WILLIAM DAWSON.
Principal of McGill University.

<<<Page: 655>>>

and herbaceous matter as might be embedded or submerged before decay had time to take place.
He referred again to the observations and conclusions made by him in connection with his Joggins work several years previous, to the effect that the layers of clear, shining coal (pitch or cherry coal) are composed of flattened trunks of trees, and that of these usually the bark alone remains, the lamination of the coal being due to the superposition of layers of such flattened trunks alternating with the accumulations of vegetable matter of successive years, and occasionally with fine vegetable muck or mud spread over the surface by rains or by inundations.
The stigmaria found in the clay underlying nearly every bed of coal he felt proved beyond question the accumulation of the coal-forming materials through growth in situ, following in this respect the teaching of Logan. The under or fire clay was thus looked upon as a fossil soil robbed of its alkali and lime through growths of terrestrial vegetation.
The rocks of the Arisaig series, which in 1855 he regarded as Silurian (Devonian ?), in the edition of 1868 he says ‘‘must be regarded as representing the middle and upper parts of the Upper Silurian, a position somewhat lower than that assigned to it in the first edition.”
The provincial predictions of Dawson in this work are somewhat amusing. Thus, on page 4:
Further, since by those unchanging laws of geological structure and geographical position which the Creator himself has established, this region must always, notwithstanding any artificial arrangements that man may make, remain distinct from Canada on the one hand and New England on the other, the name Acadia must live; and I venture to predict that it will yet figure honorably in the history of this western world. The resources of the Acadian provinces must necessarily render them more wealthy and populous than any area of the same extent on the Atlantic coast from the Bay of Fundy to the Gulf of Mexico, or in the St. Lawrence Valley from the sea to the head of the Great Lakes. Their maritime and mineral resources constitute them the Great Britain of eastern America, and though merely agricultural capabilities may give some inland and more southern regions a temporary advantage, Acadia will in the end assert its natural preeminence.
Dawson was a Nova Scotian by birth, having first seen the light of day at Pictou in 1820. He was educated at Pictou Academy and subsequently at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, where he came
under the influence of Jamieson, Forbes, Balfour, and Sketch of Dawson. Alexander Rose. In 1847 he returned to Nova Scotia,
and in 1855 assumed the principalship and chair of natural history in MeGill University, Montreal, at the head of which institution he remained until 1893, when he was forced by ill health to resign. His first original paper, as has been noted, was on a species of field mouse found in Nova Scotia, and was read before the Wernerian Society of Edinburgh. From so insignificant a beginning he developed
NAT Mus 1904——37

<<<Page: 656>>>

into one of the most prolific and voluminous writers. The Geological History of Plants, The Air Breathers of the Coal Period, The Canadian Ice Age, The Dawn of Life, Story of the Earth and Man, Fossil Men and their Modern Representatives, ‘The Meeting Piace of Geology and History, and Modern Science in Bible Lands are among the best known of his writings, in addition to the work above reviewed. In educational matters he was always prominent, and the present standing of McGill University is largely due to his industry and ability as an administrator. He is represented by his biographer as a man of quiet geniality, gentle and courtly in manner, but, as may be readily surmised from his record in the Eozoon controversy, decided in opinion and firm in action. Like Alexander Winchell he took a prominent part in overcoming the popular prejudice concerning the supposed antagonism between religion and the sciences, particularly geology. An advanced and liberal thinker, he was, nevertheless, not an evolutionist in the ordinary acceptance of the term. He believed that the introduction of new species of animals and plants had been a continuous process, not necessarily in the sense of deviation of one species from another, but in the higher sense of the continued operation of the cause or causes which introduced life at first. The history of a life, he argued, presents a progress from the lower to the higher, from the simpler to the more complex, and from the more generalized to the more specialized. In this progress new types are introduced and take the place of the older ones, which sink to a relatively subordinate place and become thus degraded. To him paleontology furnished no direct evidence as to the actual transformation of one species inte another or as to the actual circumstances of creation of a species; but the drift of its testimony to him showed that species come in per saltum rather than by any slow and gradual process.
In 1879 there was published, as already noted (p. 515), part one of Whitney’s Auriferous Gravels of the Sierra Nevada of California, and in 1880 part two of the same work, the combined papers comprising
a volume of 569 pages, in which the distribution, Cnitney Soden’ origin, and characteristics of the auriferous gravels of the Sierras are fully discussed and much information given regarding their method of mining and economic value.
Discussing the origin of the conglomerates and the prevailing theories regarding their marine origin, he wrote:
Again, these detrital deposits are not distributed over the flanks of the Sierra in any such way as they would have been if they were the result of the action of the sea. On the contrary, there is every reason to believe that they consist of materials which have been brought down from the mountain heights above and deposited in
preexisting valleys; sometimes very narrow accumulations, simply beds of ancient rivers, and at other times in wide lake-like expanses of former water courses.
Subsequent work has apparently fully confirmed Whitney’s view.

<<<Page: 657>>>

The time of deposition was put down by him as during the later Pliocene epoch, and not as late as the drift of the Diluvial period.
Many pages were devoted to the vertébrate fossils found in the auriferous gravels, and particularly to the evidences of man, and the Calaveras skull. The question of the contemporaneous deposition of this skull-with the gravels has been too frequently discussed by ethnologists to need more than a brief mention here. Suffice for the present to state that Whitney himself seems to have been fully convinced of the genuineness of the find, and regarded it as establishing beyond doubt the existence of Tertiary man in California.
In discussing the source of the gold and its distribution in the gravel Whitney took occasion to express the opinion that, as a whole, the occurrence of metalliferous ores is rather a surface phenomenon than a deep-seated one, and that this is due to the favorable conditions for fissure formation and deposition from solution controlled by temperature and pressure.
The source of the gold he thought to be undoubtedly the quartz veins which traverse the Jurassic slates, a fact to his mind refuting Murchison’s theory of the occurrence of gold exclusively in Paleozoic rocks. He found no evidence to support the opinion that the large size of the nuggets in the gravel was due to a gradual growth through chemical precipitation.“ He regarded such as more or less dentritic and branching masses which have been liberated from the gangue and reduced to pebble form by the pounding they received in the moving gravels. ;
Whitney’s work on the auriferous gravels was followed in 1880 and 1882 by an equally comprehensive work on climatic changes of later geological times, the discussion being based largely on observations
made during the work of the California survey.
Piaae nesses. Ve ouluney was struck by the appearance of recent desiccation in the West, as illustrated by the lake regions of the Great Basin, and from a study of the phenomena here met with as compared with those in other regions he was led to conclusions radically at variance with those commonly accepted by his co-workers. It will be remembered that.in the work on the auriferous gravels he took the ground that there had been no appreciable change in elevation of the Sierras since the close of Cretaceous times, and he argued that the Tertiary auriferous gravels were laid down by the rivers of that period which flowed through broad channels, the present deep-cut V-shaped channels being due to the smaller volume of water which was the result of a decrease in annual precipitation. Concerning such, he wrote: It is, as a general rule, safe to assume that where U-shaped valleys exist the perpendicular walls have an orographic origin and that those of V form have had that
«Recent work of A. Liversidge, the Australian mineralogist, confirms this view.

<<<Page: 658>>>

shape given to them by the débris piles which have accumulated against their sides. The farther we descend the mountain slope the less the grade and consequently the less the carrying power of the stream. Hence the valley which is U-shaped in the upper part of its course acquires more and more of a V form as it approaches the plain at the base of the range from which it heads.
Whitney thought to be able to trace, not to go too much into detail, a period of warmth and heavy precipitation followed by one of desiccation, but anticipated by one of cold and glaciation, the glaciers, however, being limited to the most elevated ranges of the Cordilleras. At the outset he announced himself as opposed to the ‘* wild and absurd” ideas that had prevailed regarding glaciation in the Sierras, and stated it as his belief that here at least ice had played but an extremely subordinate part as a geological agent, though ‘‘there is no doubt that the great California range was once covered with grand glaciers, but little if at all inferior to those which now lend such a charm to the Swiss Alps.”
In the discussion of the question he called attention to the fact that the Great Lakes of North America and most of those of other countries as well are included in areas underlain by Paleozoic rocks or those partly Paleozoic and partly Archean, and are due not to glacial erosion, but to orographic movements—Lake Superior, for instance, occupying a synclinal depression in Paleozoic rocks just along the edge of the Azoic series.
The Lake region of the Great Basin while likewise orographie in origin has become desiccated through climatic changes, he finding no evidence that there has been any essential alteration in the configuration or topography of the western side of the continent since the Glacial epoch—that is, since the time when the crests of the highest ranges were to some extent covered with snow and ice. Therefore, no part of the desiccation which appears to have taken place since that time can be due to orographic changes; the phenomenon must have been a climatological one.
The phenomenon of fiords he considered as due to aqueous erosion along mountainous coasts which have since become depressed.
It was Whitney’s opinion, further, that the geological importance of the ice sheet had been greatly exaggerated. It seemed to him beyond question that the icebergs had played an important part in carrying and distributing the large angular bowlders which in many places rest upon the surface in such a’ manner as to show that they could not have been placed in their present position by running water or by a general ice sheet. .
He regarded it as evident enough that the climate of northeastern America during the Glacial epoch was a period of greater precipitation than is now taking place, but that it was a period of intense cold he would not admit. Glaciation or a Glacial period was due merely to increased precipitation. In order that such precipitation should take

<<<Page: 659>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1870—1879. 58l
place an increased evaporation from the land and water was necessary. This could be brought about only by a general increase of temperature, the amount of precipitation being the same; whether it would or not give rise to glaciers would depend upon temperature, which itself would be dependent upon local conditions which might or might not be due to elevation of land surfaces. His idea, in brief, was that while during the Glacial epoch over the entire globe there might be a period of sufficient warmth to produce the desired evaporation, the precipitation would fall as rain or snow, according to the local uplift or depression. That the glaciers are now retreating in nearly every instance he regarded as due not so much to a change in climate—at least, not to a gradual increase of temperature—but rather to a gradual decrease in the amount of annual precipitation. He felt that ‘‘ The weight of the highest authorities is decidely against the theories of both Adhemar and Croll, from the standpoint of astronomical science; while it is believed that these theories are equally at variance with the conclusions of the most eminent climatologists of the present day. At all events, the evidence in favor of a cyclical recurrence of cold, or Glacial periods, sinks into insignificance when compared with that indicating a progressive diminution of temperature on the earth’s surface during the geological ages, and from the very earliest time when land began to exist from the conditions of which light on this subject could be procured.
In this connection it may be mentioned that Whitney considered the movement of glacial ice due to water:
Glacier ice is not simply ice, but a mixture of ice and water, and it is to the presence of the latter that the whole mass owes its flexibility. The larger the amount of water, other things being equal, the more easily the glacial mass moves. When the water increases so as to get the upper hand, the ice gives way with a rush and becomes an avalanche. * * * The extreme variation of the rate of motion of different glaciers coming down from the inland ice of Greenland is due to the different amounts of water which they have imbibed. @
The rapid development of the economic resources of Pennsylvania, particularly coal, iron, and petroleum, during the years intervening between the publication of Rogers’s final report (1858) and 1874,
Second Geological 2 Oused a great public demand for more detailed knowl-
Survey of ~ er Sete Uy. = : Asya mw ene
Petievivania, edge of geological facts. An appeal was, therefore, a . . a» a P
“ele made to the State legislature in 1873 for the establish-
ment of a second geological survey. This culminated in 1874 in an enactment providing for the appointment of ten commissioners, haying authority to appoint a State geologist ‘‘of ability and experience” who should, with ten competent assistants, make such investigations as might be required to elucidate the geology of the State and put the
“It should be noted that Whitney’s ideas were reviewed in a somewhat critical manner by G. K. Gilbert in Science for March 9, 16, and 28, 1883.

<<<Page: 660>>>

results of this and previous work, of either individuals or surveys, into a convenient form for reference.
Acting under this authority the commissioners in 1874 appointed as State geologist J. P. Lesley, a topographer of the first survey under Rogers, and subsequently connected, in the capacity of topographer and geologist, with various private surveys—a one-time clergyman, and then professor of geology in the University of Pennsylvania. Annual appropriations were made, amounting during the thirteen years in which the survey existed to $545,000. Under these seemingly favorable auspices the second survey was inaugurated. With Lesley was associated from time to time, in one capacity or another, a considerable number of individuals, among whom mention may be made of C. A. Ashburner, C. E. Beecher, J. C. Branner, J. F. Carll, H. M. Chance, E. W. Claypole, E. V. d'Invilliers, L. G. Eakins, Persifor Frazer, F. A. Genth, C. E. Hall, T. S. Hunt, A. E. Lehman, Leo Lesquereux, A. S. McCreath, F. Prime, jr., J. J. Stevenson, I. C. White, Arthur Winslow, and G. F. Wright.
From the work of this organization has sprung the most remarkable series of reports ever issued by any survey. Up to and including 1887, when field work was practically discontinued, there had appeared some 77 octavo volumes of text, with 35 atlases, and a ‘‘Grand Atlas.” These were followed in 1892 and 1895 by the three octavo volumes constituting the final report.
A very large portion of the work of this survey fell beyond the time limits mentally set for the present history. It may, however, be stated that the main energies of the organization were directed toward the solving of economic problems,“ and, as was the case with the Rogers survey which preceded it, more attention was devoted to chemical and physical than to paleontological questions. Lesquereux, who had been responsible for what paleobotanical work was done under Rogers, was commissioned to extend his investigations, and in 1880 and 1884 issued three reports of text and one atlas on the Coal Flora. The strictly paleontological work done from 1875 to 1880 was that of J. J. Stevenson and I. C. White, along the West Virginia, Ohio, and New York borders.
“| have been obliged for the last fourteen years to direct the State survey almost exclusively in an economic direction, so as to make the whole of every appropriation bring as much fruit to the business.community as possible, neglecting, in what systematic geologists may possibly or probably consider a shameful manner, strictly scientific researches. _Eyen when I have ordered long and extensive scientific researches (asin the case of the analyses of the Lower Silurian limestone series opposite Harrisburg) it has been, not in the spirit of transcendental science, but with the express intention to use the results directly as applied science to the economical demands of the State. It can hardly be understood by outsiders how completely a State bureau is shut up to this necessity.
Yours, respectfully, J. P. LESLEY.

<<<Page: 661>>>

In 1881 and 1883 Professor White studied the fossils of the middle belt of counties on the Delaware, Susquehanna, and the upper Juniata rivers. Professor Stevenson did the same for the Maryland border, while E. W. Claypole was commissioned to prepare a special report on all forms discoverable in the district of the lower Juniata.
The main energies of the survey were, as above noted, devoted to economic problems, with particular reference to the extent both geographic and geologic of the coal and petroleum formations. A great amount of good was undoubtedly accomplished, perhaps as much as one has a right to expect. Work in later years has, however, showed that the fundamental defect of the survey was lack of accurate topographical maps. This seems the more remarkable in view of the fact that the same defect became obvious during the progress of the Rogers survey, and further, in that Lesley was, himself, a topographer.
To quote Lesley’s own words (manuscript), the facts of dominant importance which became impressed upon the Pennsylvania survey were as follows:
(1) The Paleozoic formations reach their maximum thickness in this State; and consequently admit of a greater differentiation than elsewhere into special groups of beds.
(2) The middle region of the State is magnificently plicated and eroded, exposing innumerable outcrops, connected in zigzags, and of immense length.
(3) No unconformable later deposits cover and conceal these outcrops, so that there is an unexampled opportunity for the study of variable thickness and changes of type.
(4) The topographical features are so dependent upon the lithology and structure that any geological survey of the region must be virtually a topographical survey.
(5) The geological areas are of great size and so clearly defined, and so distinct in character, that they naturally claimed and received each one a survey of its own. These areas are: 1, The Bituminous Coal field of the west and north; 2, the Anthracite Coal fields in the east; 3, the middle belt of Devonian and Silurian formations; 4, the Mesozoic belt of the south and east; 5, the South Mountain Azoic; 6, the Philadelphia belt of Azoic rock; and 7, the region of Glacial Drift.
(6) The natural section of the Bituminous Coal Measures, down the Monongahela and up the Allegheny rivers, relieved the study of that part of the Paleozoic system of all ambiguity.
(7) The great amount of mining done in the anthracite fields made that part of the survey peculiarly exact and correct.
(8) The great size and number of the brown hematite mines furnished unusual opportunities for the study of that kind of mineral.
(9) The great size and number of limestone quarries, exploited for the manufacture of iron and for fertilizing farms, opened to view every part of the great SiluroCambrian formation, the whole of the Lower Helderberg, all the Devonian, and most of the Carboniferous limestone beds.
(10) On the other hand, Pennsylvania is singularly destitute of workable veins of the precious metals. Its poverty in gold, silver, copper, and lead is extreme. It has but one important zinc deposit; and but one nickel mine.“ In fact its Azoic regions as a whole are barren country, containing but a few small magnetic iron ore beds, in
@ Not worked since 1891.

<<<Page: 662>>>

strong contrast to the adjoining Azoic region of northern New Jersey. What little white marble it possesses makes a narrow outcrop for a few miles along a single line. Some serpentine rock, a little chrome iron, one large soapstone quarry, and some kaolin deposits conclude the list of its Azoic minerals.
Practically viewed, the geology of Pennsylvania is wholly Paleozoic, on the most magnificent scale, with an unexampled wealth of anthracite and bituminous. coal, brown hematite iron ore, limestone, rock oil, and rock gas; and to the study and description of these its geological survey has from first to last been devoted.
Little attention has been paid to the lithological study of the building stones of the State, or to their economic description. The entire State is a rock quarry. Every known building stone from the granites, gneisses, quartzites, and traps, to hearthstones, flagstones, brownstone, and limestone can be got with ease and with infinite abundance on lines of transportation. All the principal outcrops of these building stone formations have been located and their places in the Paleozoic series defined in the reports, with sufficiently precise descriptions of their qualities and uses; but beyond this the survey could not go.
Lesley was born in Philadelphia in 1819, and graduated at the University of Pennsylvania in 1838, becoming almost immediately connected with the State geological survey under Rogers, in the capacity of topog-
rapher. In 1841, during Sketch of Lesley. the temporary suspension
of this work, he entered upon the study of theology at Princeton, and was licensed to preach in 1844. He then went to Europe, where he studied in the University of Halle during the winter of 1844-45.
Returning to America, he assumed the pastorate of a Congregational church in Milford, Massachusetts, but resigned in 1851 and owing, it is stated, to a change in his religious views, gave up the ministry altogether. Returning to Philadelphia, he soon became secretary of the Iron and Steel Association and of the American Philosophical Society, and prominent in geological matters, particularly those relating to iron and coal. Had he so chosen, he could undoubtedly have acquired a fortune, but, preferring science for science’ sake, he put aside all offers of private gain and remained poor, often desperately so, to the end of his days.
He was a man of tall, lank, but commanding figure, and, according to his biographer, of impressionable and emotional nature, an enthusiast and optimist, but often lamentably melancholy, undemonstrative, and even cynical. A man of tremendous nervous energy, aggressive and outspoken, his writings are full of expressions which, for terseness and unpolished emphasis, are unequaled. Thus, in a letter to Powell relative to the coloring of maps and the names of the various formations, he wrote:
Fig. 96.—J. Peter Lesley.

<<<Page: 663>>>

The fact is these English names are good for nothing in America and ought to be ignored. If I were an expert in profanity, I should say damn the text-books, Dana’s, Le Conte’s, and all of them. They are mere museums of embarrassments, so far as classification is in question. * * * Fortunately Pennsylvania is a very small corner of the United States, and I suppose it matters very little whether its structure appears on.your map or not. But in heaven’s name (I mean the heayen of geology), what do you gain by distinguishing a miserable subformation like the Permian (one or two patches) and not distinguishing an enormous subformation 5,000 feet thick lke the Subcarboniferous? @
The reports of D. D. Owen and Dr. John Evans on the collections made by the latter in the mawvadses terres of the White River in 1849, as published in 1852, had attracted a great deal of attention, and in Beach dinteek the spring of 1853 Dr. PF. V. Hayden and B. B. Meek inree Hed Lands, were employed by Prof. James Hall to visit the ‘* Bad
Lands” to make collections of fossils.
The party met at St. Louis on Saturday, May 14, 1853, where they found Dr. John Evans bent upon a similar errand under the direction of Dr. B. F. Shumard. Leaving St. Louis, the party proceeded by boat up the Missouri, reaching Fort Pierre—-what is now the town of Pierre, in South Dakota—June 21, whence they proceeded by wagon into the Bad Lands proper. Here, in spite of the difficulty of holding the party together through fear of hostile Indians, they remained for a period of several weeks, returning to Fort Pierre on July 18. They brought with them a large and valuable collection, including mammalian remains which were investigated by Dr. Joseph Leidy.
The Cretaceous invertebrate fossils were studied by Professors Hall and Meek and described by them in a memoir published by the American Society of Arts and Sciences of Boston in 1854. This paper was accompanied by a brief vertical section by Meek, showing the order of superposition of the Cretaceous beds. As this is believed to be the first section of the region, it is here reproduced in full:
Section of the Members of the Cretaceous Formation as observed on the Missouri River, and thence Westward to the Mauvaises Terres.
Eocene Tertiary formation: Clays, sandstones, ete., containing remains of Mammalia. The entire thickness of this formation in the Bad Lands is from 25 to 250 feet.
«Some of Lesley’s ‘‘digs’’ at his fellow-workers are masterpieces of their kind. Thus in Volume I of his final report, where attempting to describe the chaotic conditions existing on the earth during the earliest Archean times, and the intense chemical activity incidental to the deluges of ‘‘sour rain’’ falling upon the hot surface, he says (p. 53): ‘‘All this had taken place before the first age of which we have any geological monuments and is only known to God and Dr. Sterry Hunt, who has described it magnificently in his Chemical Researches.”’

<<<Page: 664>>>

Cretaceous formation: :
5. Arenaceous clay passing into argillo-calcareous sandstone. 80 feet.
4. Plastic clay with caleareous concretions containing numerous fossils. 250 to 390 feet.
This is the principal fossiliferous bed of the Cretaceous formation upon the Upper
Missouri.
3. Caleareous marl, containing Ostrea congesta, scales of fishes, etc. 100 to 150 feet.
2. Clay containing few fossils. 80 feet.
1. Sandstone and clay. 90 feet.
Buff-colored magnesian limestone of the Carboniferous period.
In the following spring (1854) Doctor Hayden again ascended the Missouri River, this time partly under the auspices of the American Fur Company. He spent two years on this expedition, during which Boat aes time he visited the various portions of the Upper the Upper Missouri, Missouri, being without any other means than what he
earned or secured in various ways as he went along, and dependent even for subsistence entirely on such friends as he met in the country, among whom were Col. A. J..<Vaughan, the Indian agent, and Mr. Alexander Culbertson, of the American Fur Company.
He traversed the Missouri River to Fort Benton and the Yellowstone to the mouth of the Big Horn, and also considerable portions of other districts not immediately bordering on the Missouri. As the boats of the fur company had to be towed in ascending the river, the progress was necessarily slow. The time thus occupied by the boats was utilized by Hayden on the shores, and as a result he traversed a considerable portion of the journey on foot.
The vertebrate remains collected on this trip were, as in a previous case, described by Doctor Leidy, mainly in papers read before the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, while the invertebrates were described by Doctor Hayden himself in connection with Professor Meek. The collections, which were deposited partly with the Academy of Science of St. Louis and partly with the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, contained a larger number of species than all those previously known from that country, many of them being new and of a remarkable character.
Early in 1856 Hayden returned to St. Louis, and on February 15 of that year received from Lieut. G. K. Warren, of the U. 8. Corps of Topographical Engineers, an offer to report upon the Sioux country. dovaeen as report was made, and in May of the same year Di sere thie = tuee Warren appointed him one of his assistants in the
exploration of the Yellowstone River and the Missouri River from Fort Pierre to a point 60 miles north of the mouth of the Yellowstone.
The field work of this expedition began on June 28, the party
returning to Fort Pierre on October 22, and. reaching Washington in

<<<Page: 665>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—DECADE OF 1870-1879. oon
November. In May, 1857, Hayden was again appointed geologist by eae Lieutenant Warren, this time on an expedition to the Warren in the Black Black Hills. The party was organized at Sioux City in June and proceeded up the Loup Fork of the Platte, returning to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, early in the following December. Hayden noted the occurrence of — Metamorphic Azoic rocks, including granite. . Lower Silurian (Potsdam). Devonian (7). Carboniferous. Permian. Jurassic. Cretaceous. Tertiary. Post-Tertiary and Quaternary.
In a preliminary report given by Warren in the American Journal of Science for May, 1859, attention was called to the important physiographic fact that the Niobrara River seemed ‘*to run along a swell or ridge on the surface and to be practically without tributaries.”
This would seem to be a recognition of the fact, though not the principle, that streams flowing from a mountainous country and laden with silt may, in their lower levels where the current is less rapid and the carrying power less, so deposit their load as to build up both the bottom and banks, and this until the stream actually occupies the crest of aridge. The Platte River is, however, a better illustration of this than is the Niobrara. That portion of the channel running between steep bluffs he thought ‘‘ must have originated in a fissure in the rocks which the water basins enlarged and made more uniform in size.” This failure at this late day to realize that a stream may carve out its own channel can be excused only on the ground that Warren was not a geologist.
During the summer of 1858 Messrs. Hayden and Meek explored a portion of what was then called the Territory of Kansas. The route followed, as given by Hayden in his report published in the Proceedings
of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, ae ie was.as follows:
From Leavenworth City on the Missouri, across the country to Indianola near the mouth of Soldier-Creek and the Kansas River; thence up the north side of Kansas and Smoky Hill rivers to the mouth of Solomons Fork. Here they crossed the Smoky Hill, following it up on the south side to a point near the ninetyeighth degree of west longitude, from which point they struck across the country in a southwest direction to the Santa Fe road, which was followed northeastward to the head of Cottonwood Creek.
wo Re
OOD TID OK ww

<<<Page: 666>>>

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904: Leaving the road here, they went down the Cottonwood Valley some 30
miles, when they turned due east to Council Grove, from which place
410dor S,uepAvy Aq poioAodBore PUR ‘09-6CkT UL UONIpedxg §,ploudRy JO synod surMoYsS dey(—"L6 ‘OTT
ea Nee RO orto, A ae —— eee a ag oe Zen aytrapeey d = = I J : Se Ze \ pana ! 2 a = ne i alee vanaet J j Jew Sag pa, SSS <0 suuekeyy’ <
ie a? any ay an E: x \
ema aan DAmuqornr WAS Died eo ae: seca Ne fotrareoog 4 ay Oe eee Dee Naas i—s AAI <7 \) tg 7]
i mrs | es 3S PEA ie eee Van Oh o plowing fi »
. pare Ne oivns
ara Po eres .
Le Aine
“nor
7 Red wiver
t PM \ “ i 32H dulorpa ; ny 1 Nealiall r ee W lawroqnass 7 ae Doe (Ss + we See a 10) c \ M | \, ie cen VA
a poin
Here they struck across the
the Santa Fe road was followed southwest for about 24 miles to a country in a northwest direction to Smoky Hill River again at
watering place known as Lost Springs.

<<<Page: 667>>>

nearly opposite the mouth of Solomons Fork. Thence the route lay down the south side of Smoky Hill and Kansas rivers to Lawrence, and thence across the Kansas in a northeastward direction to Leavenworth city. The explorations were very successful, and the results embodied in numerous papers in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and elsewhere.
In April, 1859, Capt. W. F. Raynolds was instructed to organize an expedition for the exploration of the country from which flow the upper tributaries of the Yellowstone River and of the mountains in a eer which these tributaries and the Gallatin and Madison eee forks of the Missouri have their source. On April 22 Doctor Hayden was appointed surgeon and naturalist of this expedition. The party left St. Louis May 28, 1859, going up the Missouri to Fort Pierre, which point was reached about the middle of June. From here the route was westward and northwestward to the Yellowstone River by way of the Cheyenne, the Belle Fourche, and Powder rivers. The Yellowstone was reached near the mouth of the Big Horn about the middle of August. From the Yellowstone the expedition turned southward early in September and followed up the Big Horn, skirting the eastern edge of the Big Horn Mountains, finally going into winter quarters on Deep Creek, near the North Platte River, about the middle of October.
The following May (1860) explorations were resumed, the expedition going to Fort Benton, on the Missouri, by way of the North Platte, Wind, Snake, and Madison rivers. Fort Benton was reached July 14. On the 23d of July the return trip to Omaha was begun, the party proceeding by boat down the Missouri River to Fort Union, and from the latter point by land. Omaha was reached October 4, where the party disbanded.
The report of this last expedition, published early in 1869, comprised some 174 octavo pages, including 30 pages of paleontological notes by J.S. Newberry. It was accompanied by a colored geological map of the region north of the forty-second parallel and lying between the ninety-eighth and one hundred and fourteenth meridians (fig. 97).
Some of the more important conclusions arrived at by Hayden as a result of observations on these expeditions are as follows: He announced in 1857 the discovery of Potsdam sandstone in the country about the
headwaters of the Yellowstone, and in a preliminary Bae Work "> publication in the American Journal of Science for
1861 described it as more or less changed by heat from beneath. The other formations noted were Carboniferous (including Permian /), red arenaceous deposits overlying the Carboniferous, but of uncertain age; Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary deposits. During the long interval that elapsed between the deposition of the earliest part of the Silurian and the commencement of the Carboniferous,

<<<Page: 668>>>

he believed dry land to have prevailed over a large portion of the West, and he found no evidence of deep-water deposits until far up into the Cretaceous. Near the close of this epoch the waters of the great Cretaceous seas receded toward the present position of the Atlantic on the one side and the Pacific on the other, leaving large areas in the central West dry land with but a slight elevation above the sea level. He showed that the White River Tertiary deposits were younger than the Lignite, and that the older members of the western Tertiary were clearly separable into four divisions exclusive of the Pliocene of the Niobrara. He believed that the estuarian deposits ushered in the dawn of the Tertiary epoch and that they belonged to the Eocene period. The evidence of the fossils was regarded as indicating that a much milder climate prevailed throughout the West during the greater part of the Tertiary than at present—a climate somewhat similar to that of the Gulf States at the present day.
In an article on the Primordial sandstone of the Rocky Mountains, published in the American Journal of Science for 1862, he announced the finding of undoubted evidence of the existence of the equivalent of the Potsdam sandstone of the New York series in two important outliers of the Rocky Mountain chain. He pointed out the singular uniformity in the nature of the sediments and general lithological resemblance to the eastern type, but did not regard this as due to the currents bringing the material from the East. He thought, rather, that the uniformity was due to a similar uniformity on the part of the underlying rocks from which sediments were derived—that is, he believed that the source of all the sediments composing the Primordial rocks in the West could be traced to underlying rocks in the immediate vicinity. He noted the gradual thinning out of this Primordial sandstone toward the West, and quoted the observations of D. D. Owen in Minnesota, Whitney in Iowa, Safford in Tennessee, and Shumard in Texas as confirmatory. The lower secondary formations, on the other hand, as he pointed out, gradually increased in thickness.
He noted no unconformability in any of the fossiliferous sedimentary rocks of the Northwest from the Potsdam sandstone to the summits of the true Lignite Tertiary, but found proof of two great periods of disturbance, the one prior to the deposition of Potsdam sandstone, when the Azoic or granitic rocks were elevated to a more or less inclined position, and the other, much the more important, at the close of the Lignite Tertiary, when the ‘‘ massive nuclei of the ranges were raised above the surrounding country.”
In the American Journal of Science for 1862 Hayden had an important paper in regard to the period of elevation of the ranges of the Rocky Mountains near the sources of the Missouri River and its tributaries. He regarded the evidence as clear that the great subterranean

<<<Page: 669>>>

forces which elevated the western portion of the continent were called into operation toward the close of the Cretaceous epoch, and that the gradual rising continued without a general bursting of the earth’s surface until the accumulation of the Tertiary lignite deposits, or at least the greater part of them. Also, that after the fracture of the surface ecmmenced and the great crustal movements began to display themselves, the whole country continued rising, though perhaps with intervening periods of subsidence, up to and even including the present period.
During the years of the civil war western exploration of all kinds was interrupted. Hayden served in the Federal army as a surgeon from 1862 until 1865, resigning to accept the position of professor of mineralogy and geology in the University of Pennsylvania, a position which he retained until 1872.
In the summer of 1866 he undertook a second expedition to the Bad Lands, this time under the auspices of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. In company with James Stevenson he left Fort 2 Randall, South Dakota, August 3. The trip was made Pa neon te the with a six-mule team and occupied fifty-two days, dur-
ing which a circuit of six hundred and fifty miles was accomplished. The large and valuable collection of mammalian fossils was described by Leidy in his great work of upward of 450 large octavo pages and 30 plates, published under the auspices of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The work began with an introduction of 12 pages on the geology of the Tertiary formations of Dakota and Nebraska, accompanied by a map. In this work Hayden pointed out the possibility of bridging over the chasm heretofore existing between the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods by means of transition beds belonging to the lignite series. He reiterated some of the statements made in previous writings, to the effect that, at the close of the Cretaceous period, the Rocky Mountain area was occupied by the waters of an ocean with perhaps a few peaks projecting. Near the close of the period the surface had reached an elevation so great as to form long lines of separation between the waters of the Atlantic on the East and those of the Pacific on the West, and then this great watershed began to rise above the surrounding country and the period of great fresh-water lakes was inaugurated. The elevation during the Cretaceous period he regarded as slow and gradual, but at about the close of the period or in the early part of the Tertiary the limit of tension in the crust was reached and long lines of fracture commenced which form the nucleus of the present mountain ranges, including the lofty continuous ranges with a granitoid nucleus along the eastern portion of the Rocky Mountains, as the Wind River, Big Horn, Laramie, or Black Hills. He showed that the Tertiary beds were in part deposited before the upheaval, as indicated by the inclination of the lignite beds.

<<<Page: 670>>>

The lower Tertiary fossils included brackish-water forms, and he thought to trace the ‘‘ history of the growth of the continent step by step from the purely marine waters of the Cretaceous ocean to the period when the mountain ranges were elevated,” the ocean waters excluded and inclosed lakes formed, at first salt, but gradually freshened by influx from fresh-water streams. He stated further that the elevating forces acted throughout the Tertiary and post-Tertiary periods, and probably continue to act down to the present time. During the Tertiary period there existed at least four and possibly five of these fresh-water lakes in the West, two of which were of great extent. The deposits in these lakes formed the bad lands of the Judith, the great Lignite basin, the Wind River basin, and the White River group. A portion of this last, that in the region of the White River, he regarded as of Miocene age.
THE U.S. GEOLOGICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL SURVEYS CI Eee HAYDEN.
In the spring of 1867 Hayden, acting under the direction of the General Land Office, and with an appropriation from Congress amounting to $5,000, began his work as U. 8. geologist in Nebraska, and in
so domg laid the foundation for the U. S. Geological Nebraska tee7,” Survey as it exists to-day. Hayden was assisted dur-
ing the first year by Dr. C. A. White and F. B. Meek. His first annual report comprised 64 octavo pages, and dealt largely with the possible occurrence of workable beds of coal within the State (decided in the negative); the loess, which he regarded as silt brought down by streams and deposited in a fresh-water lake, and considerations relative to the distribution of the Cretaceous and Tertiary depos-
its. In 1868 the appropriation of $5,000 was renewed Woomng iscs.” and the field of work extended into Wyoming. In his
report of 102 pages he called attention to the probable Tertiary age of all the coal of both Wyoming and Colorado. In 1869 $10,000 was appropriated and the field of work transferred to Colorado and New Mexico, the survey being at the same time placed under the vane eas direction of the Secretary of the Interior. His assistColorado andNew ants for this survey were James Stevenson; Henry W. Mexico, 1869. i : be by oan Z
Elliott, artist; Persifor Frazer, mining engineer and metallurgist; Cyrus Thomas, entomologist and botanist; E. C. Carrington, zoologist, and B. H. Cheever, jr.
In this report he confirmed the statement made by him in the American Journal of Science for March, 1868— that all the lignite Tertiary beds of the West are but fragments of one great basin,
interrupted here and there by the upheaval of mountain chains or concealed by the deposition of newer formations.

<<<Page: 671>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill.
“LZ81 ‘1SNONY ‘SSVWd VLAA V7 LV ALYVd G73I4 NaGAVH
(YORLIS “SIN ‘AYORIIS pavyporn 3
esaea ee *

<<<Page: 672>>>



<<<Page: 673>>>

He pointed out that the main range of the Rocky Mountains ‘is
really a gigantic anticlinal and all the lower ranges and ridges * * * only monoclinals, descending steplike to the plains on each side of the central axis.” Also that there were two kinds of ranges in the Rocky Mountain system—one with a granitoid nucleus, with long lines of fracture, and in the aggregate possessing a specitic trend; the other with a basaltic nucleus, composed of a series of volcanic cones or outbursts of igneous rocks, in many cases forming saw-like ridges like those of the Sierras. :
He found no evidences of any unconformity between the Cretaceous and lower Tertiary beds and no such changes in the sediments as would account for the sudden and apparently complete destruction of organic life at the close of the Cretaceous period.
He visited the Salt Lake Valley and examined the terraces and old shore lines of Great Salt Lake, describing the beds as of post-Pliocene or Quaternary age and correlating them with the terraces noted by him above the Wasatch Canyon. He found this series of beds so widely extended and so largely developed in Weber and Salt Lake valleys that he regarded it as worthy of a distinct name, and in consequence called it the Salt Lake group. He afterwards (in 1871) limited the name to the older beds, which he considered as of later Pliocene age, recognizing the more modern character of the terraces in which he found a great abundance of fresh-water shells.
The question of priority in this region having arisen between the King and Hayden surveys, it may be well to state that, according to Dr. A. C. Peale, Hayden’s first work in the Salt Lake Valley was done in the years 1868, 1869, and 1870, and the results published in February, 1869, during the latter part of 1869, and the early part of 1871. The report of the field work of 1870 in Wyoming was first printed in 1871, and a second edition issued in 1872.
In 1870, with appropriations increased to $25,000, Hayden’s field of operations was transferred to Wyoming and portions of contiguous territories. Stevenson, Elliott, and Thomas were with him as before,
while W. H. Jackson, photographer; John H. Beaman, Wyoming 1870. meteorologist; A. L. Ford, mineralogist; C. P. Car-
rington, zoologist, and Henry D. Schmidt, naturalist, were added to the scientific corps.
The party outfitted at Cheyenne, in Wyoming, and proceeded northward along the eastern base of the Laramie range, exploring the Platte River as far as the Red Buttes, and thence passing across the divide to the Sweetwater; thence to the source of the Wind River Mountains, passing down Big and Little Sandy creeks to Green River, and exploring the northern slope of the Uinta Mountains. From Fort Bridger the route lay southward to Henrys Fork, which was explored down te
NAT Mus 1904——38

<<<Page: 674>>>

its junction with Green River proper. From Green River Station the route followed the old stage route up Bitter Creek by way of Bridger Pass and the Medicine Bow Mountains, across the Laramie Plains, and through the Laramie Range by way of Cheyenne Pass, back to the point of departure
Studies were adh also along the line of the Pacific Railroad between Cheyenne and the Salt Lake Valley. No topographer accompanied the party, and the maps used were those constructed by the engineering department of the Army, which were, however, so inaccurate that to delineate the geology upon them in any but the most general way was practically impossible.
During this season Hayden worked out the sequence of the Carboniferous and Cretaceous rocks, and made the subdivisions of the latter into Dakota, Fort Pierre, and Fox Hill groups, which are still recognized. He remarked that some of the fossils found in southern Nebraska seemed to possess Permian affinities, though as they all extended down into the Coal Measures they could not be considered as characteristic, and therefore those rocks which he had previously mapped and colored as Permian should be relegated to the PermoCarboniferous.
He noted the occurrence of Potsdam sandstone with Odbolella nana and Lingula at South Pass on the south side of the Sweetwater. The massive granites as well as the intercalated stratified gneisses extending from South Pass City nearly to Pacific Springs were all regarded as of sedimentary origin. He showed that, near the close of the Cretaceous period, the ocean extended all over the area west of the Mississippi from the Arctic circle to the Isthmus of Darien. A little later the great watershed of the continent was marked out and the marine waters were separated into more or less shallow seas, lakes, and marshes, within which grew the abundant forests that went to form the coal beds.
From a study of the character of the vegetable impressions found in these beds, he argued that coal strata of contemporaneous origin may be purely marine, purely fresh water, or brackish, dependent upon local conditions. He pointed out that the sea had not had access to the Salt Lake Valley since middle Tertiary times, the sediments from 800 to 1,200 feet in thickness, called by him the Salt Lake group, being regarded as of Pliocene age and contemporaneous with the Niobrara, Arkansas, and Santa Fe groups, and of fresh water origin.
This report of Hayden was accompanied by special reports by Meek on the invertebrate paleontology, by Cope and Leidy on the vertebrate paleontology, by Lesquereux on paleobotany, and by Newberry on the ancient lakes of western North America. The volume marks the beginning of Cope’s work with the Hayden survey, which resulted later in the production of the two monographs on the vertebrata of the
" =_

<<<Page: 675>>>

Cretaceous and Tertiary formations of the West, the latter, popularly known as ‘*Cope’s Primer,” a pudgy volume of 1,009 pages and 184 full-page plates. With this year, too, began Jackson’s work, which resulted in the production of what were at the time the finest landscape photographs ever taken, and which excited the wonder and admiration of geologists the world over,
In 1871, with an appropriation of $40,000, field operations were transferred to Montana and portions of adjacent territories, including what is now the Yellowstone Park. To the party of the year previous was
Wee ct Hayden added An-
Survey in Montana + sehonand the Yellowstone ton Schon
Park, 1871. born, FOE _ pographer; G. N. Allen, botanist, and Dr. A. C. Peale, mineralogist. The route lay from Ogden, Utah, along the shore of Salt Lake to Willard City; thence through the Wasatch range to Cash Valley, and up the valley to the divide between the Salt Lake and Snake River basins. From this point they descended Marsh Creek to the Snake River basin and Fort Hall. Following the stage route to Virginia J unction, they crossed Black Tail Deer Creek near its source; thence down the Stinking Water to Virginia City; then, crossing the divide eastward to the Madison — 3 ae
5 Fic. 98.—Edward Drinker Cope with skull of LoxolophoRiver, they descended the dan Conatis: valley about 30 miles and crossed over the other divide to Fort Ellis, at the head of the Gallatin River. From Fort Ellis they passed again eastward over the divide between the Yellowstone and the Missouri to Bottler’s ranch, where was established a permanent camp. <A portion of the party then proceeded up the Yellowstone and entered the park area, surveying the mammoth hot springs on Gardners River, the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone, the upper and lower geyser basins, and the lake. On returning to Bottler’s ranch in August, they passed down the Yellowstone to Shields River and Fort Ellis, and thence down the Gallatin to Three Forks, up the Jefferson to the Beaver Head Branch and to

<<<Page: 676>>>

Horse Plain Creek, and across the main Rocky Mountain divide to the headwaters of Medicine Lodge Creek, into the Snake River basin, to Fort Hall once more, and thence across the mountains to the head of Bear River and up the river to Evanston, on the Union Pacific Railroad, where the party disbanded. .
Asin years previous, Messrs. Cope, Lesquereux, Leidy, Meek, Newberry, and others served as collaborators in their especial fields. The hot springs and geysers were described in considerable detail, and the fact that they were but the feeble manifestations of dying volcanic energy recognized. It was shown that the mountain ranges passed over lie along the borders of synclinal valleys, which were originally the basins of fresh water lakes, and that all the ranges had a general north and south or northwest and southeast trend, and were here and there connected by cross chains; that the three main branches of the Missouri—the Madison, Jefferson, and Gallatin—flowed through valleys now extending to a width of 3 to 5 miles and now contracting to narrow canyons, the expansions of which had all been lake basins within late Tertiary and perhaps early quaternary times. The valleys were regarded as in part due to erosion, but for the most part as svnelinal folds, the intervening mountain ridges being wedge-like masses of Carboniferous limestones.
The work done this year by Hayden and his party resulted in the setting aside of the Yellowstone region as a national park.
In 1872, with appropriations increased to $75,000, Hayden divided his force into two Tid! 9ecHiclaine Bisatora Mack, Parties. “The tirst, ;underSins jaunediace
charge, consisting of Adolf Burck, chief
topographer; Henry Gannett, astronomer; A. E. Brown, assistant
topographer; E. R. Wakefield, meteorologist; A. C. Peale, mineralo-
gist; W. H. Holmes, artist, and W. B. Platt, naturalist.
Montaga @x4s2 in This division left Fort Ellis, Montana, and explored
the headwaters of the Yellowstone, Gallatin, and
Madison rivers in much more detail than had been done during the previous year.
The second or Snake River division, under the directorship of James Stevenson, included Frank H. Bradley, chief geologist; W. R. Taggert, assistant geologist; Gustavus R. Bechler, chief topographer; Adolph Herring and Thomas W. Jaycox, assistant topographers; William Nicholson, meteorologist; John M. Coulter, botanist; Dr. Josiah Curtis, surgeon and naturalist, and William H. Jackson, photographer. This division visited the Snake River or Lewis Fork of the Columbia in Idaho and Wyoming territories, a region up to that time little

<<<Page: 677>>>

AMERICAN GEOLOGY—SURVEYS UNDER HAYDEN. ye
known. The Teton Mountains—a prominent range—were ascended by Stevenson on this trip, this being the first time, it was claimed, that the feat had been accomplished by a white man.
Professors Leidy and Cope spent a large part of the summer in studying the ancient lake basins in the interior, and obtained the materials described in Volumes 1 and 2 of the quarto final reports. Lesquereux spent several months in exploring the coal beds to ascertain their geological position, and F. B. Meek and H. M. Bannister studied the invertebrates.@
From a preliminary study Lesquereux was inclined to call the lignite beds mostly Eocene. Meek regarded them as Upper Cretaceous, passing through transition beds to the Eocene, and Cope regarded them as Cretaceous. Hayden in this report gives, himself, a brief review of the opinions held and the evidence on which same is based, and concluded that the deposition of the lignite strata began during the latter portion of the Cretaceous period and continued on into Tertiary time without any marked physical break, so that many of the Cretaceous types, especially ot the vertebrates. may have lingered on | through the transition period even into the Tertiary epoch.
In this report Hayden called attention to one feature in the geological structure of the mountains of Montana observed by the survey during the past season for the first time and not noticed in such a marked degree in any other portion of the West, and that is the inversion of the sedimentary beds, so that the oldest incline at a greater or less angle on those of more modern ages. As illustrative of this, he gave an east and west section across the Flathead Pass in the East Gallatin range, the central portion of this range being composed of Carboniferous limestone standing nearly vertically. A similar illustration of inversion was given by Peale in his report on the geology of Jackass Creek on the upper Missouri River.
Another point to which Hayden called attention in this report was the fact that the streams ‘‘seem to have cut their way directly through the mountain ranges instead of following synclinal depressions,” indicating, to his mind, that they began the process of erosion at the time of the commencement of the elevation of the surface. (See also Powell, p. 566.) The period of intense volcanic activity manifested in the Yellowstone region he thought to have probably commenced somewhere during later Miocene or early Pliocene epochs.
Fig. 100.—Frank Howe Bradley.
“Bannister also reported on a geological reconnaissance along the Union Pacific Railroad this same year.

<<<Page: 678>>>

With Cope, Leidy, and Marsh all in the field of vertebrate paleontology at one time, it is not strange that a spirit of rivalry, if not of personal jealousy, should have arisen. This found expression in numerous instances which at this date are only amusing, however serious they may at the time have seemed to those most interested. Thus, Cope in 1868 described and figured remains of a marine saurian from the Cretaceous of Kansas, to which he gave the name of /lasmosaurus platyurus. Leidy, ever on the alert, made a reexamination of the materials, and at the meeting of the Philadelphia Academy on March 8, 1870, announced that the remains were, in reality, those of an Enaliosaurian and closely allied to Plesiosaurus, and, further, that Cope’s error in identification lay in his having described the animal— the skeleton of which was without a skull and quite incomplete—in a reversed position from the true one.“
In 1873, with appropriations the same as for the previous season, the field of operations was transferred to Colorado, this in part owing to the expense of transportation, subsistence, and labor in regions so remote as those of the upper Missouri, and in part to Wak sr Hoes the hostility of the Indians. Survey in Colorado, The party rendezvoused at
Denver. The area decided upon to be surveyed comprised the eastern portion of the mountainous part of Colorado, and was divided into three districts known as the North, Middle, and Southern. The
TORO = Toceph elaine personnel and their assignments were as follows:
The first or Middle Park division, directed by A. R. Marvine, assistant geologist, with G. R. Bechler, topographer, and 8. B. Ladd, assistant topographer. The second or South Park division, with Henry Gannett as topographer in charge; Dr. A. C. Peale, geologist; « Another illustration of hasty work—in this case through fear of anticipation by Marsh—is furnished by Cope while with the Hayden survey in Wyoming in this year (1872). Finding certain fragmentary vertebrate remains which he believed to represent new species, he actually sent the following telegram to the Philadelphia Academy in order to secure priority of publication:
Buack Burres, Wyomine, Aug. 17, 1872.
I have discovered in southern Wyoming the following species:
Loxolophodon Cope. Incis. 1, one canine tusk, pm. 4, with one crescent and inner tubercle; molars 2, size gigantic. JL. cornutus, horns tripedral, cylindric; nasals with short convex lobes. JL. furcatus, nasals with long spatulate lobes. L. pressicornis, horns compressed subacuminate.
Epwarp ID. Corr, U. S. Geological Survey.

<<<Page: 679>>>

W. R. Taggert, assistant geologist; Henry W. Stuckle, assistant topographer, and J. H. Batty, naturalist. The third or San Luis division was in charge of A. D. Wilson, topographer, with George M. Chittenden, assistant topographer, and Dr. F. M. Endlich, geologist. The work of this year extended as far westward in Colorado as Middle Park, the Elk Mountains, and the San Luis Park. It was during this season’s work that the peculiar examples of subaerial erosion of Monument Park in Colorado were described and figured, which have so frequently served the purpose of reproduction in the text-books. The wonderful instances of complete overturning of immense groups of beds, as illustrated in the Elk Range, were again referred to, attention being called to withe fact that for several miles there is a double series from the Silurian up to the Cretaceous, inclusive, which had been thus inverted. In this report, too, were given the examples of inversion in the Snow Mass Range and the view on Roches Moutonnés Creek, both of which have served their pur pose in the text-books of Dana and Le Conte. The question of the age of the lignite beds occupied the attention of nearly all the workers in the field (see p. 647). Lesquereux, in his chapter on the lignite flora, argued in favor of the Eocene and Miocene age of the beds. Though not denying the presence of animal Cretaceous remains in the lignite strata, he regarded the ‘‘presence of some scattered fragments of Cretaceous shells as of little moment in comparison with the wellFig. 103,—Inverted beds of Jackmarked characters of the flora.” Meek’s ass Creek. (After A.C. Peale.) ° ; invertebrate work, moreover, he regarded as rather in favor of the Tertiary hypothesis. To Cope’s conclusions ‘*that a Tertiary flora was contemporaneous with a Cretaceous fauna, establishing an uninterrupted succession of life across what is generally regarded as one of the greatest breaks in geological time,” he took exception, as it did not appear to exactly conform to facts.
Fic. 102.—Frederic Miller Endlich.

<<<Page: 680>>>

During the years 1874 to 1876 work under essentially the same conditions was continued by the Hayden survey throughout Colorado, the appropriations being $75,000 annually, with the exception of 1876, when they dropped to $65,000, The individual work of Hayden him: self becomes gradually less conspicuous in the reports issued, owing to the increased amount of administrative work.
In 1874 the party under direction of A. R. Marvine was engaged in the southern portion of North Park; that under Dr. A. C. Peale in the region bounded on the north by the Eagle and Grand rivers, on the east by the one hundred and seventh meridian, on the west by the State line, and on the south by latitude 38° 20’. The third division under A. D. Wilson, with F. M. Endlich, geologist, was assigned to what is known as the San Juan district, and the fourth, under the immediate direction of Doctor Hayden, with W. H. Holmes as artist and geologist, to the Elk Mountain region.
In the report for 1874 Hayden devoted considerable attention to the stratigraphic position of the Lignite group, a discussion of which may he referred to later. Perhaps the most striking feature brought out in the work of this year was that relative to the Elk Mountains. This range was regarded by Hayden as a grand illustration of an eruptive range, *‘the
Fig. 104.—Albert Charles Peale.
immense faults, complete overturning of thousands of feet of strata, and the great number of peaks, all composed of eruptive rocks,” indicating to him periods of violent und catastrophic action. The great thickness of sedimentary strata which had been carried to the loftiest points of the axial ridge in a nearly horizontal position he thought might be explained on the supposition that at one time the sedimentary mass rested on a floor of pasty or. semipasty iy AS granite, and that the forces in the interior — Fi. 105.— Archibald “Robertson were struggling to find vent and carried ike
upward the entire overlying mass. This description is of interest when taken in connection with one by Marvine the year previous as showing the gradual inception of the laccolithic idea afterwards worked out in detail by Holmes, Peale, and Gilbert, to which I will now refer.

<<<Page: 681>>>

In describing the Sierra La Sal south of the Gunnison in the report for 1875, Peale compared them in structure with the Elk Mountains— that is, as of eruptive origin. ‘* By this,” he wrote, ‘‘I mean that the sedimentary strata have been lifted up by eruptive rock which has broken through them in some places, and in others is seen only as the result of subsequent erosion.” As illustrative of this, he gave the figure reproduced here. (Fig. 106.)
The idea thus advanced seems to have been contagious, for in the same report Holmes described the Sierra El Late as formed of a number of distinct bodies of trachytic rock that had reached their _present horizon through closely associated vents, frequently bending.up "le : the sedimentary rocks at ee ep eee a high angle around the borders, the upturned strata including the lower part of the Middle Cretaceous shales and , portions of the Dakota ol ee OT ae ee sandstone. His obser-’ ieee maa ck panes ie vations tended to show, to quote his own words, ‘‘that there had been a sort of absorption, so to speak, of the shales, and that at least half of the
7 miles space through which the Dakota Ae ‘ me % ‘ lil Cretaceous BZA Jura Trias f=] Paleozoic = Trachyte trachyte is distributed is
Fi Sections across the SIERRA LA SAL. occupied by the crushed for lines see map on Plate V.
and metamorphosed Fie. 106.—(Aiter A. C. Peale.)
fragments of shale. As a consequence the height of the arch—such as may once have existed—would not equal the height of the trachytic mass, as only the higher layers of shale extend entirely over it. His idea regarding the formation of this mountain can be best understood by reference to fig. 107, copied from Plate 46 in the report for 1875.4 (See further on p. 622.)
@The views regarding this method of mountain formation were subsequently summed up by Peale in an article, On a Peculiar Type of Eruptive Mountains in Colorado, which was published in No. 3 of the Bulletins of the Geological Survey, May 15, 1877.

<<<Page: 682>>>

In the season of 1876 C. A. White was at work in northwest Colorado, including the area lying between the Uinta and Park ranges. F. M. Endlich was engaged in the survey of the White River district, A. C. Peale of the Grand River district, and W.H. Holmes of the Sierra Abajo and West Miguel mountains. .
In the interval between the issue of the reports for 1875 and 1876 Hayden, at the suggestion of King, had decided to call the transition group, heretofore referred to by him as Lignitic and the exact geological position of which was still in dispute, the Laramze group.
The report of this year contained little that is new or striking, the work resulting mainly in an extension of our knowledge of the geographic range of various geological formations. White, working in the Uinta region,
Sestigavehore oa Rees ee Grirtatae omnaeee aptly compared the struc-
hg oie ture of Junction Mountain
to a displacement which
might be illustrated by the
action of a large punch
F worked by machinery, the — perforated heavy iron Peeper SR Ron oe Pee pte plates being somewhat
destributed.
torn in places and nowhere clearly cut through in the process of punching. The work of White this year as a whole confirmed the view held by Hayden that
Fig. 3. Abe Povo (i THO.CO MY OSPOANLS PROCISE = ams ? Degree of arching really produced by the irregular these lignitic or Laramie in€rusions. ds, as y ar Intrusion of masses of Trachyte. bed esc they e = Kye Sierra el Late. called, are of a transitional
Fie. 107.Sections across the Sierra el Late. (AfterW.H. hpature. Holmes. ) z my The tield work for Colo-
rado was completed in 1876. The following year (1877) the work was extended northward into Idaho and Wyoming. The geological work was, as before, assigned to Drs. F. M. Endlich and A. C. Peale, with
the addition of Orestes St. John. Endlich worked in Work of Hayden in a : ‘ 2 _ Idaho and the Sweetwater region, Peale in the Green River disWyoming, 1877. ; : cae , 5 a
trict, and St. John in the Teton district.
S. H. Seudder spent two months of the year in Colorado, Wyoming, and Utah in collecting fossil insects, which were subsequently described in the thirteenth monograph of this survey. Sir Joseph Hooker, director of the Kew Gardens, England, and Prof. Asa Gray,

<<<Page: 683>>>

of Cambridge, Massachusetts, accompanied the party for a time, making valuable botanical collections.
St. John noted the overturned character of a portion of the Caribou Range and made numerous sections across the Teton Range. Peale noted that in the region of the Blackfoot Basin the structure was that of a series of anticlinal and synclinal folds, the streams sometimes occupying the synclines and sometimes the monoclines. Also that there were at least three parallel anticlinal axes having the general direction northwest and southeast.
Hayden’s twelfth and last annual report, bearing date of 1879 (1883), was issued in the form of two volumes of upward of twelve hundred pages, and included the work of the corps for the field season of 1878
and the office work until the closing up of the survey, py aoe at Heydentn which, by law, took effect June 30, 1879. The headquarters of the survey were at Cheyenne, Wyoming, as in previous years, and but four parties organized. The geological work was under the charge of W. H. Holmes, A. C. Peale, and Orestes St. John, and the paleontological work under Dr. C. A. White. Mr. Holmes made a general survey of the park, while Peale, assisted by J. E. Mushback, was occupied in making detail studies of the geyser and hot-spring localities.
The party, with St. John as geologist, surveyed the Wind River Mountains and a portion of the Wyoming and Gros Ventre ranges. The work of the topographic party in the Wind River and Grand Teton regions was hampered by their being robbed of all their animals and a portion of their outfit by hostile bands of Indians.
During the summer of 1877 Prof. S. H. Scudder, with a party, visited the Tertiary lake basin at Florissant and made an extensive collection of fossil insects, the published descriptions of which have made this region classic.
The two volumes mentioned are almost monographic as far as the hot springs and geysers are concerned, and are rendered unusually attractive for their time by the sketches and panoramas of Holmes. Peale gave a detailed description of all the springs and geysers of any importance found in the park, describing and tabulating over 2,000 of the former and 71 of the geysers. Holmes’s report was accompanied by some brief petrographic descriptions by Capt. C. E. Dutton.
Dr. F. V. Hayden was born at Westfield, Massachusetts, September 7, 1829. His father dying when he was but ten years of age and his mother
Fig. 108.—William Henry Holmes.

<<<Page: 684>>>

Marrying again, he went at the age of twelve to live with an uncle in Philadelphia, where he stayed until he was eighteen, beginning when he was sixteen to teach during the winter months in Sketch of Hayden. the district schools of the neighborhood. When eighteen, ambitious for an education and without money, he walked to Oberlin and laid his case before President Finney, of Oberlin College, who gave him such encouragement and sympathy that he. set about preparing ‘\ A himself for college, working meanwhile at whatever he found to do to pay for his support and tuition.
He entered college and graduated in 1850, paying all his. own expenses from the time he entered until graduation. These facts are mentioned, since they show the character of the man and enable one ; to understand better Hier nae Se +==| the causes of his success in after life. It is important to note, however, that, owing to his shyness and dif_idence, his fellow students did not predict for him a prominent career, notwithstandaims Wei amd =| ing his acknowledged
| ts es scholarly habits. | NE WN Sess After graduating he ies ; Bewlvat —! studied medicine and Fig. 109.—Showing Bet So ean mapped by the Hayden received the degree ot Surveys, 1870-78.
M. D. in 1853 at Albany, New York. While here he became acquainted with Prof. James Hall, and in the spring of 1853, together with F. B. Meek, went to the Bad Lands of the upper Missouri to make collections, as already noted. This trip marked the beginning not only of his scientific career but also that of his association with Meek, which lasted until the latter’s death in 1876, and, incidentally, furnished an example of uninterrupted collaboration without a counterpart in the history of American geology.
6 Great Falls
| Vail \
oat o
Livingston | (nerd
+ Glenwood Springs Leadville
set Cf OT Q SR/
A { iS {Gunnisén ENN ——+ pes I

<<<Page: 685>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum. 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 31.
Director of U.S. Geological Survey of the Territories,

<<<Page: 686>>>



<<<Page: 687>>>

Hayden’s scientific career, so promisingly begun, was,-however, interrupted by the outbreak of the civil war, when he promptly volunteered, entering the Union army as an assistant surgeon and gradually rising to become post-surgeon and surgeon in chief to the Twenty-second Division of Cavalry. In June, 1865, he resigned from the army, but was subsequently breveted lieutenant-colonel for meritorious conduct. In the sume year he was elected professor of geology and mineralogy in the University of Pennsylvania, holding this chair until 1872, when he was forced to resign, owing to his rapidly increasing duties in connection with the Geological Survey.
In 1879, after the consolidation of the various surveys, Doctor Hayden was appointed one of the geologists on the new organization. During the next four years his time was devoted mainly to the completion of the business and final publication of the reports of the Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories. His health began failing soon after his acceptance of this position, and in June, 1882, at bis own request, he was relieved from the work of supervision of printing the reports and assigned to duty in the field, spending the summers of 1883-1886 in Montana. His disease (locomotor ataxia), however, grew steadily upon him, and in 1886 he resigned on account of complete incapacity for duty, thus closing a career of nearly thirty years of actual service as naturalist, surgeon, and geologist in connection with the Government.
The apparent diffidence which impressed Doctor Hayden’s fellowstudents at Oberlin, and led them to be doubtful as to his future course in life, characterized his maturer years, and to those not well acquainted with him made it difficult to account for his success. However, enthusiasm, perseverance, and energy were qualities equally characteristic of him all his life, and what seemed to be diflidence was largely the result of his nervous temperament. The secret of his success is to be found in his enthusiastic frankness and his energetic determination to carry through whatever he undertook. He was absorbed in the work of the Geological Survey and bent all his energies to its success. Excitable in temperament and frequently impulsive in action, he was . generous toa fault, and, although ever ready to defend what he believed to be right, he was willing upon the presentation of evidence to modify his views.
He was always careful to give due credit to all who had worked in the fields he afterwards explored. In one of his reports, speaking of those who had preceded him, he says:
Any man who regards the permanency or endurance of his own reputation will not ignore any of those frontiersmen who made their early explorations under circumstances of great danger and hardship).
The same spirit actuated him in his treatment of his subordinates and co-workers. His honesty and integrity were undoubted and his work for the Government and for science was a labor of love.

<<<Page: 688>>>

606 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904. ' The following extract is from an article by Dr. Archibald Geikie, then director of the Geological Survey of Great Britain:
There can be no doubt that among the names of those who have pioneered in the marvelous geology of western North America that of F. V. Hayden will alwayshold a high and honored place. This place will be his due not only because of his own personal achievements in original exploration. His earlier work exhibits much of that instinctive capacity for grasping geological structure which is the main requisite for a field geologist. He had a keen ‘‘eye for country.”’ But he likewise possessed the art of choosing the best men for his assistants and the tact of attracting them to himself and his corps. In this way he accomplished much excellent work, keeping himself latterly in the background so far as actual personal geological investigations were concerned, and contenting himself with the laborious task of organization and supervision while he encouraged and pushed forward his coadjutors. @
In an obituary notice of Doctor Hayden, read before the American Philosophical Society, Prof. J. P. Lesley, who had known him for many years, pays him the following tribute:
He represented in science the curiosity, the intelligence, the energy, the practical business talent of the western people. In afew years they came to adopt him as their favorite son of science. He exactly met the wants of the Great West. There was a vehemence and asort of wildness in his nature as a man which won him success, cooperation, and enthusiastic reputation among all classes, high and low, wherever he went. In the wigwam, in the cabin, and in the court-house he was equally at home, and entirely one with the people. He popularized geology on the grandest scale in the new States and Territories. He easily and naturally affiliated with every kind of explorer, acting with such friendliness and manly justice toward those whom he employed as his coworkers that they pursued with hearty zeal the development of his plans.
In dealing with the public men of the country he was so frank, forcible, and direct that it was impossible to suppress or resist him. He had the western people at his back so heartily and unanimously that he was for a long time master of the scientific situation at Washington. He was a warm personal friend of some of the highest officials of the Government, who never failed to support strenuously and successfully his surveys.
I think that no one who knows the history of geology in the United States can fail to recognize the fact that the present magnificent United States Geological Survey, now under the direction of Major Powell, is the legitimate child of Doctor Hayden’s Territorial surveys.
According to Cope,’ the Sioux Indians gave to Hayden the name ‘* The-man-who-picks-up-rocks-running,” a name which was certainly descriptive of the manner in which much of his work was necessarily done. The same writer states that at one time, when engaged in the exploration of the Laramie beds of the upper Missouri, he was pursued and finally overtaken by a band of hostile Indians. Finding him armed only with a hammer and carrying a bag of rocks and fossils, which they emptied out and examined with much surprise and curiosity, they concluded he was insane and let him alone.
«Nature, XX XVII, February, 1888, pp. 326-327, >» American Geologist, I, 1888, p. 110.

<<<Page: 689>>>



<<<Page: 690>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 32.
Paleontologist.

<<<Page: 691>>>

F. B. Meek, Hayden’s collaborator, was born of Irish parentage in the city of Madison, Indiana, in 1817, and during 1848-49 served as assistant to D. D. Owen on the surveys of Iowa, Wisconsin, and
Minnesota. Afterwards (from 1852-1858) he was assistSketch of Meek. ant to James Hall at Albany, New York, and for a
portion of the time connected with the geological survey of Missouri with Prof. G. C. Swallow. As noted elsewhere, he became early associated with Hayden, and, though refusing to become officially connected with the survey, was tacitly associated with him until the time of his death. Indeed, all the invertebrate fossils collected by Hayden in his western explorations were studied and the results prepared for publication by Meek, although appearing mainly under the joint name of Meek and Hayden. ~ On leaving Albany in 1858 Meek came to Washington, where he resided during the remainder of his life, having a room in the Smithsonian building. He was moderately tall and rather slender in build, with a dignified bearing, though quite difident. During the latter part of his life he was also deaf, which caused him to avoid social gatherings almost altogether. He was never a man of robust health; indeed, during a large part of his life he was more or less an invalid. Genial, sincere, pure-minded, and honorable, such are the adjectives applied to him by his biographer. With the exception of James Hall, he is perhaps the most widely known of American paleontologists. Indeed, had Meek possessed the tremendous physique of Hall or the nervous energy of Hayden, he might have stood alone head and shoulders above most, if not all, his contemporaries. As it was, he did his best work only in the service of, or in collaboration with others, never as an organizer or leader. It is true that in his first expedition (under the patronage of Hall) to the Bad Lands he outranked Hayden, and that in numerous instances his work was of a higher order. Yet his mildness of character and lack of disposition to assert himself, until perhaps too late, caused him to almost invariably occupy a second place in any organization with which he was connected.
In 1867 there was established by Congressional action, and almost wholly through the personal efforts of Clarence King, what has since been known as the Geological Survey of the Fortieth Parallel. Dees tie L his, though subject to the administrative control of Fortieth Parallel, Gen. A. A. Humphrey of U. 8. Engineers, was under
the immediate direction of King, to whom must be given almost the entire credit of its inception and successful execution.
The immediate excuse for the survey was the desirability of ascertaining the character of the mineral resources of the country to be

<<<Page: 692>>>

traversed by the Pacific Railroad. The region explored, however, was a very extended one, reaching frem the eastern Colorado range to the Sierra Nevadas, with an average width of about 100 miles along the fortieth parallel.
. The plan of the work, as outlined by Emmons,” contemplated making a topographical map of the region on the general plan of those made at the present time, i. e., one on which the topography was indicated by contour lines rather than hachures on the hillsides, the then prevailing custom. The scale adopted was 4 miles to the inch, and the original area divided into three rectangular blocks or atlas sheets, each about 165 miles in length by 100 miles in width.” Subsequently two more blocks were surveyed, making the total area surveyed and mapped some 82,500 square miles.
The party, according to the author above quoted, rendezvoused in California in the early part of the summer of 1867, and began their work at the east base of the Sierras in August, with J. D. Hague, Arnold Hague, and 8. F. Emmons as geological assistants. Though few in number, the force was beyond question the best equipped of any that had thus far entered the field of American geology.
The winter of 1867-68 was spent at Virginia City, Nevada, in the study of the Comstock Lode, the mines of which, then but 1,000 feet in depth, had already produced some one hundred millions of dollars. The results of this work appeared in J. D. Hague’s monograph, The Mining Industry, published in 1870.
During the season of 1868 the work of the survey was pushed eastward entirely across the Great Basin to the western shore of Great Salt Lake. In that of 1869 the desert ranges of Utah, the Wasatch, and the western end of the Uinta ranges were surveyed. This completed the work as originally planned, and with headquarters at New ‘ Haven, the task of working up the collections and platting the topographic and geologic notes was undertaken.
This work was, however, abruptly interrupted in the summer of 1870 by telegraphic orders from General Humphrey, directing the party to once more take the field, Congress, without solicitation, haying appropriated money for tbe continuation of the survey. It being then too late in the season to prepare the necessary outfit for work in the high mountain regions east of the Wasatch, the season was devoted to a study of the extinct volcanoes, Mount Shasta, Mount Rainier, and Mount Hood. Among the results of this study was the discovery of the first-known active glaciers within the limits of the United States.
During the summers of 1871-72 the survey was carried eastward to the Great Plains and included an examination of the Eocene beds of
« Presidential Address, Geological Society of Washington, 1896.

<<<Page: 693>>>

the Green River Basin, the Uinta and Elk Mountains and the intervening Mesozoic and Tertiary valleys of the North Park and the Laramie Plains, the Medicine Bow Range, and the northern extension of the Front Range.
The survey made no annual or preliminary reports, and as the thorough study of the data collected consumed several years of time, some of the results obtained were anticipated by other organizations through priority of publication.
The published reports, which appeared in the form of quarto volumes, named in the order of their appearance, were: Vol. III, Mining Industry, by James D. Hague, 1870; Vol. V, Botany, by Sereno Watson, 1871; Vol. VI, Microscopical Petrography, by Ferdinand Zirkel, 1876; Vol. I, Descriptive Geology, by Arnold Hague and S. F. Emmons, 1877; Vol. IV, consisting of Parts 1 and 2, Paleontology, by F. B. Meek, James Hall, and R. P. Whitfield, and Part 3, Ornithology, by Robert Ridgeway, 1877; Vol. I, Sytematic Geology, by Clarence King, 1878; and Vol. VII, Odontornithes, by O. C. Marsh, in 1880. The first volume was accompanied by a geological atlas containing ten large double maps.
To properly summarize the work of the survey, as made known in these volumes, isa practical impossibility in the space that can be devoted to it. It was noted that, in the grand total of 120,000 feet of sedimentary accumulations found, the main divisions of Archean, Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic were all distinctly outlined by divisional periods of marked unconformity. Considered as a whole, there was a noteworthy fullness in the geological column, none of the important stratigraphical time divisions being wholly wanting, excepting some of the obscure intermediate deposits which in other localities have been found lying between the base of the Cambrian and the summit of the Archean series.
From the data furnished by Emmons and Hague, and his own observations, King felt himself able to reconstruct with a considerable degree of accuracy the topographical configurations of the Archean surface, and pictured with great clearness the growth of that portion of the American continent included within the area surveyed. He conceived that, at the close of the Archean age, there was a great mountain system built up of at least two sets of nonconformable strata, referred to Laurentian and Huronian, which was coextensive 39
Fig. 110.—Robert Parr Whitfield.
NAT Mus 1904

<<<Page: 694>>>

with the greater part of the Cordilleras.“ This, west of 117° 20’, formed a land area and to the eastward a sea bottom, upon which last, throughout the entire Paleozoic period, were conformably deposited the gradually accumulating detritus from the land, brought down by eastward-flowing rivers. These Paleozoic — sediments he found in the region of the Wasatch to be 32,000 feet in thickness, and in the extreme western limit, upward of 40,000 feet. He divided the series into four great groups: The first, which is purely detrital, being wholly of Cambrian age; the second, a_ limestone series of 11,000 feet in thickness, extending from the Cambrian to the top of the lower Coal Measures, and indicating a deep-sea deposit. Succeeding this came the Weber quartzite—a purely siliceous deposit of from six to ten thousand feet in thickness— followed by the fourth group of upper Coal Measure limestone, about two thousand feet in thickness. The entire Paleozoic series he summed up as composed of materials of two periods of mechanically
Goldeno 7 seek W/ | a ho dad’
a rings Glenwood Sp Saville Gunnison
rivet {|
al | Se 1 Fi Me Nt
Fig. 111.—Map showing area covered by the Fortieth Parallel Survey.
vier Lake
S q tl
IND.RES So
“DUCK Watley ~~
e€ Lake
“ King used the word Cordilleras to designate the entire series of mountain chains bordering the Pacific front of North America, limiting the term Rocky Mountains to the eastern front only,

<<<Page: 695>>>

accumulated detritus, interrupted by one and followed by another period of deep-sea limestone formation.
At the close of this great conformable period of Paleozoic deposition there were widespread mechanical disturbances. All the thickest part of the sediments, from the western shore line eastward to and including what is now the Wasatch, were raised above the ocean level to become a land area. East of the Wasatch the ocean bottom, with its Upper Carboniferous sediments, remained practically undisturbed.
Contemporaneous with or immediately succeeding this uplift, the old land mass to the westward went down. What was sea bottom had become land, and what was land became sea bottom. But the new land area extending from the Wasatch westward to the Havallah _range (long. 117° 30’), under the combined action of heat, cold, and mechanical action of the atmosphere, began at once to yield the materials which, in the form of sand and silt, were carried west and east to be laid down, in the first-named instance on a gradually sinking Archean bottom, until a thickness of 20,000 feet was reached, and in the last named, conformably upon a bottom of Upper Carboniferous rocks, until some 3,800 feet had accumulated.
At the close of this period of sedimentation, which includes the Triassic and Jurassic, the Western ocean with its twenty-odd thousand feet of sediments underwent a sharp folding and uplifting, whereby the shore line was pushed outward as far as the western base of the present Sierra Nevadas. The force causing this uplifting acted tangentially and was most severe in the extreme western portion, i. e., the Sierras, where, in a belt of about 50 miles width, the Triassic and Jurassic sediments were crumpled and crowded together and crushed into a mass of almost undistinguishable folds. During all this powerful disturbance in the Western sea, the region east of the Wasatch remained practically undisturbed, as before.
King’s views regarding the geographic distribution of land and water during the subsequent period of geological history were largely in harmony with those of Hayden. During the Cretaceous times he believed a Mediterranean ocean to have stretched from the eastern base of the Wasatch into Kansas. Over the bottom of that body of water an almost continuous conformable sheet of Cretaceous sediments was laid down, the greatest thickness of which was against the western shore of the ocean—that is, along-the base of the Wasatch, where were found, conformably over the Jurassic shales, about 12,000 feet of Cretaceous beds.
With the close of the Cretaceous period of sedimentation the entire area from and including the Wasatch, eastward as far as the Mississippi Valley was uplifted, and in its western portion faulted or thrown into sharp or gently undulating folds. The immediate effect of this uplifting was, first, the development of the broad level region now

<<<Page: 696>>>

occupied by the Great Plains; secondly, the outlining of the basin of the Vermilion Creek (Wasatch) Eocene lake; thirdly, the formation of the distinct folds of which the Wasatch and Uintas are the most prominent examples; and fourthly, the relative upheaval of the old Archean ranges, with all their superincumbent load. The ‘folds of the Wasatch involved a conformable series of strata extending from the base of the Cambrian to the top of the Cretaceous—in all, 44,000 feet in thickness. The astonishing and almost incredible feature of the case lies in the fact that, if King’s ideas are to be accepted, this stupendous fold, together with the one of 30,000 feet forming the Uintas, was nota gradual uplift, but of sudden and necessarily catastrophic origin, and that, before the forces of erosion had accomplished their work, there actually here existed mountain ranges from 5 to 8 miles in height.“ From the date of this elevation no marine waters have ever invaded the middle Cordilleras, the subsequent strata being, as noted by Hayden, of lacustrine origin.
Studying in detail the underlying geology, in connection with these folds, King announced the principle ‘that wherever an Archean mountain range underlay the subsequent sheets of sediment, there a true fold has taken place;” and further, that when one observes ‘‘ the continuity of the strata across such a valley
Fic. 112.—Arnold Hague, Clarence King, Samuel Franklin Emmons.
«King’s exact words are: So that, since the ocean level was banished to somewhere near its present position, the fold itself (i. e., the Wasatch) was not less than 44,000 feet in altitude. The Uinta was not so imposing a body, but its summit, before erosion began, was certainly 30,000 feet above the sea level. (Systematic Geology, p. 748.)

<<<Page: 697>>>

as that of the Laramie Plains, and then sees them sharply and suddenly rise against the foothills of the Archean, it becomes evident that the entire area of the Rocky Mountains has suffered actual lateral compression, and that the diminution of surface amounts to from 6 to 10 per cent.” When he further considered that the postArchean sedimentaries were to be regarded as a mere thin covering over the subjacent crust, he added that ‘‘this diminution of area of actual surface means an actual compression of the solid Archean shell of the earth.”
Pursuing the same line of thought, King noted that the configuration of America to-day is due to the configuration or topography of the pre-Cambrian continent. Where Archean faults or mountain chains existed, there were the lines of weakness along which later orographic movements made themselves manifest. A comparatively thin coating of sedimentary beds, for illustration, overlies the generally smooth Archean rocks of the Mississippi Valley, and here no subsequent disturbances have taken place. On the other hand, the high Archean Wasatch ridges, which were covered by 10,000 feet of sediment in post-Archean times, were again and again uplifted during the subsequent periods of disturbance.
It Was noted above that, at the close of the post-Cretaceous uplifting, the Wasatch bighland stood at an elevation of upwards of 40,000 feet. Under such extraordinary conditions rapid and intense erosion was inevitable, and in a comparatively brief period, geologically, the Vermilion Creek Eocene lake was filled with sediments derived therefrom to a depth of 5,000 feet.
Then ensued another period of disturbance, by which the western portion of these Vermilion Creek beds was upturned, while the region to the immediate west, from which their sediments had been derived, was as suddenly depressed, allowing the waters of the lake to extend themselves 200 miles westward into Nevada.
Another series of crustal movements was now inaugurated in the east, whereby the Great Plains land area also underwent a subsidence, which was most pronounced along the foothills of the Rocky Mountains and gradually died out to the eastward. This moyement marks the dividing line between the Eocene and the Miocene periods. Contemporaneously with this the entire Great Basin area, including portions of Washington, Oregon, Nevada, and California, lying to the east of the Sierras and the present Cascade Range, became depressed, and, receiving the drainage of the surrounding hills and mountains, was converted into two large Jakes which, throughout the Miocene period, were depositories of sediment from the adjacent land. Powerful and profound crustal movements at the close of the Miocene threw the beds into folds, but did not apparently raise them above the surface level of the lake. Contemporaneously with this movement the

<<<Page: 698>>>

Miocene lake of the east, through the subsidence of the surrounding — country, was so increased as to cover almost the entire province of the Great Plains.
The beginning of the Pliocene period found, then, two enormous fresh-water lakes, the one covering the basin country of Utah, Nevada, Idaho, and eastern Oregon, the other occupying the Plains province. The period was brought to an end by crustal movement which, however, affected the two areas quite differently, the sediments of the Great Basin area being broken through the middle and the halves depressed from 1,000 to 2,000 feet, while those of the Plains were bodily tilted toward the south and east. .
The result of the post-Pliocene movement in the department of the Plains was to give thereafter a free drainage .to the sea. The result in the area of the Gréat Basin, on the other hand, was to leave two deep depressions, one at the western base of the Wasatch and one at the base of the Sierra Nevada, which in Quaternary times received the abundant waters of the Glacial period and formed the two now nearly extinct lakes known as Lake Lahontan and Lake Bonneville, noted elsewhere. |
King was born at Newport, Rhode Island, in 1842, and graduated from the Sheftield Scientific School in 1862, being a member of the first class to receive degrees from that institution. The year following
his graduation he, in company with James T. Gardner, Sketch of King joined an emigrant train starting from St. Joseph, Mis-
souri, on an overland trip to California. It is stated that it was during this trip, at that time a slow and eventful one, that he conceived the idea, afterwards carried into execution, of a geological section across the entire Cordilleran system. Reaching California, he attached himself as a volunteer assistant to the State survey of California, under J.D. Whitney. Later he was connected with parties under General McDowell in the examination of the mineral resources of the Mariposa grant. It was during this expedition that he and his companion were captured by Apaches, but were fortunately rescued just as the fires were being prepared for their torture.
After the civil war and the passage of the bill subsidizing the Pacific Railroad, King recognized that the time had come for carrying out his scheme for connecting the geology of the East with that of the West and making the cross section above referred to. With this project in view he went to Washington in the winter of 1866-67, and in spite of the disadvantage of his youth—being then scarcely 25 years of age, and still more youthful appearance—he was so successful in impressing Congress with the importance of ascertaining the character of the mineral resources of the country about to be opened that not only was a generous annual appropriation voted, but King was him

<<<Page: 699>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 38.
Director of U. 8. Geological Explorations of Fortieth Parallel.

<<<Page: 700>>>



<<<Page: 701>>>

self placed in charge, subject only to the administrative control of Gen. A. A. Humphrey, as already mentioned.
The published results of this survey we have already reviewed. As described by Emmons, from whose sketch most of what is here given of the personal history of King is quoted, ‘* probably no more masterly summary of the great truths of geology had been made since the publication of Lyell’s Principles.” Making due allowance for the enthusiasm of one who was an associate and warm personal friend, attention need only be called to the fact that the entire work was consummated before its author saw his fortieth birthday, to establish once and for all King’s fame as an organizer and geologist.
Aside from the publications under this survey, King’s bibliography contains few titles, but this may mean simply that neither ink nor words were wasted. In 1877 he delivered an address at the thirty-first anniversary of the Sheffield Scientific School on Catastrophism and the Evolution of Environment, which Emmons characterized as a ‘* protest against the extreme uniformitarianism of that day.” It was naturally based largely on his Fortieth Parallel work. This uniformitarianism he described as ‘‘the harmless undestructive rate (of geological changes) of to-day prolonged backward into the deep past.” He contended that while the old belief in catastrophic changes had properly disappeared, yet geological history, as he read it, showed that the rate of change had not been uniform, as was claimed by the later school. He believed rather, as a result of his own observations, that at certain periods in geological history the rate of change had been accelerated to such a degree that the effect produced upon life was somewhat catastrophic in its nature.
One act in King’s professional career should be here referred to, although the story has often been told. It will be remembered that in 1872 there was made a reported discovery of a diamond field in southern Arizona within an area that had been gone over in the course of the work of the Fortieth Parallel Survey. King, for purely scientitic purposes, undertook a study of the region, with the purpose of discovering something regarding the matrix and the origin of the diamond. He discovered, rather, that the whole matter was a stupendous fraud; that, so far from there being a diamond mine, the ground had been ‘‘salted.” So soon as this discovery was made King started for San Francisco, traveling night and day, that he might outstrip all other possible sources of information. On his arrival he at once visited the offices of the directors of the company organized for the selling of stock, and demanded peremptorily that all issues should be stopped. To a suggestion that his announcement of the fraudulent nature of the claim be delayed temporarily, he replied: ‘* There is not money enough in the Bank of California to induce me to delay this announcement a single hour.” And it was not delayed.

<<<Page: 702>>>

By those who knew him, King is described as a man of rare charm of manner, cheerful and courteous disposition, with interests broad as civilization and sympathies catholic as humanity. A man of remarkably robust physique, he yet broke down almost in the prime of life, and died of consumption in 1901.
in 1869 Lieut. G. M. Wheeler, of the United States Engineers, was authorized to undertake a military reconnoissance for topographieal purposes in southwest Nevada and western Utah. No geologist accomWheeler’s Surveys P&nied the party until 1871, the work being purely Morhivan’ 100% topographical. In the last-named year G. K. Gilbert el aihg eh was appointed chief geologist, serving through three field seasons, with A. R. Marvine, assistant in 1871, and E. E. Howell, in 1872-73. J.J. Stevenson served as geologist with one of the parties in 1873, Jules Marcou in 1875, A. R. Conkling in 1875-1877, and J. A. Church in 1877. In 1878-79 Stevenson was again attached to the survey, with I. C. Russell as assistant. Oscar Loew served as mineralogical assistant auring 1871-1875, and E. D. Cope as vertebrate paleontologist in 1874.
The invertebrate paleontological collections made by all of the parties were worked up by Dr. C. A. White, then connected with Bowdoin College, after a preliminary examination by F. B. Meek. The results of the geological work appeared in the form of
FIG. 113.—Grove Karl Gilbert, | two quarto volumes, the first, of 681 pages,
in 1875; and the second, of 420 pages, in 1881—the latter with an appendix by Doctor White, comprising 36 pages of text and 2 plates of fossils. The paleontological report proper, comprising the work of both Cope and White, appeared under date of L877, a quarto volume of 599 pages and 83 plates of fossils.
The first vertebrate fossils from the western Triassic were described in this report, the materials having been obtained by Professor Newberry when attached to the Macomb expedition in 1855.
Gilbert applied the names Basin Range system and Basin Ranges to all that system of short mountain ridges separated by trough-like valleys which lie west of the plateau system, though not quite coincident with the Great Basin itself. This basis system of mountain uplift he regarded as due mainly to faulting and tilting, in this respect diftering with the geologists of the, Fortieth Parallel Survey, who

<<<Page: 703>>>

regarded the primary features as due to folding, the now evident faulting being a phase of late Tertiary or post-Tertiary time.“ He noted that the ranges were parallel, recurring at regular intervals and of only moderate dimensions; further, that the ridges of the system occupied loci of upheaval, and were not residua of denudation; and that the valleys were not valleys of erosion, but mere intervals between the lines of maximum uplift.
He dwelt in considerable detail upon the phenomena of erosion by wind-blown sand and silt-laden streams, and discussed the glacial phenomena and the conditions attending the drying up of the great inland lakes, applying the name Lake Bonneville, in honor of Captain Bonneville, the explorer, to the great body of fresh water that once occupied Sevier and Salt Lake valleys and of which the present bodies ‘of salt water. bearing these latter names are but the tiny residuals. Those great bodies of water, which obviously could have existed only under conditions of climate quite different from those of to-day, he
Fie. 114.—Section of the Pahranagat range at Silver Canyon. (After G. K. Gilbert.) Scale, 1-72000. Base line=level of Great Salt Lake. Q, Quartz Peak; S, Sanders Cafion.
believed to be coeval with the Glacial period of the northeastern States. He found, however, no counterpart in this region of the general glaciation of the eastern States, though there were local glaciers high upon the flanks of the mountains.
The abundant volcanic phenomena presented by the region were discussed in considerable detail and the recency of many of the lava flows noted, the conclusions arrived at being to the effect that while ‘‘ we are not merely permitted to think of a renewal of that activity as possible * * * weare logically compelled to regard it as probable.”
The geological history of the basin region as read by Gilbert was to the effect that the area was depressed below sea level from the close of
«In Chapter VII of the volume on Mining Industry (Vol. III, Report, 40th Parallel Survey, 1873) King refers incidentally to these mountains as the tops of folds whose deep synclinal valleys are filled with Tertiary and Quaternary detritus. Just how fully the problem may have been worked out in his own mind at that time is not apparent, but in 1878, after the appearance of Gilbert’s monograph, he expressed the opinion noted above. The entire subject, it may be stated, was gone over by J. E. Spurr in a paper read before the Geological Society of America in 1900 (see Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., XII, pp. 217-270), and the matter rediscussed at the winter meeting of the same society in Washington in 1902. The prevailing opinions there expressed were in accordance with the views put forward by Gilbert in 1875.

<<<Page: 704>>>

the Archean period until late Carboniferous. From the close of the — Carboniferous to the beginning of the Cretaceous a great area, including the entire plateau country, was covered by the waters of an inland sea entirely cut off from the main ocean. Only once did the sea regain . a temporary sway, bringing with it a Jurassic fauna and then retreating. Throughout the Cretaceous age the plateau country was the scene of a shallow ocean, the shores of which were ever advancing and receding. Through the upraising of some remote barrier the ocean was permanently shut out and the inland sea gradually converted into an immense fresh-water lake, and finally drained till the whole region became terrestrial. Since the expulsion of this sea the elevation of the continent which caused pas it has continued, and the plateau country, sacra eae Eugene Howen, Which from early Silurian to late Cretaceous times was slowly sinking to an extent of not less than 8,000 feet, has been bodily uplifted to its former
altitude.
Gilbert called attention to the almost entire absence of Upper Silurian and Devonian fossils in the region, and described the volcanic necks or plugs as vestiges of the flues through which the eruptions reached the surface, the last contents congealing in the flue to be subsequently exposed by erosion.
A. R. Marvine, who was attached to the party in 1871 as an astronomical assistant, was later detailed for geological work, his report on the region between Fort Whipple, New Mexico, and Tucson, Arizona, occupying pages 191-225 of the third volume.
EK. E. Howell, as a member of the survey during 1872-78, worked throughout the first season in western Utah and eastern Nevada and the plateau region of central Nevada. In 1873 he once more entered the plateau — Fic. 116—John James Stevenson. country and continued upon it to Arizona and New Mexico. His report is included in pages 227-300 of the same volume.
The party to which J. J. Stevenson was attached as a geologist was assigned in 1873 to work in southern Colorado, the region including portions of the drainage areas of the South Platte, Arkansas, Rio Grande, San Juan, Grand, and Gunnison rivers.

<<<Page: 705>>>

Stevenson devoted considerable attention to a discussion of the geological age of the Colorado lignites, which he regarded (Lesquereux to the contrary, notwithstanding), as Cretaceous. He agreed with J. L. Le Conte in regarding the Rocky Mountains as not the product of one upheaval, nor the several axes wholly synchronous in origin. The first great epoch of accelerated disturbance in the Rocky Mountain region, resulting in the permanent elevation of the surface, he thought to have been synchronous with that during which the Appalachian chain was completed. Further, that the second epoch of elevation began toward the close of the Triassic. This was followed by a period of subsidence during which the Cretaceous beds were laid down, a third period of uplift marking the close of the Cretaceous. During this latter period volcanic agencies were in a state of intense activity, and a vast sheet of lava, two to three thousand feet in thickness, flowed out over the whole region of the Grand and Gunnison rivers. During the Tertiary period still another elevation took place, sufficient to give the rocks of that age a dip of some 5 degrees.
In his report of the work for 1879 Stevenson discussed in considerable detail the relations of the Laramie group, which he regarded as but the upper part of Hayden’s Fox Hill group—that is, of very late Cretaceous age. He felt that there was no doubt but that the coal fields of the Galisteo area and of southern Colorado were of precisely the same age as those of northern Colorado and Wyoming.
J. W. Powell’s first observations on the geology of the Uinta Mountains were made in 1869, when engaged in his famous exploration of the Grand Canyon, already noted. In 1871, 1874, and 1875 he again Powell’s Geology ViSited the plateau region, the last year being accomMinataiae panied by Dr. C. A. White. The results of these later ete ela years of exploration are given in the quarto monograph on the Geology of the Eastern Portion of the Uinta Mountains, published in 1876. © This comprised, all told, 218 pages, with a large folio atlas.
The expedition of 1875 and those of the intervening years until 1880 were made under the authority of the Department of the Interior, the organization, with Powell as director, being known as the second division of the U. S. Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories. In 1877 the name was changed to the U. S. Geographical and Geological Survey of the Rocky Mountain Region.
In none of the early Powell surveys was an attempt made at systematic areal work. Certain striking and well-exemplitied features were selected and made the subject of special monographs. In the work of 1876, above noted, Powell divided the region west of the Great

<<<Page: 706>>>

Plains, east of the Sierra Nevada, and south of the North Platte, Shoshone, and Sweetwater rivers into what he designated as geological provinces—the Park Province, the Plateau Province, and the Basin Province.
‘The first named he described as characterized by broad, massive ranges, sometimes distinct and sometimes coalescing, so as to include the great parks. The mountains comprise high, lofty, snow-clad peaks which form perennial reservoirs for the multitude of streams discharging in part into the Colorado River and thence mto the Gulf of California, and in part into the Rio el ae Grande and thence Sips into the Gulf of Mex-
LS ico. eset Ss | The Plateau Proy| « __s+} ince he described as are ie characterized by many 2 \__|| tables bounded by can> yon and cliff escarpWL oS) ments, and on which oe)
9| stand lone mountains and irregular groups of mountains and short ‘anges. This region drains almost wholly into the Colorado
i Hes
Site er o Kingman —& — 4 ay ams Ee 2g) iN \ === /
was characterized by
eC ar ; River. ey S_AYIR, Ty The Basin Province YB Js
SS . aes Phoenix °
short north-and-south mountain ranges and ridges separated by desert valleys, and with a drainage which is almost wholly into the interior salt lakes and sinks.
Devoting himself mainly to the Uintas, he showed that they owed’ their present configuration to the degradation of a great upheaved block having its axis in an east-and-west direction. This upheaval, which he thought took place very slowly and gradually, began at the close of Mesozoic time and continued with slight intermissions until late Cenozoic. The total amount of upheaval in the axial region was more than 30,000 feet. Contemporaneously with upheaval the forces of degradation were at work, though not at the same rate of progress, along the axial line of uplift, the degradation amounting to more than 25,000 feet (4% miles), and the mean degradation to 3} miles; so that over the entire area of about 2,000 square miles some 7,100 cubic miles of rock material have been removed.
Fic. 117.—Showing area surveyed and mapped by the Powell survey in 1875-80.

<<<Page: 707>>>

During the years 1874, 1875, and 1876 Capt. Clarence E. Dutton, of the Ordnanee Department, U. 5S. Army, made, under direction of the Powell survey, further studies in the plateau region which had already = 8) a SRS a received attention from owell Newberry, and others, the High Plateaus, 1s previously noted. Dutton’s monograph—a Report
on the Geology of the High Plateaus of Utah, a quarto volume of 307 pages, with an atlas—appeared under date of 1880. The particular territory studied by Dutton lay in Utah, occupying a belt of country extending from a point about 15 miles east of Mount Nebo, in the Wasatch, south-southwest for about 175 miles, and having a breadth of from 25 to 80 miles—a total area of some 9,000 square miles.
As was the case with Powell, as indeed must here be the case with every observing man, Dutton was impressed with the evident signs of the vast amount of erosion which the country had undergone within comparatively recent geological times. Noting that from an area of 10,000 square miles from 6,000 to 10,000 vertical feet of strata have been removed, he fell to speculating on the probable effect upon the earth’s equilibrium of such a transference of materials. If the slow accumulation of great masses of sediment on sea bottoms brings about a gradual subsidence, why should not, he argued, the removal of a like load from any land area result in a corresponding uplift or elevation. Thus, for the second time in the history of American geology, was broached the now well-known subject of isostacy. (See p. 499.) This great erosion, it is well to note, he regarded as having taken place mainly in Miocene time, though continuing on into Pliocene.
He noted that the great structural features of the high plateaus were due to faults and monoclinal flexures; also that the one form of displacement passed continually into the other—that what is here a simple fault passed by subdivision, but a few miles farther along in its course, into what he designated as step faults, and still farther on into unbroken anticlinals. All of these grander displacements belonging to the same system he regarded as having their commencement in the latter part of Pliocene times.
The great amount of volcanic activity evident received attention, the most ancient dating back to Eocene times. The character of the voleanic products was studied and the various lavas classified ‘as (1) propylite, (2) andesite, (3) trachyte, (4) rhyolite, and (5) basalt, named here in order of their extrusion. The facts, as a whole, in this
Fie. 118.—Clarence Edward Dutton.

<<<Page: 708>>>

region he believed to be confirmatory of Richthofen’s law of the sequence of volcanic rocks.“ He noted his objections to the German method of rock classification based upon geological age. In 1876 G. K. Gilbert, then a member of Major Powell’s corps, made a study of the Henry Mountains of Utah. His report appeared in 1877 in the form of a quarto volume of 160 pages, with five Gllbert’s Workin the folding plates, and Henry Mountains, numerous plates 1875-1877. ; and figures in the text. In this he showed that these mountains were due to the intrusion from below of igneous matter through Carboniferous and Triassic strata, causing the overlying Cretaceous and Tertiary beds to arch or bulge upward, the present aspect of the mountains having resulted from erosion, whereby the overlying bulged beds and a portion of the igneous rocks as well were cut away. Phenomena of this type had been previously noted by Holmes, Peale, and Marvine, of the Hayden Survey (pp. 601, 602), but it remained for Gilbert to fully elaborate the idea, and that in a manner that must ever connect it with his name. ‘To intrusions of this type he gave the name of laccolites. In this report Gilbert showed that, in the uplifting of the sandstone to form these domes, the beds, as in the case of that of the Vermilion Cliff sandstone, might be elongated as much as 300 feet in a distance of three miles. That this could be done, and that suddenly, he believed to be due to the pressure of the overlying beds. The material was in a quasi plastic condition, and no fissures could be opened unless coincidently filled by some material which would
“Richthofen divided the Tertiary and post-Tertiary volcanic rocks into the five classes given above, and regarded them as having been the product of a regular sequence of eruptions, propylite being the most ancient and basalt the most recent.
Fic. 119.—Laccolites. (After G. K. Gilbert.)>

<<<Page: 709>>>



<<<Page: 710>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE
Director of U.S
. Geographical and Geological Survey of the Rocky Mountain Regions.

<<<Page: 711>>>

resist the tendency of the walls to flow together. This consideration led him to the conclusion that——
just as for each rock there is a crushing weight, so there is for each rock a certain depth at which it can not be fissured.
Applying this principle to faults and fissure veins he concluded that— if the fault extend toa great depth it will finally reach a region where the hardest rocks whith it separates are coerced by so great a pressure that they can not hold themselves asunder, but are forced together before the fissure can be filled by mineral deposits. Thus, there is a definable inferior limit to the region of vein formation.
This the present writer believes to be the first time the doctrine of rock flowage was put forth in America and by an American.
The matters of instability of drainage lines, planation, and formation of river terraces were discussed, and it was shown that Hitchcock’s idea of the formationof river terraces by successive periods of sedimentation (p. 462) was erroneous, such in fact being but the recorded stages of progressive erosion. In this work Gilbert used the terms consequent, antecedent, and superimposed as introduced by Powell, and showed that the drainage of the Henry Mountains, while as a whole consequent, was not so in all of its details.
The igneous rocks of the mountains were studied microscopically by Capt. C. E. Dutton, who classed them as trachytes.
Powell was born of English parentage in Mount Morris, New York, March 24, 1834, and died September 23, 1902. From childhood he manifested a deep interest in all natural phenomena and early gave
evidence of that bold and self-reliant spirit which Sketch of Powell. in later years found vent in his hazardous explora-
tion of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado. Vigorous, Impetuous, and sometimes intolerant of the opinions of others, he made warm friends and strong enemies. Rising from obscurity, without university training, indeed almost wholly self-taught, to become a bold and aggressive thinker, and finally the head of the U.S. Geological Survey in 1881, it is little to be wondered at that he became for many a target for sneers as well as an object of envy. But however much men may differ as to the value of his individual work in the geological as well as ethnological field, no one will for a moment question that it was through his efforts that others were given the opportunity to carve out their own immortality. Upon his success as an administrator his fame may safely rest.
After his retirement from the Survey in 1894 Powell limited himself mainly to abstruse psychological problems and the directorship of the Bureau of American Ethnology, which, it should be said, he had been largely instrumental in founding in 1880.
Powell served with gallantry during the civil war, rising to the
rank of major of artillery. He lost his right arm at the battle of Pittsburg Landing. |

<<<Page: 712>>>

As early as 1874 the question of the advisability of consolidating the various geological and geographical surveys west of the Mississippi was considered by a committee of the public lands, to which Congress Re ate Pe had referred amessage of the ous of the United the Geological, States relating to the matter. r he committee made
exhaustive investigations, receiving testimony from many interested parties, and undoubtedly a strong effort was.made to have the surveys conducted under the direction of the United States Army. In opposition to this was successfully arrayed almost the unanimous opinion of the scientific and professional men of the country. In 1878 the matter was again brought up, with the result of consolidating all of the various surveys under the U. S. Geological Survey, of which Clarence King was appointed director in 1879. Mr. King, however, held the office but a single year, resigning in favor of Maj. J. W. Powell.
Fie. 120.—Packing flour.

<<<Page: 713>>>



<<<Page: 714>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904,—Merrill. PLATE 35.
THE Moopy FOOTMARK QUARRY, SOUTH HADLEY, MASSACHUSETTS.

<<<Page: 715>>>

Cala cere Laois VRE, THE FOSSIL FOOTPRINTS OF THE CONNECTICUT VALLEY.
In the American Journal of Science for 1836 Prof. Edward Hitehcock described a series of fossil footprints occurring in the sandstone of the Connecticut Valley, attention to which had been called by Dr. James Deane, of Greenfield, the latter’s notice having been first directed to them by a Mr. Dexter Marsh, of Deerfield, who found them among some flagstones being laid in front of his house. Deane, who was a practicing physician, was quick to realize their geological interest and apparently also recognized his own inability to do the matter justice, and so referred them to Doctor Hitchcock.
Those first found were from a quarry in Montague; later finds were made at the so-called Lily Pond quarry at Turners Falls, a quarry which has yielded in the past and still occasionally yields the finest examples yet produced. Hitchcock described and figured tracks which he regarded as having been made by as many as seven different species of animals. His conclusions regarding their origin were, first, that they were all the impressions of biped animals; second, that they could not have been made by any known biped except birds, and third that they well corresponded with the tracks of birds in having the same ternary division of the feet, with frequently, and perhaps always, the toes terminated with claws, as do birds. To these supposed bird tracks he gave the name Ornithichnites (from opvis and tiyvoo), signifying stony bird tracks. Five years of further examination enabled him to swell the list of species to 27, which were described and figured, natural size, in his final report on the geology of Massachusetts, 1841.
Up to this last date he had found no certain evidence that any of the tracks were made by quadrupeds, yet a considerable proportion of them bore so strong a resemblance to saurian reptiles that he denominated them sauwroidichnites, or tracks resembling those of saurians, intending, however, by the term merely to convey an intimation that they might prove reptilian. To the others he now applied the name ornithoidichnites, or tracks resembling those of birds. To animal tracks of all kinds, and of whatever nature he proposed the general name échnolites.
At the April meeting, 1842, of the American Association of Geologists, Hitchcock brought the matter up once more, describing tive new species, one of which, VY. fuberosa, from Pompton, New Jersey, was the first thus far found outside of the Connecticut Valley.
NAT Mus 1904——40 25

<<<Page: 716>>>

In this same paper he also announced the finding of tracks which afforded the first ‘‘certain evidence that any of the numerous tracks
Troportiona
of the ORNITHICHITES,
Fic. 121.—Fossil foot prints (After Edward Hitchcock.)
O géganteus GLEE
upon the sandstone of the Connecticut Valley were made by a quadruped,” though he had suspected that such might be the case. These probable quadrupedal tracks he described under the name Sauroidich

<<<Page: 717>>>

nites dewey, and it was suggested that they were comparable with the Cheiother‘um, an amphibian found in the European Keuper beds (Triassic). This discovery, naturally, raised again the question as to the possible quadrupedal nature of the others described, but, with characteristic conservatism, he still refrained from committing himself, simply noting that it would be ‘‘ contrary to the cautious spirit of science” to.decide on the evidence then at hand as to their exact nature, and he therefore adhered to the course adopted in his previous report, and classified all under the names as ornithoidichnites andsauroidichnites, as before.
It is scarcely necessary to remark that the discovery of these tracks excited a very lively interest both at home and abroad, and references and suggestions regarding them multiplied in the geological literature of the day. Thus, in the American Journal of Science, XLV, 18438, under the title of Ornithichnites of the Connecticut River Sandstones and the Dinornis of New Zealand, we find given the opinions of Deane, Hitchcock, Mantell, and Richard Owen regarding their nature. Deane, in a letter to Doctor Mantell, of London, had written:
These beautiful fossils, indicating a high grade of animal existence in a period of the earth so immensely remote, may well be regarded among the wonders of paleontological science. * * * That the footsteps of the Connecticut River are, however, the authentic traces of extinct birds is confirmed by the ney lating comparisons they bear to living nature.
He wrote further of referring these footprints, as discovered by himself, to Professors Silliman and Hitchcock, both of whom admitted the plausibility of his statements, yet remained incredulous as to the inferences drawn until accurate models were submitted to them, when Professor Hitchcock had pronounced his unqualified conviction that the footprints were those of birds. Doctor Mantell in his reply to Doctor Deane seems to have himself accepted the opinion of their bird-like nature, and stated further that at first both Professors Owen and Murchison were in doubt as to whether they were made by birds or reptiles. Mr. Lyell, however, stated his conviction that they were genuine ornithichnites.. Later, Professor Murchison, after considering the enormous size of the tracks which must have been made by the New Zealand moas, *‘ confessed that the gigantic bones from New Zealand, evincing as they did most unequivocally the existence even in our own times of birds as large as any required by the American footmarks, had removed his skepticism, and that he had no hesitation in declaring his belief that the orn’thichnites had been produced by the imprints of the feet of birds which had walked over the rocks when ina soft and impressible state.” ‘‘An opinion,” adds Mantell, ‘in which I entirely concur.”
Dr. Richard Owen, too, in a letter to Professor Silliman, under date of March 16, 1843, after calling attention to the need of caution in

<<<Page: 718>>>

assuming the existence of highly organized birds at so early a period, particularly when there were known to be large reptiles which might make tracks very similar, went on to speak of the then recently described Dinornis “ of New Zealand, and wrote as follows:
It seems most reasonable, therefore, to conclude that the ornithichnites are the impressions of feet of birds which had the same low grade of organization as the Apteryx and Dinornis of New Zealand, and this Jatter may be regarded as the last remnants of an apterous race of birds which seems to have flourished in the epoch of the New Red sandstone of Connecticut and Massachusetts.
The concluding paragraph in the article from which these abstracts have been made is interesting as showing the unqualified acceptation by Murchison of the opinions by the various authorities. Thus, he is quoted as having said:
From this moment, then, I am prepared to admit the value of the reasoning of Doctor Hitchcock and of the original discoverer, Dr. James Deane, who, it appears by the clear and modest paper laid before us (by Doctor Mantell), was the first person to call the attention of the professor to the phenomenon, expressing then his own belief, from what he saw in existing nature, that the footprints were made by birds. Let us now hope, therefore, that the last vestiges of doubt may be removed by the discovery of the bones of some fossil Dinornis. In the meantime let us honor the great moral courage of Professor Hitchcock in throwing down his opinions before an incredulous public.
About this time Doctor Deane, evidently becoming dissatisfied with the position he was likely to occupy in the discussion, began to himself publish descriptions, his first paper appearing in the American Journal of Science, XLVI, 1844, where he figured a slab some 6 by 8 feet in dimensions containing over 75 impressions. He did not, however, attempt any scientific description of the same, and referred to them as Ornithichnites Sulicoides, of Hitchcock.
In a paper read before the American Association of Geologists and Naturalists at Washington in May, 1844, Doctor Hitchcock took the subject up once more and gaye a brief history of the discovery of footprints in other somes, and also certain data regarding an earlier discovery than that of Doctor Deane, referring to the fact that in 1802 Mr. Pliny Moody, of South Hadley, in Massachusetts, had turned up with the plow upon his father’s farm in that place a stone containing in relief five tracks of what pe Le now referred to as Or ae
Fig. 122.—James Deane.
a ene of ne Diora. ne giant eal of ao eniaeel it should be mentioned, first came to the notice of the scientific world through the publications of Richard Owen, the English anatomist, in 1839-1843,

<<<Page: 719>>>

ichnites fulicoides. This same slab served for several vears the purpose of a doorstep, and finally passed into the possession of Doctor Hitchcock in 1839.
An evident feeling of jealousy petween tne two gentlemen most concerned is for the first time manifested in this paper, a feeling which apparently existed until the time of Doctor Deane’s death, and which caused his friends to publish in 1861 the volume entitled Ichnographs of the Sandstone of Connecticut River, a quarto volume of 61 pages of text and 46 full-page plates.
Hitchcock covered the entire subject up to the date of his reading this paper (1844), and described the fine large specimen found in the impure limestone of Chicopee Falls, in Springfield, under the name of Ornithoidichnites redfieldii, and also several other new species. The resemblance of these to saurian remains was still recognized, but the proof was not regarded as sufficient to refer them unequivocally to quadrupeds.
In this paper Hitchcock adopted the following classification for tracks or markings of various kinds:
Order 1. Polypodichnites, or many-footed tracks.
Order 2. Tetrapodichnites, or four-footed tracks.
Order 3. Dipodichnites, or two-footed tracks.
Order 4. Apodichnites, or footless tracks.
Under the latter term he included certain marks made by fishes, mollusks, and annelid worms.
In the American Journal of Science for 1845, Doctor Deane had two papers descriptive of footprints found by him and a part of which he thought to be undoubtedly those of batrachians, agreeing in this respect with Hitchcock, as noted above. In his second paper he described and figured tracks made by a batrachian reptile, the method of progression of which, as indicated by the tracks, was by kangaroo-like jumps, the fore limbs not touching the ground. Again, in 1847, Deane had a paper dealing not merely with the tracks, but also with the supposed conditions under which they were formed, the tracks described being in part those of birds and in part those of quadrupeds. Their preservation he regarded as due to the resubmergence during seasons of flood of the mud flats upon which they were formed.
Through the same medium and this same year Hitchcock reverted once more to the subject and described two new species of thick-toed bipeds, the one renamed Brontozoum (from Ornithoidichnites) sillimanium, and the other B. parallelum. In connection with these he described a large and extraordinary track regarded as that of a batrachian and to which he gave the generic name Vfozowm. He regarded the tracks as having been preserved by being silted in by the waves of spring tides.

<<<Page: 720>>>

Again, in 1848, Doctor Deane came forward with a brief paper and figures of tracks which he thought might with propriety be referred to some member of the tailed or salamandrian family of batrachians, since he discovered markings which seemed to him as probably due to the trailing of the caudal appendage. In this same year Dexter Marsh, the man who first called Doctor Deane’s attention to the footprints in 1836, in a long letter to the editor of Silliman’s Journal, described and figured footprints which he regarded as those of a quadruped and one that walked step by step and not by leaps.
Previous to the forties Hitchcock had given names only to the tracks, but in 1845, acting under the suggestion made to him by Doctor Deane, he presented, at the meeting of the Association of American Geologists, a catalogue of the animals themselves, so far as known, a plan to which he adhered and defended in his paper in the Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, presented in 1848. In this paper he discussed with his usual caution the possibilities of identification and classification from footprints alone, and while he acknowledged that he had no great confidence in the arrangement adopted except in a few instances, went on to submit the following list of genera: .
1. Brontozoum. 9. Trienopus. 17. Lloplichnus. 2. Aithiopus. 10. Harpedactylus. 18. dacropterna. 3. Steropezoum. 11. Typopus. 19. Xiphopeza.
4. Argozoum. 12. Otozoum. 20. Ancyropus.
5. Platypterna. 13.° Palamopus. 21. Helcura.
6. Ornithopus. 14. Thenaropus. 22. [erpystezoum. T. Polemarchus. 15. Anomewpus. 23. [anpagopus. 8. Plectropus. 16. Anisopus.
Under these names he described 49 species, of which he regarded 12 as certainly quadrupeds: 4 probably lizards, 2 chelonians or turtles, and 6 batrachians. Two were annelids or mollusks; 3 of doubtful character; and the remaining 32 species were bipeds. Hight of these 32 he regarded as being thick-toed tridactylous birds; 14 others were probably narrow-toed tridactylous or tetradactylous birds; 2 were perhaps bipedal batrachians, and the remaining 8 he thought might have been birds, but would more probably turn out to be either lizards or batrachians.
It may be noted, in this connection that, in 1845, Dr. Alton King found fossil footprints in Carboniferous sandstone in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania. These, though now known to have been tracks of amphibians, were described by King under the names of Ornithichnites gallinuloides and O. culbertsoni, King accepting their birdlike origin, though assuring the reader that the ‘‘ popular error that these are the tracks of wild turkeys needs no discussion.” Certain other tracks

<<<Page: 721>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. PLATE 36.

<<<Page: 722>>>



<<<Page: 723>>>

found at the same time were recognized as those of quadrupeds, and were described under the generic name of Spheropezium.
In the Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences for 1849, Deane had again a paper on fossil footprints of the Connecticut Valley, which he regarded as in part those of birds and in part those of reptiles. These were described and figured, but no attempt at classification was made.
In 1858 Hitchcock published his Ichnology of New England, a quarto volume of some 200 pages, with 60 plates of footprints anda map of the Connecticut Valley, showing the distribution of the Triassic sandstone with its included tracks, together with a section across the valley at Springfield. This work is of importance, not merely on account of the detailed description of the tracks, but also as summing up the knowledge of the subject and the prevailing opinion regarding the origin and age of the sandstone itself. The sandstone, it should be stated, had been regarded by many geologists as owing its present dip to its having been deposited upon a sloping floor. To this view Hitchcock now took exception and could find no way of escaping from the opinion that it had been upheaved since its deposition. The age of the sandstone he considered to be undoubtedly Jurassic. He discussed in great detail the character of the tracks, and announced some thirty characteristics which he regarded as based on the principles of comparative anatomy and zoology, and which he thought afforded him reliable grounds from which to judge of the nature of an animal from its tracks. He felt that he could now decide with a good degree of confidence, first, whether the animal making the track was vertebral or invertebral; second, whether a biped, quadruped, or multiped; third, to which of the four great classes of vertebrates it belonged and, with less certainty, to what order, genus, or species the animal might be referred. It was in this work that he first proposed the term Lithichnozoa (the stony-track animals), to embrace the animals whose characters he described from their tracks. The classification adopted divided the animals into ten groups: First, —marsupialoid animals; second, puchydactylous, or thick-toed birds; third, /eptodactylous, or narrow-toed birds; fourth, ornithoid lizards or batrachians; fifth, 7ézards,; sixth, batrachians; seventh, chelonians, eighth, jishes; ninth, crustaceans, myriapods, and insects; and tenth, annelidans.
It will be noted that the Brontozoum was still included under the group of pachydactylous or thick-toed birds.
In 1863 we find Hitchcock again returning to the subject in a brief paper in the American Journal of Science for that year, in which he announced that, though having been compelled to give up ten ora dozen of his old species of footmarks, he had described over thirty new ones. Further, finding that an error had been made as to the

<<<Page: 724>>>

number of phalanges in the tracks of some of the animals classed as Lithichnozoa, he confessed to a doubt if the animals heretofore grouped under this name should be classed as birds; and, as a general conclusion, announced that in fossil footmarks birds could not be distinguished from quadrupeds by the number of phalanges. In this same paper he announced the finding of tracks which were accompanied by certain markings which were evidently made by the tail of the animal, such being particularly characteristic of his Anzsopus gracilis, an animal the quadrupedal nature of which had already been recognized. The presence of such tail-like markings in the case of the Anomupus lead him into a somewhat lengthy discussion as to the affinities of this animal, whether bird or reptile, though he was evidently inclined to regard it as most nearly related to a lower order of birds like the Archeopteryx. Insupport of this, he appended a letter from Professor Dana, in which he referred to the generalized characters of the early birds.
Here the matter would appear to have rested until Mr. Roswell Field, a farmer of Greentield, Massachusetts, on whose property the first slabs were found, for the first time in print voiced his own opinions. In the American Journal of Science, X XIX, 1860, he gave briefly and modestly the results of his experience in collecting and observing, and announced it as his opinion that the vertebral tracks should all be classed as reptilian. That the animals that made them usually walked on two feet he admitted, but contended that they could as well have walked on four had they chosen. In proof of this he added:
Fic. 123.—Skeleton of Anchisaurus colurus Marsh.
We find tracks as perfect as if made in plaster or wax which, to all appearances, as to the number of toes and the phalangial or lateral expansions in the toes, agree perfectly well with those of living birds, and still we know, by the impressions made by their forward feet, that these fossil tracks were made by quadrupeds.
In still other cases he noted traces of the tails tracking in the mud. Enumerating some of the cases in which the so-called bird tracks—as, for instance, the Ofozowm, had been proven to be reptilian—he added that this he verily believed is the place for them all. And in this he

<<<Page: 725>>>

was right, but it was not until 1893 that the actual bones of one of the reptiles were found in a sufficiently good state of preservation to allow Prof. O. C. Marsh to make the restoration shown in fig. 123. This particular form was about six feet in height, when standing, as in the figure. ‘‘One of the most slender and delicate dinosaurs yet discovered, being only surpassed in this respect by some of the smaller, bird-like forms of the Jurassic.” The creature is shown in the figure in the position it is thought to have habitually assumed. On a firm but moist beach only three-toed impressions would have been left by the hind feet and the tail would have been kept free from the ground. On a soft muddy shore the claw of the fifth digit would haye also left its mark, and perhaps the tail would have dragged. When, perhaps momentarily, he rested on his fore feet, tracks of a quite dissimilar “nature would have resulted, such as at first were assumed to be those of an animal of another species.
And so the matter rests.
Dr. James Deane was born at Coleraine, Massachusetts, February 24, 1801, and became by profession a physician, practicing at Greenfield, in the same State. Eminently successful in his practice, he nevertheless found time for study and work in other lines. ‘* Not a moment was lost that he could spare from the great labors of his profession. Late into the night was his lamp seen glittering from his-casement * * * while he was copying, with his masterly touch, these relics of an ancient era” (Bowditch). He is described as a man of few words, though of a genial and social character; of a tall and commanding form, and a well knit, compact frame; a man whose very walk conveyed an idea of strength.
Sketch of Doctor Deane.

<<<Page: 726>>>



<<<Page: 727>>>



<<<Page: 728>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Merrill. | PLATE 37.
SiR WILLIAM LOGAN.
Director of the Geological Survey of Canada.

<<<Page: 729>>>

CA AGP ADR xX.
In his work on the geology of Canada, 1863, Logan described somewhat briefly certain forms strongly resembling fossils which were discovered some three years earlier in the Laurentian rocks belonging to the Grand Calumet series of Canada.
The specimens represented parallel or concentric layers of crystalline pyroxene, the interstices of which were filled with crystalline carbonate of lime, resembling somewhat the structure of the fossil Stromatopora rugosa found in the Bird’s-eye and Black River lmestone. (See fig. 124.) Logan realized the fact that organic remains found entombed in these limestones would, if they retained their calcareous nature, be almost certainly obliterated by crystallization, and it would only be through the replacement of the original lime carbonate by some different mineral substance that there would be any chance of the forms being preserved. Nevertheless, their resemblance to fossil remains was so great that, had the specimens been obtained from the altered rocks of the Lower Silurian series instead of the Laurentian, he thought there would have been little hesitancy in pronouncing them to be true fossils.
In the Quarterly Journal of the Geologks ical Society of London for 1865 Logan fe. 124—supposed fossil from Laureturned to the subject, bringing much new __ Tentian limestone. a, Weathered
3 surface; b, vertical transverse secevidence to bear. He described the oldest tion (reduced about one-half). rocks in North America as those composing the Laurentide Mountains of Canada and the Adirondacks of New York, dividing them into the Lower and Upper Laurentian series, the united thickness of which was estimated to probably exceed 30,000 feet, and this overlaid by a third group (the Huronian), which had been estimated to be some‘18,000 feet in thickness. In both the Upper and Lower Laurentian series he found zones of limestone which had sufficient volume to constitute an independent formation.
While studying these rocks he had naturally fallen to speculating upon the possible occurrence of life during the period in which they

<<<Page: 730>>>

were being laid down, and his mind was doubtless in a mood to readily accept any promising discoveries. He recognized the fact that the mere apparent absence of fossils from the crystalline limestone did not seem to offer any proof in negation, since such might have been obliterated by metamorphic action, and he referred to the arguments of T. Sterry Hunt in favor of the possible organic origin of the beds of iron ore and metallic sulphurets in the older rocks. When, therefore, these imitative forms were brought to his attention, he candidly acknowledged himself as being disposed to look upon them as fossils, and, indeed, he exhibited them as such at the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at Springfield in 1859. Subsequently” thin — sections prepared from these were referred to Dr. J. W. Dawson, of Montreal, who was regarded as the most practiced observer with the microscope. ‘To Doctor Dawson, then, may be given a large share of whatever credit is due for the recognition of the supposed animal nature of this much disputed body. The specimens first examined by Dawson were from the base of the so-called Grenville limestone, belonging to
Fig. 125 (Nos. 1 to 4).—Small weathered specimens of Eozoon canadense. From Petite Nation. 1, Natural 3 z size, showing general form and aceryuline portion the highest zones’ ot the
above and laminated portion below; 2, enlarged casts fs . : z 2 of cells from upper part; 3, enlarged casts of cells Laut entian, the mass of the
from the lower part of the aceryuline portion, 4, enrock being composed of great large cans of sero Taye from the Iaminatel anq small irregular aggre: gates of white crystalline
pyroxene, interspersed with a multitude of small spaces, consisting mainly of carbonate of lime, many of which showed minute structures similar to that of the supposed fossil. The general character of the rock he thought conveyed the impression that it was a great foraminiferal reef in which the pyroxenic masses represented a more ancient portion, which, having died, had become much broken up and worn into cavities and deep recesses, affording a seat for a new growth of foraminifera, represented by the calcareous and serpentin-
«Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, X XI, 1865, pp. 45-69.

<<<Page: 731>>>

ous part. This in turn became again broken, leaving in some places uninjured portions of the general form.
The main difference between this foraminiferal reef and more recent coral reefs, he thought to be, that, while with the latter there are usually associated many shells and other organic remains, in the more ancient one the only remains yet found were those of the animal which built the reef.
Dawson attacked the problem from the zoologist’s standpoint. To properly understand his position and also that of those who combated his arguments, it must be remembered that the science of micropetrography was then in its infancy; in fact the possibilities of metasomatosis or alteration by indefinite substitution and replacement were only beginning to be realized by even the most advanced of mineralogists and geologists. Hence it was possible for two men, attacking the same problem from opposite standpoints—the one asa chemist and physicist and the other as a zoologist—to arrive at conclusions diametrically opposed to each other.
The specimens examined, as already indicated, were masses often several inches in diameter, presenting to the naked eye alternate lamine of serpentine, or pyroxene, and carbonate of lime, their general aspect reminding one, as already noted, of the Silu514 196-—Magnified group of canals in supplerian Hydroids of the genus Stromental skeleton of Eozoon. Taken CES matopora (see fig. 124). Under “tsfziet 3 whieh ther were fis recamtz the microscope Dawson found the lamin of serpentine and pyroxene to present no organic structure, the pyroxene being highly crystalline. The laminz of carbonate of lime, on the other hand, he thought retained distinct traces of structure which could be considered only as organic, constituting parallel or concentric partitions of variable thickness inclosing flattened spaces or chambers, frequently crossed by transverse plates or septa. The lamine themselves were frequently excavated on their sides into rounded pits, and in some places traversed by canals and penetrated by numerous minute tubuli, a structure which can be best understood by a reference to fig. 126.
According to the conclusions of Dawson, the calcareous portion represented the portion of the original shell, the serpentinous matter, on the other hand, being material infiltrated into the cavities which had been occupied by sarcode during the life of the animal. He referred

<<<Page: 732>>>

the supposed organism to the group of Rhyzopods of the order of foraminifera, and conceived that during life they were sessile by a broad base and ‘‘erew by the addition of successive layers of chambers separated by calcareous Jaminee but communicating with each other by canals or septal orifices sparsely and irregularly distributed.” He imagined, further, that the organisms grew in groups which ultimately coalesced and formed large masses penetrated by deep, irregular canals and that they continued to grow at the surface while the lower parts became dead and filled up with the infiltrated matter or sediment, assuming the aspect of a coral reef.
On account of their geological position, he proposed to designate the animals by the name of /ozoon, and these particular ones by the specific name of canadense, and in his annual address before the Natural History Society of Canada for that year, referred to the dis-
Ly in
Fic. 127.—Portion of Eozoon magnified 100 diameters, showing the original cell-wall with tubulation and the supplemental skeleton with canals. a, Original tubulated wall or ‘‘Nummuline layer;” more magnified in Fig. A; b c, intermediate skeleton with canals. (After W. B. Carpenter.)
covery as ‘Sone of the brightest gems in the scientific crown of the Geological Survey of Canada.”
The paper by Dawson was immediately followed by one by the wellknown microscopist, W. B. Carpenter, whose conclusions were in every way confirmatory of those of Dawson. To quote his own words:
That the Eozoon finds its proper place in the: foraminiferal series, I conceive to be conclusively proved by its accordancé with the great types of that series in all the essential characters of organization, namely, the structure of the shell forming the proper wall of the chambers, in which it agrees precisely with Nummulina and its allies; the presence of an intermediate skeleton and an elaborate canal system, the disposition of which reminds us most of Calcarina; a mode of communication of the chambers when they are most completely separated, which has its exact parallel in Cyclocypeus;-and an ordinary want of completeness of separation between the chambers, corresponding with that which is characteristic of Carpentaria.

<<<Page: 733>>>

The chemical and mineralogical side of the problem was taken up by T. Sterry Hunt, who found that the silicate portion, i. e., the material filling the chambers, was composed of serpentine or pyroxene in some of its forms.
It is not surprising that the finding of supposed fossil remains in rocks so old as those of the Laurentian should have excited the widest attention, and it would have been strange indeed had such conclusions been allowed to go unchallenged. In 1866% there was read before the same society a detailed account of the investigations made by Profs. William King and T. H. Rowney, of Queen’s University in Ireland. These gentlemen, although claiming to have had no misgivings at the commencement of their investigations as to the Eozoonal origin of the material, nevertheless attacked the problem from the physical and chemical rather than the biological standpoint. They examined in great detail all of the structures described by Dawson, though not having access to all his materials. Their conclusions were to the effect that (1) the so-called chamber casts or granules of serpentine were more or less simulated by minerals like chondrodite, coccolite, pargasite,etc.; (2) that the **intermediate skeleton” was closely represented both in chemical composition and other conditions by the matrix of these minerals; (3) that the proper wall of Dawson was structurally identical with an asbestic-form layer which was fre-
: . : : ‘ Fig. 128.—Magnified and restored quently found Investing the grains of chonsection of a portion of Eozoon
drodite, and that instead of belonging to the — canadense. The shaded portions show the animal matter of the
skeleton it was altogether independent of ghambers, tubuli, canals, and that part and formed an integral portion of — Pseudopodia; the unshaded por\ ° : : tions the calcareous skeleton. the serpentine constituting a chamber cast; (AfterJ. W. Dawson.) (4) that the canal system was analogous to the embedded crystallizations of native silver and other similarly conditioned minerals; and (5) that the type examples of casts of stolon passages were isolated crystals apparently of pyrosclerite. From these considerations and the perhaps even more important one that the EKozoonal structure was found only in metamorphic rocks and never in unaltered sedimentary deposits, they concluded that every one of the specialties which had been diagnosed for the Hozoon canadense was of purely crystalline origin.
Such conclusions naturally brought forth prompt rejoinders from Carpenter and others, the controversy betoming in some cases aye
# Quarterly Fi ournal of ne Gace Society of London, XXII, 1866, p. 185.

<<<Page: 734>>>

sonal and often not particularly creditable to those most interested. Thus Carpenter accused Rowney of never having seen any transparent sections of Eozoon thin enough to give a good view of its tubuliferous layer until he himself had shown it to him; and, further than that, that he had no practical knowledge of the structure of numm uline shells at best. His paper in reply to the statements of Rowney concluded with the remark that he had recently had his attention called to an oecurrence of Eozoon, which was preserved simply in carbonate of lime without any serpentine or other foreign mineral, and showing the ‘anal system very perfectly. This he felt was a conclusive answer to King and Rowney’s objection No. 3, to the effect that the canal system of Eozoon was no other than crystallization of metaxite, an allomorphic variety of serpentine.
In this same year Ferdinand von Hochstetter found in the crystalline Azoic limestone of Krumman, Bavaria, structures which, when examined by Carpenter, were pronounced by him to be unmistakably those of Kozoon.
The forms thus far found were limited to the Laurentian rocks, and were regarded by both Logan and Dawson as important ‘* horizon markers,” i. e., as affording presumptive evidence in favor of the Laurentian age of all rocks in which they might occur. The announcement by C. W. Giimbel of finding Eozoonal structures in the Hereynian eneisses of Bavaria, regarded by him as of Huronian or Cambrian age, was, therefore, both disconcerting and encouraging to the Eozoonists. Giimbel himself adopted enthusiastically the conclusions of Carpenter and Dawson as to the organic nature of the forms. ‘* This discovery,” he wrote, ‘tat once overturns the notions hitherto commonly entertained with regard ‘to the origin of the stratified primary limestones. In this discovery we hail with joy the dawn of a new epoch.”
In 1867 Sir William Logan again brought the matter to the attention of the Geological Society of London, submitting a specimen of Eozoon obtained in the township of Tudor, Hastings County, Canada, in which the serpentine minerals were quite lacking, it being, in fact, the specimen above referred to by Carpenter. This was examined and described by Dawson, who thought to be able to detect all the essential characteristics of the true Eozoon. In presenting his deseription of this new find, Dawson took occasion once more to challenge the work of Messrs. King and Rowney, and accused them of making the fundamental error of defective observation in failure to distinguish between organic and crystalline forms, an accusation which he substantiated (4) by a long argument not necessary to reproduce here.
From this time on, literature on both sides of the Atlantic contains many references and matter more or less relevant to the discussion. By many of the best informed the organic nature of the fossil was considered to be an open question, and but few American geologists, so far as I am aware, ever openly advocated it.

<<<Page: 735>>>

In 1871 Messrs. King and Rowney read before the Royal Irish Academy a paper on the geological age and structure of the serpentine marble of Skye, in which reference was made to structures closely simulating those of the Eozoon, the rock in this case being of Liassic age, and the imitative forms being the result of structural and chemical changes to which such siliceous minerals as malacolite and other varieties of lime magnesian pyroxenes were characteristically liable.
This paper was followed the same year by another on the mineral origin of the so-called Hozoon canadense, which passed in review all of the accumulated evidence both for and against, reiterating and emphasizing many of the statements made in previous papers. They held that the so-called intermediate skeleton and the chamber casts of the Eozoon were completely paralleled in various crystalline rocks containing pyroxene, the chamber casts being, in fact, composed occasionally of loganite and malacolite besides serpentine, a fact which, instead of favoring the organic origin, as claimed, was to be held as proof of their having been produced by mineral agencies.
With reference to Giimbel’s observations regarding the rounded cylindrical or tuberculated grains of coccolite and pargasite which he found in various crystalline marbles and supposed to be chamber casts, they claimed to have found upon such grains crystalline planes, angles, and edges, ‘‘a fact clearly proving that they were originally simple or compound crystals that have undergone external decretion by chemical or solvent action.”
The so-called nummulitic layer they contended had originated directly from closely packed fibrous or asbestiform serpentine, and that it occurred in cracks or fissures in both the Canadian and Connemara (Ireland) ophite. The fact that the two superposed asbestiform layers forming the upper and under proper wall and their component aciculi often passed continuously and without interruption from one chamber cast to another, they argued was totally incompatible with the idea of this nummuline layer having resulted from pseudopodial tubulation. The canal system they found to be composed of serpentine or malacolite, and to be completely paralleled by crystalline configurations in the coccolite marble of Aker in Sweden, and in the crevices of a crystal of spinel embedded in a calcite matrix from Amity, New York.
Finally, they argued that the occurrence of the Eozoon solely in crystalline or metamorphosed rocks, and never in ordinary unaltered deposits, must be assumed as completely demonstrating their purely mineral origin. The paper was aggressively argumentative from the start and contains a very scathing review of Dawson’s work, further expressing a willingness to renounce the controversy altogether, ‘fully believing that Doctor Dawson can employ his time more usefully on other subjects than that of Eozoon.”
NAT Mus 1904——41

<<<Page: 736>>>

The evidence, however, was not altogether one way, Max Schultze, after an examination of a specimen transmitted him by Dawson,, announcing that ‘‘there can be no serious doubt as to the foraminiferal nature of Hozoon canadense.” Further evidence against the organic nature of the Kozoon was, however, furnished by Mr. H. J. Carter in 1874, in a letter to Professor King, and published in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History of that year. After a somewhat elaborate comparison of the structure of Eozoon with that of known foraminifera, he wrote:
But in vain do we seek in the so-called Hozoon canadense for an unvarying perpendicular tubuli, the sine gua non of foraminiferal structure. * * * Inshort, in vain do we look for the casts of true foraminiferous chambers at all in the grains of serpentine. They, for the most part, are not subglobular but subprismatic. With such deficiencies I am at a loss to conceive how the so-called Kozoon canadense can be identified with foraminiferous structure except by the wildest conjecture...
To the conclusions of Carter, Carpenter took violent exception and accused that gentleman of not having read anything that had been written bearing upon the other side of the question; of having no comprehensive knowledge of foraminiferal structure, and of having seen only those samples of Eozoon submitted by Professor King; and hence his imputation to the effect that the organic nature of the Eozoon had no other basis than ‘*the wildest conjecture” was to be regarded ‘simply as specimens of a new method of language which might be termed Carterese.” He then went over once more certain disputed points and concluded by saying:
An experience of thirty-five years * * * has given me, I venture to think, some special aptitude for recognizing organic structure when I see it; and I never saw, in any fossil whatever, more distinct evidences of organic structure than are to be seen in these finer ramifications of the canal system of Eozoon./@
Perhaps the most important paper on the subject after those mentioned was that of Dr. Carl Moebius, of Kiel, in 1879. Moebius, it should be noted, was a zoologist and microscopist. He claimed to have been first led to the study of the Kozoon through observations of the structure of a rhyzopod found by him in 1874 on the coral reefs near Mauritius. Sections of these growths so closely resembled the representations of KEozoon sections published that he resolved to make a careful investigation of the latter for purposes of comparison with his Carpentaria raphidodendron and other foraminifera. With this object in view, he investigated upward of 90 Eozoon sections, which were placed at his disposal through the kindness of Doctor Carpenter, and many of which originally belonged to Professor Dawson.
« ‘For treweley there is noon of us all, If any wight wol claw us on the galle, That we nyl kike.”’

<<<Page: 737>>>

The result of Moebius’s work was not at all, presumably, what Carpenter was led to expect or Dawson to hope. He wrote:
My task.was to examine the Eozoon from a biological point of view. I commenced it with the expectation that I should succeed in establishing its organic origin beyond all doubt, but facts led me to the contrary. When I saw first the beautiful stem systems in Professor Carpenter’s sections, I became at once a partisan of the view of Professor Dawson and Professor Carpenter, but the more good sections and isolated stems I examined the more doubtful became to my mind the organic origin of Eozoon, until at last the most magnificent canal systems taken altogether and closely compared with foraminiferal sections preached to me nothing but the inorganic character of Eozoon over and over again.
Dawson thereupon became particularly indignant, and characterized Moebius’s work as furnishing *‘ only another illustration of partial and imperfect investigation, quite unreliable as a verdict on the question in hand.” He claimed that Moebius should have studied the fossil 77 situ and in its various stages of preservation; that he confounded the ** proper wall” with the chrysotile veins traversing many of the specimens; and that, further, in his criticisms he regarded each structure separately, and did not ‘‘consider their cumulative force when taken together.” This cumulative force he presented as follows:
1. It (i. e., Hozoon) occurs in certain layers of widely distributed limestones, evidently of aqueous origin, and on other grounds presumably organic.
2. Its general form, lamination, and chambers resemble those of the Silurian Stromatopora and its allies, and of such modern sessile foraminifera as Carpentaria and Polytrema.
3. It shows under the microscope a tubulated proper wall similar to that of the nummulites, though of even finer texture.
4. It shows also in the thicker layers a secondary or supplemental skeleton with canals.
5. These forms appear more or less perfectly in specimens mineralized with very different substances.
6. The structures of Eozoon are of such generalized character as might be expected in a very early Protozoan.
7. It has been found in various parts of the world under very similar forms, and in beds approximately of the same geological horizon.
8. It may be added, though perhaps not as an argument, that the discovery of Kozoon affords a rational mode of explaining the immense development of limestones in the Laurentian age; and on the other hand that the various attempts which have been made to account for the structures of Eozoon on other hypotheses than that of organic origin have not been satisfactory to chemists or mineralogists, as Doctor Hunt has very well shown.
Singularly enough, although found on the Western Continent, active work regarding the nature of the Kozoon was confined largely to the Canadians and English, with an occasional European collaborator, workers in the United States taking little part in the dispute so far as indicated by literature, although watching the contest with interest and becoming more or less partisans, according to the extent of their own observations or the character of the evidence offered. In 1871 Messrs. Burbank and Perry made a study of the Eozoonal

<<<Page: 738>>>

limestone occurring at Chelmsford, Bolton, and Boxboro, in Massachusetts, and arrived at the conclusion that the limestones were not themselves of a sedimentary, but a vein-like character, and that consequently the Kozoon itself, as there occurring, must be of mineral and not organic origin. Meantime the study of micro-petrography was steadily advancing, and it was noticeable that none of the workers along these newly developed lines of research were disposed to regard the Eozoon as of other than inorganic origin. Prof. T. G. Bonney, of St. John’s College, Cambridge, England, who in 1876 announced his opposition to the theory of organic origin, in 1884 visited one of the most noted of the Canadian localities in company with Doctor Dawson, and published the results of his observations in the Geological Magazine for 1895, but contented himself with describing the mode of occurrence and structure of the mass without committing himself further as to its
Fic. 129.—Diagram of eozoonal rock at Céte St. Pierre. The closely dotted part is pyroxene or serpentine; the top mass being about 2 feet 3 inches long. The zones of ‘‘ Eozoon”’ are indicated by the broken wavy lines generally surrounding these masses. The remainder of the rock is white crystalline limestone spotted with granular serpentine. (After T. G. Bonney, )
origin. From this paper was taken the accompanying figure. His conclusions so far as given were to the effect that the Kozoon often occurs in close relation, on the one hand, with a fundamental mass of almost pure pyroxene (or serpentine resulting from its alteration); or, on the other hand, with a fairly large mass of crystalline limestone containing more or less numerous grains of pyroxene or serpentine. He found nothing to lead him to think the Eozoonal specimens were blocks of foreign material metamorphosed by becoming included in either a volcanic or plutonic mass as has been suggested (see p. 645). The structure, to his mind, offered a choice between two interpretations only. It ‘Sis either a record of an organism or a very peculiar and exceptional condition of a pyroxene marble of Laurentian age.”
oe ee

<<<Page: 739>>>

The fact that the lime-magnesian pyroxenes, through a process of chemical metamorphism, passed over into serpentine, and that many of the supposed sarcode chambers were filled with granules of this material in all stages of this alteration was from time to time noted by Messrs. King and Rowney, Julien, Williams, Wadsworth, Merrill, and others. The evidence thus presented was, however, wholly without effect on Messrs. Carpenter and Dawson, who to the very last remained true to their convictions, and as late as 1895 Dawson reviewed the subject with seeming thoroughness and announced his original opinion as unchanged.
It remained, however, for J. W. Gregory and H. J. Johnston-Lavis, to give the deathblow to the theory as late as 1891 and 1894. Gregory, from an exhaustive study of Dawson’s original specimen of the so-called Tudor Eozoon, arrived at the conclusion that the same was wholly of an inorganic nature. After a careful examination of all the slides and figures, he wrote:
I must confess myself absolutely unable to recognize in the specimen any trace of the proper wall, canals, or stolon passages which are claimed to occur in Kozoon.
The case against the organic nature of the specimen did not, however, rest upon negative evidence alone. The rock was intensely cleaved and crumpled. The twin laminv in the planes of crystalline cleavage in the calcite bands were, however, not bent. Further than this, the bedding plane could be traced directly across the specimen, traversing the limestone in the supposed body cavities. These facts would seemingly prove conclusively that the supposed organic forms were not original, but wholly secondary and due to metamorphism.
Johnston-Lavis’s later work was perhaps even more decisive, since he showed that structures in every way similar could be produced by the action of heat upon limestone. His conclusions were based upon an examination of microscopic slides from blocks of limestone in the voleanic tuffs of Monte Somma. To appreciate his evidence it must be remembered that these blocks are ejected from the volcano and are found embedded in a tuff consisting largely of pumiceous lava. They occur as irregular, angular, or subangular masses ranging to more than a cubic meter, though commonly less than a quarter of that size. They have been acted upon by the heat and vapors of the volcano and more or less completely metamorphosed, giving rise to various silicate minerals, including pyroxene, olivine, epidote, mica, etc. The structure of these altered limestones is entirely different from that of the unaltered material, and corresponds in all details with those of the original Canadian specimens, in many cases, on account of their freshness, exhibiting some of the pseudo-organic structure details—such as stolon passages—in far greater perfection than does the true so-called Kozoon.

<<<Page: 740>>>

It has been noted that American workers took comparatively little part in active research, though it does not necessarily follow that examinations of the problematic bodies were not made suflicient to enable them to hold opinions of their own. It is interesting, therefore, to note that few of the active workers accepted unhesitatingly the organic theory, and many of them rejected it entirely. The consensus of opinion to-day is so decidedly against the organic nature of the body that it may be considered as practically settled, although Dana, in the latest issue of his Manual, includes a copy of one of Dawson’s original figures, and sums up the evidence pro and con without prejudice.
There is apparently no doubt but that this simulative form is due merely to a process of chemical metamorphism, a process of indefinite substitution and replacement, technically metasomatosis, acting upon rocks which are granular aggregates of lime-magnesian pyroxenes, with more or less calcareous matter, the serpentine being, in all cases, secondary. Such an origin is suggested at once, even to the uninitiated, by reference to figures like that of Bonney’s, on page 644. Similar structures have, moreover, been noted by various observers in rocks which were unmistakably of igneous origin.
Specialization is, undoubtedly, essential to the rapid advancement of knowledge, but there is danger of specialization being carried too far— danger that the individual, through insufficient breadth of training or through too close application to his own particular hobby, may ignore the work of his neighbor along other lines, and perhaps in time become so immune as to be unable to appreciate that work, even when its details are laid before him.
In the review of the EKozoon question, much must be allowed for the erowth of science—the gradual increase in knowledge regarding both mineral structure and mineralalteration. Still, one who peruses these papers can but feel that had Messrs. Dawson and Carpenter had a little more knowledge of mineralogy they would have been less dogmatic in their assertions, and it is possible that had Messrs. King and Rowney had more knowledge of foraminiferal structure they might have been less harsh in their criticisms.
‘“*« My children,’ the chameleon cries, (Then first the creature found a tongue, ) ‘You all are right and all are wrong. When next you talk of what you view, Think others see, as well as you, Nor wonder, if you find that none Prefers your eyesight to his own.’ ”’

<<<Page: 741>>>

Cub ACERT Hak 2X THE LARAMIE QUESTION.
It will be reealled that Hayden, in his annual report for 1872, referred to the fact that during hisexplorations of the Tertiary formations along the upper Missouri River in 1854-55 he made large collections of shells and plants, many of which were quite new to science. During the succeeding years up tothe autumn of 1860 these explorations were extended and large additions made to the collections, which were described from time to time in the current literature.
The shells were all of extinct species of fresh-water origin and, while they did not appear to be positively characteristic of any age, were regarded by Meek as more nearly resembling Tertiary types than any other. The fossil plants were mostly of extinct species and regarded by Newberry as also of Tertiary age, probably Miocene.
From evidence of this kind, accumulated during the various expeditions, Hayden had announced the conviction that these Lignitic strata, as he. called them, which had been found to occupy such vast areas in the upper. Missouri Valley—extending far southward, with very little interruption, to New Mexico, and westward into the interior of the continent—were probably all portions of one great group, interrupted here and there by mountain chains or concealed by more modern deposits, and from the identity of their fossil flora, all of Tertiary age.
He then went on to state that his studies of the lower coal beds at Bear River City, Wyoming, and Coalville, Utah, in 1868, had convinced him that these particular beds were of Cretaceous age, but admitting this, he felt, would be to admit the Cretaceous age of all the coal beds of the Northwest, and in so doing to ignore the evidence of the fossil flora altogether. The facts then at hand, he thought, seemed rather to point to the conclusion that the deposition of all the Lignitic strata began during the latter portion of the Cretaceous period and continued on into Tertiary time without any marked physi‘al break, so that many of the Cretaceous types, especially of the vertebrata, may have lingered on through the transition period, even into the Tertiary epoch. Inasmuch as this statement contains the first satisfactory recognition of the full importance of what later became known as the Laramie question, and inasmuch, further, as the dis-

<<<Page: 742>>>

cussion brought out many interesting facts and opinions relative to the proportional value of the various kinds of fossil remains as horizon markers, the subject may be dwelt upon in some detail.
It is well to anticipate, however, in order to more readily understand what is to follow, that Hayden made a fundamental error in thus assuming an identity of age for all the lignite strata. Had he realized the fact, afterwards abundantly proven, that essentially similar conditions existed at various periods in localities not widely remote from one another, and which were productive of very similar results, the so-called ‘* Laramie question,” as it is known to-day, would never have arisen. The apparently conflicting character of the fossil remains of plants and animals was, nevertheless, extremely confusing, and some discussion and verbal warfare during the gradual accumulation of the necessary data for the final settlement of the problem was bound to arise.. It will be well to note, further, that the localities from whence was derived the major portion of the evidence brought to bear were: Fort Union, Nebraska; the Judith River, on the upper Missouri, Montana; Coalville, Utah; and Bear River and Bitter Creek, in Wyoming. Incidentally, other localities in Colorado and New Mexico came in for discussion.
During the season of 1872 Lesquereux, Meek, and Cope were assigned by Hayden to work in areas which seemed to afford the most promising opportunities for deciding the question as to the precise position of the beds in the geological scale. Their reports as rendered in the annual reports for 1872-73 were widely divergent and did little more than to emphasize the existing confusion.
Lesquereux worked, of course, wholly from a paleobotanical standpoint. He explored the plant-bearing Cretaceous strata of the Dakota group and the valley of the Saline River, as well as the Smoky Hill Fork of the Kansas River and the Lignite formations of the Rocky Mountains from Trinidad to Cheyenne and along the Union Pacific Railroad to Evanston. He made extensive collections and studied the materials in great detail, comparing the forms found with those from sundry of the known geological horizons in Europe. The summary of his conclusions, as given in his own words, was to the effect —
That the great Lignitic group must be considered as a whole and well-characterized formation, limited at its base by the fucoidal sandstone, at its top by the conglomerate beds; that independent from the Cretaceous under it and from the Miocene above it our Lignitic formations represent the American Eocene.
Meek regarded the Coalville and Bear River beds as Cretaceous, but argued for the Bitter Creek beds that the entire absence among the invertebrate fossils yet found of Baculites, Scaphites, Ancyloceras, Ptychoceras, Ammonites, Gyrodes, Anchura, Inoceramus, and all of the

<<<Page: 743>>>

other long list of genera characteristic of the Cretaceous certainly left its molluscan fauna with strong Tertiary facies. When, however, he “ame to consider these fossils in their specific relation he found that all, with possibly two or three exceptions, were new to science and quite different from those yet found either at Bear River or Coalville, or, indeed, elsewhere in any of the established horizons. He felt, therefore, that he could scarcely more than conjecture from their specitic affinities to known forms what the probable age of the rocks might be in which they were found. He, however, called attention to the following facts relative to the age of the formation as found at Bitter Creek:
First. That it was conformable to an extensive fresh-water Tertiary formation above, from which it did not differ materially in lithological characters except in its containing numerous beds of coal.
Second. That it seemed also to be conformable to a somewhat differently composed group of strata below, apparently containing little, if any coal, and believed to be of Cretaceous age.
Third. That it showed no essential difference of lithological characters from the Cretaceous coal-bearing rocks at Bear River and Coalville.
Fourth. (Omitting references to Lesquereux’s determinations) that all its animal remains thus far known were specifically different from any of those found in any other formation of this region, with possibly two or three exceptions.
Fifth. That all its known invertebrate remains were mollusks, consisting of about thirteen species and yarieties of marine, brackish, and fresh-water types, none of which belonged to genera peculiar to the Cretaceous or any older rocks, but all to such as are alike common
_to the Cretaceous, Tertiary, and present epochs, with possibly one
exception.
Sixth. That, on the other hand, two or three of its species belong to sections or subgenera apparently characteristic of the EoceneTertiary of Europe, and even very closely allied to species of that age found in the Paris basin, while one species seemed to be conspecific with and two congeneric with forms found in brackish-water beds on the upper Missouri containing vertebrate remains most nearly allied to types hitherto deemed characteristic of the Cretaceous.
Seventh. That one species of Anomia found in it is very similar to and perhaps identical with a Texas Cretaceous shell, while a Veaiparus, found in one of the upper beds, is almost certainly identical with the |. trochiformis of the fresh-water Lignite formations of the upper Missouri, 2 formation which has always been considered as Tertiary.

<<<Page: 744>>>

He summed up his evidence as follows: It thus becomes manifest that the paleontological evidence bearing on the question of the age of this formation, so far as yet known, is of a very conflicting nature; though aside from the Dinosaur bones (found by him at Black Butte in b872) the organic remains favor the conclusion that it is Tertiary. The testimony of the plants, however, on this point, although they doubtless represent what would be in Europe considered as clearly ¢ Tertiary flora, is weakened by the fact that we already know. that there is in Nebraska, in clearly Cretaceous rocks, a flora that was referred by the highest European authority to the Miocene.
In the report for 1873 (printed in 1874) Lesquereux returned once more to the subject and answered more or less satisfactorily various objections which had been made to his previous conclusions. He referred to the Kocene (Lower American Eocene) all the coal strata of the Raton Mountains; those of the Canyon City coal basin; those of Colorado Springs; those of the whole basin of central and north Colorado extending from Platte River or from the Pinery divide to south of Cheyenne, including Golden, Marshall, Bowlder Valley, Sand Creek, etc.; and in Wyoming, the Black Butte, Hallville, and Rock Spring coal. He considered as American Upper Eocene or Lower Miocene the coal strata of Evanston, and from identity of the characters of the flora, those 6 miles above Spring Canyon near Fort Ellis, those of the locality marked near Yellowstone Lake among basaltic rocks, and those of Troublesome Creek, Mount Brosse, and Elk Creek, Colorado. The coal from Bellingham Bay, in Washington, he would also refer to the same horizon. To the Middle Miocene he would refer the coal basin of Carbon and those of Medicine Bow, Point of Rocks, and Rock Creek; to the Upper Miocene, the coal of Elko Station, Nevada.
Concerning the evidence of invertebrates regarding the Cretaceous age of these beds, he simply remarks:
I regarded and still regard the presence of some scattered fragments of Cretaceous shells as of little moment in comparison with the well-marked characters of the flora, characters which have been wholly established by a large number of specimens obtained from all the localities referred to the Lignitie.
Cope, in his report for this same year, was inclined to agree with Hayden in thinking that the period of the deposition of the sediments of this Lignite or Fort Union group, as it was also called, was one of transition from marine to lacustrine conditions and added:
It appears impossible, therefore, to draw the line satisfactorily without the aid of paleontology, but here, while evidence of interruption is clear from the relations of the plants and vertebrate animals, it 1s not identical in the two cases, but discrepant.
He then went on to discuss the evidence as given by the various workers, and referring to Lesquereux and Newberry’s opinions, based
. cite le ie

<<<Page: 745>>>

upon the flora, to the effect that the whole series of formations is of Tertiary age, summed up his results as follows:
I regard the evidence derived from the mollusks in the lower beds and the vertebrates in the higher as equally conclusive that the beds are of Cretaceous age. There is, then, no alternative but to accept the results that a Tertiary flora was contemporaneous with a Cretaceous fauna, establishing an uninterrupted succession of life across what is generally regarded as one of the greatest breaks in geological time.
Practically the same conclusion was independently arrived at by King in his study of the Green River coal basin in connection with the surveys of the fortieth parallel.“ He wrote:
We have, then, here the uppermost members of the Cretaceous series laid down in the period of oceanic sway and quite freely charged with fossil relics of marine life; then an uninterrupted passage of comformable beds through the brackish period up ~ until the whole Green River basin became a single sheet of fresh water.
It will be seen then that the transitional character of the beds was very generally recognized, the main point in dispute from now on being that of their Upper Cretaceous or Lower Tertiary age.
A. R. Marvine, in his report for this year (1873), also discussed the problem, but somewhat guardedly, since his opportunities for obserration had confessedly been somewhat limited. He wrote, after summarizing the opinions of others:
It must be supposed, then, that either a Cretaceous fauna extended forward into the Eocene period and existed contemporaneously with an Eocene flora, or else that a flora wonderfully prophetic of Eocene times anticipated its age and flourished in the Cretaceous period to the exclusion of all Cretaceous plant formes.
Again, and much more to the point, he wrote:
Much of the confusion and discrepancy has, in my opinion, arisen from regarding different horizons as one and the same thing. It must be distinctly understood that this group as it exists east of the mountains in Colorado is very different from, and must not be confounded with, the horizon in which much of the Utah and New Mexican lignite occurs, and which belongs undoubtedly to the Lower Cretaceous; and, further, that the extended explorations of Hayden and others would seem to prove almost conclusively that the Colorado lignite group is the direct southern stratigraphical equivalent of the Fort Union group of the upper Missouri, which is considered generally to be no older than the Eocene, while Newberry asserts that it is Miocene.
To Lesquereux’s conclusions in the report for 1872, Newberry, in an article in the American Journal of Science, 1874, took exception, ‘alling in question the accuracy of many of his statements, and aftfirm“ing that, to his ‘certain knowledge,” a considerable portion of the flora he called Eocene was reaily Cretaceous and another portion Miocene. Further than that, having spent nearly two years in New Mexican explorations, he felt authorized to state that all the lignite beds yet known in New Mexico were unmistakably of Cretaceous age. While, through lack of acquaintance with the Colorado localities cited
“The third yolume, 1870.

<<<Page: 746>>>

by Lesquereux, he would not venture to doubt the truth of his assertions regarding the same, he nevertheless reminded him that: (1) The Hora of the Colorado lignite beds had almost nothing in common with that of the European Eocene, in his judgment not a single species and scarcely any genera being common to both; (2) that the tuberculated fucoid (Halymenites), considered by Lesquereux as diagnostic of the Eocene, was really in New Mexico the most characteristic fossil of the Cretaceous; and (3) that, guided by their animal remains, Professors Marsh, Meek, Cope, and Stevenson had all regarded the Colorado lignites as Upper Cretaceous.
Newberry further contended that in the plant beds which he had himself designated as Miocene the entire aspect of the flora was iden-
tical with the Miocene of Europe, and contained a very considerable ~
number of well-marked Miocene species, not one of which deserved to be called Eocene. The lignite plant beds of New Mexico, which he called Cretaceous but which Lesquereux referred to the Tertiary, were for the most part derived from the lower portions of our Cretaceous series, and were overlaid by many hundreds of feet of unquestionable Cretaceous strata in which all the typical Cretaceous forms were represented.
He further announced the principle that:
In the absence of any distinctive or unmistakably Eocene plants, if the strata which contain them (the lignite deposits) shall be found to include vertebrates or molusks which have a decidedly Mesozoic aspect, we shall have to include them in the Cretaceous system.
To Lesquereux’s claim that the testimony of his 250 species of fossil plants far outweigh that of the Cretaceous mollusks, he rejoined that these plants were probably all distinct from Kuropean Cretaceous and Eocene species and had little or no bearing on the question in hand. He acknowledged it was not impossible that the physical condition of the continent may have been such that the Cretaceous age faded gradually into the Tertiary, and that consequently some forms of Cretaceous life might be found interlocking with those of Tertiary age, but of this he demanded proof, and asserted that as yet none such had been found.
J. J. Stevenson, meeting with these same beds in his work in connection with the Wheeler Survey (1874), pronounced in favor of their Upper Cretaceous age. As for the nodose fucoid Halymenites, he agreed with Newberry that it was not indicative of their Eocene age, since it was never found with any but a Cretaceous. fauna. Neither was the evidence of the land plants acceptable to him, the materials heing mostly single leaves and in a state of preservation showing that they had been blown from trees growing near streams or on the shore, where they were washed into the sea and became associated with at
— en eee eee

<<<Page: 747>>>

least one fossil identified with the Cretaceous, and a few of which were identical with European species.
It was more reasonable, he thought, to suppose that in the later portion of the Cretaceous period the climate in our northwestern region was like that of the European Eocene than to imagine that our Cretaceous fauna is useless for determination of horizon in the narrow strip east of the mountains in Colorado, while acknowledging it to be decisively of Cretaceous age in New Mexico, the rocks being the same, but the leaves being absent.
To Newberry’s criticisms Lesquereux replied” that the Cretaceous age of the so-called halymenites sandstone had not yet been proven and could not be decided on mere affirmation; but that when Doctor _ Newberry had furnished sufficient proof or evidence on the geological
age of the lignites of New Mexico he was prepared to accept his deci sion. The quoted opinions of Marsh, Cope, and Stevenson he claimed were based on insufficient evidence. All the repeated assertions of the finding of fossil shells and bones of Cretaceous age in the lignites of Colorado, when carefully sifted down, reduced themselves to the finding of a single badly-preserved specimen of /noceramus.
He asserted that the lignitic formation, having positively a preponderance of land plants over marine animals, in other words, being composed wholly of detritus from the land or a land formation, as he styled it, the evidence presented by the fossil plants should outweigh in importance that of some Cretaceous animal remains, whose presence could be considered as of casual occurrence. Cope’s conclusions, he argued, did not in the least interfere with his own, simply proving the noncoincidence of animal and vegetable types in certain formations, but if, he added:
Tertiary and Cretaceous faunas are regarded as contemporaneous, even inhabiting the same repositories, we may more easily admit that a Cretaceous fauna and Tertiary flora have sometimes succeeded each other in alternating strata.
Lesquereux further contended that the specimens on which Doctor Newberry had relied to substantiate the sum of the opinions he advanced had become mixed and had, in reality, come from different localities and represented different horizons.
In his report for 1874 (letter of transmittal written in October, 1875) Hayden took up the matter once more, with particular reference to the results of investigations in Colorado. These he félt warranted him in drawing the following conclusions:
First. That through the upper portion of the Fox Hill group (Cretaceous) there are clear proofs of a radical physical change, usually with no break in the sequence of time. In this portion of the group
@ American Journal of Science, 1874.

<<<Page: 748>>>

are well-marked Cretaceous fossils of purely marine types and no others.
Second. That above the Fox Hill group there are about 200 feet of barren beds, which might be regarded as beds of passage to the lignitic group and which more properly belong with the Fox Hill group below. In this group of transition beds all trace of the abundant invertebrate life of the great Cretaceous series below has disappeared.
Third, in almost all cases he found, at the base of the true Lignitic group, a bed of sandstone in which the first deciduous leaves peculiar to the group occur. No purely marine mollusks pass above this horizon. Estuary or brackish-water shells are found in many localities in great abundance, but these soon disappear and are succeeded farther north by fossils of purely fresh-water origin. He added:
Whatever view we may take in regard to the age of the Lignitic group, we may certainly claim that it forms one of the time boundaries in the geological history of our western continent. It may matter little whether we call it Upper Cretaceous or Lower Eocene, so far as the physical result is concerned. We know that it plays an important and, to a certain extent, an independent part in the physical history of the growth of the continent. Even the vertebrate paleontologists, who pronounce with great positiveness the Cretaceous age of the Lignite group, do not claim that a single species of vertebrate animals passes above the horizon I have defined from the well-marked Cretaceous group below.
Peale, in his report for that year, threw a ray of light upon the subject by suggesting that the reason of the difference of opinion as to the age of the disputed beds might be the existence of two sets of lignitebearing beds close together, one belonging to the horizon of the Fox Hill beds of the Cretaceous, or possibly a little above it, and the other belonging to the horizon of the Fort Union group (Lower Kocene). He incidentally called up the question relative to the value of different types of fossils as criteria in determining the precise geological horizon.
He summed up his own conclusions as follows:
First. The lignite-bearing beds east of the mountains in Colorado are the equivalent of the Fort Union group of the upper Missouri, and are Eocene-Tertiary; also, that the lower part of the group, at least at the locality two hundred miles east of the mountains, is the equivalent of a part of the Lignitic strata of Wyoming.
Second. The Judith River beds have their equivalent along the eastern edge of the mountains below the Lignite or Fort Union group, and also in Wyoming, and are Cretaceous, although of a higher horizon than the coal-bearing strata of Coalville and Bear River, Utah. They form either the upper part of the Fox Hill group or a group called ‘‘ Number Six.”’
In his annual report to Hayden for the same year (1874, printed in 1875), Lesquereux went over all the ground once more, showing to his own satisfaction, presumably, the conclusive character of the evidence offered by fossil plant remains, and announced again his conviction to the effect that the authority of animal remains should be unquestioned

<<<Page: 749>>>

so far as it relates to marine formations, but when land formations are considered, the plant remains should be given precedence.“
Meanwhile, Dr. C. A. White, paleontologist, became connected with the Hayden survey, being assigned for his first season’s work (1877) to the area of northwestern Colorado. In this connection he came quickly in contact with the problem we have been discussing, and early committed himself in fayor of the post-Cretaceous age of the beds in question.
He argued that it was a well-known fact that the evolutional advance of the vegetable kingdom had been greater on this continent than in Europe. Hence, a student of the flora of the American strata, using a series of Kuropean standards, would naturally refer those which he found to contain certain vegetable forms to the Tertiary period, while the associated or superimposed remains of animal life might all show them to be of Cretaceous age, according to the same series of Kuropean standards.
Taking into consideration the fact that the physical changes which took place in western North America during the Mesozoic and Cenozoic periods were very gradual and without any important break, he would be led to expect to find those animals, whose existence was not necessarily affected by a change from a saline to a fresh condition of the waters, to have propagated their respective types beyond the period which those types in their culmination distinctly characterized. For this reason he felt that these perpetuated types did not necessarily prove the Cretaceous age of the strata, they being evidently thé last of their kind, and because, moreover, all the other known. fossil remains of the group indicated a later period. He would, therefore, refer the beds, which had now, according to an agreement between King and Hayden, become known as the Laramie, to a post-Cretaceous age. :
Referring again to the matter in his report for 1877, White conceded that Cretaceous types (dinosaurs) of vertebrate animals were found in the higher strata of the Laramie group and did not question the correctness of referring the plant remains even of the very lowest beds to the Tertiary; noting also that the invertebrate fossils were indectsive, since the species were new to science and could not be safely compared with those found elsewhere. Without committing himself, he then offered a suggestion in effect as follows: Since none of the American Cretaceous could be considered as equivalent to the Lower Cretaceous of other parts of the world, but must be considered as
«Marsh, it may be noted incidentally, in 1877, in discussing the problem of the boundary between the Cretaceous and Tertiary, announced that in his opinion the evidence of the numerous vertebrate remains was decisive in favor of the Cretaceous view.

<<<Page: 750>>>

Upper Cretaceous, these Laramie rocks which, if Cretaceous at all, were certainly at the very top of the Upper Cretaceous, must represent a great and important period wholly unrepresented in any other part of the world.
Further, the finding of evidence of an abundant mammalian life (Tertiary) immediately following the Laramie period, which in itself contained only Cretaceous vertebrate remains (dinosaurs), suggested to him a sudden ushering in of the Tertiary types which could be accounted for only on the supposition that such originated elsewhere, and were contemporaneously in existence with the Cretaceous forms, i. e., prior to the close of the Laramie period. Their apparent sudden appearance could then be accounted for on the supposition that. the physical barrier was removed by some of the various earth movements connected with the evolution of the continent.
To these same opinions he held in his report for 1878, adding that, if the conclusions of all the leading paleontologists regarding the Kocene-Tertiary age of the Wasatch, Green River, and Bridger groups be accepted, ‘‘ then is there additional evidence of the correctness of the view that the Laramie is a transitional group between the Cretaceous and Tertiary, partaking of the faunal characteristics of both periods.”
Hayden, in his report for this year (1878), argued that the Fort Union beds of the upper Missouri River are the equivalent of the Lignitic formation, as it exists along the base of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado, and of the Bitter Creek series west of the mountains; also that it was probable that the brackish-water beds on the Upper Missouri must be correlated with the Laramie, and that the Wasatch group, as now defined, and the Fort Union group are identical as a whole, or in part, at least.
In his report on the systematic geology of the Fortieth Parallel Survey (1878), King again attacked the advocates of the Eocene age of these beds. He reviewed the evidence and announced his convictions, as before, in favor of their being Cretaceous.
He agreed with Hayden in regarding the Laramie and underlying Fox Hill as strictly conformable, but found a very decided unconformability between the uppermost Laramie containing the dinosaur remains and the immediately overlying rocks of the Vermilion Creek group, which carried mammalian remains. The unconformity here mentioned for the first time is, with the exception of the suggestion made by Peale, perhaps the most important feature yet introduced into the discussion, and it is probable, as elsewhere suggested by King, that had Hayden seen this locality earlier, the question as to the exact position of the Laramie beds might never have arisen.

<<<Page: 751>>>

His conclusions, as summed up in his recapitulation of the Mesozoic, are as follows:
The Laramie, by its. own vertebrate remains, is proved to be unmistakably Cretaceous and the last deposit of that age, and it contains no exclusively fresh-water life. Its plants resemble European Tertiary, but its Dinosaurs are conclusive of Cretaceous age. It was the last of the conformable marine deposits of middle America. Its latest period of sedimentation was immediately followed by an energetic orographic disturbance, which closed the Mesozoic age. In that orographic action the inter-American ocean was obliterated and the Cretaceous locally thrown into great and steep folds. The following deposits over the Green River area were fresh-water lacustrine lowest Eocene strata, lain down nonconformably with the Cretaceous, except in accidental localities.
In 1885 the problem was taken up by L. F. Ward in an exhaustive paper on the Flora of the Laramie Group. This, although destructive in its criticism rather than decisive, nevertheless contained many important suggestions. After a summary of opinions held by previous workers, he wrote:
Taking all these facts into consideration, therefore, I do not hesitate to say that the Laramie flora as closely resembles the Senonian (Cretaceous) flora as it does either the Kocene or the Miocene flora, but I would insist that this does not necessarily prove either the Cretaceous age of the Laramie group or its simultaneous deposit with any of the Upper Cretaceous beds. The laws of variation and geographical distribution forbid us to make any such sweeping deductions. With regard to the first point, it is wholly immaterial whether we call the Laramie Cretaceous or Tertiary, so long as we correctly understand its relations to the beds above and below it. We know that the strata immediately beneath are recognized Upper Cretaceous, and we equally know that the strata above are recognized Lower Tertiary. Whether the first intermediate deposit be known as Cretaceous or Tertiary is, therefore, merely a question of name, and its decision one way or another can not advance our knowledge in the least.
In this, it will be noted, he followed closely the opinions already expressed by Hayden.
Other statements of Ward’s in this connection are worthy of consideration. He pointed out that there was no probability that the conditions existing during the Laramie deposition would be ever exactly reproduced elsewhere, and hence the chances were as infinity to one against the existence of other beds that should contain an invertebrate fauna identical with that of the Laramie group. Further than this, he regarded the law laid down by paleontologists that the same epochs in geologic time produced the same living forms, as quite contrary to the now well-established principles of geographical distribution.
Amidst all this confusion and conflict of opinion, the fact was becoming more and more apparent that under the term Laramze had been included beds belonging to various but not widely separated horizons. King and Hayden, it will be recalled, had believed it to contain all the coal beds of the region in which it occurs and to be sharply cireum-
Nat Mus 1904——42

<<<Page: 752>>>

scribed both above and below, the main point in dispute being whether it should be relegated to the Cretaceous or the Tertiary. As time went on, but particularly after the organization of the present survey, more careful and detailed work became possible. The Bear River beds were shown by Drs. C. A. White and T. W. Stanton, in 1891, to belong to the marine Cretaceous; the upper portion in Colorado and Wyoming was found by Cross, Hills, and Weed to be out of harmony with that beneath, and was relegated to the Eocene-Tertiary; the Laramie proper becoming more and more restricted as the work of differentiation went on.
In 1897 Drs. F. H. Knowlton and T. W. Stanton, the one a paleobotanist and the other a paleontologist, together made a personal inspection of many of the important localities, and, after passing the evidence in review, concluded that the so-called Ceratops beds of Converse County, Wyoming, should be referred to the Laramie group; that the coal-bearing series of the Laramie Plains is older than the ‘*true” Laramie, and, instead of conformably overlying the Fox Hills group, is itself overlain by it.
The Bitter Creek and Black Buttes beds they considered as belonging to the ‘‘true” Laramie, and also those of Crow Creek, Colorado, while those of Point of Rocks, in the Bitter Creek Valley, were regarded as Cretaceous (Montana). The base of the Laramie (after a review of the opinions of Hatcher, Hills, King, and Hayden) they would place ‘immediately above the highest marine Cretaceous beds of the Rocky Mountain region,” the top being marked by the Fort Union beds. In other words, the Fort Union beds are now regarded as Eocene and the lower-lying as Laramie Cretaceous.
Both these workers, it is well to note, conformed to the generally received opinion that ‘‘ marine invertebrates (fossils) are more accurate and definite horizon markers than either plants or nonmarine invertebrates, because they have a less extended vertical and a broader geographic distribution.”
O. C. Marsh, the reader will perhaps remember, had in 1891 announced the general principle that all forms of animal life are of value as horizon markers ‘‘ mainly according to the perfection of their organization or zoological rank.” Following out this principle, he regarded plants as unsatisfactory witnesses, invertebrates as much better, and vertebrates as the best of all, as offering ‘‘ reliable evidence of climatic and other geological changes.”

<<<Page: 753>>>

““Now, who shall arbitrate? Ten men love what I hate,
Shun what I follow, slight what I receive; Ten, who in ears and eyes,
Match me; we all surmise, They, this thing, and I, that;
Whom shall my soul believe%
It is presumably scarcely necessary to call attention to the fact that the older rocks of the earth’s crust are exposed, in a majority of cases, only where this crust has been disturbed through such folding and faulting as is incidental to mountain making. As a result of such processes these older rocks are, in the main, considerably altered and their origin as well as geological age at times quite indeterminable.
The attempt to fix the base of the Paleozoic strata or, in other words, to find a line of demarkation and division between the nonfossil-bearing and the most ancient members of the overlying fossiliferous strata has, therefore, proven a matter of the greatest difficulty both in America and abroad. In Great Britain and on the Continent manifestation of this is found in the voluminous literature relating to Sedgwick’s Cambrian and Murchison’s Silurian systems. In America a similar controversy was contemporaneously waged, which has come down to history under the name of the Taconic question.
In his report on the second geological district of New York, published in 1842, Ebenezer Emmons gave his first detailed account of the Taconic system. A review of the subject may well, therefore, begin with this paper, though an occasional earlier reference may he necessary.
In his report for 1838 Emmons had stated that the Potsdam sandstone was the oldest sedimentary rock occurring in the vicinity of Potsdam (New York) and that no rock intervened between it and the primary. In this opinion, to which he ever afterwards adhered, he was quite correct. Overlying the Potsdam sandstone and always in the same order he found the Calciferous sandrock, the Chazy, Bird’seye, and Trenton limestones, the Utica and Hudson River slates, ete.
An examination of the country at the foot of the Hoosac Mountains in western Massachusetts showed what appeared to him an entirely different series resting, like the Potsdam, directly upon the gneiss, but in

<<<Page: 754>>>

which none of the rocks of the previous series appeared. This series was described in his own words as below, the order of superposition
y ff
D erg 1 a Conw® ay,
Joale
SS sit Sp EN
erburn S sat Harttord\\
| i '
Pacer Ss
rtfor
Y, f. Le T Cl iene neon INN:
) ot \ 5 oye New Ha
/ ch-
= , SoH <4. a ae? yy pa
Fig. 130.—Map of original Taconic area.
ae KZ | }
villesS ton Y it
anvil ng
| reer ae > Ki
bletown
cs =
‘3 a =
being shown in the section reproduced herewith which the reader will note is given ina reversed position, the left being east and the right west (fig. 131):

<<<Page: 755>>>

1. A coarse granular limestone of various colors which I have denominated the Stockbridge limestone, taking its name from a well-known locality, one which has furnished the different parts of the Union a large portion of the white and clouded marbles which have been so extensively employed for building and other purposes in construction.
2. Granular quartz rock, generally fine grained, in firm, tough, crystalline masses of a brown color, but sometimes white, granular, and friable.
3. Slate, which for distinction I haye denominated Magnesian slate, from its containing magnesia, a fact which is distinctly indicated by the soft feel peculiar to rocks when this earth forms a constituent part.
4. Sparry limestone, generally known as the Sparry limerock.
5. A slate, which I have named Tuconic slate, and which is found at the western base of the Taconic range. It hes adjacent to the Lorrain or Hudson River shales, some varieties of which it resembles. In composition it contains more alumina and less magnesia than the magnesian slates.
The series occupied an area extending ffTom the Hoosac Mountains westward, passing over the Hoosac ell Saddle Mountain, and also over the high ridge of granular quartz known as Oak Hill, just north of the Williamstown Plain, the Taconic Mountains next west of the Massachusetts boundary, and the eastern border of New York west of this boundary to the Hudson.
To this series, which Emmons conceived to be older than the Potsdam, he proposed in 1841 to give the name Taconic, after the Taconic
Fig. 131.—Seection of Taconic eat ae aay schists; 1, foaeits quartz, or brown and white sandstone; 2, 2, Stockbridge limestone; 3,3, magnesian slate: 4, Sparry limestone; 5, Taconic slate; 6, roofing slate;.7, rough coarse siliceous beds; 8, flinty slate; 9, Hudson River shales. (After E. Emmons. )
range, elevating it to the dignity of asystem. His persistent advocacy of the actuality of this system gave rise to a controversy extending over more than half a century and equaled by none in the annals of American geology, not exceeded even by the Eozoon question noted elsewhere. Unmoved by argument, to the day of his death Emmons adhered faithfully to his ‘‘system,” although from the very first he noted its most inherent weakness—that in no case had the Potsdam sandstone been found resting upon any of its members. That this system was actually an older, lower-lying series was indicated only by the fact that neither were any of its members found intercalated with the overlying series, which always occupied the position and relationship given above
It must be remarked, by way of preliminary explanation, however, that the region, as shown by subsequent studies, is one where faulting, folding, erosion, and metamorphism have prevailed to an extent then undre: amed of, and where, as a consequence, all natural criteria had become so obscured as to make a prompt solution of the problem impossible. The science of geology grows through cumulative evi

<<<Page: 756>>>

dence.
plete observations and faulty deductions. The original section, as noted, was some fifteen miles
3ONVY nivaanon//7 91S00H/~ we
G WU TL CG g
ssrausy \
Y. a
rag 4
euoys-aury yy
eZplaqy0}g p
zuuny YZ avpnuviry Pl0j POO Ay euojs-aury \S 3 tT K Re BOVINA isvaZ2N RY WN y). ans \ YY » YS, NN “LA ‘SDV TTA |e WNOLONINNGD eu0zs-aInyy rw coal 8 oD Ne Ee NY | fy AS “A'S dia (ys
enozs-auy ly Aurvdg Lik fied
spaq
971VUA Hy Ve
9u0}s-901 Vy \ Saandg
emo}s-amry {7 Aaredg atl opmooRy,
eyes /47 araooRy, \ £ .
(I sajtjoydery yz | Xe ayes Auyj00u | SY3NHOO 218004 ( //
HSAIN ei A V/A /
Section, from Hoosic Corners to Hoosic Mountain ran
9) ro]
‘L4 0008 NiviNnoW NIVLNAOW 91SOOH OISOOHY ssa ie ssromny
snovarpis fa9a
9U0}8-OLT, } ey RIS emo}s-aury
SWvdVv? \
oy, <
ays swyav <4).
euo}srauIy
eSpyaqaeoys 7 reranqip yoru {&
zyacnt) avjnuesy / /,
qyuanaq | syooy ey ///,
yeianyye |3// ¥ [BANE |: los
sia 3937109 pH SWVITTIM [27
euojs-amuyWH esl 4%
zy1UNt) aujnuwiy *
Fig. 3
900}8-9UT 9 eSp1aqyods {/
Section, from Petersburgh to Adams,
PIS uvlssaseyy © 30/1 3A08y aaue: “13 Z Je é oosi-oost & STROH NIVLNNOW
3NI7 31ivis
910}8-aull'T Surrdg
aIBIS 9pWooRy, es
Section, trom Petersburgh to Adams, Mass. looking North.
a00}8-9Uy], eSplaqyoojs |}
Sasaaeaal HLNOS| ]
~ a0
= Fuanoys-ainry eSplaq3y0ys
uBIssnsEyy ,
avis ie fe
soqeqs weary vospny \/,
, from Berlin to Gray Lock through South Williamston.
8381S uesaaseyy
sareqs f 1D JOATY 7 uospny &
ig \\'
Section, from Lake Champla
Section XX
synda peyvadas ur Ps Sutpaaaons Z saqeqs Jean uospn er ye
“at A N
nospnyy
yoor pars BNOLIJ OLD,
adsaspaigy auoys-aUll] GoPMATT,
to Richmond, Vt. through Charlotte.
The’ greatest minds and the most acute of observers were bound, by the then existing condition of knowledge, to make incom-
in length.
(After E. Emmons.)
Fic. 182.,—Sections explanatory of the Taconic system.
The rocks were all pronounced as unfossiliferous and dipped throughout to the eastward, their relative ages being judged wholly by superposition, the Stockbridge limestone, where it rested immediately upon the @neiss, being regarded as the oldest of the series.

<<<Page: 757>>>

The first annotincement of this conclusion appears to have been made at the Philadelphia meeting of the American Association of Geologists and Naturalists, held in April, 1841. Unfortunately neither the paper nor the discussion which followed was printed in detail. It is stated by Dana, however, that the matter was discussed by H. D. Rogers, Edward Hitchcock, William Mather, James Hall, and Lardner Vanuxem, all of whom had worked in the region. | It is stated, further, that none of the gentlemen, with the exception of Vanuxem, favored the views put forward by Emmons.
During the summer following both Rogers and Hall studied the section, as described by Emmons, in the field, Rogers rendering a report to the American Philosophical Society at Philadelphia at the meeting in 1842. In this report Rogers sustained the views previously advo‘cated by Hitchcock, Hall, Mather, and himself, to the effect that the rocks were Lower Silurian (as the term was then used) extending from the Potsdam upward, but much flexed and disguised by partial metamorphism. Hall for some reasons failed to make a report at the time, though later claiming to have written out his notes very fully (see py Oc):
In his paper in the Report on the Geology of the Second District of New York, in 1842, where the system is first elaborated, Emmons referred to Rogers’s conclusions, and seemingly himself recognized the possibility of the various beds of limestone being but portions of the same bed, brought to the surface by successive uplift. He did not, however, regard the same as probable. The system as a whole he thought to be the equivalent of the Lower Cambrian of Sedgwick, the upper portion being the lower part of the Silurian system.
Although the Proceedings of the American Association of Geologists were not given in full, as already noted, the opinions of Mather regarding the Taconic have fortunately been handed down to us in his Report on the Geology of the First New York District, dated 1848. In this he made use of the term in his descriptions, but stated emphatically that the ** Taconic rocks are the same in age as those of the Champlain division, but modified by metamorphic agency and the intrusion of plutonic rock.”
In December, 1844, Emmons brought out in pamphlet form a revision of the ‘Vaconic system, with additions and an extension of its limits. This was published without change as a chapter in his Report on the Agriculture of New York, under date of 1846. The most important feature of this revision related to the finding of fossil crustacean remains in the Black slate of Bald Mountain, in Washington County, New York. These he accounted for on the supposition that the beds, instead of being the lowermost, as he first supposed, belonged in reality to the top of the series, and had come into their present position through « reversion of the strata, adopting thus in part Rogers’s

<<<Page: 758>>>

ideas as to flexures and overthrust faults. The order of succession of the strata would then stand as below, that given in the paper of 1842 being introduced for comparison. It will be at once noted, as later charged by Dana (1888), that ‘*the system is for the most part turned the other side up.”
Taconic system, 1842. Taconic system, December, 1844.
6. Stockbridge limestone. 6. Black slate, Bald Mountain.
ih Magnesian slate of Greylock—per| 5. haps a repetition of No. 3. 5. Taconic slate.
lp. Granular quartz. 4. Limestone. | 4. Sparry limestone. 3. Magnesian slate of Taconic Mountain. | 3. Magnesian slate. 2. Sparry limestone. 2. Stockbridge limestone. 1. Taconic slate. 1. Granular quartz.
The system as here outlined, Emmons argued, occupied a position inferior to the Champlain division of the New York system, or the lower division of the Silurian system of Mr. Murchison.
The fossils found in the Black slate, it should be mentioned, were Trilobites— Atops trilineatus, a form allied to TZriarthrus beckiiand Elliptocephala asaphoices, and annelid markings, chiefly those of Nerreites and Myrianites. .These were described by Hall in 1846, and the ground taken that the Afopsand Triarthrus were identical and referable to the Hudson River group, the AV/iptocephala being referred to the genus Vlenus,“ an Upper Cambrian form.
At the Boston meeting (1847) of the Association of American Geologists and Naturalists, Prof. C. B. Adams discussed the Taconic rocks of the northern part of Addison County, Vermont, a locality judged to be particularly favorable for study, since the rocks pass here from a highly to but slightly metamorphosed and disturbed condition. He exhibited sections of Snake and Bald mountains and from Lake Champlain to the Green Mountains, and thought to show that the Taconic quartz rock was probably the metamorphic equivalent of the red sandrock (regarded by Adams as belonging to the Champlain division of the New York geologists), and that the Stockbridge limestone was the equivalent of the calcareous rocks overlying the red sandrock, rather than that of the lower limestone of the Champlain division.
“Later, Olenellus of the Lower Cambrian.
ra ea A KA
Fia. 133.—Atops trilineatus.

<<<Page: 759>>>

Inasmuch as the value of the evidence furnished by the fossil remains had become largely a matter of individual opinion, a committee, of which Mr. S. S. Haldeman was chairman, was appointed at the same meeting of the association to investigate. The report, as given by this committee in the American Journal of Science for 1848, was to the effect that so far as could be determined from the fragmental character of the specimens submitted, Aéops and Triarthrus were not identical, but A. trilineatus was ‘‘a fossil characteristic of the stratum investigated and named by Professor Emmons.”
FiG. 134.—Elliptocephala asaphoides. ais a large individual much flattened by pressure; the natural joints of the slate pass through the specimen. The tail and a portion of the body are wanting. I have named this Elliptocephala asaphoides. The ellipse upon the buckler appears to be a characteristic marking, while the ribs and middle lobe resemble very strongly the same parts of the Asaphus tyrannus. In its perfect form the ellipse seems to belong to the old and perfect individual. b is the head of a small individual of the same species. The ellipse in this individual has an anterior segment not to be seen in a, which I suppose may be obliterated by age. cis a fragment of a trilobite, probably, but the ribs bear a different character from those we generally meet with.
To this report Hall naturally took exception, and in the Journal for the same year reviewed the subject and published figures giving reasons for thinking that the distinctions noted by the committee were not ‘‘actual and constant,” but merely those of individuals, and reaffirming the statement that the two forms were essentially identical. Hall was in turn replied to by Emmons, but nothing conclusive was brought forward.

<<<Page: 760>>>

In 1849 the ubiquitous Hunt entered the field, siding, as it chanced, with the opinions of the opponents of the system, though later he shifted his ground. No new facts were, however, presented, and the matter is mentioned here only on account of the characteristically emphatic and apparently decisive manner in which his opinions were expressed, however fanciful may have been their basis.
Little of consequence now occurred until 1855, when Professor Kmmons brought out his volume on American Geology, in which he made his third presentation on the subject. In this he extended the system from Maine to Georgia and subdivided it into an upper and lower portion, the fossiliferous portion being called the Upper Taconic and the nonfossiliferous the Lower Taconic. The Sparry and Stockbridge limestones were brought together as one formation, while the synclinal character of Mount Greylock was recognized and figured.
Taconic system in 1855.
Upper Taconic. fy ee SURE of Bald Mountain. 1. Taconic slate. 3: Magnesia slate. Lower Taconic.)2. Stockbridge limestone. Ii. Granular quartz.
As here given, the system, as stated by Dana with reference to that ot 1544, hada top and bottom of Cambrian rocks. The succession in the Lower Taconic was the same as in the publication of 1844.
In 1854 or 1855 trilobites related to those of Bald Mountain were found in the Black slates of West Georgia, Vermont. Passing into the hands of Zadock Thompson, the assistant in the geological survey of the State, the specimens were sent to Professor Hall,and in 1859 were figured and described as belonging to the shales of the Hudson River group, one of the minor subdivisions of the Lower Silurian system, under the names of Olenus thompsoni, O. vermontand, and Peltura holopyga, the beds being thus, in his opinion, made equiyalent to the Bald Mountain slates already noted. In this he was, however, in error. ;
The problem was not, however, confined to American soil. In 1856 there were found in the limestone belonging to the so-called gray wacke series at Point Levi, opposite Quebec, a trilobite fauna of a nature sufficient to convert the paleontologist, Elkanah Billings, of the Canadian survey, to the views of Emmons, and cause him toaftirm that the
Fig. 135.—a, Triarthus beckii; b, Triarthus eatoni.

<<<Page: 761>>>

eraywacke group lay below the Trenton in stratigraphic position.” In this view Logan at first acquiesced, but applied to the beds as there developed the name Quebec rather than Taconic, subsequently extending the name to the whole belt of Taconic rocks reaching from the St. Lawrence to the Hudson River.
In 1860 Barrande, the eminent Bohemian paleontologist and authority on the Silurian, read before the Geological Society of France a memoir in which he adopted in full the conclusions of Emmons regarding the Taconic system, pronouncing the Georgia, Vermont, trilobites as unquestionably of Primordial age and characteristic of a great Taconic system extending far below the Olenus or Paradoxides” zone.
Subsequent discoveries seemed to show that Barrande was misled through the character of the evidence available, he himself not having studied the question in the field. Be this as it may, his ac-cession to the ranks of the ‘*'Taconists” for a time greatly strengthened their cause, through sheer weight of authority, and did much to complicate the situation, while the use made of his writings and personal letters by Marcou swelled the literature and confused the question until for a time the correct solution seemed hopeless. And here it may be remarked that, however conclusive and convincing the writings of Marcou may appear, the arguments he advanced were founded almost altogether upon the works of others, or, in some cases,
Fig. 136.—Olenus thompson.
«Subsequent investigations have shown that the masses in which these fossils were found were but blocks or fragments in a conglomerate, itself a member of the Quebee group. Billings’s conversion was, however, thorough, as shown by the following:
‘ Montreal, 10th Nov., 1860. My Dear Mr. MEEK:
* * * The discovery of the Point Levi fossils, and also of those published by Hall under the name of Olenus (from Vermont), opens out a new field in American geology. I have received several letters from Barrande on the subject. In the last one received, two days ago, he says that Angelin was then in Paris, and that he had shown him both Hall’s figures and mine. Angelin agrees with him that Hall’s species, and also mine from limestone No. 1, are of the Primordial type. The Quebec rocks are undoubtedly the Taconic rocks of Emmons. It will be rare sport if Emmons, after standing alone for 25 years against the majority of the @ite (or at least those who consider themselves the élite) of American geologists, should after all be right. His unfortunate Taconic system has been annihilated and proved not to exist regularly once a year for the last twenty years, and yet it once more raises its head with a new life. I firmly believe that in the main he is right, although he may be wrong in some minor details. * * *
E. BIuuines.
UThe Paradoxides is a trilobite found in Sedewick’s Middle Cambrian, of England.

<<<Page: 762>>>

668y © REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1904.
upon no other basis than prejudice in favor of or against certain individuals. From the time of his Pacific Railroad survey work Marcou did scarcely anything in the field, but contented himself with sitting as critic upon the work of others. For this reason he was of little actual service to American geology and his writings and opinions are not quoted in detail here, although unquestionably many of his suggestions were of value.
In 1861 there was issued the final report on the geology of Vermont by Hitchcock and A. D. Hager. On paleontological evidence the Stockbridge limestone was here set down as not older than Silurian. Cross sections showed Mounts Anthony, Equinox, A¢olus, and others to have asynclinal structure, the limestone beneath and the slates above as Emmons had shown for Mount Greylock. The stratigraphy was, therefore, in favor of Emmons’s view, but the paleontology was against it and no decision was reached as to the age of the quartzite.
In 1863, the year of Emmons’s death, there appeared the first edition of Dana’s Geology. In this the Potsdam sandstone was made to include the Primordial and the equivalent of the er: of the Paradowides and the Primordial beds of Seandinavia and Bohemia. The Georgia slates were also recognized as Primordial, in this conforming to the ideas of Barrande and Emmons.
In 1869 Prof. J. B. Perry, of Vermont, entered the lists and argued in favor of the system as presented by Emmons. He was subsequently shown, through the discovery of fossils and the existence of numerous unsuspected faults and folds, to have been in error.
In 1870 the Rey. A. Wing, of Vermont, working with the avowed intention of settling the vexed question as to the age of the limestone, slates, and quartzites in the West Rutland region, found fossils in the limestone which Billings identified as probably belonging to the Chazy epoch of the Canadian (Lower Silurian) period. Still others were found, suflicient to show that the beds range from the Calciferous to and including the Trenton, and that consequently the overlying slates must be of Utica or Hudson River age, and were not limited to the (Quebec group, as Logan had supposed.
In 1872 Elkanah Billings published in the Canadian Naturalist an article on the age of the black slate and red sandrock of Vermont, in which he took occasion to refer to the Taconic system and announce his views on the subject. He contended that in the consideration of this question ‘‘nearly all of the leading geologists of North America” had ranged themselves upon the wrong side; that, while for nearly a quarter of a century Doctor Emmons stood almost alone, during the last
FIG. 187.—Olenus vermontana.

<<<Page: 763>>>

thirteen years a great revolution of opinion had come about; and that the idea that the rocks of the Taconic system were really above the Potsdam sandstone (as had been contended) had been exploded. (See letter to Meek quoted above.)
As he understood the matter at the time of writing, some of the Taconic rocks were certainly more ancient than the Potsdam, while others might be of the same age, and perhaps some of them more recent. The details, he felt, had not yet been worked out, and on account of the extremely complicated structure of the region, he ventured to say that no man at that time living would ever see a perfect map of the Taconic region. The present indications are favorable to this view of the subject.
The theory that the Taconic rocks belong to the Hudson River group, he went on to say, was an ‘*‘ enormous error” that originated in the geological survey of New York and thence found its way into the Canadian survey. The mistake was doubtless due to the extraordinary arrangement of the rocks, the more ancient strata being elevated and often shoved over the more recent, so that, without the aid of paleontology, it was impossible to assert positively that they were not the age of the Hudson River formation, as they appeared to be. The main object of his note was acknowledged to be, to show that while the error had originated in New York, it was corrected by the geological survey of Canada.
This article brought out a reply by J.D. Dana in the American Journal of Science for June, 1872, in which he called Billings’s attention to the fact that, while he, Dana, might differ with Billings about the Taconic, the differences, after all, were not material, since Billings viewed the Taconic as developed by Emmons through successive interpolations year after year, and not as first announced in 1842. He called his attention, further, to the fact that the system was based on a section fifteen miles long, made across the Taconic Range, through Williamstown and Greylock, to North Adams on the east and to Petersburg or Berlin on the west; that the dip was originally throughout to the eastward; and that the beds were destitute of fossils and their relative age judged by superposition, according to which the Stockbridge or North Adams limestone—the most eastern rock in the section—would be the most recent.
Referring to Emmons’s discovery of a fossiliferous black slate at Bald Mountain, New York, he stated that, according to Emmons’s principle adopted in 1842, this slate being to the west of the Taconic,
Fig. 188.—Elkanah Billings.

<<<Page: 764>>>

should be older than the Taconic proper, and therefore that his Taconic
system was actually newer than the fossiliferous rock. This evidently being to his (Emmons’s) mind impossible, he was thence led to think out a way by which rocks might dip eastward and still be newer to the westward and that, ‘‘ without a fact or even an argument to sustain it, he announced in his agricultural report, pubhshed in 18483, this as the true order. He thus, by a stroke of his pen, tipped over the Taconic system and got the black slate to the top with all other Taconic rocks beneath it.”
This black slate interpolation in 1843, according to Dana, thus brought mischief to the Taconic system and to much American geology and was styled .by him ‘ta most desperate blunder.” Billings’s work he regarded as eliminating the black slates from the system. Dana went on to state that the quartzite, which in the publication of 1842 occurred toward the middle of the section, was, in that of 1843, placed at the bottom of the Taconic series. Hence in this ** perfected Taconic” the rocks which Billings had shown to be nearest to the pre-Silurian of all the Taconic beds were thus placed at the remote ends of the system, the black slate at the top and the quartzite at the bottom, the former being of Primordial age and the only rock series which had yet proven to be pre-Potsdam.
Dana acknowledged that Emmons was deserving of honor for combating the old idea which had prevailed among geologists and paleontologists, to the effect that the Taconic slates belong to the Hudson River period; yet he contended that he ‘*blundered in everything else,” determining nothing correctly as regarded the age or order of succession of the rocks of the system, and ‘* his assumptions after 1842 were so great as to order of stratification and faults, and his way of sweeping distant rocks into his system so unscientific, that his opponents had abundant reasons for their doubts.” He went on to say that no one knew, even at that date, what the precise age of the slates of the Taconic Mountains might be, although Logan’s view that they belong to the Quebec seemed nearest the truth. The only way, he argued, for geologists to get out of the Taconic perplexity was to go back to Emmons’s original report and section of 1842. ‘*The name Taconic,” he wrote, ‘* belongs only to the era represented by the rocks of the Taconic Mountain,” and nowhere else.
In a series of articles in the American Journal of Science, beginning with December of 1872, Dana showed the conformability of the Taconic slates and schists of the Taconic Mountains and the Stockbridge limestone and quartzite, and on the basis of the discoveries of Wing and Billings, pronounced the limestone to be of Trenton and Chazy age and the schists and slates to be of Hudson River age, in this agreeing with Rogers. He also pointed out that the same beds of metamorphic rocks might vary as do their unconsolidated representa-
e— ee

<<<Page: 765>>>

tives, being quartzite in one part and mica-schist or even gneiss elsewhere, and hence that purely lithological evidence as to the identity of beds was practically worthless. This is a little amusing as coming from Dana, who himself accepted the presence of the mineral chondrodite in the limestones of Berkshire as evidence of the Archean age.
In 1878, T. Nelson Dale found brachiopods belonging to the Hudson River group in the Taconic slates at Poughkeepsie. In this same year W. B. Dwight began work in the **Sparry limestone” of Dutchess County, New York, finding fossils of undoubted Lower Silurian age.@ These finds and others made by S. W. Ford and I. P. Bishop in adjacent localities were made use of by Professor Dana in his subsequent papers.
Dana continued in the field at intervals until 1889, accepting as his working basis the Chazy fossils found by Doctor Wing at West Rutland, and accompanying and working conjointly with Wing throughout the period. In 1879 he showed on stratigraphic and fossiliferous evidence that the Taconic schists, so called, as developed in Dutchess and adjacent counties, were of the age of the Hudson River group, and the five limestone belts there found, but five successive outcroppings of the Lower Silurian limestone brought to the surface by a series of flexures. In this he agreed in the main with Mather.
In 1884, Hall for the first time put himself fully on record as opposed to the Taconic system on stratigraphic as well ‘as paleontological grounds. In this year he sent Dana copies of two sections of the Taconic area and manuscript notes claimed by him to have been made prior to 1845, and which gave the result of his own studies. In these Mounts Anthony and Equinox are shown to have a synclinal structure, the limestone underlying a broad synclinal of slates and schists, the former being put down as Trenton and lower, while the slates and schists were of Hudson River age. Prompt publication would have given Hall priority over the Vermont survey and others, but owing to the long delay the matter is of only historical interest.
In Volumes X XIX and XX XIII (1885 and 1887)of the American J ournal of Science, Dana again takes up the subject systematically under the vaption of Taconic Rocks and Stratigraphy, the paper being accompanied by a map of the region and numerous sections. He showed that the flexures throughout the Taconic area were of a prevailing synclinal habit; that the limestone was a continuous formation lying underneath the mountains and was overlaid conformably by strata of quartzite and quartzitic and ordinary mica schist, and underlaid along the eastern border by quartzite and mica schist also. He further showed that within the Taconic region the texture and mineral nature of the limestone beds varied geographically, the crystalline texture being coarser to the southward and eastward. He found no evidence
“Dwight later found Cambrian fossils in these same rocks.

<<<Page: 766>>>

of general overthrust faulting affecting the entire region. As to the age of the rocks he remained conservative, but still regarded the limestone as beyond doubt Lower Silurian, though whether Trenton, Chazy, or Calciferous remained an open question.
‘In the Journal for 1886 he referred again to the matter, questioning the reliability of the lithological evidence put forth by Emmons as to the identity of his Taconic rocks and those of Sedgwick’s Cambrian, asserting that ‘** geological investigation with reference to the Cambrian had not advanced so far as to make its application safe.” In this paper he reported also the finding in Canaan, New York, of Lower Silurian fossils in Sparry limestone, this being the oldest stratum of the Taconic system, as announced by Emmons in 1842. These fossils were sliced and studied by Professor Dwight, of Poughkeepsie, and 8S. W. Ford, and identified as belonging probably to the Trenton period.
In 1886, C. D. Walcott, then paleontologist of the U. S. Geological Survey, took up the subject, giving a summary of his results, with map, in the Ameri‘an Journal of Science of April and May, 1888. Walcott began with a systematic study of the slates, limestones, and quartzites of Vermont and the adjoining counties of New York, continuing his work the following season and paying particular attention to areas within the counties of Washington and Rensselaer. New York; Bennington, Vermont; and Berkshire, Massachusetts, since here were found the series of sections described by Kmmons and nearly all the Tralind SCURIBT CAT AWaiesa ML LOCHItIeS mentioned som (Ann:
Mr. Walcott showed to his own satisfaction and that of most of those having any detailed knowledge of the subject that the quartzite series belong to the Middle Cambrian, the talcose slates to the Upper Cambrian, the limestones to the Calciferous,” Chazy, and Trenton, and the slates and sandstones to the Hudson River group. He agreed mainly with Emmons in his lithological descriptions and the general dip and arrangement of the strata, but disagreed with him in his identification of the geological age of the formations of the Lower Taconic, the stratigraphic relations of his Lower and Upper Taconic, and also as to the value of the stratigraphic and paleontological identifications of age. He showed that the granular quartz, supposed by Emmons to be unfossiliferous and to lie at the base of his Taconic system, was actually fossiliferous and the equivalent of the greater portion of the
«The supposed Middle Cambrian and a part of the Calciferous here described were subsequently relegated to the Lower Cambrian.

<<<Page: 767>>>

Upper Taconic;” also that this quartzite was a shore deposit formed at the same time as were the silico-calcareous muds in deeper waters, and which Emmons had included in his Upper Taconic. The Stockbridge limestone, which Emmons had regarded as a peculiar preSilurian deposit, he showed on paleontological evidence to be the equivalent of the Trenton, Chazy, and Calciferous limestones of the Lower Silurian,’ while the Talcose slate resting conformably upon the Stockbridge limestone was found to contain graptolites of Hudson River age. Emmons’s subdivision of Upper Taconic he regarded as merely due toa repetition of certain beds brought up by an overthrust fault, as shown in fig. 140. Walcott in his summary of the paleontological evidence relative to the Taconic, stated: (1) The trilobites described by Emmons in 1844—
== Blacks S lates
UpperTaconic of Emmons.
“FaleosesS tates:
S & : S NI Ss) 8 S 9 3 iS) N
Fig, 140.—Tabular view of Taconic Strata as arranged by E. Emmons. (After GC. D. Walcott.)
1847 from the black slate were referred then to the highest member of the Taconic system on stratigraphic evidence; but (2) in 1856 were, on evidence of the same kind, referred to the lowest member. (3) That in 1859 they were referred to a pre-Potsdam position” by comparison with a fauna whose position had been stratigraphically deter ue with relation to the Silurian fauna. Further, (4) that the
a Thee are now ac eee as pees Iban er Gane
> But, later, Foerste and Wolff found Lower Cambrian forms near the base of these rocks at Rutland, Vermont.
¢ Subsequent studies seem to show that Emmons was correct in this. “ They are to-day referred to the Lower Cambrian. NAT Mus 1904——43

<<<Page: 768>>>

Nereites and other trails which Emmons regarded as typical for the Taconic had not yet been stratigraphically located, while (5) the graptolites formed part of the fauna of the Hudson terrane.
Emmions’s errors, according to Mr. Walcott, were due almost wholly
to his trust in lithological characters; his supposed unconformity -
between the Taconic and Champlain systems was based primarily on the similarity in lithologic characters of the Calciferous sand rock of the Lower Silurian, and the Calciferous sand rock of what is now known, from its fossils, to be a part of his upper Taconic; also that he confused the dark shales of the Lower Silurian with those of his upper Taconic and failed to recognize the obvious fact that the Calciferous terranes were frequently represented in geological sections by a Shale undistinguishable from that of the Hudson River; and that in several places the Trenton limestone is replaced by shale. According to T. N. Dale, Emmons was also in error in assuming that the slates along the east foot of the Taconic range dipped to the east, he having confused cleavage with bedding.
Contorted Shales SS SWS ~ ~~
Fig. 141.—Section of Bald Mountain from the south. The profile of the mountain and position of the Cambrian and Lower Silurian rocks are taken froma photograph. The ‘‘ Upper Taconic” = Cambrian slate, sandrock and limestone are shown to the right of the fault, and e=Chazy limestone; «=dark shales, interbedded between cand the Calciferous sandrock, E; s=dark argillaceous shales beneath the Calciferous sandrock. (After C. D. Walcott.)
At the eighth meeting of the American Committee of the International Geological Congress, which was held in New York in April, 1888, the subject of the subdivision and nomenclature of the American Paleozoic formations was discussed, and incidentally the matter of using the name Taconic, and its limitations, if used at all; was pretty thoroughly gone over. A considerable diversity of opinion was found to exist; although the committee at first reported in favor of retaining the name, they were apparently subsequently led to change their views upon the presentation of new evidence by Mr. Walcott. A brief summary of some of the views adopted is given below: ,
Dana objected to the retention of the name, thinking it would be regarded only as ‘‘a reminder of Emmons’s blundering work—a succession of unstudied assumptions that brought only evil to the science.” S. W. Ford favored the adoption of the name Taconic for the middle portion of the Cambrian, as the term was then used, or that marked by the presence of the fossil Olene//us. Hall felt that it might be well to retain the name for those rocks lying below the Potsdam, while C. H. Hitchcock considered the lowest Taconic as of lower Potsdam age.

<<<Page: 769>>>

Newberry, on the other hand, would retain the name Taconic as a group name for one of the minor subdivisions of the Upper Cambrian, while Alexander Winchell, from a perusal of the literature only, would retain the name for those rocks underlying the Cambrian and retaining the primordial fauna (/radoxides). The Canadian geologists, Dawson and Selwyn, both regarded the term as useless and unnecessary, while H. S. Williams and Joseph Le Conte recommended that it be dropped entirely, owing to the existing conflict of opinion.
The committee recommended that all the strata lying between the Devonian and Archean be divided into three great groups, the Silurian, Cambrian, and Taconic, the last named to be subdivided as below:
Faunal (systematic) | Rock masses of New York and New England. Stratidesignations. graphic designations.
Sub-Faunas.
Lower portion of the Calciferous sand rock of New York. St. Croix. The St. Croix beds (so-called western Potsdam) of the Mississippi Valley.
Fauna.
The Georgia group.
Taconic. ys ee The Taconic black slate and granular quartz.
Taconic-Primordial or First
Paradoxides beds of Braintree, Massachusetts, and St. John’s
Acadian. i cadian group of New Brunswick.
As above noted, this report of the committee was not adopted, and it is probably due more to the work of Dana and Walcott than to all others that the term to-day finds no place except historically in American geology.
As to the justice of this decision, there may be some question, particularly when one recalls the fact that Mr. Walcott’s own studies later showed the existence of his Olenel/us (Georgian) fauna below rather than above the Paradoxides (Acadian) beds.
When one considers further the condition of the science at the time Emmons first proposed the system and the conditions under which he labored, without satisfactory maps, it is obviously unfair to hold him to as strict an account as would be justifiable with reference to the later workers. Even were it true, as stated, that there is to-day ‘‘no known stratum of rock in the Taconic range” that is of the geological age assigned it by Doctor Emmons,“ and even though it were also true
@Kmmons’s granular quartz and the lower part of the Stockbridge limestone are to-day regarded as older than the Potsdam, as a part of the Lower Cambrian,

<<<Page: 770>>>

that ‘tall his reasons for calling the Hudson terrane Zaconic were based on errors of stratigraphy, and it was only a fortunate happening that any portion of the upper Taconic rocks occur where he placed them in his stratigraphic scheme,” still there would, to the unprejudiced, seem to be abundant room for the recognition of the name, a fact which Mr. Walcott has himself recognized by the adoption of the borrowed term Ordovician. Moreover, ruling out the term on the ground of blundering is scarcely just, since, as Winchell pertinently remarks, a similar ruling would take from Columbus the credit of having discovered America, since he blundered upon it, expecting to strike India.
The following tables illustrate the three principal stages of the Taconic controversy up to 1903, in the columns to the left the subdivisions of Emmons being given, and in those to the right the equivalents as recognized by Dana and other authorities.
Taconic of 1842. Equivalents of 1888. Equivalents of 1903.
6. Stockbridge limestone ....| II. Lower Silurian... {reer a pore ee
a. Magnesian slate of | III. Hudsonslates....| Lower Silurian. a Greylock, perhaps a = repetition of No. 3.
Pe Granular quantZias=seee ieiCambnaneeeseseee Lower Cambrian. 45 eimestoness =. eae eee oe II. Lower Silurian. ...}| Lower Cambrian. 3. Magnesian slate of Taconic | III. Hudson slates. ...| Lower Silurian.
Mountains.
2. Sparry limestone -.------Il. Lower Silurian_....| Upper part Lower Silurian; lower part Lower Cambrian.
jeelaconicislatessseeneesse ee III and I. Hudson | Lower Silurian.
slates and Cambrian. Taconic of 1844. a. Bald Mountain black | I. Cambrian ..--....-Lower Cambrian.
5 slate.
ST Nitke MiKo Ke SIEVE oonsosce III and I. Hudson | Lower Silurian.
l slatesand Cambrian.
4, Sparry limestone ----.---II. Lower Silurian....| Upper part Lower Silurian; lower part Lower Cambrian.
3. Magnesian slate --.-..---III. Hudson slates. ...| Lower Silurian.
2. Stockbridge limestone ....| II. Lower Silurian....| Upper part Lower Silurian; lower part Lower Cambrian.
ils (Creole OpRNAWA coo ccese oe h. (Cambrian 2... <5 s2Lower Cambrian.
Taconic of 1855. 2: Bald Mountamy |My Cambriantesss=eeLower Cambrian. Upper black slate. Taconic.)1. Taconic slate....) III and I. Hudson | Lower Silurian. slates and Cambrian. 3. Magnesian slate -| III. Hudson slates. ...| Lower Silurian. lean 2. StockbridgelimeII. Lower Silurian....; Upper part Lower Silurian; macaie stone. lower part Lower Cam; brian. 1. Granular quartz .| I. Cambrian --------Lower Cambrian. |

<<<Page: 771>>>



<<<Page: 772>>>



<<<Page: 773>>>

Maclure, 1817.
Development of Geological Column.
(Wernerian. )
Eaton, 1820.
Class IV. Alluyial rocks
Class II. Transition rocks ..--.
3. First or . First . Old Red Sand-
. Transition
Peat.
. Sand and gravel.
Loam. Bog iron ore.
. Nagel-fluh.
. Cale tuff.
. Cale sinter.
. Newest floetz trap
formation.
. Independent coal
formation.
. Floetz trap forma-
tion.
. Chalk formation. | . Rock salt forma|
tion.
. Third floetz sand-
sum.
. Second or varie|
gated sandstone. oldest floetz gypsum. or oldest floetz limestone.
stone or first | sandstone for| mation.
gypsum.
. Transition flinty |
slate.
. Graywacke. . Transition trap. . Transition
lime-
stone.
. White limestone. | . Primitivegypsum. . Primitive flint. |
1 if geen
V. Alluvial class{i5Sean.
bent class.
Vie Sey 15.
class.
Alluvian.
Greenstone trap. Basalt.
stone. 14. Secondary 3. Second floetz sandstone. “Class III. Floetz or secondary rocks. ... sandstone. | Ill. Seeondary}13. Gypsum. . Second floetz gyp| class. 12. Compact lime-
stone. Breccia.
0. Redsandstone. +3 8. Metalliferous
Graywacke.
limestone. Argillite.
11. Quartz rock.
eee Granular
8. Porphyry. 3 ene Class, E.Primitive rocks -+-55.:-5---<2:: 7. Serpentine. I. Primitive ie Wleaewiate. :
6. Primitive trap. : QT : 3
= jecunifean (hanes | class. 3. Hornblende
stone. | 2 pee
4. Clay slate. | i Genito
3. Mica slate. : °
2. Gneiss.
1. Granite.
The position of the volcanic pro-
ductions was problematical, but it was thought they might belong to the superincumbent class.

<<<Page: 774>>>

Conybeare and Phillips, 1822
Development of Geological Column—Continued.
(English. )
Superior order.
oa order.
Medial or carboniferous order.
Alluvial, diluvial.
Regular strata above the chalk, including upper marine (Suf| folk crag, Bagshot sands) fresh| water formations.
Loree clays, plastic clays, and sands.
Chalk.
Chalk marl.
Greensand.
Weald clay.
Upper Oolite division.
Middle OolitefCoral rag. division. \Oxford crag. Cornbrash. Lower Oolite|Stonefield slate. division. Forest marble. Great Oolite.
Purbeck beds. Portland oolite.
Lias. New Red Sandstone. Magnesian limestone.
Coal Measures.
Millstone grit and shale.
Carboniferous or Mountain limestone.
Old Red Sanastone.
Kimmeridge clay.
Eaton, 1830.
IV. Analluvian. III. Post-Diluyion. II. Diluvion.
I. Voleanie.
Anomalous deposits .......--
23. Shell marl. Class V. Tertiary or fifth se22. eee sand and SE 21. Marly clay. 20. Plastic clay. ; 19. Oolitic rocks. Class IV. Upper Secondary A or fourth series. SAI OR
wacke.
. Corniferous
limestone. 5. Geodiferous
Class III. Lower Secondary Ane or third series. . Ferriferous rock.
. Saliferous rock. . Second = gray-
wacke. 11. Metalliferous limerock. Class IT. Transition or sec10. Calatercus sand ond series. 9. Sparrylime rock. ; 8. First graywacke. 7. Argillite. 6. Granular limestone. 5, Granular quartz. Class I. Primitive or first se| 4. Taleose slate. ries. 3. Hornblende rock. 2. Mica slate. 1. Granite.

<<<Page: 775>>>

Development of Geological Column—Continued.
De La Beche, 1882. Lyell, 1837. Detritus such as is pro-|=_; . 1. Wied duced by causes now in 2E sonselidated sands oderngroup) action, as coral islands,|2| A.........-----CHET REINS travertine, ete me Delta formations, : ; Prapeported bowlders and) ete. locks; gravel on hills|—— : 2. Erratie block} and plains apparently B. Newer Mioeam ean group. produced by greater re cene. limesron ) t ys, forces than those now in| 6 = SACRE GUE: AGH = aaa =I Pubeppenine marl, a ae eee, ® ’. Older Plionglish crag, Ma3. Superior Creeee eppaite Boe eos a cene. rine and fresh taceousy isle of Wight beds, Lon-| & Water. group. adn piactioclarsete & : fiturine Loire, ete. 1. Chalk. pusuip oncrenr — | D. Miocene ....|;)Marine and fresh ol =) water.
BU DErLOr 4. Cretaceous “sand. 8, Gault POMEL 7 ae Grossier, stratifie group. ae +i a ete., Londonelays, or fossili Weald hep Ae ce E. Eocene.....sands,ete.,marine iferous. : | nee and fresh water.
5. Oolitic group. Oolite and Lias. il, Wie@enatdre. GEG il es or red marl. ®. Chalk with finte. 6. Red Sand-] 2. Muschelkalk. 3. Red a ObAIE Ge ithont stone group. Aaa sicd 4. Zechstein. : Saunts ww we a 5. Red conglomerate. F. Cretaceous}, 2 rs 1. Coal Measures. 2. Cargroup 4. Upper Green2 7. Carboniferous 5 Psand. © ear boniferous limestone. 3. Be Gant BBO Old Red Sandstone. eS ek od 6. Lower Green& 8. Graywacke Graywacke, graywacke Sarid 5 DE eat limestone, graywacke 3 fe wes oS SroOup: | clay slate, ete. GL Vive Gllcleun|| ke AMS clay. 5 : 2. Hastings sands. + : Various slates, frequently group. n 9. Lowest FosSanaa GAN RRR Ia 3. Purbeck beds. siliferous compounds resembling 1. Portland beds.
NA Broun: thoseofunstratitiedrocks. 3 2s nee eridge nferior ac oe aie ie 20 fe Stratija. Ooitie ont COMLME | fied;non-) order of super ounds in gneiss, proto-| = durmentim azo oso city. fossilifer-| position. Mi : eee lps stone group 6. Cornbrash. an gene, etc. iS *||6. Forest marble.
Ancient and modern lava,| = 7. Great Oolite. : trachyte, basalt, green-| 6 (: Fuller’s earth. Jcleanic, trap-} stone, corneans, augite,| § : 9, Inferior Oolite. Unstratifiea} Pea, serpen-) and hornblende porphy-| # | 1. Liasgroup.... Hiss, rocks. tinous, and] fies, serpentine, diallage| 4 | K. New Red Keuper.
granitic rocks.| rock, sienite, quartzifer-| 5 sandstone 2. Muschelkalk. ous poryhyry,granite,ete. group. S Bune sandL. Magnesian wens Bue fee
limestone
group. ENE
2. Red conglomerate.
M. Carboniferous group.
N. Old Red Sandstone group.
1, Coal Measures. 2. Mountain limestone.
| Magnesian limeE Old Red Sand-
stone.
1. Ludlow beds.
2. Wenlock lime-
O. Silurian stone.
group. 3. Caradoc sandstone.
k Llandeilo flags.
Rocks older than
the Silurian, graywacke,ete.
TV. Transition period.
Primary rocks.

<<<Page: 776>>>

Development of Geological Column—Continued.
New York State survey, 1841-1843.
VIII. Quaternary system.
VII. Tertiary system.
New York system.
VI. New Red Sandstone. V. Carboniferous system. IV. Old Red Sandstone.
28. Chemung group.
. Portage group.
. Genesee group.
. Tully limestone.
. Hamilton group.
. Marcellus shale.
2. Corniferous limestone.
. Onondaga limestone.
. Schoharie grit.
. Cauda galli grit.
. Oriskany stone.
. Upper Pentamerous limestone.
Erie division -
Helderberg division.
Ontario diy sion,
Champlain division.
Oo ee oO lor
5. Delthyris shaly stone. group. AS 1-410. 9. Medina sandstone. 8 glomerate. group. . Black River limesandstone.
3. Encrinal, limestone.” limestone.
. Pentamerous lime-
13. Waterlime group.
. Onondaga salt:
Niagara group. Clinton group.
. Oneida, or Shawangunk con-
. Gray sandstone.
Hudson River Utica slate.
. Trenton limestone. stone.
. Calciferous
1. Potsdam sand-
stone.
II. Taconic system. I. Primary or Hypogene system.
sand|
Ansted, 1844.
Diluvium and allu-
vium. Newer Tertiary or Tertiary period? Pliocene. pail: Middle Tertiary cd tae erag or coralline Miocene. crag Older Tertiary oFtBasenGr sand.
tocene depos-
“gece oy its.
Eocene. jLondon clay. Upper chalk. Lower chalk. Newer secondCretaceous sys-|Chalk marl. ary period. { tem. Upper Greensand.
Gault. omer Greensand. 2 ealden clay. Meal nu Hastings sand. Purbeck beds.
forma-|
Upper Oolitic sysPom sone
Beri: Kimmeridge clay. Upper cale grit.
Middle Oolitic sysCoral rag.
a Lower ecale grit.
Middle secondary period.
bere clay. Kelloway rock. Cornbrash. Forest marble. Great Oolite. Stonesfield slate. Inferior Oolite. Calcareous sand.
Lower Oolite
Upper Lias shale. Liassic group...--. Lower Lias shale. Lower Lias limestone. Upper New Red{Keuper.
my period. dSandstone or TriMuse helkalk.
assic system. Bunter sandstein.
Magnesian lime-(Magnesian limestone. stone or Permian, Lower New Red SandNewer Paleo-} System. stone, zoic system. Millstone grit. ay 7O. . C eee es TOUS SYS") Carboniferous limestone. Lower Carboniferous
shales.
Devonian system Slates and limestones
Middle Paleoof Devonshire, con-
zoic system. | ou tid Red Sendglomerates, corn2 S stone,and tilestone. Ludlow and Wenlock Upper Silurian} series, and Upper rocks. Cambrian i and Cam‘ rian rocks. Older Ealeguelc Caradoe sandstone ys e and Llandeilo Lower Silurian} flags, Older Camrocks, brian and Cam-
brian __ fossiliferous
Upper coal grit. Coal Measures.
shales.

<<<Page: 777>>>

Development of Geological Column—Continued.
De La Beche, 1851.
Lyell, 1855.
" A. Upper | ; c
Tertiary or
Cainozoic. | widdleTertiary. a.
C. Lower Tertiary. a. a.
A. Cretaceous}jc. group.
d. @
lents of Creta-4 b.
B. Marine equiva-(a. ceous group.
litie group.
D. Trias group ...
Secondary or w Mesozoic. A
; d.
C, Jurassic or Oo-} f.
A. Permian gro}
B. Marine fot
lents of. -
C. Carboniferous limestone group. b Primary or,
Paleozoic. :
D. Devonian group.
Mineral accumulations of the present time.
. Pleistocene. . Pliocene.
Miocene.
Eocene.
Chalk or Maes| tricht of Denmark.
. Ordinary chalk,
with or without flints.
Merstham beds, or Upper Greensand.
Gault.
Shanklin sands, Neocomian, or Lower Greensand.
Wealden.
Hastings sands.
. Purbeck beds. . Portland or Oolitic
limestone. Portland sands. Kimmeridge clay. Coral rag. Oxford clay.
. Cornbrash.
. Forest marble.
. Fuller’s earth.
. Inferior Oolite.
. Lias (Upper and
Lower).
. Variegated marls. b. Muschelkalk. _ ec. Red Sandstone
(Bunter, etc.).
. Zechstein. . Rothe todte lie-
gende. Coal Measures.
. Carboniferous and
Mountain limestone, ete.
Carboniferous |
slates.
Various modifica-
tionsof Old Red Sandstones.
. Upper.
Middle. Lower.
Sj ) 8 ee a. © 4 <j ' — ~)
Tertiary
eens ere
Jaino-
~ |Eocene ..... |
Mesozoic.
Secondary or
F, Cambrian .....
Various rocks subjacent to the Silurian series in Wales and Ireland and above the mica and chlorite slates, ete.
a ‘|E. Silurian group c
Primary or Paleozoic.
Miocene ....
Cretaceous .412. 3. Gault.
. Lower Greensand.
. Wealden.
. Purbeck beds.
. Portland stone,
. Kimmeridge clay.
. Coral rag.
Jurassic .....420. 21. Great or
AUMIASSIG eee
Permian .... 27.
28. Carbonifer-29, Qus==4eas 30 Deyonian -. 431 Sari J32 Silurian .....433
Cambrian. . 4:
OO SIS Ore Co bt
. Recent.
. Post Pliocene.
. Newer Pliocene. . Older Pliocene.
Miocene. Upper Eocene.
. Middle Eocene. . Lower Eocene.
Maestricht beds.
Upper white chalk Lowerwhite chalk Upper Greensand.
Oxford clay. Bath Oolite.
. Inferior Oolite.
Lias.
24, Upper Trias. . Middle Trias or
Muschelkalk.
. Lower Trias.
Permian or magnesian limestone,
Coal Measures.
Carboniferous limestone.
. Upper Devonian. . Lower Devonian. . Upper Silurian. . Lower Silurian. . Upper Cambrian. . Lower Cambrian.

<<<Page: 778>>>

Development of Geological Column—Continued.
Phillips, 1855.
a, 1862.
Post-Glacial. Glacial. Pre-Glacial. Crag. Fluvio-Marine. London clay. Plastic clay.
Tertiary oy Cainozoic series.
Chalk. Greensand.
Wealden. Upper Oolite. Middle Oolite. Lower Oolite. Lias.
Poikilitic series.
Secondary or MesoZoic series.
L. Mesozoic.
Permian. Coal series. Mountain limestone.
ozoic.
U. Pale-
Old Red, or Devonian series.
|_M. Pa-
leozoic.
Ludlow. Wenlock. Caradoc. Llandeilo. Festiniog. Bangor.
Primary or Paleozoic series.
L. Paleozoic.
Age of Man.
| Post-Tertiary
Hypozoie series.
Mica schist, including chlorite schist, tale schist, quartz rock, granular limestone, ete.
Gneiss, including limestone, hornblende schist, ete.
Granitiec rocks which are not stratified usually form the basis of the strata, and are frequently, but not by any means universally, followed
by the gneiss and mica slate. |
‘Pleistocene or Post-Tertiary. Pliocene. tien
Merbianyes seer eee Miocene. | Eocene. af Upper Cretaceous. ee Middle Cretaceous. mS Lower Cretaceous. (OS) Wealden: .2222--ee=s5Wealden. od | ¢ S| Purbeck, Portland, as Upper Oolitie.; and Kimmeridge ics nes clave. in| en | Oolitickepochh =e. P -.{Coral rag. 2 | 3 Middle Oolitic! Oy ford nae 2) 8 4; JStonefield. aye | Lower Oolitic.11nferior Oolite. Upper Lias. Tiassiclepoche--s--—Middle Lias. ai Lower Lias. RS Keuper. ra Muschelkalk. a Buntersandstone. iS es n PETMAN seeceee ae eee 15 | Permian. ) Ss. 14c | Upper Coal Measures. ‘5 & | Carboniferous .......14b | Lower Coal Measures. 8 sS 14a | Millstone grit. Lol oS : . ; { 13b | Upper. oO Subearboniferous -..\ 13a | Lower. = “ = A Catskills oeeec cc mccee ve ‘ : 11b | Chemung. Sig PO EERUIES Soe ockaod { lla} Portage. oo 10¢ | Genesee. SOS) | Hamil tone een =e 10b | Hamilton. ath 10a | Marcellus. Bay 9c | Upper Helderberg. = ° | Upper Helderberg....|/ 9b | Schoharie. = 9a | Cauda-galli. a Oriskanwee-ceseee eee 8 | Oriskany. dg | Lower Helderburg .-. 7 | Lower Helderberg. | Ss }2\ 5 | [relly lieu ry auf ee ee ee 6 | Saliferous. eel 2a (— = S 2 | 5d | Niagara. ey : 5e | Clinton. SS) Peaster ae ese aes eo 5b | Medina. 2 5a | Oneida. a . 4 eal : 4b | Hudson River. | i E Hudsom i222 Sa eseces { Aa || (ose, |§/s Trenton. fra A 3b |; Black River. Bo oe | Miner oie ooo ee se eanese Birdseye. |B 2 : £ 3a | Chazy. S 2b | Calciferous. 4 | Potsdam............-. { oa Potsdam. AZOICE shoes aes 1 | Azoic.

<<<Page: 779>>>

Development of Geological Coluimn—Continued.
na, 1875-1879.
Age of Man, or Quaternary.
TPOStReEHANy) = 25S <)2626h S55 oe2c0
Pleistocene or Post-Tertiary
Pliocene. Menteur 2 toot 5 S555 8 see Miocene. | Eocene. r | a 2 Upper Cretaceous. z ES Middle Cretaceous. = = Lower Cretaceous. Weald ene sacses ena een eee nee = Wealden.
& | Upper Oolite Aeige Portland, and Kimmeridge clays. > ‘ ; . {Coral rag. eon eOolitic.epoche --.-.22.c--2---<5 Middle Oolite-16x ford clay. =| 2 : -, sStonesfield.
2S a |Low er Oolite Eve Oolite. 2 2 ; Upper Lias. WslassiGepOCh =. 2-sess eens Middle Lias. Lower Lias. a Keuper. 3 Muschelkalk. na Buntersandstone. = = CLM aN wace acct sake sanese oe 15 | Permian. B i 1d4c | Upper Coal Measures. so Carbomiterouscacs ee rereansce 146 | Lower Coal Measures. ao pee Re EA ates lda | Millstone grit. & | eke Se no ats { 13b | Upper. a Subearboniferous .............. | 13a | Lower. Bier Caisse! ates Se ee 12 | pects} @hetmung =. -2-..<)/2.22-0=. 20. { up nee am r j 10¢c | Genesee. See | Hamilton ~o2ss.cs2chscssme ce 10b | Hamilton. sie 10a | Marcellus. iS 9c | Corniferous. 2 Wommiferouss.=.casce nese sone 9b | Schoharie. A 9a | Cauda-galli. s let MOTISKAIIV: Soc 2 sas = oe Oriskany. = “<= Lower Helderberg Lower Helderberg. (ie US) | SEWN) Seno oact sano ee spe aaeease Salina. = |aa : Niagara. 2 Re Nila Para) cs. ce5s-ccescecen ee asses Clinton. 5 Medina. ; Poe |e 4c | Cincinnati. COM hese) PLLC MOU oan a seas oie acai a= 4b | Utica. a jet | 4a | Trenton. mw) : J 3 | Chazy. Palos" Cariadianteeasacenes oso 5 se. 4 3b | Quebec. Si e \L 3a} Calciferous. — = =O iS € * = §_ Primordial or Cambrian ....... { 2 ola DA i IAT CHCA he soe so ae sees saencemeok nee se | 1 | Archean.

<<<Page: 780>>>

Development of Geological Column—Continued.
Dana, 1895.
» | me | £ Qiiateriany a eee eee 8 o |B a of |g z 2” | 2 | vertiar & 3 Vase ects Bate as Se eae [sakes B Upper Cretaceous 8 per CrelaceOUspeslease oO he | ©) Lower Cretaceous)... E iS) 3 nae Upper, or Portlandian epoch -.. 2 ‘*g +| Middle, or Oolitic epoch.-....-. S | ¢& Lower, or Liassic epoch ........ = Upper ae ue tere taues serene nae w Middle gnees-cemen oemen eee enoe 'B LOW Olea ssenee cess ce eeeeeee iS) Ss PERMA sooo see ae eice eee o z 3 Car boniterousieree. a. cce cee anes S BR Subcarboniferous .............. oO E Upper Devonianes--aces-essens = 3 == == — +s) = d 2 Middle Devonian or Hamilton. iS) | 8 Sis | Cou abies he Sosbeneossessecces 2 ® 3 8 4] A g S Oriskany cA. sc ae ere ace eee ng . © a wees i) iS 8 Lower Helderberg ...........-& = a 5 z Ay = ie | PONOUGS2aeaee. ccee ene eee 1 V 2, i Cate 5} NTA Saray els Se eeet a senen te eee | : S. BS (|isarosa en ton:.nee oases eee B25 1S) A = | ® os | = ° oo Neees = | OMIA LENDS See ea tome eee | 23/8 S }|— Benes Wpper'ssSl eansseee eae ee ees a |= al mnddle eco eee S O.a/P | SOwenltss' 28 eseeeoeee eee
Archean
Recent. 0 Champlain. Glacial.
Pliocene. Miocene .
}Neocene,
Eocene.
Upper Cretaceous.
Lower Cretaceous.
Middle Oolite.
{ud Oolite.
Lower Oolite.
Upper Lias.
Lower Lias.
|Marisone
Keuper. Muschelkalk. Buntersandstein. 14 | Permian. 18c | Upper Coal Measures. 13b | Lower Coal Measures. 13a | Millstone grit. { 12b | Upper, or Mauch Chunk. = é | 12a | Lower, or Pocono. | f 116 | Chemung and Catskill. | lla | Portage, Genesee. { 10b |{Hamilton. 10a |}\Marcellus. { 9b | Corniferous. 9a | Schoharie and Cauda-galli. 8 | Oriskany. 7 | Lower Helderberg. 6 | Salina and waterlime. oe | Niagara. 5b | Clinton. 5a | Medina. 4c | Hudson. 4b | Utica. 4a | Trenton. 3c | Chazy. 3a | Calciferous. 2c | Potsdam. 2b | Acadian. 2a | Georgian. D Wisense Huronian. oe Laurentian.

<<<Page: 781>>>

AS bata) Lex 1S

<<<Page: 782>>>

a art i aay!
: : as ; 4 » & ‘ = ‘ f

<<<Page: 783>>>

ApaAms, CHARLES Baker. Conchologist and geologist.
Born in Dorchester, Mass., January 11, 1814; died in St. Thomas, West Indies, January 18, 1853. Graduated at Amherst in 1834, and took up study of theology at Andover, leaving there to join E. Hitchcock on geological survey of New York. Professor of chemistry and natural history in Middlebury College, Vermont, 1838-1847. State geologist of Vermont, 1845-1848. In 1847 accepted professorship of zoology and astronomy at Amherst. Failing health took him to West Indies, where he died. Assisted greatly in making known the mollusk-fauna of Panama and West Indies.
Biogr. Wm. H. Dall. Some American Conchologists, Proc. Biolog. Soc. of Washn., IV, 1886-88, pp. 112-116. H. M. Seeley, Amer. Geol., XX XII, No. 1, July, 1903, pp. 1-12. Thos. Bland, Amer. Jour. of Conchology, I, pp. 191-204. 1865. AGassiz, JEAN Louis Ropo.tpue. Zoologist and glacialist.
Born in Motier, Switzerland, May 28, 1807; died in Cambridge, Mass., December 14, 1873. In 1832, professor in the Academy of Neuchatel. In 1846, came to United States and in 1847, appointed professor of zoology and geology in Harvard University. In 1851, professor of comparative anatomy in Charleston, 8S. C. In 1859, founded in Cambridge the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Best known as a lecturer, teacher, and authority on fossil fishes, and as the father of the glacial theory. His Etudes sur les Glaciers appeared in 1840 and his Glacial System in 1847.
Biogr. Life and Correspondence, by Elizabeth C. Agassiz, Boston, 1886. Biogr. Life and Letters of Louis Agassiz, by Jules Marcou, Boston, 1895. Memoir of Louis Agassiz, by Arnold Guyot. Biog. Mems. Nat. Acad. Sci., II, 1886. Richard Bliss, Pop. Sci. Monthly, IV, March, 1874, pp. 608-618. AKERLY, SAMUEL. Physician.
Born , 1785; died on Staten Island, New York, July 6, 1845. Graduated from Columbia College, 1804. Wrote mainly on medical subjects. His principal geological publication was an essay on the geology of the Hudson River.
AupricH, TRUMAN HemINnway.
* Born in Palmyra, N. Y., October 17, 1848. Graduated at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N. Y., as a mining and civil engineer, in 1869. Assistant engineer on various railroad surveys and public works in New Jersey till 1871, when he moved to Alabama and became interested in coal mining. His publications are mainly on coal and recent shells and Tertiary fossils.
Born in Bridgewater, Mass., March 8, 1807; died in Washington, D. C., November 27, 1863. In 1826-27, made collecting trips into Nova Scotia, and in 1828-29, explored in the same Province with C. T. Jackson. In 1844, published an edition of Phillips’s Mineralogy.
NAT Mus 1904——44 689

<<<Page: 784>>>

ANpREws, EBENEZER BALDWIN. Theologian and geologist. -
Born in Danbury, Conn., April 29, 1821; died in Lancaster, Ohio, August 14, 1880. Graduated from Marietta College in 1842. In 1851-1869, professor of geology in Marietta College, and then became assistant geologist to the Ohio State survey. Author of Text-book on Elementary Geology, Cincinnati, 1878.
ANTISELL, THomaAs, Physician and chemist.
Born in Dublin, Ireland, January 16, 1817; died in Washington, D. C., June 14, 1893. By profession a chemist and surgeon. Came to America in 1848 and practiced medicine in New York for six years, at same time lecturing in colleges in Woodstock, Vt., Pittsfield, Mass., and Berkshire Medical Institute. In 1854-1856, served as geologist on Pacific Railroad Survey under Lieut. J. G. Parke. In 1861-1865, surgeon in Union Army. © In 1866-1870, chief chemist in Department of Agriculture. In 1871-1877, in Japan in service of Imperial Government as chemist and technologist.
Biogr. Wm. H. Seamans, Philos. Soc. of Washn., Bull. XIII, pp. 367-434. ; Yearbook of Agr. Dept., 1899, p. 238. : ASHBURNER, CHARLES ALBERT. Mining engineer.
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., February 9, 1854; died in Pittsburg, Pa., December 24, 1889. Economic geologist with especial reference to petroleum, gas, coal, and iron. Trained as a civil engineer, but soon abandoned the calling for that of geologist. Geologist to second geological survey of Pennsylvania, 1873-1886.
Biogr. Amer. Geologist, VI, August, 1890, pp. 69-78.
Barnes, Danret Henry. Baptist clergyman and educator.
Born in Canaan, Columbia County, N. Y., April 25, 1785; killed in runaway accident in Troy, N. Y., October 27, 1828, Graduated in theology from Union College in 1809 and in 1816, became principal of the classical department of that institution. In 1819, made professor of languages in the Baptist Theological Seminary, New York City. Rendered valuable service on original edition of Webster’s Dictionary. Published but one purely geological paper—a geological section of the Canaan Mountains.
Biogr. Am. Jour. Sci., XV, 1829, p. 401.
Barris, Wituis Hervey. Clergyman.
Born in Beaver County, Pa., July 9, 1821; died in Davenport, Iowa, June 10, 1901. Clergyman and teacher, interested in the sciences, particularly in geology. One of the founders of the Davenport Academy of Sciences. Published three brief papers on the local geology of Davenport.
Biogr. C. A. White. Annals of Iowa, October, 1901, p. 219.
Beck, Lewis CaLes. Chemist.
Born in Schenectady, N. Y., October 4, 1798; died in Albany, N. Y., April 20, 1853. At time of death held the professorships of chemistry and natural history at Rutgers College, New Jersey, and of chemistry in Albany Medical College.
Am. Jour. Se., X VI, 18538, pp. 149-150.
Bicssy, JoHn J. Physician.
A British medical officer. Wrote principally on Canadian geology. Bruuines, Evkanan. Paleontologist.
Born in Gloucester, Canada, May 5, 1820; died in Montreal, Canada, June 14, 1876. Educated as a lawyer. In 1852-1855, editor of the Citizen, at Renfrew, Canada. In 1856 established the Canadian Naturalist. From 1856 to time of his death paleontologist to the provincial government.
Biogr. Henry M. Ami. Amer. Geologist, XX VII, No. 5, 1901, pp. 265-281.
Bryney, Amos. Conchologist. Born in Boston, Mass., October 18, 1803; died in Rome, Italy, February 18, 1847, (sraduated from Brown University in 1821,

<<<Page: 785>>>

Buiake, WiuviAM Puipps. Geologist.
Born in New York, June 1, 1826. Graduated from Yale Scientific School in 1852. Geologist and mineralogist for U. 8. Pacific Railroad Expedition in 1853. Became professor ef mineralogy and geology, College of California, 1864; now director of School.of Mines, University of Arizona, and Territorial geologist.
Booru,. JAMES Curtis. Chemist.
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., July 28, 1810; died in West Haverford, Pa., March 21, 1888. Professor of applied chemistry, Franklin Institute. In 1849 appointed superintendent of smelting and refining precious metals in United States Mint. Assistant on geological survey of Pennsylvania and State geologist of Delaware, 1839-1841.
Lamb’s Biog. Dict. of United States. Braviey, Frank Howe. Geologist.
Born in New Haven, Conn., September 20, 1838; died near Nacoochee, Ga., March 27,1879. In 1867, assistant geologist, State survey of Hlinois. In 1869-1875, professor of geology and mineralogy in the University of Tennessee. During summer of 1872, assistant geologist in the Hayden surveys. After 1875 engaged in private work. Killed by a cave-in in a gold mine.
Am. Jour. Sci., X VII, 1879, p. 415. Brampsy, R. S.
Born in Statesburg, 8. C., August 4, 1804; died near Athens, Ga., October 6, 1871. Received a classical education and became first a lawyer, then a newspaper editor. From 1834 to 1849, professor of chemistry, mineralogy, and geology in the University of Alabama. In the latter year elected to a similar position in South Carolina College in Columbia, 8. C., where he remained until 1856.
BRANNER, JOHN Casper. Geologist.
Born in Newmarket, Tenn., July 4, 1850. Graduated from Cornell, 1874. Geologist on Imperial Geological Commission, Brazil, 1875-1877; topographical geologist, geological survey of Pennsylvania, 1883-1885; professor of geology, University of Indiana, 1885-1892; State geologist of Arkansas, 1887-1892. Professor of geology, Leland Stanford Junior University, since 1892.
Brewer, WititiAM Henry. Chemist and geologist.
Born in Poughkeepsie, N. Y., September 14, 1828. Graduated from Yale in 1852; studied at Heidelberg, Munich, and Paris. Professor of chemistry and geology, Washington College, Pennsylvania, 1858-1860; first assistant on geological survey of California, 1860-1864; professor of chemistry, University of California, 1863-64. Professor of agriculture at Yale since 1864.
Briaa@s, CALEB.
Born in North Rochester, Mass., May 24, 1812; died in North Rochester, Mass., September 28, 1884. Assistant on geological survey of Ohio under Mather, 1837, and on geological survey of Virginia under Rogers in 1839. Worked principally in the coal and iron formations.
Biogr. Chas. Whittlesey. Mag. of Western History, II, 1885. BROADHEAD, GARLAND Carr. Geologist. e
Born in Albemarle County, Va., October 30, 1827. Civil engineer, Pacific Railroad of Missouri, 1852-1857; assistant geologist of Missouri, 1857-1861 and 1871-1873; State geologist of Missouri, 1873-1875; assistant geologist of Illinois, 1868; professor of geology, University of Missouri, 1887-1897.
Brooks, THomAs Brenton. Geologist.
Born in Monroe, N. Y., June 15, 18386; died in Newburgh, N. Y., November 22, 1900. Began life as a land surveyor. In 1865, engaged on general survey of New Jersey. In 1866-1869, vice-president and general manager of Iron Cliff mine in the Marquette district of Michigan. In 1869-1873, connected with State survey of Michigan.
Biogr. Bailey Willis. Science, Mar. 22, 1901.

<<<Page: 786>>>

Bruce, ARCHIBALD. Physician and mineralogist..
Born in New York City in February, 1777; died in New York, February 22, 1818. During a two years’ tour of Europe he éollcetetl a valuable mineralogical cabinet, and returned to the United States in 1803, to enter on the practice of medicine. Assisted in organization of College of Physicians and Surgeons of State of New York. Established Journal of American Mineralogy. Professor of materia medica and mineralogy in College of Physicians of New York and Rutger’s College, New Jersey.
Biogr. Am. Jour. Sci., TI, 1819, pp. 299-3804.
Buckiey, SAMUEL Botsrorp. Botanist.
Born near Penn Yan, in Yates County, New York, May 9, 1809; died in Austin, Tex., February 18,1884. Graduate of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., 1836. Taught botany in Illinois, Alabama, and other Southern States. Discovered zeuglodon skeleton in Clarke County, Ala., in 1841. In 1866-67, State geologist of Texas.
Bull. Torrey Botanical Club, XI.
CHAMBERLIN, THOMAS CrowbDER. Geologist.
Born in Mattoon, IIl., September 25, 1843. Graduate of Beloit, 1866. Professor of natural science, State normal school, Whitewater, Wis., 1869-1873; professor of geology, Beloit, 1882-1887; president of University of Wisconsin, 1887-1892. Assistant State geologist Wisconsin, 1873-1876; chief geologist Wisconsin, 1876; United States geologist in charge of glacial division since 1882; geologist of Peary Relief Expedition, 1894. Since 1892 head professor of geology, University of Chicago.
Cuance, Henry Martyn. Mining engineer and geologist. Born in Philadelphia, January 18, 1856. Graduated from University of Pennsylvania, 1874. Assistant geologist, Pennsylvania geological survey, 1874-1884.
CuurcH, JoHN ApAms. Metallurgist and ¢nining engineer.
Born in Rochester, N. Y., April 5, 1843. Graduated from Columbia in 1867. Acting professor of mineralogy and metallurgy, Columbia School of Mines; editor Engineering and Mining Journal, 1872-1874; for some time connected with U. 8. Geological Survey; professor mining and metallurgy, Ohio State University, 1878-1881.
CiaypoLtr, EpwArpD WALLER. Geologist.
Born in Ross, Hereford, England, June 1, 1835; died in Long Beach, Cal., August 17, 1901. Came to United “States in 1872 and became professor of natural science at Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio, in 1873. In 1881-1883, connected with second geological survey of Pennsylvania. In 1883, appointed professor of natural science in Buchtel College, Akron, Ohio. In 1898 to time of his death, professor of geology and biology at Throop Polytechnic Institute, Pasadena, Cal.
Biogr. Theo. B. Comstock and Geo. M. Richardson. Amer. Geol., X XIX, 1902, No. 1, pp. 1-47. T. B. Comstock. Bull. Geol. Soc. of America, XIII, Feb., 1903, pp. 487-97. CLEAVELAND, ParKER. Chemist and mineralogist.
Born in Essex, Mass., January 15, 1780; died in Brunswick, Me., October 16, 1858. Graduated at Harvard in 1799. In 1805, appointed professor of mathematics, natural philosophy, chemistry, and mineralogy in Bowdoin College, and continued to teach these branches (with exception of mathematics) until time of his death. Is best remembered as a teacher and mineralogist.
Biogr. Am. Jour. Sci., XX VI, 1858, pp. 448-9.
CouuLett, JoHN. Geologist.
Born in Eugene, Ind., January 10, 1828; died in Indianapolis, Ind., March 15, 1899. Graduated from Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Ind., in 1847. From 1869 to 1879 assistant under E. T. Cox in State survey of Indiana, and in last-named year made State geologist and statistician. 1880 appointed geologist in chief for a term of four years. At the end of his term of service he retired to private life.

<<<Page: 787>>>

ConkKLING, ALFRED RONALD.
Born in New York, September 28, 1850.. Graduated from Yale in 1870. For a short time connected with U. 8. Geological Survey under Hayden. Conrap, Timorny Assorr. Conchologist and paleontologist.
Born near Trenton, N. J., June 21, 1803; died in Trenton, N. J., August 9, 1877. By profession a printer. Geologist and paleontologist of New York State, 1827-1842. Prepared official reports on the fossils collected by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, the expedition of Lieutenant Lynch to the Dead Sea, and the Mexican Boundary Survey. Healso published an important work on the fossil shells of the Tertiary formation of North America.
Biogr. Wm. H. Dall. Proc. Biolog. Soc. of Washington, IV, 1886-88, pp. 112-114. Cook, GrorGE HAMMELL. Geologist.
Born in Hanoyer, N. J., January 5, 1818; died in New Brunswick, N. J., September 22, 1889. In 1839-1842, tutor or adjunct professor and 1842-1846, senior professor at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. In 1848-1851, connected with Albany Academy at Albany, N. Y. In 1853, professor of chemistry and natural science at Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J. In 1854-1856, assistant geologist of State of New Jersey. In 1864, made State geologist, a position which he continued to fill till time of his death.
Biogr. James Neilson. Address before faculty of Rutgers College, 1890.
Cooper, THomas. Educator.
Born in London, England, October 22, 1759; died in Columbia, 8. C., May 11, 1840. Came to America in 1795 and served for brief periods as professor of chemistry and allied sciences and law in Dickinson College, University of Pennsylvania, University of Virginia, and South Carolina College, becoming president of last named in 1821 and serving until 1833.
Biogr. History of Higher Education in South Carolina by Colyer’ Meriweather. Bureau of Edueation, Washn., 1889. Corr, Epwarp Drinker. Paleontologist.
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., July 28, 1840; died in Philadelphia, April 12, 1897. Vertebrate paleontologist. Professor of natural science at Haverford College, Pa., 1864-1867; connected with the U. 8. Geological Surveys under Lieut. G. M. Wheeler, 1874, and Dr. F. V. Hayden. Curator of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1865-18738. Professor of geology, University of Pennsylvania, 1889. For many years editor of the American Naturalist.
Biogr. P. Frazer. Amer. Geol., XX VI, Aug., 1900.
Cornetius, Evras. Clergyman.
Born in Somers, N. Y., July 31, 1794; died in Hartford, Conn., February 12, 1832. A clergyman who, in company with many others of his time, was interested in the sciences. Wrote a little, but did no active work.
Biogr. Bela Hubbard. Nat. Cyclo. Am. Biogr, 1833.
Corrine, JoHN Rua@ues. Clergyman.
Born in Acton, Mass., 1784; died in Milledgeville, Ga., October 18, 1868. A clergyman interested in science. Removed to Augusta, Ga., in 1835, and was engaged by private parties to make agricultural survey of Burke and Richmond counties. The work was completed in 1836, and map and drawings deposited in the Medical College at Augusta. Report published in 1836. State geologist of Georgia for two years.
Biogr. Am. Min. Jour., XLV, 1868. p. 141.
Cournovuy, JosepH Prrry. Conchologist.
Born in Boston, Mass., January 6, 1808, of French extraction; shot on U.S. S. Chillicothe, off Grand Ecore, La., April 3, 1864, and died following day. In early life shipped as sailor on his father’s vessel. In 1836, became member of Boston Society

<<<Page: 788>>>

of Natural History; was conchologist to Wilkes Exploring Expedition for two years. Commanded United States vessels from outbreak of rebellion until he lost his life. Biogr. Wm. H. Dail. Some Amer. Conchologists. Proc. Biolog. Soc. of Washn., IV, 1886-88, pp. 108-111.
Cox, Epwarp Travers. Geologist.
Born in Culpeper County, Va., April 21, 1821. Studied geology and chemistry under D. D. Owen and served as assistant on surveys of Kentucky and Arkansas. In 1868-1880, State geologist of Indiana.
CozzEns, ISSACHAR.
Born in Newport, R. I., December 15, 1780, died in Guttenberg, N. J., April 17, 1865. Cozzeus’s claim to recognition as a geologist, so far as his publications are concerned, is based upon his geological history of Manhattan or New York Island, dated 1843.
Biogr. Genl. A. W. Vogdes. Amer. Geolog., XXIV, No. 6, 1899, pp. 327-8.
Daz, THomaAs NEetson. Geologist.
Born in New York City, November 25, 1845. Professor of geology, zoology, and botany, Drury College, Missouri, 1877; professor of geology, Vassar College, 1878; connected with U. 8. Geological Survey since 1885—as field assistant, 1885-1889; assistant geologist, 1890-91; geologist, 1892 to date. Instructor in Williams College—in geology, 1893; botany, 1897; resigned, 1901.
Daut, WittiAM Heatry. Naturalist.
Born in Boston, Mass., August 21, 1845. Studied natural sciences under Louis Agassiz. Paleontologist on U.S. Geological Survey, 1884-1898. Since 1880, attached to U.S. National Museum; since 1893, also professor invertebrate paleontology, Wagner Institute of Sciences, Philadelphia.
Dana, Epwarp Sauispury. Mineralogist.
Born in New Haven, Conn., November 16, 1849. Graduated from Yale University in 1870; also studied in Heidelberg and Vienna. Member of Yale faculty since 1874. Editor American Journal of Science. Author of Text-Book and System of Mineralogy.
Dana, JAMES DwicHr. Geologist.
Born in Utica, N. Y., February 12, 1813; died in New Haven, Conn., April 14, 1895. Entered Yale in 1830, but withdrew in August, 1838, to become instructor in mathematics in the Navy. In 1836, reentered Yale, remaining two years, serving as assistant to Professor Silliman. In 1838-1842, geologist and mineralogist to the Wilkes Exploring Expedition. In 1846, became editor of American Journal of Science. In 1850, appointed professor of natural history in Yale College, the title in 1864 being changed to professor of geologyand mineralogy. Retained this chair until 1890, when he retired from active university work. ‘‘The foremost geologist of America and one of the foremost of the world.”’
Biogr. E.S. Dana. Am. Jour. Sci., XLIX, 1895, pp. 1-28. C. E. Beecher, Am. Geol., X VII, 1896, pp. 1-16.
Joseph Le Conte. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., VII, 1895, pp. 461-479. D.C. Gilman. The Life of James Dwight Dana, 1899.
Dana, SAMUEL LurnHErR. Chemist.
Born in Amherst, N. H., July 11, 1795; died in Lowell, Mass., March 11, 1868. Graduated in medicine in 1818 and practiced until 1826. Chemist to the Newton Chemical Company, from about 1826-1834. Consulting chemist of Merrimac Manufacturing Company, at Lowell, Mass., 1834-1868. With his brother J. F. Dana, published a work on the mineralogy and geology of Boston and vicinity.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, pp. 692-697. Am. Jour. Sci., XLY, 1868, p. 425.
a ae

<<<Page: 789>>>

Dawson, GEoRGE Mercer. Geologist.
Born in Pictou, Nova Scotia, August 1, 1849; died in Ottawa, Canada, March 2, 1901. Graduated at the London School of Mines in 1872, and became geologist and botanist on North American Boundary Surveys, 1873. Connected with Geological Survey of Canada from 1875 to time of his death, succeeding Selwyn as director in 1895.
Biogr. Frank D. Adams. Bull. Geol. Soc. of America, XIII, Feb., 1908, pp. 497-509. Dawson, Jonn WitiiAM. Stratigraphical geologist and paleobotanist.
Born in Pictou, Nova Scotia, October 13, 1820; died in Montreal, Canada, November 19, 1899. Superintendent of education in Nova Scotia, 1850. Principal of MeGill University, 1855-1893. The author of many works bearing upon science and religion; his most important books being Acadian Geology, the first edition of which appeared in 1855; the Geological History of Plants; Air Breathers of the Coal Period; and the Dawn of Life. One of the most eminent advocates of the theory of the organic origin of the Hozoon canadense.
Biogr. Bull. Geol. Soe. Amer., XI, 1899, pp. 550-580.
H. M. Ami. Amer. Geol., XX VI, 1900, pp: 1-57.
Eng. & Min. Jour., LX VIII, No. 23, Dec. 2, 1899, p. 664.
Canadian Rec. of Sei., VIII, 1900, pp. 137-149. Drang, JAMeEs. Physician.
Born in Coleraine, Mass., February 24, 1801; died in Greenfield, Mass., June 8, 1858. Physician by profession, his claim to geological recognition being founded upon his work on fossil footprints in the sandstones of the Connecticut Valley, to the study of which, contemporaneously with Hitchcock, he devoted much attention.
Dewey, CHEstER. Naturalist.
Born in Sheffield, Mass., October 25, 1784; died in Rochester, N. Y., December 5, 1867. Tutor in Williams College, 1808-1810. In 1810-1817, professor of mathematics and natural philosophy, also professor and lecturer on chemistry and botany in medical colleges of Pittsfield, Mass., and Woodstock, Vt., for many years. In 1836-1850, principal of the Collegiate Institute of Rochester, N. Y. In 1850-1860, professor of chemistry and natural philosophy, University of Rochester.
DucaTtet, Jutius TiMoLeoN. Chemist.
Born in Baltimore, Md., June 6, 1796; died there April 23, 1849. Professor of natural philosophy in Mechanic’s Institute of Baltimore, and of chemistry and geology in faculty of arts and sciences in the University of Maryland. In 1830 succeeded Doctor Butts in the chair of chemistry in the medical department of the university. In 1835, in conjunction with J. H. Alexander, made a preliminary reconnaissance of Maryland; was appointed professor of chemistry, mineralogy, and geology in St. John’s College, Annapolis, but in 1838 or 1839 resigned both appointments to devote himself to the survey work.
Obituary. Am. Jour. Sei., VIII, 1849, pp. 146-149. Durron, CLARENCE Epwarp. Major in United States Army and geologist.
Born in Wallingford, Conn., May 15,1841. Graduated from Yale in 1860. Entered United States Army in 1862, and after civil war devoted leisure to study of geology. In 1875-1891, detailed for duty with U. 8. Geological Survey.
Dwiert, WittrAm Buck. Geologist.
Born in Constantinople, Turkey, May 22, 1833. Graduated from Yale University, 1857. In 1865-1867, engaged in mining explorations in Virginia and Missouri. In 1867-1870, taught at West Point. In 1870-1878, professor of natural sciences at State Normal School of Connecticut; since 1878, professor of natural history, Vassar College.
Earon, Amos. Geologist and educator.
Born in Chatham, N. Y., May 17, 1776; died in Troy, N. Y., May 6, 1842. Grad-
uated from Williams College, 1799, and subsequently studied and practiced law. In

<<<Page: 790>>>

1815, studied mineralogy and geology with Professor Silliman. Returned to Williams College and gave course of lectures on botany, geology, and mineralogy to volunteer students. In 1820, appointed professor of natural history in Medical College at Castleton, Vt. In 1820-21, engaged on geological and agricultural survey of Albany and Rensselaer counties, N. Y. In 1823-24, on survey of district adjoining the Erie Canal. In 1824, made senior professor of school of sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he remained till his death. Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, XX XVIII, November, 1890, pp. 113-118. Emmons, EBENEZER. (Geologist. Born in Middlefield, Mass., May 16, 1799; died in Brunswick County, N. C., October 1, 1863. Graduated at Williams College, Massachusetts, in 1820, and for fifteen years practiced medicine and surgery in Berkshire. In 1838-1852, professor of chemistry at the Albany Medical School. In 1828, lecturer on chemistry in Williams College. In 1833, appointed professor of natural history to succeed C. Dewey. In 1836, appointed geologist of Second District New York State geological survey; from 1851 to 1863 State geologist of North Carolina. Is best remembered as the originator and defender of the Taconic system in North America. Biogr. Jules Marcou, Amer. Geol., Jan., 1891, pp. 1-23. Am. Jour. Sei., XX XVII, May, 1864, p. 151. Pop. Sci. Monthly, Jan., 1896.
Emmons, SAMUEL FRANKLIN. Geologist. ;
Born in Boston, Mass., March 29, 1841. Graduated from Harvard in 1861. Studied in Paris and at Freiberg Mining School, Saxony, 1862-1865. Geologist Fourtieth Parallel Survey, 1867-1877. On U. 8. Geological Survey, 1879 to date.
EnpiicH, Freperic Mruter. Mining engineer.
Born in Reading, Pa., June 14, 1851; died in Tucson, Ariz., July 17, 1899. In 18721880, mineralogist and chemist at Smithsonian Institution. In 1873-1879, assistant on U.S. Geological and Geographical Surveys under F. V. Hayden. From 1880 to time of his death engaged as mining engineer in various parts of the West.
ENGELMANN, GEORGE. Naturalist.
Born in Frankfort-on-Main, Germany, February 2, 1809; died in St. Louis, Mo., February 4, 1884. Graduated at Wurzburg University in 1831. Came to America in 1832 and prepared specimens of plants for German museums. In 1835, began the practice of medicine in St. Louis. His records of meteorological observations in the Mississippi Valley are a most valuable source of information on climatology during fifty years. Voluminous writer on botany and other branches of natural history. First president of Academy of Science of St. Louis.
Biogr. Enno Sander. Trans. Acad. of Sci. St. Louis, IV, 1878-86, prelim. pages 1-13. C. A. White. Biogr. Mems. Natl. Acad. Sci., IV., 1902, pp. 1-21.
Evans, JoHN. Physician and geologist.
Born in Portsmouth, N. H., February 14, 1812; died in Washington, D. C., April 13, 1861. In 1847, was assistant to D. D. Owen in the Chippewa district. In 1851, appointed to institute geological researches in Oregon and Washington. Went to Central America with Chiriqui Exploring Expedition, 1860.
Biogr. Am. Jour. Sci., XX XII, Nov., 1861, p. 311.
Born in London, 1780; died in Havre, France, September 28, 1866. Came to United States and in 1834, made examination of the region between the Missouri and Red Rivers. In 1835, made geological reconnaissance from Washington to St. Peters River. Appointed by Great Britain one of commission of two to settle boundary dispute between United States and Canada. British Consul at Havre, assisting in escape of Louis Phillipe in 1848.
J. D. Featherstonhaugh. Am. Geol., April, 1889.

<<<Page: 791>>>

APPENDIX B: BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES. 697 Foster, JoHN WELLS.
Born in Petersham, Mass., March 4, 1815; died in Hyde Park, Chicago, Ill., June 20, 1873. Received collegiate education at Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn., after which he studied law and settled at Zanesville, Ohio. Was assistant to Jackson, and subsequently worked with Whitney on survey of copper lands of Lake Superior. Wrote work on Prehistoric Races of the United States and on The Mississippi Valley, Its Physical Geography, ete., in 1869.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, III, August, 1873, p. 508. Frazer, Perstror. Geologist and chemist.
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., July 24, 1844. Graduated from University of Pennsylvania, 1862; studied in Royal School of Mines, Freiberg, Saxony, 1866-1869. Mineralogist and metallurgist on U. S. Survey under Hayden, 1869-70. Professor of chemistry, University of Pennsylvania, 1870-1874; assistant on second geological survey of Pennsylvania, 1874-1882.
Gasp, Witt1AM More. Paleontologist.Born in Philadelphia, Pa., January 20, 1839; died there, May 30, 1878. In 1862, paleontologist on geological survey of California under Whitney. In 1868, undertook survey in Santo Domingo for private company, and in 1873, published a memoir of topography and geology of that island. In 1873, went to Costa Rica and engaged in a geological and topographical survey.
Biogr. Amer. Jour. Sci., X VI, 1878, p. 164. GeNTH, FrepERIcCK AuGustus. Mineralogist and chemist.
Born in Waechtersbach, in Hesse, May 17, 1820; died in Philadelphia, Pa., February 2, 1893. Took degree of Ph. D. at University of Marburg in 1845; chemical assistant to Bunsen for three years. In 1848, came to America and settled in Philadelphia. In 1872-1888, professor of chemistry in University of Pennsylvania. Best known by his studies of corundum, copper products, and ammonia-cobalt bases.
Biogr. Geo. F. Barker. Natl. Acad. Sci., Biogr. Mems., IV, 1902, pp. 203-231.
GESNER, ABRAHAM. Physician, geologist, and chemist.
Born in Cornwallis, Nova Scotia, May 2, 1797; died in Halifax, Nova Scotia, April 19, 1864. In 1888, appointed provincial geologist of New Brunswick. Aside from his geological work, he achieved distinction as inventor of method for manufacture of illuminating oil from coal and other bituminous substances.
Biogr. G. W. Gesner. Bull. XIV, Natl. Hist. Soe, of New Brunswick, 1896. GIBBS, GEORGE.
Born in Newport, R. I., January 7, 1776; died in Sunswick, near Halletts Cove (now New York City), L. I., August 6, 1833. First vice-president of American Geological Society, founded in 1819; owner of one of the finest mineralogical cabinets of the time.
GiBBs, GEORGE. Lawyer and geologist. Son of Col. George Gibbs.
Born in Sunswick, near Halletts Cove (now New York City), L. I., July 17, 1815; died in New Haven, Conn., April 9, 1873. Graduated from Harvard University and entered upon the practice of law. In 1848, accompanied military expedition to the far West, and settled at Columbia, Oreg. Geologist to survey of railroad route to Pacific; in 1857, appointed on northwest boundary survey, submitting report on geology and natural history of the country. Secretary of Hudson Bay Claims Commission; for some time before his death connected with Smithsonian Institution upon ethnological and philological work.
Biogr. J. A. Stevens. Ann. Rept. Smith. Inst. for 1873, pp. 219-225. Gipson, JOHN BANNISTER. Jurist.
Born in Carlisle, Pa., November 8, 1780; died in Philadelphia, Pa., May 3, 1853. Graduated from Dickinson College in 1798 and admitted to the bar in 1803. Wrote on the trap rocks of the Conewago [ills.

<<<Page: 792>>>

GILBERT, GROVE Karu. Geologist. ;
Born in Rochester, N. Y., May 6, 1843. Graduated from University of Rochester, 1862. Assistant in Ward Museum, Rochester, 1863-1868; geologist on Ohio survey, 1868-1870; on Wheeler survey, 1871-1874; Powell survey, 1875-1879; geologist on U. S. Geological Survey since 1879.
GREEN, Jacos. Conchologist and paleontologist. ;
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., July 26, 1790; died there February 1, 1841. Graduated from University of Pennsylvania in 1806; professor of chemistry and natural history in Princeton, 1818-1822; professor of chemistry in Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, until his death. Wrote on chemistry, paleontology, and botany.
Biogr. Wm. H. Dall, Some Amer. Conchologists, Proc. Biolog. Soc. Washn., IV., 1886-88, p. 104. GRINNELL, GEORGE Birp.
Born in Brooklyn, N. Y., September 20, 1849. Graduated from Yale in 1870. Assistant in osteology in Peabody Museum, Yale, 1874-1880.
Hacer, ArBpert Dayrp. Geologist.
Born in Chester, Vt., November 1, 1817; died in Chicago, Ill., July 29, 1888. In 1855-1857, assistant State naturalist of Vermont. In 1857-1861, assistant State geologist. In 1862-1870, State geologist and curator of the State cabinet of natural history. In 1870-1872, State geologist of Missouri. In 1877-1888, librarian Chicago Historical Society.
Haaur, Arnotp. Geologist.
Born in Boston, Mass., December 3, 1840. Graduated from Yale, 1863; studied at universities of GOttingen and Heidelberg and Freiberg School of Mines, 1863-1867. Geologist on Fortieth Parallel Survey, 1867-1877. Government geologist of Guatemala, 1877-78; engaged in examining mines in northern China, 1878-79; since 1879 a member of U. 8. Geological Survey.
Haaur, James Duncan. Mining engineer.
Born in Boston, Mass., February 26, 1836. Educated at Harvard and Géttingen, Germany, and Royal School of Mines, Freiberg, Saxony. Exploring in South Seas, 1859-1861; manager of copper mines at Lake Superior, 1863-1866; geologist on U. S. Geological Survey fortieth parallel, 1867-1870.
HALpDEMAN, SAMUEL SteamMan. Naturalist.
Born in Locust Grove, Pa., August 12, 1812; died in Chickies, Pa., September 10, 1880. Assistant to H. D. Rogers in geological survey of New Jersey in 1836; astronomer on survey of Pennsylvania, 1837-38. In 1851-1855, professor of natural history in University of Pennsylvania; in 1855, became professor of natural history in Delaware College, Dover, Del.; in 1869-1880, professor of comparative philology in University of Pennsylvania. <A very versatile man and author of some thirty works on philology and one hundred and twenty on various natural science subjects.
Biogr. J. P. Lesley. Nat. Acad. Sci., Biog. Mems., II, 1886. Wm. H. Dall. Some Amer. Conchologists, Proc. Biolog. Soc. Washn., LV, 1886-88, pp. 112-113. Hau, James. Paleontologist. Born in Hingham, Mass., September 12, 1811; died in Echo Hill, Bethlehem,
N. H., August 7, 1898. Studied under Eaton at Rensselaer Institute, Troy, where _
he was subsequently assistant professor. Connected with geological survey of New York—first as assistant to Emmons; took charge of fourth district; after 1848, had charge of entire survey, in which he continued until his death, sometimes carrying on work at his own expense. Besides the New York reports he contributed to Foster and Whitney’s Report on the Lake Superior Region, the Mexican Boundary Report, etc. At one time State geologist of Iowa, and afterwards of Wisconsin. In conjunction with R. P. Whitfield he published important memoirs on paleontology of Ohio, Kentucky, and the Fortieth Parallel.
Biogr. John J. Stevenson. Bull. Geol. Soe. of America, X, 1898, pp. 425-451.
Geol. Mag., Dec. IV, V, 1898, p. 431.

<<<Page: 793>>>

Hawi, James. Clergyman.
Born in Carlisle, Pa., August 22, 1744; died in Bethany, N. C., July 25, 1826. Graduated from Princeton University in 1774. Maintained at his home in North Carolina an ‘‘academy of sciences,’’ in which he was the only teacher.
Haruan, Ricwarp. Physician and paleontologist.
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., September 19, 1796; died in New Orleans, La., September 30, 1843.
Harper, Lewis (Ludwig Hafner).
Of Hamburg, Germany. In 1855-1857, professor of geology and agriculture and State geologist of Mississippi.
Hartt, CHARLES FREDERICK. Geologist.
Born in Fredericton, New Brunswick, August 23, 1840; died in Rio Janeiro, Brazil, March 18, 1878. In 1864, connected with geological survey of New Brunswick. In 1865-1866, geologist on the Thayer Expedition to Brazil. In 1868, appointed professor of natural history in Vassar College, but resigned shortly to accept chair of geology in Cornell University, which he held until time of his death. In 1875, appointed chief of the geological commission of Brazil.
Biogr. G. F. Matthew. Bull. Nat. Hist. Soc. of N. B., IX, 1890, pp. 1-24.
Hawn, Freperick. Civil engineer.
Born in Herkimer County, N. Y., January 5, 1810; died in Leavenworth, Kans., January 31,1898. About 1851 appointed by Swallow assistant on Missouri geological survey, and gaye particular attention to study of the coal regions. Is best known in connection with the discovery of the Permian formation in Kansas.
Biogr. G. C. Broadhead. Am. Geol., X XI, 1898, pp. 267-69.
Hay, Roserr. Geologist.
Born of Scottish ancestors, May, 1835, in Lancashire, England; died in Junction City, Kans., December 14, 1895. Came to America in 1871, and for ten years taught in the public schools. In 1881 appointed State geologist of Kansas. In 1890 geologist in charge of the artesian investigation of the Great Plains under Department of Agriculture. During last five years of his life connected with U. 8. Geological Survey in special work on underground waters of Kansas. His papers were about thirty, principally upon geology.
Biogr. Robt. T. Hill. Bull. Geol. Soe. Amer., VIII, 1896, pp. 370-74.
HaAYpEN, FerpINAND VANDIVEER. Geologist.
Born in Westfield, Mass., September 7, 1829; died in Philadelphia, Pa., December 22,1887. Graduated from Oberlin College in 1850. Assistant to James Hall in 1853; engaged in independent geological work in the West, 1854-1856. Geologist to the Warren Expedition to the Yellowstone region in 1856 and to the Black Hills in 1857. In 1858, with Meek, engaged in explorations in Kansas. In 1859, appointed surgeon and naturalist to exploring party under Capt. W. F. Raynolds about the headwaters of the Missouri. In 1865-1872, professor of geology and mineralogy in University of Pennsylvania. In 1869, appointed United States geologist in charge of survey of Nebraska, and in 1868 to similar position in Wyoming. In 1869-1879, Director U.S. Geological and Geographical Surveys, and from 1880-1886, geologist on United States geological surveys under J. W. Powell.
Biogr. C. A. White. Mem. Nat. Acad. Sei., November, 1894.
Haypen, Horace H.
Born in Windsor, Conn., October 13, 1768; died in Baltimore, Md., January 26, 1844. Trained for profession of architect, and subsequently became practicing dentist. His chief claims to geological recognition lies in his authorship of geological essays published in 1820 and two papers on local geology.
Biogr. Amer. Journal Dental Sciences, IV, No. 4, 1844.

<<<Page: 794>>>

Hrtpreru, SAMUEL Prescorr. Physician.
Born in Methuen, Mass., September 30, 1783; died in Marietta, Ohio, July 24, 1863. Settled in Ohio at Belpre in 1806, and in 1808 removed to Marietta, where he began the first meteorological register in the State, keeping it up for fifty years. One of a commission of three in 1836 to report on geological survey of Ohio. Served as assistant geologist for a time under Mather. His work is largely of an historical nature.
Biogr. Chas. Whittlesey, Mag. of Western History, 1881. Amer. Journ. Sei., XX XVI, 1863, p. 312. Hincarp, EuGENE WALDEMAR. Chemist and geologist.
Born in Zweibrucken, Rhenish Bavaria, January 5, 1833. Came to America in 1835. Educated in Germany, returning to America in 1855. In 1855-1856, assistant to B. L. C. Wailes on State geological survey of Mississippi. . In 1856-1857, chemist _ of the Smithsonian Institution and lecturer on chemistry in National Medical College. In 1858-1860, State geologist of Mississippi. In 1865-1873, professor of chemistry at University of Mississippi. In 1873-1875, professor of geology and natural history, University of Michigan. Since 1875, professor of agricultural chemistry in University of California.
Biogr. Nat. Cyclo. Amer. Biog., X, p. 308. Hrnp, Henry Your. Chemist and geologist.
Born in Nottingham, England, June, 1823. Educated at Leipzig and Cambridge. Came to America in 1846 and the following year settled in Canada. In 1851, became professor of chemistry and geology in Trinity College, Toronto. In 1857, geologist to Red River Exploring Expedition. In 1858, in charge of exploration of country between Red River and Saskatchewan. In 1861, made explorations in Labrador, and in 1864, appointed director of geological survey of New Brunswick. Professor of chemistry and natural history in Kings College, Nova Scotia.
Hircucock, CHARLES Henry. Geologist.
Bornin Amherst, Mass., August 23, 1836. Graduated from Amherst College, 1856. Assistant State geologist of Vermont, 1857-1861; State geologist of Maine, 1861-1862; State geologist of New Hampshire, 1868-1878. In 1866, elected professor of geology in Lafayette College. Since 1868, professor of geology in Dartmouth College.
Hircucock, Epwarp. Geologist, clergyman, and educator.
Born in Deerfield, Mass., May 23, 1793; died in Amherst, Mass., February 27, 1864. Educated as a clergyman and settled over a Congregational Church at Conway, Mass., from 1821-1825. In 1825-1845, professor of chemistry and natural history at Amherst College; in 1845-1855, president of Amherst College; in 1855-1864, professor of geology in Amherst College. In 1830-1833 and 1841-1844, State geologist of Massachusetts; in 1857-1860, State geologist of Vermont. Is best remembered for his work on the drift and the fossil footprints of the sandstones of the Connecticut Valley.
Biogr. C. H. Hitcheock. Am. Geol. XVI, 1895, pp. 133-149. Pop. Sci. Monthly, XLVII, Sept., 1895, pp. 689-696. Am., Jour. Sci., XX XVII, May, 1864, p. 302. Biogr. Mems., Natl. Acad. Sci., I, 1877. Hopcer, JAMEs THatcHerR. Geologist. :
Born in Plymouth, Mass., March 12, 1816; drowned in Lake Huron, October 20, 1871. Assistant on State geological survey of Maine under C. T. Jackson and on that of Pennsylvania under H. D. Rogers. Also served on geological surveys of New Hampshire and Ohio. Was engaged in exploration of mining regions of Lake Superior when drowned in wreck of steamer R. G. Coburn, on Lake Huron.
Houmes, WitirAM Henry. Ethnologist.
Born in Harrison County, Ohio, December 1, 1846. Graduated from McNeely
Normal College, 1870. Assistant on United States geological survey under Hayden,

<<<Page: 795>>>

1872-1880; geologist on United States survey under Powell, 1880-1889. Curator, U. 8. National Museum, 1882-1893; archaeologist in explorations of U. 8. Bureau Ethnology, 1889-1893; curator anthropology, Field Columbian Museum, 1894-1898; head curator of anthropology, U.S. National Museum, 1898-1904; Director, Bureau of American Ethnology, since 1905.
Hovuauton, Doucuass. Explorer and geologist.
Born at Fredonia, N.Y., September 21, 1809; drowned near mouth of Eagle River, Lake Superior, October 13, 1845. Assistant to Eaton in natural sciences at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1828. Admitted to practice of medicine in 1831. Surgeon and botanist to the Schoolcraft Exploring Expedition to the source of the Mississippi River; State geologist of Michigan, 1837-1845.
Biogr. Alvah Bradish. Mem. of Douglas Houghton, Detroit, 1889.
Alex. Winchell. Am. Geol., IV, Sept., 1889, pp. 129-139.
Am. Jour. Sci., V, 1848, pp. 217-227. : Howe tu, Epwin EvuGENE. ’ Born in Genesee County, N. Y., March 12, 1845. In 1872-1873, geologist with Wheeler survey west of one-hundredth meridian. In 1874, connected with the Powell survey of Rocky Mountain region. Husparkp, Brena.
Born in Hamilton, Madison County, N. Y., April 23, 1814; died in Detroit, Mich., June 13, 1896. Graduated from Hamilton College in 1834. Removed to Detroit, Mich., in 1835. Assistant State geologist of Michigan, 1838-1841.
Biogr. Mag. of Western History, IV, 1886. Husparb, OnivER Payson. Chemist.
Born in Pomfret, Conn., March 31, 1809; died in New York City, March 9, 1900. Assistant to B. Silliman in chemistry at Yale, 1831-1836. In 1836-1866, professor of chemistry, mineralogy, and geology in Darmouth College, Hanover, N. H. Lecturer on chemistry and pharmacy at same institution, 1866-1883.
Biogr. E. O. Hovey. Am. Geol., June, 1900, p. 360. Hunt, THomas Sterry. Chemist.
Born in Norwich, Conn., September 5, 1826; died in New York City, February 12, 1892. In 1846-47, chemist to the geological survey of Vermont under C. B. Adams. In 1847-1872, chemist and mineralogist to the geological survey of Canada. In 18561862, lecturer on chemical geology in Laval University of Quebec; subsequently professor of chemistry and mineralogy in McGill University, Montreal. In 1872-1878, professor of geology in Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Biogr. Persifor Frazer. Am. Geol., XI, 1893, pp. 1-13. Canadian Record of Science, V, 1892-93, pp. 145-149. Hyarr, AupHevus. Biologist and paleontologist.
Born in Washington City, April 5, 1838; died in Cambridge, Mass., January 15, 1902. In 1867, curator in Essex Institute, Salem, Mass. In 1871, elected custodian of the Boston Society of Natural History, and in 1881, curator; professor zoology and paleontology in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Biogr. R. 8. Tarr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, Dec., 1885, pp. 261-267. W. O. Crosby. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., XVI, 1903. IrvinG, Rotanp Dugr. Geologist.
Born in New York, April 29, 1847; died in Madison, Wis., May 30, 1888. Began active life as superintendent of smelting works at Greenville, N. J. Assistant on State geological survey of Ohio. In 1870-1888, professor of geology, mineralogy, and metallurgy in University of Wisconsin. In 1873-1879, assistant geologist on geological survey of Wisconsin. In 1880-1888, connected with U. 8. Geological Survey, working in Lake Superior region.
Biogr. T. C. Chamberlin. Am. Geol., III, 1889, pp. 1-6.

<<<Page: 796>>>

Jackson, CHARLES THomAs. Geologist and chemist.
Born in Plymouth, Mass., June 21, 1805; died in Somerville, Mass., August 28, 1880. Educated as physician, but early showed inclination toward geological work. | In 1827-28, made geological explorations in Nova Scotia in company with Francis Alger. In 1837-1839, State geologist of Maine. In 1839-40, State geologist of Rhode Island. In 1839-1843, State geologist of New Hampshire. In 1847, appointed a United States geologist to investigate mineral land of Lake Superior region. Appointed one of the State geologists of New York, but declined.
Biogr. J. B. Woodworth. Am. Geol., XX, 1897, pp. 69-110. eee
James, Epwiy. Physician.
Born in Weybridge, Vt., August 27, 1797; died near Burlington, Ill., October 28, . 1861. In 1820, attached in capacity of botanist and geologist to Long’s exploring expedition to sources of St. Peters River.
Biogr. Am. Jour. Sci., XX XIII, 1862, p. 428,
James, UrntaAn Pierson. Paleontologist.
Born in Goshen, Orange County, N. Y., December 30, 1811; died near. Loveland, Ohio, February 25, 1889. Began life as printer and stereotyper and afterwards became publisher, in which profession he continued till-the time of his death. His work, almost wholly paleontological, was done during spare moments.
Biogr. American Geologist, III, No. 5, 1889, pp. 281-285.
Jounson, WALTER RoGers. Chemist.
Born in Leominster, Mass., June 21, 1794; died in Washington City, April 26, 1852. Prior to 1836 a teacher. In 1836-37, made a survey of coal and iron formations of Pennsylvania. In 1839-1843, professor of physics and chemistry, University of Pennsylvania. In 1843-44, Government expert on relative value of coals. In 1845, chemist at Smithsonian Institution. Founder of American Association of Naturalists and Geologists.
Biogr. Lamb’s Biogr. Dict. of U.S.
Keatine, Witt1am Hyporirus. Chemist.
Born in Wilmington, Del., August 11, 1799; died in London, England, May 17, 1840. In 1822-1828, professor of chemistry in University of Pennsylvania, and in 1823, accompanied Maj. 8. H. Long in expedition to sources of the St. Peters River.
Biogr. Lamb’s Biogr. Dict. of U.S.
Kerr, WASHINGTON CARUTHERS. Geologist.
Born in the Alamance region of Guilford County, N. C., May 24, 1827; died in Asheville, N. C., August 9, 1885. At one time professor in Marshall University, Texas, resigning in 1852 to become a computer in the office of the Nautical Almanac. In 1857-1865, professor in Davidson College, North Carolina. In 1866-1882, State geologist of North Carolina. In 1882-83, connected with the U. 8. Geological Survey.
Biogr. J. A. Holmes, Journ. Elisha Mitchell Scientific Soc., Part II, 1887, pp. 1-24. :
Kina, CLARENCE. Geologist.
Born in Newport, R. I., January 6, 1842; died in Phoenix, Ariz., December 24, 1901. Graduated at Sheffield Scientific School in 1862. In 1863, made a horseback journey across the continent, and for three years was volunteer assistant to Prof. J. D. Whitney on the geological survey of California. During 1865-66, made an exploration of the desert regions of southern California and Arizona as scientific aid to General McDowell. In 1866-67, organized the Geological Survey of the 40th Parallel and was appointed director. From 1879 until 1881, director of the newly organized U. 8. Geological Survey.
Biogr. S. F. Emmons, Am. Jour. Sci., March, 1902, pp. 224-237. S. F. Emmons, Eng. and Min. Jour., Dee. 28, 1901, p. 844; Jan. 4, 1902, pp. 1, 3.

<<<Page: 797>>>

Kine, FRANKLIN Hiram.
Born in Whitewater, Wis., June 8, 1848. Graduated from State Normal School, Whitewater, in 1872. On Wisconsin geological survey, 1873-1876; professor of natural sciences, River Falls State Normal School, 1878-1888; since 1888, professor of agricultural physics at University of Wisconsin.
KircHett, WiLiiAM. Geologist.
Born in East Madison, N. J., April 21, 1827; died, December 29, 1861. Studied medicine, but did not engage in its practice. Taught natural sciences in Newark Institute, and, about 1850, went to Europe and studied in the Mining School at Freiberg, Germany. In 1854-1856, State geologist of New Jersey.
LAPHAM, INCREASE ALLEN. Naturalist.
Born in Palmyra, N. Y., March 7, 1811; died near Oconomowoc, Wis., September, 1876. An all-round scientist and educator; author of many papers on botany, climatology, archeology, cartography, and geology. Chief geologist of Wisconsin, 18731875.
Biogr. N. H. Winchell, American Geologist, XIII, 1894, pp. 1-38. Lea, Isaac. Conchologist and mineralogist.
Born in Wilmington, Del., March 4, 1792; died in Philadelphia, Pa., December 8, 1886. Trained to mercantile life in Philadelphia, retiring from business in 1851. Was an authority on the Unionidee, of which he made a very large collection, subsequently willed, together with his large and valuable collection of minerals and gems, to the Smithsonian Institution, in Washington.
Biogr. Pop. Science Monthly, July, 1884, pp. 404-411. Wm. H. Dall, Some American Conchologists. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, IV, 1886-88, pp. 118-120. Le Conte, Jonn LAWRENCE. Naturalist.
Born in New York, May 3, 1825; died in Philadelphia, Pa., November 15, 1883. His work was mainly in entomology. : Lr Conte, JosepH. Physician and naturalist. y
Born on Woodmanston plantation, Liberty County, Ga., February 26, 1823; died in Yosemite, Cal., July 6, 1901. Of Huguenot and Puritan ancestry. In 1845, graduated from College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York and became practicing physician in Georgia. In 1850, studied at Cambridge under Agassiz; in 1852, professor of science at Oglethorpe University, Midway, Ga.; in 1853-1856, professor of natural history at University of Georgia, Athens, Ga.; in 1857-1868, professor of chemistry and geology at South Carolina College, Columbia; in 1869, called to University of California to fill chair of botany, zoology, and geology, remaining there until his death. A voluminous writer on geology and kindred subjects.
Biogr. S. B. Christy, Trans. Amer. Inst. Min. Engs., XX XI, 1902, pp. 765-793. Leripy, JosepH. Vertebrate paleontologist.
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., September 9, 1823; died in Philadelphia, Pa., August 30, 1891. Educated as a physician, and in 1844, assistant in chemical laboratory of Doctors Hare and J. B. Rogers. In 1846, demonstrator of anatomy in the Franklin Medical College. In 1852, substituted for Doctor Horner as professor of anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania, and in 1853, on the death of Doctor Horner, elected to full professorship. In 1871, appointed professor of natural history in Swarthmore College. Was one of the first Americans to take up the study of vertebrate fossils, and was prominently identified with the early Hayden and other western geological and geographical surveys.
Biogr. E. J. Nolan, Pop. Sci. Monthly, X VII, Sept. 1880, pp. 684-91. Lestey, J. Perer. Topographer and geologist.
Born in Philadelphia, September 17, 1819, of Scotch extraction; died in Milton, Mass., June 1, 1908. In 1839-1841, assistant on the State survey of Pennsylvania under H, D. Rogers, mainly in the capacity of topographer., In 1847, became pastor

<<<Page: 798>>>

of a Congregational Church in Milton, Mass. This he soon resigned, and thereafter devoted himself to science. Was United States commissioner at the Paris Exposition in 1867. In 1872, professor of geology and dean of faculty in scientific department of the University of Pennsylvania. In 1874, chief geologist of the second geological survey of Pennsylvania.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, Sept. 1884, pp. 693-5.
Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., XV, 1904, p. 532.
Persifor Frazer in American Geologist, XX XII, No. 3, 1903, pp. 132-6. LesquEeREuX, Leo. Botanist and paleobotanist.
Born in Fleurier, Neuchatel, Switzerland, November 18, 1806; died in Columbus, Ohio, October 25, 1889. Came to America in 1848 and worked first at Boston with Agassiz and subsequently with Sullivant in Columbus, Ohio. Served as paleobotanist on geological surveys of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, and Arkansas; also in a similar capacity on the U. 8. Geological Survey under F. V. Hayden.
Biogr. Edward Orton, American Geologist, V, 1890, pp. 284-296. L. R. MeCabe in Pop. Sci. Monthly, X XX, Apr. 1887, pp. 835-40; XX XVIII, Dee. 1889, p. 288. Ligser, Oscar Montcomery. (Geologist.
Born in Boston, Mass., September 18, 1830; died in Richmond, Va., June 27, 1862. In 1850-51, State geologist of Mississippi; in 1854-55, State eolocite of Alabama; and in 1856-1860, State geologist of South Carolina.
Biog. Lamb’s Biog. Dict. of U.S. Lirrie, GEorGE. Geologist.
Born in Tuscaloosa, Ala., February 11, 1838. Graduated from University of Alabama in 1856; professor natural sciences, Oakland College, Mississippi, 1860-61; State geologist of Mississippi, 1866-1872; professor of mineralogy and geology, University of Mississippi, 1866-1874 and 1881-1889; State geologist of Georgia, 1874-1881; professor of geology and agriculture, University of Georgia, 1878-1880.
Lirron, ABRAM. Chemist.
Born in Dublin, Ireland, May 20, 1814; died in St. Louis, Mo., September 23, 1901. Came to America about 1817. For two seasons connected with geological survey under D. D. Owen, and reported on lead mines of southeast Missouri in the Second Annual Report of the State Survey.
Locks, JOHN.
Born in Lempster, N. H., February 19, 1792; died in Cincinnati, Ohio, July 10, 1856. By profession a physician and teacher. In 1835-36, professor of chemistry in the Medical College of Ohio. In 1837-1839, assistant to W. W. Mather on the State geological survey of Ohio. In 1839-1844, assistant to D. D. Owen in the survey of the mineral lands of the United States. In 1847-48, aid to Jackson in surveys of the mineral lands of Michigan. More widely known for his magnetic and astronomical researches than as a geologist.
Biogr. N. H. Winchell, American Geologist, XIV, 1894, pp. 341-56. Loaan, WinttiAM Epmonp. Geologist.
Born in Montreal, Canada, April 20, 1798; died in Castle Malgwyn, Llechryd, South Wales, June 22, 1875. Educated in Scotland and passed his early manhood in England and Wales, but returned to America in 1840. During 1842-1870, director of the geological survey of Canada.
Biogr. B. J. Harrington, Life of Sir Wm. E. Logan, Montreal, 1883. Also Geol. Soc, London and Canadian Naturalist, n. ser., VIII, No. 1, 1875, MACFARLANE, JAMES. Lawyer.
Born in Gettysburg, Pa., September 2, 1819; died in Towanda, Pa., October 12, 1885. Engineer of the North Branch Canal; a leading member of the bar at Towanda; a successful coai operator and railway builder. Author of The Coal Regions of America and An American Geological Railway Guide.
Biogr. I. C. White, American Geologist, VII, 1891, pp. 145-149.

<<<Page: 799>>>

APPENDIX B: BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES. 705 As. Macture, WILLIAM.
Born in Ayr, Scotland, in 1763; died in San Angel, Mexico, March 23, 1840. Came to America at the age of 19 on mercantile business but returned almost immediately to London, where, as partner in the hcuse of Miller, Hart & Co., he remained until 1796, accumulating a considerable fortune. In the last-named year he again came to America and, it is said, took out naturalization papers. He was a liberal patron of science and for twenty-two years, beginning with December, 1817, was president of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, to which institution he donated his valuable private library and $25,000 in money.
Biogr. S. G. Morton, Mem. of Wm. Maclure, read July 1, 1841, and published by direction of Philadelphia Academy of Sciences. Marcou, Juues. Geologist.
Born in Salins, Jura, France, April 20, 1824; died in Cambridge, Mass., April 17, 1898. Came to America in 1847 and was associated for a time with Louis Agassiz. In 1853 entered United States service and was one of the geologists of the Pacific Railroad Survey of the thirty-fifth parallel, and the author of a geological map of the United States. In 1853 returned to Europe and was professor of geology in the Polytechnic School of Zurich until 1859. In 1860-1864, in charge of division of paleontology of the Museum of Comparative Anatomy, Cambridge.
Marcy, Ortver. Educator.
Born in Coleraine, Mass., February 13, 1820; died in Evanston, Ill., March 19, 1899. Instructor in mathematics and geology at Wilbraham, Mass., for sixteen years prior to 1862, when he was elected professor of natural sciences in Northwestern University, at Evanston, Ill.
Biogy. A. R. Crook, American Geologist, XXIV, 1899, pp. 67-72. Marsu, OrHNnieEL CHARLES. Vertebrate paleontologist.
Born near Lockport, N. Y., October 29, 1831; died in New Haven, Conn., March 18, 1899. Professor of vertebrate paleontology in Yale College from 1866 to time of death. Vertebrate paleontologist, U. S. Geological Survey, 1882-1899. Honorary curator vertebrate paleontology, U. S. National Museum, 1894-1899. Since 1870 identified with explorations in the West, and chiefly instrumental in bringing together the large and valuable collection of vertebrate remains now in the National Museum.
Biogr. C. E. Beecher, Am. Jour. Sci., VII, 1899, pp. 403-28.
MARVINE, ARCHIBALD Ropertson. Geologist. Born in Auburn, N. Y., September 26, 1848; died in Washington City, March 2, 1876. In 1870, assistant geologist to the Santo Domingo expedition. In 1871, astronomer, and afterwards geologist to the Wheeler surveys west of the one hundredth meridian. In 1872, with Professor Pumpelly in the Keweenaw copper district of Lake Superior, and from 1873 until his death, connected with the U. 8S. Geographical and Geological Surveys under F. V. Hayden. Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, IX, 1876, p. 383. Biogr. J. W. Powell, Bull. Philos. Soc. Washington, II. 1874-1878. Appendix X, p. (53), G. K. Gilbert, Am. Jour. Sei., XI, 1876, p. 424.
Matuer, WILLIAM WILLIAMs. Geologist.
Born in Brooklyn, N. Y., May 24, 1804; died in Columbus, Ohio, February 26, 1859. Trained at West Point Military Academy. In 1829-1835, assistant professor in chemistry, mineralogy, and geology at that academy. In 1833, professor of geology at Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn. In 1835, assistant to G. W. Featherstonhaugh. For a short period professor of chemistry, mineralogy, and geology in the University of Louisiana. In 1836-1846, in charge geological survey first district, State of New York. In 1837-1839, State geologist of Ohio, and made geological reconnaissance of Kentucky in 1838-39. In 1842-1850, connected with the Ohio University at Athens, Ohio, in capacity of professor of natural sciences, or vice-president and act-
NAT Mus 1904

<<<Page: 800>>>

ing president. Acting professor of geology at Marietta College, 1846. Agricultural
chemist to the State and secretary of the State board of agriculture, Ohio, 1850-1854. Biogr. Lamb’s Dict. of the U.S.
Meek, FietpinGc Braprorp. Paleontologist.
.Born in Madison, Ind., December 10, 1817; died in Washington City, December 21, 1876. Assistant to D. D. Owen, surveys of Iowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota, 1848-49, Assistant to James Hall, 1852-1858. Associated with F. V. Hayden on the Western Surveys beginning with 1853. In 1858, removed to Washington, where he continued to reside until his death.
Biogr. C. A. White, Mem. Nat. Acad. Sci., 1896.
MircHe.i, ExvisHa. Naturalist.
Born in Washington, Conn., August 19, 1793; died on Black Mountain, N. C., June 27, 1857. Professor of mathematics, University of North Carolina, 1818 until his death, which was the result of an accident while exploring what is now known as Mount Mitchell in North Carolina. He was an all-round naturalist, and remembered for his works on the geology and general natural history of the State and the Mount Mitchell localities in particular.
Biogr. Journal, Elisha Mitchell, Sci. Soc., I, 1884, p. 6. Obit. Amer. Journ. Sci. X XTV, 1857, p. 299. Mircuitt, SAMUEL LATHAM. Naturalist.
Born in North Hempstead, Long Island, August 20, 1764; died in New York City, September 7, 1831. Educated asa physician. In 1792-1801, professor of natural history, chemistry, and agriculture in Columbia College. In 1801-1813, served in Congress. In 1808-1820, professor of natural sciences in College of Physicians and Surgeons, and later professor of materia medica and botany in the same institution. An extremely versatile and gifted man, and one of the founders of the Society for the Promotion of Agriculture, Manufacture, and the Useful Arts, in 1793.
Biogr. H. L. Fairchild, History New York Acad. Sci., 1887, p. 57. Morton, SamuEL GrorGE. Conchologist and paleontologist.
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., January 26, 1799; died in Philadelphia May 15, 1851. Trained for mercantile career. Graduated at University of Pennsylvania in medicine in 1820, and alterwards studied in Europe. Practiced medicine in Philadelphia. His synopsis of organic remains in the Cretaceous formation of the United States gave him scientific reputation. In 1839-1848, professor of anatomy in Pennsylvania Medical College. President, Philadelphia Academy National Sciences in 1849.
Biogr. Wm. H. Dall. Some American Conchologists. Proc. Bio. Soc. of Washington, IV, 1886-8, p. 105. Munpce, BensAMIN FRANKLIN. Chemist and geologist.
Born in Orrington, Me., August 11, 1817; died in Manhattan, Kans., November 21, 1879. Educated as a lawyer. arate 1859-60, employed as chemist in oil refineries. In 1864, appointed State geologist of Kansas. In 1865-1873, professor of natural history in the Kansas Agricultural College.
Biogr. S. W. Williston. American Geologist, XXIII, No. 6, 1899, pp. 339-345, Murray, ALEXANDER. Geologist.
Born at Dollerie House, Crieff, in Perthshire, Scotland, June 2, 1810; died there, December 16, 1884. Came to Canada in 1848 as assistant to Logan on geological survey of Canada. From 1864 to 1880, engaged in making geological survey of Newfoundland.
Biogr. Robert Bell. Canadian Record of Science, V, 1882-3, pp. 77-96. MourrisH, JoHN M.
Born in Cornwall, England, March 8, 1820; died in Mazomanie, Wis., August 17, 1886. Was superintendent of mine in Cornwall. Came to America and settled at Mineral Point, Wis., about 1848. In 1860 removed to Mazomanie, Wis., where he

<<<Page: 801>>>

engaged in mercantile pursuits in 1865. In early life a regularly ordained preacher in the Protestant Methodist Church. State geologist of Wisconsin in 1870.
Biogr. Mazomanie, Wis., ‘‘Sickle,’’? Aug. 21, 1886. NEWBERRY, JOHN StroNG. Stratigraphic geologist and paleontologist.
Bornin Windsor, Conn., December 22, 1822; died in New Haven, Conn., December 7, 1892. Received degree of M. D. from Cleveland Medical School in 1848. Practiced medicine in Cleveland, 1851-1854. Geologist with Lieutenant Wilkinson’s party in Pacific Railroad survey, 1855; with Lieutenant Ives in exploration of Colorado River in 1857; with Captain Macomb’s party in Mexico in 1859. From 1866 to the time of his death professor of geology and paleontology in Columbia College, New York City. In 1869-1884, State geologist of Ohio.
Biogr. J. J. Stevenson. Am. Geologist, XII, 1893, pp. 1-26.
J. F. Kemp. School of Mines Quarterly, 1893.
H. L. Fairchild. Hist. N. Y. Acad. Sciences, 1887. Newton, Henry. Geologist. ’ Born in New York, August 12, 1845; died in Black Hills of Dakota, August 5, 1877. Graduated from College of City of New York and from Columbia College (Sciool of Mines). In 1869-1876, assistant in metallurgy and geology at Columbia. Assistant geologist of Ohio geological survey and in 1876, assistant engineer on Black Hills expedition. In 1877, was appointed professor of mineralogy and metallurgy in Ohio State University, but did not live to fill that chair. Nites, WitntiAM Harmon. Geologist and educator.
Bornin Northampton, Mass. Educated at Harvard and Yale. Professor of physical geology and geography in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1871-1878; professor of geology and geography, 1878-1902.
Norwoop, JoseEpH GRANVILLE. Physician and paleontologist. _
Born in Woodford County, Ky., December 20, 1807; died in Columbia, Mo., May 6, 1895. Educated asa physician. In 1840-1843, professor of surgery in Madison Medical Institute, Indiana. In 1843-1847, professor of medicine in the St. Louis University. In 1847-1851, assistant geologist with D. D. Owen on the surveys of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota. In 1851-1858, State geologist of Illinois. In 1858-1860, assistant geologist of Missouri. In 1860-1870, professor of geology, chemistry, and natural sciences in University of Missouri. Writings on geology mainly of a paleontological nature.
Biogr. G. C. Broadhead. Amer. Geol., XVI, No. 2, Aug., 1895, p. 69. OutmstEeD, Denison. Educator.
Born in East Hartford, Conn., June 18, 1791; died in New Haven May 13, 1859. He was graduated from Yale in 1813. Tutor there, 1815-1817. In 1817, appointed professor of chemistry in the University of North Carolina. In 1824-25, engaged in making a geological and mineralogical survey of North Carolina. During 1825 to 1835, professor of mathematics and natural philosophy in Yale. From 1835 to time of his last illness, professor of natural philosophy and astronomy in Yale. Author of text-books on natural philosophy, astronomy, and meteorology, and perhaps most widely known by his papers on meteoric showers.
Biogr. Am. Jour. Sci. XXVIII, Nov., 1859, pp. 109-118.
New Englander, August, 1859.
Popular Science Monthly, Jan., 1895, pp. 401-408. Orton, Epwarp. Geologist.
Born in Deposit, Delaware County, N. Y., March 9, 1829; died in Columbus, Ohio, October 16, 1899. Studied for the ministry and was ordained pastor of the Presbyterian church at Downsville, Delaware County, N. Y. In 1856 he resigned to become professor of natural sciences in New York State Normal School at Albany. Principal of the preparatory department of Antioch College, in Yellowsprings, Ohio, from 1865 to 1872, being elected to the presidency of the college at the latter date. Became president of the State Agricultural College in 1873, which position he occu

<<<Page: 802>>>

pied until time of his death. Became State geologist of Ohio in 1882. His principal work as an investigator related to the occurrence and origin of petroleum and clays. Biogr. J. J. Stevenson. Journ. of Geol., VIII, No. 3, 1900, pp. 205-213. Science, Jan. 5, 1900, pp. 1-12. Pop. Sci. Monthly, March, 1900, pp. 607-618. > Amer. Geologist, XX V, Apr., 1900, pp. 197-210. E. O. Hovey. Eng. & Min. Journ., XLVIII, No. 17, Oct. 21, 1899, p. 485. OweEN, Davin Date. Geologist.
Born near New Lanark, Scotland, June 24, 1807; died in New Harmony, Ind., November 13, 1860. Came to America in 1824, but returned to Scotland in 1826, returning again to America in 1827. Graduated as doctor of medicine in 1836. Connected with State geological survey of Tennessee under Troost. State geologist of Indiana, 1837-38. Made surveys of the Dubuque and Mineral Point districts of Wisconsin and Iowa, 1839-40. In 1847, was appointed United States geologist, and directed to make survey of the Chippewa land district. In 1854, was appointed State geologist of Kentucky; in 1857, State geologist of Arkansas; in 1859, appointed for the second time State geologist of Indiana.
Biogr. American Geologist, IV, Aug., 1889, pp. 65-72. Owen, Ricoarp. Educator.
Born in New Lanark, Scotland, January 6, 1810; died in New Harmony, Ind., March 25, 1890. Came to America with his brother, David Dale Owen, in 1827. Was chief assistant to his brother, David Dale, during explorations of northern shore of Lake Superior. For a time professor in Western Military Institute in Kentucky, and the State University in Nashville. Professor of natural sciences in University of Indiana from 1864 to 1879.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, X XIII, pp. 109-113; Pop. Sci. Monthly, XX XVII, p. 144. PEALE, ALBERT CHARLES. Geologist.
Born in Hecksherville, Pa., April 1, 1849. Graduated from University of Pennsylvania, M. D., in 1871. Mineralogist and geologist, U. 8. Geological and Geographical Survey of Territories, 1871-1879; geologist, U. 8S. Geological Survey, 1881-1898. Since 1898 he has had charge of paleobotanical collections in U. 8. National Museum.
PercrvaL, JAMES GATES. Geologist and litterateur.
Born in Kensington, Conn., September 15, 1795; died in Hazelgreen, W*s., May 2, 1856. Received the degree of M. D. in 1820, but never practiced medicine. In 1824, professor of chemistry at the West Point Military Academy. In 1835, was appointed, in company with Prof. C. U. Shepard, to make geological and mineralogical survey of Connecticut. State geologist of Wisconsin, 1854-1856.
Biogr. Am. Journ. Sci., X XII, 1856, pp. 150-1. x Geol. Survey of Wisconsin, 1856. Preface.
Perry, JoHN BuLKLEy. Clergyman and geologist. : Born in Richmond, Berkshire County, Mass., December 12, 1825; died in Cambridge, Mass., October 30, 1872. Graduated in theology from Andover in 1853, and was preacher until 1867. In that year was appointed lecturer on geology and assistant to Louis Agassiz in paleontology at Harvard. In 1869, lectured on geology in University of Vermont. In 1871, accepted professorship of geology in Oberlin, Ohio.
Hemminways Gazetteer of Vt., for 1904. Amer. Jour. Sci., IV, 1872, p. 424. Peter, Ropert. Chemist.
Born in Cornwall, England, January 21, 1805; diedin Louisville, Ky., 1894. Came to America in 1821. In 1830, professor of chemistry in the Western University of Pennsylvania. In 1832, professor of chemistry in Morrison College, Lexington, Ky. Also served in a similar position in the Transylvania University and in the Kentucky School of Medicine at Louisville. Subsequent to 1865, professor of chemistry in the

<<<Page: 803>>>

Kentucky State College. Was at the head of the chemical department of the State Geological Survey, 1854-1861, and particularly active in the study of soils and mineral waters. :
Biogr. Memorial Trans. Ky. State Med. Soe. ITI, 1895. Porrer, WittiAM BLEECKER. Mining engineer and metallurgist.
Born in Schenectady, N. Y., March 23, 1846. Graduated from Columbia, 1866; assistant, geology, Columbia, 1869-1871. Assistant on geological survey of Ohio; professor mining and metallurgy, Washington University, St. Louis, 1871.
Powe, JoHN Westey. Ethnologist and administrator.
Born in Mount Morris, N. Y., March 24, 1834; died in Haven, Me., September 23, 1902. Served through civil war, reaching rank of major. After war, professor of geology in Illinois Wesleyan University and Illinois Normal University. Explored Grand Canyon of Colorado, 1869. In 1871-1879, at head of survey of the Rocky Mountains. In 1879, the Bureau of Ethnology was established and Major Powell made director, a place that he held until his death. In 1881-1894, also director of U. S. Geological Survey.
Wm. H. Brewer. Am. Jour. Sci., XIV, Noy., 1902. pp. 377-382. Biogr. G. P. Merrill. Am. Geologist, June, ’03. pp. 327-383. Prime, FrReperIcK. Geologist and metallurgist.
Born in Philadelphia, March 1, 1846. Graduated from Columbia College, 1865, A.M. Studied four years at Royal School of Mines, Freiberg, Saxony. Assistant professor Columbia School of Mines, 1869-70; professor geology and metallurgy, Lafayette College, 1870-1879; assistant State geologist of Pennsylvania, 1874-1879; professor natural history, Girard College, since 1895.
PuMPELLY, RAPHAEL. Geologist.
Born in Oswego, N. Y., September 8, 1837. In 1862-63, employed in economic work by Japanese and Chinese Governments. In 1865, appointed. professor of mining engineering in Harvard University. In 1869-1871, State geologist of Michigan, and, 1872-73, director of State survey of Missouri. In 1881, director northern transcontinental survey, and, 1884-1890, in charge archean division of the U. S. Geological Survey.
Biogr. Nat. Cyclopedia, VI, p. 362. Reprietp, Witi1AmM C. Meteorologist.
Born near Middletown, Conn., March 26, 1789; died in New York City, February 12, 1857. Wrote principally on meteorology, being the author of some 62 papers on this subject. Also wrote articles on geology, with particular reference to the eastern Triassic areas.
Biogr. Am. Jour. Sci., X XIII, 1857, pp. 292-293; X XIV, 1857, pp. 355-373; Canadian Nat. & Geol., II, 1857, pp. 426-446. H. L. Fairchild. History of New York Academy of Science, 1887, pp. 76-81. Roerrer, WituiAM T. Mineralogist.
Born in Peilau, Lower Silesia, March 7, 1810; died in Bethlehem, Pa., March 11, 1880. Came to America in 1840 in the service of the Moravian Church. In 1866, was appointed professor of mineralogy and geology and curator of museum in Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa., retaining the professorship for three years, but remaining curator until 1871. His writings were mostly of a mineralogical nature.
Biogr. Am. Jour. Sei., XIX, 1880, p. 340.
Rogers, Henry Darwin. Geologist.
Born in Philadelphia, August 1, 1808, and died near Glasgow, Scotland, May 29, 1866. Professor of chemistry and natural philosophy in Dickinson College, 1830-31. Professor of geology and mineralogy in University of Pennsylvania, 1835-1846. State geologist of New Jersey, 1835-1840; State geologist of Pennsylvania, 1846-1852; regius professor of natural history in University of Glasgow, Scotland, 1857-1866.

<<<Page: 804>>>

Roaers, WILLIAM Barton. Geologist and educator. ' Born in Philadelphia, Pa., December 7, 1804; died in Boston, Mass., May 30, 1882.
Professor in William and Mary College, 1827-1835. Professor of natural history, University of Virginia, 1835-1853. Director of the geological survey of Virginia, 1835-1842. One of the founders and president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1862 to the time of his death. President of American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1875.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, LX, 1876, pp. 606-611.
Life and Letters of W. B. Rogers, The Riverside Press, Cambridge, Mass. Rominacer, Cart Lupwia. Physician and paleontologist.
Sorn in Schnaitheim, Wurttemberg, Germany, December 31, 1820. Graduated from University of Tiibingen in 1839, Assistant in chemical laboratory of same university, 1842-1845. In 1845-1848, studied geological structure of various countries of Europe. Came to United States in 1848 and practiced medicine in Cincinnati for twenty-five years. In 1870-1883, director of the geological survey of Michigan. Rurrin, Epmunp. Agriculturist.
Born in Prince George County, Va., January 5, 1794; died, June 17, 1865. Wrote principally on soilsand manures. For atime agricultural surveyor of South Carolina.
RussEui, Isragi Cook. Geologist and geographer.
Born in Garrattsville, N. Y., December 10, 1852. Graduated from New. York University. Postgraduate studies in School of Mines, Columbia. Member U. 8. Transit of Venus expedition to New Zealand, 1874-75; assistant in geology, Columbia, 1875-1877; assistant geologist on U. 8. Geological and Geographical Survey west of one-hundredth meridian, 1878; geologist U. 8. Geological Survey, 1880-1892; professor of geology, University of Michigan, since 1892.
SAFFORD, JAMES MERRILL. Geologist.
Born in Putnam (now Zanesville), Ohio, August 13, 1822. Graduated from Ohio University, at Athens, in 1844. Professor of natural science at Cumberland University, Lebanon, Tenn., from 1848 to 1872. State geologist of Tennessee, 1854-1860 and 1871-1889. For twenty-five years professor of geology in Vanderbilt University, 1875-1900.
ScHootcrart, Henry Rowen. Explorer.
Born in Albany County, N. Y., March 28, 1793; died in Washington City, December 10, 1864. Was trained as land surveyor and became early connected with western exploring expeditions. Was naturalist and mineralogist on the expedition to explore the sources of the Mississippi River and investigate the copper deposits of Lake Superior, 1820-1822. Traveled extensively in central portions of the Mississippi Valley in 1¢24-25. In charge of an expedition to upper Mississippi Valley in 1832. Best known as traveler and explorer, but his notes contain much material which at the time was of geological interest and importance.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, May, 1890, pp. 113-121. National Magazine, Jan. 1855. ScuppeEr, SamueL Hupsarp. Entomologist and paleontologist.
Born in Boston, Mass., April 13, 1887. Graduated from Williams College, 1857; Lawrence Scientific School, B. S., 1862. Assisted Louis Agassiz in Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard, 1862-1864; secretary Boston Society of Natural History, 1862-1870; president of same, 1880-1887. Paleontologist, U. S. Geological Survey. Voluminous writer on living and fossil insects.
SeLtwyn, ALFRED RicHarp Crciu. Stratigraphic geologist. 3orn in Kilmington, Somersetshire, England, July 28, 1828; died in Vancouver, British Columbia, October 19, 1902. Assistant geologist on geological survey of Great Britain from 1845 to 1852. In 1853, appointed to undertake geological survey of Victoria, Australia; also made report on Tasmanian coal and gold fields, and in

<<<Page: 805>>>

APPENDIX B: BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES. la
1859, made survey of South Australia. In 1869, succeeded Sir William Logan as director of geological survey of Canada. In 1871, undertook exploring expedition into British Columbia. His publications number more than eighty books and pamphlets on geological subjects.
Biogr. Henry Woodward. Geological Magazine, London, Feb., 1899, pp. 49-55.
H.M. Ami. American Geologist, XX XI, No. 1, Jan. 1903, pp. 1-21. SHALER, NATHANIEL SoutHGate. Geologist and educator.
Born in Newport, Ky., February 20, 1841. Graduated from Harvard in 1862. Instructor zoology and geology Lawrence Scientific School, 1868-1872; professor paleontology, 1868-1887, and since then professor geology, Harvard University; director, Kentucky geological survey, 1873-1880.
SHEPARD, CHARLES UpHam. Mineralogist.
Born in Little Compton, R. I., June 29, 1804; died in Charleston, 8. C., May 1, 1886. Graduated from Amherst College in 1824. Assisted Professor Silliman at Yale College, 1827-1845. State mineralogist of Connecticut, 1835-1837; 1845-1852; and 1861-1877, professor of chemistry and natural history in Amherst College, Massachu‘setts. During. 1854-1861 and 1865-1869, professor of chemistry at South Carolina Medical College, Charleston.
Biogr. Am. Journ. Science, X X XI, 1886, p. 482. SHUMARD, BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. Paleontologist.
Born in Lancaster, Pa., November 24, 1820; died in St. Louis, Mo., April 14, 1869. Educated as a physician, but early became interested in paleontology. Contributed to Owen’s Report on the Geology of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota. In 1850, accompanied Doctor Evans on his geological reconnaissance of Oregon. In 1853, was appointed assistant geologist and paleontologist of the Missouri geological survey under G. C. Swallow. State geologist of Texas, 1858-1861. His work was almost wholly of a paleontological nature.
Biogr. Amer. Geol., IV, No. 1, July, 1899, pp. 1-6. Am. Journ. Science and Arts, XLVIII, 1869, p. 294. Siruiman, BensJAMIN. Chemist and educator.
Born in New Stratford (now Trumbull), Conn., August 8, 1779; died in New Haven, Conn., November 24, 1864. Professor of chemistry and natural history at Yale College, New Haven, Conn., 1802-1853. Founded the American  Journal of Science in 1818. Was noted as teacher, public lecturer, and writer more than an original investigator.
Am. Journ. of Science and Arts, XX XIX, May, 1865, p. 1.
George P. Fisher. Life of Benjamin Silliman, N. Y., Scribner & Co., 1866.
Memoir of Benjamin Silliman by Alexis Caswell. Mem. Nat. Acad. of Sci., I, 1877.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, XXIII, June, 1883, pp. 259-266. SILLIMAN, BENJAMIN, Jr. Chemist.
Born in New Haven, Conn., December 4, 1816; died in New Haven, January 14,
1885. In 1837-1846, assistant professor, and 1837-1885, professor of chemistry at Yale College.
Smirn, C. D. Clergyman.
Born in Buncombe County, N. C., April 1, 1813. By profession a Methodist clergyman, but during a portion of 1859 and 1860 was connected with the geological survey of North Carolina under Ebenezer Emmons. Was also for a time connected with the State survey under W. C. Kerr.
SmitH, EuGENE ALLEN. Geologist.
Born in Washington, Autauga County, Ala., October 27, 1841. Graduated from University of Alabama, 1862. In 1865-1868, studied in Germany, returning to America and becoming assistant to Dr. George Little on geological survey of Mississippi. In 1871 became professor of geology and mineralogy in University of Alabama, and in 1873 was appointed State geologist, which position he still holds.

<<<Page: 806>>>

Smirn, Joun LAwrence. Mineralogical chemist.
Born in Charleston, 8. C., December 17, 1818; died in Louisville, Ky., October 12, 1883. Practicing physician in Charleston, 8. C., and State assayer for North and South Carolina. Mining engineer to the Turkish Government, 1846-1850. Commissioner to Paris Exposition in 1867. Published many papers on the chemical composition of American minerals and was an authority on the subject of meteorites.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, VI, Dee. 1874, pp. 283-236. Biogr. Benj. Silliman. Nat. Acad. Sci., Biogr. Memoirs. II, 1886. SquirE, JosEPH. Mining engineer.
Born in England. Came to America at age of 18. Employed in works of Peabody Furnace Company, at Providence, R. I., where he learned mining. Subsequently moved to Kansas. In 1859, went to Alabama and became engaged in coal mining and the work of a mining engineer. After 1879 was employed part of the time by State geological survey. ;
SreveENSON, JOHN JAMES. Geologist and educator.
Born in New York City, October 10, 1841. Graduated from New York University in 1863. United States geologist, 1873-74; with Wheeler survey west of onehundredth meridian, 1878-1880; geologist of Pennsylvania geological survey, 1875-1878, 1881-82; professor of geology, New York University, since 1871.
SwaLitow, GEORGE Ciinton. Stratigraphic geologist.
Born in Buckfield, Oxford County, Me., in 1817; died at Evanston, Ill., April 20, 1899. Lecturer on botany as applied to agriculture and mechanical arts at Bowdoin College, 1843; principal of Brunswick Female Seminary, 1843-1849; principal of Hampden Academy, Maine, 1849; professor of chemistry, geology, and mineralogy of the University of the State of Missouri, 1851-1853; State geologist of Missouri, 1853-1861; professor of chemistry and natural science in the University of Missouri, 1857-58; assistant geoldgist of Kansas, 1864; State geologist of Kansas, 1865-66; professor of agriculture in the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Missouri, 1870; professor of botany, comparative anatomy, and physiology in medical school of University of Missouri, 1872; professor of natural sciences and dean of the Agricultural and Mechanical College up to 1882; State inspector of mines of Montana, 1888-89.
Biogr. American Geologist, XXIV, July, 1899, pp. 1-6.
Taytor, RicHarpd Cow.tina. Geologist and mining engineer. Born in Hinton, Suffolk, England, January 18, 1789; died in Philadelphia, Pa., October 26, 1851. Came to America about 1830.
TESCHEMACHER, JAMES ENGLEBERT. Paleobotanist.
Born in Nottingham, England, June 11, 1790; died in Boston, Mass., 1853. Came to America February 7, 1832, and settled in Boston. A business man with scientific tendencies.
THompson, Zapock. Clergyman.
Born in Bridgewater, Vt., May 23, 1796; died in Burlington, Vt., January 19, 1856. First became noted as a compiler of almanacs and from his publication of a gazetteer of Vermont, which appeared in 1826. Assistant on State geological survey of Vermont, 1845-1847. State naturalist of Vermont, 1853-1856.
Biogr. Pop. Sei. Monthly, Dec., 1904, pp. 262-267.
Am. Journ. Sci., X XII, 1856, pp. 44-49.
G. H. Perkins. American Geologist, X XIX, No. 2, 1902, pp. 65-71. Trask, JoHN BOARDMAN. Surgeon.
Born in Roxbury, Mass., 1824; died in San Francisco, Cal., July 3, 1879. Educated at Yale. One of the charter members of the Academy of Natural Sciences of San Francisco. Geologist on boundary survey between Mexico, California, and Nevada; State geologist of California in early fifties. Assistant surgeon of volunteers in civil war. ~™
A. W. Vogdes, San Diego, Cal,

<<<Page: 807>>>

APPENDIX B!: BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES. tle
Troost, GERARD. Chemist and geologist.
Born in Bois-le-Duc, Holland, March 15, 1776; died in Nashville, Tenn., August 14, 1850. Came to the United States in 1810 and was one of the founders of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences in 1812; chosen its first president. In 1821, was appointed professor of mineralogy in Philadelphia Museum, and_professor of chemistry in the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. Professor of chemistry, geology, and mineralogy in University of Nashville, Tenn., 1828-1850. State geologist of Tennessee, 1831-1850.
Biogr. Appleton’s Cylo. of Amer. Biog. L. C. Glenn. Amer. Geol., XX XV, No. 2, 1905, pp. 72-94. Tuomey, Micuagny. Geologist.
Born in Cork, Ireland, September 29 (St. Michael’s Day), 1805; died in University, Ala., March 30, 1857. Came to America when about 17 years of age and became a teacher on the eastern shore of Virginia, but afterwards went to Troy, N. Y., and was graduated from Rensselaer Institute. State geologist of South Carolina in 1844. In 1847, was appointed professor of geology, mineralogy, and agricultural chemistry in the University of Alabama, and in 1848, was appointed State geologist without salary. In 1854, relinquished his professorship at the University in order that he might give all his attention to the survey.
Biogr. Amer. Geol., XX, Oct. 1897, pp. 205-212. Tyson, Partie THomas. Chemist.
Born in Baltimore, Md., June 23, 1799; died there December 16, 1877. State agri-
cultural chemist of Mary ied 1858.
VaN RENSSELAER, STEPHEN. Patron.
Born in New York City, November 7, 1765; died in Albany, N. Y., January 26, 1839. Established the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N. Y., in 1826. A general patron of the sciences and the pioneer of American geological surveys, Eaton’s early work on the geology of the Erie Canal region being carried on at his expense.
Biogr. Amer. Jour. Sci., XX XVI, 1889, pp. 156-164. VANUXEM, LARDNER. Chemist and stratigrapher.
Born in Philadelphia, Pa., July 23, 1792; died in east, Pas denies? 25, 1848. Professor of chemistry and Sena in Columbia College, 8. C., aon 1820 to 1826. In charge of third district New York survey from 1836-1842.
Biogr. Pop. Sci. Monthly, April, 1895, pp. 833-840. WacusmutTH, CHARLES. Paleontologist.
Born in Hanover, Germany, September 13, 1829; died in Burlington, Iowa, February 7, 1896. Came to America in 1852 and entered upon a mercantile career, but going West for his health took up scientific pursuits, in which he continued until his death. For several years assistant to Louis Agassiz in the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Biogr. Chas. R. Keyes in American Geologist, XVII, 1896, pp. 131-136. Watcorr, CHARLES DooLirtrLe.
Born in New York Mills, N. Y., March 31, 1850. Became assistant, New York State survey, 1876. Connected with U.S. Geological Survey, as geologist and paleontologist since 1879, and as Director since 1894. From January, 1897, to July, 1898, Acting Assistant Secretary of Smithsonian Institution. The Cambrian rocks and faunas of the United States have been his especial subjects of research.
Waiter, CHARLES ABIATHAR. Paleontologist and stratigrapher.
Born in North Dighton, Mass., January 26, 1826. Graduated from Iowa College. State geologist of Lowa, 1866-1870; professor Iowa State University, 1867-1873; professor Bowdoin College, Maine, 1873-1875; geologist and paleontologist to various United States Government surveys, 1874-1892. Connected with the U.S. National Museum since 1876.

<<<Page: 808>>>

Wuire, IsragL C. Geologist.
Born in Monongalia County, W. Va., November 1, 1848. Gradua‘ed from West Virginia University, 1872, A. M.; assistant geologist, Second Geological Survey, Pennsylvania, 1875-1884; on U.S. Geological Survey, 1884-1888; professor of geology, West Virginia University, 1877-1892. Specialist in coal, petroleum, and natural gas. State geologist of West Virginia since 1897.
WHITFIELD, Ropert Parr. Paleontologist.
Born in New Hartford, Oneida County, N. Y., May 27, 1828. Assistant in paleontology on New York State natural history survey, 1856-1876; U.S. Geological Survey, 1872; teacher and professor of geology, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N. Y., 1872-1878; since 1877, curator of geological department, American Museum Natural History.
Wuitney, JostAnH Dwiant. Geologist.
Born in Northampton, Mass., November 23, 1819; died in New London, N. H., August 19, 1896. Graduated at Yale, 1839. In 1840-1842, assistant to Jackson in geological survey of New Hampshire. In 1847-1851, on survey of mineral lands of Lake Superior district. In 1855, appointed State chemist of lowa and professor in State University. In 1858-59, associated with James Hall on geological survey of lowa. In 1858-1860, with Hall on geological survey of Wisconsin. In 1860-1874, State geologist of California. From 1865 to his death, the Sturgis Hooper professor of geology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
WHITTLESEY, CHARLES. Stratigraphical geologist and archzeologist.
Born in Southington, Conn., October 4, 1808; died in Cleveland, Ohio, October 18, 1886. Graduated from West Point in 1831; resigned from army at close of Black Hawk War, and from that time to 1837 practiced law. In 1837-1839, assistant to W. W. Mather in survey of Ohio, acting as topographer, geographer, and geologist. In 1844, geologist in exploration of copper region of Michigan. In 1847-1851, employed in United States survey of country around Lake Superior and upper Mississippi with reference to mines. In 1849, 1850, 1858, explored valley of Menominee River and north shore of Lake Superior. In 1848, connected with D. D. Owen’s survey of northern Wisconsin. In 1858-59, made geological surveys of Wisconsin, and in 1860, assisted James Hall in survey of same State. From 1867 to time of death, devoted to promotion of Western Reserve and Northern Ohio Historical Society, of which he was president; voluminous writer on geology and archzeology of Northwest.
Biogr. A. Winchell, American Geologist, IV, 1889, pp. 257-68. Wiaut, O. W. Physician.
State geologist of Wisconsin 1875, succeeding Lapham, and himself succeeded by
Chamberlain. Made but one report. ;
WINCHELL, ALEXANDER. Geologist and educator.
Born in Northeast, N. Y., December 31, 1824; died in Ann Arbor, Mich., February 19, 1891. Began life as a teacher. On October 5, 1850, took charge of an academy at Newbern, Greene County, Ala. In 1851, opened the Mesopotamia Female Seminary in Eutaw, Ala. In 1853, became president of the Masonic University at Selma, Ala. On November 16, 1853, was appointed professor of physics and civil engineering in the University of Michigan, entering upon his duties January 24, 1854. In 1855, became protessor of geology, zoology, and botany in the university. State geologist of Michigan, 1859-1861 and 1869-1871. Chancellor of Syracuse Uniyersity, 1873-74; professor of geology, Syracuse University, 1874-75. Connected with Vanderbilt University, in Nashville, Tenn., 1875-1878. Professor of geology and paleontology in Ann Arbor, Mich., 1879-1891. Professor Winchell was one of the best known of popular writers and lecturers in geology.
Bull. Geol. Soe. of America, III, 1891, pp. 3-18, 56-59. Amer. Geol., [X, 1892, pp. 71-148.
eee es eee ee a ee ee

<<<Page: 809>>>

WrxcHe.tt, Newron Horace. Geologist.
Born in Northeast, N. Y., December 17, 1839. Employed on geological survey of Michigan in 1860; graduated from University of Michigan, 1866; assistant State geololgist of Michigan, 1869-70; assistant geological survey Ohio, 1870-1872; editor American Geologist, Minneapolis; professor of mineralogy and geology, University of Michigan, and State geologist, 1872-1900.
Wine, Auaustus. Clergyman and teacher.
Born in Rochester, Vt., November 19, 1808; died in Whiting, Vt., January 19, 1876. Educated as a clergyman, but soon left the profession to become a teacher and investigator. Published practically nothing, but made very exhaustive studies of the limestone, slates, and quartzites of the Otter Creek Valley, with a view of settling their geological age. His results were communicated to Dana, who utilized them in his papers upon the Taconic question.
Biogr. American Geologist, X X VIII, 1901, pp. 1-8. Wisiizenus, Frepertck ApotpHus. Physician.
Born in Koenigsee, in Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt, Germany, May, 1810; died in St. Louis, Mo., September 22, 1889. Graduated from University of Zurich in 1834. Came to America in 1837, settling in St. Louis. His geological work chiefly result of expedition into Mexico, report of which appeared in Washington in 1848. WorrtHeN, Amos Henry. Paleontologist.
Born in Bradford, Orange County, Vt., October 31, 1813; died in Warsaw, IIL, May 6, 1888. Began life as a merchant at Warsaw, Ill. Assistant to J. G. Norwood, State geologist of Illinois, in 1853. Assistant to Prof. James Hall, State geologist of Towa, 1855-1857. State geologist of Illinois from 1858-1888, and curator of the State Natural History Museum from 1877. His work was mainly of a paleontological and stratigraphic nature, and related principally to the Carboniferous series.
Biogr. Chas. A. White, Mem. Nat. Acad. Sci., Nov. 1893, pp. 341-362. E. O. Ulrich, American Geologist, Aug. 1888, pp. 114-117. Wricut, Caries FE. Ceologist.
Born in Copenhagen, Lewis County, N. Y., October 7, 1843; died in Marquette, Mich., March 22, 1888. Began life as a civil engineer, afterwards turning his attention to geology and mining engineering. Commissioner of mineral statistics for Michigan, 1876-1883. State geologist of Michigan, 1884-1888. His work was limited mainly to the mining regions of northern Michigan.
Biogr. American Geologist, IT, 1888, pp. 307-812. WriGut, GEORGE FREDERICK. Clergyman and glacial geologist.
Born in Whitehall, N. Y., January 22, 1838. By profession a clergyman, and in 1871 pastor of a Congregational church in Andoyer, Mass. In 1881, professor of New Testament Exegesis in Oberlin Theological Seminary. Has written extensively on glacial subjects, his most pretentious work being his Ice Age in North America. Wortz, Henry. Chemist.
Born in eastern Pennsylvania, June 5, 1828. Graduated from Princeton in 1848. In 1851, became instructor im Yale scientific school. In 1853-1855, chemist of the geological survey of New Jersey.
Wyman, JEFFRIES. Anatomist and vertebrate paleontologist.
Born in Chelmsford, Mass., August 11, 1814; died in Bethlehem, N. H., September 4, 1874. Graduated from Harvard in 1833 and studied and practiced medicine. Professor of anatomy and physiology at Hampden Sidney College at Richmond, Va., 1845-1847. From 1847 to time of his death, Hersey professor of anatomy at Harvard College, Cambridge.
Biogr. A. S. Packard, Nat. Acad. Sci., Biog. Memoirs, IT, 1886.

<<<Page: 810>>>

eet Ey ¥ P| ois ce ie Slit Me ee Ue i is Teri's
“ ; b ¢ a gat eS : Fi Po 4 see = 7 “at " . + ‘ . e va, * z ee > ie a . _ . z 2
Meg ti
ws & 5 ,
Saha feet ane Da aet ce aes ahaa:
vib ess ‘ £86 > one
’ Piet ae ! siete = : ee ; <
Meas FP nie Seat nese. i be mee KS mee
= naa tA. . cae se ae .

<<<Page: 811>>>

Page. Acadian geology, J. W. Dawson......-..... 446 Mhirdiedition' ss. «250. -573
Adams, C. B., assistant geologist, survey of
Vermonita-cn-se sss sooekace 469 Elements of Geology.....-...392 Sketehtofiosae-=n teas ee ee 392, 689 VICWSONRACOMIC sae cecel* or 665 work in Vermont............ 391 AHolian limestone, name proposed ........472 Agassiz, Louis, Etudes sur les Glaciers ....364 Physical characters of Lake SUPCRIOLAN. Ses secon ee 415 SketCh Olesen aeeee ae 417, 689 views on glacial drift....... 416 subsidence and deposition ...... 508 Aiken, E. A., assistant, geological survey of Win Bers Hes con Hsueose cece seat neeanes 341 Aiken, William, ideas on mountain uplift. 321 Akerly, Samuel, geology of the Hudson RAV ere eee cee ee nace 249 on geology of Dutchess COUNUYAIN ayes 223 origin of alluvion.... 223 SKEICMO es tsetse cee 689 Alabama, survey under E. A. Smith........ 565 Michael Tuomey.. 408 Aldrich, Truman H., sketch of............. 689 Alexander, Caleb, on supposed volcanoes TMCOMMECH C Ute aemeen saseee/aee se cara: 209 Alexander, J. H., work in Maryland....... 321 Alger, Francis, geology of Nova Scotia..... 288 Sketebvol so--ee esses eoee ee 689 Allegheny Mountains, structure of......... 513 Allen, G. N., botanist Hayden survey...... 595 American continent, geological history OSE scaee sce oe cane aces 609-614 Geological Society, formed..... 239 officers of .. 239 Geology, Ebenezer Emmons.... 458
Journal of Science, foundingof 215, 228
Mineralogical Journal, founding
Ami, H. H., assistant on geological survey OMCaNn ad aire Soo se ee meee eee sate ae oe Analytical chemistry, early condition of... Anchisaurus colurus, finding of ....... Bee Andrews, Ebenezer B., assistant on geological survey of Ohio
sketchtoieescsss secs
Page
Antisell, Thomas, sketch of .............. 454, 690 work on Pacific Railroad
SUEVCYSi2 505-2 osce cee 453
Appalachian chain, physical structure of.. 370 structure, views of Rogers
PLOLRersiOUl ss meee eEeeaee 493 Appendix A.—Development of the geolog-
Tea Keoliumimny assesses eee sees 677 B.—Biographical sketches of ge-
OlOPAStS iaatacwe eee cee eee oaee 687
PA QIeO-STeOUS ACLLOM e+ ssscee cscs neem sees 318 Arkansas, geology, geography, ete., by
Hive sChooleraitmesssceeece: 240
opposition to geological survey. 483 work of D, D. OWenand Richard
OWeni oS scieetne ce Soca ceeee 482
Artesian wells in arid lands.............-.. 247 Ashburner, Charles A., assistant, geological survey of Penn-
Sylvania .22--2.-582
sketch oleeaeshose 690
Ashburner, William, assistant, geological SUTVEVLOMC MIO A eee ee eee aoe 515
Atwater,Caleb,onmammoth bonesin Ohio. 249
Auriferous gravels, J. D. Whitney.......... 578 Bad Lands, fossils, first systematic account
OL ane on ae te Nie Ek ese 413 second expedition of F. V. Hay-
« Genre a eae ae cisc ee 591
work of Meek and Haydenin.. 585
Bakewell’s geology, first Americanedition. 292 second American edi-
GOW SS See esses oes 316
| Bald Mountain, section afterC.D.Walcott. 674 Ball, John, views on geology of Rocky
Mountainss sas esas set Sten acne awee see 319 Bannister, H. M., assistant, geological sur-
vey of Illinois......... 496
Hayden survey.......... 597
Barnes, Daniel H., sketch of ..............690
suggestions of faulting. 264
Barrande, views on Taconic...-......-..... 667 Barris eWillishhe sketehiOfsss>-ssceeen.ccee 690 | Base level of erosion, term first used....... 567 Basin Range, named by G. K. Gilbert...... 616 structureiofseee-e seer cree 617 Batty, J. H., naturalist, Hayden survey.... 599 Beale, John, assistant to OWen..........-..413 Beaman, John H., meteorologist, Hayden SUMMONS Grete zerssericteine lets atte ae iatete erat tele 593 Bechler, G. R., topographer, Hayden surWA siagaodUgHoApa occas esoCooeceaeneeccee 596, 598

<<<Page: 812>>>

Page Beck, Lewis Caleb, sketch of.............-690 Beckwith, John, views on weathering of trap TOCK -saeeckieweenae ste ce cote tne cee 255 Beecher, C. E., assistant, geological survey otPennsylvaniiaecsse: cease sees sees 582 Bélknap, Jeremy, paper by ......-........209 Bell, Robert, assistant, geological survey of Canad ast seen ceeesoe ene nes eae 517, 549 Benton, E. R., views on Richmond bowlder GAIN. Toe eae ees ene se ease eae 405 Benton, Thomas H., views on supposed human foOotprinitsin stone ses ee aoe eee 264 BigvBone dicks jes cea ee ee aos ce oon aa ceeles 213 Bigsby, Jonni Je, sketeh!Ones.s-cassscece< ss 690 work in Canada ........... 265
Billings, Elkanah, assistant, geological survey of Canada .. 499,517, 549
Sketchiotzsescs se oes 690 views on Taconic. .666, 667, 668 Binney, Amos; sketchiobiics-s1ereaeseeee oe: 690 views on the loess.......... 398 Black hills;seoloryoOfey-s.-eeeeheaseeee eee 578 Warren’s expedition to........ 587
work of W. P. Jenny and Henry INewiOnlsoss shen 56S N. H. Winchell ........ 567
Blake, William P., on physical geology and geography of Califor-
MUG Sodas ee ose 1437 sketohtof ss 5s 55sec. 691 views on age of goldbearing strata ........ 516 work on Pacific Railroad surveys.......449, 452 Bonneville, Lake, described by G. K. GilORGS. cider rhe ees a eee a san eae 617
Bonney, T. G., views on Eozoonal structure 644 Booth, James C., assistant, geological sur-
vey of Pennsylvania... 490 geological survey of DelDWAaATC 5 aceon te Ace 348 sketehvoferscacccoeocenoes 691 Boston, geology of, by J. W: Webster ...... 283 Boyd, George W., assistant, geological surVey Of Virginia sees. Saeco aaee sees 341 Boye, M. H., assistant, geological survey of Pentisyl vaneless ance oases eens 490
Bradley, Frank H., assistant, geological survey of Indiana. 548 geologist on Hayden
SUTVCY)s.sncceseeere 596 sketehiol-epesenn eee 691 Bramby;4R.\S., Sketch s-css.e 2 eeeee eens 691 Branner, John C., assistant, geological survey of Pennsylvania.. 582 reference to Owen’s sur~ vey of Arkansas....... 483 sketehiofss2 eee 691 Brazil, work of C. F. Hartt and Orestes St. Johtiesti esos tonosc ce eee eee eee 529
Brewer, William H., assistant on geological survey ot Cali-
TOTHI ae eee eee 515, 516 sketehtot ss secon sees 691
Briggs, Caleb, assistant, geological survey OL ViIrpiniae s.=2ecccece eee 341
Page. Briggs; Caleb; sketehiof =. 2-2--cesscsceee ne 691 WOT IneOhiOns2 ee seeeeeee 332
Broadhead, Garland C., assistant, geolog-
ical survey of
in ois Sseeeeee 496 assistant State ge= ologist of MisSOUT a2: eee 488 geologist on survey of Missouri. 555 Sketch Of-=n-—-eeee 691 Brooks; 0..B.sketehy0Ls-=cass-ceeee eae 537, 691 State geologist of Michigan... 536 Brown, A. E., topographer, Hayden survey. 596 Brown, Ryland T., State geologist ofIndiana 433 Brown, Samuel, description of caye on Crooked! Creek. 14 20 Sas2eeeeue soe eee 224 Bruce, Archibald, American .Mineralogical Journ alesse ae 223 sketch ole 4 sao eee 692 Buckley, Samuel B., sketch of .............692 workin Texass.cceseee 509 Burbank on Eozoonal structure .........-“=~ 1643 Burck, Adolf, topographer, Hayden suryey. 596 Burlington limestone, subdivisions of ...... 534 Calciferous slate, name first used..........270 California, coal, bya Be Draskeose seeeeeeee 437 physical geology and geography Ofncase sel knee eee ena 437 survey under J.D. Whitmey..... 515 Trask siwolkeinieeessoso es 435 PY SOUS WOLKE see eee eee 427 Canada, survey under William E. Logan. 384,517 A.R.C. Selwyn... .-. 549 Carll, J. F., assistant, geological survey of
Penns yillvania),<* > s-0sOs an eon 582 Carpenter, W. B., views on Eozoon cana-
CONSE: loins = Pata cis cee eee eee eee 638 Carr, Ezra S., survey of Wisconsin........-472 Carrington, E. C., zoologist, Hayden sur-
V CY jue ot Sustecicreere telnet Sree eee nee oes 592 Carter, H.J., views on Eozoon canadense.... 642 Cass; L@Wisitec. 2 23 a8e es eee ee seca aeeeee 242 Caswell, J. H., petographic work in Black
Hills $523.2 Acconci ineke See Se See eee 569 Catbush, James, on Blue Earth of NewJersey 223 Catlin, George, views on geology .....-....557 Catskill Mountains, geology of..........-..236 Caves, formation of, views of A. Eaton..... 252 Chamberlin, Thomas C., assistant, survey of
Wisconsin ...... 570 sketch of a-asesce 692 survey of WisconSIM) ssh fee aoe 571 Chance, Henry M., assistant, survey of Pennsylvania ..... 582 sketch Ob 2. .cceseeeee 692 Charleston, S..C., geology of........-.....-409 Chauvenet, Regis, assistant, survey of MisSOUL 5-2 eee 595 views on origin of iron QlGte i etts eeeces eee 556 Cheever, B. H., assistant, Hayden suryey.. 592 China, work of Raphael Pumpelly in -..--522 Chippewa land district, work of Owenin.. 411
——s eee ee eee ee

<<<Page: 813>>>

Page.
Chittenden, George M., assistant, Hayden SULVEYS. o 522-5 Christy, David, geological observations. .-. Church, John: A., geologist, Wheeler survey sketch of
Gincinnati uplift, age Of20--.-2--+-2-0-6-2-
views of Edward Orton..
Claypole, Edward W., assistant, survey of
Pennsylvania. ..-.
sketencoftse seae
Cleaveland, Parker, fossils found by .....-.-. sketch Olives: aece «52 226,
Treatise on Mineralogy.
views on inclination of strata
Clifimeston eo. st see os eee ae aes oaeee Climatic changes, by J.D. Whitney ........ Coal in California, views of Trask........-formation of, by H. D. Rogers.......-Iron pipe toumMMlIn Se. eke ese a= Manual of, by Peter Lesley -.......... of North Carolina, age of.............. origin of, J. D. Dana
We WWD EWSOM 2s 225s 55 aks 447, Abraham Gesner............ Cou J ACKSOMse scare tae eb ROP ers. seep Saar J. Van Rensselaer... <..--<. period, atmosphere of..... Bone a eee supposed occurrence near Phippsburg, IMG sas hiaieeceyonien et kwinint ee actos cite we Coast Range, age of, views of J. D.Whitney. Collett, John, assistant, survey of Indiana Sketch Of sees saokoncs oe ceee Colorado, Ives’ expedition up......-.....-. ODPM OL CANVOMOL sen see ne ee oe Powell’s exploration of Canyon of WOrkof HS Vi. Hayden’. .-2../22.3Concretionary structure, origin of......-..:
Conecretions, origin of, Edw. Hitchcock
Conkling, Alfred R., geologist, Wheeler SUEVCYit eee oe sketehiots-.eee Connecticut, geological and mineralogical BEILVEYaOl ee aesce en dnmet en keen ae akee Connecticut River, geology of, E. HitchCOC kaa e reteset sree penton se cide Jucewoe ts Connecticut sandstone, age of.............. Connecticut valley, fossil footprints........ intrusive trap of ....... Conrad, Timothy A., distribution of the EoCEN Cw ee eno AS Ideas OMIAniftics see Medial ‘Tertiary of North America .....
Sketchioleecce cee. 395, Tertiary of North ANNETIGH = Aes sae ewe r views on evolution ... expansion of rocks by erystallizaLON ee work in Florida ......
599 397
692 |
542 546
582 692 222 692
353 | 579 |
437 372 249 461 430
576 338
360 | 492 |
279 390
616 693
693 |
Page. Conrad, Timothy A., work on the Tertiary FOSSILS eo ehnic ee Soman oa ea wee seni Soiseas 354 Consequent valleys, term first used ...-...566 Jontraction of earth, results of............399 | Cook, George H., assistant to William Kortehellice ces cs 460 sketchrotic.oc. ice 524, 693 survey of New Jersey. 5238 views on subsidence ObGoasts-29-+2so4-524 Cooper, Thomas, sketch of........-....--. 261, 693 views concerning volcaMOOS Hehe aires dors eres 261 Cope, Edward D., paleontologist, Wheeler SUUVC Wier oer o--ereene 616 Sketehi Ole. .22 scenes 693 viewson lignitic group. 650 work on geological survey of Indiana.......-. 348 work with Hayden surVOY S ccscecsceates tae 594, 598 poppy and silver ores of Lake Superior, OXI PMOL yee hs abies Saint 418 deposits of Lake Superior, value of, W. H. Keating: sz: 22. --276 views of H. R.Schooleraft. 248 (native), finding of large boulder... 244 origin of, viewsof T.C. Chamberlin. 572 Raphael Pumpelliyesato-s.cke3 538 Coral growth, views of Couthouy and Dana. 378 Joseph Le Conte.... 464 islands, views of jis 1d), yi ete eee 423 Cordilleras, Clarence King’s use of word... 610 | Cornelius, Elias, on origin of Natural BIG BOM esos sss cece 224 sketchiod 24.282. aaa 693 Cotting, John R., geological workin Georgia 335 sketehioleeecasc2 sens sis. 693 views as to value of fossils 336 Coulter, John M,, assistant, survey of Inditt ead Coq uae Seeanoe 548 botanist, Haydensurvey. 596 Couthouy, Joseph P., sketch of.....-.....--693 viewsoncoral growth. 373 Cox, Edward T., assistant to D. D. OWen... 448 assistant, survey of IlliMOUS eas a aren ars tyes 496 sketch Ole, <-> accseins2s-2 694 views on glacial period .. 548 work in Indiana -........ 548 Cozzens, Issachar, geology of New York Is1) os Ss SRG SSne eeee 385 sketchvotts 2a sco. seems 694 Crandall, A. R., assistant, survey of Ken-
fp @0EY OH CO) OUL0 eee pale a 518, 535
in Bavarian limestone ............. 640 views of T: G. Bonney ..-.----...-: 644 | Burbank and Perry....... 644 | W. B. Carpenter .... 638, 640, 642 Ets ORL eT ean een ee 642 DWE DAWSON ces. oe 636, 643 | Ue GLesory.-.262 coe: = 645 | CA. Gum Dele eees = oe 640 PS Stertye Hunbesmeee 639 H. J. Johnston-Layis ..... 645 | Wallisim: Kinet. 2-2 sss. 639, 641 WirrbOP allie an nGncecc nce 635 CarnleMoe pilus -eeee se 642 THe ROWNeY: tees. 639, 641 Mass Schultze sss-5-20-e oe 642 Ferdinand von HochstetWEI en ia tee eee eat 640 Era of national surveys ...............-..-551 Era of State surveys, fifth decade........... 551 firshaecade =. =.--..5. 295 fourth decade........ 503 second decade ....... 363 : third decade......... 429 Erie Canal, geology of contiguous region .. 269 IB TOSIOn an deuplitieessseee aes ececee eee eee 513 by sandblast@-ce o:sjessccust tees 452 of Black: Hills#= 2. ones e ee 569 GrandiCnnyourse seseee ae eee = 477 | Mi Pp HeP IA teaUs ese. se aces eee ee 621 WintatRane er so. eeoe ae hee 620 VWiasatehwRanpernssssrecce=cee 612 See also GLACIATION and DRIFT. WIEWSOlUs DANA: ae peee eens 4 435
AmMOS*HatONs..2=2.-<2 25: G. W. Featherstonhaugh .
NAT Mus 1904——<46
~) or bs bo =I b me Ohl
Page. Erosion, views-of James Hall............... 384 Hoo ELavG ens..." caceee 2 297 Gee HaMes ts Ss ae eS ae 358
Edward Hitchcock. 311, 367, 435
OSb Hubbard] = 5-5--05. 435 Pee sMeslewy vase noose ae 567 Je Wee bOwellia. ssc e-secce 566 HDS ROLCIS 5282 326, 328 Evans, John, assistant to OWen ............ 413 SKeLCMOln mee wane anna nee ees 696 work in the Bad Lands, 1853. 585 Washington and OrePONG sone cere asec 455 Evolution, Conrad’s views on.............. 355 Fairholme, views on gorge of Niagara..... 327 Fall line of rivers, early recognition of. ..208,214 | Faulting, early suggestions regarding ..... 264 | Featherstonhaugh, G. W., his work, how regarded ........ 324 Monthly Ameriean Journal of Geology..-.-.-301 sketch of...... 302, 696 survey of the elevated country. 323 : survey of 1885... 325 Field, Roswell, views on fossil footprints.. 632 Finch, John, memoir on Connecticut sandBLONES Sos Fe sence see ae: 266 subdivisions of the Tertiary.. 266 Florida, work of Conrad in................. 368 Footprints in limestone ...-.........----.-262 Ford, A. L., mineralogist, Hayden surveys. 593 Ford, W. S., views on the Taconie ......... 674 Formation of the earth, views of A. Eaton. 237 Fortieth parallel survey under Clarence RST eater EIS eee a Lees 607 Fossils, first attempt at correlation by 1392) Nev |(0) Uae ae ees ae ee oe ee 288 Fossil footprints of Connecticut Valley .... 625 views of Mantell, Richard Owen, Benj. Silliman, Murchison, and Lyell .. 627 Fossils, in coal measures of Nova Scotia.... 446 Connecticut River sandstone .... 268 MmOGde Oilman py sees ee nae. eee 253 value of, for purpose of correlation. 287 WiewWs Ol Ja Re COtmIng seca ase seeeee 336 IATHOS WAGON a2 cia selene 300 Abraham Gesner........... 337 Jacob Green. 22 s-sencee see 305 Edward Hitchcock ........ 313 Ds) OW EMI cer msce enero 350 Richardi@wen=-ses sacssee 507 Dep SatlOrd)s cos cceckeccsee 457 Gerard Proost--f5-5.2-66“04 Lardner Vanuxem......... 291 Koster; Johny W-, sketebiof --2..<22 22 ..---2 697 work in Michigan...... 415, 417 Ohiozt vosseeece. 332 Foster and Whitney on geology of Lake Superior region .... 419 origin of drift ..... 419 Fourche Cove region, work of W. Byrd BOWIE seer eee Sate eee ee eeeee 373 Franklin, Benjamin, theories of earth’s OVIGIN We smcselsmice ence noes cae aoe eae eewice 213

<<<Page: 814>>>

Page. Frazer, John F., assistant, survey of PennSylvaMiaw costes ee eee nace 490 Frazer, Persifor, asssistant, survey of Pennsy vase seeene soe 582 metallurgist, Hayden sur. VG Vie cs teas eencnts 592 sketchiot: 2.2.2 ccesscemco ae 697 Freeman, H. C., assistant, Illinois survey.. 496 Frogs, live, buried in rocks....--.........-245 Fuller, C. B., zoologist, survey of Maine... 511 Gabb, William M., assistant, survey of CalifOTNISE esas ewes e 515 sketchioi=s-pserc-s---se697 Gage, J. R., assistant, survey of Missouri... 555 Galena linvestonessasoc5 220 fee oo ste teerncine 496 Gannett, Henry, astronomer, Hayden surWEY cine eta ee sacle stata 596 topographer, Hayden surVOYoowiac acerca ec am ciceicince 598 (CGGR be banseaonaneadccatncoootecrasocGoce spec 253 Geikie, Archibald, quoted ..........-..--.287 Gems, origin of, by Schoolcraft .....-....-244 Genesis and geology, comparison by BenJamin’ Silliman tees eee canes sees 317-318 Genth Hwa. sketchiot. sconces eaceee a eee 697 Geological column, development of ..... 677,679 |
map, first American,by Maclure. 217 Society of Pennsylvania, organi-
zation Oilsees, oral) publications Ofie 325 321 survey, first at public expense.. 266 survey of Pennsylvania ......-.344 Text-book, by Amos Eaton ..... 295 Geology, first recognition of, by the General Governmeniz aa 7s eee eeee eee 323 of the Globe, by Hitchcock ....... 463 Key to, by Richard OWen 2s osaac seme 474 Georgia, geological work of John R. Cotting. 335 work of George Little..-........-552 Gesner, Abraham, sketch of.........--..339, 697 views on origin of drift. 338 iron ore. 337 the deluge....339
value of fossils for correlation purposes ..... 337 uplift of strata. 337 workin New Brunswick. 358
Nova Scotia....336 Gibbs, Col. George,oniron oresof Franconia, ~
INGER cecemneniss 223
supposed volcanoes . in Connecticut. ..-209 Gibbs, George, jr:, sketch Of.22 -2.----2=697 work in Washington.... 456
Gibbs, Wolcott, assistant to Jackson in Michieam!... 25. 22) ces chcwaeiscicieenccricnee 415
Gibson, John B., on trap rocks of Conewago BS ee eee 5. -eee 254 SketehioOfecsciseiynce sects 697
Page. — Gilbert, Grove K., assistant, survey of Ohio se eee 541 Basin Range named... 616 chief geologist, Wheeler survey.... 616 sketch of. -2-. +2 acon oe O95 work in Henry: MounaS [of we Sate temas 622
Gilmer, F. W., on origin of Natural Bridge. 224 Gilmore, Robert, catalogue of minerals of
Baltimore, Md...-... Sicmbinisete wasasce Sees 224
Glacial drift, views of Peter Dobson....-.-.-.273
MOTION: face aaas senor hse oe eee 581
Glaciation, two periods suggested .........463
views of J. W. Dawson ....-..-521
Je DE WintHe y= sees oan 580 — Glaciers, Agassiz’s studies of .-...........-364 and glaciation. See DRIFT.
Glenn, J. W., State geologist of Texas. ..... 509
Godon, S., mineralogical map of Maryland. 214
observations ..... 222
Gold-bearing rocks of California, age of.... 516 Goodale, George L., botanist on Maine sur-
VOY sececot cn a2 eemeciseineema a= St opie eee ee 511 Grand Canyon of Colorado, exploration of,
by JW. Powell =. 2S sSosep eect oe eae 566
Gray, Alonzo, elements of geology .....:... 392
Gray, Asa, with Hayden survey..........-602 Great Lakes and sources of the Mississippi,
expedition tOs....5osocmaniecisamesee eee 274
Green, H, A., assistant, Illinois survey-...--. 496
Green, Jacob, monograph of Trilobites..... 805
sketehof coos; soon cee ee 698
views as to value of fossils .. 305
Gregory, J.W., viewson Eozoonal structure. 645 Grinnell, George B., paleontologist, Ludlow
expedition 22.22... 568 sketchiOl.-s-peeeeeenes 698
Giimbel, C. W., finding of Eozoonal strucCUTES!iM) Bavaria; see se nose cere ee eee 640  ‘Giittard= referred. t0ltcess=sss seee eee 207 Guy, W. E., assistant, survey of Missouri... 555 Gypsum of Lowa, age Of. .2-.-.-..sssseeneee 5383 origin of, by J. W. Dawson........ 576 D. DAOwel=sceceesene 413
Hafner, Ludwig (see also Lewis Harper)... 440 Hager, Albert D., geologist, Vermont survey 469
sketGh rot 225 <si,s.2 reste ceeee 698 work in Missouri........594 Hague, Arnold, assistant, fortieth parallel SUEVGY. sere oo acta eee 608, 609 sketehots. cu ducesseee ones 698 Hague yd D. sketeh Of 25--5--heeeeese cess 698 Haldeman, Samuel §S., assistant, survey of Pennsylvania ... 490 sketchvop 22. ss--ee= 698
views on Taconic. 665
Hall, C. E., assistant; survey of PennsylVaid) ..; 22,048 S chee wees See eee 582 Hall, James (clergyman), sketch of.....-... 699
views on weath-
ering of trap TOCKS 5. fen cee 255
Hall, James, connection with survey of Canad ass: <eeeassaee eoceere 517

<<<Page: 815>>>

Hall, James, criticism of, by Meek......-on parallelism of Paleozoic
Gepositis:= sist 2as<. 522 419 westward thinning of sedimentary rocks ........ 465 paleontologist, New Jersey SULVCYiiecesses cacecee secs 460 reporton LakeSuperiorrocks 419 sketchem sce csesccs stisteece 381, 698 SUNVGy OMlOW alas. ccen nae 465 Wisconsin. e6 5. 472 views on drift and erosion... 380 NMG Ep heh SooeSeeonee 384 sedimentation and mountain buildinp ees ae eee 499, 502 Taconic -.... 663, 665, 671 work in connection with fortieth parallel surWGVinsctecacen sims 609 ING Win ODKes eer ea. 379 Ohio sees ecceene 383 Hall, S. R., assistant, Vermont survey....391 | Harlan: Richard, sketch Of:--..2.2:=2-<s2< 699 Harper dueywiss sSketGhwOle cms. sees. cscs sce. 699 work in Mississippi......... 440 Harrington, B.J.,assistant, surveyofCanada 549 | Harrington, M. W.,assistant, survey of MichNAT Cones ween ine eee 536 Hartt, Charles F., sketch of..............-.699 Workin Bravillscn eee 529 Hawaiian volcanoes, views of J.D. Dana... 423 Hawn, Frederick, assistant, survey of KanBAS ann Nee ese eh oe 527 | assistant to Swallow-.... 437 Permian controversy.... 485 Sketehiof ese c sso sees se 699 Haye RObert, SKetChOfaesc. co ccc ee one cee 699 ERY Cena OB aaa =e aceae seaisers aoa cee no 341 Hayden, F. V., appointed United States PECOLOPISt}. a mene sete ee ae 592 early views on lignitic Stratanwoss. 2 ese-k osce ee 647 on mountain uplift....._. 590 Triassic in Kansas and Nebraskan secs te 487 second expedition to the Badshandsreeeceenscse. 591 sketchione=csscece. foes: 604, 699 summary ofearly work... 589 surveys in Colorado and New Mex1COe en sae 592, 598 Idaho and Wyoming, It VijieeBEoee 602 Montana and the Yellowstone Park, 1871 ...... 595,596 Nebraska .... 592 Wyoming... 592593, 603
views on lignitic group. 653, 656
with Meek in Kansas..... 587 Raynolds’s expediWON ae cee e 589
Page. Hayden, F. V., with Warren in the Black Hills 587 Sioux country.. 586 work in Bad Lands, 1853-66 ......... 585 on the Upper Missouri River .... 586 Hayden, H. H., geological essays .......... 256 WICNVS OD OMiibie we ce tans. 256
SIRKCUCH Ole > oes ere eee 259, 699 Hayes, G. E., geology of western New
RYO Kes ee eer et coisas See SC os wae cle 357 Haymond, Rufus, assistant, survey of Indi-
OMA. = 522 eae oe So cas sao aeicie Selsse ne eslae 548 Headley, C. B., assistant, survey of Michi-
FE Oe hee Se a oe SIS eae ae eee ERR 536 Henry Mountains, work of G. K. Gilbert .. 622 Herring, Adolph, topographer, Hayden sur-
VEY ons es Jogos seis Beemer rotene meee 596 Higgins, James, work in Maryland .......425 Hildreth, Samuel P., sketch of...........-. 700
work in Ohio ...... 330, 332 Hilgard, Eugene W., assistant geologist of Mississippi ----.--. 441, 483 sketehOfeesea ss sceces 700 State geologist of MisSISSLP Plsewe setae ne 483 work in Louisiana... 635 at Petite Anse.. 561 views on drift...... 530, 561 Hind Henry ¥sketelr ofss-: -.--cee-2-e2ce 700 work in Winnipeg counUL Viera tae item ecissetclsicicics 499 Hitchcock, Charles H., chemist, survey of Vermont ssc..-469 sketchiopeen 700 State geologist of Maine): cccseece511 views on Taconic.. 674 Hitcheoeck, Edward, description of Richmond bowldertrain 393 drift phenomena of North America....-. 367 first geological paper. 233 geology of region contiguous to Connecticut River 268 the globe. 463 illustrations of surface geology....-..462
on fossil footprints. 625, 630 origin of dolomite 313 gneisses and granites.... 308-309
overturned folds. 314 trap tufa of Connecticut Valley. 389 value of fossils... 313 remarks on the geology of MassachuSCUUS San ae seem emacs 233 report on Marcy exPCGILLON scorers 434

<<<Page: 816>>>

Page. Hitchcock, Edward,.sketch of-.........--.. 709 survey of Massachusetts.... 307
Vermont. 469 |
views ou distorted peb-
. bless 2 -s-5315 Obuti hah ae 274, 471 erosive power
ofrivers.... 310 inversion of t
Strata <..--.471 living animals
in rocks.... 472 m eta morph-
ism and
elongation
of quartz
pebbles .. 470,510 origin of con-
cretions.... 315
the Taconic. 663, 668
Hobbs, B. C., assistant, survey of Indiana... 548 Hodge, James T., assistant, survey of Penn-
Sylivamie soe ze cen ee 490
collections by....-....-.. 855. |
sketehiOt~cs -seccesscone 700 Holl, H. D., assistant, survey of Pennsyl-
VATS, cet see ee eee ee ae ee Cee 490 Holmes, Ezekiel, natural-history survey of
Main @y.§Saece yo er arce ace tee eae ees eeeee 511
Holmes, F. 8., geology of Charleston,S.C.. 409 Holmes, William H., artist, Hayden survey. 596 geologist, Hayden sur-
VOY fica soe nwt ance 603 sketchiot-: 32. o-s-5oere 700 Hooker, Sir Joseph, with Hayden survey.. 602 Hopkins, F. V., geology of Louisiana ....-. 558 Hot springs, origin of, by D. D. Owen....-. 482 Houghton, C., mineralogist, on Maine surVOY a's aii iret eee ctey eee ae steko polit Houghton, Douglass, sketch of..........361, 701 work in Michigan -.. 360 Howell, Edwin E., assistant, Wheeler surWEN <c enanaabecoogads 616 Sketch Ofsmass=eeeenoee 701 work on Wheeler surWEY teistriaseiecssis sees 618 Howley, James P., work in Newfoundland. 520 Hubbard, Bela, assistant to Houghton..... 360 sketchiotsnececcacomesrass 701 Hubbard, Oliver P., on rock decay........435 sketch Of. s--sessemeos701 Hudson RiversgeoloryiOlscsssssse eae 249 OLiginkoMbedwess-e cesses ae 299 Palisades, origin of......... 377
Human footprints (supposed) in sandstone, views of Schooleraft, D. D. Owen, Mantell Famdvounerssseenee eee see eae ete eee 262-264 Humphreys, A. A., fortieth parallel survey. 607 Hunt, T. Sterry, assistant, survey of Can-
ada eee 517,549 survey of Pennsylvania....582 Vermont survey 391 sketch Oficscccase eeracens 701 views on Kozoon canaCENISE weiner 636
¢ Page | Hunt, T. Sterry, views on Taconic......... 666 Hutton, James, reference to............ Ebro Seale! Hyatt, Alpheus, sketch of-.22.2.-2:..----.701
Ichnology of New England, by Edward Mitch Cocks 2.452. Soviet cee See eee 6381 Illinois, geology of, by C. U. Shepard ...... 340 survey of; by D. DsOwens.-.-..--: 351 work of Amos H. Worthen ........ 496 JAG Norwood ---: ss Ste cpentoe A. H. Worthen, State geologist.of. 433 Illustrations of surface geology ...........462 Inclination of rocks indicative of age.....: 291 views of Jackson...... 359 Strata, CallseOfea-2 ses. 2 a2 277
views of Hitchcock,
Cleaveland, and. Maclures: sss 389
Index to Geology of North America, second CdItONC Ree hake see ee eee 251
the Geology of the Northern States, 22,2. c54Stee 234
Indiana geological survey by D. D. Owen. 349, 507 under E.T. Cox. 548
second geological survey.......--433 Infusory stratum, discovery of .........-..342 Inland seas, views of Schoolcraft ........ Le eAaD Inversion of strata, views of Edward Hitch-
cock si2asses 471
H. D.and W. B. Rogers .... 342,370
Inverted dip 322 sch dsgon Pee eee ee eee eee 315 views of William Aiken....... 321 Iowa, geological surveys of .........351, 465, 532 Iron ore at Cumberland, Rhode Island, eruptive nature of ............. 348 of Lake Superior, origin of ...... 404 Mussouritorisiniofeeesseee 556 origin of, by C. T. Jackson-.....289 Irving, Roland D., assistant, survey of WisCONSIN2u-2 eeseee 570, 571 sketeéhiol ese soceesenes 701 work in Wisconsin ..... 573 TSOStACY«sode.cosse cee acre een ee eee 500 Itacolumite, views of O. M. Lieber......... 445 Ives’ expedition up the Colorado.........-477 Jackass Creek, inverted beds of........-..599 Jackson, Charles T., survey of Maine ...--. 346 New Hampshire: sa.25 858 Nova Scotia 288 Rhode _ Islander sss 347 on inclination of stratified: rocks:--.---359 origin of coal ..... 360 reservation of mineral lands ......415
source of trap and origin ofironores 289
sketch of-eacencee ese 290, 702 views on drift .. 347,348, 359 voleanoes... 359 work in Michigan .... 414 Jackson, R. M., assistant, survey of PennSyl Vailas. -iecese Fe AAR noe GaONEIETOaer 490

<<<Page: 817>>>

Page.
Jackson, W. H., photographer on Hayden
SUMVGVG seer ye ore eee eee Mt heen 2 593, James, Edwin, geologist, Long’s expedition SketGhrotee eta cee esie ce JAMES BU ues SKELCMW Olen serine seas Jaycox, T. W., topographer, Hayden suri OM pec SS hts tae ae ators See ee Jefferson, Thomas, comments of ........--paleontologist......----
Jenny, W. P., work in Black Hills ....... 568, TONNSON We ie eSKetChy Ob sec. =. cine ge eecee Johnston-Lavis, H. J., views on Eozoonal SURUGHUNG ater n w os eee Steins 3 2 aaiciciete POMS HOLISINKOIe. see ieee eas sk cece see aa Jones, David, on supposed yoleanoes, in ConnecucGuiees. + ress ee eee acer ccs Jordan, D.S., assistant, survey of Indiana . Journal of Geology, Monthly American. ... ‘Judd, J. W., account of William Smith's OAS ee ee oc ates paaneten Seo eines os he Julian, A. A., work on survey of Michigan. Kansas Permian controversy .........-.-.survey under G. C. Swallow....... work of Meek and Hayden........ BE Mad gee sSeemeterstacics Keating, William H., expedition to Great akese sosecccace = on origin of drift .-. Luke Superior copper.s-s-eSKEUCHOleseo ey. Keewatin, name proposed.............-..-Kentucky, geological history of, -by RafiMESA WEC eens sats Saree ceisee ee geological survey under D. D. (ON AO Cet es Hee er eae survey under N.S. Shaler...... Kerr, Washington C., on effects of earth's ROCALLONESsseer ne
Sketehiol-aceose" 564, work in North Caro-
Mina Sie 530, King, Alton, finding of fossil footprints... King, Clarence, assistant, survey of CaliforLNG ee qe eee ens Heese first Director United States Geological Survey....... fortieth parallel survey -..
SkKeUGhiOieese os saceon. 614,
views on lignitic group . 651. King, Franklin H., assistant, survey of Wis-
596 |
702 |
596 216 213 569
702 |
645 284
209 548 301
562 630 515 624 607 702 656
CONEIMic sec et aasemean: 571 SkELCH Ole ses cece one 703
King, William, views on the supposed fossil EHOZOO 1 COR AOCISCR nee se see elton ee 639, 641 Reintland Vp boracss aces eas see se sole we ca ee oe 331 Kaitchell, William, sketch of.:......-......703 f work in New Jersey .... 460 Klippart, J, H., assistant, survey of Ohio... 541 Knowlton, F. H_, views on lignitie group.. 658 Laccolites, G. K. Gilbert’s description of... 622 aceolithie mountaims <se-cee--see-ee acces. 601 Ladd, S. B., topographer, Hayden suryey.. 598 Lake Superior copper and silver ores ...... 418
725 Page
Lake Superior, geology of.............---414-420 ores, origin of, by J. D. Whit-
| ES. Se eee mea 440 physical character§ of, by
THOWISVAGHSSIZees aa aee meee 415
slatesorigin/ Ole ess ee eee 419
Lapham, Increase A., sketch of ............ 703
survey of Wisconsin. 570
Laramieiquestion these: 4) ses 2. sense: =e 647
views of E. D. Cope..... 650
F.V. Hayden. 653, 656 Clarence King. 656 F.H. Knowlton 658 Leo _Lesquereux.... 648, 650, 653 A.R.Marvine.. 651 F.B. Meek..... 648 J.S.Newberry. 651 A Ca Peales =.=: 654. T.W.Stanton... 658
J.J.Stevenson 619,652
TG Hes VV eae 657
CeAS White 2-2. 655
Latrobe, B. H., sandstone of Aquia Creek. 214
| Laurentian of Canada, fossils in.........--. 635
| SGLIGs= Olle Olsse as see ee 518-521
| subdivision of, by Logan....... 476 | Lawrence, Byrem, geology of the Western
SUSIE OS resect eee a ae cet eee mee a cen a 386
| Lea, Isaac, contributions to geology ....... 320 Sketehroi nse seeese ce eee 703 views on earthquakes .......--280 Lead and zine ores of Iowa, Whitney's WI GWS OMe s tacnciacrnarne see ne anne 468 deposits in Mississippi Valley ......-.. 439 | in Wilinois by» Wihitney-.--cscs... 2496 | mines of Missouri ..... Sea RARER eS ted 240 | OLESOLICIMNOL os Heo ser ae ce~ moe 276, 482, 572 Le Conte, John L., Pacific railroad survey . 531 Sketch Olan esseea ease 703 Le Conte, Joseph, on coral growth .......-. 465 mountain making... 502,558 the:Taconic).....-.--. 675 sketchroimesceee oe ee 561, 703 Lehman, A. E., assistant on geological survey of Pennsylvania ....-..saneonscoaace 582 Leidy, Joseph, assistant on survey of New VOTSGY se tews cici-ie ceca eee 460 description of Bad Lands fosSSs se oases Sere cee 413 SKEtCHIOE22: oe sont se cae 703 work on Hayden survey.... 598 Leonard, Jackson, assistant survey of Mis-
SOUT Sac fc ceca oe eine ee ae stems since cio cee 59d Lesley, Joseph, assistant to D. D.Owen...-. 443 Lesley, J. Peter, assistant, survey of Penn-
Sylvania 2/2222 aseence 490 JetheniOf= 2. soccer eeece ees 582 Manual of Coal-...-.<..-.461 | on mountain structure and uplift; on erosion.... 5138 origin of 1ron ores; on denudation .......-.-. 567 MON Oise ap socactenctce 584, 703 State geologist of Pennsylvania ...... aqgae AOeeoaS 582

<<<Page: 818>>>

Page. Lesley, J. Peter, tribute to F. V. Hayden ..606 Lesley-Rogers controversy --.-.-------------461 Lesquereux, Leo, assistant to D. D. Owen -443
assistant, Illinoissuryey. 496 survey of Pennsylvania....582
on lignitie group -..-.--648— 650, 653, 654 origin of lignite beds.... 599 SKELCMOL soars enna 498, 704 work on geological survey of Indiana...-...--548 Levette, G. M., assistant, survey of Indiana. 548 Te wise Same |e ayaa ss eae ae elie == = 341 Lewis, Zachariah, views on weathering of GRAND LOC Kersey ae eee eee ai 255 Lieber, Oscar M., assistant to Michael Tuomey-...--------409 BKEtCHiOl eee eee ee 704 work in South CaroLUNA Se ee acts eee emer 444 Lignite beds, origin of, views of Leo LesU (WIS CH0b-e a sccoobe ceo de no ae eonooeesssocs0 Hc 599 Lignitic. See LARAMIE........--.---------647 group, views of Leo Lesquereux. 648-650 strata, early views of F. V. HayOle) MAA SaoasoekeobuocHesos 647 views of various authoriCIGSie. os ooen eee ee 647-658 Limestone (white) of New Jersey, age of... 524 Lincoln, Benjamin, paper by ..-----------209 Little, George, appointed State geologist of Georeide sos -3s2 oe eee 336 sketehiOhjses-ect = seenecte = 704 work in Georgia ....--..---552 Litton, abram, assistant to Owen ......---413 assistant, survey of Missouri 437 sietehiol = 26.225. sen seis 704 Litton, C. M., assistant, survey of Missouri. 555 Living animals in rocks.........-.----.-245, 472 Loeke, John, assistant to Jackson in MichiPAI Aa sase sees 415 Swallow ........438 sketch one 22 see snct tote tenes 704 views on Christy’s work ....397 dorelemalOlnu)s555550scosecogs 332 Loess, views of Binney -2-22-32. 2--cree 398 Loew, Osear, assistant, Wheeler survey .... 616 Logan, C. A., assistant, survey of Kamsas.. 527 Logan, William E., geological survey of Canad ares ewaecee 384 Geology of Canada... 517 on Laurentian fossils. 635 Oniiteose. tosses ae 518 originof Laurentian SERIES eee e eee 518-519 sketchiofees as sssce 519, 704 subdivision of the Laurentian ..--....476 Long, Stephen H., expedition. Map of TOU easeeeeseeeee 246 | expedition to Great akes:iscbe<s-cesec274 expedition to Rocky Mountains.......... 245
Long-Keating expedition. Map........... 275
2 Page Louisiana, geology of, by F. V. Hopkins... 558 E. W. Hilgard’s work in .....--535 Practical geology of, by R. ThomDIGS ae Ree one SEM SEOOs Se SOuare 504 Ludlow, W., expedition to the Black Hills. 567 Lyell, views on Richmond bowlder train .. 405 Lyon, §. T., assistant to D. D. Owen......-443 McCauslin, Robert, mineral analyses. ---.--210 McClellan, George B., work with Marcy expedition<2.---=-4=4 434 McCreath, A. S., assistant, survey of PennSyilvamila<c-cs-sssseeemee 582
McGillyeuddy, V. T., topographer, Black
Hills expedition . 568 McIntire, E.S., assistant, survey of Indiana. 548 McKinley, A., assistant, survey of Pennsyl-
Vana. /2d. 2. stk ete soesee 490 McKinney, J. C., assistant, survey of PennSylvanian: se-csos eee 490 Macfarlane, James, sketch of .......-ett 704 Maclurean Dra. thes. 225.54 oe seers 207 Maclure, William, geological classification of rocks! \-.2-sseeessae 220 geology of the West InGiajslamds: ----2---2s= 306 letter to Parker Cleaveland’ ses. S5-2=e5ee0n2 227
Obseryations on the Geology of the United
Stateseccefecesenocee 217-227
on formation of rocks .. 306
future of great cities. 218 United
States.... 218
remarks on inclined strata... 277,389 voleanoes. 280
sketch. of ¢ a22.see=es 217, 705 Macomb, J. N., expedition of ..........-... 478 Macy, B.C., assistant to Owen -...--...--.-413 Maine, geological map Of........-.--------512 survey under Jackson... 346 natural history survey of.......---511 Mallett, J. W., work on Tuomey’s report.... 408 Mammoth bones in Ohio..........--------249 TEMAS. & 2 sie actele smc see 213-214 Manual of Geology, by E. Emmons ....-.---281 Mareou, Jules, discovery of Permian fossils im AMeriCaa-eee 485 geological map of the United States.........--.448 geologist, Wheeler survey-. 616 sketch of .222idesteacteee sees 703 work on Pacific Railroad SULVCYS sees eeeeese= 451 with Agassiz in Lake Superior region.... 415 | Marcy, Oliver, SKEtCHOie sae-seeeeaee eee 705
Marcy, R. B., exploration of the upper Red RIVi@l ss) sac ccs oo Steele eee eter enreecttere 434
Marsh, Dexter, finding of fossil footprints. 625, 630
Marsh, Othniel C., appointed United States
paleontologist ....---554 comparative value of vertebrate and in-
vertebrate fossils..... 658

<<<Page: 819>>>

Page. Marsh, Othniel C., description of AnchisauTALS COURS = etaesame eae 633 first scientific expedihiONes ner sess aS Seis Sac 553 SKetehiON Se acs a Sance sace 705 work in connection with fortieth parallel SUIVCY).cmees eoeoe eee 609 Martin’s Systema Reliquiorum............. 253
Marvine, Archibald R., assistant, Wheeler
SUEVG Veer mee eiias 616 geologist, Hayden SHEVGVieseaee == 598, 600 SketchiOterress-ee 705 views on lignitic PUOUP esas eee aa 651 Maryland, mineralogical map of... .....--214 work of J. T. Ducatel and J. H. Alexander... 222--.-321 P. T. Tyson and James ; ERS PANS Ss: eee See 428 Massachusetts, economic geology of......-. 311 first State geological surWEN Edacccon obo socoracdecdece 233 geological survey under PLiteh COC Kkeaec oe cer eee 307 Geology and mineralogy of. 233 of, by Chester DOWeOY a2 sciescces 269 Institute of Technology, incorporation of .........--343 Mather, Cotton, account of mammoth reNAG See On its sane te ec co eenen Se ecm eteiae 214 Mather, W. W., Elements of Geology....--334 on glacial drift and overturned folds ....... 395-396 physical geology of United States........ 393 SketehiOlmercenncceeseeen 333, 705
drift and sedimentation . 375-376
views on
the Taconic ... 663 work on New York geologTGRIOSUTVEY sec. 2.5 seems 2 374 NIG HO OO ale rol Des S eye ee eee ee 354 Meade, W., on elastic marble............... 223 Mease, James, geological account of the WILLE dS tLeste scence en eeelcase= a ese= 217 | Meek, F. B., assistant, Iowa survey......-.. 465 | survey of Illinois.... 496 to D. D. Owen....... 413 | G. C. Swallow .... 488 Chitigismuoiselalllieese.-eeeeeees 467 onvligniticieroupic.-=--5-. 2. 648-650 Permian fossilsin Kansas.. 485 Triassic in Kansas and Neraskapesascaacen = se ose487 sketchiotiy.censcesceee s6607, 706 with F. V. Hayden in Kansas. 587 work in Bad Lands, 1853-1866. 585 connection with fortiethparallelsurvey 609 eonnection with Wheelersurvey....616 Melaphyr, deceptive appearance of........ 284 Metallic wealth of United States, by WhitML OY) ciualaratn o'e(t)s)s/s fb eine inislnisieleiain/eitiniaicle e'sle(aiafein 438
| | | | |
Metamorphism, views of J. D. Dana .......-. Edw. Hitchcock. 470,510 Mexican boundary survey..........-....... 460 Michigan, survey under D. Honghton...... 360 Alex. Winchell... 505, 536
work of Foster and Whitney .... 417 Comaaecksoneeessastee ne 414
Raphael Pumpelly ....538
Milk sickness in cattle, cause of...........443 Millington, John, work in Mississippi. -..-430
Miineral cabinets, early.................---227 lands, reservation of, by General
Government o.ccess2scee=isine see ce 351 veins, views of O. M. Lieber....-.. 445 Mineralogy, treatise on, by P. Cleaveland.. 225 C. U.Shepard.. 227 | Minnesota, survey under H. E. Eames..... 530 NGISSISSIP Pin SOUTCES Olea se ee aacee eee eee = 242 survey under E. W. Hilgard.... 483 work of John Millington and Beli Ca Walesa set scia taste cise 430 Mississippi Valley, earthquake in.......... 280 explorations in......... 240 Nuttall’s observations OMiena. ac sees ceeees ae 255 Missouri, geological survey under G. C. Swallow: o-Sss-aneettbes secce 437 surveys of J. G. Norwood and Raphael Pumpelly ............ 555 work of Albert Hager ..--:.-..-: 554 Mitchell, Elisha, on origin of gold ......... 286 Sketch Ole 25 2 caueveces 285, 706 work in North Carolina... 285 Mitchill, Samuel L., amendment of Maelure’s chart of United States..... 224 eatalogue of mineralsfrom Niagara... 223 ideas on drift..... 230-232 observations on geology of North IAMETICRass. .22 56 230 SketGh) Ole ae-eeeoses 706 Moebius, Carl, views on Evzoon canadense.. 642 Montana, survey under F. V. Hayden,1871. 595 work of F. V. Hayden in 1872.... 596 Montreal, geology of, by J.J. Bigsby........ 265 Moody, Pliny, finding of fossil footprints.. 628 Moore, Francis M., appointed State geoloPIShOR MEAS: see — ce 487 workin Texas......... 509 Moore, P. N., assistant, survey of Kentucky. 565 Morton, Samuel G., correlation by means Of Tossils)22)5s2% eset 288 sketch Ofectece yaceee 706 Morse, L. D., geological survey of Missouri. 438
Mountain building, views of James Hall. 499-500
Joseph Le Contess.--.< 502 making, Le Conte’s views....... 558 structure, views of J.P. Lesley .. 513 uplift, views of William Aiken... 321 G.K.Gilbert .... 617 F.V.Hayden.... 590 Clarence King. 611, 612 Mudge, Benjamin F., sketch of ............ 706 work in Kansas..... 625

<<<Page: 820>>>

Page. Murchison, remarks on Dobson’s views.... 274 views on fossil footprints .... 627,628 | Murray, Alexander, assistant on Canadian SUDVGV ES ceaeenecacicne 517 sketchjol-<sessc-e205 706 work in Newfoundland cice ower ase 520 Murrish) John, sketch" of -22---.----) -2-ee=706 work in Wisconsin ......... 552 Mushback, J. E., assistant, Hayden survey. 603 Nash, Alanson, views on lead mines.....-. 284 | National Institute organized ..........-..--364 Natural Brideeoniginiots--.5 5-2-2 s2se— 224 WalltofRowanteraesosccseocssce one 267 Nebraska, work of F. V. Hayden........--592 Nevada, attempted State survey ..........503 Newberry, J. S., assistant, Illinois survey.. 496 geologist, vesexpedition. 477 on placiation =... -.2<cs512 origin of canyon of ColOTHO OP Aenee 477 | drift.... 542,548,645 | lignitic group ..-.-.....651 TACONICE a ccssce sees ee 675 second survey of Ohio.... 541 Aketeh' Of... cerceescen 480, 707 with the Macomb expediTOW Soha ie cima nnieeines 478 work on Pacific Railroad SUIVECYS'Soceceocescemases 455 Newberry-Whittlesey controversy. ......--543 New Brunswick, work of A. Gesner.......353 Newfoundland, work of Murray and How-
NOY Sparejesemisle sjscismrateismices ieee cee eee as 520 New Hampshire, survey by C. T. Jackson.. 358 New Haven, geology and mineralogy of... 224 New Jersey, subsidence of coust............ 524
survey by H: D. Rogers ...---326 OPI835 Geese see Seach 326 under William Kitehell 460 GAH Cooke as. 523 New Mexico, explorations in, by A. WislizeMUS! cc eceeoese aoe Nees 398 work of F. V. Hayden ...... 592 Newton, Henry, assistant, survey of Ohio.. 541 sketehvoras. cess ceconeoe 707 work in Black Hills ...-.-568 New York, geological survey of -.....-.---344 personnel of . 344 Island, geology of ........-.-357, 385 State geological survey....... 374, 381 Niagara Falls, estimation of age ........... 358 gorge of, views of Rogers and FairNOMMEs 2s swe. pee ae ences 327 views on formation of, by 3 Or = ec ee Nee a 384
= limestone: cscs easces ce cee cenenee 353 Nicholson, William, meteorologist on Hay-
GEWISULVEY setses sco ssess caccee see cedetees 596 Nicollet, Jean N., explorations of .......-.. 316
sketchOf ao.-c esse eens 316 INDIES Werke ySetch! Olisacet ees anaeeee ese 707
Noachian deluge. See DELUGE.
North American geology, E. Emmons...-..
North Carolina coal, age of. ..-.---.2:-----survey by Denison Olmsted.
Elisha Mitchell.... 285 Norwood, C. J., assistant, survey of Kentucky.. 3.2) eee 565 geologist on survey of MisSOUT seteeeeee Rs haiae 555 Norwood, Joseph G., assistant to Swallow.. 488 in charge, survey of MissourTE.--s eee ee 555 sketehiOlsseessosassees 707 work in Illinois....... 432 Novaculite, origin of, by D. D. Owen ...--482 Nova Scotia, geology of, by C. T. Jackson and Francis Alger ....:....288 | work of. J. W. Dawson .....-..446 | Abraham Gesner..... 336 Nuttall, Thomas, observations on structure of Mississippi-Valley so... --~=s2seeecees 255 Observations on the geology of North AMEVICE 2 oes sa)20 cs anda ae en se emenoenere 230 Ohio, Edward Orton, State geologist ....Fe. O46 geological survey of, by W.W. Mather 331 under J. S. Newberryiw cess sscoee 541 work of 8. P. Hildreth.... 330 Hall’s geological work in....-....--. 383 Olmsted, Denison, discovery of red sandStONG oe! aceeeeeceeers 249 sketch*of--2se sesese 267, 707 survey of North Carohina? 2.525. eee eee 266 | .Ooliticistructure, Callse OLs-ese-peeeeee sees 443 Ore deposits, origin of, by Whitney -......473 Oreodon from Bad Lands .............---.-413 Origin of the earth, views of B. Silliman .. 292 Ornithichnites, name given by Edw. HitchCOCK 2 3 256 Sica sseee ase eee ae ose eeeee 625 Orton, Edward, assistant on geological survey.of Ohios. /22ceeene 541 sketehioie: ceree sen eee 547, 707 State geologist of Ohio .... 546 Overthrust fault, early suggestion of.....-253
North Carolina, work of E. Emmons........ Wii Kerr. aes 530, 562
Overturned folds of Snake Hill...........277 views of Edw. Hitchcock; and H. D. Rog-
CISi ss oc Se aesas 314 W.W. Mather.... 396 Owen, SDDS, death: Of. ass os seaee eee 483 geological survey of Indiana.. 349 Kentucky 443 geology of the Western States. 369 on human footprintsin stone. 264 sketehiot:+7.t.2-2--2 2a eee 350, 707
surveys of Iowa, Wisconsin, angelilinoiss..ssesese eeeeee 351
work in Chippewa land district... 22. se ccses 411 Arkansas: 22.22 ase 482 on survey of Indiana... 507 Owen, Richard, geology of the globe ...-.-. 474 sketchvoty. is. secce unease 708
views on fossil foot prints of
Conneticut Val= TEYiscnctcinetocae 627

<<<Page: 821>>>

Page. Platt, W. B., naturalist, Hayden survey.... 596 Pope’s expedition of 1855..................444 Porphyries of Missouri, origin of........... 556 Potsdam sandstone, origin of ........ 468, 553, 571
_ Potter, William B., assistant, survey of ODIOMSste ccc sees 541 geologist, survey of MissQUuTIe eSesccesce 555 Sketchtoh. see eaece es 709 Powell, John W., exploration of the Grand Canyons: socescecee ce 566 geological and geographCal SNEVeVSee ea ceeee 619 Sketchrofoecec occ emennoe 709 workin Uinta Mountains. 619 Powell, W. Byrd, work in Fourche Cove... 373 lebrainiesSoriginiOtmetess sss ssn. coe ceesee cece 497 Pratton, Henry, assistant to Owen......... 413 EresuuedsleysecnOniOleassccseseesece secs. 243 Prime, Frederick, assistant, survey of Pennsylvania ...... 582 pketehi of. 5-2--e. < 709 Proctor, J. R.,assistant,surveyofKentucky. 565 Prout, H. A., description of Bad Lands fosSUS Gas ces eee sees ok Miao os unt ewes 413 Pumpelly, Raphael, on origin of copper... 588 origin of porphyries and iron ore........ 556 SKECCHUOhes cusses See 709 survey of Missouri.... 555 work in China........ 522 Michigan .. 536,538 Rafinesque, annals of Kentucky ........... 271 Rapp, Frederick, views on human footPLINtSiniglOnNe ssc. See cee eee 263 Rathbun, Richard, with Hartt in Brazil... 530 Raynolds, W. F., expedition to the YellowSLOME PRIVEE seater ct teea inci forse Sievea Sere 589 Read, M. C., assistant, survey of Ohio....-. 541 Redfield, William C., sketch of............. 709 Red River of Louisiana, exploration of, by Mar@y -2 te mise cok aac ostewns -cesecasaaees 434 Redisandstone: fossilsin =... .-----seenese ene 249 Rensselaer County, N. Y., Eaton’ssurveyof. 254 Rhode Island, survey of, under Jackson... 347 Richardson, James, assistant, survey of Canada .....Bavse se pau BHU aGEeoedeenooeed 517, 549
Page. | Owen, Richard, views on value of fossils... 507 | work in Arkansas......... 482 | onsurvey of Indiana. 507 Ozark Mountains, carboniferous rocks ..... 247 Pacific Railroad surveys .........-...-... 449-456 J. L. Le Conte’s WORK: ayaa noecesar 531 Packard, A.S., entomologist, Mainesurvey. 511 Paleozoic deposits, parallelism of, by Hall. 419 | strata, classification of......... 490-492 PAMASTRELELre GLO ee =~ oes ste a eo aeaeee oe 207 | Paradoxides; finding) of 2.5-52. -----2-464 | Parallelism of Paleozoic deposits .........419 | Parry, C. C., geologist, Mexican boundary SULCVCYe cen cece sae coe ees cincwicie sees oesce 460 Peale, Albert C., geologist, Hayden surVOW coh cncsecceteocee 598, 603 | inverted beds of Jackass Creekaese-ese cesses 597-599 mineralogist, Hayden BUDA EA Seen ASonaecoss 595 | sketehiots-. 925 ee 708 + views on lignitiec group. 654 | with Hayden surveys... 593, | 596, 600 Peale, Rembrandt,on bonesofmammoth.. 213 | Pebbles, distortion of, in conglomerate .... 315 | elongation Olas. ss eeeeeeseceee s 510 Pennsylvania, appointmentof H.D. Rogers, State geologist............ 344 final reports on geology of.. 489 geological survey of .......-. 344 organization of Geological SOCIGtir eet onan eae 320 second geological survey of. 581 | Percival, James G., geological survey of Connecticut ........ 29 on origin of ironores. 442 sketchron 29222 s5o-65 329, 708 work in Wisconsin ... 442 ELMAN OSS Steps sees ch cine eee 485 | IREQEV a0 ON Be SketehOlos-ceeee cee ee ec ean 708 | views on Eozoonal struc| jAbIRS Se ceeariogs 643 Richmond bowlder train...... 405 PPACOM Cees see 668 Peter, Robert, analyses of soils............. 483 | assistant to D. D. Owen..... 443 chemist, survey of Ken| ITO Kiva era ae eee 565 SKCtChPO lease heen ee. 708 Petite Anse, geological work of E. W. HilDATO ere Sar ea eeec haces 561 OLISMMVOLS te ee eee cee case ce 504 Petroleum in California, viewsof J. D. WhitNE Yrs ee ea bet ee Ss osc cel woce 515 origin of, in Ohio, views of J. S. NGWHEIrYy: cess aos seneee cee e 542 springs, early discovery of....-. 331 Philadelphia, geology of environs ......... 283 Phillips, H., assistant to Owen .-..-.--:.--353 Physical geology of United States, by W. W. | IMSUNeTaeeeniet atone x osteo a ene te oe ease 394 Pilot Knob, eruptive nature of, by S. B. 510
UEYONS en nec a dtd SaRe CH OM nD aA GABE OMOEP AGG
Richmond bowlder train, origin of... 393, 402, 405
Richthofen’s classification of voleanie rocks 622 Riddell, J. L., on geology of Texas......... 355 Riddell, W. P., assistant, survey of Texas.. 488 RIGSew ay Te Sy ee eee as saree ese seee meee 341 Ridgway, Robert, ornithologist, fortieth parallelisurvey << 6 ssa. ce ose swaecte see 609 Rivers, cutting power Of=-. ..-.--2--css----= 310 Rock classification, by J.F.andS.L.Dana.. 229 iy Kmmons=--seee 431 Edward Hitcheock 311-312 (voleanic), by RichtNOLEN yee see eee cles 622 Rock decay, views of J. Van Rensselaer.... 279 ROC WERT ERIN = Soest = See seca ace atte omeiece 284 aM GkeTOSIOMEs a= ce-se eee 435 Rocks, age of, by Lardner Vanuxem.....-. 291 Rocky Mountains, Long’s expedition to.... 245 Roemer, Ferdinand, work in Texas........ 487

<<<Page: 822>>>

Page RoeppersW.. T.isketch Ofc s.ce=—=. --=== = 709 Roessler, A. R., assistant to Shumard in MOXAS oh Cae ntenassnee 510 draftsman on suryey of MOXA 8 ts eee ee MS rcleia = 488
Ragers Brothers, on Appalachian structure. 493 views on Richmond bow!l-
Genitrainee. see -ees een 402 Rogers, Henry D., appointed State geologist of Pennsylvania ...-.-344 final report on geology of Pennsylvania ...-...-.489 geological survey of New Jersey, 183) 252 -— == -mi<326 Lesley’s controversy.... 461 on age of white limeSUOMC 2 enon ae 326 atmosphere of coal PENOGN: 2 esa asccc 390 formation of coal... 372 glaciation .....-..--494 overturned folds.... 314
physical structure of Appalachianchain 370 subsidence and depo-
SiON esses sseccn 508 thegorgeof Niagara. 327 the Taconic. .....-... 663 vein formation..-.-.. 495 Sketehvol.ceaasccccienis 328, 709 workon Virginiasurvey. 341 ROP ers tu en CSU mete erecta ats a eat atevaratar 341 Rogers) Robert Hee. otc scc tea-= sa eine aoe 341 chemist, survey of PennSylvania: 2. s.)s-4s0 222 490 Rogers, William B., geological survey of Wine imia.: <= 2 o= icra 341
on discovery of infusory stratum... 342 inversion of strata 342 physical structure of Appalachian chainiesscesseee 370 thermal springs... 372 sketehyOfe-e-ee ect 342, 710 Rogers, W. B., jr., assistant, survey of PennSyl vamige -2ce stecaieme <eh oeal-ie elem eels enero 490 Rominger, Carl, sketeh of-----.-----=-540,710 work on survey of Michi-
BVH cancgscnone seneo0oT 536, 538
Rothe, C. E., on origin of gold ores ........ 286 Rowney,T. H., views on FKozoon canadense. 639, 641 Ruins Hdmrunidssketehvoiees-see--ee ae 710 work in South Carolina... 386
Russell, Israel C., assistant, Wheelersurvey. 616 sketch ofeenessce oc seen one 710
Russian astronomical expedition .......--207
St. John, Orestes, assistant, survey of Illi-
OSS oscar eseeee 496 Workin Braziles. see see 529 Wyoming....-.. 603
Safford, James M., final report on geology of Tennessee... <.. 0. 534
on unconformability in Tennessee ........... 488 BICCUCHObuwenciean cle enle 710
: Page. Safford, James M., work in Tennessee...... 456 Salt form aiionvOlsses= sae mee ese see eee 270 Sand rock (red) of New York, age of....--471 Sandstone of Connecticut, age of.......---309 (Potsdann)orisimiote ss -= 468 (red) of eastern United aha OVIGIN Of sess: a= aero 395 (red) of Lake Superior, age of. 418, 415 Say, Thomas, with Long’s expedition...... 245 zoologist, Long’s expedition to. Great Lakes)... -<-s-<-274 Schaeffer, P. W. assistant, survey of PennSVIVaNIS tee ereeeer ee ee eee eee eee Cee 490 Schenk, J.. assistant survey of Indiana.... 548 Schiel, James, work on Pacific Railroad SbAwN Rise ogucaascapadcdsoosscossoceseasbese _ 455 Schmidt, Adolph, geologist, survey of MisSOUDL.. S5sene eee eens 555 on origin of iron ore.... 556
Schmidt, H. D., naturalist, Hayden surveys. 593 Schénborn, Anton, topographer, Hayden SULVEYiSo2 oes rece ae eet ates siete ier 595 Schooleraft, Henry R., explorations of Mississippi Valley.. 240, 243
inland seas...--.---245 lead mines of MisSOULE. = .-stae once 240 section of Presque Isle. So.eee ose eee 243 sketch! Of-eees=-—240, 710 travels< secre sae 244 views on copper deposits... 244 Dubuque lead deposits... 244 supposed human footprints 261 Schépf’s work on American geology...-.--208 Schott, Arthur, assistant, Mexican bound-
BLY SULV.C¥eeseee se eee ee esse 460 Schuchert, Charles, on geology of Tennessee 489 Scudder, Samuel H., sketch of ....--.----..-710
work in Colorado and Wyoming =-2-=--602, 603 Secondary enrichment of ore deposits, views
OLD Ds White yaseesee eee aan eee 440 Section from Catskill Mountains to the At-
lantiC sass oseece nesses ee eee ee eee oes 235 Sedimentation, Mather’s views on .......-376 Selwyn, A. R. C., director geological survey
onCanadayjece-e aes 549 sketeh: Of. caeteer ccna 549 views on Taconic.....-.--675
Serpentine of Syracuse, New York, originof 459 Serra, J. Corre de, on nature of soil of Ken-
Shaler, Nathaniel S., director of geological survey of Kentucky 565 on continental uplift. 528
geology of Anti-
costi Island ...-. 519 sketehiof <5 --2-s-s-0=— 711 Shaw, James, assistant, Illinois survey....496
Shepard, Charles U., mineralogical survey of Connecticut..... 329
eee eee eee

<<<Page: 823>>>

Page. Shepard, Charles U., on geology of upperMin IS! Sesser c ase 340 sketchvofes 5-2-5622 711 treatise on mineralOB Yuss sae oSsee Se Se 227 Shumard, Benjamin F., assistant toSwallow 437 ‘ discovery of PermiAMLOSslSeaee Sass; 486 geological survey of TeKasisseeee eee ee 487 sketehvoiees. a. cea. 711 work on Marcy expedition! 22:.=.-.435 Shumard,G.G., report on Marey expedition 434 work in the Red River disPLiCheee es 5 1NSs ee 434 on Pope expedition.. 444 Shumard, G. G., assistant, survey of Texas. 488 Sierravel bate: .2e2-2520-42 We tees S 601, 602 Sierraal BaSalh= soesen ee eee secs aa eee eee 601 Silliman, Benjamin, appointment at Yale. 215 on aqueo-igneous aPenciesia25-452 318 cause of deluge.... 260, 293, 316 fossils in rocks.... 293 Genesis and geolORY =ee2 asthe 316-317 geologyof New HaVOM eons ee Sialic 224 lead mines near Northampton, IMISSS eee ese ee 223 mineralogy of New Havens. sccase 216 originoftheearth. 292 the Weston meteGhullaaseeieea acer 216 outlines of geology... 292 sketch Of eeac ccacice 215, 711 Silliman, Benjamin, jr.,on intrusive trap of Connecticut -.... 389 Sketehvot 2e.-c2 2 711 Silliman’s Journal, founding of ............ 228 Silurian formations, unconformability of .. 488 Sinks, Tiffin, assistant, survey of Kansas.... 527 Sioux country, Warren expedition to ...... 586 Slates of Lake Superior, origin of.........-. 419 Slaty cleavage, cause of .................406, 494 SMiph Caw skeLteh Ole. ssceceessecce eee 711 Smith, Eugene A., sketch of .............:.-. 711 work in Alabama........ 565 Smith, J. Lawrence, sketch of.............-712 Smith, T. P., on crystalline basalt........... 214 Smith, William, first geological map........ 217 Smithsonian Institution, organized ........ 364 Snake Hill, overturned folds of............. 277 Society of American Naturalists and GeoloPINts OTP aNiZed as. c2 eee eee ee cane cece Se 364 Soil fertility, views of Amos Eaton ......... 300 BSE MMOUS ee. eses = 432 formation, views of J. Van Rensselaer 279 Soils, analyses of, by Robert Peter ........-. 483 ONIPINIOL Dy OSeIT dees eeeeeae same e 224 South Carolina, first geological survey of.. 387 Tuomey’s final report on SCOOP Ofei a seceucn-s405-406
Page.
| South Carolina, work of O. M. Lieber ..... 444 Ruffin and Tuo-
F WIEN Sosceaasse 386-387
Spencer, A. C., studies on origin of gneiss. 524
Squire, Joseph, sketch of..........-...-... 712
Stansbury, Howard, explorationsin Utah.. 410
Stanton, T. W., views on lignitic group.... 658 State geological survey, first................ 233 Steel, J. H., overturned folds of Snake Hill. 277 Stevens, R. P., geology of New York Island. 386
Stevenson, James, with Hayden survey.. 592,596 Stevenson, John J., assistant on geological survey of Pennsyl-
VELL soca pottee 582 geologist, Wheeler surVGYs ccccesnsoceee see 616 paleontological work in Pennsylvania........ 583 Sketchwofic anor oescennee 712 views on Laramie. ...-619 lignitie group 652 Strong, E. A., assistant, survey of Michi[hile Sea asoonpe CB SaB nae cece dence Gc 536 Strong, Moses, assistant, survey of WisconSINS see a ts ew eee 570, 571 Stuckle, Henry W.,assistant, Haydensurvey 599 Subsidence and deposition, views of W. B. Rogers and Louis Agassiz.... 508 of Atlantic coast, views on.. 406,409 Superimposed valleys, term first used... -.. 567 Swallow, George C., geological survey of KeaMSeSieoece <ic))5 2 527 geological survey of IMISSOUTIE Sees sae 437 on Permian fossils in Kansas ostsS: deen 5 485 SHAS ORecgsccas Deh (Aly survey of southwest branch of Pacific” RawlroOnd sees seee = 456 Sweet, E. T., assistant, survey of Wisconsin. 571 Taconic; name firsts proposed .-+..---4sce 661 QuestONpes-ca-se ena aeeeeee ons 659 NOCKSE a eee eos ees at ee emmene ae 472 SVSUOM eee amici rocineleaeie eee 281 Taggert, W. R., geologist, Hayden geological SUB CY) seep see ee soe ae eetromisineis ceca 596, 599 Tappan, Benjamin, ideas on drift.......... 286 Taylor, Richard C., model of coal field..... 365 sketehiOt jet sete sence 712 Tennessee, geological survey of 1831-18385 .. 308 Safford’s final report on geology Olizeeweeerzas esos 2os cee ee nes 534 sketch of geology, by R. O. CurPOYiee sa eciciew Moen ees aes 458 unconformability between Si= luTianiormatlonsi->-------5. 488 work of J. M. Safford ....-...... 456 Gerard Troost-<...---.366 Ternary, name proposed by H. H. Hayden. 259 | Tertiary, T. A. Conrad’s views on!.........320
deposits of Atlantic coast, by Lardner Vanuxem 288
North America...... 306 Tuomey’s views on....-. 407 of North America, by Conrad.... 396

<<<Page: 824>>>

Page. Tertiary rocks of Alabama, views of Isaac GR. Sore ae Se cyanea eels car sinlee 320 subdivisions of, by John Finch... 266 by J.S. Newberry 542 work on, by T. A. Conrad........ 354 Teschemacher, J. E., sketch of.....-......712 Texas, geological survey under B. F. Shumad st eee ee see natn st eae 487 geology of, by J. L. Riddell......... 355 work of Francis Moore and §. B. Buckleye qctestese-ser-Ler-aeesaases 509 Thermal springs, views of Rogers on..-..--. 372 Thomas, Cyrus, botanist on Hayden survey. 592 Thomassy, R., Geologie Pratique de la LouIGIAN Ce Hoe cies cae so eee ies ses Seer alelage 504 Thompson, Zadock, assistant, Vermont sur\GNEseanseneaououscdoee 391 geologist, Vermont surVGYirw nec cme partsieme ol < 469 sketchiotese-seoe-=. 393, 712 Transition, name first applied....-....-.--377 Trap rocks of Conewago Hills...--.-.--.--254 volcanic nature Of. 2254.5. 1s 255
wealhening Olsens. 5sseeee si 255, 284
SOULGO OL: ssecacasecnccsmseesecseetent 289 tufa of Connecticut Valley ........--389 Trask, John B., geological survey of CaliTOMA ee ee eerie 435 SKEtChOlee os seas aeee 712 Trego, C. B., assistant, survey of PennsylWa Bien amaoemttesiie rice eine cee eclanece mee = 490 Triassic rocks in Kansas and Nebraska .... 487 Trilobites, monograph of, by Jacob Green. 305 Troost, Gerard, geology of environs of Philadel pigs. scsc sate see _ 283 SKeEtCH Ole aos soca c sails 282, 712 work in Tennessee ....--303, 366 True, N. T., assistant on survey of Maine.. 411 Tuomey, Michael, report on geology of South Carolina .....405 sketch of. 5. 5-2-2: = 387, 713 survey of Alabama.... 408 views on Tertiary dePOSLIS a: 4-22 55-ntees 407 workinSouthCarolina 387 Tyrrell, J. B., assistant, survey of Canada.. 549 Tyson, Philips, sketeh Ole es nearest ae 713 work in California ...-..427 Manylandl=---e.428 Uinta Mountains, J. W. Powell’s workin... 619 views of Clarence King.. 612 Ulrich, E. O., on geology of Tennessee... .489 Uniformitarianism, views of Edw. HitchCOCK sr ose as aaa ere ae essai ele 310 United States exploring expedition.......-. 422
Geological Survey, consolida_ tion OL SURVEYSs=—-2---">= 624
map, by Jules Marecou.....-448
Uplift and erosion, views of J. P. Lesley... 518 continental, views of N.S.Shaler.... 528
of strata, views of Abraham Gesner. 337
Wish explorations dls. s—e= ease = ese 410 work of Henry Engelmann .....-.-..-. 502 Valley formation, by Amos Eaton......-.-. 270
Valleys of denudation..................-311, 313 Van Rensselaer, Jeremiah, lectures on geol-
; Page.
Van Rensselaer, Jeremiah, on originot coal 279 views on rock
decomposition 279
Van Rensselaer, Stephen......./.-.---.-.-254
sketebiot: soe. 713
Vanuxem, Lardner, on relative age of rocks 291 < Tertiary deposits of
Atlantic coast.... 288 value of fossils in
geology --.-.--...291
sketch: of <.222522--se 291,713
views on Taconic...-... 663
work in New York.... 378
Vein formation, views of Alanson Nash.... 284
H.D. Rogers... .-.< 495
Vermont, first State geological survey of... 391
survey under Edward Hitchcock. 469 Viele, Egbert L., assistant to William Kitch-
Ql sede coo emae eet ee ae eee ee 460 Virginia, survey by W. B. Rogers.......---. 341 Voleanie activity, views of William Mac-
Mure usc Sen cack Sethe paceeee ease ee 306 Volcanoes (supposed) in Connecticut -...-.. 209
views of Thomas Cooper .....-.261 COT! Jacksone-s--2e2—359 P William Maclure ....-. 280 Von Hochstetter, Ferdinand, views on
POZOONICONAGENSE = sae ne = a eee eel 640 Vose, G. L., assistant on survey of Maine... 411 Wachsmuth, Charles, sketch of ..........-713 Wadsworth, A. M., assistant, survey of
Michigan ee ae. samen: eee eee sete 536 Wailes, B. L. C., work in Mississippi .....-430 Wakefield, E. R., meteorologist on Hayden
SUTV.GYj2e oe see ee ene eee 596 Walcott, Charles D., section of Bald Moun-
badits 52k. Seti eae 674 sketch Of; s-----eseese 713 views on Taconic..... 672 Ward, L. F., views on lignitic group ...-..-657 Ward, T., assistant, survey of Pennsylvania. 490 Warder, R. B., assistant, survey of Indiama. 548 Warren, George, assistant to OWen......-.. 413 Warren, G. K., expedition to the Black iS 2s See Sete eee 587 expedition to the Sioux COUMUENG = 5--cheese ee 586 Wasatch Mountains, uplift of ..........-611-613 Washington, D. C., geology of vicinity -..-.214 Watson, Sereno, botanist, fortieth parallel BUEV EY oaceiae = = Sep ee ie Sete lel ae el 609 Webster, J. W., geology of Boston .....-...283 on origin of joints.....-..-284 weathering of Medford (Ot) 8 eacaecareeonocdres 284 Webster, Samuel, paper by......-.--------209 Wells) Mises ce cree seis cinieso tet sieteteinietae ia 341 Werner, TelerredstOe seem see eee oe eee 208 Western States, geology of, by Byrem Lawrence ..... 386 D. D. Owen. 369 West India Islands, geology of, by William
Machure 22022. 6 2 anstesne ne are ee 306 Weston meteorite, description of, by Silli-
11) Eee SE Ses aR esacapeHsoeTos7 216 Wheeler, G. M., survey west of one hun-
dredth meridian.................20ee-eee « 616

<<<Page: 825>>>

Page. Whelpley, J. D., assistant, survey of Pennsylvania....-Pa einters asic 2 isis abe sees se 490 White, Charles A., assistant on Heyden surWEVSs cisisciewocceseen's= ni 592 geologicalsurvey oflowa 532 @nLlignitic= =... 2s 255-42 655, 658 paleontologist, Hayden (SEU AEN Case ga scseAvede 603 sketch’ of<2 2s. .e2sesen c= 713 work in connection with Wheeler surVEEN Mec ROCEE 616 on Powell survey.. 619 White, Israel C., assistant, survey of PennSVM VAM Sais ao sei we Ss 582 paleontological work in Pennsylvania .......... 583 SketeHiOh osecst mc eee 713 Whiteaves, J. F., assistant, surveyofCanada 549 Whitfield, Robert P., assistant on Iowa surWheliSe Ss hens eccerooS 465 paleontologist, survey of Wisconsin ....-.57 sketehiof es -.-.<-1s15 mt with fortieth parallel SULVEGVEes cee 609 Whitney, James D., assistant, Illinoissurvey 496 survey of WisCOnSIN\| =. 5= 571 to Jackson ... 358 auriferous gravels ...... 578 chemist,survey oflowa. 465 climatic changes .....--. 579 metallic wealth of the United States......-.. 438 Sketch sae sss se sees 714 State geologist of CaliFOTIA see sees aoe 515 views on— age of gold-bearing rocks of California 416 comparative value of gold andsilver. 439 PlaCiation! 2. .--5-5580 lead in Mississippi Walley .-22 552. 439, 496 occurrence of gold.. 439 origin of— ore deposits... .. 473 Potsdam sandSLOUGH aa ne 468 Yosemite Valley 516 secondary enrichment of ore deMOSIISP secs ee ee se 440 value of G. W. Featherstonhaugh’s WODK Oo Seer atecelas 303 workin Iowa....... 468 Michigan. 415, 417 Wisconsin... 473 Whittlesey, Charles, assistant to Owen..... 413 controversy with J.S. Newberry....-<-...643
INDEX. (ess)
Page.
Whittlesey, Charles, sketch of.............714
work in Ohio .....-.... 544
Wirhte OW sketch Ofc. ge sta. mcectecec aces 715
State geologist of Wisconsin. 570
Wilkes exploring expedition............. 345, 422
Williams, H.S., views on Taconic ......-..675
Wilson, A. D., topographer, Haydensurvey. 599 Wilson, J. W., exception to Mitchill’s hy-
DOUMESES: = sax. ses ce Sscsceece 260
on cause of deluge.......... 260
Winchell, Alexander, sketch of.......... 505,714
survey of Michigan. 5386
viewson Taconic.... 675
work on survey of
Michigan ......... 505 Winchell, Newton H., assistant on survey of Michigan...... 536 Sketch Of ss-ere=sce 714 workin Black Hills. 567 Wine. Anpistus sketehOtseccecsacce = cece = 714 views on Taconic......... 668 Winnipeg country, work of Henry Y. Hind MEDS ciate seis tet Nate a wera Soke ce De asce meee 499 Winslow, Arthur, assistant, survey of PennSylviaiaes cette orc ce ose ce ceeeeeeacce se 582 Wisconsin driftless area ...................473 survey under T.C. Chamberlin. 571 I. A. Lapham..... 570° DDO wenssassc: 351 surveys under James Hall, E. §, Carr, and Edward Daniels.... 472 work of Edward Daniels and J. GaPerelyalsecescenes 442 RD) eirvingie emacs. S 573 Jonny Murrishies sc-esse 552 Ui.) Dw Wintneys-ssenis=ce 473 Wislizenus, F. A., explorations in New Me@XiCOz = -so-cc2 cee 398 skelehvofss-caeseseese 715 Wooster, L. C., assistant, survey of WisconSEI emt cme tacieeeaee sesep meus ne detec 571 Worthen, Amos H., assistant, survey of NOW ace sce cose 465 on origin of drift... 497 sketch: of 2-0-2 -2 497, 715 State geologist of IlliNOS G-series oe 433 work in Illinois..... 496 Wright, Cs Eo Sketch:0f. =... 2c-< << a <S-eee-s 715 Wright, George F., assistant, survey of PennSylivamiahes-seseasec cee 582 SKetCH Obs s5s--0 2 Sean 715 Wurtz, Henry,assistant, New Jersey survey. 460 sketchtoiss.4-2 scoot eases 715 Wyman, Jeffries, sketch of ..............--. 715 Wyoming, Hayden survey, 1878 .....--..--603 work OL HSV. Hayden =. 22 -sn592 Yellowstone Park, survey of by F. V. HayGON Sooke soe sede ca cece as cosine een ont cate 595 Yosemite Valley, origin of, views of J. D. \i leu OR ons sons uSeOodeineenoURcUEBCbEneeaec 516 Zirkel, Ferdinand, petrographer, fortieth PparallelsimVvey cise eters esis ae tS 609

<<<Page: 826>>>

Tie a Ja 4
$< d ae Seles. Swe oe

<<<Page: 827>>>

IMMANUEL M. CASANOWICZ, Aid, Division of Historic Archeology.

<<<Page: 828>>>



<<<Page: 829>>>

By Immanvet M. Casanowicz,
Aid, Division of Historic Archeology.
The collection was made by Mr. Howland during his travels abroad, which extended from Iceland to Burma, and loaned to the Smithsonian Institution, by which it was deposited in the United States National Museum. Most of the objects were obtained by him from their original possessors. Besides the objects herein described, Mr. Howland’s deposit includes also several valuable Oriental manuscripts.
Buddhism arose at the end of the sixth or beginning of the fifth century B. C. as a schism or reformation of Brahmanism in India. Its founder, known by the names of Gautama, Sakyamuni, and Buddha, was Siddhartha, son of Suddhodanna, of the family Gautama, rajah, or chieftain, of the Sakya clan, who were settled in the Ganges Valley, at the foot of the Nepalese Himalayas, about a hundred miles to the north of Benares, with Kapilavatsu as capital.
The simple facts of the founder’s career, so far as they can be freed from the mass of legends woven about his person, are as follows: Siddhartha, who was of a meditative turn of mind and deeply impressed with the vanity and misery of life, retired from the world at the age of 29, after ten years of married life. This is called the ‘‘ Great Renunciation.” For six years he led the life of a recluse, devoting himself to the study of the various systems of philosophy and theology of the times, and to severe ascetic practices, without finding in either a solution of the riddle of existence. In his thirty-fifth year he passed through a second mental crisis. While sitting in meditation under the famous Bo-tree (a species of /%cus religiosa) at Buddha Gaya, he attained to the state of a Buddha—that is, of an ‘‘ enlightened one,” or ‘awakened one”—having found the cause of the evils of life and the way of deliverance from them.
NAT Mus 1904——47 737

<<<Page: 830>>>

For forty-five years Buddha went about from place to place in the valley of the Ganges, proclaiming his good tidings and gathering around hima small band of faithful followers, the earliest members of his afterwards famous order. He died peacefully in the midst of his disciples in his eightieth year at Kusinagara, the modern Kasia in the district of Gorakhpur.
The substance of the teaching of Buddha is expressed in the ‘* Four Noble Truths”: (1) Existence is bound up with sorrow; (2) the causes of sorrow are our affections and passions; the craving for life and its pleasures, which result in new birth; old age, sickness, and death. For the present life of the individual is not the first one. Innumerable births have preceded it in previous ages. The attachment to life and its pleasures produces a new being, and the moral character of the actions of the former existences fixes the condition of the new being. This is called the law of cause and effect, or Aarma. It is the aggregate result of all previous acts, in unbroken succession from the beginning of existence, which, in the Buddhist conception of man, constitutes his character, his real self, his soul, as it were. This alone endures when an individual existence has come to an end, tending to form, as a kind of transmigration of character, a new sentient being, whose nature, condition, and fortune it determines. Individuals are merely the present and temporary links in a long chain of cause and effect. Hach link is the summarized result of the various activities of all that have gone before, and is, in its turn, part and parcel of all that will follow. By the theory of Karma, Buddhism explains the mystery of fate in the apparent unequal distribution here of happiness and woe, entirely independent of moral qualities. What aman reaps, Buddhism teaches, that he must himself have sown, as whatsoever a man sows that shall he also reap. (8) The cessation of sorrow by suppression of desire and passion; (4) the way to deliverance by the Eightfold Path: (1) Right views, (2) right resolutions, (3) right speech, (4) right conduct, (5) right way of earning a livelihood, (6) right endeavor, (7) right thoughts, and (8) right meditation.
The moral code of Buddhism is comprised in the following ten prohibitions: (1) Not to kill or even injure any sentient being, (2) not to steal, (3) not to commit adultery, (4) not to lie or use any manner of improper speech, (5) not to use intoxicating drinks, (6) not to take repasts at improper times (i. e., after midday), (7) not to attend dances, plays, and public spectacles, (8) not to wear costly raiment and garlands or use perfumes, (9) not to use large seats and beds, and (10) not to receive gold or silver.
The goal is the Virvana. In this life a passionless calm, beyond reach of temptation, through the extinction of the great passions, such

<<<Page: 831>>>

as lust, hatred, anger, envy, and delusion. By thus uprooting all desire, and by perfect detachment from life and its attractions, cessation of the renewal of existence will be attained.
According to the Buddhist doctrine the historical founder of Buddhism was ‘only one of the many Buddhas who appear in this world at intervals of many ages, and any one can become a Buddha—that. is, attain to the way of salvation for himself and others—by practicing self-denial and contemplation.
The Buddhist community in the strict sense consists of an order of monks and nuns (LAihAshus and Bhikhshunis) who, as a rule, live in monasteries and are vowed to celibacy, poverty, and obedience. But already in Buddha’s lifetime it was found impracticable for all his adherents to retire from the world and join the order. On these laybelievers only the first five of the ten injunctions quoted above are obligatory. Among the virtues recommended to the masses are reverence of parents and teachers, care for wife and children, submission to authority, control over self, patience, forbearance, humility and contentment, almsgiving, respect for the life of sentient creatures, and care for the welfare of all living things.
Buddha, his doctrine, and the community form the triad of Buddhism, and the formula of confessing fellowship with -Buddhism is: I take my refuge in the Buddha, in the Dharma, and in the Sangha.
Already at the death of Buddha the number of Buddhists seems to have been considerable. About the middle of the third century B. C., during the reign of Asoka, Buddhism began to spread all over India. Towards the end of the eleventh century A. D. it was entirely suppressed in India itself, the land of its origin. But it had been adopted by the kings of Ceylon in the third century B. C. From thence and the south of India it was carried, in the fifth and seventh centuries A. D., to Burma, Siam, and the Javanese archipelago. It entered China about 70 A. D. and spread from thence to Korea in the fourth century A. D., and to Japan in the sixth century A. D. It is the established religion of Nepal and Tibet, and has adherents among the Mongols and Kalmucks on the lower Volga and the Buriats of southern Siberia. Wherever Buddhism went it was modified by the national characteristics and inherited beliefs of its converts, so that its fundamental doctrines were often overshadowed, sometimes destroyed, and it developed into strangely inconsistent and even antagonistic beliefs and practices. At the same time it everywhere exercised a profound influence, both on the moral and religious life of the peoples and on their art and architecture.

<<<Page: 832>>>

Buddhism is divided into two great schools —the southern school in Ceylon, Burma, and Siam, called the *t Lesser Vehicle” (/inayana), which is assumed to have preserved the original teachings of Buddha in greater purity and simplicity; and the northern school in central and eastern Asia, called the ‘‘Greater Vehicle” (A/ahayana), which adopted many popular elements of mysticism and magic. Each of these schools is subdivided into many sects.
1. BUDDHA, STANDING ON THE LOTUS UPON A_PLATFORM, WITH AN AUREOLE.—The figure is made of teak, gilded, and studded with colored stones; the platform is of wood, carved, painted, and gilded, and likewise studded with colored stones; the aureole is inlaid with pieces of looking-glass, surrounded by a rim of open carved work, terminating ina bird, perhaps the Garuda, the mythical bird of India, or the sacred goose (Aanza). Measurements: Height of the figure, 3 feet 10 inches; height of the platform, 2 feet 4 inch; width, 3 feet; depth, 3_ feet 6 inches.—Burma. (Plate 1, Cat. No. 216137, U.S.N.M.)
Buddha is generally represented as a beardless young man. The head is surmounted by a protuberance ( U/shnisha), being the ** hump of perfect wisdom.” The hair is arranged in short curls, resembling sharp points, which tradition interprets to represent snails which once came out to shelter Buddha’s head from the rays of the sun. A precious stone in the form of a bead (U/rna) is on the forehead. The ear lobe are pierced and long, sometimes touching the shoulders. The arn are long, which with the Hindus is a mark of noble birth. The robe is thrown over the left shoulder, leaving the right one free. He is either standing, the attitude of teaching, or sitting with crossed legs, meditating, or reclining, passing away into the Wirvana. The throne (padmasana) upon which he sits or stands is formed of the fully opened lotus flower, the symbol of purity and perfection. Behind the head is often displayed a nimbus or halo, frequently in form of a fig leaf, in remembrance of the tree under which he attained to Buddhahood.
2. BuDDHA, SITTING IN MEDITATION.—Bronze and inerusted around the forehead with colored stones. Height, 2 feet 5 inches. —Burma. (Plate 2, Cat. No. 216126, U.S.N.M.)
3. BuppHA, SEATED UPON A LoTus.—Carved of teak and gilded Height, 3 feet.—Burma. (Plate 3, Cat. No. 216131, U.S.N.M.)
4. BUDDHA, RECLINING (passing into Nirvana).—Made of alabaster, gilded and incrusted with colored stones. Placed on carved and gilded wooden stand. Length of figure, 2 feet 5 inches. Measurements of stand: Length, 3 feet; width, 1 foot 8 inches; height, 11 inches. — Burma. (Plate 4, Cat. No. 216130, U.S.N.M.)

<<<Page: 833>>>

5-7. THREE FIGURINES OF BuppHA, representing him in the usual attitudes: Standing or teaching, sitting in meditation, and reclining, or passing into-Nirvana. Bronze. The seated figurine is, like No. 2, incrusted around the forehead with colored stones. Measurements: 13 inches, 104 inches, and 10 inches, respectively. (Plate 5, Cat. Nos. 216127-216129, U.S.N.M.)
8. BUDDHA, SEATED UPON THE LOTUS THRONE, which is supported by two lions, the emblem of the Sakya clan, with the nimbus in form of a fig leaf in the back, and attended by Bodhisattvas and disciples, comprising altogether fifteen figures. Bodhisattvas, in the teaching of the northern or Mahyana schools of Buddhism, are preexistent or future Buddhas. It is the belief of the Buddhists that these teachers of mankind appear upon earth at long intervals and the doctrine which they all proclaim is the same. With each there is a period in which the doctrine flourishes, then a gradual decline, then it is completely overthrown, tilla new deliverer appears and once more establishes the lost truths. The last Buddha of this age of the world after Gautama will be Maitreya, ‘tthe loving one.” The term Bodhisattva is, however, often applied to those Buddhist teachers who distinguished themselves by learning and piety. The Bodhisattvas are usually represented as young men wearing crowns or richly ornamented turbans with a round nimbus and decked with bracelets, necklaces, and breast chains. They are also often provided with some distinguishing emblem or attribute, uch as a lotus, a sword, a small pagoda, a book, ete., and they ride inimals, as lions, elephants, tigers, etc. Made of wood, lacquered and gilded. Inclosed ina black lacquered shrine which is adorned with ornamental bronze clasps and fittings and gilded inside. The doors of the shrine on the inside are painted in colors with figures of V/os or temple guards, which are sometimes placed on both sides of the first portal of a Buddhist temple in Japan. The shrine is said to date from the sixteenth century A. D., and to have come from the Vara temple. Measurements of the shrine: Height, 2 feet 4 inches; width, 2 feet; depth, 1 foot.—Japan. (Plates 6 and 7, Cat. No. 216133, U.S.N.M.)
9. BUDDHA, STANDING IN A SMALL PAGODA and attended on either side by saints seated upon lotuses. The pagoda as well as the lotuses are supported by mythical animals, which rest on an elaborately carved pedestal. Wood, carved, lacquered, and gilded. Inclosed in a black lacquered shrine, the interior of which is gilded. Measurements of the shrine: Height, 125 inches; width, 11 inches; depth, 74 inches.— Japan. (Cat. No. 216134, U.S.N.M.)
10. BuppHa, or A Bopuisartrva, seated upon the lotus throne, which is supported by mythical animals. Wood, carved and gilded. Inclosed in a round shrine, lacquered in antique red, with bronze decorated folding doors, beautifully carved base, and gilded inside.

<<<Page: 834>>>

Measurements: Height,,15 inches; diameter of the base, 64 inches.— Japan. (Cat. No. 216135, U.S.N.M.) :
11. BuppHa, seated upon an hexagonal pedestal, holding in his left hand the alms bowl. Wood, carved and gilded. Inclosed in a black lacquered shrine, the interior of which is gilded. The shrine is said to date from the fifteenth century A. D. and to come from the Temple of Matsuma at Yamato, Japan. Measurements of the shrine: Height, 43 inches; width, 2 inches; depth, 1 inch.—-Japan. Cat. No. 216136, U.S.N.M.)
‘12. Two Buppuist saints (Arhats).—-The term arhat, also arahat, rahat, arhan, and rahan (Sanskrit, arhant), is applied to.those disciples and followers of Buddha who have attained the highest degree of perfection and need not be born again; especially to one of the original five hundred disciples of Buddha. Buddhist temples usually contain numerous images of saints, to whom offerings of flowers, incense, candles, etc., are made. Ofteak. Height, 2feet.—Burma. (Plate 8, Cat. No. 216132, U.S.N.M.)
13. Two BuppHIst MONKS, HOLDING BEGGING BOWLS.—Carved on teak plaques. Buddhist monks shave their heads and wear a yellow robe. They get their living by begging each morning from house to house, when they collect rice and fruit enough for the morning and midday meal, as their rule forbids them eating after midday. ‘The equipment of a Buddhist monk consists of a begging bowl (patra) and fruit bag, a rice spoon, a ewer, or water vessel (wda patra), a staff (pinda), a razor, a sewing needle, and a waistband. Measurements: Height, 2 feet; width, 1 foot 63 inches.—Burma. (Plate 9, Cat. No. 216147, U.S.N.M.)
14. Park OF ORNAMENTAL BEGGING BOWLS.—Carved of wood anc inlaid with pieces of looking-glass. Measurements: Height, 114 inches; diameter, 16 inches.—-Burma. (Plate 10. Cat. No. 216138 U.S.N.M.)
15. BupbpuIsT sAcRED Book.—Written on palm leaves, which are held together between two boards by a cord passed through them. The writing is done by means of a sharp stylus, and then ink is rubbed over so as to make the markings with the stylus visible. The sacred Scriptures of the Buddhists are called the ** Zrip7taka”—i. e., three baskets, because the palm leaves on which they were written were arranged in baskets as receptacles. Others explain the term as symbolical of the transmission of the teachings of Buddha through a long line of teachers and pupils, as baskets are handed on at excavations from workman to workman. The sacred language of the southern school is Pali; of the northern school, Sanskrit. The Buddhist Scriptures are divided into three parts: The Vinaya (‘‘ guidance”) contains all that relates to the Order of Monks; the Sutras (*‘ threads” —i. e., discourse), the exposition and elucidation of the doctrines of Buddhism; and the Abhidharma (expansion, or enlargement of the doctrine), a detailed

<<<Page: 835>>>

discussion of the philosophical basis of the doctrine. Measurements: 16 inches by 24 inches by 13 inches.—Burma. (Plate 11, Cat. No. 916139, U.S.N.M.)
16. PRAYER WHEEL.—Consisting of a metal cylinder through which passes a wooden handle forming its axis. Around this axis a long strip of paper is rolled, inscribed with sacred sentences or invocations. A piece of metal fastened by a string to the cylinder facilitates the turning of it. Prayer wheels are used especially by the Buddhists of Tibet. The most usual invocation inscribed on the rolls in prayer wheels consists of the words: ‘‘Om! Mani padme! Hum!”—i. e., O jewel in the lotus flower! The lotus, which is otherwise the symbol of purity and perfection with Buddhists, is here employed in allusion to Avalokiteshvara, or Padmapani, the present Dhyani-Bodhisattva. In the theology of the northern school of Buddhism each earthly Buddha (ManushiBuddha) has his mystic or spiritual counterpart, or DhyaniBuddha in one of the heavens or the world of forms. Each of the Dhyani-Buddhas again has his Dhyani-Bodhisattva, who, after the passing away or the Nirvana of the human Buddha, becomes his representative on earth until the appearance of a new Buddha. Padmapani is considered as the Dhyani-Bodhisattva of Amitabha, the DhyaniBuddha of Sakhya muni. By the Tibetans he is held in special veneration as the protector and patron of Tibet. He is believed to have appeared on earth from a lotus flower for the deliverance of mankind. The Tibetans believe that his descent and incarnation in the Dalai Lama, the head of Tibetan Buddhism, takes place by the emission of a beam of light.
Each revolution of the cylinder counts as an uttered prayer, provided that the turning is done slowly and from right to left, the latter in order to follow the writing which runs from left to right.
Besides the small hand-prayer wheels, usually measuring from 3 to 5 inches in height and from 2 to 3 inches in diameter, there are some of large size permanently set up near temples and monasteries to be turned by each person passing hy them; or on gables of houses, or over the hearth, where they are twirled by the wind or smoke. Sometimes a wheel is fixed to the bed of a stream and kept in motion by the current, thus praying night and day for the owner. Measurements: Height, 24 inches; diameter, 3 inches.—Burma. (Plate 12, Cat. No. 216140, L.5..N. M:) ;
17. Parr OF TEMPLE LAMPS.—Open fretwork. On the top is the receptacle for oil in shape of a dish, from which fig leaves are suspended. The whole has a kind of aureole as a background and is surmounted by Ganesa, the Hindu god of sagacity with the elephat head, who also found a place in the Tibetan pantheon. Made of bronze. Measurements: Height, 3 feet 9 inches; diameter of the base, 133 inches.—Tibet. (Plate 13, Cat. No. 216141, U.S.N.M.)

<<<Page: 836>>>

18. TEMPLE pRUM.—Mounted on a vase-shaped wooden stand carved, | gilded, and studded with colored stones. Drums or bells are put up in front of Buddhist temples, on which the priests strike to announce the hours of prayer. ‘The worshipers also strike them to invite the presence of the deity. Drums are likewise used in Buddhist worship to accompany the chanting of the priests. Measurements: Height, 2 feet 6 inches; diameters, 145 and 11 inches.—Burma. (Plate 14; Cat. No. 216142, U.S.N.M.)
19. Howpan, OR SADDLE OF THE SACRED Wuatre ELEPHANT.— Carved of wood, and gilded. The rare white elephant, properly of a pale reddish-brown color, with a few white hairs, is considered in East India as a sacred animal. Some Buddhists venerate it as an incarnation of the various Buddhas. Also some Bodhisattvas are represented riding elephants. The elephant is also considered an emblem of royalty, and forms a most imposing feature in every ceremonial procession of an Indian potentate. Measurements: Height, 2 feet 8 inches; length, 4 feet; width, 2 feet 7 inches.—Burma. (Cat. No. 216143, U.S.N.M.)
20. CABINET OF THE Kine or Burma.—Carved open woodwork, gilded and inlaid with pieces of glass. Measurements: Height, 8 feet; length, 3 feet 85 inches; width, 1 foot 11 inches.—Burma. (Cat. No. 216144, U.S.N.M.)
21. SADDLE OF THE Kinc or Burma.-—Covered with red velvet and embroidered in gold. Measurements: Length, 2 feet; width, 1 foot.— Burma. (Cat. No. 216146, U.S.N:M.)
22. Bep OF THE KiNG oF BurMA.—Carved open woodwork, gilded and inlaid with glass pieces. Measurements: Height, 3 feet 1 inch; length, 6 feet 6 inches; width, 3 feet 6inches.—Burma. (Cat. No. 216145, U.S.N.M.)
23. WOODEN CARVED FIGURE HOLDING GONG.—Gongs are used in Buddhist worship to make known the presence of the worshiper, and also as introductory to prayer. Height, 4 feet.—Burma. (Cat. No. 216148, U.S.N.M.)
24. WOODEN CARVED FIGURE.—Height, 16% inches.—Burma. (Cat. No. 216149, U.S.N.M.)
25. KWwANTI, THE CHINESE GOD OF wAR.—Made of wood, lacquered and gilded. Height, 2 feet.—China. (Plate 15, Cat. No. 216150, U.S.N.M.)
26. THE CHINESE GOD OF PEACE.—Made of wood, lacquered and gilded. Height, 2 feet.--China. (Plate 16, Cat. No. 216151, U.S.N.M.)
27. Two JAPANESE PORCELAIN FIGURES.—Represented as seated on rocks, the one holding lotus stalks with a vase at its side, the other with food vessels. Height, 143 inches each.—China. (Plate 17, Cat. Nos. 216152-216153, U.S.N.M.)

<<<Page: 837>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Casanowicz. PEATE 1.

<<<Page: 838>>>



<<<Page: 839>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904,—Casanowicz. PLATE 2.

<<<Page: 840>>>

j roy 1
‘s ‘ q : ; u

<<<Page: 841>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904,—Casanowicz.

<<<Page: 842>>>

— ae ee ' . Vv “ue
=f -;
5 5 y ey => <<
ro naw

<<<Page: 843>>>

Museum, 1904.—Casanowicz.
Nationa
Report of U
2 A9vd 33S 31V1d 40 NOILWNV1dXx3
“ONINITOSY VHaang

<<<Page: 844>>>



<<<Page: 845>>>

“|[pZ J9vd 33S 3LV1d 40 NOILWNW1dx3a HOY
‘VHGGNg 4O SANINNDI4 3SYHL
PrATE SD:
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Casanowicz.

<<<Page: 846>>>

* “ us

<<<Page: 847>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Casanowicz

<<<Page: 848>>>



<<<Page: 849>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904 —Casanowicz. PLATE 7.

<<<Page: 850>>>



<<<Page: 851>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum. 1904.—Casanowicz. PLATE 8.
TWo BUDDHIST SAINTS.

<<<Page: 852>>>



<<<Page: 853>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904 —Casanowicz, PLATE 9.

<<<Page: 854>>>



<<<Page: 855>>>

‘@bZ JDVd JAS JLV1d 4O NOILWNW1dxa HO4
ro) v8 Ee < cil a
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Casano\

<<<Page: 856>>>



<<<Page: 857>>>

04.—Casanowi
Report of U. S. National Museum,
Gey Lg IE
SO RIO oF OE
‘Ohl AOVd JIS 3LW1d 4O NOILYNY1dx3 YOY
“WOOG G3aYOVS LSIHGGNG

<<<Page: 858>>>



<<<Page: 859>>>

Owicz.
Report of U, S. National Museum, 1904.—Casar
“pl JOVd 39S 3LVId JO NOILWNV1dx3 HO4
SSHM YSAVYd

<<<Page: 860>>>



<<<Page: 861>>>

Report of U. S, National Museum, 1504.—Casanowicz. PLATE 13.
ibs fey (avon

<<<Page: 862>>>



<<<Page: 863>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Casanowicz.
‘ t ’
ined Lees
A TEMPLE DRuM.

<<<Page: 864>>>



<<<Page: 865>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Casanowicz. PLATE 15.
THE CHINESE GOD OF War.

<<<Page: 866>>>



<<<Page: 867>>>

1904.—Casanowicz.
Report of U. S. National Museum,
ne a) i

<<<Page: 868>>>



<<<Page: 869>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Casanowicz. AGRE 74
TWo JAPANESE PORCELAIN FIGURES.
ae eee a ®
dni te wveyey’

<<<Page: 870>>>



<<<Page: 871>>>

HEYWOOD WALTER SETON-KARR, Of the British Military Service in Egypt.

<<<Page: 872>>>



<<<Page: 873>>>

By Heyvwoop WALTER Seron-Karr, Of the British Military Service in Egypt.
The province of the Fayum, in which the implements described below were found, consists of a natural leaf-shape depression, surrounded by the Libyan Hills, on the west of the Nile, and about fifty miles southwest of Cairo. The Bah Yusuf (Joseph’s canal) connects the Fayum with the valley of the Nile, and in the northwest end of it is the Lake Birket-el-Kurun (‘** Lake of Horns”). In ancient times Lake Moeris filled nearly the whole depression of. the province, and the present Birket-el-Kurun is considered by some authorities to be its shrunken representative. Here also was the celebrated ‘** Labyrinth.”
The district of the Fayum has yielded a great deal of material for archeological and for historical research in the stricter sense in the form of papyri and the celebrated Hellenistic encaustic portraits.
Lake Birket-el-Kurun is salt, and drinking water has to be carried to the neighborhood on camels. In ancient times the lake water was potable, having been of considerable volume.
The Arabs near Cairo have for some time been selling flint implements of new types from the Fayum; indeed, information came some years ago from Schweinfurth, Sayce, Sturge, and Evans that they had been found there insmall numbers. Latterly H. J. Beadnell published a short paper “ with map and plates. The map was important as showing roughly the supposed limits of the water. An outline is annexed, based on Beadnell’s map, with slight additions regarding implementiferous localities and the ancient border. The implements occur over most parts of the surface above the ancient water level and where the prevailing north wind removes the sand—such as the crests of undulations. For, in some parts the hardened clay of the lake bottom is barred with lines of small sand waves having clear spaces between; stones and implements are on the bare parts, and few, if any, under the sand. They appear to prevent the sand from settling. There is practically nothing on the old lake floor, even where the deposit has been weathered away to the bed-rock, excepting around the border.
«4 Geological Magazine, February, 1903. cs 747

<<<Page: 874>>>

About the year 2200 B. C. Amenemhat I began to bring the periodical inflow from high Nile under control. If a natural lake existed long before, having broken in through the gap during some great flood, its level also must have varied, not only by evaporation but during cycles of low Nile, and also no water might have entered the oasis for years In succession.
The nodules of flint that occur all over this desert are of a tough consistency, small, and very suitable for making arrow points and the distinctive and peculiar Fayum implements. This may be the reason why only two *‘coups-de-poing,” or ‘‘ drift” implements of Chelléen or Acheuléen type were found.
Scale: LU ws <a = \ SS \ = 300.000 aw SS -. 4 ye ew aGN S : NS ae e1 5 \ > s 4 4 SS) ~ Pras \Y S ‘ ¢ HILLS (eocene) ow & A t Se ny ~~ eee X AW Ac ss= 1 a Ay’ , 1° AG NS x W 7 < / ie “a . WW ray =? a 11 \' DAO a \\ > ae f A ‘ SS wh \ QO; <<a : My WW WY My wy \\” "K\\\ U \ Ay ® WOUN AM TN Pe R elk i] ‘ 4
The Fayum Lake Cee, EE BIRKET EL KURUN. ———_—= ELLE
Map OF FAYUM DESERT.
The dotted line shows approximately the shore of the ancient lake; F F, implementiferous spots; R, ruins of Qasr el Sagha.
The implements from the flint mines in the Eastern Desert are of a cherty material, which occurs in masses and nodules of such shape and consistency as to be suitable for making them, and they are found only in that vicinity. Examples may now be seen in most of the museums on the four continents from both these localities, as also of those discovered by the writer in Somaliland. It is indeed probable that peculiar types discovered in different parts of the world have been evolved through the local material. For example, in the paleolithic workshops in the Madras Province of India, which I discovered

<<<Page: 875>>>

with the help of Mr. Bruce Foote and Mr. Macleod, the material in the shape of quartzite nodules is suitable for that type of implement. Specimens of these also are now to be seen in nearly all museums. At Banda (United Provinces of India) were procured numbers of polished axes set up in shrines, ete.
Besides the implements shown in the accompanying plates, there were found in the Fayum disks about 10 centimeters in diameter, and scrapers, the paleolithic ‘* racloir” of de Mortillet’s Le Préhistorique.@
The implements here figured are soon likely to become dispersed by presentation among different museums. The number discovered was very large, as areas of surface were laid off systematically and many Arabs were employed. They are remarkably quick at finding small objects in the sand. The selection is therefore more or less repre: sentative.
There are also two types not figured and peculiar to the Fayum, all the specimens of both series having been presented to the Cairo Museum.
The first is an unsightly, irregulariy shaped, flat knife, pointed at both ends, rather rough, and with concave angles for fish-scaling. Not uncommon.
The second is a flat knife of a round and sometimes of an oval shape, but having somewhere in its circumference a well-marked, carefully worked, re-entrant angle or concave edge. The shape varies so much that a complete representative series would be out of the question. Figs. 124, 125, 127, 128, 129, partly resemble them.
Many of the implements figured resemble some of de Mortillet’s and are classified as later paleoliths of the Solutréen epoch, corresponding to the Laugerie-Haute epoch of Evans—the apogee in the making of stone implements, as de Mortillet remarks. The color of the material varies greatly.
In addition to the publications mentioned, consult:
J. pE Moraan, Recherches sur les origines de |’ Egypte: L’age de Ja pierre et les metaux, Paris 1896, pages 72-76.
GRENFELL, Hunt, and Hocarra, Fayum towns and their papyri, London, 1900. Publication of the Egypt Exploration Fund. The introduction discusses the ancient geography of the Fayum in the relation of Lake Moeris to Bahr Yusuf in particular.
Lixant Bey, Memoire sur le lac Moeris, 1843.
R. H. Brown, The Fayum and Lake Moeris, 1892.
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES. PrarEe 1.
Thin knives, some of unusual narrowness, finely worked by compression on both sides. Nos. 1, 2, 7, 8, 9 have for their bases the natural outside of the stone; No. 10 is beautifully flaked by compression.
@ Edition of 1900, p. 170,

<<<Page: 876>>>

Arrowheads, many of new anu nitherto unknown types. Nearly all are exquisitely worked along the edges. No. 27 was found with 19 similar ones in a heap, partly covered by blown sand and may be the contents of the same quiver. Nos. 27; 28, 29 are about one-fourth inch in thickness, and are of a light pink color.
Further types of arrows of unusually large size and varied shapes. Some resem-
ble examples from Ireland.
Nos. 97 to 107 are additional types of arrows. No. 107 must be compared with the Solutréen javelin heads or ‘‘Pointes 4 cran’’ figured in Le Préhistorique (p. 181) and with those in Plates 7 and 8. Nos. 108 and 109 are of crystal, the only examples not included in my discovery. They are in the Cairo Museum.
Nos. 112, 114, 116, 117, 120 are flat on the underside and show the conchoidal fracture or bulb of percussion. The rest are worked on both sides; having a natural butt end, however, they might resemble de Mortillet’s Mousterian or middle-paleolithic pointes 4 main (p. 163). 3
No. 122 is one of a large number of bent flakes, polished and worked to a scraping edge on one side and peculiar to the Fayum. Nos. 123, 125, 126 another Fayum type. They resemble adze blades for working wood and hollowing out trees for canoes. Nos. 124, 125, 127, 128, 129 are knives with a cutting edge all round and an angle for scraping ‘‘grattoirs concaves.’”’ No. 130 exactly resembles de Mortillet’s ‘*double grattoir Solutréen’’ in the Musée de Saint Germain. These are not exclusively paleolithic. Eyans figures one from Bridlington. No. 131 is one of two implements found which resemble a gravel-drift paleolith.
IRAE ee
These implements resemble the ‘‘ pointes en feuille de laurier’’ figured in Le Preé-
historique on pages 181, 627, and 629. They belong to the later paleoliths or Solutréen epoch. These forms drift insensibly into the ‘‘Pointes en feuille de saule”’ and ‘‘pointes Acran’’ of thesame epoch. Nos. 159 and 160 resemble the remarkable crescent-shaped implements on Plate 8, but are straight.
PuaTe 8.
Nos. 172, 173, large crescent-snaped ‘‘pointes a cran,’’ use unknown. No. 1781s a
‘lame pointue.’’ Nos. 174 to 183 are peculiar Fayum arrowheads or javelin heads called ‘‘ pointes 4 cran’’ and are somewhat waterworn and polished by friction and use. No. 184 in Plate 8 to 198 on Plate 9 are saws, now thought by M. Maspero and others to have been fixed in wooden handles like a sickle. Some are not toothed, and No. 191 is a rare form. No, 182 is a saw, not toothed, but probably equally effective.
Figures 194 to 198 are the continuation of the series of saws snown on Plate 8. No. 198 strongly resembles the implement on Plate 11 (No. 246), but the latter 1s very ‘arefully worked and not tovthed. Nos. 199 and 200 are implements purchased from Arabs and were apparently reworked by them to present a more salable appear

<<<Page: 877>>>

FLINT IMPLEMENTS OF THE FAYUM. (ol
ance. The patination, which is sometimes extraordinary, proves their antiquity. Nos. 201 to 213, whether arrow or javelin heads, are of rare, varied, and practically unfamiliar types. No. 214 is unique.
These are large and remarkable forms of arrows.
PLatTE 11.
Nos. 237 and 238 are rare forms, of which one example was found and figured by Beadnell. No. 239 is unique and is perhaps a ‘‘grattoir,’? combined with a borer, like the ‘‘poingon Solutréen,’’ Nos. 243, 244, 245 are butt ends of similarones. Nos. 241 and 242 are somewhat similar to each other, and have therefore been placed together. They were probably used for boring wood, as the cutting edge is worked cnly on one side. No. 240 has the concave part at the end very carefully worked. Nos. 246 and 249 are flakes beautifully worked into knives. Larger examples of these, struck off asa single flake from the block and delicately serrated, are shown in the Cairo Museum. No. 250 is a knife with rounded ends.
An example of No. 251 was found and figured by Beadnell in the publication previously referred to. No. 252 is a portion of a long serrated spearhead. No. 253 consists of parts of an armlet, similar to those discovered in Wadi esh-Sheikh, and figured in the Liverpool Museum Bulletin, as well as in Read’s Guide to the Stone Age, published by the British Museum. Another example may be found in the Cairo Museum. No. 256 is a spearhead, finely worked in purple flint with white patinations. No. 257 is the same. No. 258 resembles the implements on Plate 11, but is flat on the underside, as also is No. 254. No. 259 was picked up under a large rock by a Berber boy. M. Maspero says that these are now regarded as sacrificial knives, and they are so labeled in the Cairo Museum. The serrations pointing forward to keep the handle in place, are especially to be noted.

<<<Page: 878>>>



<<<Page: 879>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 91 904.—Seton-Karr. PLATE 1.
2 inches
FoR EXPLANATION OF PLATE SEE PAGE 749.

<<<Page: 880>>>



<<<Page: 881>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr, PLATE 2,
2 inches
? oe / 22 a 27
28 29

<<<Page: 882>>>



<<<Page: 883>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr. PLATE 3.
2 inches

<<<Page: 884>>>



<<<Page: 885>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr. 2 inches
ne Th) a 1} 2 80 81
sdlaB4) i : eeu RR MY
2018 1 Parana

<<<Page: 886>>>



<<<Page: 887>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr. PLaTeE 5.

<<<Page: 888>>>



<<<Page: 889>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.— Seton-Karr. PLATE 6
2 inches

<<<Page: 890>>>

‘ a 7 = oy
oh. ee,
to oa
“ee Pp ’

<<<Page: 891>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr PLATE 7.
~ 140 141 142 143
OLou0ub008%
165 166 167 168 “169 ‘170

<<<Page: 892>>>

Cian > hanee ? Pies
oa 4 In y ox | | t fen 8 4 | te . ; sy Ft ei . tr / , ert oer ‘ a ro NF $.

<<<Page: 893>>>

Report of U. S, National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr. PLATE 8.
2 inches
188 193

<<<Page: 894>>>



<<<Page: 895>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr. PLATE 9.
2 inches pe | NEE NO LING: Ss : 196 195 me 197 198

<<<Page: 896>>>



<<<Page: 897>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904,—Seton-Karr. PLATE 10.
2 inches

<<<Page: 898>>>



<<<Page: 899>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr. PLATE 11.
2 inches

<<<Page: 900>>>



<<<Page: 901>>>

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1904.—Seton-Karr.
ra")
2 inches

<<<Page: 902>>>



<<<Page: 903>>>

Page Abbott, William L., collection, number of specimens in_..............-.----60 donations by, of zoological material continued __ ~~~ ---28, 77 ethnological collections received from__.....-------26, 70, 80 field work in Sumatra continued bv-.......---.-.-----45 CCESSIONG LO LO ol Call eres peter ee eerie ees ae Se So St eects es 28, 79 eae es cae Seen os SERS SeoS SEe Oe pees aoe ee 31 TTATI SE UATIMM Ste tear ees ewe ek ee SN A el ina At ee 107 received annually since 1881, table showing number-..--. -----33 SOWING NS Ol G8 ass See BAO Ee SS pe a Ret eer See erat 25 Acquisitions to Museum as a result of the war with Spain__-----.-.--------65 Act of Congress, 1846, founding Smithsonian Institution --.-....-..----.---3 Acting head curator, Department of Anthropology, attention called by, to MeCasorshelpuuitde veLal ivisiONse oo)! 2. Sees Rem sce Hat ewes 72 NG GitionsplopinescOlechonstee mera. mem alsa eee an ee ers Se eee a ais sana 25 Adler, Cyrus, honorary assistant curator, Division of Historic Archeology.... 105 honorary curator, Division of Historic Religions. .......-----55, 105 lille a nett ae SAIN am NGS eo re 3 oe eis es Osea ee 106 Administrative assistant, U.S. National Museum-_.-.......:..-..-.--.---.--105 SLICE eh Ne a oN Na ae pene a ra an a ege oP 107 Agriculture, Department of, Biological Survey, collection of birds’ eggs and reptiles transmitted by... -29 collection of Mexican freshwater crabs received from. 30 botanical accessions received from ..--.---.----30 natural history bureaus of, collections made by 45 specimens of insects received from.......------30, 85 Albany Museum, Grahamstown, South Africa, exchange received from. ----46 Allens Je Aq. Specimens|sentitor examination (0) 22 65-2222--=45--2---2ese 3s Allen, Richard A., appointed preparator in Department of Anthropology ---7 Allison; Andrew, collectine outfit supplied to 22... 2.2-2225-.. So. 5-2-2 tes. 45 American Ethnology, Bureau of, cooperation with........---.-------------34 American Geology, Contributions to the History of, by George P. Merrill... -189 American Museum of Natural History, exchange received from. ...-.-----29, 70, 82 American Oriental Society, annual meeting of, held in lecture hall.......-.-.-49 American Ornithologists’ Union, committee on nomenclature, bird collection CE Gye sy UI Ste |S ON Gs ce gp tc ipe PNA ne eg eR Re er ee Op ee 40 Americanicit © onpress of delegate ts) 2525-2 2Sais o-Se ese e ese eee ae 55 Auness Ol Keds nechmens olmonrenidss| Ounedstoee aaaaseee ses eee see ae 43, 90 Anderson, E. M., collection of lepidoptera presented to Museum by-.--------30, 84
1As an index to Dr. G. P. Merrill’s paper, Contributions to the History of American Geology (this volume, pp. 189-734), was specially prepared by its author and appears at the close of his paper (pp. 717-734), the titles in that paper are omitted in this index.

<<<Page: 904>>>

Page. Andrews, Wells F., Division of Ethnology consulted by.......22...--------Tis
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for 1901, published........---157
1902; published 2=_ 2222222 157
U; S: Natioual Museum, scope... 25° oa Se ee eee ll when first printed as a separate vol-
: ume of Smithsonian Report... -11
Anthropology, Department of, changes in the organization of.............--74
colllections,care: Of. 2s. Se as ae ee 66
exhibition and study series ..-.....-.2...-.-. 68
collectioning ee 36
explorations/x2 2 i2..¢sstdesee eee 66
PIltS. tO; MUSEUM OL 7 24. 4s: 2 ee ee 61
inside storage employed in .... .:../....---2. 34
installation... Gia be ee eer 68
models made under the supervision of. ......69
plans for future development ............-2.12
POliCy Ol Sta Ss eee eee eee bo t2
purchases by sssi2c2 ce Skee eee 08
report of acting head curator on......-...---=o
researches: 2 Ss a2 230 5. sae eee 38, 70
specimens acquired by, through exchange... 64
total number of specimens added to ........-26
transiers‘and) loanssby—.225 28s ee ee 64
usefulness Of: ./} Pater ok eee eee et 70
VISIIMOIM VES ator siiO aaa eee 39
work accomplished in laboratories of. ._....-3B4
ob: thesy@ar 2 s25. 2 3 eee 61
Appending) (222-60 4u. SYS ao a ee 105
IL 3. ete eet eds So re erg a 107
IE oie Daehn integer hs es eine eke ee he 157
DV: SS GOS Ae A ah ie 185
to reportior 1901, papers contained im: | 2. 42 ee 50
1902; papers contained sinks) eee ee eee 50
Appropriation, special, for construction of new National Museum building. . >. 21
Appropriations andrexpenditires< 250.225 SS 2] for fiscal year ending June 30, 1904, table
Showing Saces7/4 2622 8 ee es 21
for fiscal year ending June 30, 1905, table showing ->=..-..-.Ze
Arabs, quickness of, in finding flint implements in the sand .........-...---749
Archeological collection purchased! .22 245 ae oe . 26
objects obtained by Dr. Fewkes transferred to the Museum .... 27
Archeology; Accessionsuin= 35.4. e ee eee ee eee ee 63, 64
Army Medical Museum, cooperation of 2.222: 5-522 e4-s 5 eee ee ee 53 specimens for division of physical anthropology trans-
férredsfrom...222e tee es oe ee 27, 65
School, United States, closing exercises of, held in lecture hall. 48
Arnold, Ralph, Pacific coast pectinide studied by ...................2:.-..41, 90
title and notice of paper bys--e.. 2 a. ae SSS Saas 161
Ashmed, William H., assistant curator, Division of Insects ......_....._____105
classification of hymenoptera continued by.......----4]
Classification of the Chalcid flies, published by... ._..41
generic revision of the hymenoptera published by ..... 41
in charge, Section of Hymenoptera...........-..----105

<<<Page: 905>>>

Page Ashmed, William H., Japanese and Philippine hymenoptera worked up by-.41 Wa peLcmDNapluOliebed says. = fut eae 41,93 titles and notices of papers by .......-..2....--161, 162, 163 Assistant Secretary, in charge of the U. S. National Museum _.............-105 OOM NsonianelnsiibuUtOmes. oes 52 ok, ee Ne ee 3, 105 Pwater ikl or jamie parchasedi irom. =... 2.2. eee ee scce bee -ee81 Loran Oibbecrapmy mist Oberst 26. le BO Um Pape. la Eee colleet me Ouhbtnstppled Ok. «<< nc ss 22a ska Sees ce ook 45 Bailey, Vernon, bird icollections consulted: by <....=....-.. 22... -.-sscceee-ee 90 collection of plants made in New Mexico by...........----30, 85 reptiles from Texas identified by, in conjunction with Leonhard Stejneger ..............40, 90 paper on the reptilesiauna of Texas by..-)...--.-.-.-..e222 81 IBY VIiRO La sfSy OSUACEXS IO dey ENGI MT IML EETS ICO) tye eae yy os ee 4 Baker, Carl F., collection of diptera presented by -.........-....-.-...----84 iitLerandanoticerol papers Dyimes cs 2. si esee 2 a eee ene ee eee 163 bakerphranke collechinexonbitysuppled tome ssh .6 s.55. 025. e225 nese eee 45 Baltimore Geographical Society, specimens obtained as the result of the expeGUAGE OATTE LOR el GSN ot ee ease ee aN re pee Oe Se 29 Banda (United Provinces of India) flint implements procured in..........-749 bares, Outram, specimens of mammals sent to ...2.-.252.--.2e.se0-8<----240 HGRA ANNO CGE WOmpapel Wives ote esse > sca we ee ee ee 163 Banks, Nathan, custodian Section of Arachnida ._...--et Sate eens 28 he 106 WAP OLSEDUUOUISING Cis ln viee nee ee oe Se ee ee ee ee 41 TESCALC HES CONCUGtEC pO Meer sve tae See ees eee 4] 2 HitLestanGde not GestOl papers: Divs eee see: eee 6 sane nee 163 Barlow, J. W., specimens of birds’ eggs presented by.---..---:-.-----------29, 82 Bartlett, S. P., collecting outfit supplied to.--....--..----Pee ee eee 45 Bartsch, Paul, account of the herons living in the District of Columbia by.... 41,93 iG aD NASTOTEO la VROUNISKS = eee aera ee eee ae 105 descriptions of new species of scissurella and sonorella pub[ns is oUlslavaers err ae eet Seen eee mre CI ae en er 41,93 NOESY Oh MO aPe Se) ON peat e Peete ae Os cae ye eet SE Sree tee 41,93 [ol oliCern MONS) ON Ree Eee nes ees otae oe eee eae ere ae 93 files motice Or jointspaper Wy s.--=.4.ck.5--522 --520s 168, 169 liilestandenotlcesiot:papersabiaq-ses = eens eek wee 163 work on the family pyramidellidee continued by...-.-.------41,93 Bassler, R. S., researches on the Rochester shale bryozoa continued by ---44,104 RESTA GLO MOL ee hee ee ae eee ee eee See eae Sa eter ae wee 56, 104 HibLeraNnG novice Ol TOIMtpApeLi Oyen ss ee neee anes aac see 182 Batu era hpAeesSU OO CShIO MM yaa en sees oe aise oe ee eer see ee mie om See 16 eddie laine eeeneteren Ce, tOupaperiWy.-aa5sos22 c-sace seceea eae esehoeeece 747 Bean, Barton-A., assistant curator, Division of Fishes..-........-...-.------105 Beaufort, North Carolina, visited by --..-----.-----------79 expedition to the Bahamas accompanied by --.--------29, 44, 79 fishes from the Bahama Islands reported on by ....-.-.----40, 92 notes on material from North Carolina and the Barbados jOUA EY OPT EO le JONG A estan RE en ae etree age Ge ee ear oe 40, 93 specimens obtained by the Senff expedition identitied by... 40,93 SILESAN CUM OLICES OL mpapers Oye eecee a eas | e5 cose c see ee 164 zoological collection in the Bahama Islands, made by .----81 Bean, Tarleton H., honorary curator, Division of Fishes .--.-.---.---.-----105
Beckwith, Paul, assistant curator, Division of History....-.-.-.-----------DO LOS

<<<Page: 906>>>

Page.
Beckwith, Paul, card catalogue of the swords in the National Museum prepared > Dy SEoRS see Ook ay soe? cE TE Set cele et a 10 catalogue of ancient coins begun by ...........--...-..-..-38, 70 descriptive catalogue of the Grant relics in Museum begun by. 38, 70 flintlock-pistol presented! by Sse 2. oY kee 22 oe eee 28, 62
. time spent by,at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition examining anthropological collections 2225.2 -5-=— -— 54a ee eee 66 Beecher, C.-E., specimens of Hamilton brachiopods received as a gift through 99 Bemis, Mlorence E., title andmoticeorpapen Dy. 4. sass ose ssa eee 164 Benedict, James E., assistant curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates -..-106 descriptions of new albuneids by, published .........._. 42,94 designated to act temporarily as chief of exhibits .----.94 revision of the genus lepidopa by, published. .-....----42,93 studies on anomouran crustaceans continued by..-..----42, 94 titles‘and: notices:of papers by*.-2 -cr = eee eee 164 Benjamin, Marcus; editor-2-422. 3. sh see fe So eo eee ee ee 106 title;and moticesofipaper bys-sec oe eee oe oe, TGA Berger; A., material received in’ exchange from .+ 2. 22==----224.4 eee eee 47 Berry,.:, W.; tossil plants studied(by 22.22. 2. 55-2220) ee eee 44, 103 Bibliography, Hhnt implementsiot the Haymes == see see ee eee 749 National: Museum 32.28. 252 UAE. ee eee 157 number of authors represented in_-.-..---51, 183 total number of papers cited in .....:2. 2-2-2 51 Biological Society of Washington, lectures given under auspices of -...-...--48 Survey, Department of Agriculture, bird collection consulted by ..40 birds’ eggs and reptiles trans.
mitted) byes ee pees 29, 81
collection of Mexican freshwater crabs received from_.30, 84
collections made by ......-.-. 45
members of, specimens of mamMCMC Ws ao otc ok cece 40 Biology, Department ofvaccessiongin: a2 sss see eee e ee eee eee eee eee 79 birds 3.5) ee. seh ee a ee es 82 binds’ neg pis as ee Sse eee eee 81 fishes 2As. 44 2S SASS oo See ee 82 herbarium 222 Uae. ees Po eee 28 insects? Le eee oe See ee 28 lowerdnvertebrates== pees eee 83 molluiske*22¢5.' 5.52228 sooo eee 79 plants 2.23 2S 4 See ee ee 85 reptiles. 3. eae ee ee a eee 82 botanical specimens received, number of......-.----thi cooperation of specialists and loan of collections. ---89 crowdaded. Condiiloniines== se ==eee eee eee ee 78 distribution otsurplustaterialee=s—eseeeeeeeeee eae 90 exhibition’ collectionses— ses eees == eee ee 78 explorations) vss sc. 5352 SS eee 79 LMpPOKtantinivesticatlons rine = see see ee ae 38 improvement made in collections of.--.......:----30 INCrease) iM aAcCCessiONS a4. ee eee ee eee 77 laboratory use of the collections by investigators 90

<<<Page: 907>>>

INDEX. (aye
Page.
tology, Wepartmentor aumDber Ohaceessions).2-202... 22 cece a ntloe "28
Rete ithe: Ween fren Se Nova tes SSO Ge Nea Sate ete 94
Te pono lMmNeacscurator ON A=. 20. 62a 322 Citi
scientific researches and investigations. _..........-.39, 91
total number of specimens added to.__.........---26
work<ot hscalyear 1903—4 * . 22st se eect neckeee ii
GIAO WCORIOCRS sa hme atk Lo oe ee ere. Fa 86
| Oana C=} as Oe a a ge eg dec ae ate te 86
binds pep rete. at at evn. 6 eis pee oe 86
fiShes here Se ace 5 eee 87
WASOCES aoe a okoa Oe oe Se ee 87
MN TNA Sap pares ene ee chet 86
marine invertebrates.........--88
MIG MUSES Fs Siam care ee See nae 87
National Herbarium...-.....-.-88
reptiles and batrachians-.-.-.---86
zoological specimens received, number of ....------ch
BIND ini SiO MnOlrd CCCSSIOMNS aa sae nea Lis epee eet oe Sis ee Sores icles $2
overcrowded quarters and lack of assistance in-....---.--86
specimens obtained by exchange_-.-.-.---..--...-..=.--82
WOT ROMO Me SIG VS ORleS mere ee eee WS Oe es oe eek .86
Int MOP ACCCESIONGe 4a ae oa aes ane SS eee ERT kL ee oe = £8)
collecionior, MuUEh iM proved ass.-sece< oo cn ee ane eee eae one 86
Blackwelder; Eliot, collecting outfit supplied to’ <..:22... -5. 222+. 4-22255 46
collecthonsotoinds consultedGiyass= seen ee oe eae 40
Blaisdell, F. E., specimens of coleoptera loaned to....---------------------42,89
Blaney, Dwight, series of shells donated, by ..-....----.-Ses ate eee ee 29, 83
Bohm, Julius, material obtained in exchange from -..-.-.---.--.--.---.---47
Boston Museum of Fine Arts, casts donated by and purchased from the....-27 Botanical staff, Department of Agriculture, collections in division of plants
CONSUME Wyss ee pers are ie eae aE eect Ret eee ern are ati Ne Sas Pe 43
Bomdishy ries. civleand nowee of paper by 222s-a2-.2-2+--+. =< 222-252 = 2 = 164
Branch, H. Selwyn, collection of bats and birds purchased from .....-..----81
Brezina, D. Aristides, material obtained in exchange from .....--.--------.47
Bricefio, M. 8., purchases in Department of Biology from .....----..-------81
British Museum of Natural History, exchange received from ...-..---------46, 82
Britton, N. L., investigations conducted by in conjunction with J. N. Rose ---43
bled en Oc Ceol Oint paper Dy sac ses sete oe ae ee eee 164
Brockett, Lauls custodians Division of Graphic Arts=s2s5-2]-22425-22255. 75, 105
plans of, to enlarge the study series in graphic arts ---------73
Brockway. Williamscollectineyvoutht supplieditos5242 a2s----25244-22 525 46
Brown, E. J., reptiles of southern Florida presented by. -----.-------------29
Brown, Gen. Jacob, sword belonging to, presented by Nathan Brown Chase.27, 62
Brown, Mrs. John Crosby, specimens acquired through exchange with ----.. 64
IBTOWorN a Craceresrolapirds: donatedibysesaseta aes cose ceac ee a eee 29, 82
IBsROR Wakes (Ch. Teteaks| nee) 0 cla eae te PUN ane pe oa rs Feige tl ee ete ee 2 106
Browne, Cecil Seymour, material obtained in exchange from-.--------------47
iBbrues; Ci rcoliectionjor dapteraspresentedi by a2 == ss. 45-26 eo. soe eee 84
Bud ditavOnma pod hisativascesculptlomeOkee sees =e 2 eee ee ee 741
BE CMMI OM CLES ClO LOMO leery ae ee Sa BP rs ae ee ee er 740
Scatedmuponea Lous escrip ion Olas. 28 sets an oes cee ne oes 740
ThewWotis| tironey CescHiphlon Olec== =5-— see s= ses a =se aa 741
SIGH CaM eC batd OAC ESCH ELON Ole sm sea eee sae re ee 740

<<<Page: 908>>>

: Page Buddha standing in a small pagoda, description of.........-ea Ser Se + Sve 741 on the lotus,-deseription of 22.12.22 See eee 740 threefigures of, deseription: obs Sse a Jas eee ee ee 741 doctrines: (Dhamma) tea eso Se ae ee eer eee ee 738 Buddhism,. history of the:spread. off2e.52 = 20 14-65. ee 739 i the founder/of een 5.58% 2200S sion BE See eee iBAbrelsloutsrrcgorenvooymuonlaye (SEINE) Soe hoes eon toes see ecasie osha n see == 739 monks, two, holding begging bowls, description of ..-....--.-...-742 Religious Art in the National Museum, the 8.8. Howland Collection of, by: lmmoamiell-M> CasanowicZess 222 on 4 see 735 the. collectionvol. 20. -k 2 hee ae ee eee 740 sacredsunook. (Gescrip ti Onyo ltrs sees a a= eee ee eee 742 saints, two; deseription0l f3-.-. = 2.2 sce ee ee 742 BOW hee es Rea en pe oe seco ao Ses Sosa So SoS ue DoosS Ges Sec SnSseosecceamscs 22 Bulletin, special, No: 4, Part Tl spublished: 2-224) ars oe ee 49 Bureau of American Ethnology, cooperation with .-....-....-.-..-----.---3 masks and castings of Indians made at the CXPENSCiOL 22s es} Sata ee ee ea eee 70 objects collected by E. H. Jacobs deposited in. Museumuby.ceo! aes ates eee 27 Pishernies: material tramsmaiteduloiy sees ee 28, 80 Ordnance, collection of firearms deposited by -..........-..-.---iaue2s Burra Ds collectimexourrhitys trp pled to meee ee 45 Busck, August, title and notice of paper by =~ 225.22 24-225 > eee 164 Cairo Museum, specimens of flint implements presented to ........-.-------749 Calman, W. T., collection of cumacea forwarded to, for study -...---.------42, 89 Card catalogues of entire mineralogical and geological collections in course of prepatation)<s82" G28 oo sase S Sedee ee see yee a OE ee cleaeoe rene eee eee 36 Carnegie Institution, -specimens of polistes lent to..-.4.22--.2--2-ese see 42 Carnegie Museum, party sent to British Columbia by......:.-----.---------45 Casanowicz, Immanuel M., aid, Division of Historic Archeology.-.....-...-105 paper by, in Report of National Museum for 1904. 735 title and notice ot papemD yee see sees 164 Cases made during the year; numberof: 5]. 225622 S622 ee eee 24 Casey, Thomas L., pleurotomide studied by) 2. --22 5. =-2-2 == = 225s 41,91 Casts purchased for Department of Anthropology. -.....--..-.--------------64 Catlin, George, painting of, loaned by Mrs. L. C. Kinney ......--.-.-.-----Dik Caudell, Andrew Nelson, insects collected by-2-2-2222 s-=s25----saeco sae 28 papers) pulblisheds bys ses= esas fn eae eee 41, 93 title and notice of joint paper by 22. 22e2e2s seeee 170 titles'and noticesiot papers) Dyes -sesee eee 164, 165 Chamberlain, L. T., collection of river mussels presented by .--------------30, 83 ChamiberlaimieRa Vc.varac laminae ys tule cli koiy seyret ene 41 honorary custodian of Gems and Precious Stones, Division of Mineralogy -sa225/ 22 ee See 106 Champney, Mrs. J. Wells, information regarding the Abenaki tribe collected Dy. 5.) eee ee Se ee EP Re ES Rely MRT ee oS Ses cc 39 Chapman, Frank M., bird collection consulted by -------------eae eee 40 title and: noticé’of paper’ by: = = -i2.. 22 5) ==: see 164 Chase, Nathan Brown, sword presented to Gen. Jacob Brown donated by-.. 27 Chevallier, L., material received in exchange from -..-..---..-------------47 Chinesé ‘cod of peacem description of 22 ee 3 ae) a ee eee ee eee eee 744 war, description oli. 22 ho Oe i ee ee ee 744
Clark, A. Howard, honorary curator, Division of History -..-..--.---------105
én ania vi eile:

<<<Page: 909>>>

Page MAUS StineanG NOWMCe OL paper by <i... .......--...-eseeede ee oe 165 Clark, Hubert Lyman, the apodal holothurians studied by ................-42 Sirk aW-.b., matenalion stmoy loaned tos!..-22.2.... 5.2... e2k ek 44,102 Clarke, F..W., honorary curator, Division of Mineralogy.................--106 Glarke. JohneM smarerialion study loaned toss. =... -L22..2. B22 llskc ene. 44, 102 Clarke, Samuel Fessenden, title and notice of paper by...............-..--165 Classification of the scientific departments of the Museum, changes in...._.-55 Gockerelle DAs collectionrotlepidoptera drome. 52-.625..-.2...---2-2--. 30, 84 Cole, Leon J., specimens of pycnogonide sent to...............2-22--------43, 89 fileandenaticeroipaper Py s.<22.2-2. .0s6.0----.2.2e.de0 eke 165 Collection, The S$. S. Howland, of Buddhist Religious Art in the National ialtotsreri nates ovaal hunitav'-eh aonb kel bps) (Bal GE YSteh 6a) 7a GY 7p ek ec 735 fenliectons. EMG KOMMMIOVOS (RO) SESS Dee oe See ee ee ea yee a Se 25 biological, laboratory use of, by investigators .............5.--.90 Depaxrtment.of Anthropology, careiot:2s2: 222222 2225. S52. 67 J BMUGIIOEN 21S Be a es Si a Aa ee ee gS A 78 Geolocyespresent conditionOfsss-2 5-2 222 secon. 103 GVA SI OUEO LE TnNLONGWOSSEMESSer on a enn: Se ete se 15 exhibition, Department of Anthropology -.......--.--.-.------36 IS TOL OO yaere terres seen tee GY Clete ay Sah ee 37, 78 PENeLAl aOLRGUpPONstN Cee emer Reem atc mek ee eee 33 loan of, and cooperation of specialists, Department of Biology. _89 Ole MUST AR NU Kat@ leer ere ee ess Gh yey rea ice Ohl Fao Dy 9 utiizedstosulllesitextenties-ee deme. sooo anaes ae oe AL ¢/ poUrcipalesommecs ohIsnMIMaATIZed Sela. eee nk 8 pUbliC. Tequircmrenis, @ither *heaso 6 /e Ao aoe Yok eek Sa el eld: 16 rapid growth of, resulting in confusion of arrangement. .-.-.----13 "SURES STR OHSLELS VO'S Oe Cae Seite pup ka eet ea Re 16 third division of, suggested i F. A. Bather, of British Museum. 16 Committee on Nomenclature of the American Ornithologists’ Union, bird colHE GION SGONSULLECR NEE egies tae aoe ee ne eae ee So a ee 40 Congress, erection of additional building for National Museum authorized by. 12 DipAe MeAMste a Gelemabe toss fi hace eee een eee oS hele 55 Contributions to the History of American Geology, by George P. Merrill... -189 list of illustrations ..-.... 201 prefatory note .< 25.22.25: 191 table of contents -.......-. 193 Sos Osh. custodian, Sectionol Myriapoda S22 o202 05. bse 2 22 25558 2632 105 honorary assistant curator, Section of Cryptogamic Collections.. 106 Cookeswe Wierd: collectionsiconsultted! by=cis=2 s--2 Ga. 2 -o5 soe ee eaece 90 Cooperation of specialists and loan of collections, Department of Biology ~~... 89 the Executive Departments of the Government ......-.-----583 Coquillett, Daniel W., custodian, Section of Diptera ...................-...106 Papers puplshed Joye nso Sesto aoe a 2 ee ae 41,93 RESCALCH ESD Wore eo Sse eee eer cis cee ee oe 41 : titlesand noticesiof papers! byes. s.225-5-2--.---2-— 165, 166 (OERTes POMC en Ce ae ape eee ee ot keen 2 = eee Ee eS 7,49 Court, Ew J. > series. of land:shells contributed by=.-2.2.22... 24.2 22n220-2-29, 83 Souter, He alpheidce worked -up Wy a2... 5-0. S.045) {ik eck Seis cx S22 5282 42 Coville, Frederick Vernon, honorary curator, Division of Plants (National é Een Daun ro ee ake Prey en a eS hee eae 106
investigation carried on in the National HerbaRiUUMrsropOnkedub yi nse = Hoa kd oes eee 91

<<<Page: 910>>>

Page
Coville, Frederick Vernon, papers published by..........-:-.----.-------43, 50 report of work done in National Bana DYsc 88 title and notice of paper by =. 2252222226 Seen 166
Cranford Paving Company of Washington, contract for excavation for new Museum: building awarded to..2:.22:22222422552 hea eae eee ee eee 13 Culin; Stewart; specimensiloaned) tos< > 3252 --c oo oe eee ee ee ems a ares Currie, Rolla Patterson> aid; Division of Imsects\=22 25222-42224. eee 105 insects collected! by) 25..452) Seuseee os ee 28 member of a party sent to British Columbia -.----_45 papers: publishedi by. 222 5o2 st eae eee 41,98 severed connection with the Museum_...........--50 titles/ands notices) ofspapersiy -sasee es sae eee 166 transfer of, to the Department of Agriculture. _..__-95
Dall, William Healey, associate curator, Cenozoic Section of Invertebrate Fossils. 106 classification of the tritons and trogshells completed by. 41, 93
honorary curator, Division of Mollusks......--------.-105 material gathered and worked up by ..--..----..---ee 99 publications by, conjointly with Mr. Paul Bartsch ----“ 93 on mollusks"Dy,.22 22sec eee 93
review of the land and fresh-water mollusks of Alaska beputiby {22-2 s fcec ons een: See a ee ee eee 41, 98
reviews of the nomenclature of the pupacea completed by41, 93 summary of the recent and fossil land-shell fauna of the
Bahamas conipleted ‘by 3. 222... 2sent ee ee ee 41,93 titles and notices of papers by -.-.---------166, 167, 168, 169 work by, on invertebrate fossils............-...-------31
Daughters of the American Revolution, case of historical specimens belonging to, sent to Louisiana Purchase Expo-
SItON:..320..(Ssc eat ee eee 72 cases arranged and labeled for contributions irom) 2222 -ees-2 eeee 69 interest manifested in historic collecWOME Nios sascaccsc (iinet pecs 69 Davenport, Charles B., title and notice of paper by ......---.-------------:-109 Davenport, Homer, pheasants donated by2.2... =. .-24242-o--— eeeee 29, 82 Davis. Cy A., shells donated by 2-22 222 cee es oes nae ee eee 30, 83 Derby, O. A., specimen of diamond-bearing gravel from ........-.-.-------31,98 Deschamps, Emile, invertebrates from Shanghai procured from......-------84 specimen of mouse deer purchased from. ....-..--------29, 82 Disbrow, William 8., collection of minerals obtained through the instrumentalitiv-of2 2222 eRe ate ee eee See eee 31, 98 crystal of American spodumene transmitted by ...---.-31 Disbursements from appropriations for 1901-2 ..-.....----.-----------.----22 unexpended balances of appropriations for fiscal year endine June s04903. table showin cise = ee 16 Distribution and exchange of specimens--=.) 22. =-=. Gos. shee eee 46 of surplus material, Department of Biology.........-.-------.-90 Dorsey, George A., ethnological specimens obtained through. .-....--------26, 63 Duerden, J. E., material sent to, for identification and report.-..-.....--.---43, 89 Duplicate specimens; biological’ distribution of. 2-2-2225 22 sessee eee eee 90 distribution Of .¢ sss 22 ee Se eee 46 preparation of, for geological distribution ......-.-..---36
Duplicates, exchanges made with museums by means of .....--------------14

<<<Page: 911>>>

INDEX. fA sik
Page. Dutton, Miss Maud Barrows, illustrations showing the development of primitive industries gathered in Museum by...---me PHULOSIPNS Ment Oe eA See eo 72 Dwight, Jonathan, jr., bird collection consulted by........-...--.--.------40, 90 Dyar, Harrison G., custodian, Section of Lepidoptera.................--.--106 entomologicalspublications Dy =~ = \2<..222) £./222-2.: 2.2 41, 93 ICG STEYR NSUraTON NKETCUTE 1°10, eee Sra Me ee Oe a gegen 28 Lepidoptera of the Kootenai district of British Columbia, DAD SENPRED AT eel yaaa wean eal eet at Ci ie a hla Ae mo 41 member of a party sent to British Columbia ..........--45 titlessand notices of papers. by 22... (=~ .Sa2...b 22 LS! 169, 170 Eastman Kodak Company, collection illustrating development of the hand Earner ontnilaiteds iyere mes hw ee mee See) one FOF Se 28, 62 (Rao euO ge RaeU Ne emer ere! Sen ae ey Sota at Rete en ea eo Sh oe 251 ACO EI RO TNCe mWiO TKke@ ln se en ee eee Sie Se ie ene ae cess a Sos he bees 52 Baucanonal side-an vue MiIgeUn “2s aho 50s. sece oo Sos ea) ee be teen 10 Edwards, Charles L., the pedate holothurians worked up by -...-------.---42 owards, Vinal N., collecting outfit supplied to ....o..2. 5:2. js226<22252en:45 Egypt, Flint Implements of the Fayum, by Heywood Walter Seton-Karr-_.--747 Egyptian Exploration Fund, knives and flint implements received from ~.--7a Kigenmann, Carl H., fish collections consulted by -.....-.-.-...-..----.---41 title and notice of paper by.-.-..--------S Sea aoe 170 Electric-light wiring, readjustments and extensions of .............--------24 ihot WAG. specimens-ot mammalsisent toss 20520... 2s 5+ et eo 40 HimMerLon eles aracnmid eisnualedy yeem ae ae oe saa nai ee eee cee 41 Himery building. electric motor installed im. -... 12.2 2se-2.325e24 22 eden ses 24 Emmons, G. T., ethnological material obtained through -.................-26, 63 Emmons, S. F., material for study loaned to ..._..-------See Sep aan Se ae 44,102 Entries made in catalogue books of various departments, number of.--------33 BErACiertol MERU bhienee: eee A eect ery oe ok SN St te Se oe 635 Ethnology, Bureau of American, objects collected by E. H. Jacobs deposited High: 1 GUYStS\UlA Tal Ohya SR ESPN hs ey ne ee eee ee Te 27 of the Philippines, beginning made toward illustrating the.--.-36 * Evermann, Barton Warren, explorations in Hawaii conducted by ....--.---45 material collected by, transmitted through Bureau OisEn her CSte oe Sets aA ae eee yate Sra oan epee cen 80 Excavation of ground for new museum building, date of ---....--..------.--23 Exchange and distribution of specimens .__..._........-2-2-..--22222 2222s. 2 46 iBxchangessDepartimentol-Amthropologyose-a266 cease nee es ene = ee 64 made with other museums by means of duplicates .------------14 MeCeLved fromivanlous:MUBCUMSE 225 So ceeo S45 iota ss as) eens 70 Executive Departments of the Government, cooperation of the__.--.-------53 Exhibition and study series, Department of Anthropology ........---------68 CASES MMU OE TN@ les eee = eee pee ee Sg Lo eS 25 COUECITO NS asta eae eee onedaohibl lea wells, Sons Baw tLe 2 Lape co 16, 36 ATACHVeEMeAtuTeSs OL due tOlOaNs= = ces a o55-5 Seen 14 Pepartment: ot Biologyss S282 ae lte o 5 oeetes 37, 78 Genlocy additions tomseeceer see a 37, 103 of invertebrate fossils, improvements made in.--..---oe all se CROWOSG CON CIONEO tees ea eee ee es ee ee ee 68 Cnen Citires UhGaNprOpuAllONGs 55-5 es. oe oct wen pave bee Sess Ser meen 21 for fiscal year ending June 30, 1904, table SHOWING Sa icedatncn eae = ide steele = ale 21
NAT Mus 1904—50

<<<Page: 912>>>

Page. | Explorations 2222 esse ee cee eo a. er ee Se eee 44 Departmnent/of-Anthropologye=ss-ces oe paren ee eee 66 Biology 2 salto oestoe tthe tine vas eee ee eee 7 Exploring expeditions, a source of collections and information _........--.-14 Fainchild; Ds G4) custodian; Section of Lower tunel 2) 4.e eee ee eee 106 Fayum, district, yield of archeological material from _.............-1.-.2_-747 Egypt, Flint Implements of the, by Heywood Walter SetonKeres Se ad : provinee' of the, Gescriptionsot 5 =-4 2 eee fc. os eae 747 situation-ofe 2525 =o oe Se ee ae ee eee 747 Ferguson breech-loading rife, history. of 32242222 3. 2c. 242 2e eee eee 65 Fernow, B. E., honorary curator, Section of Forestry ....-.....--..--------106 Fewkes, J. Walter, archeological collection obtained by, transferred to the Musetm.2 2 es ok Be ee ee ees Sse 27, 64 collaborator, Division of Ethnology -.....-...--..-.-.-105 collecting’outht supplied tio 25. ea 45 explorations. conducted by. Ne eae aa ae eee 45, 66 titlesiand mnoticesioh paperstby sess =e ee ee Eee krill Field Columbian Museum, exchange received from............------------70 Fire apparatis; improvyement.in 2225-5 soso so aoe ee ee eee ‘=o First Zoological Institute of the Imperial Universite Vienna, Austria, exchange received fromiy. 4. sos ee an Pa en ee ee 46 Fisher, Walter K., title.and notice of paper by .2 2... 522. 2.s2cc-sc ee See eG Fishes Division, of accessions:.22.42d ss Sh oe ae eae eee eee 82 collectionsiof;, consulted S22) ssn oe eee 41,90 improvements IN gsi =e ae oe ee ee 87 wokk onstudiy Senese Sess es ee eee er ee 87 Flint Implements of the Fayum, bibliography. <~.-2--.2.-<2---40-2. 2 see 749 description: ot: plates 43 se aa eee 749 Egypt, by Heywood Walter Seton-Karr-. ---747 localities @b..'o3 2222 vaste Seo eee ee 747 Vicinity Ob. =.=. 22ers See ee eee 748 Flint, James M., classification and cataloguing in the Division of Medicine completediby 2). ti: hee ee re ee 93 honorary curator, Division of Medicine ........-.-....--<.105 title-andimotice‘of paper Dy = set-5-00 3. ae eee eee 170 Holklore; addition made! to collectiontats=s35-es 25 sae) ae ae ee ee 26 Folsom, Miss Cora M., researches in Department of Anthropology conducted by 71 Foote, Bruce, paleatithie workshops discovered with aid of.....-..----.----749 Forward, E. A., history of the Stourbridge lion studied by .--.-.-----------39 Fossil_footprints inthe: Connecticut: Valley. 2s. 2.2 ht ee ee 625 insects, collection of in Museum, largest in United States........-----31 Fowke, Gerard, fieldwork in the West carried on by -.--------------------45 models of Indian fire-making apparatus loaned to.....-----72 Fowler, Henry W., title and notice of joint paper by-<2222.222 222 --c-Se-=174 Fred Harvey Collection, baskets purchased from...-.....----..------------63 Furniture and fixtures, work done under head of.._........-...-.-.....--:24 Geare, R. I., chief of correspondence and documents. ....-.---..--.---+----106 General Considerations=2. h= 2.2" ese ee ee eee Pe Seti adc 3 work upon the collections: S325. 2 Seas eee ee eee 33 Genthe, K. W., free-swimming copepods worked up by-.----.---------------42 surface towings from the Woods Hole region sent to. .----89 Geological section across North America completed and placed on exhibition. — 101
Survey, United States; accessions from. -")--> 2, <2 -see eee ees 31

<<<Page: 913>>>

Page.
Geological Survey, United States. collection brought together by Dr. Samuel Scudder turned over to the Museum by va 99
¥; O; Ulrich colleetion transferred to Museum by OSES ES A See el ere ty ete b1 series of tertiary insects transmitted by -... 3 Specimens received fro ._:--.:--22.:--:-:: 98
transferred from, to Division of Invertebrate Paleontology .-.. 99 Geology, Contributions to the History of American, by Géorge P. Merrilf:..189 Depattment of, accksslons. =: :::::..:-<2::--:2-2::-22:2220::22:::: 31,97 total Humber received: .._..::..2:22:22:: 97 assistaiice to individuals and institutions.........:. 108
attention given to working out of fossil vertebrates ArGuiPoeksine 22 S=s 20% sess 222225222 leeoe. seks 36 Bhanees in personnel. 4-2°=¢ 0-22. 225..22)::2-ac-.. © 104 exchanges and luense aoss.ue as: sok sees seeccs) (AOS Siltee heats tae ae pee ree een Ses Og present condition of the collections ..-... ao ees 36, 103 feport of head clifator Ori .-:-.2::.22.2:-.222-:---97 fesearch work ifi -.-.::-:2-22c222.2:is-2-:22.:-2-104 MOULNG < See ae eer ee ee ete OO total number of specimens added to ..........----26
Division of, labels for exhibition series printed and distributed, num{GeEp Cals Me La Sapa Maer ap ae a OSGI og a a OR r= a 100 MALLET DI ECECELV EG Vasa sae ee Sas Sawa oe ee eae 97 Physical and Chemical, Division of, accessions to......-----.-----31 GateNa ORM MeSelIIn aMenrOnOlOpiGal: = — 2. f2 Sol eke Sos ae ow door hance ewe 61 Gilbert, Charles H., explorations in Hawaii conducted by...-..-......-----45 pM, collechions consulted! Dyises55. 052 Sanson ae oe ook 41 title and notice of joint paper by.----..-----ees meno te 170
Gilbert, Evermann, and Chamberlain, specimens collected in Alaska and OreROM Oy Ss 3 Se ere SS Gt Sa SRR a cts eo gt SE a eae oe 85 Gil, Cheodore N:, fish collections consulted by: ..-:-22s--s52l.sg-----. -5-40 honGracylassoctate my ZOO. = ase" ese seen ns eee 106 UiilestandenGiCes, OLspApers iD Viale eee es oe 170, 171, 172 Ginmore ne. Wa etem pOrary-appolmtment Of <5 \scnc8ssee sea 2 set eee ce 104 Girty, George H., custodian, Carboniferous, Section of Invertebrate Fossils.. 106 Hgles ane noi Ces Olepapers: Wynees sae oat ae ne ne ere 172 (Goldman whee se sCOleehine Ouitit Sippled. tos. -e sees note hee eee 46 Goldsmith, J. 8., superintendent of construction and labor.....--.--.-----56, 106 Goode: \Georce Brown, reference to work Of=-.2 2222255522: --=25----=42 +2 =10 Graf, Theodor, heliogravures of Hellenistic portraits given by ..---.--------27, 63 Green, Bernard R.,in charge of construction of building for National Museum. 12 Greene, Edward L., appointment of, as honorary associate in botany. ---56, 94, 106 Datanieal deposinmadepyec=seepe as. oo seen eee tae 30 herbarium and botanical library deposited by --.----52, 77, 80 OTA OUR e200 lath WM Oh Ae ee eee eee ok 43 Greer, ©. 8.4 telepraph switchpresented by. . =< 2.--2.: 22-2 s--2. +208-2 ee 28, 62 Crowiheand necds-oimpienvitiseuin aes os sean se anos Se See Speers si a2 see 18 iseub Ds sh. i MOLc.colceton loaned DR J... 5.0. 55-2 ese os Ste Seem ee 26, 66 ahr Waltermin ards Divisione Mamimalse 232-0229 S se. a oe See 56, 105 Hampson, Sir George, Norwegian lepidoptera presented by ...-..-----.----30, 84
Handlirsch, Anton, material for BUI Oy OMG Men's oe 2 Aa tea ois == = 44, 102

<<<Page: 914>>>

Page Harris, I. H., archeological specimens secured through bequest to the Museum Ys Sete Se eect tee eres ae ett te chap pel ct rat oe Pes eee aaa ee ee 27, 62 Harris; Jo: collecting, outiitinsup plied ios apse ae ps ee 46 Harvey, Fred, Collection, material transferred from, to the Division of Physacal “Anthro pOloey q 2 —ee eee ee Pat Hassall, Albert, parts of an index catalogue of medical and veterinary zoology published by, in cooperation with C. W. Stiles......-.-.-94 title and noticeloL joint paper Dys-s5s-seees see eee 181 Hatcher Je Bb: studyior the mriceratopsumad e bynes sss ae ae ae 44,103 Haupt, Paul, appointed to represent Smithsonian Institution and National Museum at the Fourteenth International Congress of OrientalIS(Gie ees Peas 2 ao Rater ne ee eee Sere eee ore Heres ie 55 honorary curator, Division of Historic Archeology......--.----105 Hautville, Mrs. T. C. d’, sword and epaulets worn by Gen. Alex. McComb, deposited by ss22i<% Sec. 2225 Gee tees abo oe ear aes oe ee ee ee 27, 65 Hawley, E. H., card catalogue of musical instruments planned by-.--------74 completed by....--=-67 Hay, W.P., diamond-back terrapins studied by ..-.2..----. 2-42-22 ec senee 90 Helminthological collections, excellent condition of ...........--..--------23D finest for study purposes in the country.....-.-88 Hemphill, Henry, collection of shells purchased from ............---------83 Henshaw, H. W., Hawaiian land shells received from..........----.-------: 29, 83 Herbarium, U.S. National, accessions, number of...-.....-----------=-----85 Loamstot plait ironies see eet er 89 work; on study series==s 2s eee eet a: ee eee 85 Herzer;. H;, fossil plants studied by =22 ac)" 2.9 ene eee 44, 108 High-pressure steam boilers, satisfaction given by ...--.-------------------24 Hine, James S., diptera sent to, for scientific investigation .........--.-----42,89 Hise, C. R. Van, paper read by, at the Ninth International Geological Congress55 Historicalcollections, additions t0%..<4.5235 esos aoe eee 27 History, division of; additions to . 02.22 a2: a2, 22. 3. eee ee eee 65 of American Geology, Contributions to the, by George P. Merrill... 189 Museum divided into three-epochs) = =-e-.-5-2-2=-eee 7 Mitehcock. © H-specimens tor Studiyesemi tomer pss see ee 44, 102 Elodson, 2. Re, .collectineyouthit supplied’ tops —= sees eee 45 Hofer, Miss Marie Ruef, researches in anthropological material conducted by. 39, 71 Hollands We Je. lepidoptera studiedsbyseess seas) ee eee ae epiey )< oee 41 Hollerith, Herman, technological material loaned by.-..2..-----------.----28, 65 Hollick, Arthur fossiliplanits' studied! biyiga-e sess ese a eee eee 44, 105 Holm, Theodor, botanical materialilenti tos 2-2 sesso. > eee eee eee 43, 90 Holmes, J.:S., specimens of amphipoda sent tos 222 ee sane ashe eee 43 Holmes, William H., anthropological exhibits at Louisiana Purchase Exposition under supervision Ob. 2o5. 2. 355225) eee 53 archeological objects collected. by, obtained by transfer from Bureau of American Ethnology .-..-..-..-----64 delegate to the Congress of Americanists .....-.--.---55
honorary curator, Division of Prehistoric Archeology . 56, 75, 105 monograph on the mines and quarries of the aborigines
in. preparation by. 22s. 2s ssc. toe ee ee eee eee 38, 70 reinstallation of the Division of Prehistoric Archeology
planned by . 25-22 -24emcone e eee eee ee 73 replicas in plaster prepared under direction of .....-.--69
titles:and: notices of papers. by 22-2 <i. dees a eee 50, 172

<<<Page: 915>>>

Page. Holway, E. W. D., collection of Mexican plants presented by..........----30, 85 Horvan she Js. ads Sechlonvolebinds/sWopesen 2822 285. ole Lele 95, 105 Hornblower and Marshall, architects for new museum building ---..----...12 Hough, Walter, assistant curator Division of Ethnology.........._....-.-. aa OD ethnological and archeological objects collected by -----....44 feldewonrkaconductediMnvase As ssiaenc se oe foetal mote 38, 66 monograph on the ethnology of the regions explored by Doctor Abbott in course of preparation by Professor Mason and... 61 observations of, regarding plans for the development of DiviSLOMVOLEB thin Ow cya ema aoe ISA es ee We Oe 72 hiilevancdenG mcero lynapeniw yas aes ae eet See 50, 173 Hovey, E. O., paper read by, at the Ninth International Congress. ......---55 Howard, Leland O., honorary curator, Division of Insects...............---105 WAPETSH UMS eevee aes a ate se eetieak 2 peta 41,93 report by, regarding the insect collection..............87, 91 HiGles an GenOulces:OlipaperssDy~oe sesso aoe ee he ao == 73, 174 Howdah, or saddle of the sacred white elephant, description of..........---744 Howell, Arthur, botanical specimens obtained in Texas by............-----30, 85 Howland, S. 8., oriental manuscripts deposited in National Museum by._---737 Howland, The 8. $., Collection of Buddhist Religious Art in the National Museum siyelmmanwel Nes Casanowiczmesst20 a> Se foe ea eee eee 736 Hrdlicka, Ales, assistant curator, Division of Physical Arthropology.-..-..---105 measurements on negro children and Indians made by~.-----70 LECOMINEM Cat] OMSe 0 Variaees ets eee re ene as etek se See tle researches in physical anthropology conducted by -...-....-38, 70 the possibility of a comprehensive biological survey of the people of the United States, attention called to, by -.-----73 titlescatid notices; ol papers iby 222225 285 Sie Me sea 174 value and effect of preservatives on the excised brain tested by 7 Hyatt, Alpheus, collection of achatinellas sent to ._....-.-.-.---.----------41 hiulesandenoticerot paper bys eeese ae sea eee Sa Sica ss er 174 Imperial Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg, series of fossils presented by. 32,99 Implements, Flint, of the Fayum, Egypt, by Heywood Walter Seton-Karr_... 747 Indian basketry, addition made to collection of.......-.-.---.-------------26 Iineeeicmcollechion Ol sproeress Nad Galles ss = ae a ae eer ee 3 GUIVISIONFO TRA CCERSIONS eee stent! ee Seretra creer ees yc) ae des RL rs elie 30, 84 daTEYOM| OSS Co(OVUMSES ese eters Paes oe Ml Reng nom aad aes 84 papers published-by-stath-of 2225325222 5s les ea ae 41 Seren tulicgworksim sere sate has te eee So eee Ne a en 93 use of the collection by investigators. .---.-spun ewe eal ee 91 WORKIOMES tI CW ASCLICS acm cm Seer ye emer ie eepe se att eee 87 Installation of exhibits, Department of Anthropology..............--------68 International Congress of Orientalists, Fourteenth, representative of Smithsonian Institution and National Museum to ~~ -59 Zoology, Sixth, delegates appointed to....-..----5d (oie ressen ier yaaa ame tient a cote Pat REE SE Se Ses 5) Geological Congress, Ninth, representative of the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum ROP ey chs AUS ee a Pit Baal ema Te 5d total attendance at the, from United S LAS copa et Se SNe epee, 2 ae 55 ImVvertebEatetossilseaishmpUtlOMasesescsee coe. eee ee eee eS 101
Paleontolopy,sDivislionsolsaccessiOnss.24-5424 o-ss-ese se see. = 31, 99

<<<Page: 916>>>

Page. Invertebrates, Lower, Division of, accessions. 2.2222... 52-2222 -2-2.0 ee 83 Jacobs, E. H., objects collected by, deposited in Museum by Bureau of American: Ethnoloey. 323522 92eR ee ee Ss OE eee 27 Jambunathan, N. 8., material obtained in exchange from ...........----30, 47, 84 Japanese porcelain figures, description of .............-.--.------ee eat 744 ‘ shark, specimenormpumnchased esses cis) eee ee eee eee 29 Jenings, Foster H.; title and notice: of-paper-by «.< 2.2.2 2.2-2.2: Mk ee 174 Jenkins, O. P., explorations in Hawaii conducted by --....-.-..--.-..--.--45 Johnson, R. 8., collecting outfit supplied to............-.----------te 45 Jonassohn, Oscar T,, series of artificial stones, gift from----.....-.---------31, 98 Jordan, David Starr; fish-collections consulted: by 2. eS: S25 te eee 41 titles and notices of joint papers by...............-.--174 Karr, W.-W .., disbursing \Glenk 22 3352/3522 eee 106 Kearfott; W.. 1: lepidoptera:stndiedsby. <2. 3. Seer eee eee ee ee 41 King of Burma, bed of, the,.description of a2. -2 4.2 aes ee ee eee ee 744 cabinet ofthe, description:of 2.222 22.5. 286 oe! ee eee 744 saddllerot they desenyp tions fase 9 ea ee arene .. 744 Kinney, Mrs. Louise Catlin, oil painting of George Catlin loaned by........27. 65 Kork; Hdwin'G., specimens for study lodmed (os === eee ee ee 44, 102 Kishinouye, K., specimens of Japanese precious coral presented by..-.-----30, 83 Klages, Edward A., collection of Venezuelan beetles presented by.......---30, 84 Kloss,-Ce Bi, birdsiobtamed bys. 5.5225. Sa Ss Se eee 40 Knowles, W. Ax property clerk. (acting) 2-2-2095 eee cis ae 106
Knowlton, Frank H., custodian of Mesozoic Plants, Section of Paleobotany .. 106 Kongelige Fredericks Universitet, Christiana, Norway, exchange received
ROM oS ee ee he es Be oR A Sap ee yy ee ae 46 Kunz, George ¥.,.specimens for study Sentito s-25) 225) 52. ceeee ee a eee 44, 102 Labeling: of exhibits, imadequate, -<<222 < $5.62. eee eee 68 Labels, case and specimen, preparation of, Department of Anthropology... .-68
Division of Geology, number of, printed and distributed............100
for musical instruments, Department of Anthropology...........-.-67
printed for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition ..............-..----68
Laboratory use of the collections by investigators, Department of Biology ---90 Langley, Samuel P., ceremony by, on occasion of excavation for new Museum
“douild ing "2.282 d.tek Se eee as ee es 13
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, keeper ex officio. — 105
Laramie question, the 22-2 kac nese oeec <a ee a eee 647
Lectures and meetings 52.222. 25. dene oo ee ee ee 48
large attendance: ats! oJ. 9.8 a oe ee 2 eee Se 48
Leland Stanford Junior University, Japanese species of fishes received from-. 29 Levinson, G. M. R., exchange from the Zoological Museum of the University
of Copenhagen through. s..2 252d 2cfaekiee eee ee eee > 98) Lewis and:Clark Exposition, appropriations:tor.< 2="---].oe-e eee eee 55 Tabrary,, Miasevumsy adel ittio ri gitar te aay eee ae ae
books. catalogued; number of j=. 2555-t-e -oe eee 52 bonnd volumes; nunther ote] = 2222s ae nee eee 52 cards added to the authors’ catalogue, number of -.-.---“a 52 need for maintaining, on better basis...-...-..-..----:---18 pamphiletsicatalogued. mum'beriGhee= === ene 52 parts of periodicals catalogued, number of-.-..---..-----52 unbound=<yolumesnumiber ole assess sess eee 52 List of accessions 2.22.32 seen ees eee en ee 107
authors.in bibliography 2.55.8. 4265 e0ae oe ee ee ee 183

<<<Page: 917>>>

Page. Loan of collections, Department of Biology -.-... JEG Cee SES 43, 89 material for study, Department of Geology.-..-................... 44, 102 Hoans declined on-account Gf lackiol room. 2222.2 2.5.2. -8. eee ee 14 Department of Anthtopoloey o.052 gs. 2.-. 2.2 228. ele 64 exhibition collections owe many attractive features to -.........2...-. 14 Louisiana Purchase Exposition, anthropological exhibit...-........22222--.54 bioloeieal exhibit <2 fh jlo, 2 eee 54 SeGlantemex Dunn aes 6 MNS Soe foe 54 part taken by the Museum at the ......._-.. 19 Lovett, Edward, specimens received through exchange with............-._-64 owe HowN-; Californian shells presented by-s--4--/52.5--.4.22. 2.2.2. 225222 29, 83 collection of crustaceans presented by -....-.-...-..2.----.--30, 83 Lucas, Frederic A., acting curator, Section of Vertebrate Fossils ..........._106 appointed curator in chief of the museum of the Brooklyn Inistiiiteror AntsramdsSGlences sees 2 eee sees see 56 connection with the Museum staff severed ........_56, 94, 104 curator, Division of Comparative Anatomy ............-106 material from the collection of vertebrate paleontology _ RR AC CBI apace Re eee te Sm aah eens Ce ate a See ena 44 the stegosaur remains studied by .............-.-------103 iiblessamd MoOticessor papers Dye ese 2 =o oe eee 174, 175 Lyon, Mareus Ward, jr., aid, Division of Mammals. ---ia tegh serch ate SoM 105 chief special agent for the exhibit of Smithsonian Institution and National Museum at Louisiana RurchaseehsepOsibio Nuss yeaa ee see ee 56 revision of hares and their allies completed by--__39)/92 the genera and subgenera, based on osteological characters, published by ~~. -92 titleand: notice’ of paperby.22222... 23222522 e23 175 Macleod, Mr., paleolithic workshops discovered with the help of.--.......-749 Mivclumenineerneatie wee eee ate ate nee ht ee hs A eS en Le oe eee 207 McComb, Gen. Alexander, sword and epaulets worn by, deposited -.--.....-27 MeDonrala Daten tiilerandenotice ot youn, paper iy) s-26-5452 5-56 9a5 5 see 166 McGregor, Richard C., Philippine insects received from -----.-.:.--.---.-.-30, 84 titlesjandinoticestof papersibyao2-s) s-eon es cee = 175 MeGuire, J. D., collaborator, Division of Prehistoric Archeology. ..-...-56, 75, 105 McKim, C. E., historical apparatus presented by Pennsylvania Railroad Coni-
[ESPUR SSL SING Ub ere es UI ee ig nee a ee ea 62 McKinlay, W. E. W., resources of the Department of Anthropology utilized by. 39, 71 MckKene wae CseAe ald ivisionrol Bishess = 52k2 ose 52.6 cee tec ashe e-oSs eens oe 95, 105 McLean, Donald, specimen of fossil skull presented by.....---------------33, LOO Maddren, Alfred G., collecting outiit supplied to _.-.-....-...--------.-.--46 Wana al ses Divisi Onova CCESSION Shes 22 oe Saas eee pe ee coe ep aeee ee 29, 81
excellent condition of collections -.-.-..-......-..--86
WORKCOU MUNG: Sb Chive SCTIGSE aeons 4s eee ee 86
Marine:Invertebrates; Division! of,accessions|)_=--=--<_5.222.222 225222. 30 cataloguer employed to bring up the records
OMVAnIOUS:Senicsien rt eis ee Sie oe 88 distribution of duplicate-specimens, States
ME PRESCMLCC Meyer eta ee oe eer 88, 90
improved condition of collections in -----35
LosMyommatenia Aiton 5 = see eee 89
iMorchaliesttennyarelenen ce tOndeat hil ansey sti ayes ee ese ee oe 57, 95

<<<Page: 918>>>

ers Page. Marshall, William B., aid, Division of Mollusks ...-..... ee eer ret feiiee: Whesm 105 title:dnd notice of paper by =. 25 =< sane ee ee ee 175 Masks and castings prepared for Museum exhibit and for exchange.......--70 Mason, Otis Tufton, acting head curator, Department of Anthropology... -.61, 105 é curators Divistonrorel Fim Ology =e aan ea eee Set PelOS gilt. tosMiusemmalalbrayyn Dyers se ae ee 52 monograph on the ethnology of the regions explored by Doctor Abbott, in course of preparation by Doctor Ei nee bn irae 20) sis Ss I ante ea ee ee Sa 61 report on the Department of Anthropology by -........61 titleandenotice ofipapensiy cesses eee eee 50, 175 Material transmitted to students and investigators outside of the Museum.--.Me Matsamura, 8., series of Japanese hymenoptera presented by...........----30, 84 Maxon, William R., aid, Section of Cryptogamic Collections ..........-----106 botamcal eld workicarned ontby 22245-22425 5 eee es 44 ferns from the Philippines received special attention from. 43, 94 titles'and noticesof papers by? Sols. 2. Yleeeee 175 Mayer, Alfred Goldsborough, collection of achatinellas turned over to, for _ MMV CStU SUELO Mes eo te ary he, cp ate ey nel rane a as nO 4] Maynard, George C., assistant curator, Division of Technology ..........-..105 history of firearms engaged on by -..--..---..------2-39 investigations by, of the history of the locomotive ‘‘Stourbridge iron eS Sass ae Cee ae ee ee ee 39, 66 jo ho 0) ee ee a ee ewiomee Me Sori Pad eA | 73 titleyandeMonce ron papery, eee eae ea ee 175 Mearns; Edgar Ac; collecting ontiit*supplied! tor..3228 22 2 ae a ee eee 46 ethnological and historical collections from the Philippine Islandsipresented: byes. tos es ee ee Eee 26, 62 mammals, birds, and mollusks donated by...........---29, 81 SClentihc work coOntmucdsDyeeeee eee ease ee ee ee 26 work conducted in the Philippine Islands by......------45 Meetings: and: lecturess..\\52. oe ot. ae eee oe eee ae 48 Merriam, ©: Hart, honorary associate zoology S222 ase nee ae ae eee 106 lecture on the Coast Region of Alaska delivered by-.-.-.48 Merrill, George P., Contributions to the History of American Geology... --189 curator, Division of Physical and Chemical Geology -106 geological specimens obtamed by 22 s2sss0eee ace eee 45 head curator, Department of Geology ....-......---.-----106 TePOUiey ocean 97 Mexico: visited by 22ssa2 22222 eee oe renee ee eae ae 79 report on stone quarries completed by...---.-----------43 titlestand noticesioipapersh iy. =e seee see eee eee eee 175, 176 trips’ made. by’. o: 2s25 52s se ee ee eee 102 work of a survey relating to the building and ornamental stones of North Carolina supervised by.----.-.-------43 Meteorite collection» additions mad es tomer sees eee ee ee 31, 98 Mevncke ©! Me collectineoutitis mp plieditOme ae eee eee ee ete 45 Military een , U.S , specimens connected with the military life of General Sherman lJent'to; upon request of P."T-Sherman\=2.222. -ee aa ae ees 72 Miller, Gerrit S., jr., assistant curator, Division of Mammals..........-.----105
delegate to the Sixth International Congress ot Zoology. 45, 55, 94 detailed to make faunal collections in the Swiss and Italjan Alps’ 22 28.22 ee ee ee ene 79

<<<Page: 919>>>

Page. Miller, Gerrit S., jr., new genus and species of gibbon named by -........._-80 Paperuphe pareusuyaass: seat asc. Ate Be ee Bio) Oe by, printed in other publications than those of the LSDSICIID TUN 2 Vee ee es Soe Cg gee eg 51 studies on mammals from the Malay Archipelago conLiMMCtM Dye a Nese eee ee Ss SR Lees uo yoe titles and notices of papers by .-2 2 24..2. 22-5222. 22.2. 176 work on a reclassification of the cheiroptera continued by 92 classification of bats continued by .........---39 Mineralogical and geological collections, card catalogues of, in course of prepaTiPELAMON OY all en te Cen Se a dN I ae Ae ae ak a ee eae ee RS pe eiee "eee SAGA La 36, 101 Mineralogy IvaAsianyOl, CeCERSIONG © or" Snacee So -—22 5 eo ne ee Sees 31, 98 TOWLIN CHV OPKMN Mes <eiiee ease on Wee ee 101 Models and replicas, Department of Anthropology..............-..---.----69 of the ruined buildings of Mexico and Yucatan completed and installed with exhibit prepared for St. Louis Exposition .......--..-69 Masiliiskps AitemuOMm given: Ls .u5. <2 aes ne see else Sela Se wdc ee ese eee oo IDivislOnkOlMACCEsclOMGt sn wae ee ek eee oe eee as ee Ss Sea 83 WOLk Oneuhe SbUdyISeRles ts. >. see can ene eee 87 Mooney, James, fieldwork in the West conducted by ........-......---.---45 Moore, «Clarence B:, title and notice of paper by. 22-2122... 52.2 2-8-5 176 Moore Gl custodian. Sectlon.of Mowers Alor: 2) oe 2 106 Morris hselacs pecimens studied by sts ae sasote aa es ote nis See cece ae 43 Morris, George E., specimens of isopod crustacean and branchipus presented ae ee es een ene is ae Sete cs ee a oP L a Soke. tee 84 Mortensen, T. H., specimens of echini and isopods loaned to......---.-----43 Museum building, number of visitors to, during fiscal year 1903-4 ..........47 since the opening in 1881, table showTUT chp Saaremaa oo i re 2 ea i a 48 table showing attendance during each month of past year 47 CLOW Dugan eneed Ss .Oleth eran sua se ae tana on ee ere Sore 13 in Manila, series of birds secured by exchange with..-.-----------. 29 Inbranyerad UGlOM Sito asa anaes nae eee nls eee ee 52 boundevolumresssnuim oer ofa seen aa ee eee 52 MM DOUN Gs papers sa MiuIA MeO lees ats e ae este See metres 52 of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., specimens of crabs received throuchvexchance wits sesnssse Sashes eso ea eee 84 Natural History, Paris, France, exchange received from. --...---46 the Imperial University, Moscow, Russia, exchange received PE OMe eye eae Mn als eft DE ee NRPS fee ae SEL 46 UNG GLa Sees eer eee eco as = re Ree gee eS Sl eg tani eae SR 49 of, and of members of staff, table classifying according toysulbjec terse a= tere er erase ee on Cie yee 51 Soe Seeya pe ce eeet eet AA en PN ee a IEE ee Oe eee 105 END ONE UT OTIS tare ee a eer Ne th ees ae Feed) he ee ee 8 44 papers by members of, printed in publications other than those of themMinseumts= 5 ssh eee ens Serb ee e SOE Cue ee 51 JOMAW GRE IROY CG C0) cae renee res ee ees a ace eae a 33 Museums with which exchanges are contemplated, listof..........---------69 Musical instruments, addition made to collection of.............-..--------26 Exnilsiino ts GivISlOMs1O leet eet eee a ails oe eine See 67 times pent) labeling seen 2 Ba et Ss Deore aes 67
Nansen wkd) SspecimensHOaneuOree aes ae lh Sack SEE ke IRS Sa oe 43

<<<Page: 920>>>

: Page National Academy of Sciences, annual meeting of, held in lecture hall ...---49 Herbarium. (See Herbarium. ) Institute: saab ee CS Bae a Se Rae Se ee 4 Museum building, laborers employed in, ae Ole ee eee 25 i LEPaAlxsHin INGETION Olaesee ewe ae eee eee 23 unsatisfactory condition of roof of ..........-.--23 of Brazilsmaterialerecetved trom 425 =. =e eee 30, 83 the 8. 8S. Howland Collection of Buddhist Religious Art in the, by Immanuel M. Casanowicz .......--..-/-------.% 735 Usi8.3) accessions-list of, Sse sesso oe ce eee eee 107 received annually since 1881, table showWAG) osc). ak Rae ae eens eee ere ee 33 actively concerned in the development of the welfare ofthe Coun ysate> 5-55 — eos ee 15 addthionsito) the. collectionssose a= == ee aaa 25 gdnrinistrative ‘stall .222 32.6 oe ee oe eee 106 appropriation; special: 252) ae: ales ee eee 21 appropriations and expenditures......------------21 for fiscal year ending June 30, 1904... | 21 1905 22 asia museumpol records ss. ees. = a ee a nes@archia2). 23S a 5 2) anvedueationall museum sass ss—seees: =e eee 10 Assistant Secretary of Smithsonian Institution in Gharge Ofte... 2 2 ys. et. See eee oe 3, 105 Bernard R. Green in charge of construction of buildWATS KON PAOVEN | ens coe se Nod St ee hohe eee 12 bibliographye:. ase ee eee 157 listvottauthors ines eee eee 161 chiefcatmisohes S52 eas Se ees ee eee ee ee 15 4 collections:. bullkes:22 3 Se a eee 9 of, utilized to fullest extent ......-----16 principal sources of, summarized... .-8 cooperation of the executive departments of government...) Meet Ate ae ee ee eee 53 correspondence’. Saceihe dees se eee ee 49 date of general employment of name.-....-.-.-----5 depositary for all Government collections ......-.--15 desirability of extension of hours in opening the.... 19 disbursements from unexpended balances of appropriations for fiscal year ending June 30, 1903 ...-22 distribution and exchange of specimens.......----.46 duplicate speciinens 2.2. 42 222-0 ae Oe ee eee 6 employees of, for technical work ..-.--.-----.----I; erection of additional building for the, authorized by @ongressUi. 5 hae Ssshec Sik eee ear eee 12 exhibition collechionse=-s-=-esseaeoe ante oo 3 ee 36 expenditures and appropriations -......-.--------21 ending June 30, 1904, table showing 21 explorations 322.22 s2-< soc sees ee eee 45 ex positions:.[2.5 io. n eben ea negee eee renee 53 general considerations 222222. -ne sees = eee 3
work upon the collections -.=....-+-.--2-33

<<<Page: 921>>>

INDEX. rare
Page. National Museum, U. §., history of, divided into three epochs ...........-..7 TS TGS GIES" eG NO) Be el ae ee oe 16 [Cre ee ae ee een. eee eee See 52 HEN St ok nic aS oC ee a a 14 PERM MAMNCe Ese ne Seton Soke hd wo oc ee SASS 6 MANIAC EMME M beset s Ses cies es ae eases ete ee 6 means required by, for acquiring special collections. 15 HEED SOD Me oe Sy RE care ee Sac Soe 56 needs of .----. ke ie eee ae I er ea ae rar 18 MG Pele lineUesWNOnd 5 0 Ses 4 se ee 17 number of entries of specimens in record books of, at EES SCY LE. EE eg en Re a a a 9 number of entries of specimens in record books of, immediately preceding the Centennial Exhibition (BYE DCH AG} = = Bae ens ele AR OC Sen rer aeee Sc Pee ect 8 OblekiScOlnGenned rset 20 <= hoses ee ee rea 7 OperaLions OLeyear, Summary .<2 2. 35. SBS ee 21 GUEANNZAO MG atta” Seto inne s Sees Ne Jee Saw he oe 58 QEMGIN Olas PET eee as Fe SS Sees © Seon eR eee 3 packed condition of storerooms of ...........-----9 papers by officers of, and others based wholly or in ; part upon the national collections. --.........-.-161 part taken by, at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition 19 PUMA VS GUjECh laa te mae see ele e Sone ee 15 In WeatGR Sys ote > at etes ea toy Se aaa aces 6, 49 NSTC li ROS ort REA sey ee ape ey 157 papers published in separate form .--157 report on Department of Anthropology ....-...---61 Biologys se os eae a Gealopyeiee 5: a= seen 97 reports of head curators.-....---.---.--ete aes 59 NOSE CL CS reap soe ere ech artes ae it ohn Se es ee 38 BOONE. Ol JOC IINCUN fat St oe he Sa eae ot ee Gri Bpecumens, classilieation a4... 28 haec es ane 6 distribution and exchange of _......_..633 IMmerecord HOoOks ol mess 22-6 see 9 SU Ue ee ee See ie oe ee eee peed ee ienee We Settee 105 Subjects;best represented 2-32. 2st foscse ae 6 VAS IICOMS vee ese pre ts Soe eee rece ce eey gs 2s Seen age Nhe a (he 47 Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution, relics deposited RA ee ee =m I PS CT EO Ae OE 29 surveys, the era of, or fifth era of State surveys _.............--..-551 Naval Medical School, U. S., graduating exercises of, held in lecture hall ..-. 48 Navas, R. P. Longin, material obtained in exchange from...........-------47 Navy Department, objects of interest presented by -..-.--.---.------------53 Nedwali. Ward, collecting outit, supplied tO=.2 22.2882 soise225-2. . al cacee on 45 Needham, James G:, title-and.notiee of paper by.2s=--. 2... 2-22. 2-24-2522 177 NehehyJohnebats pelodian textileart studied: by -5222-5+2225c55-----ce5--25 39571 Nelson. He\\. sod collectons consulted Dy. = 3.09.,5. 22. 42.2 le tees cee 90 lecture on A Naturalist’s Winter in Mexico delivered by~-..48 UiuLes tan den OLGes Olapaperst DNase =. eeces ee ee est ees 177 Ne wa Mise timmy trill clita see Oe ee ei oe eo fee ee a Se 12;
plans for, approved by the Secretary of Smithsonian lire ttn apes hee ace re Sa Oa wwe oe eS eeu ete = 13

<<<Page: 922>>>

Page. New Museum building, site of, inclosed..........-..--------Eh Veils ane ae 1: New York Botanical Garden, specimens received in exchange from-.-.--.----30, 85 Newhall, W. H., aid, Division of Physical and Chemical Geology ..--------106 [BbONerSHOLSIOUF, JONG, WPaStion! UO seegee eo o ooo oSasocSscoce ss: 120 Nicholson, Miss Grace, classification and care of basketry studied at Museum by 71 Nomenclature committee of the American Ornithologists’ Union, the validity of various species and subspecies of North American birds considered by-90 Norton;.65-A>.@> -title~andmoticeo paper byisse: soos oe oe eee eee WUT Nurse, Charles G., Indian hymenoptera, gift from..--..--.---..-----ee 30 material obtamed invexchanee trom 2) = scene yee ees 47 series of hymenoptera presented by.-.-.-----.----.-----84 Nutting, Charles C., American Hydroids by, published -.........-2~-------. 42,49 fitleand moticevol paper iby se. aoe ee eee 177 Oberholser, Harry C., bird collections consulted by...---..-..-------------90 titlesiandimoticesioh papers) byeass—aoe ee eee ee 177 Officers of the National Museum and others, papers by, based wholly or in part upon: the national ‘collectrons::. 2. G2 Ysera ee eee en oe ee Bit clit Operations Of the year;.eummary.of: 3952 5o22 S502 Sie See eae eee 21 Ordnance Office of the War Department, collection of weapons transferred to — Museum: by s52 54 Sos coe a ae Sa RED NOM es laos peepee =e ree 65 Oreanization and ‘etait Jo 32-2255 een Sees ee bee oS eee eee 50 Oriental manuscripts deposited in National Museum by 8. 8. Howland------ior Ornamental beggine’ bowls, description of 3285. 4-2-2. 2 ono 34seee eee oe oe 742 Ortmann, “A. E., Specimens‘of schizopoda sent to -=-5---2-25-anes sees 43, 89 title and notice of paper by POE Sn ee ee Ieee an ee Osborn, Henry F., lecture on the Evolution of the Horse delivered by-...---48 work on the Titanotherium of the Marsh collection continned by eo Se ae Se ses netle See ene ee 44, 103 Outes Helix she; material) op taped! bye esse ayer ere ee 27 Raine, R. G., aid, Division of Reptiles and Batrachians =-------2:22-=.-.-=-105 Paleobotany;.section Oly accessions |i Se t= -s apres ae et etn 100 progress made in the work of preparing card catalogue of the Lacoe collection of fossil plants ---.-.----102 Palmer, William, plants collected in Newfoundland by ....-.....----.------85 time spent by in Mexico for the purpose of making mold of MeteONbe Jes hoss Sac. ek obs Soe eee oe oeeae Seas a ae eee 79 zooloficali specimens (colllectedsby.2 -saseeee see Beene 79 Papers by members of Museum staff printed in publications other than those of: Miuseunise 24 S222 Se ee eee 51 staff of the Division of Insects published .-...--.-----41 officers of the National Museum and others, based wholly or in part upon: the national collections s2rseee aos. ea nee ee ee 161 Museum;. publication.of’. 2252 3.25. ea ee ee ee 6 published by members of Museum staff and collaborators, number of 50 in separate form ----ek Sak DEMS EU See SARC ae oe ees 157 {roms Proceedings se ee sees ween eee 158, 159 Reporimion 190s 22ee == ot Be eee 157 19023 Se eee eee Se 158 Peale, Albert:@s aid, Section of Paleobotany S255 se5 ese = se eee eee 106 leaveitaken by.<2 Sasa: soe soon Soo eee ie oe ce ee 102
Pellegrin, Av L, nugget of silver donated Dyses--s-2-ce reer a= eee eee 31, 98

<<<Page: 923>>>

INDEX. fale
Page. Pennsylvania Railroad Company, historical apparatus used on telegraph lines SSG Ey eet i ae pe Re cr ae wy Oe eee set oe ee 28, 62 Perkins, Dr. Janet, collection from the Philippine Islands loaned to ......__43, 89 Peyster, Gen. John Watts de, relics presented to Smithsonian Institution by.. 27, 65 Phalen, William C., collection of rocks described by. ..........-..--..2.--44, 104 ‘ FRESE EMT TIO) 170) Fees a sg Eg a 56, 104 HiPles Ande OLICesiOl papers DY c= so. 2 5525-5. 2a See yolk 178 trips made into Virginia by, for making collections. -.--102 Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition of 1876 ....-......-..-..--.2222.22.-.-5 Philippine insular bureau of agriculture, Manila, specimens received in Clee ein Cline eee eerie ss ee 2 i LS 30, 85 Museum at Manila, specimens of birds obtained through exchauge iA pe i <a oS ae Se ee ee ee eee 82 Photographing Indians visiting Washington, work of, greatly enlarged during SY chee lens lesa epee are eerey ne Re tee ree oe Sense a, seman sees eeaee etal oe ne i IPLOVGN OAR O OE 2 AO eben oa ee i aga ee 52 Physical Anthropology, division Of, accessions =: =... 2 222.2222. n-ne oss 27, 65 Pilsbury, H. A., specimens of the cirripedia loaned to ................-----.-48 Pinchot, Gifford, lecture on The Living Forest, delivered by -...........-.-48 Piper, C. V., collection of diptera presented by the Washington Agricultural Cone seiLMnOUrth meter set etek cee Pe RS EC aaa 84 plants from Washington State presented by ......--..--------30, 85 Plans for future development, Department of Anthropology .........-.-.---72 Plants, Division of. (See Herbarium.) MCCESSIOMen We pURehage, tio Beans abe soe ce hes Cees 31,79 MUU OTIO hee re ees en Sek ey aes 30, 79, 85 ACULY Tits PLE MAU O TM seeps ee eae bew ee ee Sec ee 36 purchases made by, from the United States..........-.-85 outside of the United States .......-85 rearrangement of specimens in progress in..----.-:-----36 sheets stamped and recorded, number of ..-.........---36 specimens mounted during the year, number of.--------36 Plummer, Fred G., botanical specimens obtained in New Mexico and OklaLOVOVTOG), [ON Se eee SRS ee eG Seat cee ee SI Ste RIE te gr a eg eee oe eee eee Se Ee 30, 85 Pohndorf, A: P., specimens of smoky quartz presented by. --.-.------.------31, 99 Pollard, Charles Louis, connection with Museum severed by.-...-..-.-----56 emendedatimough: granted toe. 52-2. 22s se nee 95 Lepr e Slo 22) ave eis!) 30 0) 0S 08 get a eS Ae ee ee ete em 743 Prehistoric Archeology, increased space obtained by opening hall of ...-----67 Prentiss, Daniel Webster, title and notice of paper by .----..-------.-------178 President, bill approved by, providing for the celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the exploration of the Oregon country by Captains 1 GES i201) GALES eee Nah ah ne Se eB RU mea 55 President of the United States, collection ot firearms from the Philippine Slender ene Oboe tie patie a i Sa Se neh ee tai a Pd Seek ake owes 26, 62 MVateorcoOlechiOls 0 VallarerOLOMtAalMIn ie = am 66 5s sae noe See clos sac eee 15 Proceedings, U. S. National Museum, date of issue.........-..-------------50 number of papers comprised in three VOlUMEeSIOlse cs. see eae as 50 volumes issued....-.-----. 12 BCOPC IEE mrs fe we Saale Seer eee ate 12
Suplectsrtreated: Olsinip 4s sae eee eee 50

<<<Page: 924>>>

: Page. Proceedings, U. S. National Museum, Volume X XV, published ............ 49, 157 XXVI, papers publishedinseparate form from..... 158 piiblished sso sees 49, 157 . XXVII, papers published in separate formfrom-. 159 published ”.o2:2 49, 157 Publications ofthe Museums: S322 ioe co bel iat cc an ec ee ee 49, 157 and of the members of its staff, table lassifiy ing according to Bubjects. -. 2¢ 224222. aeons ee 51 distribution of, amount ..... Re a So i NS 49 larger number issued than uswal ..........-...-49 Pusey, M. J., collection of Peruvian insects presented by ..............-.:-: ie 84 fpeuraiunsicr s Department of the Army, special acknowledgments due to 53 Ralph, William L., honorary curator, seaeas of ‘Birds’ Biges 2b iss Sateen ee specimens of birds’ eggs donated by -..-at Soret eee Rathbun, Miss Mary J., assistant curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates.. 106 monograph of the potamonidee completed by .-----42, 94 paper forthe Harriman Alaska expedition prepared by 42, 94 on the crabs of Hawaii prepared by Soa eee », 94 titles and notices of papers by ...... ga vaie c's epee ait Rathbun, Richard, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Tent in charge of the U. S. National Museum ..... .......--105 honorary curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates ..... 106 TENOTE. DY" os Fe Pas ak oats ea i ea 3 titles and ‘notices ‘of papers by: 222.5% 2... onnsasenee se ee Ravenel,’ W. de'C.,.administrative assistant< /--.o0 4202s e eee oe eee 105 material for investigation loaned to ........:.-.-...---72, 102 fitle.and notice of. paper DY oe Seucass= se wee oes Fee ott keteee Raymond, P; B:;‘epecimens for study sent'to 2: 2_.25. 35 ass ee eee 44 Rehn, James A. G., specimens of mammals lent to..............-....------42,89 orthopteraiient {042-2 es> 45 4a eee 42,89 titles. and ‘notices. of papers. by Soe 22 7s eee 176, 178 Religious Art in the National Museum, The 8. 8. Howland Collection of Buddhist;* by “Immanuel. .MeCasanowiez 3.22. 555 5 2 ee 735 Report:of Charles Schuchert 2 Si.4-. 2 au te eee ee 185 on Department of Anthropology, by acting head curator..........--61 Biolosy. by head curation ease a ee eee 77 Geology, ‘by head:curater -s2:-—-ee ee 97 upon condition and progress of the U.S. National Museum durian the year ending June 30; 1908-552 2 ee eee ee ee 3 WUoS. National’ Mrnseum date onisste = see eee eee 50 1901. contents. ee ar se ee eee 50 1902; Contents y= atc Sear ee ees 50 L90L published =o? sc 22k Soa eet as cena eae 49 1902, publishedss-5 > oo ee ee 49 Reports of head ‘eurators: ue Se9 Nor ee 59 Reptiles and Batrachians; Division of; accessions. -/2-. 22 -2-1225-) 2 see sees 82 satisfactory condition of study collection ; Ohi SRS ee ee ee ee 86 Research, as a museumpof: 222.0255. 02. Sh es oe 2 See ee ce ee Researches: . ows fs hoee a oe SOS ee ec 38
Department of Anthropology Sele Pe Faea'ss aon ee ce Ca See eae 70

<<<Page: 925>>>

Page. faehearclied, Ve parimieMmOhiataOnye 2o8 2-2 22s. osc se tee bloc eens 91 ea Soret eet Oe. Se A ee 104 prchardson, Miss Harriet, account of the isopods obtained on the Alaskan expedition; published by .. 2.22.2. 5222-25-22 42 collaborator, Division of Marine Invertebrates .... 106 manual of the North American Isopoda begun by42 paper on the isopod crustaceans of the northwest COaNLEIEMISHE Ga DYyIe as ee oS a eee ses 42 titles and notices of papers by .........-.--.-..-179 Richmond, Charles W., assistant curator, Division of Birds ..............-.105 identification of the Abbott collection of birds comLG LE Omiya see ee eaters err yn ae Bae een See 40, 92 list of birds collected by Doctor Abbott and C. B. Hlossipremanedbyesesse soe fee ant Meee oe 40, 92 notes on zoological nomenclature by........---.---40, 92 nilenand notices, of papers: by 2... = 2. v=. 2222-642 179 Ridgway, Robert, Birds of North and Middle America, Volume IIT and part of MOLI eu VE Completed Diy: sees ae ae S See | SS ee 40 CULALOT wD ivaslOnM: Of inGSee cae acter a ere Shed Bh St 105 papers descriptive of new genera and species of American J evireG UST Ove] UU OR LS] ok 20 | a I a ee ee 40, 92 specimens borrowed by, in connection with Manual of North and Middle Amertean Birds 225/52. <5... S222. s a8 86 Hulesandangticesiorpapersiby-a-22=eos eee eee ee ees 179 work on the Manual of the Birds of North and Middle ATNELICACOMTNUCH DY 2) ee ta eae se ase sass cee ee 91 Riley, J. H., aid, Division of Birds -.-_-. Lepipy Sdies Brag AE soe Dee a ei eee eee oe 105 expedition to the Bahamas accompanied by ............---29, 44, 79 Wie Us wa yoassisien Ys cea ane ae Ra sos SoS eet 40, 91 notes on birds from Bahama Islands published by -.....--.---40, 92 LIMES ANG EMO UCES OL papers Dy stent cess = cece ee eee eee 179 transferred to the Division of Birds =: --:--_--.-:..2.2222..2-.95 zoological collection in the Bahama Islands made by -.--.--.--81 Rio Grande do Sul, mass of amethystine quartz from..........-------------31 Rives, Col. Wright, rifle used by David Crockett lent by...................28, 65 Roberts, George E., researches in Department of Anthropology made by ---71 Robinson, B. L., material from Division of Plants lent to ..........-.....--43, 89 Robinson, Wirt, collection of bats from Cuba, and number ot birds presented by. 29, 81 Rose, Joseph N., assistant curator, Division of Plants (National Herbarium)... 106 botanical field work carried on by. -..--------.------------44 description of a new species of begonia published by ----.--94 investigations conducted by, in conjunction with N. L. ES NGC OMe es Wire 50S are Re ee one Seen ce ee eee 43, 94 DAPers eM vert meee a Sane 5 ese eae ee a. Ladaaee 43,51 studies on Mexican and Central American plants continued yee ee eee Le een aie ate ae Sa Swe eee 43 titles and: notices of papers by 2. =->.. Ses 22 ects ees 179 work upon the cacti of North America begun by -.--------43 Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, London, plants obtained through exchange RUN Lia onshore ee ae ee ste NE rs ee Uk 30, 46, 85 Sibpur, Calcutta, India, exchange received from. -46 Botanical Museum, Berlin, Germany, exchange received from...-....-46
Ethnological Museum, Berlin, exchange received from.......--.-----70

<<<Page: 926>>>

Page. Royal Zoological and Anthropological-Ethnographical Museum, Dresden, Germany, exchange received from $. 2 222.22. Jotce ase nels os orc oe eee ee 46 Schaeffer, €.,.coleoptera studied by. 2...2.2.2+..----.~-2 eee arene 41 Schaus,: William; lepidoptera studied! by: ... 22-2 2. Yo< ee. eo oe 41 Scheffer, Theodore, cotypes of species of spiders donated by..----..--------85 Schliiter, W., collection of Old World mammals purchased from....-.--.---29, 82 Schmidt, ieedereh von, gift from Imperial Academy of Sciences through. Sees Se) Schuchert, Charles, assistant curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology.. 106 custodian, Paleozoic Section of Invertebrate Fossils... .-. 106 leavelohabsenceeranted toc 2. meee seem er eee 102 TOPOTE OLS eae aes Mae eee eee ee ee ee 185 representative of the Smithsonian Institution and Natianal Museum to the Ninth International Geological JOMBTCRS (3.10 So poe we tne De eee oe 55 resignation Of 22 sores p= os Seria ee a ee ee 104 time spent by, in St. Louis installing exhibits -.....-..-102 titles and notices of papers by 2.2 a2¢-522-2). ae ee valuable fossils securedcby-saenseoee eee a ee 31,45 Schwarz, Eugene A., collection of coleoptera and lepidoptera from... ---...---_ 30, 84 custodian, Section of Coleoptera. -...-..--.--..--------106 Scientific researches and investigations, Department of Biology. -.---.--.----91 staff..members ol, liste. s-2 225 .ns ses se ose eee ene ee ees 105 Work, resultsn. Gurnihohyeats. = sseee es a eet eee 38 Scope and objects of Museum defined: 2° 22 se so ae a ee 7 Scudder sN: ce: wassistamtm librarian yess oe a ete ee tee c tear oe eee 106 Scudder, Samuel H., series of tertiary insects assembled by...-....---------BIT 99 Secretary of Smithsonian Institution, keeper ex officio. ....-....-.---------105 papers written by Museum staff, printed in publications other than those of Museum by permission of.---.-----51 plans for new Museum building approved Byi fete ot a ee ee eee 13 Seton-Karr, Heywood Walter, Egyptian stone implements presented by-----27, 61 on Flint Implements of the Fayum, Egypt---. 747 paper by, in Report of National Museum for 904 35 oo os ae Ue Ao eee earn 747 Sharpe, Richard W., the ostracoda worked up by......--------------------42 title. and. notice, of paper y-222 2-25 a) ere 180 Shattuck, G. B., expedition to Bahamas under direction of...--------------44 Shaw, George R., specimens of pine lent to ..--------------=~-------------90 Sherman, P. T., specimens connected with the military life of General Sherman loaned to U. S. Military Academy upon request ot .-----------------72 Sherrington, C. 8., researches conducted by.-.-.--.--------------------------39, 70 Sickler, F. M., specimen of pink spodumene presented by...---------------31, 98 Skinner, Henry, coleoptera studied by..-..--.-----------+-+---+----=+---=--41 Smillie, T. W., assistance rendered by; to the Civil Service Commission. ...--53 custodian. Section of Rhotosraphiye a: seeseme se a= =e 105 photographie work done by, under direction of the Secretary 53 report by. 2. jo2.g-h ae cigs a osaee Sean See oe ee 52 Smith, Eugene A., cut turquoise presented by.....----<-------------------31, 98 Smith, Hugh M., collection of Japanese reptiles presented by ..--..--------29, 40 explorations in Japan by..-.------.------.+---+-----+----45 title and notice of paper by.-:--.--+2:r2-+2creee-ceee 2222: 180

<<<Page: 927>>>

Pa Snide. oy depadopters studied Dy.tc. <2 222-222-2222 oko hae ee 4 SIMs cOn ames mineralogical cabinet Olna--=--e-----2-2-2255422222552 5ce 4 Smithsonian building, Archeological Hall, repairs in._-.._.............----24 : PEA SCO MELOOI Ole aan ae rr) a ey 2 eat, ae eer ee 24 VASILO LS eee eee eect: ere x Je Ee eet ie 47 DROW AG | EY WS te eae ee i ie ee 3 Institution, act of Congress of 1846, founding of _--...-----.---3 Snyder, John Otterbein, title and notice of joint paper by-...-..-.-.-----174, 180 Solbere Ole, customs of Hopi Indians studied by _.....-2.-...-=-...-<.25--s 39, 71 Special bulletin, U. S. National Museum, No. 4 (Part IT), published ---..-.--157 Specimens, acquisition of, by purchase restricted owing to small appropriation 25 approximate number of, received by Museum during year recorded Dyaeujectc, meOke SHOWIN. Sins oe oe aaah eae tees 32 Gistnilputionvanduexchancerol sees saat ane oe eae seen aeee 46 Oly tor Ginolve sie Ola oponeeseae Sosegcesosoencoe 38, 46 drawers made during the year, number of_.........-.--.-.-----24 fen Dimisioniol Plants; mnuminer Of 22 = 55525 22a Ao oes 3 obtained from the allotment to the Museum by Congress-.---.--14 OleMiuseumerelaseitiedeye sa see ee es ae Ol a ee eee 6, 11 GUID CAI eee ee ee tas, ee ee 6, 11 received during year, Department of Anthropology ---.---------26, 62 1B (0) oyea a eters eee es 26, 79 (Geology eee ee a eee ee ee ONO total number of, in possession of Museum at close of year, recorded by subjects; tabletshowing. 2.522 S25-22 32 received in all the departments -.--....---.-----26 Sponville, Juarez, collection of platiniferous rocks presented by ----.-------31,97 Springer, Frank, material for study loaned to .....-----------------------44,103 S. S. Howland Collection of Buddhist Religious Art in the National Museum, esioimennel WW Casanowien. 2. <2.) .<2 p22 os ceee cee == See aer 735 Simmominexhi bit. summary ol work done for_.2:25----52-2.----2s22s-s-6-878 SaomierapMnMasinainver liSbhes ss ccaco+ oo sees a neseaee eae oee ee cesoces ees 106 i troverermiam TSE Lees Ses A pie ee eek ate ee ee em oa noe 105 portrays worl OL) hoe.) Sa afer eimai ills 33 RGIS MUU CAM IS Lyre eee ets weap oats ie tes eta re Ak ssa ove 105 Stanford University, fishes of Japan collected and described by Doctor Jordan amipevinesmvder presented by: |. -222-5-22-22)-oese see sence 22" 83 Stanton, T. W., custodian, Mesozoic, Section of Invertebrate Fossils -.--..---106 Stanton, W. A., Philippine insects donated by --.---.-.----------------:-----30, 84 Starks, Edwin Chapin, titles and notices of papers by-.-----------170, 171, 174, 180 State Department, material secured through representatives of .-.--.-------53 State surveys, fifth era of, or the era of national surveys -.-----------------551 HlOVS) GLE (0) latte OM RO EI ea oc ad Aare aule SN Ue ase 194 firsted Cade mae ee eee ee Rees Mtn eer eet eiciae ae 295 IOI ON GKXENO (ek Aaa Une SeS cease ee Saou sSse occ 503 SECOMGEC CCAM ye eee ets een ee ee ee eee ree ee camer 363 Prd idecnd ean! eee oe ee ee eee See aati 429 Statistician of the United States Bureau of Immigration, researches conducted ee ee Oe ea ain ee a eine Ste Sai ie ene ee nee 39 Stearns, R. E. C., honorary associate in zoology ...------------------------106 series of west American shells-presented by--------------29, 83 title and notice of paper by.------------.---------------180 Stebbing, Thomas R. R., title and notice of paper by -.--------------------180
NAT Mus 1904——91

<<<Page: 928>>>

Page. Steele, Edward S., special attention given to genus laciniaria by -...---..---43 Steere; Joseph) Beal; title andmotice of paper by.s.2.. ei =s4eee eee ee 50, 180 Stejneger, Leonhard, account of the herpetology of the Bahama Islands preParedes byes. Sac Sc oe.5 ae eee ee 40, 92 acted temporarily as head curator, Department of . Biologie h Sey edie Got Sak 5 Teen! Dee ata ee ny trek eee 94 collection of reptiles from Japan worked up by.--.....--40 Texas identified by, in conjunction with Vernon Bailey ---40
the Bahamas worked up by... 40, 92
curator, Division of Reptiles and Batrachians ....-..--105 delegate to the International Congress of Zoology ... 45,55, 94 detailed to make faunal collections in the Swiss and Ital-
Team AOS So. ae ie eye eee pe eye nee i ey ee ay. general management of Department of Biology devolved
LPO OND Sere a Bee Se er ee saya tee ne ee 77 Herpetology of Porto Rico, published by ..----....-... 50,92 papers by, printed in other publications than those of
Ene? Lastititlons ose oes ee See Semin Seen hee eee 51
report on the Fifth Zoological Congress, published by .. 40,92
species of lizard deseribedwby = 2). -225... c/s fcc oan ee 81
specimen of iguana described) by 2-2.25225.525542ce 81
studies on the reptile fauna of eastern Asia continued by. 41, 92
titles‘and ‘notices\ohpapers by 222-252-452 soe eee 180
Stevenson, Mrs. Matilda Coxe, field work in the West carried on by .......-45 title and notice: of paper! by <2. 2-22. see aenee 180
Stewart, Alban resiondtion af 0125 2 420se ee See ee ae ee ee 56, 104 Stiles, Charles Wardell, custodian Section of Helminthological collections.... 106 delegate to the Sixth International Congress of Zoology 55
investigation of the hook-worm disease completed by. 42, 94
‘‘spotted fever’’ undertaken by .. 42, 94
papers relating to parasites published by..........-94 parts of an index catalogue of medical and veterinary zoology published by, in cooperation with Doctor
Hassall 3h Soc eh ae Sys ie ees ee 94
Litlesvandinotices ol papers se. eee eee eee 181
Stokes) E-aN., Specimens) tor Scuciyaisem tito pee sips ere ee ee 44 Stratigraphic Paleontology, Division of, progressin +. ...<22.-<ceeeo248oe 104 routiney work in’. sts. JS eee 101
Stratton, 8. W., material from Department of Anthropology loaned to ....-... 72 Strong, RM., collection of birds‘consulted! bya 2s 55. Soe ses ee eee 40, 90 Study series, Department of Biology, work on the-...2.22.-2.-2-.a2--. cee 86 SUIMMAKyaOl GNETOp CLamlOMs Oly tle yi Celr eee ays ae eo ae ae eee sau 21 Surplus matertalaiistrilo ttl Ory fe seep ae 90 Swanton, J. R., field workin the West conducted by.....-.:.2-..25--.222245 Sweeny, Thomas W., care of the study. series continued by--.--------:-----68 Swingle, W. Ts custodian; Section of Higher Alor = 55-2222) s =e eseeeeee 106 Taconic question; they. 28: 2o2. 3) Boe ee ee eee re a ee 675 Passin, Witt, analyses\made* by. <-234c..5-656652 So-eie oe See eee 104 assistant curator, Division of Mineralogy ......-.----.-.-------106
meteorite from Persimmon Creek, North Carolina, described by. 44, 104 time spent by, in St. Louis installing exhibits -....-...-...-.-102

<<<Page: 929>>>

Page. Rassin, Wirt, title and notice Ol paper by —.-2.......12--....02.2Bey ata 181 echnoloricalexiibi sme OvedseMMsse seine a ask So sno 2 eels ed lode 28, 75 empleo crim G@ecchupMOng@len eae ee sala hoje ce aaa nant ee ase ch owe see 744 Ian SRO ec tM OMNONER Samar oe cle. ee Sk ak eh ms Ses 743 Thompson) J..Cs;colectimeyoutht supplied) to... 2.52.24. 105052 ock esol ae 45 specimens of fishes from Puget Sound donated by-......... 29, 82 Tonk, William, and Bro., serenato saxophone presented by ............----62 Townsend, Charles H., lecture on Exploration of the Deep Sea delivered by-~48 Transfers and loans, Department of Anthropology--..--..........-.-------64 Trask, Mrs. Blanche, Californian shells presented by ..........-...-...----29, 83 Treasury Department, original Francis life-saving car loaned to......-.-----72 special acknowledgments due to.-..-.........-------53 ire BrederickuWe,vcurator, Divisionsot/Mammals 22. 224-2220: 22 ree 105 head curator, Department of Biology.................-105 monograph on the whalebone whales completed by ---. 39, 92 papers.onscetaceans)| published by=-=a4452. -4-h-e eee = 39 polished by etss 2 case eel at os 50, 92
report on the Department of Biology for the year 1903-4 ON ep Se Seer ha I at ene ee ate em See Te 77
representative of Smithsonian Institution and National
Museum on United States Government Board for Louisiana, Purchase Mxposition: 2. 22---4222s26--ceseeea Down Liesan Gen OuCeSTOLpApersy Myers eee = eee ee ae 181 Tsuchida, T., collection of Japanese mammals purchased from _--.---------29,82 Wihlerpeaksspecimens ol rhymchotayloanedoto {sas 452 Sec ee oa as oe 42,89 Ulrich, E. O., collection, transferred by U. S. Geological Survey .--.-------31 papers completed by, in conjunction with R. 8. Bassler ..---44, 104 title and notice of joint paper by.-.---..----fh ets Sear ee 181, 182 Unger C. W., collection of fossil plants donated by....-.-..--.'.-----+.--232, 100 Upham, E. P., charge of cataloguing, division of prehistoric archeology. --75
Vaughan, T. Wayland, custodian Madreporarian Corals, Section of InvertebrateLHossil sts. ag sash see eee oem eae ae 106
= progress made by, in the study of madreporarian COTAISES Gas aed 5 Sophie ee ses yk A ee ee 42 HiGlesandinoGiceslon papersiOyy seseceee ee eee eee 182 Verner, Samuel P., collecting outfit supplied to .._.-..-.-:-....--.--.--+----46 Meri MpARahy Te peclmens StUpplledstOs a= ape se ere aes eee) tale eerieie one eret aor 43, 89 Vertebrate Paleontology, section of, accessions. ...--...-------------------32, 100 TOWtUMe MW OTK MMM =o eh eteeicie tee, oe 101 SSSA SPs SO gag A ee YE het Se er aN 47 Voorhees, Miss, collections in Department of Anthropology examined by .---. 39,71 Walcott, Charles D., honorary curator, Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology. 106 Wialkermbeak,. itt received uromss. tsa. ceseeisains sciscioess cs ceience esse 100 WialpolemHarat onoticerotsdeatin Oise) ae sees ccas oie ce macinias nae a eee 95 War Department, Bureau of Ordnance, collection of firearms deposited by. --28 objects of interest and value deposited by.-...-----------53, 65 Ward, Lester F., associate curator, Section of Paleobotany -----.-------.---106 Washington Biologists’ Field Club, collection of insects received trom.-...--30, 84 Waters: CrbaalectumerdelivencdeDyeean: soa ncs os nee 2 eee ne Soe fee asics seas 49 Watkins Je witrethe plosraphicalsketch Of 2. ...0....2-0.-c.s22-ce2bosses 56 MONSIREUGS 0) CERN ON pace oe aretSeeoas Seamer obenbecooC 56 Watkins, Thomas L., collections in applied geology studied by-......--.-.--44, 103
Wellauer, Emil, models of steamboat propellers purchased from -.....-----63

<<<Page: 930>>>

Page.
Wharton, J. R., specimens of smoky quartz donated by--.---Sea daooac 31, 99
Whelpley, H. M., material in Department of Anthropology studied by --..-39
White, Charles A., honorary associate in Paleontology....--..----------oneal OG
White, David, custodian of Paleozoic Plants, Section of Paleobotany --~----106
title andwnoticerol paper Dyess seer e sae. eee eee eee eae 182
Whitman, ©. O., collection of birds consulted Dy Soo ee eee eee pe 40
Wickersham, James, customs of Indians of Alaska investigated by ---.-----39, 71
Wilcox, Timothy E., fossil skull secured through the efforts of.....---.-Boe 32 Wild Flower Preservation Society of America, lecture delivered by Dr. C. E.
Waters undertherauspicesioiae see ates ote se ae ae eee eee 49
Walder Burt Ge specimensron mammal sisemttojee. sae sere eee eee ee 40
Williams, Gardner F., gift to the Division of Geology from..-...-.-..------31, 97 Williams, T. A., intention of, to transfer herbarium from George Washington
University to: the Museum’. 2.2.22 52h. 52222 eee 80
plants presented "byt. 56a. ach ocsecee ec eee Se ees 30, 80
Willis, Bailey, paper read by, at the Ninth International Geological Congress. 55
Wallis kichard collectineiouittsipphedttomese ses --eeese eee ee eee eae ee 46
Wilson, Charles Branch, siphonostoma sent to, for identification and report 89
specimens of parasitic copepods sent to..-.-..-----42,43
filevan Gd motice on paper lbyeeee er ees eees eee 182 Wilson, Thomas, archeological collection purchased belonging to the estate of
[ELOY SMe Et oe ie lie eee ey eh seamen, he eae i et ie arte See ea md Si A 8 26, 63 Wood, Miss Elvira, paper treating of the Middle Devonian crinoids, pre-
WaALGG Wyse Sao Saale Pain see alge pricey See re Se ta ee ee 44, 104 Woodbridge, Prof. S. Homer, services of, engaged to plan the mechanical
equipment of new Museum building” 9 222525; one eee eee 13
Wooden carved figure holding gong, description of -...--.-----------------744
Wooton, HO, specimen ot batypresented Dyere-sas2e 2562 aoe ae eee 29, 81
Work of the year, Department of Anthropology. ---222 S222. 2222 Aeon eee 61
Biology.c 25.2 0.26 oon eons ee ce ee eee (Mi
Geologyc.d ee sce ee eas sores eee eee 97
on the study series, Department of Biology ......-...-----------=2s= 86
Yale Museum, gift trom, through C.K” Beecher =) ---2-22---3--eee see 32, 99 Young, Miss Mary Virginia, appointed clerk in office of acting head curator,
Department. of “Anthropology... i. sc sc.cce estes) aoe eee eee eee 75 Zoological Museum, University of Copenhagen, Denmark, exchange received
JO) CORRE Seer Aes SALE Lae MS el SE a eae 30, 46, 83, 99
Specimens, number oad ditionsilO sees r =e eee see eee 28
total mum ber necerved:. 02.2 2-00.25. ce oe eee 79

<<<Page: 931>>>



<<<Page: 932>>>



<<<Page: 933>>>



<<<Page: 934>>>

01421 6840

<<<Page: 935>>>

at a
at dike sk

<<<Page: 936>>>

. { . 7 \ ‘ 1 , “ . eats ' \ ‘ ‘ Ae \ ‘ P "i 1 Yards . : { ae sy bhtey ie ee any 4 A * ; s s , Be ieake R reer a PEM rw i] 4 i 4 ya FAD 4 ee i ASA ee Ae A aitaptisy 2 t

<<<Page: 937>>>



<<<Page: 938>>>



<<<Page: 939>>>

